BLEU = 24.74 56.4/31.7/18.5/11.3 (BP = 1.000 ratio = 1.005 hyp_len = 111853 ref_len = 111282)
when you say she's a programmer , she did do some , but the real thing is to have said the future is going to be much , much more than this .	當你說她是程式設計師時 , 她做了一些事 , 但真正要說的 , 未來將會遠遠超過這一點 。
now , a hundred years later , this guy comes along , alan turing , and in 1936 , and invents the computer all over again .	一百年後 , 這個傢伙出現了 , alanturing , 1936年 , 又發明了電腦 。
now , of course , babbage's machine was entirely mechanical .	當然 , babbage的機器是完全機械性的 。
turing's machine was entirely theoretical .	圖靈的機器完全是理論上的 。
both of these guys were coming from a mathematical perspective , but turing told us something very important .	這兩位都是從數學的觀點來的 , 但圖靈告訴我們很重要的事 。
he laid down the mathematical foundations for computer science , and said , " it doesn't matter how you make a computer . "	他為電腦科學奠定了數學基礎 , 說: 「 不論如何製作電腦都不重要 。 」
it doesn't matter if your computer's mechanical , like babbage's was , or electronic , like computers are today , or perhaps in the future , cells , or , again , mechanical again , once we get into nanotechnology .	不管你的電腦是不是像babbage的 , 或是像現在的電腦 , 或是未來的電腦 , 還是細胞 , 還是機械性的 , 一旦我們進入了奈米科技 。
we could go back to babbage's machine and just make it tiny . all those things are computers .	我們可以回到babbage的機器 , 讓它變小 。 所有這些都是電腦 。
there is in a sense a computing essence .	有一種計算的本質 。
this is called the church–turing thesis .	這叫做教堂反洗禮論文 。
and so suddenly , you get this link where you say this thing babbage had built really was a computer .	突然間 , 你看到了這個連結 , 你說這個東西babbage真的是一台電腦 。
in fact , it was capable of doing everything we do today with computers , only really slowly .	事實上 , 它可以做到我們今天用電腦所做的一切 , 只是非常緩慢 。
to give you an idea of how slowly , it had about 1k of memory .	讓各位了解 , 它的速度有多慢 , 有1k的記憶力 。
it used punch cards , which were being fed in , and it ran about 10 , 000 times slower the first zx81 .	使用打孔卡片 , 輸入的卡片 , 輸入的速度大約是第一張zx81的一萬倍 。
it did have a ram pack .	牠的確有一群人 。
you could add on a lot of extra memory if you wanted to .	如果你想要的話 , 你可以加入很多額外的記憶體 。
so , where does that bring us today ?	所以 , 今天我們來到哪裡 ?
so there are plans .	這裡有計畫 。
over in swindon , the science museum archives , there are hundreds of plans and thousands of pages of notes written by charles babbage about this analytical engine .	在瑞典 , 科學博物館的檔案庫 , 有數百個計劃和數千頁的筆記 , 由查爾斯•巴伯奇寫的 , 關於這個分析引擎的筆記 。
one of those is a set of plans that we call plan 28 , and that is also the name of a charity that i started with doron swade , who was the curator of computing at the science museum , and also the person who drove the project to build a difference engine , and our plan is to build it .	其中有一組計劃 , 我們稱之為28計劃 , 這也是我和doronswade所創立的一個慈善機構的名字 , 他是科學博物館的策展人 , 也是推動這個計劃的人 , 來建造不一樣的引擎 , 我們的計劃就是建造它 。
here in south kensington , we will build the analytical engine .	在南肯辛頓 , 我們會建造分析引擎 。
the project has a number of parts to it .	這個專案有好幾個部分 。
one was the scanning of babbage's archive .	其中一個是掃描babbage的檔案
that's been done . the second is now the study of all of those plans to determine what to build .	這已經完成了 。 第二個是研究所有計劃的計畫 , 來決定要建造什麼 。
the third part is a computer simulation of that machine , and the last part is to physically build it at the science museum .	第三部分是模擬那台機器的電腦 , 最後一部分是要在科學博物館內實體建構它 。
when it's built , you'll finally be able to understand how a computer works , because rather than having a tiny chip in front of you , you've got to look at this humongous thing and say , " ah , i see the memory operating , i see the cpu operating , i hear it operating . i probably smell it operating . "	當它完成時 , 你會終於明白電腦是如何運作的 , 因為你面前的不是一個小晶片 , 而是看著這個巨大的東西 , 然後說: 「 啊 , 我看到記憶在運作 , 我看到cpu在運作 , 我聽見它運作 。 我聞到它的味道 。 」
but in between that we're going to do a simulation .	但在這之間 , 我們要做一個模擬 。
babbage himself wrote , he said , as soon as the analytical engine exists , it will surely guide the future course of science .	babbage自己寫信 , 他說 , 一旦分析引擎存在 , 它一定會引導未來的科學發展 。
of course , he never built it , because he was always fiddling with new plans , but when it did get built , of course , in the 1940s , everything changed .	當然 , 他從來沒有建造它 , 因為他總是在擺弄新計劃 , 但 , 在1940年代 , 一切都改變了 。
now , i'll just give you a little taste of what it looks like in motion with a video which shows just one part of the cpu mechanism working .	現在 , 我來給各位看看它在動作中看起來像什麼 , 影片中只有一部分的cpu機制運作 。
so this is just three sets of cogs , and it's going to add . this is the adding mechanism in action , so you imagine this gigantic machine .	這只是三組齒輪 , 加上這個 , 這是加上功能的機制 , 所以你可以想像這個巨大的機器 。
so , give me five years .	所以 , 給我五年 。
before the 2030s happen , we'll have it .	在2030年代之前 , 我們將擁有它 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝 。
in this imagefilled talk , yann arthusbertrand displays his three most recent projects on humanity and our habitat stunning aerial photographs in his series " the earth from above , " personal interviews from around the globe featured in his web project " 6 billion others , " and his soontobereleased movie , " home , " which documents human impact on the environment through breathtaking video .	在這個影像充斥的演說中 , 雅諾•亞伯特德展示了他最近的三件關於人性的作品 , 我們的棲息地在他的系列中拍攝了一系列的空中攝影像 , 《從地面上來》 , 來自全球各地的個人訪談 , 他的網絡專案《六十億人》 , 他的即將拍攝《家》 , 記錄了人類透過拍攝環境的影響 。
art , climate change , environment , film , future , humanity , media , photography	藝術、氣候變遷、環境、未來、人類、媒體、攝影 。
yann arthusbertrand captures fragile earth in wideangle	yannarthhusbertand在廣闊的角度捕捉到地球的脆弱
i have a big impact on the planet to travel here by plane .	我對地球有很大的影響 , 可以搭飛機來到這裡 。
i emitted , in the atmosphere , nine tons of co2 ; that is the weight of two elephants .	我在大氣中排放了九噸二氧化碳 ; 那是兩隻大象的重量 。
i came here to speak about ecology , and i emitted as much co2 as a frenchman in one year .	我來這裡談談生態生態學 , 一年內 , 我以法國人的身分 , 排出的二氧化碳量就跟法國人一樣多 。
so what do i have to do ?	所以 , 我該怎麼做 ?
i have to kill a frenchman when i come back at home ?	當我回到家時 , 我得要殺一個法國人 ?
i have to do my carbon offset in another way , like i do every time .	我必須用另一種方式來抵消碳排放 , 每次都要這樣做 。
in fact my work is to show our impact on our planet .	事實上 , 我的工作是向大家展示我們對地球的影響力 。
i'm going to show you some examples of the last pictures i've done in the last year .	我要給你們看一些我去年拍攝的最後幾張照片的例子 。
alberta sand oil , a lot of pollution .	亞伯達省的油 , 很多污染 。
you know the problem ; we don't want to believe what we know .	你知道問題在哪 , 我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
in alberta people work nonstop , 24 hours by seven to extract as much oil as they can .	在亞伯達省 , 人們在七小時內不停工作24小時 , 盡可能抽取石油 。
we know about the end of oil .	我們知道石油的終點 。
oil sand is not a longterm solution .	油砂不是一個長期的解決方案 。
but we use three times more oil than we find every year .	但是我們每年使用的油量比我們發現的還多三倍 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
coral reef in new caledonia .	新克里多尼亞的珊瑚礁 。
100 percent of the coral may be wiped out before 2050 because of global warming .	在2050年之前 , 百分之百的珊瑚可能因為全球暖化而被消滅 。
and you know how coral are very sensitive to temperature , and are very important for the biodiversity of the sea .	你知道珊瑚對溫度非常敏感 , 對海洋的生物多樣性非常重要 。
north pole . i've done this picture last summer .	北極 。 去年夏天我拍了這張照片 。
it was impossible to do this picture 15 years ago .	15年前 , 這張照片是不可能做到的 。
now there is a new way open between atlantic and pacific .	現在大西洋和太平洋之間有一種新的開放方式 。
the thickness of the arctic decreased more than 40 percent since 1960 .	自從1960年起 , 北極的厚度下降了超過40% 。
there is a new face of kilimanjaro without ice .	在沒有冰的情況下 , 吉利馬扎羅有一張新的面孔 。
it lost 80 percent of its ice .	它失去了80%的冰 。
according to scientists , in 100 years all the mountain glacier will be gone .	根據科學家的說法 , 一百年後 , 所有的山冰河都會消失 。
glaciers are very important for the life on earth .	對地球上的生命來說 , 冰河非常重要 。
like al gore told you , two billion people live on the water from the glacier of himalaya .	就像高爾告訴你 , 有二十億人住在水面上 , 來自喜馬拉雅冰河 。
return of fish men .	回到漁夫身上 。
one fifth of human kind depend on fish to live .	五分之一的人種取決於魚類生存 。
today now 70 percent of the fish stock are overexploited .	現今 , 70%的魚類存量被過度開發 。
according to fao , if we don't change our system of fishing the main sea resources will be gone in 2050 .	根據fao , 如果我們不改變我們捕魚主要海域的系統 , 2050年就會消失 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
the beautiful picture , by [unclear] in africa .	非洲的美麗照片 。
one human of six have not enough to eat in the world .	世界上六分之一的人沒有足夠的食物 。
one billion people have not enough to eat .	十億人的食物不夠 。
in africa , corn is one of the main foods in many places .	在非洲 , 玉米是許多地方主要的食物之一 。
here in america , 90 percent of the corn cultivated is used to feed animals or to do oil .	在美國 , 百分之九十的玉米耕種 , 被用來餵食動物或做石油 。
palm tree plantation in borneo .	婆羅洲的棕櫚樹種植園 。
every year we lose 50 thousand square miles in deforestation .	每年 , 我們損失了五萬平方英里的森林砍伐 。
refugee camp in darfur .	達佛的難民營 。
today we have 20 million refugees in the world .	現今 , 世界上有兩千萬難民 。
according to the u . n . , we speak about 250 million refugees in 2050 .	根據聯合國的數據 , 2050年 , 我們談到了兩億五千萬難民 。
i always show my pictures in the street .	我總是在街上展示我的照片 。
we have done already 100 exhibitions in the cities .	我們已經在城市裡做了100個展覽 。
but how to understand the world without the voice of people ?	但如果沒有人的聲音 , 要如何了解這個世界 ?
landscape was not enough .	景觀還不夠 。
it was obvious to me to do another work .	很明顯的 , 我還有另一個工作要做 。
i launched a project named six billion others .	我發起了一個計畫 , 叫做 「 60億人 」 。
i sent around the world six cameramen asking the same question , the same crucial question , about life .	我把六個攝影師送到世界各地 , 問了同樣的問題 , 同樣的重要的問題 , 關於人生的問題 。
we have done five thousand interviews .	我們已經做了五千次訪問 。
i'm going to show you this .	我要給你們看這個 。
man: the most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life ?	男人:人生中最美好的事 ?
it's when my dad told me , " here , i give you this girl as your fiance . "	那時我爸爸告訴我: 「 在這裡 , 我把這個女孩當作你的虛構人物 。 」
woman: love ? love is nice if you can have it .	女人:愛 ? 愛是很好的 , 如果你能愛的話 。
second man: romeo and juliet , sassi and panno , dodi and diana , heer and ranjha , this is love ! third man: my greatest fear is . . .	第二個男人:羅密歐和茱麗葉 , 薩西和潘諾 , 多迪 , 戴安娜 , 和蕾安娜 , 這是愛 ! 第三個男人:我最大的恐懼是......
woman: you're asking me a hard question .	女人:妳在問我一個很困難的問題 。
fourth man: i live happily because what else should i do ?	第四個男人:我過著幸福快樂的生活 , 因為我還該做些什麼 ?
fifth man: the first thing i remember . . .	第五個男人:我記得的第一件事......
fifth man: . . . from my childhood , fifth man: we were having fun , biking .	第五個男人:...從我童年開始 , 第五個男人:我們樂在腳踏車上 。
seventh man: we invented stories , we flew around the world , while remaining in our attic .	第七個男人:我們發明了故事 , 我們在世界各地飛來飛去 , 還在閣樓裡 。
eighth man: i had a big laugh today .	第八個男人:今天我大笑 。
ninth man: you see , family is . . . it's awful .	第九個男人:你看 , 家庭是......實在糟透了 。
10th man: in the word life , you have the life .	第十個男人:在生命中 , 你有生命 。
11th man: who am i ? isn't that the biggest question ?	第十一個男人:我是誰 ? 這是最大的問題嗎 ?
12th man: if i was to go back to iraq and speak to the people , i'd have to bow down and kiss their feet .	第十二個男人:如果我要回到伊拉克 , 和人民對話 , 我就得向下吹 , 親吻他們的腳 。
just as that woman tried to kiss my feet when we were taking her sons .	就如同那位女士試著親吻我的腳 , 我們帶她的兒子 。
and i feel humbled by their strength .	他們的力量讓我感到謙卑 。
and i will forever feel a need to make reparations to iraq .	我會永遠覺得需要對伊拉克作出回報 。
second woman: dad , mom , i grew up .	第二個女人:爸爸 , 媽 , 我長大 。
you shouldn't worry about me . dad doesn't need to go to work .	你不用擔心我 。 爸爸不用去上班 。
my family . . . what can i say ?	我的家人...我能說什麼 ?
at the moment , my family is very poor , my life here in shenzhen is just about showing myself that i can earn more and to let my parents stay and have something to live on .	目前 , 我的家人非常貧窮 , 在深圳這裡 , 我的人生就是要展現出我能賺更多的錢 , 讓我的父母能留下來 , 能繼續生活下去 。
i don't want them to spend their whole lives in poverty .	我不希望他們一生都在貧窮中度過 。
if someday i can achieve something , i would like to say thank you daddy and mommy .	如果有一天我能成就某樣東西 , 我想說謝謝你爸爸和媽媽 。
thank you for having fed me and raised me , and for making my life of today . thank you .	感謝你們的食物餵飽了我、養育了我 , 及讓我今天的生活更加美好 。 謝謝 。
13th man: after seven years now of being in a wheelchair , i've done more in life being in a chair than out of a chair .	第十三個男人:在坐輪椅七年後 , 我已經在椅子上做了比起椅子外出更多的人生 。
i still surf . i sail the world . i freedive .	我仍然衝浪 。 我航行這個世界 。 我自由 。
after many people said i couldn't do that .	經過很多人說我不能這樣做 。
and i think that comes from connecting with nature , connecting with the energy of life , because we're all disabled in some way on the planet spiritually , mentally or physically .	我認為這來自於與大自然的連結 , 與生命的能量產生連結 , 因為我們在地球上某種程度上 , 心理上或身體上都有缺陷 。
i got the easy part .	我得到了簡單的部分 。
14th man: let's say that you and me like each other .	第十四個男人:比方說 , 你和我都喜歡彼此 。
you come from elsewhere .	你來自其他地方 。
you don't know me . i don't know you .	你不認識我 , 我不認識你 。
we talk without lying .	我們不說謊 。
if i do like you , i give you one cow and many other things and we become friends .	如果我喜歡你 , 我會給你一頭牛和很多其他的東西 , 然後我們就變成了朋友 。
how can we make it all by ourselves ?	我們要如何靠自己做到這一切 ?
yab: you can also go to the website , answer respond to the questions also .	yab:你也可以上這個網站 , 回答問題的答案 。
now i am going to speak to you about my movie .	現在我要跟你們談談我的電影 。
for the last three years , i was shooting the earth for the movie .	過去三年 , 我拍攝了這部電影 。
the name of the movie is " home " " maison . "	這部電影的名字是《家園》 。
it is about the state of the planet .	重點是地球的現況 。
it's a fantastic story of life on the earth .	這是關於地球上生命的美妙故事 。
i'm very proud to show you the teaser .	我很驕傲地向你們展示這塊茶杯 。
video: this earth is four and a half billion years old .	影片:地球已經有45億歲了 。
these plants , several hundred million years old .	這些植物 , 已經有數億年歷史了 。
and we humans have been walking upright for only 200 thousand years .	而我們人類直立行走了20萬年 。
we've managed to adapt , and have conquered the whole planet .	我們成功地適應了 , 征服了整個地球 。
for generations , we've been raising our children , not unlike millions of other species living beside us .	數世代以來 , 我們一直在養育我們的孩子 , 和數百萬其他的物種住在我們身邊 。
for the past 30 years i've been closely watching the earth and its dwellers from high up in the sky .	過去30年來 , 我密切地看著地球和它的居民從高空上升起 。
our life is tied to the wellbeing of our planet .	我們的生活和地球的福祉息相關 。
we depend on water , forests , deserts , oceans .	我們依賴水、森林、沙漠、海洋 。
fishing , breeding , farming are still the world's foremost human occupations .	捕魚、繁殖、養殖 , 仍然是世界上最重要的人類職業 。
and what binds us together is far greater than what divides us .	把我們聯繫在一起的遠遠遠超過分裂我們的距離 。
we all share the same need for the earth's gifts the same wish to rise above ourselves , and become better .	我們對地球的天賦都有同樣的需求 , 希望能超越我們自己 , 變得更好 。
and yet we carry on raising walls to keep us apart .	然而 , 我們卻繼續築起牆壁 , 使我們彼此隔絕 。
today our greatest battle is to protect the natural offerings of our planet .	今天 , 我們最大的挑戰是要保護地球的天然資源 。
in less than 50 years we've altered it more thoroughly than in the entire history of mankind .	在不到50年的時間裡 , 我們已經徹底地改變了它 , 遠遠超過人類的歷史 。
half of the world's forests have vanished .	世界上有一半的森林已經消失 。
water resources are running low .	水資源的運行量很低 。
intensive farming is depleting soils .	密集的農業正在耗盡土壤 。
our energy sources are not sustainable .	我們的能源來源不是永續的 。
the climate is changing .	氣候正在改變 。
we are endangering ourselves .	我們正在危害自己 。
we're only trying to improve our lives .	我們只想改善我們的生活 。
but the wealth gaps are growing wider .	但 , 財富差距越來越大 。
we haven't yet understood that we're going at a much faster pace than the planet can sustain .	我們尚未明白 , 我們的行星能以比地球更快的速度持續下去 。
we know that solutions are available today .	我們知道 , 現今有解決方案 。
we all have the power to change this trend for the better .	我們都有能力改變這個趨勢 , 讓它變得更好 。
so what are we waiting for ?	所以 , 我們在等什麼 ?
yab: luc besson is the producer of the movie .	yab:lucbeson是電影的製作人 。
but it is not a normal movie .	但這並不是一般的電影 。
the film is going to be distributed free .	這部電影將免費發行 。
this film has no copyright .	這部電影沒有版權 。
on the five of june , the environment day , everybody can download the movie on internet .	在六月五日 , 環境日 , 每個人都可以在網路上下載這部電影 。
the film is given for free to the distributor for tv and theater to show it the fifth of june .	這部電影可以免費提供給電視和劇院的銷售人員 , 讓它在六月五日表演 。
there is no business on this movie .	這部電影裡沒有商業經營 。
it is also available for school , cities , ngos and you .	學校、城市、非政府組織和你都可以使用 。
we have to believe what we know .	我們必須相信我們所知道的 。
let me tell you something .	讓我告訴你一些事 。
it's too late to be pessimistic really too late .	太晚了 , 悲觀太晚了 , 真的太晚了 。
we have all a part of the solutions .	我們都有解決方案的一部分 。
to finish , i would like to welcome the 4 , 700th baby born since the beginning of this talk .	結束前 , 我想歡迎這場演講的開頭4 , 700個孩子出生 。
merci beaucoup . i love you .	梅西.波科普 , 我愛你
illustrious jugglers the raspyni brothers show off their uncanny balance , agility , coordination and willingness to sacrifice . now , if you'll just stand completely still . . .	出色的雜技表演者 , 拉斯普尼兄弟 , 展現出他們不可思議的平衡、敏捷度、協調性 , 以及願意犧牲的意願 。 如果你只能站著的話 ,
collaboration , entertainment , humor , physics	合作 , 娛樂 , 幽默 , 物理 。
the raspyni brothers juggle and jest	拉斯普尼兄弟們雜耍和傑斯特 。
dan holzman: please throw out the beanbag chairs . here we go .	丹•霍爾茲曼:請把懶骨頭丟出去 。 開始吧 。
barry friedman: there are all kinds of hightech chairs here today , but this is really , i think , when it reached its peak as far as ergonomics , comfort , design , flexibility . . .	今天有很多種高科技的椅子 , 但我認為 , 這真的達到了高科技的巔峰 , 非常舒適 , 設計 , 靈活性...
dh: now obviously , this is not something we do on our regular show ; it's something we just kind of learned for this , so we're going to try . but can we have some inspirational music for the beanbag chairs ?	很顯然 , 這不是我們平常在節目上做的 , 這是我們剛才學到的 , 所以我們要試試看 。 但是我們有一些靈感性的音樂 , 可以用來做豆包椅子嗎 ?
bf: nice show , daniel , nice show . you are the man !	很好的節目 , 丹尼爾 , 很棒的節目 。 你就是那個人 !
nice show . man , that was good !	很棒的節目 。 太棒了 !
bf: you know , sometimes when people do those , they go all the way down .	布:有時候當人們這麼做時 , 他們會一直往下走 。
you actually just did that .	其實你就是這麼做了 。
that's the kind of extra effort that's gotten us where we are today . . .	這種額外的努力使我們今天的處境變得更加美好
dh: all right , let's show them something special .	好 , 我們來給他們看一些特別的東西 。
bf: . . . without a macarthur grant .	布:沒有麥克阿瑟的補助金 。
yeah , look at this . you know , all kinds of different . . .	是的 , 看看這個 。 你知道 , 各式各樣的...
ted is about invention , let's be honest . right ? dh: yeah , it is .	ted是關於發明 , 老實說 , 對吧 ? dh:是的 。
bf: last night , michael moschen showed some juggling props he has invented and working on .	bf:昨晚 , michaelmoschen向他展示了一些他發明的雜技道具 , 並致力於此 。
right now , dan's going to show something he actually invented .	現在 , dan將會展示他真正發明的東西 。
dh: a type of juggling i actually invented , right after i saw another juggler do it .	其實我發明了一種雜耍 , 就在我看到另一位雜耍演員做完之後 。
dh: and this is a small excerpt from a longer piece .	這是一段很長的一段摘錄
folks , this is shaker cup juggling . it's not a showstopper but it certainly slows it down .	各位 , 這是粉碎的杯子雜耍 , 不是播放機 , 但它肯定會讓它慢下來 。
bf: oh yeah , it does .	噢 , 沒錯 。
bf: oh , daniel .	噢 , 丹尼爾 。
bf: ok . dh: oh ! all right .	好 , 很好 。
i'm now pushing my luck: i'm skipping right to six cups .	我現在要挑戰我的運氣:我正在滑雪六個杯子 。
in order to do six cups , i must have perfect control over three with my right hand .	為了要做六個杯子 , 我必須要完美的控制權 , 用我的右手 。
bf: also three with his left .	左邊還有三張 。
and now , all six cups . should i do it on the first try or should i miss once on purpose ?	現在 , 全部六個杯子 。 我應該先試看 , 還是應該故意錯過一次 ?
bf: first try ? once on purpose ?	先試試看 ? 再試一次 ?
dh: how about if i try first and then decide ?	先試試看然後決定 ?
bf: good idea . let's leave that . we'll leave that door open .	bf:好主意 。 讓我們離開這裡 。 我們打開那扇門 。
dh: he's looking at me .	他看著我 。
bf: that's all right , he does that . all right .	沒關係 , 他這樣做 , 沒關係 。
dh: oh ! it's time for richard's help .	噢 ! 該是理查的幫忙的時候了 。
oh , good . all right .	喔 , 很好 。 好 。
bf: you know , over the years , every year at the conference , it's kind of become a tradition for us to do something dangerous with richard . and we've always done something with the bullwhips in our act . it's funny , for years i did it with daniel holding balloons .	布:你知道 , 經過這幾年 , 每一年在研討會上 , 都會變成一種傳統 , 為richard做些危險的事 。 我們總是在表演中做點東西 。 很有趣 , 多年來 , 我都在daniel手上拿著氣球 。
and then we thought , " how stupid . "	然後我們想: 「 多愚蠢啊 。 」
dh: excuse me , could we work on the design of the microphone ?	不好意思 , 我們能設計麥克風嗎 ?
bf: i think that's the next session .	布:我想那是下一場演講 。
bf: yeah . and so we've actually found a way to incorporate richard in this .	布:是的 。 我們已經找到一個方法來將理查納入 。
he actually assumes more of the danger in this .	他真的認為在這方面的危險性更高 。
dh: please stand up , richard .	請站起來 , 理查 。
dh: now richard , please . . .	現在richard , 請...
bf: ok , sorry .	布:對不起 。
dh: jesus christ . richard , please stand in front of me .	耶穌基督 , 理查 , 請站在我面前 。
richard wurman: can i say something ?	理查沃爾曼:我能說點什麼嗎 ?
rw: in all past years i've rehearsed with them , the things that have happened to me i have no idea what's going to happen and that's the truth .	雷恩:在過去的這幾年裡 , 我一直在跟他們排練 , 那些發生在我身上的事 , 我不知道會發生什麼事 , 那就是真相 。
dh: all right , please stand here in front . . .	好 , 請站在前面......
god , i hate that . put your hands out like this , please .	天啊 , 我討厭這樣 。 請把你的手像這樣伸出去 。
bf: no , come stay up with him .	不 , 跟他在一起 。
dan used to actually hold them but now he's got you for protection .	以前丹曾握住他們 , 但現在卻得到了保護 。
it's kind of neat . ok .	很棒 。 好 。
dh: wow , you've been working out .	哇 , 你一直在想
bf: no , shut up !	布:不 , 閉嘴 !
having a little bit of richard time . that's nice , that's good .	有一點理查的時間 。 很不錯 , 很好 。
ok , here we go .	好 , 開始 。
have him hold your wrist so i can . . .	讓他握住你的手腕 , 這樣我就可以...
dh: please hold my wrist , will you . bf: yeah , hold this a minute .	請抓住我的手 , 抓住你 。 威廉:好 , 抓住這一分鐘 。
ok , hold on .	好 , 等等 。
bf: all those midyear phone calls are coming back to me now , richard .	布:所有那些年度打來的電話 , 現在都來找我 , 理查 。
dh: so richard , what were we on the list ? like 1 , 020 ?	理查德 , 我們在名單上是什麼 ? 像是1 , 020 ?
bf: i think we were just outside .	我想我們就在外面 。
dh: sorry . bf: having some bad flashbacks .	布:對不起 。 布:有一些不好的反饋 。
rw: do you want me to hold you or not ? dh: don't hold me that hard .	雷恩:你希望我支持你嗎 ? dh:不要這麼緊張 。
bf: here we go , i'm taking it .	來了 , 我接受了 。
dh: one more , one more .	再一個 。
bf: we've got one more we're going to do .	我們還有一個要做的 。
rw: do i get to hold them ?	雷恩:我能抓住他們嗎 ?
bf: you don't want to hold these , trust me .	布:你不想抓住這些 , 相信我 。
dh: could you spread your legs a little bit ?	可以把你的雙腳稍微張開一點嗎 ?
bf: gloria , you want to do it ? it's very cool .	布:gloria , 你想做嗎 ? 很酷 。
one more try . man , i don't want to get too close .	再試一次 。 老兄 , 我不想太靠近 。
could you just push that ?	你能把它推進去嗎 ?
dh: wow ! boy !	哇 !
bf: that's cool . i always wanted to try that .	很酷 。 我總是想試試看 。
dh: let's jump this way , though .	不過 , 咱們就這樣跳吧 。
now , we risked richard's life , it's only fair we risk our own lives .	我們冒著理查的生命風險 , 只有公平的風險 , 我們要冒著自己的生命 。
so to do that , i will juggle these three razorsharp sickles .	為了做到這一點 , 我會用這三種鋒利的疾病來做結合 。
and if that wasn't enough , and judging by your response , it's not . . .	如果這還不夠 , 根據你的回應來判斷 , 那不是......
dh: wow ! bf: hoping for a little more build .	哇 ! 希望能再多蓋一點 。
dh: true . barry . . .	沒錯 。 貝瑞......
bf: i'm going to run up behind him .	我要跑到他後面 。
dh: leap over my shoulder .	跳過我的肩膀 。
bf: up and over his shoulders .	在他肩膀上 , 和他肩膀上 。
dh: grab the blades in midair , land right there in a pool of blood . . .	掌握在半空中 , 降落在一池血液中 。
impossible , you say ?	你說 , 不可能 ?
bf: incredible , you say ?	真是太棒了 !
dh: why bother , you say ?	你說 , 何必麻煩 ?
bf: here we go .	來吧 。
dh: just do it juggler boys , you say ?	你說 , 做吧 , 雜耍男孩們 ,
bf: this guy , this guy invented air .	布:這個傢伙 , 這個傢伙發明空氣 。
dh: i think so , that's right .	我想是的 , 沒錯 。
bf: he invented the pencil .	他發明了鉛筆 。
dh: all right , we'll do this trick , but please remember it took us over 10 years to perfect .	好 , 我們會做這個把戲 , 但請記住 , 它花了我們10年才完美 。
bf: ten years to perfect , which you're about to see .	bf:十年後的完美 , 你們將看到的 。
dh: it's not that difficult , we just don't like to practice that much .	沒那麼難 , 我們只是不喜歡練習那麼多 。
bf: no , it's a hassle . traveling too much .	不 , 這是麻煩 。 太常旅行了 。
actually , we will take a second to prove this could be fake that the blades are indeed razorsharp .	事實上 , 我們會花一秒鐘來證明這可能是假的 , 那些刀片的確是鋒利的 。
dh: will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage ?	有人會把小型農場動物丟到台上嗎 ?
or a virgin for a sacrifice ?	還是犧牲的處女 ?
bf: no , she's got . . . farm animal .	不 , 她有......養殖動物 。
dh: do you have a small farm animal ?	你有一隻小農場動物嗎 ?
just trying to play the odds . all right , here we go .	只想播放機率 。 好 , 開始 。
bf: over the top , over the top .	在頂部 , 在頂部 。
dh: how you feeling , barry ? you feeling all right ?	大衛:你感覺如何 ? 大衛:好嗎 ?
bf: yeah , it's all right .	沒錯 , 沒關係 。
dh: do you feel everything's ok ? the atmosphere , the . . .	你覺得一切都好嗎 ? 大氣層 ,
bf: yeah , a little sketchy .	布:是啊 , 有點草圖 。
dh: everything up here's ok ?	上面的所有東西都可以嗎 ?
dh: then here we go .	然後 , 開始 。
bf: this one's a little . . . who's doing the lights ? could you point that a little more directly into my eyeballs ? is that possible ? i can still see a little .	布:這個有一點...有誰在開燈 ? 你能不能直接指向我的眼球 ? 有可能嗎 ? 我仍然能看到一點 。
dh: and turn up the intensity ; we're still pink in the middle .	把強度調高 , 中間還有粉紅色 。
we went too far .	我們走得太遠了 。
bf: yeah , it's too far . it's too much of a visual .	太遠了 , 太多視覺化了 。
the design of the body is a whole different thing .	身體的設計是完全不同的 。
dh: ready , barry ? bf: over the top .	準備好了嗎 ? bf:在頂部 。
dh: may we have our jumping music please ?	請放一下我們的跳躍音樂嗎 ?
may we have it a bit louder ?	我們能大聲點嗎 ?
bf: they're a good crew ! whoa !	哇 !
dh: whoa , sorry . all right .	哇 , 對不起 。 好的 。
bf: we're going on .	繼續下去 。
dh: all right , we'll try again .	好 , 我們再試一次 。
bf: all right ? oh my gosh . oh .	好嗎 ? 噢 ! 噢 !
dh: all right , here we go . sorry about that .	好了 , 來吧 。 抱歉 。
bf: i thought i had the hard part . ok .	布:我想我有困難的部分 。 好 。
dh: whenever you're ready .	只要你準備好了 。
bf: there we go !	來吧 !
all right , get up ! come on and dance ! dh: dance , come on . bf: come on and dance !	好吧 , 起來 ! 來吧 ! 舞蹈 ! 舞蹈 ! 來吧 ! 來吧 ! 和跳舞 !
somebody dance ! come on !	有人跳舞 ! 來吧 !
wow , wow , ok , stop .	哇 , 哇 , 好 , 停下來 。
weird , no one dances . we're two guys doing this .	奇怪的是 , 沒有人跳舞 。 我們是兩個傢伙 。
i think that's uncomfortable for everyone .	我覺得每個人都覺得不舒服 。
dh: the french judge . . .	法國裁判
bf: one more quick thing .	布:還有一個更快的事 。
dh: the french judge gives it a 5 . 2 .	法國法官給它5.2的 。
bf: well , you know . . .	嗯 , 你知道 ,
dh: there you go . . . bf: oh , yeah . another one coming in .	dh:好了 。 噢 , 好的 , 再一個進來 。
dh: tell them about our bio and stuff .	跟他們談談我們的生理和其他東西 。
bf: yeah . in our bio , some of you may have read that we've won two world juggling championships .	布:是的 , 在我們的生態中 , 有些人可能讀過我們贏得了兩次世界雜耍冠軍 。
and believe it or not , you don't win juggling champions for doing things with bullwhips or shaker cups .	信不信由你 , 你不會贏得雜耍冠軍 , 因為你用推鞭或搖晃杯子做事 。
we're going to show you right now an excerpt from a routine that we used to wipe out the other juggling team competition .	現在我們要給你們看一段我們習慣拆除其他雜耍團隊的比賽的片段 。
dh: i know what you're thinking: other juggling teams must really suck .	我知道你在想什麼:其他雜耍團隊一定很爛 。
bf: juggling's got a bad rap .	朱格林有不好的饒舌 。
dh: but wait , barry , there's still one more club lying there by my foot .	但 , 等等 , 貝瑞 , 還有一個俱樂部 , 躺在我的腳上 。
and look , it has a twin !	你看 , 它有雙胞胎 !
dh: there's still one more by my foot .	我還有一隻腳 。
what do you want me to do with it ?	你希望我能用它做什麼 ?
bf: richard you tell him , it's your last year .	理查你告訴他 , 這是你去年的事 。
dh: that's a pretty good setup , richard .	理查 , 這是很棒的安排 。
bf: yeah , it's a good setup . that's a big setup .	布:是的 , 這是個很好的安排 。 這是個很大的安排 。
dh: you can't get any better than that . all right . what i will do: i will use my pantherlike reflexes .	比這更好 。 好 。 接下來我要做的是:我會用像胰臟的反應 。
dh: i got that to reach down and grab that club in my grip of steel .	dh:我把它拿下來 , 抓住那根棒子 , 緊緊抓住我的鋼鐵 。
dh: i touched it , barry . that should be enough .	大衛:我觸碰了它 , 貝瑞 。 這樣就夠了 。
bf: it's progress , that's the thing .	布:這是進步 , 重點是 。
dh: how about that ? i'll do it again .	如何 ? 我再來一次 。
oh wait , it's on your side , barry .	喔 , 等等 , 它在你這邊 , 巴瑞 。
and it's awfully windy over there .	那裡的風很大 。
bf: it is , it's weird . you wouldn't think it would affect half the stage , but it is . it's weird .	真的很奇怪 , 你不會覺得它會影響到一半的舞台 , 但真的很奇怪 。
watch this: what i'm going to do is slide the seventh one onto my foot .	看這個:我要把第七個放到我的腳上 。
dh: wow ! what a great trick , barry !	哇 ! 真是太棒了 !
oh , look how it lies there .	喔 , 看看它怎麼躺在那裡 。
oh , barry , is there nothing you can't do ?	噢 , 貝瑞 , 你做不到什麼嗎 ?
you are my hero . you're my jim shea , jr .	你是我的英雄 。 你是我的jimshea , jr 。
bf: from my foot , i'll attempt to kick the seventh club . here we go .	從我的腳開始 , 我會試著把第七根棒子踢出去 。 開始吧 。
dh: where , barry ? where ? tell us , barry .	貝瑞:在哪裡 ? 在哪裡 ? 跟我們說貝瑞 。
[unclear] eagerly awaits your next syllable . what will it be ?	[不清楚]急切地等待你的下一個音節 。 它會是什麼 ?
what gem of knowledge ?	知識的魅力是什麼 ?
what pearl of wisdom ?	什麼是智慧的珍珠 ?
do you want to buy a vowel , barry ?	你想要買一個母音嗎 , 貝瑞 ?
is that your final answer ?	這是你最後的答案嗎 ?
bf: all right ! you have to turn off the tv from time to time .	布:好的 ! 你必須隨時關掉電視 。
dh: i do , i do .	沒錯 , 我有 。
bf: from my foot , the kick up in the seven .	從我的腳開始 , 七分之一的踢 。
dh: we will juggle seven .	7號雜耍 。
bf: from six to seven . dh: that's a world's record . bf: really ? dh: for us .	bf:從6到7 。 dh:這是世界紀錄 。 bf:真的 ? dh:對我們來說 。
dh: whenever you're ready there , big guy .	只要你準備好在那裡 , 一個大傢伙 。
put your tongue away , barry .	把你的舌頭拿走 , 貝瑞 。
bf: oh , oh , whoa .	噢 , 哇 !
dh: please , please stay seated . stay seated . thank you .	請坐好 , 請坐好 , 請坐好 。 謝謝 。
because now , to make this twice as difficult , we'll juggle the seven clubs back . . .	因為現在 , 要讓這兩次難度高一點 , 我們會把這七個棒子拋回去......
dh: . . . to back .	後面是......
bf: thank you , that's it .	布:謝謝你 , 就這樣 。
bf: thank you guys !	布:謝謝你們 !
dh: thank you very much !	非常謝謝大家 !
in this accessible talk from tedxboston , richard resnick shows how cheap and fast genome sequencing is about to turn health care upside down .	在tedxboston這場演講中 , 理查德•雷斯尼克指出 , 健康照護的成本和快速基因定序將會顛倒 。
dna , biotech , health care , science , technology	dna , 生物科技 , 健康照護 , 科學 , 科技 。
richard resnick: welcome to the genomic revolution	理查•雷斯尼克:歡迎來到基因革命 。
ladies and gentlemen , i present to you the human genome .	各位先生女士 , 我向你們展示人類基因組 。
chromosome one , top left .	染色體一 , 左上角 。
bottom right are the sex chromosomes .	右下角是性染色體 。
women have two copies of that big x chromosome ; men have the x and , of course , that small copy of the y .	女性有兩份大型x染色體的複製品 ; 男性有x , 當然 , 還有一份小小的y染色體 。
sorry boys , but it's just a tiny little thing that makes you different .	對不起男孩 , 但這只是個小東西 , 讓你與眾不同 。
so if you zoom in on this genome , then what you see , of course , is this double helix structure the code of life spelled out with these four biochemical letters , or we call them bases , right: a , c , g and t .	如果你把這個基因組放大 , 你會看到這個雙螺旋結構 , 生命的編碼是用這四個生物化學字母拼出來的 , 或者我們稱之為基礎 , 正確的:a , g和t 。
how many are there in the human genome ? three billion .	人類基因組中有多少 ? 30億 。
is that a big number ?	這是很大的數字嗎 ?
well , everybody can throw around big numbers .	大家都可以隨意丟出很大的數字 。
but in fact , if i were to place one base on each pixel of this 1280 by 800 resolution screen , we would need 3 , 000 screens to take a look at the genome .	但 , 事實上 , 如果我把這1280到800個解析度螢幕上的每一個像素都放在一個基礎上 , 我們會需要3000個螢幕來觀察基因組 。
so it's really quite big .	所以它真的很大 。
and perhaps because of its size , a group of people all , by the way , with y chromosomes decided they would want to sequence it .	也許是因為它的大小 , 順道一提 , 有一群人 , 染色體決定要把染色體排序 。
and so 15 years , actually , and about four billion dollars later , the genome was sequenced and published .	事實上 , 15年後 , 大約40億美元後 , 基因組被定序並發表 。
in 2003 , the final version was published , and they keep working on it .	在2003年 , 最終的版本被出版了 , 他們繼續研究它 。
that was all done on a machine that looks like this .	這些都是在像這樣的機器上完成的 。
it costs about a dollar for each base a very slow way of doing it .	每一鹼基都要花一塊美金 , 非常慢的做法 。
well folks , i'm here to tell you that the world has completely changed and none of you know about it .	各位 , 我來這裡告訴各位 , 世界已經完全改變了 , 沒有人知道 。
so now what we do is we take a genome , we make maybe 50 copies of it , we cut all those copies up into little 50base reads , and then we sequence them , massively parallel .	現在我們拿一個基因組 , 複製50個基因組 , 把這些dna切成50個鹼基讀取器 , 然後我們將它們排序 , 大量平行 。
and then we bring that into software , and we reassemble it and we tell you what the story is .	然後我們把這些帶到軟體上 , 再組合起來 , 再告訴你這個故事是什麼 。
and so just to give you a picture of what this looks like , the human genome project: 3 gigabases , right .	為了讓各位了解一下這是什麼樣子 , 人類的基因組計畫:3gbas , 沒錯 。
one run on one of these machines: 200 gigabases in a week .	其中一台機器運行了:一週兩百gbabas
and that 200 is going to change to 600 this summer , and there's no sign of this pace slowing .	今年夏天 , 兩百人將會改變到六百人的速度 , 而這個速度的緩慢沒有任何跡象 。
so the price of a base , to sequence a base , has fallen 100 million times .	所以 , 一個基礎的價格 , 要對一個基礎的排序做定序 , 已經下降了一億倍 。
that's the equivalent of you filling up your car with gas in 1998 , waiting until 2011 , and now you can drive to jupiter and back twice .	這等同於你在1998年裝滿油氣的車 , 等到2011年 , 現在你可以開車到木星和兩次 。
world population , pc placements , the archive of all the medical literature , moore's law , the old way of sequencing , and here's all the new stuff .	世界人口、pc配置、所有醫學文獻的檔案、摩爾定律、舊式的定序方式 , 全都是新東西 。
guys , this is a log scale ; you don't typically see lines that go up like that .	各位 , 這是木製的尺度 , 你通常不會看到像這樣上升的線條 。
so the worldwide capacity to sequence human genomes is something like 50 , 000 to 100 , 000 human genomes this year .	全球人類基因組定序的能力今年大約是五萬到十萬個人類基因組 。
and we know this based on the machines that are being placed .	我們根據已被分配的機器 , 知道這一點 。
this is expected to double , triple or maybe quadruple year over year for the foreseeable future .	預期在可預見的未來 , 年復一年會加倍、三倍或四倍 。
in fact , there's one lab in particular that represents 20 percent of all that capacity .	事實上 , 有一個特別的實驗室 , 代表了百分之二十的容量 。
it's called the beijing genomics institute .	叫做北京基因組學院 。
the chinese are absolutely winning this race to the new moon , by the way .	順道一提 , 中國在為新月球贏得比賽 。
what does this mean for medicine ?	對醫學而言 , 這意味著什麼 ?
so a woman is age 37 .	女性37歲 。
she presents with stage 2 estrogen receptorpositive breast cancer .	她用第二期的雌激素受體乳腺癌來做示範 。
she is treated with surgery , chemotherapy and radiation .	她接受手術、化療和放射線治療 。
two years later , she comes back with stage three c ovarian cancer .	兩年後 , 她得了第三階段卵巢癌 。
unfortunately , treated again with surgery and chemotherapy .	不幸的是 , 再次用手術和化療來治療 。
she comes back three years later at age 42 with more ovarian cancer , more chemotherapy .	三年後 , 她42歲時有更多卵巢癌 , 更多化療 。
six months later , she comes back with acute myeloid leukemia .	六個月後 , 她帶著嚴重的髓鞘白血病回來 。
she goes into respiratory failure and dies eight days later .	她進入呼吸衰竭 , 八天後死去 。
so first , the way in which this woman was treated , in as little as 10 years , will look like bloodletting .	首先 , 這位女士在短短10年內被對待的方式 , 看起來就像在血液中 。
and it's because of people like my colleague , rick wilson , at the genome institute at washington university , who decided to take a look at this woman postmortem .	那是因為像我同事rickwilson , 在華盛頓大學的基因組研究所 , 她決定去看這位女士的後遺症 。
and he sequenced , he took skin cells , healthy skin , and cancerous bone marrow , and he sequenced the whole genomes of both of them in a couple of weeks , no big deal .	他的基因定序 , 他用皮膚細胞 , 健康的皮膚 , 和癌症的骨髓 , 在幾週內 , 他對兩組基因組進行了基因組測序 , 沒什麼大不了的 。
and then he compared those two genomes in software , and what he found , among other things , was a deletion , a 2 , 000base deletion across three billion bases in a particular gene called tp53 .	然後他把這兩組基因組在軟體中比較 , 他發現 , 除了其他東西之外 , 有一個兩千個鹼基在一個叫做tp53的基因中 , 有一個兩千個鹼基 。
if you have this deleterious mutation in this gene , you're 90 percent likely to get cancer in your life .	如果你的基因中有這種特性突變 , 你一生中有90%的可能性會罹患癌症 。
so unfortunately , this doesn't help this woman , but it does have severe , profound if you will , implications to her family .	不幸的是 , 這對這位女士沒什麼幫助 , 但對她的家人來說 , 它的確有著很嚴重、很深刻的影響 。
i mean , if they have the same mutation , and they get this genetic test , and they understand it , then they can go and get regular screens , and they can catch cancer early and potentially live a significantly longer life .	我的意思是 , 如果他們有相同的突變 , 他們得到了這個基因檢測 , 他們就可以去做常規的篩檢 , 他們可以早期發現癌症 , 而且很有可能活得更久 。
let me introduce you now to the beery twins , diagnosed with cerebral palsy at the age of two .	讓我向各位介紹beery雙胞胎 , 在兩歲時被診斷出腦性麻痺 。
their mom is a very brave woman who didn't believe that the symptoms weren't matching up , and through some heroic efforts and a lot of internet searching , she was able to convince the medical community that , in fact , they had something else .	他們的母親是一位非常勇敢的女性 , 她不相信這些症狀並不相符 , 透過一些英勇的努力 , 和很多網路搜尋 , 她能夠說服醫界 , 事實上 , 他們還有其他的東西 。
what they had was doparesponsive dystonia .	他們所擁有的是雙向的肌張力不全症 。
and so they were given ldopa , and their symptoms did improve , but they weren't totally asymptomatic .	所以他們得到了左旋多巴 , 他們的症狀確實有改善 , 但是他們沒有完全的症狀 。
turns out the gentleman in this picture is a guy named joe beery , who was lucky enough to be the cio of a company called life technologies .	結果 , 這張照片中的男士 , 名叫喬•貝耶 , 他很幸運能成為一家名為 「 生命科技 」 的公司的首席公司 。
they're one of the two companies that makes these massive whole genome sequencing tools .	他們是製造大量基因組定序工具的兩家公司之一 。
and so what he did was he got his kids sequenced .	他的做法是幫他的孩子做定序 。
and what they found was a series of mutations in a gene called spr , which is responsible for producing serotonin , among other things .	他們在一個叫做spr的基因中發現一系列突變 , 負責產生血清素的基因 。
so on top of ldopa , they gave these kids a serotonin precursor drug , and they're effectively normal now .	除此之外 , 他們給這些孩子們一種血清素先驅藥物 , 現在的確是正常的 。
guys , this would never have happened without whole genome sequencing .	各位 , 如果沒有完整的基因定序 , 不可能發生這種事 。
and at the time this was a few years ago it cost $100 , 000 .	幾年前的成本是十萬美元 。
today it's $10 , 000 . next year it's $1 , 000 .	現在是一萬美金 。 明年是一千美金 。
the year after it's $100 , give or take a year .	價格是100美元 , 或一年後 。
that's how fast this is moving .	這就是移動速度的快 。
so here's little nick likes batman and squirt guns .	這裡有個小nick , 喜歡蝙蝠俠和松鼠的槍 。
and it turns out nick shows up at the children's hospital with this distended belly like a famine victim .	尼克出現在兒童醫院 , 患有這種異常的腹部 , 像個饑荒的受害者 。
and it's not that he's not eating , it's that when he eats , his intestine basically opens up and feces spill out into his gut .	並不是說他沒有吃東西 , 而是當他吃東西時 , 他的腸子基本上會向外打開 , 然後從腸子裡溢出 。
so a hundred surgeries later , he looks at his mom and says , " mom , please pray for me . i'm in so much pain . "	一百個手術後 , 他看著他的媽媽 , 說: 「 媽 , 請為我禱告 。 我非常痛苦 。 」
his pediatrician happens to have a background in clinical genetics and he has no idea what's going on , but he says , " let's get this kid's genome sequenced . "	他的兒科醫生剛好有臨床遺傳學的背景 , 他不知道發生了什麼事 , 但是他說: 「 我們來讓這個孩子的基因組定序 。 」
and what they find is a singlepoint mutation in a gene responsible for controlling programmed cell death .	他們發現一個基因突變 , 負責控制細胞死亡的基因 。
so the theory is that he's having some immunological reaction to what's going on to the food essentially , and that's a natural reaction , which causes some programmed cell death .	理論上 , 他對食物本質上發生的反應是免疫的 , 這是自然的反應 , 導致細胞死亡 。
but the gene that regulates that down is broken .	但是管制下面的基因是壞掉的 。
and so this informs , among other things , of course , a treatment for bone marrow transplant , which he undertakes .	這就說明了 , 除了其他事情 , 當然 , 治療骨髓移植的治療之外 , 他還在進行中 。
and after nine months of grueling recovery , he's now eating steak with a1 sauce .	經過九個月的辛苦復原 , 他現在正在吃牛排 , 加上一份醬料 。
the prospect of using the genome as a universal diagnostic is upon us today .	今天 , 用基因組來做全面性的診斷 , 已經在我們面前了 。
today , it's here .	今天 , 它在這裡 。
and what it means for all of us is that everybody in this room could live an extra five , 10 , 20 years just because of this one thing .	我們所有人的意思是 , 在這房間裡的每個人 , 都可以多活五年、十年、二十年 , 只因為這一件事 。
which is a fantastic story , unless you think about humanity's footprint on the planet and our ability to keep up food production .	這是個很棒的故事 , 除非你想想人類在這個星球上的足跡 , 以及我們能持續生產糧食的能力 。
so it turns out that the very same technology is also being used to grow new lines of corn , wheat , soybean and other crops that are highly tolerant of drought , of flood , of pests and pesticides .	結果發現 , 同樣的技術也被用來種植新一代的玉米、小麥、黃豆 , 和其他農作物 , 非常包容乾旱、洪水、害蟲和殺蟲劑 。
now look , as long as we continue to increase the population , we're going to have to continue to grow and eat genetically modified foods , and that's the only position that i'll take today .	現在 , 只要我們繼續增加人口 , 我們就得繼續種植和吃基因改造的食物 , 這是我今天要講的唯一位置 。
unless there's anybody in the audience that would like to volunteer to stop eating ?	除非在座有誰想自願停止吃東西 ?
none , not one .	沒有 。 沒有 。
this is a typewriter , a staple of every desktop for decades .	這是個打字機 , 數十年來 , 每個桌上型電腦的主流 。
and in fact , the typewriter was essentially deleted by this thing .	事實上 , 打字機基本上已經被這個東西淘汰了 。
and then more general versions of word processors came about .	接著 , 更普遍的文字處理器出現了 。
but ultimately , it was a disruption on top of a disruption .	但最終 , 這是顛覆在顛覆之上 。
it was bob metcalfe inventing the ethernet and the connection of all these computers that fundamentally changed everything .	bobmetcafe發明了ethernet和所有這些電腦的連結從根本上改變了一切
and suddenly we had netscape , and we had yahoo and we had , indeed , the entire dotcom bubble .	突然間我們有了netscape , 我們有了yahoo , 我們有了整個網路泡沫 。
not to worry though , that was quickly rescued by the ipod , facebook and , indeed , angry birds .	不用擔心 , 很快就被ipod、facebook和憤怒的禽鳥拯救了 。
look , this is where we are today .	看 , 這就是我們現今的狀況 。
this is the genomic revolution today . this is where we are .	這就是今天的基因革命 。 這就是我們現在的處境 。
so what i'd like you to consider is: what does it mean when these dots don't represent the individual bases of your genome , but they connect to genomes all across the planet ?	所以 , 我想請各位思考的是:當這些點並不代表你基因組的個別基礎 , 它們會連結到整個地球的基因組 , 是什麼意思 ?
so i just recently had to buy life insurance .	我最近只好買了生命保險 。
and i was required to answer: a . i have never had a genetic test , b . i've had one , here you go , and c . i've had one and i'm not telling .	我被要求回答:a , 我從來沒有做過基因測試 , b.我有過基因測試 , 來吧 , c.我有過基因測試 , 我沒有告訴別人 。
thankfully , i was able to answer a , and i say that honestly in case my life insurance agent is listening .	謝天謝地 , 我得以回答 , 我老實說 , 萬一我的保險經紀人都在傾聽 。
but what would have happened if i had said c ?	但如果我說c , 會發生什麼事 ?
consumer applications for genomics , they will flourish .	消費者為基因組學申請應用 , 他們會蓬勃發展 。
do you want to see whether you're genetically compatible with your girlfriend ? sure .	你想知道你和你的女朋友基因上是否相符嗎 ? 當然 。
dna sequencing on your iphone ? there's an app for that .	在你的iphone上dna定序 ? 有一個應用程式 。
personalized genomic massage anyone ?	有人要按摩個人基因組嗎 ?
there's already a lab today that tests for allele 334 of the avpr1 gene , the socalled cheating gene .	今天已經有一個實驗室在測試avpr1基因中的allele334 , 也就是所謂的欺騙基因 。
so anybody who's here today with your significant other , just turn over to them and swab their mouth , send it to the lab and you'll know for sure .	所以 , 今天在場的任何人 , 和你有重要的對象在一起 , 轉過身來 , 替他們取代他們的嘴巴 , 把它送到實驗室 , 然後你就會知道 。
do you really want to elect a president whose genome suggests cardiomyopathy ?	你真的想選出一位基因組的總統 , 建議心臟病變嗎 ?
now think of it , it's 2016 and the leading candidate releases not only her four years of back tax returns , but also her personal genome .	想想看 , 2016年 , 最頂尖的候選人不僅釋出了她四年的退稅報酬 , 還有她的個人基因組 。
and it looks really good .	看起來非常好 。
and then she challenges all of her competitors to do the same .	接著 , 她要求所有的競爭者都做同樣的事 。
do you think that's not going to happen ?	你認為這不會發生嗎 ?
do you think it would have helped john mccain ?	你覺得這會幫助約翰麥肯嗎 ?
how many people in the audience have the last name resnick like me ? raise your hand .	在座有多少人像我一樣有最後的resnick ? 請舉手 。
typically , there's one or two .	通常會有一兩種 。
so my father's father was one of 10 resnick brothers .	我父親的父親是十個雷斯尼克兄弟中的一個 。
they all hated each other .	他們都討厭彼此 。
and they all moved to different parts of the planet .	他們全都搬到地球上不同的角落 。
so it's likely that i'm related to every resnick that i ever meet , but i don't know .	所以很有可能我和每一個我遇見的resnick有關 , 但我不知道 。
but imagine if my genome were deidentified , sitting in software , and a third cousin's genome was also sitting there , and there was software that could compare these two and make these associations .	但 , 想像一下 , 如果我的基因被辨識出來 , 坐在軟體裡 , 第三個表兄弟的基因組也在那兒 , 還有軟體可以比較這兩組基因 , 並做出這些關聯 。
not hard to imagine . my company has software that does this right now .	不難想像 , 我的公司有這樣的軟體 。
and so imagine one more thing: that that software is able to ask both parties for mutual consents , " would you be willing to meet your third cousin ? "	所以 , 想像一下 , 還有一點:這個軟體能夠向雙方尋求雙方同意 , 「 你願意和第三個表兄弟見面嗎 ? 」
and if we both say yes , voila ! welcome to chromosomally linkedin .	如果我們都說 「 是 」 , 瞧 ! 歡迎來到染色體連結處 。
now this is probably a good thing , right ?	這可能是件好事 , 對吧 ?
you have bigger clan gatherings and so on .	你有更大的集會等等 。
but maybe it's a bad thing as well .	但也可能是件壞事 。
how many fathers in the room ? raise your hands .	房間裡有多少父親 ? 請舉手 。
okay , so experts think that one to three percent of you are not actually the father of your child .	好 , 所以專家們認為 , 在座有1%到3%的人並不是你孩子的父親 。
look these genomes , these 23 chromosomes , they don't in any way represent the quality of our relationships or the nature of our society at least not yet .	看看這些基因組 , 這23個染色體 , 它們並不能代表我們關係的品質 , 或我們社會的本質 , 至少還沒有 。
and like any new technology , it's really in humanity's hands to wield it for the betterment of mankind , or not .	和任何新科技一樣 , 真的是人類的手可以為人類的更好 , 或不可以 。
and so i urge you all to wake up and to tune in and to influence the genomic revolution that's happening all around you .	所以 , 我鼓勵大家醒來 , 開始調整 , 並且影響到你們身邊正在發生的基因革命 。
daniel kraft demos his marrow miner a new device that quickly harvests lifesaving bone marrow with minimal pain to the donor . he emphasizes that the adult stem cells found in bone marrow can be used to treat many terminal conditions , from parkinson's to heart disease .	丹尼爾克拉夫示範了他的骨髓採取的新裝置 , 很快地 , 能將救命的骨髓移植到捐贈者身上 。 他強調 , 在骨髓中發現的成體幹細胞可以被用來治療許多末期疾病 , 從帕金森氏症到心臟病 。
biology , biotech , health , health care , medicine , science , technology	生物學、生物科技、健康照護、醫學、科學、科技等 。
daniel kraft invents a better way to harvest bone marrow	danielkraft發明了一種更好的方法來收集骨髓 。
so i am a pediatric cancer doctor and stemcell researcher at stanford university where my clinical focus has been bone marrow transplantation .	我是史丹佛大學的兒科醫生和幹細胞研究員 , 我的臨床診斷專注於骨髓移植 。
now , inspired by jill bolte taylor last year , i didn't bring a human brain , but i did bring a liter of bone marrow .	去年jillboltetaylor的靈感來源 , 我沒有帶一個人的大腦 , 但我帶了一公升的骨髓 。
and bone marrow is actually what we use to save the lives of tens of thousands of patients , most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphoma and some other diseases .	我們用骨髓 , 來拯救數萬名病人的性命 , 他們大多已有較高的惡性腫瘤 , 如白血病、淋巴瘤 , 和其他一些疾病 。
so , a few years ago , i'm doing my transplant fellowship at stanford .	幾年前 , 我在史丹佛做移植手術 。
i'm in the operating room . we have bob here , who is a volunteer donor .	我在手術室裡 , 這裡有bob , 他是志願捐贈者 。
we're sending his marrow across the country to save the life of a child with leukemia .	我們把他的骨髓送到全國各地 , 拯救一個患白血病的孩子 。
so actually how do we harvest this bone marrow ?	所以 , 我們要如何收集這塊骨髓 ?
well we have a whole o . r . team , general anesthesia , nurses , and another doctor across from me .	我們有一整個o.r.研發團隊 , 麻醉醫師 , 護士 , 還有另一位醫生從我身邊走過 。
bob's on the table , and we take this sort of small needle , you know , not too big .	包柏在桌上 , 我們拿著這根小針 , 你知道的 , 不太大 。
and the way we do this is we basically place this through the soft tissue , and kind of punch it into the hard bone , into the tuchus that's a technical term and aspirate about 10 mls of bone marrow out , each time , with a syringe .	基本上 , 我們的方法是把它放到軟組織中 , 把它打入硬骨中 , 進入tuchus , 每次用針筒 , 大約十公升的骨髓 。
and hand it off to the nurse . she squirts it into a tin .	把牠交給護士 , 牠將牠射入一個鐵桶裡 。
hands it back to me . and we do that again and again .	把它傳回給我 。 我們一而再而三地這樣做 。
about 200 times usually .	通常是兩百次 。
and by the end of this my arm is sore , i've got a callus on my hand , let alone bob , whose rear end looks something more like this , like swiss cheese .	在我的手臂尾聲時 , 我手上接到一通電話 , 更不用說bob , 他的屁股看起來更像這樣 , 像是瑞士起士 。
so i'm thinking , you know , this procedure hasn't changed in about 40 years .	所以我在想 , 大概40年來 , 這種程序沒有改變 。
and there is probably a better way to do this .	或許有更好的方法可以做到 。
so i thought of a minimally invasive approach , and a new device that we call the marrow miner .	所以我想出了一個最低侵入性的方法 , 一個我們稱之為 「 骨髓採礦者 」 的新裝置 。
and the marrow miner , the way it works is shown here .	而骨髓採礦者 , 這裡展示的原理 。
our standard seethrough patient .	我們的標準透明病人 。
instead of entering the bone dozens of times , we enter just once , into the front of the hip or the back of the hip .	與其進入骨頭數十次 , 我們只需要進入骨頭前面或後面 。
and we have a flexible , powered catheter with a special wire loop tip that stays inside the crunchy part of the marrow and follows the contours of the hip , as it moves around .	我們有彈性、有力的導管 , 帶著特殊的電線管 , 會留在骨髓的中間 , 跟著臀部的輪廓移動 。
so it enables you to very rapidly aspirate , or suck out , rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole .	所以 , 它能讓你很快地激發靈感 , 或說 , 非常快地 , 豐富的骨髓穿過一個洞 。
we can do multiple passes through that same entry .	我們可以通過同一個入口多次 。
and , so , very quickly , bob can just get one puncture , local anesthesia , and do this harvest as an outpatient .	所以 , 很快地 , 鮑勃只能拿到一個穿刺 , 局部麻醉 , 然後把這個當成是門診病人 。
so i did a few prototypes . i got a small little grant at stanford .	所以我做了一些原型 , 在史丹佛得到了一些小的補助金 。
and played around with this a little bit .	隨便玩一下這個
and our team members developed this technology .	我們的團隊成員開發了這項技術 。
and eventually we got two large animals , and pig studies .	最終我們有兩種大型動物和豬的研究 。
and we found , to our surprise , that we not only got bone marrow out , but we got 10 times the stem cell activity in the marrow from the marrow miner , compared to the normal device .	我們發現 , 出乎我們的意料 , 我們不只得到骨髓 , 還得到骨髓幹細胞活動的十倍 , 相較於正常的裝置 。
this device was just fda approved in the last year .	這個裝置在去年才被美國食品及藥物管理局批准 。
here is a live patient . you can see it following the flexible curves around .	這是個活生生的病人 , 你可以看到它沿著柔軟的曲線移動 。
there will be two passes here , in the same patient , from the same hole .	在同一個病人 , 同一個洞 , 會有兩次通過 。
this was done under local anesthesia , as an outpatient .	這是在局部麻醉劑 , 門診病人的做法 。
and we got , again , about three to six times more stem cells than the standard approach done on the same patient .	同樣的病患 , 我們的幹細胞數量比標準方法的幹細胞數量還要多三到六倍 。
so why should you care ? bone marrow is a very rich source of adult stem cells .	所以 , 你為什麼要在乎 ? 骨髓是成人幹細胞的豐富來源 。
you all know about embryonic stem cells .	你們都知道胚胎幹細胞 。
they've got great potential but haven't yet entered clinical trials .	他們有很大的潛力 , 但還沒有進入臨床試驗 。
adult stem cells are throughout our body , including the bloodforming stem cells in our bone marrow , which we've been using as a form of stemcell therapy for over 40 years .	成人幹細胞遍佈我們全身 , 包括骨髓中血液變形的幹細胞 , 我們已經用這種幹細胞療法 , 已經超過四十年了 。
in the last decade there's been an explosion of use of bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient's other diseases such as heart disease , vascular disease , orthopedics , tissue engineering , even in neurology to treat parkinson's and diabetes .	近十年來 , 使用骨髓幹細胞的爆炸治療患者的其他疾病 , 如心臟病、血管疾病、骨科醫學、組織工程 , 甚至治療帕金森氏症和糖尿病 。
we've just come out , we're commercializing , this year , generation 2 . 0 of the marrow miner .	我們才剛出櫃 , 今年我們在商業化 , 第2.0代的骨髓礦工 。
the hope is that this gets more stem cells out , which translates to better outcomes .	希望會得到更多幹細胞 , 翻譯成更好的結果 。
it may encourage more people to sign up to be potential livesaving bone marrow donors .	可能會鼓勵更多人登記成為潛在的骨髓捐贈者 。
it may even enable you to bank your own marrow stem cells , when you're younger and healthier , to use in the future should you need it .	甚至可能讓你把你自己的骨髓幹細胞給銀行 , 當你年紀愈小 , 愈健康時 , 用在未來應該要它 。
and ultimately and here's a picture of our bone marrow transplant survivors , who come together for a reunion each year at stanford .	最終 , 這是我們骨髓移植倖存者的照片 , 他們每年都會在史丹佛聚會 。
hopefully this technology will let us have more of these survivors in the future .	希望這項技術能讓我們未來有更多這些倖存者 。
physicist and surfer garrett lisi presents a controversial new model of the universe that just maybe answers all the big questions . if nothing else , it's the most beautiful 8dimensional model of elementary particles and forces you've ever seen .	物理學家和衝浪者麗西提出了一個關於宇宙的有爭議性的新模型 , 它也許能回答所有的大問題 。 如果沒有的話 , 它是你所見過最美麗的八度空間模型 。
physics , science , technology	物理、科學、科技 。
garrett lisi on his theory of everything	garretlisi提出了他對所有事物的理論
whoa , dude . check out those killer equations . sweet .	哇 , 老兄 , 看看那些致命的方程式 。 甜心 。
actually , for the next 18 minutes i'm going to do the best i can to describe the beauty of particle physics without equations .	事實上 , 接下來的18分鐘 , 我要盡我所能地描述粒子物理學的美麗 , 不用算式 。
it turns out there's a lot we can learn from coral .	事實證明 , 我們能從珊瑚身上學到很多東西 。
coral is a very beautiful and unusual animal .	珊瑚是非常美麗且非比尋常的動物 。
each coral head consists of thousand of individual polyps .	每個珊瑚的頭部有上千個獨立的珊瑚 。
these polyps are continually budding and branching into genetically identical neighbors .	這些珊瑚不斷地繁殖和分成基因相同的鄰居 。
if we imagine this to be a hyperintelligent coral , we can single out an individual and ask him a reasonable question .	如果我們想像這是一個高智能的珊瑚 , 我們可以從一個個體中取出並問他一個合理的問題 。
we can ask how exactly he got to be in this particular location compared to his neighbors if it was just chance , or destiny , or what ?	我們可以問他在這個特定的地點與他的鄰居相比 , 假如只是偶然 , 或是命運 , 或什麼 ?
now , after admonishing us for turning the temperature up too high , he would tell us that our question was completely stupid .	在我們把溫度調高過高之後 , 他會告訴我們 , 我們的問題非常愚蠢 。
these corals can be quite kind of mean , you see , and i have surfing scars to prove that .	這些珊瑚可以說是相當的有意義的 , 而且我有衝浪的疤痕證明它的存在 。
but this polyp would continue and tell us that his neighbors were quite clearly identical copies of him .	但這隻複方會繼續告訴我們 , 他的鄰居很明顯地複製了他 。
that he was in all these other locations as well , but experiencing them as separate individuals .	他也在其他的地點 , 但也將他們視為獨立的個體 。
for a coral , branching into different copies is the most natural thing in the world .	對珊瑚而言 , 分支成不同的複製品是世界上最自然的事物 。
unlike us , a hyperintelligent coral would be uniquely prepared to understand quantum mechanics .	和我們不同的是 , 超級聰明的珊瑚是特別準備好要了解量子力學的 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics very accurately describes how our universe works .	量子力學的數學理論非常正確地描述我們的宇宙是如何運作的 。
and it tells us our reality is continually branching into different possibilities , just like a coral .	它告訴我們 , 我們的現實不斷地分裂成不同的可能性 , 就像珊瑚一樣 。
it's a weird thing for us humans to wrap our minds around , since we only ever get to experience one possibility .	對我們人類來說 , 這是一件很奇怪的事 , 因為我們只能體驗一種可能性 。
this quantum weirdness was first described by erwin schrödinger and his cat .	這種量子奇怪最早的描述是薛丁格和他的貓 。
the cat likes this version better .	貓更喜歡這個版本 。
in this setup , schrödinger is in a box with a radioactive sample that , by the laws of quantum mechanics , branches into a state in which it is radiated and a state in which it is not .	在這個設定中 , 薛丁格是一個放射性樣本的盒子 , 根據量子力學的定律 , 將它分成一個放射性狀態 , 和一個不存在的狀態 。
in the branch in which the sample radiates , it sets off a trigger that releases poison and schrödinger is dead .	在樣本輻射輻射的樹枝中 , 會引發一種刺激 , 釋放毒藥 , 薛丁格已經死了 。
but in the other branch of reality , he remains alive .	但在現實的另一邊 , 他仍然活著 。
these realities are experienced separately by each individual .	每個個體都經歷著不同的現實 。
as far as either can tell , the other one doesn't exist .	不管是哪一種都看得出來 , 另一個則不存在 。
this seems weird to us , because each of us only experiences an individual existence , and we don't get to see other branches .	這對我們來說很奇怪 , 因為我們每一個人只會經歷到一個個體的存在 , 而我們卻看不到其他分支 。
it's as if each of us , like schrödinger here , are a kind of coral branching into different possibilities .	這就好像我們每一個人 , 像薛丁格 , 都是在不同的可能性中分支出一塊珊瑚 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics tells us this is how the world works at tiny scales .	量子力學的數學告訴我們 , 這就是世界在微小尺度下運作的方式 。
it can be summed up in a single sentence: everything that can happen , does .	可以用一句話來總結:所有可能發生的事情 , 都可以發生 。
but this does not mean everything happens .	但這並不代表一切都會發生 。
the rest of physics is about describing what can happen and what can't .	剩下的物理學就是要描述什麼會發生 , 什麼不會發生 。
what physics tells us is that everything comes down to geometry and the interactions of elementary particles .	物理學告訴我們一切都歸結為幾何以及基本粒子的交互作用
and things can happen only if these interactions are perfectly balanced .	只有在這些互動完全平衡時 , 事情才會發生 。
now i'll go ahead and describe how we know about these particles , what they are and how this balance works .	接下來我會描述我們對這些粒子的了解它們是什麼以及這個平衡如何運作
in this machine , a beam of protons and antiprotons are accelerated to near the speed of light and brought together in a collision , producing a burst of pure energy .	在這台機器中 , 質子和反質子的束縛會加速接近光速 , 再加速撞擊 , 產生出巨大的純能量 。
this energy is immediately converted into a spray of subatomic particles , with detectors and computers used to figure out their properties .	這種能量會馬上被轉換成亞原子粒子的噴霧 , 探測器和電腦過去會找出它們的特性 。
this enormous machine the large hadron collider at cern in geneva has a circumference of 17 miles and , when it's operating , draws five times as much power as the city of monterey .	這台巨大的機器 , 日內瓦cerncern的cernclider有17英里的圓周長 , 當它在運作時 , 比蒙特雷市的五倍大 。
we can't predict specifically what particles will be produced in any individual collision .	我們無法精確預測哪些粒子會在任何對撞中產生 。
quantum mechanics tells us all possibilities are realized .	量子力學告訴我們所有的可能性 。
but physics does tell us what particles can be produced .	但物理學告訴我們哪些粒子可以產生 。
these particles must have just as much mass and energy as is carried in by the proton and antiproton .	這些粒子的質量和能量是按質子和反質子所攜帶的 。
any particles more massive than this energy limit aren't produced , and remain invisible to us .	任何比這能量極限更大的粒子都沒有產生 , 且對我們來說都還不可見 。
this is why this new particle accelerator is so exciting .	這就是為什麼這個新粒子加速器如此令人興奮 。
it's going to push this energy limit seven times beyond what's ever been done before , so we're going to get to see some new particles very soon .	它會把這個能量極限超出過去的七倍 , 所以我們很快會看到一些新的粒子 。
but before talking about what we might see , let me describe the particles we already know of .	但在談我們可能看到什麼之前 , 讓我先描述一下我們已知的粒子 。
there's a whole zoo of subatomic particles .	有一整個動物園的亞原子粒子 。
most of us are familiar with electrons .	我們大部分人都熟悉電子 。
a lot of people in this room make a good living pushing them around .	在座的各位 , 許多人都能過著良好的生活來推動他們 。
but the electron also has a neutral partner called the neutrino , with no electric charge and a very tiny mass .	但電子也有一個中立的夥伴叫 「 中子 」 , 沒有電荷 , 質量很小 。
in contrast , the upanddown quarks have very large masses , and combine in threes to make the protons and neutrons inside atoms .	相反的 , 上下的夸克有非常大的質量 , 將三分之一的質子和中子結合在原子裡 。
all of these matter particles come in left and righthanded varieties , and have antiparticle partners that carry opposite charges .	所有這些粒子都在左邊和右邊的多樣性中 , 帶有相反電荷的反粒子夥伴 。
these familiar particles also have less familiar second and third generations , which have the same charges as the first but have much higher masses .	這些熟悉的粒子也較不熟悉第二代和第三代 , 這些粒子的載荷和第一代相同 , 但質量較高 。
these matter particles all interact with the various force particles .	這些物質粒子會和不同的力子相互作用 。
the electromagnetic force interacts with electrically charged matter via particles called photons .	電磁力通過光子傳導物質 , 與電粒子互相作用 。
there is also a very weak force called , rather unimaginatively , the weak force , that interacts only with lefthanded matter .	另外還有一種非常微弱的力叫做弱力 , 不可思議的 , 只與左撇子的物質相互作用 。
the strong force acts between quarks which carry a different kind of charge , called color charge , and come in three different varieties: red , green and blue .	夸克之間的強力作用 , 帶著不同的載荷 , 稱為顏色充電 , 由三種不同的品種組成:紅色、綠色和藍色 。
you can blame murray gellmann for these names they're his fault .	你可以怪罪莫瑞•蓋爾曼這些名字 , 他們是他的錯 。
finally , there's the force of gravity , which interacts with matter via its mass and spin .	最後 , 還有重力 , 通過質量和旋轉 , 與物質產生交互作用 。
the most important thing to understand here is that there's a different kind of charge associated with each of these forces .	最重要的是每一種力都有不同的載荷 。
these four different forces interact with matter according to the corresponding charges that each particle has .	這四種力相互作用 , 根據每個粒子的對應載荷 。
a particle that hasn't been seen yet , but we're pretty sure exists , is the higgs particle , which gives masses to all these other particles .	一個還沒被看見的粒子 , 但是我們很確定存在 , 就是希格斯粒子 , 讓所有其他粒子產生質量 。
the main purpose of the large hadron collider is to see this higgs particle , and we're almost certain it will .	大型強子對撞機的主要目的是要看到希格斯粒子 , 我們幾乎可以確定它會不會發生 。
but the greatest mystery is what else we might see .	但最大的謎團是我們還能看到的 。
and i'm going to show you one beautiful possibility towards the end of this talk .	我要給你們看這場演講的結尾 , 一個美麗的可能性 。
now , if we count up all these different particles using their various spins and charges , there are 226 .	如果我們用不同的旋轉和載荷計算出所有這些不同的粒子 , 總共有226顆粒 。
that's a lot of particles to keep track of .	有很多的粒子可以追蹤 。
and it seems strange that nature would have so many elementary particles .	看來很奇怪 , 大自然擁有這麼多的基本粒子 。
but if we plot them out according to their charges , some beautiful patterns emerge .	但如果我們根據他們的指控將他們畫出來 , 有些美麗的圖案就會出現 。
the most familiar charge is electric charge .	最熟悉的充電方式是電荷 。
electrons have an electric charge , a negative one , and quarks have electric charges in thirds .	電子有一個負電荷 , 一個負電荷 , 而夸克的電荷只有三分之一 。
so when two up quarks and a down quark are combined to make a proton , it has a total electric charge of plus one .	所以當兩個上夸克和一個下夸克結合在一起製造一個質子時 , 它的電荷總和只有一個 。
these particles also have antiparticles , which have opposite charges .	這些粒子還有反粒子 , 它們的載荷相反 。
now , it turns out the electric charge is actually a combination of two other charges: hypercharge and weak charge .	結果發現 , 電荷其實是另外兩個載荷的結合:超荷和弱荷 。
if we spread out the hypercharge and weak charge and plot the charges of particles in this twodimensional charge space , the electric charge is where these particles sit along the vertical direction .	如果我們把超荷和弱荷分開 , 把粒子的載荷在這二度載荷空間中 , 電荷就是這些粒子沿著垂直方向移動時的位置 。
the electromagnetic and weak forces interact with matter according to their hypercharge and weak charge , which make this pattern .	電磁力和弱力通過超荷和弱荷相互作用 , 產生這種圖案 。
this is called the unified electroweak model , and it was put together back in 1967 .	這叫做 「 電子弱點統一模型 」 , 它在1967年被放回來 。
the reason most of us are only familiar with electric charge and not both of these is because of the higgs particle .	我們大部分人只熟悉電荷 , 而不是這兩種都是因為希格斯粒子 。
the higgs , over here on the left , has a large mass and breaks the symmetry of this electroweak pattern .	左邊的希格斯粒子有很大的質量 , 打破了這個電子弱點圖案的對稱性 。
it makes the weak force very weak by giving the weak particles a large mass .	它讓弱力非常弱 , 讓弱子有很大的質量 。
since this massive higgs sits along the horizontal direction in this diagram , the photons of electromagnetism remain massless and interact with electric charge along the vertical direction in this charge space .	因為這個巨大的希格斯粒子沿著水平方向前進 , 電磁力的光子仍然沒有質量的光子 , 在這個載荷空間中與電荷荷相互作用 。
so the electromagnetic and weak forces are described by this pattern of particle charges in twodimensional space .	所以電磁力和弱力被2d空間中的粒子載荷模式所描述 。
we can include the strong force by spreading out its two charge directions and plotting the charges of the force particles in quarks along these directions .	我們可以將強力包括強力的力量 , 只要把兩個載荷方向分開 , 沿著這些方向畫出載荷的夸克粒子 。
the charges of all known particles can be plotted in a fourdimensional charge space , and projected down to two dimensions like this so we can see them .	所有已知粒子的載荷可以在一個四度載荷空間中畫出來 , 然後投影到二度空間 , 這樣我們就可以看見它們 。
whenever particles interact , nature keeps things in a perfect balance along all four of these charge directions .	當粒子相互作用時 , 大自然在四個載荷方向上保持完美的平衡 。
if a particle and an antiparticle collide , it creates a burst of energy and a total charge of zero in all four charge directions .	如果粒子和反粒子碰撞 , 它就會產生能量和載荷的總方向 , 四個載荷方向都是零 。
at this point , anything can be created as long as it has the same energy and maintains a total charge of zero .	在這個時點 , 任何東西都可以產生 , 只要它有相同的能量 , 且能維持總電荷的0 。
for example , this weak force particle and its antiparticle can be created in a collision .	比如 , 這種弱力粒子和它的反粒子可以在碰撞中產生 。
in further interactions , the charges must always balance .	在進一步的互動中 , 收費總是平衡的 。
one of the weak particles could decay into an electron and an antineutrino , and these three still add to zero total charge .	一個弱子可以衰退成一個電子和一個反中子 , 這三個仍然是零電荷 。
nature always keeps a perfect balance .	大自然總是保持完美的平衡 。
so these patterns of charges are not just pretty .	所以這些 「 載荷 」 的模式並不好看 。
they tell us what interactions are allowed to happen .	他們告訴我們什麼樣的互動是可以發生的 。
and we can rotate this charge space in four dimensions to get a better look at the strong interaction , which has this nice hexagonal symmetry .	我們可以在四度空間中旋轉載荷空間 , 以得到更好的觀察強相互作用 , 這種對稱性很強 。
in a strong interaction , a strong force particle , such as this one , interacts with a colored quark , such as this green one , to give a quark with a different color charge this red one .	在一個強相互作用中 , 一個強力的粒子 , 例如這個 , 與一個有顏色的夸克相互作用 , 例如這個綠色的夸克 , 讓夸克有不同的顏色載荷這隻紅色的夸克 。
and strong interactions are happening millions of times each second in every atom of our bodies , holding the atomic nuclei together .	強相互作用每秒鐘發生數百萬次 , 發生在我們身體的每個原子上 , 把原子核放在一起 。
but these four charges corresponding to three forces are not the end of the story .	但這四個載荷對應到三股力量 , 並不是故事的結尾 。
we can also include two more charges corresponding to the gravitational force .	我們還可以再加入兩個載荷 , 來對應重力 。
when we include these , each matter particle has two different spin charges , spinup and spindown .	當我們把它們納入時 , 每一個粒子都有兩個不同的旋轉荷、旋轉和旋轉 。
so they all split , and give a nice pattern in sixdimensional charge space .	所以他們都分開了 , 在六度載荷空間中提供一個很好的圖案 。
we can rotate this pattern in six dimensions , and see that it's quite pretty .	我們可以在六度空間中旋轉這個圖案 , 看到它很漂亮 。
right now , this pattern matches our best current knowledge of how nature is built at the tiny scales of these elementary particles .	現在 , 這個圖案符合我們對於大自然如何在微小的尺度下建造出最好的大自然 。
this is what we know for certain .	這是我們所知道的 。
some of these particles are at the very limit of what we've been able to reach with experiments .	有些粒子的極限在實驗中 , 我們能達到的極限 。
from this pattern , we already know the particle physics of these tiny scales . the way the universe works with these tiny scales is very beautiful .	從這個圖案中 , 我們已經知道這些微小尺度的粒子物理學 。 宇宙和這些微小尺度的運作方式是非常美麗的 。
but now i'm going to discuss some new and old ideas about things we don't know yet .	但現在我要來談談一些新古老的想法 , 關於我們還不知道的事情 。
we want to expand this pattern using mathematics alone , and see if we can get our hands on the whole enchilada .	我們想要單獨用數學來拓展這個模式 , 看看我們能不能把我們的手伸向整個enchilada 。
we want to find all the particles and forces that make a complete picture of our universe .	我們想要找到組成宇宙的所有粒子和力 。
and we want to use this picture to predict new particles that we'll see when experiments reach higher energies .	我們想用這張照片來預測新的粒子 , 當實驗到達更高的能量時 。
so there's an old idea in particle physics that this known pattern of charges , which is not very symmetric , could emerge from a more perfect pattern that gets broken similar to how the higgs particle breaks the electroweak pattern to give electromagnetism .	所以 , 在粒子物理學中有個古老的想法 , 就是這種不對稱的載荷模式 , 可以從一個更完美的模式中產生 , 會跟希格斯粒子如何打破電磁力學的模式相似 。
in order to do this , we need to introduce new forces with new charge directions .	為了做到這一點 , 我們需要用新的載荷方向介紹新勢力 。
when we introduce a new direction , we get to guess what charges the particles have along this direction , and then we can rotate it in with the others .	當我們引入新方向時 , 我們可以猜出在這個方向上粒子的載荷是什麼 , 然後我們可以和其他的粒子一起旋轉 。
if we guess wisely , we can construct the standard charges in six charge dimensions as a broken symmetry of this more perfect pattern in seven charge dimensions .	如果我們明智地猜測 , 我們可以在六度載荷空間中建構標準載荷標準 , 作為七度載荷空間中更完美的對稱性 。
this particular choice corresponds to a grand unified theory introduced by pati and salam in 1973 .	這種特殊的選擇 , 源自於1973年由帕蒂和薩姆引入的統一理論 。
when we look at this new unified pattern , we can see a couple of gaps where particles seem to be missing .	當我們看這個新的統一圖案 , 我們可以看到一些空缺 , 粒子似乎在消失 。
this is the way theories of unification work .	這就是統一理論的原理 。
a physicist looks for larger , more symmetric patterns that include the established pattern as a subset .	物理學家尋找更大、更對稱的圖案 , 其中包含了最先進的圖案 。
the larger pattern allows us to predict the existence of particles that have never been seen .	更大的圖案讓我們能夠預測從未見過的粒子存在 。
this unification model predicts the existence of these two new force particles , which should act a lot like the weak force , only weaker .	這個統一模型預測了這兩種新力粒子的存在 , 它的作用應該很像弱力 , 只有比較弱 。
now we can rotate this set of charges in seven dimensions and consider an odd fact about the matter particles: the second and third generations of matter have exactly the same charges in sixdimensional charge space as the first generation .	我們可以在七度空間中旋轉這個載荷組 , 考慮到物質粒子的奇怪現象:在六度載荷空間中 , 第二代和第三代物質的載荷跟第一代物質的載荷是一樣的 。
these particles are not uniquely identified by their six charges .	這些粒子的六個載荷並非獨一無二 。
they sit on top of one another in the standard charge space .	他們坐在標準載荷空間裡 , 坐在標準載荷空間上 。
however , if we work in eightdimensional charge space , then we can assign unique new charges to each particle .	然而 , 如果我們在八度載荷空間中工作 , 那麼我們可以給每個粒子分配出獨一無二的新載荷 。
then we can spin these in eight dimensions , and see what the whole pattern looks like .	接著 , 我們可以在八度空間中旋轉 , 看看整個圖案是什麼樣子 。
here we can see the second and third generations of matter now related to the first generation by a symmetry called " triality . "	在這裡 , 我們可以看到物質的第二代和第三代 , 由一種叫做 「 複數性 」 的對稱性 , 與第一代相似 。
this particular pattern of charges in eight dimensions is actually part of the most beautiful geometric structure in mathematics .	這種八度載荷的特殊規則其實是數學中最美麗的幾何結構之一 。
it's a pattern of the largest exceptional lie group , e8 .	這是最大的特殊謊言團體e8的模式 。
this lie group is a smooth , curved shape with 248 dimensions .	這個謊言團體是一個平滑曲線的形狀有248維度
each point in this pattern corresponds to a symmetry of this very complex and beautiful shape .	在這個圖案中的每個點都對應到這個非常複雜且美麗的形狀的對稱性 。
one small part of this e8 shape can be used to describe the curved spacetime of einstein's general relativity , explaining gravity .	e8的一小部分可以用來描述愛因斯坦廣義相對論的曲線時空 , 用來解釋重力 。
together with quantum mechanics , the geometry of this shape could describe everything about how the universe works at the tiniest scales .	用量子力學 , 這個形狀的幾何形狀可以描述宇宙在最微小的尺度下如何運作 。
the pattern of this shape living in eightdimensional charge space is exquisitely beautiful , and it summarizes thousands of possible interactions between these elementary particles , each of which is just a facet of this complicated shape .	這種形狀生活在八度載荷空間中的圖案是非常美麗的它總結出了上千種可能的元素間的相互作用每一個都只是這個複雜的形狀的一面而已
as we spin it , we can see many of the other intricate patterns contained in this one .	當我們旋轉它時 , 我們可以看到許多其他複雜的圖案 。
and with a particular rotation , we can look down through this pattern in eight dimensions along a symmetry axis and see all the particles at once .	通過一個特定的旋轉 , 我們可以在八度空間沿著對稱軸看這個圖案 , 同時看到所有的粒子 。
it's a very beautiful object , and as with any unification , we can see some holes where new particles are required by this pattern .	它是一個非常美麗的物體 , 如同任何統一的統一方式 , 我們可以看到一些孔 , 在那裡 , 新粒子是被這個圖案所需要的 。
there are 20 gaps where new particles should be , two of which have been filled by the patisalam particles .	應該要有20個新粒子的落差 , 其中兩種粒子被patisalam粒子填滿 。
from their location in this pattern , we know that these new particles should be scalar fields like the higgs particle , but have color charge and interact with the strong force .	從圖案的位置 , 我們知道這些新粒子應該像希格斯粒子那樣狹隘 , 但卻能與強力相互作用 。
filling in these new particles completes this pattern , giving us the full e8 .	填入這些新粒子 , 完成了這個圖案 , 讓我們得到了全部e8 。
this e8 pattern has very deep mathematical roots .	e8圖案有很深的數學根源 。
it's considered by many to be the most beautiful structure in mathematics .	它被很多人認為是數學中最美麗的結構 。
it's a fantastic prospect that this object of great mathematical beauty could describe the truth of particle interactions at the smallest scales imaginable .	這個偉大的數學美麗的物體可以用最小的尺度描述粒子相互作用的真相 。
and this idea that nature is described by mathematics is not at all new .	數學界所描述的大自然 , 一點也不新 。
in 1623 , galileo wrote this: " nature's grand book , which stands continually open to our gaze , is written in the language of mathematics .	1623年 , 伽利略寫了這句話: 「 大自然的偉大書籍不斷地開放我們的目光 , 被寫在數學的語言中 。
its characters are triangles , circles and other geometrical figures , without which it is humanly impossible to understand a single word of it ; without these , one is wandering around in a dark labyrinth . "	它的角色是三角形、圓形 , 和其他幾何圖形 , 若沒有這些 , 人類就無法理解它 ; 若沒有這些 , 就會在黑暗的迷宮中漫遊 。 」
i believe this to be true , and i've tried to follow galileo's guidance in describing the mathematics of particle physics using only triangles , circles and other geometrical figures .	我相信這是真的 , 我試著遵循伽利略的指導 , 用只有三角形、圓形和其他幾何數字來描述粒子物理學的數學 。
of course , when other physicists and i actually work on this stuff , the mathematics can resemble a dark labyrinth .	當然 , 當我和其他物理學家一起研究這些東西時 , 數學就像一個黑暗的迷宮 。
but it's reassuring that at the heart of this mathematics is pure , beautiful geometry .	但這數學的核心是純粹美麗的幾何學 。
joined with quantum mechanics , this mathematics describes our universe as a growing e8 coral , with particles interacting at every location in all possible ways according to a beautiful pattern .	與量子力學結合 , 這個數學把我們的宇宙描述成一個生長的e8珊瑚 , 粒子在每個位置的互動 , 根據一個美麗的圖樣 。
and as more of the pattern comes into view using new machines like the large hadron collider , we may be able to see whether nature uses this e8 pattern or a different one .	用大型強子對撞機來觀察更多的圖案 , 我們也許能看到大自然用了e8型態或另一種新型態 。
this process of discovery is a wonderful adventure to be involved in .	這個發現的過程是很棒的冒險旅程 。
if the lhc finds particles that fit this e8 pattern , that will be very , very cool .	如果對撞機發現符合e8圖案的粒子 , 那就太酷了 。
if the lhc finds new particles , but they don't fit this pattern well , that will be very interesting , but bad for this e8 theory .	如果對撞機發現了新的粒子 , 但它們不符合這個圖案 , 那會非常有趣 , 但對e8理論不好 。
and , of course , bad for me personally .	當然 , 對我個人也不好 。
now how bad would that be ?	這樣會有多糟 ?
well , pretty bad .	嗯 , 還蠻糟的 。
but predicting how nature works is a very risky game .	但 , 預測大自然如何運作是很有風險的遊戲 。
this theory and others like it are long shots .	這個理論和其他類似的理論是很長的一幕 。
one does a lot of hard work knowing that most of these ideas probably won't end up being true about nature .	一個人做了很多努力 , 知道大部分這些點子可能最後不會成真 。
that's what doing theoretical physics is like: there are a lot of wipeouts .	這就是理論物理學的做法:有很多扭曲 。
in this regard , new physics theories are a lot like startup companies .	在這方面 , 新的物理理論和新創公司很像 。
as with any large investment , it can be emotionally difficult to abandon a line of research when it isn't working out .	就如同任何大型投資一樣 , 當它運作不順利時 , 情緒上很難放棄一行研究 。
but in science , if something isn't working , you have to toss it out and try something else .	但在科學界 , 如果有什麼行不通 , 你得要丟掉它 , 嘗試別的 。
now , the only way to maintain sanity and achieve happiness in the midst of this uncertainty is to keep balance and perspective in life .	在這個不確定之中 , 要保持理智和成就快樂的唯一方法 , 就是保持生活的平衡和觀點 。
i've tried the best i can to live a balanced life .	我盡我所能地過著平衡的生活 。
i try to balance my life equally between physics , love and surfing my own three charge directions .	我試著平衡我的人生 , 在物理、愛和衝浪中我自己的三個載荷方向之間 。
this way , even if the physics i work on comes to nothing , i still know i've lived a good life .	這樣 , 就算我研究的物理學也沒有 , 我仍然知道我過得很好 。
and i try to live in beautiful places .	我試著住在美麗的地方 。
for most of the past ten years i've lived on the island of maui , a very beautiful place .	過去10年來 , 我大部分時間都住在毛伊島 , 一個非常美的地方 。
now it's one of the greatest mysteries in the universe to my parents how i managed to survive all that time without engaging in anything resembling fulltime employment .	現在 , 這是我父母最大的謎團之一 , 是我如何在沒有任何類似全職工作的情況下 , 一直活下來的 。
i'm going to let you in on that secret .	我要告訴你們一個秘密 。
this was a view from my home office on maui .	這是我在毛伊的家鄉辦公室的景色 。
and you may have noticed that these beautiful views are similar , but in slightly different places .	你可能已經注意到 , 這些美麗的景色很相似 , 但在有些許不同的地方 。
that's because this used to be my home and office on maui .	那是因為這是我在毛伊的家和辦公室 。
i've chosen a very unusual life .	我選擇了一種很不尋常的生活 。
but not worrying about rent allowed me to spend my time doing what i love .	但不用擔心房租讓我有足夠的時間做我所愛的事 。
living a nomadic existence has been hard at times , but it's allowed me to live in beautiful places and keep a balance in my life that i've been happy with .	遊牧的存在有時很艱難 , 但它讓我可以生活在美麗的地方 , 在我的生活中保持平衡 。
it allows me to spend a lot of my time hanging out with hyperintelligent coral .	它讓我可以花很多時間和超級聰明的珊瑚相處 。
but i also greatly enjoy the company of hyperintelligent people .	但我也很享受超級聰明人的公司 。
so i'm very happy to have been invited here to ted .	我很高興能來到ted 。
chris anderson: i probably understood two percent of that , but i still absolutely loved it . so i'm going to sound dumb .	克里斯•安德森:我大概明白百分之二 , 但我還是很喜歡 。 所以我要聽起來很笨 。
your theory of everything garrett lisi: i'm used to coral .	你對所有東西的理論-garretlisi:我習慣珊瑚 。
ca: that's right . the reason it's got a few people at least excited is because , if you're right , it brings gravity and quantum theory together .	克:是的 。 讓幾個人至少感到興奮的原因是 , 如果你是對的 , 會把重力和量子理論結合在一起 。
so are you saying that we should think of the universe , at its heart that the smallest things that there are , are somehow an e8 object of possibility ?	所以你是說 , 我們應該去思考宇宙 , 它的核心最小的東西 , 是否有e8的可能性 ?
i mean , is there a scale to it , at the smallest scale , or . . . ?	我的意思是 , 在最小的尺度上 , 有沒有一個尺度 ?
gl: well , right now the pattern i showed you that corresponds to what we know about elementary particle physics that already corresponds to a very beautiful shape .	格林:嗯 , 現在我給你看的圖案 , 與我們所知的基本粒子物理學對應的結構非常漂亮 。
and that's the one that i said we knew for certain .	這是我說的我們肯定知道的 。
and that shape has remarkable similarities and the way it fits into this e8 pattern could be the rest of the picture .	那個形狀有著驚人的相似性它與e8圖片相符合的方式可能是其他的圖片
and these patterns of points that i've shown for you actually represent symmetries of this highdimensional object that would be warping and moving and dancing over the space time that we experience .	我給你們看的這些點的圖案 , 實際上代表了這個高維物體的對稱性 , 在我們體驗的時空中 , 會扭曲、移動、跳舞 。
and that would be what explains all these elementary particles that we see .	這就解釋了我們所看到的所有基本粒子 。
ca: but a string theorist , as i understand it , explains electrons in terms of much smaller strings vibrating i know you don't like string theory vibrating inside it .	克:但 , 如我所知 , 弦理論家解釋了電子在更小的弦震動方面的現象 , 我知道你不喜歡弦理論在裡面震動 。
how should we think of an electron in relation to e8 ?	我們怎麼看待電子與e8有關 ?
gl: no , it would be one of the symmetries of this e8 shape .	格林:不 , 這會是e8形狀的對稱性之一 。
so what's happening is , as the shape is moving over spacetime , it's twisting . and the direction it's twisting as it moves is what particle we see . so it would be ca: the size of the e8 shape , how does that relate to the electron ?	所以當它的形狀在時空中移動 , 它會扭轉 。 當它移動時 , 它扭轉的方向是我們看到的粒子 。 所以它會是:e8形狀的大小 , 和電子有什麼關係 ?
i kind of feel like i need that for my picture .	我覺得我需要我的照片 。
is it bigger ? is it smaller ?	會變大嗎 ? 會變小嗎 ?
gl: well , as far as we know electrons are point particles , so this would be going down to the smallest possible scales .	格林:嗯 , 就我們所知的電子是點粒子 , 所以這會向下到最小的可能尺度 。
so the way these things are explained in quantum field theory is , all possibilities are expanding and developing at once .	所以 , 在量子場理論中 , 這些東西的解釋是 , 所有的可能性同時在膨脹和發展 。
and this is why i use the analogy to coral .	這就是為什麼我會用它來比喻珊瑚 。
and in this way , the way that e8 comes in is it will be as a shape that's attached at each point in spacetime .	如此一來 , e8就成了一個形狀 , 在時空中每一點都固定在一個形狀 。
and , as i said , the way the shape twists the directional along which way the shape is twisting as it moves over this curved surface is what the elementary particles are , themselves .	如同我所說的 , 形狀的扭轉方式 , 隨著它在曲面上移動時 , 扭轉的方向 , 便是基本粒子本身 。
so through quantum field theory , they manifest themselves as points and interact that way .	透過量子場理論 , 它們表現出點和相互作用 。
i don't know if i'll be able to make this any clearer .	我不知道我能不能說得更清楚 。
ca: it doesn't really matter .	克:這真的不重要 。
it's evoking a kind of sense of wonder , and i certainly want to understand more of this .	它引起了一種驚奇感 , 我肯定想了解更多 。
but thank you so much for coming . that was absolutely fascinating .	但 , 非常謝謝你們來到這裡 。 這真是令人著迷 。
the legendary chimpanzee researcher jane goodall talks about tacare and her other community projects , which help people in booming african towns live sidebyside with threatened animals .	傳奇性的黑猩猩珍•古德爾研究員談到塔司和其它的社區計畫 , 協助非洲城鎮裡的居民與受威脅的動物住在一旁 。
africa , animals , biodiversity , environment , global issues , pollution , primates , science	非洲、動物、生物多樣性、環境、全球議題、污染、靈長類、科學等 。
jane goodall helps humans and animals live together	珍•古德能協助人類和動物一起生活 。
good afternoon , good evening , whatever .	午安 , 晚安 , 等等 。
we can go , jambo , guten abend , bonsoir , but we can also ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh .	我們可以去 , 果醬 , 果醬 , 糖果 , 邦索爾 , 但我們也可以喔 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 。
that is the call that chimpanzees make before they go to sleep in the evening .	這就是黑猩猩在晚上睡覺前所打的電話 。
you hear it going from one side of the valley to the other , from one group of nests to the next .	你聽到它從山谷的一邊走到另一邊 , 從一群巢穴到下一層 。
and i want to pick up with my talk this evening from where zeray left off yesterday .	昨天晚上我想聽聽我的演講 , 演講的主題是zeray昨天離開這裡 。
he was talking about this amazing , threeyearold australopithecine child , selam .	他談到這個神奇的 , 三歲的奧斯陸古猿兒 , 塞拉姆 。
and we've also been hearing about the history , the family tree , of mankind through dna genetic profiling .	我們也聽過人類的歷史、家譜樹 , 透過dna的側寫 ,
and it was a paleontologist , the late louis leakey , who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees .	那是一位古生物學家 , 已故的路易斯.李基 , 他讓我踏上研究黑猩猩的道路 。
and it was pretty extraordinary , way back then .	當時的情況真是太神奇了
it's kind of commonplace now , but his argument was because he'd been searching for the fossilized remains of early humans in africa .	現在這已經很常見了 , 但他的論點是 , 因為他一直在尋找非洲早期人類的化石遺骸 。
and you can tell an awful lot about what those beings looked like from the fossils , from the shape of the muscle attachments , something about the way they lived from the various artifacts found with them .	你能從那些化石中得知很多關於那些生物從化石中 , 從肌肉的形狀 , 到它們與它們一起生活的各種藝術品 。
but what about how they behaved ? that's what he wanted to know .	但他們的行為呢 ? 這是他想要知道的 。
and of course , behavior doesn't fossilize .	當然 , 行為並不會化石 。
he argued and it's now a fairly common theory that if we found behavior patterns similar or the same in our closest living relatives , the great apes , and humans today , then maybe those behaviors were present in the apelike , humanlike ancestor some seven million years ago .	他主張現在是個很普遍的理論 , 如果我們在我們最接近的活生親戚中發現行為模式或相同的行為模式 , 今天的人類 , 那麼也許這些行為在七百萬年前出現 。
and therefore , perhaps we had brought those characteristics with us from that ancient , ancient past .	因此 , 也許我們從那古老、古老的過去 , 帶著這些特性 。
well , if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution , you very often find people speculating about how early humans may have behaved , based on the behavior of chimpanzees .	如果你看今天的教科書 , 內容是關於人類演化的 , 你經常會發現人們根據黑猩猩的行為來推測早期人類的行為 。
they are more like us than any other living creature , and we've heard about that during this ted conference .	牠們比其他任何生物都更像我們 , 在ted會議中我們也聽過 。
so it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzees are so like us , in certain aspects of their behavior .	所以 , 我還是要對黑猩猩和我們如此相似 , 在某些方面的行為做出評論 。
every chimpanzee has his or her own personality .	每隻黑猩猩都有自己的個性 。
of course , i gave them names . they can live to be 60 years or more , although we think most of them probably don't make it to 60 in the wild .	當然 , 我給他們取了名字 , 他們可以活到60歲以上雖然我們認為他們大部分人都不會在野外活到60歲
mr . wurzel . the female has her first baby when she's 11 or 12 .	沃茲先生 。 女生在11或12歲時 , 生了她的第一個孩子 。
thereafter , she has one baby only every five or six years , a long period of childhood dependency when the child is nursing , sleeping with the mother at night , and riding on her back .	在那裡 , 她的孩子每五到六年僅有一個孩子 , 當孩子在哺乳期時 , 她的童年依賴度很長一段時間 , 晚上和母親上床 , 背上背著她 。
and we believe that this long period of childhood is important for chimpanzees , just as it is for us , in relation to learning .	我們相信這漫長的童年對黑猩猩很重要 , 就跟我們一樣 , 和學習有關 。
as the brain becomes ever more complex during evolution in different forms of animals , so we find that learning plays an ever more important role in an individual's life history .	隨著大腦在不同的動物進化過程中變得更複雜 , 我們發現 , 在個人的生命歷史中 , 學習扮演著更重要的角色 。
and young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do .	年輕的黑猩猩花很多時間觀察長老的行為 。
we know now that they're capable of imitating behaviors that they see .	我們現在知道牠們有能力模仿牠們所看到的行為 。
and we believe that it's in this way that the different toolusing behaviors that have now been seen in all the different chimpanzee populations studied in africa how these are passed from one generation to the next , through observation , imitation and practice , so that we can describe these toolusing behaviors as primitive culture .	我們相信 , 藉由觀察、模仿和練習這些現在在非洲各個黑猩猩族群中已經看到不同的工具行為 , 這些行為是如何一代一代傳下去的 , 透過觀察、模仿和練習來傳遞的 , 如此一來 , 我們就能將這些工具使用的行為描述為原始文化 。
chimpanzees don't have a spoken language . we've talked about that .	黑猩猩沒有口語語言 。 我們已經談過了 。
they do have a very rich repertoire of postures and gestures , many of which are similar , or even identical , to ours and formed in the same context . greeting chimpanzees embracing .	他們的確擁有非常豐富的姿勢和姿勢 , 其中有許多是相似的 , 甚至相同的 , 在相同的情境中形成 。 歡迎的黑猩猩擁抱 。
they also kiss , hold hands , pat one another on the back .	他們也會親吻、握手、拍背 。
and they swagger and they throw rocks .	它們會膨脹 , 丟擲石頭 。
in chimpanzee society , we find many , many examples of compassion , precursors to love and true altruism .	在黑猩猩的社會中 , 我們發現許多許多許多例子 , 都是同情心的前兆 , 愛的前兆者 , 以及真正的利他行為 。
unfortunately , they , like us , have a dark side to their nature .	不幸的是 , 牠們和我們一樣 , 本質上有黑暗面 。
they're capable of extreme brutality , even a kind of primitive war .	他們有能力進行極端殘酷的行為 , 甚至是一場原始的戰爭 。
and these really aggressive behaviors , for the most part , are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group .	而這些非常具侵略性的行為 , 大部分時間 , 都是針對鄰近社會群體的個體來做 。
they are very territorially aggressive .	他們非常的積極 。
chimpanzees , i believe , more than any other living creature , have helped us to understand that , after all , there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom .	黑猩猩 , 我相信 , 比起任何其他生物 , 已經幫助我們了解到 , 畢竟 , 人類和動物王國之間並沒有明顯的界限 。
it's a very blurry line , and it's getting more blurry all the time as we make even more observations .	這條線非常模糊 , 每次當我們更加觀察時 , 它就會變得更模糊 。
the study that i began in 1960 is still continuing to this day .	我從1960年開始的研究至今仍持續著 。
and these chimpanzees , living their complex social lives in the wild , have helped more than anything else to make us realize we are part of , and not separated from , the amazing animals with whom we share the planet .	這些黑猩猩生活在野外複雜的社交生活中 , 已經幫助我們認識到 , 我們是其中的一份子 , 而不是與我們共享這個星球的神奇動物 。
so it's pretty sad to find that chimpanzees , like so many other creatures around the world , are losing their habitats .	所以 , 很讓人難過 , 發現黑猩猩 , 就像世界上其他許多生物一樣 , 正在失去棲息地 。
this is just one photograph from the air , and it shows you the forested highlands of gombe .	這只是一張空氣拍攝的照片 , 它展示了哥倫比的森林高地 。
and it was when i flew over the whole area , about 16 years ago , and realized that outside the park , this forest , which in 1960 had stretched almost unbroken along the eastern shore of lake tanganyika , which is where the tiny , 30squaremile gombe national park lies , that a question came to my mind .	那時 , 我飛越了整個區域 , 大約十六年前 , 發現在公園以外的這片森林 , 在1960年 , 這片森林在坦班尼卡湖東岸幾乎沒有被破壞 , 在那裡 , 小小的 , 30平方英尺的哥倫比國家公園就在那裡 , 一個問題來到我腦海中 。
" how can we even try to save these famous chimpanzees , when the people living around the national park are struggling to survive ? "	「 我們要如何拯救這些知名的黑猩猩 , 當全國公園周圍的人在掙扎求生存時 ? 」
more people are living there than the land could possibly support .	比起土地 , 更多的人都住在那裡 , 可能還多 。
the numbers increased by refugees pouring in from burundi and over the lake from congo .	從蒲隆地和剛果湖的難民數目增加了 。
and very poor people they couldn't afford to buy food from elsewhere .	非常貧窮的人無法從別處購買食物 。
this led to a program , which we call tacare .	這就帶出了一個計畫 , 我們稱之為tacare 。
it's a very holistic way of improving the lives of the people living in the villages around the park .	這是一種整體的改善公園周圍村落居民的生活方式 。
it started small with 12 villages . it's now in 24 .	從十二個村莊開始 , 現在二十四個村莊 。
there isn't time to go into it , but it's including things like tree nurseries , methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded , almost desertlike land up in these mountains .	沒有時間深入探究 , 包括樹木護士之類的 , 目前最適合這種方式的養殖方式 , 非常退化 , 幾乎像沙漠一樣的降落在這些山區 。
ways of controlling , preventing soil erosion .	控制、預防土壤流失的方法 。
ways of reclaiming overused farmland , so that within two years they can again be productive .	恢復過度使用的農地 , 這麼一來 , 農地就能再次有生產力 。
working to help the villagers obtain fresh water from wells .	努力協助村民從井裡獲取淡水 。
perhaps build some schoolrooms .	也許建造一些教室 。
most important of all , i believe , is working with small groups of women , providing them with opportunities for microcredit loans .	最重要的是 , 我相信 , 和一小群女性合作 , 提供她們微型貸款的機會 。
and we've got , as is the case around the world , about 95 percent of all loans returned .	如同世界各地的情況 , 大約有95%的貸款都回來了 。
empowering women , working with education , providing scholarships for girls so they can finish secondary school , in the clear understanding that , all around the world , as women's education improves , family size drops .	授權女性 , 和教育合作 , 提供女性獎學金給女孩們 , 如此一來 , 她們就能完成中學教育 , 清楚了解到 , 在全世界 , 隨著女性的教育改善 , 家庭規模下降 。
we provide information about family planning and about hiv/aids .	我們提供家庭規劃和愛滋病的資訊 。
and as a result of this program , something's happening for conservation .	由於這個計畫 , 有些事情會發生在保育上 。
what's happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages , instead of looking on us as a bunch of white people coming to study a whole bunch of monkeys and by the way , many of the staff are now tanzanian but when we began the tacare program , it was a tanzanian team going into the villages .	保育的情況是 , 在24個村莊裡 , 居住在24個村莊的農夫 , 與其視我們為一群白種人 , 來研究一大群猴子 , 順道一提 , 有很多員工現在是坦尚尼亞人 , 但當我們開始計劃時 , 坦尚尼亞的團隊進入了村落 。
it was a tanzanian team talking to the villagers , asking what they were interested in .	那是一個坦尚尼亞的團隊 , 和村民交談 , 問他們感興趣什麼 。
were they interested in conservation ? absolutely not .	他們對保育感興趣嗎 ? 絕對沒有 。
they were interested in health ; they were interested in education .	他們對健康有興趣 ; 他們對教育有興趣 。
and as time went on , and as their situation began to improve , they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation .	隨著時間的推移 , 當他們的情況開始改善 , 他們開始更了解保育的必要性 。
they began to understand that as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees , so you've got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides .	他們開始明白 , 當山丘上層的樹木被砍掉時 , 土壤流失和泥土流失 。
today , we are developing what we call the greater gombe ecosystem .	現今 , 我們正在發展所謂的 「 大腸桿菌生態系統 」 。
this is an area way outside the national park , stretching out into all these very degraded lands .	這是一個遠遠超出國家公園的區域 , 延伸到這些被破壞的土地上 。
and as these villages have a better standard of life , they are actually agreeing to put between 10 percent and 20 percent of their land in the highlands aside , so that once again , as the trees grow back , the chimpanzees will have leafy corridors through which they can travel to interact as they must for genetic viability with other remnant groups outside the national park .	當這些村莊有更好的生活標準時 , 他們其實同意將百分之十到二十的高地之外的土地放在一起 , 所以 , 再一次地 , 當樹木長回來 , 黑猩猩會穿著樹葉走廊 , 牠們可以在國家公園以外的遺傳性交互作用 。
so tacare is a success .	所以坦尚尼亞造林計劃是一個成功的案例 。
we're replicating it in other parts of africa , around other wilderness areas which are faced with extreme population pressure .	我們在非洲的其他地方複製它 , 其它荒野地區也面臨著人口極大的壓力 。
the problems in africa , however , as we've been discussing for the whole of these first couple of days of ted , are major problems .	然而 , 非洲的問題 , 正如我們在ted的前幾天所討論的 , 正是重大的問題 。
there is a great deal of poverty .	有許多的貧窮問題 。
and when you get large numbers of people living in land that is not that fertile , particularly when you cut down trees , and you leave the soil open to the wind for erosion , as desperate populations cut down more and more trees , so that they can try and grow food for themselves and their families , what's going to happen ? something's got to give .	當你有大量住在土地上的人 , 不是那種肥料 , 尤其是當你砍掉樹木 , 讓土壤開放給侵蝕 , 當絕望的族群砍掉更多的樹木 , 如此一來 , 他們就能嘗試種植食物給他們自己和家人 , 會發生什麼事 ? 有些事要付出 。
and the other problems in not only africa , but the rest of the developing world and , indeed , everywhere what are we doing to our planet ?	除了非洲以外 , 還有其他問題 , 還有其他發展中國家 , 到處都有 , 我們對地球做了什麼 ?
you know , the famous scientist , e . o . wilson said that if every person on this planet attains the standard of living of the average european or american , we need three new planets .	你知道 , 著名的科學家 , e.o.wilson曾說過 , 如果地球上每個人的平均生活水準是歐洲人或美國人的平均生活水準 , 我們需要三個新星球 。
today , they are saying four . but we don't have them . we've got one .	今天 , 他們說的是四種 。 但是我們沒有 。 我們有一個 。
and what's happened ? i mean , the question here is , here we are , arguably the most intelligent being that's ever walked planet earth , with this extraordinary brain , capable of the kind of technology that is so well illustrated by these ted conferences , and yet we're destroying the only home we have .	發生了什麼事 ? 我的意思是 , 問題是 , 在這裡 , 可以說是有史以來最聰明的人 , 帶著這非凡的大腦走過地球 , 能夠說出這些ted會議所描繪出的科技 , 但我們卻摧毀了我們唯一的家園 。
the indigenous people around the world , before they made a major decision , used to sit around and ask themselves , " how does this decision affect our people seven generations ahead ? "	世界各地的原住民 , 在他們做出重大決定之前 , 曾坐在那 , 自問: 「 這個決策如何影響我們前七代的人 ? 」
today , major decisions and i'm not particularly talking about africa here , but the developed world major decisions involving millions of dollars , and millions of people , are often based on , " how will this affect the next shareholders' meeting ? "	今天 , 重大的決定--我在這裡不特別談論非洲 , 但已開發國家的重大決定涉及了數百萬美元 , 數百萬人 , 通常都是根據 「 這會如何影響下一次股東會議 ? 」
and these decisions affect africa .	這些決定會影響非洲 。
as i began traveling around africa talking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests , i realized more and more how so many of africa's problems could be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation .	當我開始在非洲各地旅行 , 談論黑猩猩面臨的問題 , 以及牠們消失的森林 , 我越來越了解到 , 非洲的問題有多少 , 可以被擺在前殖民地利用的門口 。
so i began traveling outside africa , talking in europe , talking in the united states , going to asia .	所以我開始到外面旅行 , 到歐洲演講 , 在美國和亞洲交談 。
and everywhere there were these terrible problems .	到處都有這些可怕的問題 。
and you know the kind i'm talking about . i'm talking about pollution .	你知道我說的那種 , 我說的是污染 。
the air that we breathe that often poisons us .	我們呼吸的空氣通常會毒害我們 。
the earth is poisoning our foods .	地球正在毒害我們的食物 。
the water water is perhaps one of the most crucial issues that we're going to face in this century and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural , industrial and household chemicals that still are being sprayed around the world , seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience .	水資源可能是這個世紀最關鍵的議題之一 , 到處都是 , 水會被農業、工業、家庭的化學品污染 , 全世界仍然被噴灑到處都是 , 似乎還沒有從過去經驗中獲益 。
the mangroves are being cut down ; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse .	紅樹林被砍伐 , 像海嘯的效應變得更糟 。
we've talked about the soil erosion .	我們已經談過土壤流失 。
we have the reckless burning of fossil fuels along with other greenhouse gasses , so called , leading to climate change .	我們有無計可施的燃燒石化燃料 , 伴隨著其他溫室氣體 , 導致氣候變遷 。
finally , all around the world , people have begun to believe that there is something going on very wrong with our climate .	最後 , 全世界的人們開始相信 , 我們的氣候出現了一些問題 。
all around the world climates are mixed up .	全世界的氣候都被混合在一起 。
and it's the poor people who are affected worse .	貧窮的人受到更糟的影響 。
it's africa that already is affected .	非洲已經受到影響 。
in many parts of subsaharan africa , the droughts are so much worse .	在撒哈拉以南非洲的許多地區 , 乾旱的狀況非常糟糕 。
and when the rain does come , it so often leads to flooding and added distress , and the cycle of poverty and hunger and disease .	當雨季來臨時 , 通常會造成洪水災難 , 以及貧窮、飢餓和疾病的循環 。
and the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support , who are too poor to buy food , who can't move away because the whole land is degraded .	住在這片土地上的人數是無法支援的 , 貧窮到無法購買食物 , 無法搬走的人 , 因為整片土地都被降解了 。
and so you get desertification creeping , creeping , creeping as the last of the trees are cut down .	所以 , 隨著最後一棵樹木被砍掉 , 沙漠化、令人毛骨悚然 。
and this kind of thing is not just in africa . it's all over the world .	這種事不只發生在非洲 , 全世界都有 。
so it wasn't surprising to me that as i was traveling around the world i met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope .	所以 , 我並不意外 , 當我在世界各地旅行時 , 我遇到許多失去希望的年輕人 。
we seem to have lost wisdom , the wisdom of the indigenous people .	我們似乎失去了智慧 , 即原住民的智慧 。
i asked a question . " why ? "	我問了一個問題: 「 為什麼 ? 」
well , do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain , the kind of brain that the ted technologies exemplify , and the human heart ? talking about it in the nonscientific term , in terms of love and compassion . is there some disconnect ?	嗯 , 你認為在這個聰明的大腦和這類聰明的大腦之間有一定的斷層關係嗎 ? 那種ted技術顯現出來的大腦 , 而人類的心 ? 用非科學的術語談論它 , 用愛和同情的術語來說 , 是否有些斷層 ?
and these young people , when i talk to them , basically they were either depressed or apathetic , or bitter and angry . and they said more or less the same thing , " we feel this way because we feel you've compromised our future and there's nothing we can do about it . "	而這些年輕人 , 當我和他們說話時 , 基本上他們就是憂鬱或冷漠 , 或痛苦和生氣 。 他們說的多或少是這樣的: 「 我們會這樣想 , 」 因為我們覺得你已經妥協了我們的未來 , 而我們卻束手無策 。 」
we have compromised their future .	我們已經妥協了他們的未來 。
i've got three little grandchildren , and every time i look at them and i think how we've harmed this beautiful planet since i was their age , i feel this desperation .	我有三個小孫子 , 每次我看著他們 , 我想 , 我們從小時候就已經傷害了這個美麗的星球 , 我感到絕望 。
and that led to this program we call roots and shoots , which began right here in tanzania and has now spread to 97 countries around the world .	這導致我們稱之為 「 根與芽 」 這個計畫 , 開始於坦尚尼亞 , 現在已擴散到全球97個國家 。
it's symbolic . roots make a firm foundation .	它是象徵性的 。 根是堅固的基礎 。
shoots seem tiny ; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall .	射擊似乎很小 ; 為了抵達太陽 , 他們可以打破磚牆 。
see the brick wall as all these problems we've inflicted on the planet , environmental and social . it's a message of hope .	把這些磚牆看成是我們在這個星球上所遭受的所有問題 , 環境和社會問題 。 這是一種希望的訊息 。
hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things .	全世界有成千上萬的年輕人可以突破這個世界 , 讓所有生物都變得更美好 。
the most important message of roots and shoots: every single one of us makes a difference , every single day .	根與芽的重要訊息:我們每一個人 , 每天都有所不同 。
we have a choice . every one of us in this room , we have a choice as to what kind of difference we want to make .	我們有選擇 。 在座的每個人 , 我們都有選擇要做什麼樣的不同 。
the very poor have no choice . it's up to us to change things so that the poor have choice as well .	窮人別無選擇 , 由我們決定改變現狀 , 讓窮人也能選擇 。
the roots and shoots groups all choose three projects .	根與芽團體選擇三個項目 。
it depends on how old they are , and which country , whether they're in a city or rural , as to what kinds of projects .	這取決於他們年齡多大 , 不管是哪個國家 , 不管是在城市或鄉村 , 或哪種計畫 。
but basically , we have programs now from preschool right through university , with more and more adults starting their own roots and shoots groups .	但基本上 , 我們現在有從幼稚園到大學的計畫 , 有越來越多的成人開始他們的根部和槍擊團體 。
and every group chooses , between them , three different kinds of project to make this a better world , recognizing that all these different problems are interconnected and impinge on each other .	每個團體中 , 選擇三個不同的專案計畫 , 來讓這個世界變得更好 , 了解到所有這些不同的問題都互相連結 , 並互相影響 。
so one of their projects will be to help their own human community .	他們的其中一個計畫是幫助他們自己的社群 。
and then , if they're able , they may raise money to help communities in other parts of the world .	然後 , 如果他們有能力 , 他們就可以籌集資金來幫助世界上其他地方的社區 。
one of their projects will be to help animals not just wildlife , domestic animals as well .	其中一個計畫是幫助動物不只是野生動物 , 家庭動物 。
and one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share .	他們的其中一個計畫是幫助我們共享的環境 。
and woven throughout all of this is a message of learning to live in peace and harmony within ourselves , in our families , in our communities , between nations , between cultures , between religions and between us and the natural world .	在這些過程中 , 編織出一個訊息 , 關於學習如何在我們自己、家庭、社區中、國家之間、文化間、宗教間 , 和自然界之間生活的和諧 。
we need the natural world . we cannot go on destroying it at the rate we are .	我們需要自然世界 。 我們不能以比率毀滅它 。
we not do have more than this one planet .	我們沒有超過這個星球 。
just picking one or two of the projects right here in africa that the roots and shoots groups are doing , one or two projects only in tanzania , in uganda , kenya , south africa , congobrazzaville , sierra leone , cameroon and other groups . and as i say , it's in 97 countries around the world .	就在非洲這裡 , 挑選一個或兩個專案 , 一個或兩個專案計畫 , 在坦尚尼亞 , 在烏干達 , 肯亞 , 南非 , 剛果 , 獅子山 , 喀麥隆 , 和其他團體 。 如我所說 , 在世界上的97個國家 。
of course , they're planting trees . they're growing organic vegetables .	當然 , 他們在種植樹木 , 種植有機蔬菜 。
they're working in the refugee camps , with chickens and selling the eggs for a little amount of money , or just using them to feed their families , and feeling a sense of pride and empowerment , because they're no longer helpless and depending on others with their vegetables and their chickens .	他們在難民營工作 , 和雞一起賣蛋 , 賺了一點錢 , 或只是用它們來養家糊口 , 感覺到一種驕傲感和賦權感 , 因為他們不再無助 , 不再依靠別人的蔬菜和雞肉 。
it's being used in uganda to give some psychological help to exchild soldiers .	它被用在烏干達 , 給予士兵一些心理上的幫助 。
doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves .	像這樣的專案計畫是把他們自己帶出去 。
once again , they're useful members of society .	再一次 , 他們是有用的社會成員 。
we have this program in prisons as well .	我們在監獄裡也有這個計畫 。
so , there's no time for more roots and shoots now .	所以現在根與芽是沒有時間的 。
but oh , they're also working on hiv/aids .	但 , 喔 , 他們也在研究愛滋病 。
that's a very important component of roots and shoots , with older kids talking to younger ones .	這是根與芽的重要成份 , 和年長的孩子對話 。
and unwanted pregnancies and things like that , which young people listen to better from other youth , rather than adults .	不想要懷孕之類的 , 讓年輕人更能聽其他人的心聲 , 而不是成人 。
hope . that's the question i get asked as i'm going around the world: " jane , you've seen so many terrible things , you've seen your chimpanzees decrease in number from about one million , at the turn of the century , to no more than 150 , 000 now , and the same with so many other animals .	希望 。 我在世界各地都會被問到這樣的問題: 「 珍 , 你看過這麼多糟糕的事情 , 你看到你的黑猩猩從一世紀末 , 從一百萬隻到現在都在減少 , 到現在已經沒有超過一萬隻 , 和許多其他的動物一樣 。
forests disappearing , deserts where once there was forest .	森林消失 , 曾經是森林的沙漠 。
do you really have hope ? " well , yes .	你真的有希望嗎 ? 」 嗯 , 是的 。
you can't come to a conference like ted and not have hope , can you ?	你不能來參加像ted這樣的會議 , 沒有希望 , 可以嗎 ?
and of course , there's hope . one is this amazing human brain .	當然 , 還有希望 。 一個是令人驚奇的人類大腦 。
and i mean , think of the technologies .	我的意思是 , 想想這些技術 。
and i've just been so thrilled , finally , to come to people talking about compost latrines .	終於 , 我很開心 , 能來到大家談堆肥式廁所 。
it's one of my hobbyhorses .	這是我的其中一個嗜好 。
we just flush all this water down the lavatory , it's terrible .	我們把這些水沖到拉文底下 , 真的很糟糕 。
and then talking about renewable energy desperately important .	接著 , 談到再生能源 , 非常重要 。
do we care about the planet for our children ?	我們關心孩子的星球嗎 ?
how many of us have children or grandchildren , nieces , nephews ?	我們當中有多少人有孩子或孫子孫女 , 姪子 ?
do we care about their future ?	我們關心他們的未來嗎 ?
and if we care about their future , we , as the elite around the world , we can do something about it . we can make choices as to how we live each day .	如果我們關心他們的未來 , 我們身為世界各地的精英 , 我們可以做點什麼 , 我們可以做點什麼 , 來選擇我們每天的生活方式 。
what we buy . what we wear .	我們買什麼 。 我們穿什麼 ?
and choose to make these choices with the question , how will this affect the environment around me ?	選擇用問題來做這些選擇 , 這會如何影響我周遭的環境 ?
how will it affect the life of my child when he or she grows up ?	當他或她長大後 , 它會如何影響我孩子的人生 ?
or my grandchild , or whatever it is .	或是我的孫子 , 不管是什麼 。
so the human brain , coupled with the human heart , and we join hands around the world .	人類的大腦 , 與人類的心相結合 , 我們與世界各地的人交手 。
and that's what ted is helping so well with , and google who help us , and esri are helping us with mapping in gombe national park .	ted就是這麼幫助我們的 , google也幫了我們 , esri也幫我們繪製了gmbe國家公園的地圖 。
all of these technologies we can use .	所有我們能使用的技術 。
now let's link them , and it's beginning to happen , isn't it ?	現在我們把它們連結起來 , 開始發生了 , 不是嗎 ?
you've heard about it this afternoon . it's beginning to happen .	今天下午你已經聽過了 , 已經開始發生了 。
this change , this change . to see change that we must have if we care about the future .	這個改變 , 這個改變 。 如果我們關心未來 , 我們一定要看到改變 。
and the next reason for hope nature is amazingly resilient .	希望大自然的下一個理由 , 就是有驚人的韌性 。
you can take an area that's absolutely destroyed , with time and perhaps some help it can regenerate .	你可以用一個完全被摧毀的區域 , 隨著時間 , 也許有一些可以幫助它再生 。
and an example is the tacare program .	其中一個例子是tacare計畫 。
i told you , where a seemingly dead tree stump if you stop hacking them for firewood , which you don't need to because you have wood lots , then in five years you can have a 30foot tree .	我告訴你 , 看似已死的樹木在哪裡 , 如果你停止砍柴 , 那你就不用因為你有很多木頭 , 然後五年內你就有了30英尺高的樹木 。
and animals , almost on the brink of extinction , can be given a second chance . that's my next book .	而動物 , 幾乎在絕種的邊緣 , 可以有第二次機會 。 這是我的下一本書 。
it's inspiring . and it brings me to my last category of hope , and we've heard about this so much in the last two days: this indomitable human spirit . this determination of people , the resilience of the human spirit , so that people who you would think would be battered by poverty , or disease , or whatever , can pull themselves up out of it , sometimes with a helping hand , and take their part in society , and take their part in changing the world .	這是很鼓舞人心的 。 這也帶到了我最後的希望類別 , 我們在過去的兩天中聽到了這麼多關於這個無止境的人類精神 。 這種人類的決心 , 人類精神的韌性 , 那些你認為會被貧窮、疾病所打擊的人們 , 或其他的 , 可以把他們自己從貧窮中拉出來 , 有時 , 用雙手 , 帶著他們的部分 , 讓他們改變世界 。
and just to think of one or two people out of africa who are just really inspiring .	想想看非洲有一兩個人 , 他們真的很鼓舞人心 。
we could make a very long list , but obviously nelson mandela , emerging from 17 years of hard physical labor , 23 years of imprisonment , with this amazing ability to forgive , so that he could lead his nation out the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath .	我們可以列出很長的清單 , 但顯然是納爾遜•曼德拉 , 從十七年的辛勤勞工 , 23年的監禁 , 帶著很驚人的寬恕能力 , 讓他可以在沒有血腥的情況下 , 領導他的國家脫離種族隔離的惡劣政權 。
ken sarowiwa , in nigeria , who took on the giant oil companies , and although people around the world tried their best , was executed .	奈及利亞的薩羅維瓦採取了大型的石油公司 , 雖然全世界的人都盡力而為 , 但他們卻被處決了 。
people like this are so inspirational .	像這樣的人很鼓舞人心 。
people like this are the role models we need for young africans .	像這樣的人 , 是我們年輕非洲人需要的典範 。
and we need some environmental role models as well , and i've been hearing some of them today .	我們也需要一些環境的榜樣 , 我今天已經聽到了一些模型 。
so i'm really grateful for this opportunity to share this message again , with everyone at ted .	我很感謝這個機會再次和ted的所有人分享這個訊息 。
and i hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things , especially the roots and shoots program .	我希望我們當中有些人可以聚在一起 , 來談談這些事 , 特別是根與芽計畫 。
and just a last word on that the young woman who's running this entire conference center , i met her today .	最後一句話是說 , 主持這整個會議的年輕女子 , 我今天見到她 。
she came up so excited , with her certificate . she was [in] roots and shoots .	她帶著證書 , 非常興奮 。 她的根與芽 。
she was in the leadership in dar es salaam .	她在daresessalaam的領導階層
she said it's helped her to do what she's doing .	她說 , 協助她做她正在做的事 。
and it was very , very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people , when they are empowered , given the opportunity to take action , to make the world a better place , truly are our hope for tomorrow .	我非常興奮地見到她 , 看到一個例子 , 關於年輕人 , 當他們有能力去採取行動 , 讓世界變得更美好 , 真正是我們未來的希望 。
artist dianna cohen shares some tough truths about plastic pollution in the ocean and in our lives and some thoughts on how to free ourselves from the plastic gyre .	藝術家黛安娜•柯恩分享了一些關於塑膠污染的艱難真相 , 和關於如何從塑膠膠漩渦中解脫自我的想法 。
consumerism , global issues , green , mission blue , oceans , plastic	消費主義、全球議題綠色、任務藍色、海洋、塑膠 。
dianna cohen: tough truths about plastic pollution	daannacohen:關於塑膠污染 , 非常困難的真相 。
i'm a visual artist , and i'm also one of the cofounders of the plastic pollution coalition .	我是視覺藝術家 , 我也是塑膠污染聯盟的共同創辦人之一 。
i've been working with plastic bags , which i cut up and sew back together as my primary material for my artwork for the last 20 years .	我一直在和塑膠袋合作 , 把它們剪下來 , 再縫合起來 , 做為我藝術作品的主要材料 , 過去二十年來 。
i turn them into two and threedimensional pieces and sculptures and installations .	我把它們變成二維和三維的片段 , 雕塑和裝置 。
upon working with the plastic , after about the first eight years , some of my work started to fissure and break down into smaller little bits of plastic .	大約八年後 , 我開始研究塑膠 , 我的工作開始分裂 , 分解成更小的塑膠 。
and i thought , " great .	我心想: 「 很好 。
it's ephemeral just like us . "	跟我們一樣是短暫的 。 」
upon educating myself a little further about plastics , i actually realized this was a bad thing .	一旦我對塑膠的了解更深入一點 , 我就了解到這是件壞事 。
it's a bad thing that plastic breaks down into smaller little bits , because it's always still plastic .	不好的是 , 塑膠會分解成小塊 , 因為它一直都是塑膠 。
and what we're finding is that a lot of it is in the marine environment .	我們發現 , 在海洋環境中有許多生物 。
i then , in the last few years , learned about the pacific garbage patch and the gyre .	接著 , 在過去幾年 , 我學到了太平洋垃圾處理器和健身房 。
and my initial reaction and i think this is a lot of people's first reaction to learning about it is , " oh my god !	我最初的反應是很多人對這件事的第一反應是: 「 天啊 !
we've got to go out there and clean this thing up . "	我們得去那裡清理這些東西 。 」
so i actually developed a proposal to go out with a cargo ship and two decommissioned fishing trawlers , a crane , a chipping machine and a coldmolding machine .	所以 , 我開發了一個計畫 , 要帶著貨運船出去 , 和兩艘被退役的捕魚拖網漁船 , 一台起重機 , 一台拖網和一台冷模機 。
and my intention was to go out to the gyre , raise awareness about this issue and begin to pick up the plastic , chip it into little bits and cold mold it into bricks that could potentially be used as building materials in underdeveloped communities .	我的目的是要出去健身房 , 提高對這個議題的認知 , 開始將塑膠切成一塊 , 冷卻成磚塊 , 變成可以用來當作發展中社區的建材的磚塊 。
i began talking with people who actually had been out to the gyre and were studying the plastic problem in the marine environment and upon doing so , i realized actually that cleaning it up would be a very small drop in the bucket relative to how much is being generated every day around the world , and that actually i needed to back up and look at the bigger picture .	我開始跟實際去過健身房的人聊天 , 研究海洋環境中的塑膠問題 , 後來我了解到 , 清理這些塑膠垃圾 , 相較於世界上每天所產生的量 , 將會非常少 。 我需要回頭看更大的照片 。
and the bigger picture is: we need to find a way to turn off the faucet .	更大的情況是:我們需要找到一個方法來關掉水龍頭 。
we need to cut the spigot of singleuse and disposable plastics , which are entering the marine environment every day on a global scale .	我們需要減少單一使用和丟棄的塑膠 , 它們每天都進入海洋環境 。
so in looking at that , i also realized that i was really angry .	看著這個 , 我也了解到我真的很生氣 。
i wasn't just concerned about plastic that you're trying to imagine out in the middle of the pacific ocean of which i have learned there are now 11 gyres , potentially , of plastic in five major oceans in the world .	我不只關心在太平洋中間的塑膠 , 我已經知道有11個塑膠垃圾 , 可能是世界上五大洋的塑膠垃圾 。
it's not just that gyre of plastic that i'm concerned about it's the gyre of plastic in the supermarket .	我不只關心塑膠垃圾 , 它是超市裡的塑膠垃圾回收廠 。
i'd go to the supermarket and all of my food is packaged in plastic .	我會去超市 , 所有的食物都是塑膠包裝 。
all of my beverages are packaged in plastic , even at the health food market .	我所有的飲料都是用塑膠包裝的 , 甚至在健康食品市場也一樣 。
i'm also concerned about the plastic in the refrigerator , and i'm concerned about the plastic and the toxins that leach from plastic into us and into our bodies .	我也關心冰箱裡的塑膠 , 我關心的是從塑膠到我們身體的毒素 。
so i came together with a group of other people who were all looking at this issue , and we created the plastic pollution coalition .	所以我和一群人一起研究這個議題 , 我們成立了塑膠污染聯盟 。
we have many initiatives that we're working on , but some of them are very basic .	我們有很多倡議 , 正在進行中 , 但有些是非常基本的 。
one is: if 80 to 90 percent of what we're finding in the ocean of the marine debris that we're finding in the ocean is plastic , then why don't we call it what it is .	第一:如果我們在海裡發現的海洋碎片中有80%到90%是塑膠 , 那我們就稱之為 「 塑膠 」 。
recycling everybody kind of ends their books about being sustainable and greening with the idea of recycling .	回收所有人的書籍都結束了他們關於永續經營和綠化的書籍 , 用回收的概念 。
you put something in a bin and you don't have to think about it again .	你把東西放進一個桶子裡 , 你就不用再去想了 。
what is the reality of that ?	現實是什麼 ?
in the united states , less than seven percent of our plastics are recycled .	在美國 , 我們的塑膠回收率不到7% 。
and if you really look into it , particularly when it comes to plastic bottles , most of it is only downcycled , or incinerated , or shipped to china .	如果你真的去看它 , 尤其是當談到塑膠瓶時 , 大部分的塑膠瓶只會被循環或燒掉 , 或被運送到中國 。
it is downcycled and turned into lesser things , while a glass bottle can be a glass bottle again or can be used again a plastic bottle can never be a plastic bottle again .	它被循環回收 , 變成更少的東西 , 而玻璃瓶卻可以是玻璃瓶 , 或者再次使用塑膠瓶 , 永遠不會再使用塑膠瓶 。
so this is a big issue for us .	所以這對我們來說是個大問題 。
another thing that we're looking at and asking people to think about is we've added a fourth r onto the front of the " reduce , reuse , recycle , " three r's , and that is refuse .	我們在看的另一件事是 , 請大家想想 , 我們在 「 減少、再利用 」 、 「 回收利用 」 的前面加了一個第四個環 , 那就是拒絕了 。
whenever possible , refuse singleuse and disposable plastics .	盡可能拒絕單獨使用和丟棄的塑膠 。
alternatives exist ; some of them are very oldschool .	替代方案存在 , 有些則是很老式的 。
i myself am now collecting these cool pyrex containers and using those instead of glad and tupperware containers to store food in .	我現在正在收集這些很酷的pyrex容器 , 用它們來取代高興和高興的容器 , 來儲存食物 。
and i know that i am doing a service to myself and my family .	我知道我在為我自己和家人服務 。
it's very easy to pick up a stainlesssteel bottle or a glass bottle , if you're traveling and you've forgotten to bring your stainlesssteel bottle and fill that up with water or filtered water , versus purchasing plastic bottled water .	要拿起一瓶不銹鋼瓶或玻璃瓶很容易 , 如果你要去旅行 , 且你忘了帶瓶裝水或過濾的水 , 和購買塑膠瓶的瓶裝水相比 , 要把塑膠瓶裝滿 。
i guess what i want to say to everybody here and i know that you guys know a lot about this issue is that this is a huge problem in the oceans , but this is a problem that we've created as consumers and we can solve .	我猜我想在這裡對大家說的--我知道你們對這個議題了解很多--在海洋中這是個大問題 , 但這是個我們消費者製造的問題 , 我們可以解決 。
we can solve this by raising awareness of the issue and teaching people to choose alternatives .	我們可以解決這個問題 , 做法是提高人們對問題的意識 , 並教導人們選擇替代方案 。
so whenever possible , to choose alternatives to singleuse plastics .	所以 , 有可能 , 選擇單一使用塑膠的替代方案 。
we can cut the stem tide the stem of this into our oceans and in doing so , save our oceans , save our planet , save ourselves .	我們可以把這些流行病的根源切成海洋 , 這樣就能拯救我們的海洋、拯救我們的地球、拯救我們自己 。
this demo from pattie maes' lab at mit , spearheaded by pranav mistry was the buzz of ted . it's a wearable device with a projector that paves the way for profound interaction with our environment . imagine " minority report " and then some .	這個示範是麻省理工學院的pattiemaes的實驗室 , 由panavmitry發起的 , 他是ted發起的 。 這是一個可穿戴式裝置 , 可以在我們與環境產生深刻互動的投影機 。 想像 「 少數族群報告 」 , 然後有一些 。
demo , design , interface design , technology	展示、設計、界面設計、技術 。
pattie maes and pranav mistry demo sixthsense	派提梅斯和帕納•米爾斯用第六感來示範 「 第六感 」 。
i've been intrigued by this question of whether we could evolve or develop a sixth sense a sense that would give us seamless access and easy access to metainformation or information that may exist somewhere that may be relevant to help us make the right decision about whatever it is that we're coming across .	我一直對這個問題很感興趣 , 這個問題是 , 我們能否進化或發展出第六感 , 能否讓我們無縫地取得資訊 , 且很容易取得資訊 , 或存在存在的某個地方 , 來協助我們做出正確的決定 , 來決定我們現在所面對的一切 。
and some of you may argue , well , don't today's cell phones do that already ?	有些人可能會說 , 現今的手機已經做到了嗎 ?
but i would say no .	但我會拒絕 。
when you meet someone here at ted and this is the top networking place , of course , of the year you don't shake somebody's hand and then say , " can you hold on for a moment while i take out my phone and google you ? "	當你在ted見到某人時 , 當然 , 這是最棒的網路平台 , 你不會搖某人的手 , 然後說: 「 你能停下來一會兒嗎 ? 我拿出手機和google搜尋你 ? 」
or when you go to the supermarket and you're standing there in that huge aisle of different types of toilet papers , you don't take out your cell phone , and open a browser , and go to a website to try to decide which of these different toilet papers is the most ecologically responsible purchase to make .	或當你去超級市場 , 站在那裏 , 站在那廣大的馬桶裡 , 你不拿出你的手機 , 打開瀏覽器 , 上一個網站 , 試著決定這些不同的馬桶文件中哪一個是最環保的購買方式 。
so we don't really have easy access to all this relevant information that can just help us make optimal decisions about what to do next and what actions to take .	所以 , 我們無法輕易取得這些相關資訊 , 來協助我們做出最佳決策 , 決定接下來要做什麼 , 以及要採取什麼行動 。
and so my research group at the media lab has been developing a series of inventions to give us access to this information in a sort of easy way , without requiring that the user changes any of their behavior .	所以 , 我在媒體實驗室的研究團隊 , 已經在開發一系列的發明 , 讓我們能用一種簡單的方式取得這些資訊 , 卻不用要求使用者改變他們的行為 。
and i'm here to unveil our latest effort , and most successful effort so far , which is still very much a work in process .	我來這裡是要揭露我們最近的努力 , 到目前為止 , 最成功的努力仍然在進行中 。
i'm actually wearing the device right now and we've sort of cobbled it together with components that are off the shelf and that , by the way , only cost 350 dollars at this point in time .	其實我現在正穿著這個裝置 , 我們已經將它與架上的零件結合 , 順道一提 , 目前只有350美元的成本 。
i'm wearing a camera , just a simple webcam , a portable , batterypowered projection system with a little mirror .	我戴著一台攝影機 , 一個簡單的網絡攝影機 , 一個可攜式 , 電池動力的投影系統 , 裡面有一面鏡子 。
these components communicate to my cell phone in my pocket which acts as the communication and computation device .	這些元件在我的口袋裡 , 與我的手機溝通 , 扮演著溝通和計算裝置的角色 。
and in the video here we see my student pranav mistry , who's really the genius who's been implementing and designing this whole system .	在影片中 , 我們看到我的學生帕納•密特利 , 他真的是執行和設計這整個系統的天才 。
and we see how this system lets him walk up to any surface and start using his hands to interact with the information that is projected in front of him .	我們看到這個系統讓他走到任何平面上 , 開始用他的手和投影在他面前的資訊進行互動 。
the system tracks the four significant fingers .	這個系統追蹤這四個重要的手指 。
in this case , he's wearing simple marker caps that you may recognize .	在這個例子中 , 他戴著你可能認得的簡單標記帽子 。
but if you want a more stylish version you could also paint your nails in different colors .	但如果你想要一個比較時髦的版本你也可以用不同顏色的指甲油漆上指甲
and the camera basically tracks these four fingers and recognizes any gestures that he's making so he can just go to , for example , a map of long beach , zoom in and out , etc .	攝影機基本上會追蹤這四隻手指 , 並且辨識出他製造的任何手勢 , 例如 , 他可以直接去看長灘的地圖 , 放大和縮小等等 。
the system also recognizes iconic gestures such as the " take a picture " gesture , and then takes a picture of whatever is in front of you .	系統也能辨識出具代表性的手勢 , 比如 「 拍一張照片 」 的手勢 , 接著拍下你面前的任何東西的照片 。
and when he then walks back to the media lab , he can just go up to any wall and project all the pictures that he's taken , sort through them and organize them , and resize them , etc . , again using all natural gestures .	當他走回媒體實驗室時 , 他可以走到任何一面牆上 , 把他所拍攝的照片投影出來 , 把它們組織起來 , 再將它們放大 , 再使用自然的手勢 。
so , some of you most likely were here two years ago and saw the demo by jeff han or some of you may think , " well , doesn't this look like the microsoft surface table ? "	兩年前 , 在座有些人可能有來這裡看過jeffhan的示範 , 有些人可能會想: 「 這不是看起來像微軟的平面桌子嗎 ? 」
and yes , you also interact using natural gestures , both hands , etc .	是的 , 你也用自然的手勢互動 , 雙手等等 。
but the difference here is that you can use any surface , you can walk to up to any surface , including your hand if nothing else is available and interact with this projected data .	但這裡的差別在於 , 你可以用任何表面 , 你可以走到任何表面 , 包括你的手 , 如果沒有其他東西可以用 , 和這些投影的資料互動 。
the device is completely portable , and can be . . .	這個裝置是完全可攜式的 , 有可能是......
so one important difference is that it's totally mobile .	其中一個重要的差異是 , 它是完全行動的 。
another even more important difference is that in mass production this would not cost more tomorrow than today's cell phones and would actually not sort of be a bigger packaging could look a lot more stylish than this version that i'm wearing around my neck .	另外一個更重要的差異是 , 在大量生產的過程中 , 這種成本不會比現在的手機還要高 , 實際上 , 包裝並不會比我脖子上戴的版本還要大很多 。
but other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as tom cruise in " minority report , " the reason why we're really excited about this device is that it really can act as one of these sixthsense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you .	但除了讓你們之外 , 在 「 少數報告 」 中看來像湯姆•克魯斯那樣酷炫的幻想之外 , 我們對這個裝置感到非常興奮的原因是它真的可以作為這六感裝置中的一個 , 它可以給你有關你面前的一切的資訊 。
so we see pranav here going into the supermarket and he's shopping for some paper towels .	我們看到panav走進超市 , 他在買一些紙巾 。
and , as he picks up a product the system can recognize the product that he's picking up , using either image recognition or marker technology , and give him the green light or an orange light .	當他拿起一個產品時 , 系統可以辨識出他拿起的產品 , 使用影像辨識或標記技術 , 給他綠燈或橘燈 。
he can ask for additional information .	他可以尋求額外的資訊 。
so this particular choice here is a particularly good choice , given his personal criteria .	所以 , 在他的個人標準下 , 這個選擇是特別好的選擇 。
some of you may want the toilet paper with the most bleach in it rather than the most ecologicallyresponsible choice .	在座有些人可能會想要用最多的漂白廁所紙 , 而不是最環保的選擇 。
if he picks up a book in the bookstore , he can get an amazon rating it gets projected right on the cover of the book .	如果他在書店裡拿起一本書 , 他就能得到亞馬遜的評分 , 專注在書的封面上 。
this is juan's book , our previous speaker , which gets a great rating , by the way , at amazon .	這是juan的書 , 我們之前的講者 , 順道一提 , 在亞馬遜得到了很棒的評分 。
and so , pranav turns the page of the book and can then see additional information about the book reader comments , maybe sort of information by his favorite critic , etc .	所以 , 帕納翻轉了這本書的頁面 , 再看看書讀者留言的額外資訊 , 也許是他最喜歡的評論家所傳達的資訊等等 。
if he turns to a particular page he finds an annotation by maybe an expert of a friend of ours that gives him a little bit of additional information about whatever is on that particular page .	如果他翻到某個特定的頁面 , 他會找到我們朋友的一個註解 , 給他關於那特定頁面上的任何東西的額外資訊 。
reading the newspaper it never has to be outdated .	閱讀報紙──它永遠不需要過時 。
you can get video annotations of the event that you're reading about you can get the latest sports scores etc .	你可以得到你正在閱讀的事件事件的影片註解 , 你可以得到最新的運動比賽分數等等 。
this is a more controversial one .	這個比較有爭議性 。
as you interact with someone at ted , maybe you can see a word cloud of the tags , the words that are associated with that person in their blog and personal web pages .	當你在ted與某人互動時 , 也許你能看到一個字雲的標籤 , 一個與該人在部落格和個人網頁中聯繫在一起的字 。
in this case , the student is interested in cameras , etc .	在這個案例中 , 學生對照相機感興趣 , 等等 。
on your way to the airport , if you pick up your boarding pass , it can tell you that your flight is delayed , that the gate has changed , etc .	在你去機場的路上 , 如果你拿起你的登機證 , 它可以告訴你 , 你的航班延遲了 , 登機門也改變了 , 諸如此類 。
and , if you need to know what the current time is it's as simple as drawing a watch on your arm .	如果你需要知道目前的狀況 , 就跟在你的手臂上畫一個手錶一樣簡單 。
so that's where we're at so far in developing this sixth sense that would give us seamless access to all this relevant information about the things that we may come across .	這就是我們目前在發展第六感時所處的狀況 , 能讓我們取得關於我們可能遇到的事物的所有相關資訊 。
my student pranav , who's really , like i said , the genius behind this .	我的學生帕納 , 像我說的 , 在這背後的天才 。
he does deserve a lot of applause because i don't think he's slept much in the last three months , actually .	他確實應該得到很多掌聲因為我不認為他在過去三個月睡得太多
and his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either .	他的女朋友大概也對他不太滿意 。
but it's not perfect yet , it's very much a work in progress .	但它還不是完美的 , 它是一項進展 。
and who knows , maybe in another 10 years we'll be here with the ultimate sixth sense brain implant .	誰知道 , 或許再過十年 , 我們會帶著第六感的大腦植入到這裡 。
phyllis rodriguez and aicha elwafi have a powerful friendship born of unthinkable loss . rodriguez' son was killed in the world trade center attacks on september 11 , 2001 ; elwafi's son zacarias moussaoui was convicted of a role in those attacks and is serving a life sentence . in hoping to find peace , these two moms have come to understand and respect one another .	在2001年9月11日 , 埃及的兒子因為無法想像的損失而生成了一場強而有力的友誼關係 。 rodriguez的兒子在世界貿易中心被殺害 ; 2001年9月11日 ; elwafi的兒子zacariasmoussaoui被定罪 , 在那些攻擊中 , 並在人生中發動一句話 。 希望能找到和平 , 這兩位媽媽媽了解了另一件事 。
culture , global issues , politics	文化、全球議題、政治 。
9/11 healing: the mothers who found forgiveness , friendship	9/11療癒:那些找到原諒、友誼的母親 。
phyllis rodriguez: we are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship .	今天我們來到這裡 , 是因為我們有大多數人所認為的不尋常的友誼 。
and yet , it feels natural to us now .	但 , 現在 , 我們覺得很自然 。
i first learned that my son had been in the world trade center on the morning of september 11th , 2001 .	我第一次了解到 , 我兒子在世界貿易中心在2001年9月11日的早上 ,
we didn't know if he had perished yet until 36 hours later .	我們不知道他是否死了 , 直到36小時後 。
at the time , we knew that it was political .	當時 , 我們知道那是政治性的 。
we were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son my husband , orlando , and i and our family .	我們很害怕我們的國家會以我們的兒子之名來做這件事──我的丈夫 , 奧蘭多 , 我和我的家人 。
and when i saw it and yet , through the shock , the terrible shock , and the terrible explosion in our lives , literally , we were not vengeful .	當我看到它時 , 卻沒看到它 , 衝擊時 , 可怕的震驚 , 和我們生活中可怕的爆炸 , 真的 , 我們沒有復仇 。
and a couple of weeks later when zacarias moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism , and the u . s . government called for a death penalty for him , if convicted , my husband and i spoke out in opposition to that , publicly .	幾週後當zacariasmoussaoui被控告六項恐怖主義的陰謀時 , 美國政府要求對他判死刑 , 如果被判死刑 , 我和我的丈夫在公開場合發表言論 。
through that and through human rights groups , we were brought together with several other victims' families .	透過那樣和透過人權團體 , 我們和許多其他受害者的家庭聚在一起 。
when i saw aicha in the media , coming over when her son was indicted , and i thought , " what a brave woman .	當我在媒體上看到aicha , 她兒子被指控 , 我心想: 「 真是個勇敢的女人 。
someday i want to meet that woman when i'm stronger . "	有一天當我強壯時 , 我想要和那位女士見面 。 」
i was still in deep grief ; i knew i didn't have the strength .	我還在深深的悲傷中 , 我知道我沒有力量 。
i knew i would find her someday , or we would find each other .	我知道有一天我會找到她 , 或我們會找到彼此 。
because , when people heard that my son was a victim , i got immediate sympathy .	因為 , 當人們聽到我兒子是受害者時 , 我立即有同情心 。
but when people learned what her son was accused of , she didn't get that sympathy .	但當人們知道她的兒子被指控時 , 她沒有得到那樣的同情 。
but her suffering is equal to mine .	但她的苦難和我一樣 。
so we met in november 2002 , and aicha will now tell you how that came about .	所以 , 我們在2002年11月見面 , 艾瑞卡將告訴你們這如何發生 。
aicha elwafi: good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen .	aichaelwafi:午安 , 各位先生女士 。
i am the mother of zacarias moussaoui .	我是zacariasmousoui的母親 。
and i asked the organization of human rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims .	我請人權組織讓我接觸受害者的父母 。
so they introduced me to five families .	他們把我介紹給五個家庭 。
and i saw phyllis , and i watched her .	我看到了phyllis , 我看著她 。
she was the only mother in the group .	她是群體中唯一的母親 。
the others were brothers , sisters .	其他人是兄弟姐妹 。
and i saw in her eyes that she was a mother , just like me .	我在她的眼中看到她是母親 , 就像我一樣 。
i suffered a lot as a mother .	身為母親 , 我常常遭受這種苦惱 。
i was married when i was 14 .	我十四歲時結婚了 。
i lost a child when i was 15 , a second child when i was 16 .	我十五歲時失去了一個孩子 , 我十六歲時失去了第二個孩子 。
so the story with zacarias was too much really .	所以 , 扎卡利亞的故事實在太多了 。
and i still suffer , because my son is like he's buried alive .	我仍然很苦惱 , 因為我兒子就像活著一樣 。
i know she really cried for her son .	我知道她真的為她兒子哭泣 。
but she knows where he is .	但她知道他在哪裡 。
my son , i don't know where he is .	我的兒子 , 我不知道他在哪裡 。
i don't know if he's alive . i don't know if he's tortured .	我不知道他是否還活著 。 我不知道他是否被虐待 。
i don't know what happened to him .	我不知道他發生了什麼事 。
so that's why i decided to tell my story , so that my suffering is something positive for other women .	這就是為什麼我決定說我的故事 , 這樣我的苦難對其他女性來說是很正面的 。
for all the women , all the mothers that give life , you can give back , you can change .	對所有的女人 , 所有賦予生命的母親 , 你可以給予她們 , 你可以改變 。
it's up to us women , because we are women , because we love our children .	取決於我們女性 , 因為我們是女性 , 因為我們愛我們的孩子 。
we must be handinhand and do something together .	我們必須要親手合作 , 一起做點什麼 。
it's not against women , it's for us , for us women , for our children .	不是反對女性 , 而是針對我們 , 對我們女人 , 對我們的孩子 。
i talk against violence , against terrorism .	我反對暴力 , 反對恐怖主義 。
i go to schools to talk to young , muslim girls so they don't accept to be married against their will very young .	我去學校跟年輕的穆斯林女孩說話 , 這樣她們就不接受和她們的意願結婚 。
so if i can save one of the young girls , and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as i did , well this is something good .	所以如果我能拯救其中一位年輕女孩 , 避免她們和我一樣結婚、受苦 , 嗯 , 這是好事 。
this is why i'm here in front of you .	這就是我站在你們面前的原因 。
pr: i would like to say that i have learned so much from aicha , starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members which was a very private meeting with security , because it was november 2002 , and , frankly , we were afraid of the superpatriotism of that time in the country those of us family members .	pr:我想說我從aicha學到了這麼多東西 , 從那天開始 , 我們和其他的家庭成員第一次見面 , 這是非常私人的會議 , 因為當時是2002年11月 , 坦白說 , 我們害怕當時國家的超級愛滋病 。 我們這些家庭成員 。
but we were all so nervous .	但我們都好緊張 。
" why does she want to meet us ? "	「 她為什麼想要和我們見面 ? 」
and then she was nervous .	然後她緊張了 。
" why did we want to meet her ? "	「 為什麼我們要和她見面 ? 」
what did we want from each other ?	我們想從彼此身上得到什麼 ?
before we knew each others' names , or anything , we had embraced and wept .	在我們知道彼此的名字之前 , 我們已經欣然接受和哭泣 。
then we sat in a circle with support , with help , from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation .	然後我們圍坐在一個圈子裡 , 帶著支援 , 提供協助 , 來自這種和解的人們 。
and aicha started , and she said , " i don't know if my son is guilty or innocent , but i want to tell you how sorry i am for what happened to your families .	aicha開始了 , 她說: 「 我不知道我的兒子是有罪還是無辜 , 但我想告訴你們 , 我對你們家人的遭遇感到多麼的抱歉 。
i know what it is to suffer , and i feel that if there is a crime , a person should be tried fairly and punished . "	我知道苦難是怎麼一回事 , 我覺得如果有犯罪 , 一個人應該公平審判和懲罰 。 」
but she reached out to us in that way , and it was , i'd like to say , it was an icebreaker .	但她以那種方式向我們求助 , 那就是 , 我想要說 , 那是一種破冰的破冰機 。
and what happened then is we all told our stories , and we all connected as human beings .	接下來發生的事是 , 我們都訴說自己的故事 , 身為人類 , 我們都連結在一起 。
by the end of the afternoon it was about three hours after lunch we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever .	在午餐後 , 午餐後的三小時 , 我們覺得好像彼此永遠認識了 。
now what i learned from her , is a woman , not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then , and what was being done to her son , but the life she's had .	我從她身上學到的 , 是一位女士 , 不單是她在當下這麼慷慨的環境下 , 和當時的狀況 , 和當時的狀況 , 還有她兒子的經歷 , 還有她的生活 。
i never had met someone with such a hard life , from such a totally different culture and environment from my own .	我從來沒有見過這麼艱苦的生活 , 從一個完全不同的文化和環境 。
and i feel that we have a special connection , which i value very much .	我覺得我們有一種特殊的連結 , 我非常重視它 。
and i think it's all about being afraid of the other , but making that step and then realizing , " hey , this wasn't so hard .	我想這一切都是因為害怕對方 , 但要踏出這一步 , 然後了解: 「 嘿 , 這不是那麼難 。
who else can i meet that i don't know , or that i'm so different from ? "	我還能和誰見面 , 我不知道 , 或我跟誰不同 ? 」
so , aicha , do you have a couple of words for conclusion ?	所以 , aicha , 你有幾個字可以得出結論嗎 ?
because our time is up .	因為我們的時間到了 。
aw: i wanted to say that we have to try to know other people , the other .	阿波羅:我想說 , 我們必須試著去認識其他人 , 另外一個 。
you have to be generous , and your hearts must be generous , your mind must be generous .	你得要很慷慨 , 你的心也要很慷慨 , 你的心也要很慷慨 。
you must be tolerant .	你一定要被包容 。
you have to fight against violence .	你必須對抗暴力 。
and i hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other .	我希望有一天 , 我們都會生活在和平中 , 彼此尊重 。
this is what i wanted to say .	這就是我想說的 。
too much of the world lacks access to clean drinking water . engineer michael pritchard did something about it inventing the portable lifesaver filter , which can make the most revolting water drinkable in seconds . an amazing demo from tedglobal 2009 .	世界太多地方缺乏乾淨的飲用水 。 工程師麥可.普立查做了一些事情 , 就是發明可攜帶的生物安全濾鏡 , 讓水可以在幾秒鐘內被飲用 。 一個驚人的示範 , 來自2009年的tedglobal 。
business , demo , design , global issues , invention , technology , water	商業、示範、設計、全球議題、發明、科技、水等等 。
michael pritchard's water filter turns filthy water drinkable	麥可普利查的水過濾器變成了骯髒的飲用水 。
i'd like to talk about a couple of things today .	今天我要來談談幾件事 。
the first thing is water .	第一件事是水 。
now i see you've all been enjoying the water that's been provided for you here at the conference , over the past couple of days .	現在我看到你們都享受過在這個會議提供給你們的水在過去的幾天 。
and i'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source .	我相信你們會覺得這是來自安全來源 。
but what if it wasn't ?	但如果不是這樣呢 ?
what if it was from a source like this ?	如果是來自這樣的一個來源呢 ?
then statistics would actually say that half of you would now be suffering with diarrhea .	接著 , 統計數字會說 , 在座有一半的人現在都患有腹瀉 。
i talked a lot in the past about statistics , and the provision of safe drinking water for all .	過去我常常談到統計學 , 以及所有人都可以喝到安全的飲用水 。
but they just don't seem to get through .	但他們似乎無法克服 。
and i think i've worked out why .	我想我已經想出為什麼了 。
it's because , using current thinking , the scale of the problem just seems too huge to contemplate solving .	那是因為 , 利用目前的思考 , 問題的規模似乎太大了 , 無法去思考解決 。
so we just switch off: us , governments and aid agencies .	所以我們就關掉:我們、政府 , 和援助機構 。
well , today , i'd like to show you that through thinking differently , the problem has been solved .	今天 , 我想讓大家看一下 , 透過不同的思考方式 , 問題已經解決了 。
by the way , since i've been speaking , another 13 , 000 people around the world are suffering now with diarrhea .	順道一提 , 從我開始演講到現在 , 全世界有一萬三千人患有腹瀉 。
and four children have just died .	四個孩子剛剛死去 。
i invented lifesaver bottle because i got angry .	我發明了lifesaverver濾水瓶 , 因為我很生氣 。
i , like most of you , was sitting down , the day after christmas in 2004 , when i was watching the devastating news of the asian tsunami as it rolled in , playing out on tv .	我和你們大多數人一樣 , 在2004年聖誕節後的那一天 , 當我在看亞洲海嘯的毀滅性新聞時 , 我坐下來 , 在電視上播放 。
the days and weeks that followed , people fleeing to the hills , being forced to drink contaminated water or face death .	接下來的日子和幾週 , 人們逃到山丘上 , 被迫喝下被污染的水 , 或面對死亡 。
that really stuck with me .	這真的困擾了我 。
then , a few months later , hurricane katrina slammed into the side of america .	幾個月後 , 卡崔娜颶風襲擊了美國的一邊 。
" okay , " i thought , " here's a first world country , let's see what they can do . "	「 好吧 , 」 我想: 「 這是第一個世界國家 , 咱們來看看他們能做什麼 。 」
do you know it took five days to get water to the superdome ?	你知道要花五天才能把水送到超級大眾嗎 ?
people were shooting each other on the streets for tv sets and water .	人們在街上互相射殺電視節目和水 。
that's when i decided i had to do something .	就在那時 , 我決定要做點什麼 。
now i spent a lot of time in my garage , over the next weeks and months , and also in my kitchen much to the dismay of my wife .	我花了很多時間在我的車庫裡 , 接下來的幾週、幾個月 , 還有在廚房裡 , 讓我老婆很沮喪 。
however , after a few failed prototypes , i finally came up with this , the lifesaver bottle .	然而 , 在一些失敗的原型之後 , 我終於想出了這個 , lifsaver的瓶子 。
okay , now for the science bit .	好 , 現在來談談科學 。
before lifesaver , the best hand filters were only capable of filtering down to about 200 nanometers .	在lissaver之前 , 最好的手工過濾器只能過濾200奈米 。
the smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers .	最小的細菌大約是200奈米 。
so a 200nanometer bacteria is going to get through a 200nanometer hole .	所以 , 一個200奈米細菌將會穿越200奈米大的洞 。
the smallest virus , on the other hand , is about 25 nanometers .	另一方面 , 最小的病毒大約是25奈米 。
so that's definitely going to get through those 200 nanometer holes .	這一定會貫穿200奈米大的洞 。
lifesaver pores are 15 nanometers .	lisaver濾水孔是15奈米 。
so nothing is getting through .	所以 , 沒有什麼能撐過 。
okay , i'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration .	好 , 我要給你們一些示範 。
would you like to see that ?	你想看到嗎 ?
i spent all the time setting this up , so i guess i should .	我花了很多時間設定這個 , 所以我想我應該這麼做 。
we're in the fine city of oxford .	我們在牛津的美好城市裡 。
so someone's done that up .	有人這麼做了 。
fine city of oxford , so what i've done is i've gone and got some water from the river cherwell , and the river thames , that flow through here . and this is the water .	美好的牛津城市 , 所以我做的是 , 我已經從車臣那裡取了一些水 , 河流的泰姆斯河 , 流過這裡 。 這就是水 。
but i got to thinking , you know , if we were in the middle of a flood zone in bangladesh , the water wouldn't look like this .	但我當時想 , 你知道 , 如果我們在孟加拉的洪水區中間 , 水不會像這樣 。
so i've gone and got some stuff to add into it .	所以我已經拿了一些東西來加進去 。
and this is from my pond .	這是我池塘的照片 。
have a smell of that , mister cameraman .	聞一下吧 , 攝影師先生
we're just going to pour that in there .	我們就把它倒進去 。
michael pritchard: okay . we've got some runoff from a sewage plant farm .	麥可.普立查:好的 , 我們有一些從污水處理廠裡跑出來的水流 。
so i'm just going to put that in there .	所以我就把它放進去 。
put that in there . there we go .	把它放進去 , 就這樣 。
and some other bits and pieces , chuck that in there .	還有一些其他的零件和碎片 , 把它丟進去 。
and i've got a gift here from a friend of mine's rabbit .	我這裡有一份我朋友的兔子送來的禮物 。
so we're just going to put that in there as well .	我們也要把它放進去 。
the lifesaver bottle works really simply .	lissaverververver濾水瓶真的很簡單 。
you just scoop the water up .	你只要把水往上灑 。
today i'm going to use a jug just to show you all . let's get a bit of that poo in there .	今天我要用一個罐子來展示給你們看 。 讓我們把那個便便便便便放進去 。
that's not dirty enough . let's just stir that up a little bit .	那還不夠髒 。 我們來稍微攪拌一下 。
okay , so i'm going to take this really filthy water , and put it in here . do you want a drink yet ?	好 , 現在我要把這個很骯髒的水放進來 。 你還想喝杯嗎 ?
okay . there we go .	好了 , 開始了 。
give it a few pumps . okay ?	給它一些幫浦 。 好嗎 ?
that's all that's necessary .	這些都是必要的 。
now as soon as i pop the teat , sterile drinking water is going to come out .	一旦我跳出這個茶 , 無菌的飲用水就會流出來 。
i've got to be quick . okay , ready ?	我必須要很快 。 好 , 準備好了嗎 ?
there we go . mind the electrics .	來了 , 電線 。
that is safe , sterile drinking water .	這是安全的 , 無菌的飲用水 。
there you go chris .	這裡是克里斯 。
what's it taste of ?	它的味道是什麼 ?
let's see chris's program throughout the rest of the show . okay ?	咱們來看看克里斯的節目的其他部分 。 好嗎 ?
okay . lifesaver bottle is used by thousands of people around the world .	好 , 世界各地有數千人使用lifesaver濾水瓶 。
it'll last for 6 , 000 liters .	它能持續6 , 000公升 。
and when it's expired , using failsafe technology , the system will shut off , protecting the user .	當它過期時 , 使用失敗安全技術 , 系統就會關閉 , 保護使用者 。
pop the cartridge out . pop a new one in .	跑出去 , 跑出一個新的 。
it's good for another 6 , 000 liters .	再過6000公升就好了 。
so let's look at the applications .	咱們來看看這項應用 。
traditionally , in a crisis , what do we do ?	傳統上 , 在危機中 , 我們該怎麼做 ?
then , after a few weeks , we set up camps .	然後 , 幾個禮拜後 , 我們成立了營地 。
and people are forced to come into the camps to get their safe drinking water .	人們被迫來到難民營 , 取得他們安全的飲用水 。
what happens when 20 , 000 people congregate in a camp ?	當兩萬人聚集在一個難民營會發生什麼事 ?
diseases spread . more resources are required .	疾病會散播開來 , 需要更多的資源 。
the problem just becomes selfperpetuating .	問題變成了自我延續 。
but by thinking differently , and shipping these , people can stay put .	但透過不同的思考和運送這些東西 , 人們就可以留在原地 。
they can make their own sterile drinking water , and start to get on with rebuilding their homes and their lives .	他們可以自行製造無菌飲用水 , 開始重建他們的家園和生活 。
now , it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work .	這不需要天然災害才行 。
using the old thinking , of national infrastructure and pipe work , is too expensive .	用舊的想法 , 國家基礎建設和管道的工作實在太昂貴了 。
when you run the numbers on a calculator , you run out of noughts .	當你用計算機運算這些數字時 , 你就用完了 。
so here is the " thinking different " bit .	這就是 「 思考不同 」 的位元 。
instead of shipping water , and using manmade processes to do it , let's use mother nature . she's got a fantastic system .	與其運送水和使用人造的程序 , 不如使用大自然 。 她有一個很棒的系統 。
she picks the water up from there , desalinates it , for free , transports it over there , and dumps it onto the mountains , rivers , and streams .	她從那裡取水 , 免費將水分解 , 將它運送到那邊 , 將它丟到山上、河流和溪流上 。
and where do people live ? near water .	人們住在哪裡 ? 靠近水源的地方 。
all we've go to do is make it sterile . how do we do that ?	我們要做的就是讓它不成熟 。 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , we could use the lifesaver bottle .	我們可以用lifesaver濾水瓶 。
or we could use one of these .	或者 , 我們可以用其中一種 。
the same technology , in a jerry can .	同樣的技術 , 在jerry罐子裡 。
this will process 25 , 000 liters of water ; that's good enough for a family of four , for three years .	這將會處理2萬5千公升的水 , 這足夠給四個家庭 , 三年的時間 。
and how much does it cost ?	它的成本是多少 ?
about half a cent a day to run .	一天大概半分錢 。
so , by thinking differently , and processing water at the point of use , mothers and children no longer have to walk four hours a day to collect their water .	所以 , 用不同的方式思考 , 用不同的方式處理水 , 母親和孩子不再需要每天四小時去收集他們的水 。
they can get it from a source nearby .	他們可以從附近的來源取得它 。
so with just eight billion dollars , we can hit the millennium goal's target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water .	只要八十億美元 , 我們就能達到千禧目標的目標 , 減少人們的數量 , 卻無法取得安全的飲用水 。
to put that into context , the u . k . government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid .	為了說明這一點 , 英國政府每年花了大約120億英鎊在外國援助上 。
but why stop there ?	但為什麼要停在這裡 ?
with 20 billion dollars , everyone can have access to safe drinking water .	只要兩百億美金 , 每個人都能取得安全的飲用水 。
so the threeandahalf billion people that suffer every year as a result , and the two million kids that die every year , will live .	結果是 , 每年都有三十五億人受苦 , 每年有兩百萬個孩子死去 , 將會活下來 。
paddy ashdown claims that we are living in a moment in history where power is changing in ways it never has before . in a spellbinding talk at tedxbrussels he outlines the three major global shifts that he sees coming .	帕迪阿什丹聲稱我們正生活在歷史上的一刻 , 權力正在改變 , 以往從未有過的方式改變著 。 在一場拼命的tedxbrussel演說中 , 他突顯了他所看到的三大全球轉變 。
foreign policy , global issues , politics , world cultures	外交政策、全球議題、政治、世界文化 。
paddy ashdown: the global power shift	帕迪•阿shdown:全球權力轉移 。
there's a poem written by a very famous english poet at the end of the 19th century .	在十九世紀末 , 有一首詩是由一位非常有名的英國詩人所寫的 。
it was said to echo in churchill's brain in the 1930s .	在1930年代 , 教堂的大腦裡 , 有人說它是回音 。
and the poem goes: " on the idle hill of summer , lazy with the flow of streams , hark i hear a distant drummer , drumming like a sound in dreams , far and near and low and louder on the roads of earth go by , dear to friend and food to powder , soldiers marching , soon to die . "	這首詩寫道: 「 夏日的伊德爾山上 , 躺在溪流之中 , 我聽到一個遙遠的鼓聲 , 像在夢中 , 遠處、近處、低聲 , 和大聲地呼喊著: 「 親愛的朋友和食物到粉末 , 士兵步行 , 很快就會死亡 。 」
those who are interested in poetry , the poem is " a shropshire lad " written by a . e . housman .	那些對詩歌感興趣的人 , 這首詩的作者是《shropshirelad》 , 作者是e.housman 。
but what housman understood , and you hear it in the symphonies of nielsen too , was that the long , hot , silvan summers of stability of the 19th century were coming to a close , and that we were about to move into one of those terrifying periods of history when power changes .	但是 , 休斯曼所了解到的 , 你也在尼爾森交響曲中聽過 , 尼爾森的交響曲中 , 十九世紀的長期、熱、天氣的夏天也在緊密的接近中 , 我們即將進入歷史上那些恐怖的時期 , 當權力改變時 , 那些恐怖的時期 。
and these are always periods , ladies and gentlemen , accompanied by turbulence , and all too often by blood .	這些時期總是 , 各位先生女士 , 伴隨著亂流 , 常常都是血 。
and my message for you is that i believe we are condemned , if you like , to live at just one of those moments in history when the gimbals upon which the established order of power is beginning to change and the new look of the world , the new powers that exist in the world , are beginning to take form .	我給你們的訊息是 , 我相信我們被譴責了 , 如果你願意 , 在歷史上只活在歷史上的那些時刻 , 當既有的秩序開始改變 , 新世界的新外貌 , 世上存在的新勢力開始形成時 。
and these are and we see it very clearly today nearly always highly turbulent times , highly difficult times , and all too often very bloody times .	這些就是我們今天所看到的非常明顯的 , 幾乎總是非常混亂的時代 , 非常難熬的時代 , 甚至是非常血腥的時代 。
by the way , it happens about once every century .	順道一提 , 每一世紀都會發生一次 。
you might argue that the last time it happened and that's what housman felt coming and what churchill felt too was that when power passed from the old nations , the old powers of europe , across the atlantic to the new emerging power of the united states of america the beginning of the american century .	你可能會爭辯說 , 上次發生時 , 主教會的感受是這樣的 , 教堂的感受也是如此 , 當權力從古老的國家 , 歐洲的舊勢力通過 , 橫越大西洋 , 到美國的新興勢力 , 美國在世紀初 。
and of course , into the vacuum where the tooold european powers used to be were played the two bloody catastrophes of the last century the one in the first part and the one in the second part: the two great world wars .	當然 , 在那個時候歐洲人的權力會被用在上個世紀發生兩場血腥的大災難中 , 第二個是:兩場大戰 。
mao zedong used to refer to them as the european civil wars , and it's probably a more accurate way of describing them .	毛澤東曾經稱他們為歐洲內戰 , 這可能是一種更正確的描述方式 。
well , ladies and gentlemen , we live at one of those times .	各位先生女士 , 我們住在其中一個時代 。
but for us , i want to talk about three factors today .	但對我們來說 , 我今天要談三個因素 。
and the first of these , the first two of these , is about a shift in power .	第一種 , 第一兩種 , 差不多是權力的轉變 。
and the second is about some new dimension which i want to refer to , which has never quite happened in the way it's happening now .	第二個是關於我要提到的一個新的維度 , 這在現在從來沒有發生過 。
but let's talk about the shifts of power that are occurring to the world .	但讓我們來談談權力正在發生的轉變 ,
and what is happening today is , in one sense , frightening because it's never happened before .	今天所發生的事 , 在某種意義上 , 很可怕 , 因為它從來沒有發生過 。
we have seen lateral shifts of power the power of greece passed to rome and the power shifts that occurred during the european civilizations but we are seeing something slightly different .	我們已經看到過橫向的權力轉移 , 希臘轉移到羅馬 , 以及在歐洲文明中發生的權力轉移 , 但我們看到有些微的不同 。
for power is not just moving laterally from nation to nation .	因為權力不僅僅是從國家移轉到國家 。
it's also moving vertically .	它也垂直移動 。
what's happening today is that the power that was encased , held to accountability , held to the rule of law , within the institution of the nation state has now migrated in very large measure onto the global stage .	今日的情況是 , 承受責任的權力 , 遵守法律規則的權力 , 在國家的制度之內 , 已經在全球的舞台上大量移民 。
the globalization of power we talk about the globalization of markets , but actually it's the globalization of real power .	全球化的權力 , 我們談論的是市場全球化 , 但實際上 , 它是全球化的真正權力 。
and where , at the nation state level that power is held to accountability subject to the rule of law , on the international stage it is not .	在國家的層面上 , 負責人的權力會受到法律的影響 , 而不是國際舞台上的權力 。
the international stage and the global stage where power now resides: the power of the internet , the power of the satellite broadcasters , the power of the money changers this vast moneygoround that circulates now 32 times the amount of money necessary for the trade it's supposed to be there to finance the money changers , if you like , the financial speculators that have brought us all to our knees quite recently , the power of the multinational corporations now developing budgets often bigger than mediumsized countries .	國際舞台和全球舞台 , 現在就有了:網際網路的力量 , 衛星廣播的力量 , 貨幣改變的力量 , 巨大的金錢大筆貨幣流通的力量 , 現在是交易所需要的32倍 , 應該是用來資助金改變金的人 , 如果你們願意的話 , 已經把我們帶到膝蓋的金融推動器 , 最近 , 發展中國家的發電量比發展中國家還要大32倍 。
these live in a global space which is largely unregulated , not subject to the rule of law , and in which people may act free of constraint .	這些生活在一個全球化的空間裡 , 主要是沒有規範的 , 沒有受到法律規則的限制 , 而在這個空間中 , 人們可能會不受約束 。
now that suits the powerful up to a moment .	現在這套裝備的效果 , 可說是強大的一刻 。
it's always suitable for those who have the most power to operate in spaces without constraint , but the lesson of history is that , sooner or later , unregulated space space not subject to the rule of law becomes populated , not just by the things you wanted international trade , the internet , etc . but also by the things you don't want international criminality , international terrorism .	對於那些有能力在沒有限制的空間中操作的人 , 總是很適合的 , 但歷史的教訓是 , 遲早 , 沒有規範的空間 , 不受法律規則的限制 , 不單單是你想要國際貿易、網路等等的事物 , 還有你不想要國際犯罪、國際恐怖主義的事物 。
the revelation of 9/11 is that even if you are the most powerful nation on earth , nevertheless , those who inhabit that space can attack you even in your most iconic of cities one bright september morning .	911的揭示是 , 即使你是地球上最強大的國家 , 儘管如此 , 住在那空間的那些人 , 可以攻擊你 , 即使是在9月1日的早晨 , 仍然會攻擊你 。
it's said that something like 60 percent of the four million dollars that was taken to fund 9/11 actually passed through the institutions of the twin towers which 9/11 destroyed .	有人說 , 大約有60%的四百萬美金被帶到9/11的基金會 , 實際上是通過雙子星大樓的機構 , 9/11被摧毀 。
you see , our enemies also use this space the space of mass travel , the internet , satellite broadcasters to be able to get around their poison , which is about destroying our systems and our ways .	要知道 , 我們的敵人也用這個空間──大眾旅行、網路、衛星廣播──來繞過他們的毒藥 , 來摧毀我們的系統和方式 。
sooner or later , sooner or later , the rule of history is that where power goes governance must follow .	早些時候 , 早晚些時候 , 歷史的規則就是權力的統治階層必須跟隨著 。
and if it is therefore the case , as i believe it is , that one of the phenomenon of our time is the globalization of power , then it follows that one of the challenges of our time is to bring governance to the global space .	假如我相信我們這個時代的全球化就是權力的全球化 , 那麼我們這個時代所面臨的挑戰之一就是將統治者帶到國際空間 。
and i believe that the decades ahead of us now will be to a greater or lesser extent turbulent the more or less we are able to achieve that aim: to bring governance to the global space .	我相信 , 未來的幾十年 , 將來會是更大或更小的亂流 , 或多或少我們能夠達成目標:將統治者帶到全球空間 。
now notice , i'm not talking about government .	請注意 , 我不是在說政府 。
i'm not talking about setting up some global democratic institution .	我不是在說要成立全球民主制度 。
my own view , by the way , ladies and gentlemen , is that this is unlikely to be done by spawning more u . n . institutions .	順道一提 , 我自己的看法是 , 女士們先生們 , 這在聯合國的機構不太可能實現 。
if we didn't have the u . n . , we'd have to invent it .	如果我們沒有聯合國 , 我們就得發明它 。
the world needs an international forum .	世界需要一個國際論壇 。
it needs a means by which you can legitimize international action .	它需要一種方法 , 可以讓國際行動合法化 。
but when it comes to governance of the global space , my guess is this won't happen through the creation of more u . n . institutions .	但當我們談到全球空間的管理時 , 我猜想 , 透過更多聯合國機構的創建 , 這種事並不會發生 。
it will actually happen by the powerful coming together and making treatybased systems , treatybased agreements , to govern that global space .	強大的力量聚集在一起 , 建立以條約為基礎的系統 , 以協議為基礎的協議 , 來管理這個全球空間 。
and if you look , you can see them happening , already beginning to emerge .	如果你看得到 , 你可以看到他們正在發生 , 已經開始出現了 。
the world trade organization: treatybased organization , entirely treatybased , and yet , powerful enough to hold even the most powerful , the united states , to account if necessary .	世界貿易組織:合約的以條約為基礎的組織 , 完全以條約為基礎的組織 , 但 , 強大到足以支撐最強大的美國 , 如果有必要的話 , 美國就負責 。
kyoto: the beginnings of struggling to create a treatybased organization .	京都議定書:正在努力打造一個以條約為基礎的組織 。
the g20: we know now that we have to put together an institution which is capable of bringing governance to that financial space for financial speculation .	二十國集團現在 , 我們知道我們必須組成一個機構 , 能夠把政府帶到金融空間 , 做為財務推測 。
and that's what the g20 is , a treatybased institution .	而這就是二十國集團協定的基礎機構 。
now there's a problem there , and we'll come back to it in a minute , which is that if you bring the most powerful together to make the rules in treatybased institutions , to fill that governance space , then what happens to the weak who are left out ?	現在有個問題 , 我們等下會再回來談這個問題 , 那就是 , 如果你把最強大的組織結合在一起 , 把協定為以規則為基礎的機構規則 , 填滿了統治的空間 , 那麼 , 那些被遺忘的弱者又會怎麼樣 ?
and that's a big problem , and we'll return to it in just a second .	這是個大問題 , 我們馬上就會回到這個問題上 。
so there's my first message , that if you are to pass through these turbulent times more or less turbulently , then our success in doing that will in large measure depend on our capacity to bring sensible governance to the global space .	所以 , 我的第一個信息是 , 如果你在亂度時 , 或多或少是亂度過這些亂流 , 那麼我們的成功 , 大體上 , 會取決於我們有能力把合理的統治帶到全球 。
and watch that beginning to happen .	看著這一切發生 。
my second point is , and i know i don't have to talk to an audience like this about such a thing , but power is not just shifting vertically , it's also shifting horizontally .	我的第二點是 , 我知道我不一定要和像這樣的觀眾談這件事 , 但權力不只是垂直的轉變 , 也是橫向的轉變 。
you might argue that the story , the history of civilizations , has been civilizations gathered around seas with the first ones around the mediterranean , the more recent ones in the ascendents of western power around the atlantic .	你也許會說這個故事 , 文明的歷史 , 一直以來文明聚集在海洋上 , 最先出現在地中海 , 最新的文明出現在大西洋的西方國家 。
well it seems to me that we're now seeing a fundamental shift of power , broadly speaking , away from nations gathered around the atlantic [seaboard] to the nations gathered around the pacific rim .	對我來說 , 似乎我們現在看到的是一個基本的權力轉移 , 廣泛的說 , 遠離各國聚集在大西洋棋場附近的國家 , 轉移到太平洋岸邊的國家 。
now that begins with economic power , but that's the way it always begins .	這一切都從經濟權力開始 , 但一直都是這樣開始的 。
you already begin to see the development of foreign policies , the augmentation of military budgets occurring in the other growing powers in the world .	你已經開始看到外交政策的發展 , 軍事預算的增長 , 在世界上其他成長勢力的地區 。
i think actually this is not so much a shift from the west to the east ; something different is happening .	我覺得其實這不是從西方移轉到東部 , 有什麼不一樣的事正在發生 。
my guess is , for what it's worth , is that the united states will remain the most powerful nation on earth for the next 10 years , 15 , but the context in which she holds her power has now radically altered ; it has radically changed .	我猜 , 值得一提的是 , 美國在未來的十年、十五年 , 仍然是地球上最強大的國家 , 但她掌握權力的背景現在已經徹底改變了 , 已經徹底改變了 。
we are coming out of 50 years , most unusual years , of history in which we have had a totally monopolar world , in which every compass needle for or against has to be referenced by its position to washington a world bestrode by a single colossus .	我們已經走出了五十年 , 最不尋常的時代 , 在這個時代 , 我們已經擁有了一個完全獨立的世界 , 在這個世界中 , 每個羅馬人的指南都需要被它的位置來引導到華盛頓一個世界 , 一個被哥倫斯世界給侵蝕的世界 。
but that's not a usual case in history .	但在歷史上 , 這不常見 。
in fact , what's now emerging is the much more normal case of history .	事實上 , 現在所浮現的 , 是更正常的歷史案例 。
you're beginning to see the emergence of a multipolar world .	你開始看到多極化的世界出現了 。
up until now , the united states has been the dominant feature of our world .	到目前為止 , 美國一直是世界的主要特徵 。
they will remain the most powerful nation , but they will be the most powerful nation in an increasingly multipolar world .	他們會保留最強大的國家 , 但在日益擴張的世界中 , 他們會是最強大的國家 。
and you begin to see the alternative centers of power building up in china , of course , though my own guess is that china's ascent to greatness is not smooth .	而你會開始看到其他的權力建設在中國 , 當然 , 我自己的猜測是 , 中國的偉大之處並不平穩 。
it's going to be quite grumpy as china begins to democratize her society after liberalizing her economy .	會很糟糕 , 因為中國在自由化後 , 將她的社會民主化 。
but that's a subject of a different discussion .	但那是不同討論的主題 。
you see india , you see brazil .	你看到印度 , 巴西 。
you see increasingly that the world now looks actually , for us europeans , much more like europe in the 19th century .	你可以看到事實上 , 對我們歐洲人而言 , 世界看起來更像十九世紀的歐洲 。
europe in the 19th century: a great british foreign secretary , lord canning , used to describe it as the " european concert of powers . "	歐洲在十九世紀時 , 一位偉大的英國外交部長 , 坎寧神 , 曾形容它為 「 歐洲的權力協會 」 。
there was a balance , a fivesided balance .	有一種平衡 , 一種五面的平衡 。
britain always played to the balance .	英國總是在扮演平衡的角色 。
if paris got together with berlin , britain got together with vienna and rome to provide a counterbalance .	如果巴黎和柏林合作 , 英國和維也納和羅馬合作 , 來提供平衡 。
now notice , in a period which is dominated by a monopolar world , you have fixed alliances nato , the warsaw pact .	請注意 , 在一個由獨立世界主導的時期 , 你有固定的聯盟北約組織 , 華沙協議 。
a fixed polarity of power means fixed alliances .	固定的兩極性 , 意味著固定的結盟 。
but a multiple polarity of power means shifting and changing alliances .	但 , 權力的兩極性就意味著改變和改變盟友關係 。
and that's the world we're coming into , in which we will increasingly see that our alliances are not fixed .	這就是我們正在進入的世界 , 我們會漸漸發現我們的盟友不是固定不變的 。
canning , the great british foreign secretary once said , " britain has a common interest , but no common allies . "	偉大的英國外交部長坎寧曾說: 「 英國有共同的利益 , 但沒有共同的盟友 。 」
and we will see increasingly that even we in the west will reach out , have to reach out , beyond the cozy circle of the atlantic powers to make alliances with others if we want to get things done in the world .	我們會漸漸看到 , 即使我們身處西方世界 , 亦必須伸出援手 , 超越大西洋的舒適圈 , 與他人結盟 , 只要我們想把事情搞定 。
note , that when we went into libya , it was not good enough for the west to do it alone ; we had to bring others in .	請注意 , 當我們進入利比亞時 , 對西方國家來說 , 光靠利比亞是不夠的 ; 我們得要把其他人帶進來 。
we had to bring , in this case , the arab league in .	我們必須把阿拉伯聯盟帶進來
my guess is iraq and afghanistan are the last times when the west has tried to do it themselves , and we haven't succeeded .	我猜想 , 伊拉克和阿富汗是最後一次 , 當西方國家嘗試自行完成時 , 我們還沒有成功 。
my guess is that we're reaching the beginning of the end of 400 years i say 400 years because it's the end of the ottoman empire of the hegemony of western power , western institutions and western values .	我的猜測是 , 我們已經達到400年的終點了 , 我說400年是因為這是奧圖曼帝國的結束 , 結束了西方強權、西方制度和西方的價值觀 。
you know , up until now , if the west got its act together , it could propose and dispose in every corner of the world .	要知道 , 直到現在 , 如果西方國家能團結起來 , 它就能在世界上的每個角落提出和丟棄 。
but that's no longer true .	但這已經不再是真的了 。
take the last financial crisis after the second world war .	以上次世界大戰後的最後一次金融危機為例 。
the west got together the bretton woods institution , world bank , international monetary fund the problem solved .	西方國家合作了布雷頓森林機構 , 世界銀行 , 國際貨幣基金會--問題解決了 。
now we have to call in others .	現在我們必須在其他人面前呼籲 。
now we have to create the g20 .	現在我們必須創造g20 。
now we have to reach beyond the cozy circle of our western friends .	現在我們必須超越西方朋友的舒適圈 。
let me make a prediction for you , which is probably even more startling .	讓我預測一下 , 這可能更令人吃驚 。
i suspect we are now reaching the end of 400 years when western power was enough .	我懷疑我們已經達到400年西方勢力足夠的終點了 。
people say to me , " the chinese , of course , they'll never get themselves involved in peacemaking , multilateral peacemaking around the world . "	人們對我說: 「 中國人 , 當然 , 他們永遠不會介入到世界各地的調停和平之中 。 」
oh yes ? why not ?	哦 , 為什麼不 ?
how many chinese troops are serving under the blue beret , serving under the blue flag , serving under the u . n . command in the world today ?	有多少中國軍隊在藍色貝雷特下服役 , 在藍色旗幟下服役 , 在聯合國的指令下服役 ?
how many americans ? 11 .	有多少美國人 ? 11人 。
what is the largest naval contingent tackling the issue of somali pirates ?	要解決索馬利海盜最大的海軍艦隊問題是什麼 ?
the chinese naval contingent .	中國的海軍陸戰隊
of course they are , they are a mercantilist nation .	他們當然是 , 他們是一流的慈善家 。
they want to keep the sea lanes open .	他們想讓航道保持開放 。
increasingly , we are going to have to do business with people with whom we do not share values , but with whom , for the moment , we share common interests .	逐漸地 , 我們要和那些不共享價值的人做生意 , 但現在 , 那些人 , 我們有共同的利益 。
it's a whole new different way of looking at the world that is now emerging .	這是一種全新的看法 , 現在正在興起 。
and here's the third factor , which is totally different .	第三個因素則完全不同 。
today in our modern world , because of the internet , because of the kinds of things people have been talking about here , everything is connected to everything .	今天 , 在我們的現代世界中 , 由於網路 , 因為人們在這裡所談論的各種事物 , 每件事都與萬物有關聯 。
we are now interdependent .	我們現在是相互依賴的 。
we are now interlocked , as nations , as individuals , in a way which has never been the case before , never been the case before .	我們現在相互關聯 , 國家 , 個人 , 以一種前所未有的方式 , 從未有過的案例 。
the interrelationship of nations , well it's always existed .	國家之間的關係總是存在的 。
diplomacy is about managing the interrelationship of nations .	外交是管理國家的相互關係 。
but now we are intimately locked together .	但現在我們被緊密封鎖在一起了 。
you get swine flu in mexico , it's a problem for charles de gaulle airport 24 hours later .	墨西哥的豬流感 , 24小時後 , 查爾斯degaulle機場出現了問題 。
lehman brothers goes down , the whole lot collapses .	雷曼兄弟倒閉了 , 大量的崩潰 。
there are fires in the steppes of russia , food riots in africa .	俄羅斯大草原上有火災非洲的食物暴動
we are all now deeply , deeply , deeply interconnected .	我們現在都深切地、深切地相互連結 。
and what that means is the idea of a nation state acting alone , not connected with others , not working with others , is no longer a viable proposition .	這意味著 , 一個國家的概念獨立行動 , 而非與他人建立關係 , 而非與他人合作 , 不再是個可行的建議 。
because the actions of a nation state are neither confined to itself , nor is it sufficient for the nation state itself to control its own territory , because the effects outside the nation state are now beginning to affect what happens inside them .	因為一個國家的行動既不受限於自己 , 也不足以控制自己的國土 , 因為其國外的影響已經開始影響到國內發生的一切 。
i was a young soldier in the last of the small empire wars of britain .	我是英國最後一次帝國戰爭的年輕士兵 。
at that time , the defense of my country was about one thing and one thing only: how strong was our army , how strong was our air force , how strong was our navy and how strong were our allies .	那時 , 我國家的國防大概有一件事 , 只有一件事:我們的軍隊有多強 , 我們的空軍有多強 , 我們的海軍有多強 , 我們的盟友有多強 。
that was when the enemy was outside the walls .	敵人就在城牆外 。
now the enemy is inside the walls .	敵人就在城牆裡 。
now if i want to talk about the defense of my country , i have to speak to the minister of health because pandemic disease is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of agriculture because food security is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of industry because the fragility of our hitech infrastructure is now a point of attack for our enemies as we see from cyber warfare i have to speak to the minister of home affairs because who has entered my country , who lives in that terraced house in that inner city has a direct effect on what happens in my country as we in london saw in the 7/7 bombings .	如果我想要談談我國家的國防部 , 我必須和衛生署談談 , 因為流行病對我的健康造成威脅 , 我必須和農業部長談談 , 因為糧食安全對我的安全造成了威脅 , 我必須和工業部長談談 , 因為現在 , 我們的高科技基礎建設很脆弱 , 正如同我們從網路戰爭中看到的那樣 , 我必須和農業部長談 , 因為在我國內發生過的事 , 這件事 , 已經在7777年內發生了 。
it's no longer the case that the security of a country is simply a matter for its soldiers and its ministry of defense .	再也不是一個國家的安全就只是它的士兵和國防部的問題 。
it's its capacity to lock together its institutions .	它是鎖定它的機構的能力 。
and this tells you something very important .	這告訴我們一件非常重要的事 。
it tells you that , in fact , our governments , vertically constructed , constructed on the economic model of the industrial revolution vertical hierarchy , specialization of tasks , command structures have got the wrong structures completely .	它告訴我們 , 事實上 , 我們的政府 , 垂直建立起來 , 建立在工業革命的經濟模式 , 垂直階層 , 專門化的任務 , 指令結構完全錯了 。
you in business know that the paradigm structure of our time , ladies and gentlemen , is the network .	各位在商業界都知道 , 我們這個時代的典範架構 , 各位先生女士 , 就是網路 。
it's your capacity to network that matters , both within your governments and externally .	重要的是 , 網絡網絡的能力 , 不論是政府或外部 。
so here is ashdown's third law .	這是ashdown的第三條法則 。
by the way , don't ask me about ashdown's first law and second law because i haven't invented those yet ; it always sounds better if there's a third law , doesn't it ?	順道一提 , 不要問我第一條法則和第二條法則 , 因為我還沒發明出來 ; 如果第三條法則有更好聽起來 , 不是嗎 ?
ashdown's third law is that in the modern age , where everything is connected to everything , the most important thing about what you can do is what you can do with others .	第三個法則是 , 在現代社會 , 一切都與一切相關 , 最重要的是 , 你能做的是 , 能和他人做同樣的事 。
the most important bit about your structure whether you're a government , whether you're an army regiment , whether you're a business is your docking points , your interconnectors , your capacity to network with others .	最重要的是 , 不論你是政府 , 不論你是軍隊的監管 , 不論你是企業的監控點 , 你的相互連結的能力 。
you understand that in industry ; governments don't .	在工業界 , 政府不懂 。
but now one final thing .	但 , 最後一點 。
if it is the case , ladies and gentlemen and it is that we are now locked together in a way that has never been quite the same before , then it's also the case that we share a destiny with each other .	如果是的話 , 女士們先生們--而這就是我們現在被緊密結合在一起--以前從來沒有如此過 , 那也是我們互相分享命運的例子 。
suddenly and for the very first time , collective defense , the thing that has dominated us as the concept of securing our nations , is no longer enough .	突然間 , 也是第一次 , 集體防禦 , 那些支配我們國家安全的概念已經不夠了 。
it used to be the case that if my tribe was more powerful than their tribe , i was safe ; if my country was more powerful than their country , i was safe ; my alliance , like nato , was more powerful than their alliance , i was safe .	過去 , 如果我的部落比他們的部落更強大 , 我就安全了 , 如果我的國家比他們的國家更強大 , 我就安全了 ; 我的盟友 , 像北約組織 , 比他們的盟友更強大 , 我就安全了 。
it is no longer the case .	情況不再是如此了 。
the advent of the interconnectedness and of the weapons of mass destruction means that , increasingly , i share a destiny with my enemy .	大規模毀滅性武器的出現 , 意味著 , 漸漸地 , 我和我的敵人有著同樣的命運 。
when i was a diplomat negotiating the disarmament treaties with the soviet union in geneva in the 1970s , we succeeded because we understood we shared a destiny with them .	當我還是外交官的時候 , 在1970年代和蘇聯在日內瓦和蘇聯的斷層協商時 , 我們成功了 , 因為我們了解到 , 我們和他們有共同的命運 。
collective security is not enough .	集體安全是不夠的 。
peace has come to northern ireland because both sides realized that the zerosum game couldn't work .	和平已經來到北愛爾蘭 , 因為雙方了解 , 零和遊戲是行不通的 。
they shared a destiny with their enemies .	他們和敵人有著共同的命運 。
one of the great barriers to peace in the middle east is that both sides , both israel and , i think , the palestinians , do not understand that they share a collective destiny .	中東和平最大的阻礙之一 , 就是以色列和巴勒斯坦人 , 都不明白他們有共同的命運 。
and so suddenly , ladies and gentlemen , what has been the proposition of visionaries and poets down the ages becomes something we have to take seriously as a matter of public policy .	所以 , 突然間 , 各位先生女士們 , 一直以來 , 由於有遠見的人和詩人的建議 , 變成了我們必須認真看待的公共政策 。
i started with a poem , i'll end with one .	我從一首詩開始 , 以一首詩來結束 。
the great poem of john donne's .	約翰的偉大詩作 。
" send not for whom the bell tolls . "	「 請不要為鈴聲響亮 。 」
the poem is called " no man is an island . "	這首詩叫做 " 沒有人是孤島 "
and it goes: " every man's death affected me , for i am involved in mankind , send not to ask for whom the bell tolls , it tolls for thee . "	上面寫著: 「 每個人的死亡都影響著我 , 因為我參與了人類 , 不去問鈴聲是誰 , 鈴聲為我崩潰 。 」
for john donne , a recommendation of morality .	對於約翰多恩 , 道德的建議是道德的建議 。
for us , i think , part of the equation for our survival .	對我們來說 , 我認為 , 算是我們生存的一部分 。
to find the path to long life and health , dan buettner and team study the world's " blue zones , " communities whose elders live with vim and vigor to recordsetting age . at tedxtc , he shares the 9 common diet and lifestyle habits that keep them spry past age 100 .	為了找到長壽生活和健康的道路 , 丹•布特納和團隊研究世界的 「 藍色區 」 , 他們的長者和vim和vinvigor一起生活 , 在tedxtc , 他共享9個常見的飲食和生活習慣 , 使他們在一百歲以上不能忘懷 。
biology , culture , exploration , food , health , life , science	生物學、文化、探索食物、健康、生命、科學 。
dan buettner: how to live to be 100+	danbuetner:如何活到一百歲 ?
something called the danish twin study established that only about 10 percent of how long the average person lives , within certain biological limits , is dictated by our genes .	有個叫做丹麥雙胞胎的研究指出 , 在某些生物限制下 , 平均一個人的壽命只有10% 。
the other 90 percent is dictated by our lifestyle .	剩下的90%是由生活方式主宰的 。
so the premise of blue zones: if we can find the optimal lifestyle of longevity we can come up with a de facto formula for longevity .	所以 , 藍寶地的前提是:如果我們能找到長壽的最佳生活方式 , 我們就能提出一個長壽的實質方程式 。
but if you ask the average american what the optimal formula of longevity is , they probably couldn't tell you .	但如果你問一般美國人 , 長壽的最佳公式是什麼 , 他們大概不會告訴你 。
they've probably heard of the south beach diet , or the atkins diet .	他們可能聽說過南海灘減肥法 , 或阿特金斯減肥法 。
you have the usda food pyramid .	還有美國食品藥物管理局的金字塔 。
there is what oprah tells us .	歐普拉說過的話 。
there is what doctor oz tells us .	奧茲博士告訴我們 ,
the fact of the matter is there is a lot of confusion around what really helps us live longer better .	事實是 , 對於真正幫助我們活得更好的事物 , 有許多的困惑 。
should you be running marathons or doing yoga ?	你應該跑馬拉松還是做瑜伽 ?
should you eat organic meats or should you be eating tofu ?	你應該吃有機肉還是豆腐 ?
when it comes to supplements , should you be taking them ?	當談到補充品時 , 你要拿它們嗎 ?
how about these hormones or resveratrol ?	那麼這些荷爾蒙或雷斯多德呢 ?
and does purpose play into it ?	目的在其中嗎 ?
spirituality ? and how about how we socialize ?	靈性呢 ? 那我們如何社交呢 ?
well , our approach to finding longevity was to team up with national geographic , and the national institute on aging , to find the four demographically confirmed areas that are geographically defined .	我們尋找長壽的方法 , 是與國家地理和國家老化學院合作 , 找到四個人口統計學的確受地理定義的地區 。
and then bring a team of experts in there to methodically go through exactly what these people do , to distill down the crosscultural distillation .	接著 , 讓一組專家來到那裡 , 經常會經過他們所做的事 , 來分析這些人所做的事 , 來進行跨文化的分析 。
and at the end of this i'm going to tell you what that distillation is .	到最後 , 我要告訴各位那片斷是什麼 。
but first i'd like to debunk some common myths when it comes to longevity .	但 , 首先 , 我想要揭露一些常見的迷思 , 關於長壽的迷思 。
and the first myth is if you try really hard you can live to be 100 .	第一個迷思是如果你真的努力嘗試過活到100歲
the problem is , only about one out of 5 , 000 people in america live to be 100 .	問題是 , 在美國 , 大約五千人當中 , 只有一個人活到一百歲 。
your chances are very low .	你的機率非常低 。
even though it's the fastest growing demographic in america , it's hard to reach 100 .	雖然它是美國成長最快的一百歲人口 , 但很難達到 。
the problem is that we're not programmed for longevity .	問題是 , 我們沒有長壽的規劃 。
we are programmed for something called procreative success .	我們被設計為 「 程序性成功 」 。
i love that word .	我喜歡這個字 。
it reminds me of my college days .	這讓我想起我大學的日子 。
biologists term procreative success to mean the age where you have children and then another generation , the age when your children have children .	生物學家稱之為 「 成功 」 , 意思是你有孩子的年齡 , 接著是另一個世代 , 當你的孩子有孩子時的年齡 。
after that the effect of evolution completely dissipates .	在那之後 , 演化的效應完全消失了 。
if you're a mammal , if you're a rat or an elephant , or a human , in between , it's the same story .	如果你是哺乳類動物 , 如果你是老鼠或大象 , 或中間的人類 , 都是一樣的 。
so to make it to age 100 , you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle , you also have to have won the genetic lottery .	所以 , 若要做到一百歲 , 你不只得要有很棒的生活方式 , 你也得要贏得遺傳學的樂透 。
the second myth is , there are treatments that can help slow , reverse , or even stop aging .	第二個迷思是 , 有些治療方法可以緩慢、逆轉 , 甚至停止老化 。
when you think of it , there is 99 things that can age us .	想想看 , 有99件事情可以讓我們老化 。
deprive your brain of oxygen for just a few minutes , those brain cells die , they never come back .	只要幾分鐘的時間 , 那些腦細胞就死了 , 它們永遠不會回來 。
play tennis too hard , on your knees , ruin your cartilage , the cartilage never comes back .	打網球太難 , 在你的膝蓋上 , 打破你的軟骨 , 軟骨永遠不會回來 。
our arteries can clog . our brains can gunk up with plaque , and we can get alzheimer's .	我們的動脈可以堵塞 。 我們的大腦可以用斑塊來連結 , 然後我們可以得到阿茲海默症 。
there is just too many things to go wrong .	有太多事情會出錯 。
our bodies have 35 trillion cells , trillion with a " t . " we're talking national debt numbers here .	我們的身體有35兆個細胞 , 用 「 t 」 來計算 , 我們在這裡談的是國家債務的數字 。
those cells turn themselves over once every eight years .	那些細胞每八年就會轉一次 。
and every time they turn themselves over there is some damage . and that damage builds up .	每當它們自己翻過來 , 就會造成一些損害 。 而損害會累積起來 。
and it builds up exponentially .	它是以指數成長的 。
it's a little bit like the days when we all had beatles albums or eagles albums and we'd make a copy of that on a cassette tape , and let our friends copy that cassette tape , and pretty soon , with successive generations that tape sounds like garbage .	有點像以前我們都有披頭四的專輯或老鷹專輯 , 我們會在錄音帶上做一份複製 , 讓我們的朋友複製錄音帶 , 很快地 , 幾世代以來 , 錄音帶聽起來像是垃圾 。
well , the same things happen to our cells .	同樣的事也發生在我們的細胞上 。
that's why a 65yearold person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12yearold person .	這就是為什麼一個65歲的人老化速度比一個12歲的人快125倍 。
so , if there is nothing you can do to slow your aging or stop your aging , what am i doing here ?	所以 , 如果沒有辦法減緩老化或停止老化 , 我在這裡幹什麼 ?
well , the fact of the matter is the best science tells us that the capacity of the human body , my body , your body , is about 90 years , a little bit more for women .	事實上 , 最好的科學告訴我們 , 人類身體的能力 , 我的身體 , 你的身體 , 大約九十年 , 女人的身體多一點 。
but life expectancy in this country is only 78 .	但這個國家的平均壽命只有78歲 。
so somewhere along the line , we're leaving about 12 good years on the table .	所以 , 在這條線的某一刻 , 我們在桌上留下了12年的美好時光 。
these are years that we could get .	這些年是我們能得到的 。
and research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease , heart disease , cancer and diabetes .	研究顯示 , 大部份時間都沒有慢性病、心臟疾病、癌症 , 和糖尿病 。
we think the best way to get these missing years is to look at the cultures around the world that are actually experiencing them , areas where people are living to age 100 at rates up to 10 times greater than we are , areas where the life expectancy is an extra dozen years , the rate of middle age mortality is a fraction of what it is in this country .	我們認為 , 要消失這些年 , 最好的辦法 , 就是去看世界各地的文化 , 那裡的人活到一百歲 , 比我們活得大上十倍 , 那些預期壽命延長了十幾年 , 中年死亡率是這個國家的一小部分 。
we found our first blue zone about 125 miles off the coast of italy , on the island of sardinia .	我們在義大利海岸以外的125英里外發現了我們的第一個藍色區域 , 位在薩丁尼亞島上 。
and not the entire island , the island is about 1 . 4 million people , but only up in the highlands , an area called the nuoro province .	不是整個島嶼 , 整個島嶼大約有一百四十萬人 , 但只有在高地上 , 有一個叫做努羅省的區域 。
and here we have this area where men live the longest , about 10 times more centenarians than we have here in america .	這裡我們看到的是男人最長壽的地區 , 百歲人瑞的數目 , 比美國人多十倍 。
and this is a place where people not only reach age 100 , they do so with extraordinary vigor .	這是一個地方 , 人們不只活到一百歲 , 他們還活得很厲害 。
places where 102 year olds still ride their bike to work , chop wood , and can beat a guy 60 years younger than them .	那些年紀102歲的老人仍然騎單車去上班 , 砍木頭 , 還能打敗比他們年輕60歲的人 。
their history actually goes back to about the time of christ .	他們的歷史實際上會回到耶穌的時代 。
it's actually a bronze age culture that's been isolated .	它實際上是一個孤立的青銅時代文化 。
because the land is so infertile , they largely are shepherds , which occasions regular , lowintensity physical activity .	因為土地實在太虛弱了 , 大多是牧羊人 , 牠們的活動規律很低 , 身體活動也很低 。
their diet is mostly plantbased , accentuated with foods that they can carry into the fields .	他們的飲食主要以植物為主 , 以他們能帶到田野的食物為中心 。
they came up with an unleavened whole wheat bread called carta musica made out of durum wheat , a type of cheese made from grassfed animals so the cheese is high in omega3 fatty acids instead of omega6 fatty acids from cornfed animals , and a type of wine that has three times the level of polyphenols than any known wine in the world .	他們想出一種尚未發酵的全麥麵包 , 叫做 「 卡塔小麥 」 , 一種由草原餵養的動物所製成的乳酪 , 這種乳酪在omega-3脂肪酸中高 , 而不是omega-6脂肪酸 , 由玉米餵養的動物所製成 , 還有一種葡萄酒 , 比世界上任何酒都還要高三倍 。
but the real secret i think lies more in the way that they organize their society .	但我認為 , 真正的秘密是他們組織社會的方式 。
and one of the most salient elements of the sardinian society is how they treat older people .	薩丁尼亞社會最突出的元素之一 , 就是他們對待老年人的方式 。
you ever notice here in america , social equity seems to peak at about age 24 ?	你有沒有注意到 , 在美國 , 社會公平似乎在24歲左右達到高峰 ?
just look at the advertisements .	只要看看廣告 。
here in sardinia , the older you get the more equity you have , the more wisdom you're celebrated for .	在薩丁尼亞 , 你越能得到越多的公平 , 你就越有智慧 。
you go into the bars in sardinia , instead of seeing the sports illustrated swimsuit calendar , you see the centenarian of the month calendar .	你走進薩丁尼亞的酒吧 , 與其看運動畫出泳衣日曆 , 你看到百歲人瑞的月曆 。
this , as it turns out , is not only good for your aging parents to keep them close to the family it imparts about four to six years of extra life expectancy research shows it's also good for the children of those families , who have lower rates of mortality and lower rates of disease .	結果發現 , 這不只適用於你的老年父母親 , 讓他們與家人親近 , 還將預期壽命延長了大約四到六年 , 對那些家庭的孩子來說 , 這對那些家庭的孩子來說是有益的 , 他們的死亡率較低 , 疾病的比率也較低 。
that's called the grandmother effect .	這叫做祖母效應 。
we found our second blue zone on the other side of the planet , about 800 miles south of tokyo , on the archipelago of okinawa .	我們在地球的另一邊發現了第二個藍色區域 , 位於東京南部的800英里處 , 位在俄亥俄州的阿基拉威 。
okinawa is actually 161 small islands .	okinawa其實是161個小島
and in the northern part of the main island , this is ground zero for world longevity .	主要島嶼的北端是世界長壽的0 。
this is a place where the oldest living female population is found .	這是最古老的女性居住地 。
it's a place where people have the longest disabilityfree life expectancy in the world .	在這個地方 , 人們平均壽命最長的人是沒有殘疾的人 。
they have what we want .	他們有我們想要的 。
they live a long time , and tend to die in their sleep , very quickly , and often , i can tell you , after sex .	他們活得很久 , 通常在他們的睡眠中死亡 , 很快 , 常常 , 我可以告訴你 , 在性交之後 。
they live about seven good years longer than the average american .	他們的壽命比美國人的平均壽命長七年 。
five times as many centenarians as we have in america .	在美國 , 百歲人瑞的比例是五倍 。
one fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer , big killers here in america .	五分之一的結腸癌和乳癌 , 美國的大殺手 。
and one sixth the rate of cardiovascular disease .	心血管疾病的比例是六分之一 。
and the fact that this culture has yielded these numbers suggests strongly they have something to teach us .	事實是 , 文化產生了這些數字 , 強烈的暗示他們有東西要教我們 。
what do they do ?	他們會怎麼做 ?
once again , a plantbased diet , full of vegetables with lots of color in them .	再一次 , 以植物為基礎的飲食 , 裡面滿是蔬菜 , 裡面有許多顏色 。
and they eat about eight times as much tofu as americans do .	美國人吃的豆腐量大約是8倍 。
more significant than what they eat is how they eat it .	比他們所吃的更重要的是他們如何吃它 。
they have all kinds of little strategies to keep from overeating , which , as you know , is a big problem here in america .	他們有各式各樣的小策略來避免過食 , 如你所知 , 這在美國是個大問題 。
a few of the strategies we observed: they eat off of smaller plates , so they tend to eat fewer calories at every sitting .	我們觀察到的一些策略:它們吃的盤子比較小 , 所以每次坐著時的熱量都比較少 。
instead of serving family style , where you can sort of mindlessly eat as you're talking , they serve at the counter , put the food away , and then bring it to the table .	與其服務家庭風格 , 當你在說話時 , 你可以無心地吃東西 , 他們在櫃台上 , 把食物拿走 , 然後帶到桌上 。
they also have a 3 , 000yearold adage , which i think is the greatest sort of diet suggestion ever invented .	他們還有一句3000年的格言我認為這是有史以來最偉大的飲食建議
it was invented by confucius .	它是由孔子發明的 。
and that diet is known as the hara , hatchi , bu diet .	這種飲食稱為 「 騷擾 」 、 「 仇恨 」 、 「 飲食 」 。
it's simply a little saying these people say before their meal to remind them to stop eating when their stomach is [80] percent full .	簡單來說 , 這些人在一餐前會先說 , 提醒他們不要吃東西 , 吃到他們的胃有80%是滿的 。
it takes about a half hour for that full feeling to travel from your belly to your brain .	整個感覺要花上半小時才能從腹部移動到腦部 。
and by remembering to stop at 80 percent it helps keep you from doing that very thing .	記住 , 記住要在80%時停下來 , 這會幫助你不去做這件事 。
but , like sardinia , okinawa has a few social constructs that we can associate with longevity .	但 , 就像薩丁尼亞 , 琉球有幾個社會結構 , 我們可以用長壽來連結 。
we know that isolation kills .	我們知道孤立會致命 。
fifteen years ago , the average american had three good friends .	十五年前 , 美國平均有三個好朋友 。
we're down to one and half right now .	我們現在已經下降到一半了 。
if you were lucky enough to be born in okinawa , you were born into a system where you automatically have a half a dozen friends with whom you travel through life .	如果你幸運地出生在琉球 , 你出生在一個系統中 , 你自動有五十個朋友 , 與他們同行 。
they call it a moai . and if you're in a moai you're expected to share the bounty if you encounter luck , and if things go bad , child gets sick , parent dies , you always have somebody who has your back .	他們稱之為 「 模仿 」 。 如果你在模仿中 , 如果你幸運的話 , 你會被期待分享 「 反彈 」 。 如果情況不好的話 , 孩子生病了 , 父母死去 , 總是有人背著你的背 。
this particular moai , these five ladies have been together for 97 years .	這五位女士 , 這五位女士 , 已經在一起97年了 。
their average age is 102 .	他們的平均年齡是102歲 。
typically in america we've divided our adult life up into two sections .	通常在美國 , 我們把成人的生活分成兩部分 。
there is our work life , where we're productive .	我們的工作是有生產力的 。
and then one day , boom , we retire .	然後有一天 , 我們退休了 。
and typically that has meant retiring to the easy chair , or going down to arizona to play golf .	通常這代表要退休給簡單的椅子 , 或是去亞利桑那州打高爾夫球 。
in the okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement .	在琉球語中 , 沒有退休的字眼 。
instead there is one word that imbues your entire life , and that word is " ikigai . "	取而代之的是 , 整個人生中有一個字 , 那個字是 「 ikigai 」 。
and , roughly translated , it means " the reason for which you wake up in the morning . "	粗略來說 , 意思是 「 早上起床的理由 」 。
for this 102yearold karate master , his ikigai was carrying forth this martial art .	對於這位102歲的卡爾特大師 , 他的ikigai帶著這種武術 。
for this hundredyearold fisherman it was continuing to catch fish for his family three times a week .	對於這位一百歲的漁夫來說 , 他每週捕魚三次 。
and this is a question . the national institute on aging actually gave us a questionnaire to give these centenarians .	這是個問題 。 國家老化研究所實際上給我們一個問卷 , 給這些百歲人瑞 。
and one of the questions , they were very culturally astute , the people who put the questionnaire .	其中一個問題是 , 他們的文化非常敏銳 , 那些問卷問卷的人 。
one of the questions was , " what is your ikigai ? "	其中一個問題是: 「 你的ikigai是什麼 ? 」
they instantly knew why they woke up in the morning .	他們馬上就知道為什麼早上起床 。
for this 102 year old woman , her ikigai was simply her greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	對這位一百零二歲的老太太來說 , 她的生平只是她的曾曾曾曾曾曾孫女 。
two girls separated in age by 101 and a half years .	兩位女孩在101歲前就分開了 。
and i asked her what it felt like to hold a greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	我問她 , 拿著一位曾曾曾曾孫女的感覺是怎樣的 。
and she put her head back and she said , " it feels like leaping into heaven . "	她把頭放回去 , 說: 「 感覺就像跳上天堂 。 」
i thought that was a wonderful thought .	我覺得這是個很棒的想法 。
my editor at geographic wanted me to find america's blue zone .	我在地理雜誌的編輯希望我能找到美國的藍色區域 。
and for a while we looked on the prairies of minnesota , where actually there is a very high proportion of centenarians .	有一陣子 , 我們檢視明尼蘇達的草原 , 那裡百歲人瑞的比例非常高 。
but that's because all the young people left .	但那是因為所有的年輕人都離開了 。
so , we turned to the data again .	所以 , 我們再次轉向資料 。
and we found america's longestlived population among the seventhday adventists concentrated in and around loma linda , california .	我們發現 , 美國最長壽的人口住在七天的新教徒之中 , 集中在加州的羅馬林達市 。
adventists are conservative methodists .	基督復臨派是保守派的方法論者 。
they celebrate their sabbath from sunset on friday till sunset on saturday .	他們從星期五日的日落慶祝安息日 , 到星期六的日落 。
a " 24hour sanctuary in time , " they call it .	他們稱之為 「 時間24小時的庇護 」 。
and they follow five little habits that conveys to them extraordinary longevity , comparatively speaking .	他們遵循五個小習慣 , 相較之下 , 牠們的壽命非常長 ,
in america here , life expectancy for the average woman is 80 .	在美國 , 平均的女性平均壽命是80歲 。
but for an adventist woman , their life expectancy is 89 .	但對一位新進主義的女性來說 , 他們的預期壽命是89歲 。
and the difference is even more pronounced among men , who are expected to live about 11 years longer than their american counterparts .	男性之間的差異更明顯 , 他們預期會比美國的對手多活11年 。
now , this is a study that followed about 70 , 000 people for 30 years .	這個研究追蹤了大約七萬人三十年 。
sterling study . and i think it supremely illustrates the premise of this blue zone project .	史特林的研究 。 而且我認為它完全說明了這個藍色區域計畫的前提 。
this is a heterogeneous community .	這是個異質族群 。
it's white , black , hispanic , asian .	它是白色、黑色、西班牙裔、亞洲人 。
the only thing that they have in common are a set of very small lifestyle habits that they follow ritualistically for most of their lives .	他們唯一的共通點是一套非常微小的生活習慣他們大半輩子都遵循著儀式式的生活
they take their diet directly from the bible .	他們直接從聖經中得到他們的飲食 。
genesis: chapter one , verse [29] , where god talks about legumes and seeds , and on one more stanza about green plants , ostensibly missing is meat .	創世紀:第一章 , 第二9節 , 上帝談到樂高和種子 , 再談到綠色植物 , 很明顯地少了肉 。
they take this sanctuary in time very serious .	他們非常認真地看待這個庇護所 。
for 24 hours every week , no matter how busy they are , how stressed out they are at work , where the kids need to be driven , they stop everything and they focus on their god , their social network , and then , hardwired right in the religion , are nature walks .	每週24小時 , 不管他們多忙 , 工作壓力多大 , 孩子需要被駕駛 , 他們停下一切 , 把焦點放在上帝、社交網路上 , 然後 , 在宗教裡 , 基本上就在走路 。
and the power of this is not that it's done occasionally , the power is it's done every week for a lifetime .	強大之處在於 , 它偶爾會做 , 權力是每週做一次 。
none of it's hard . none of it costs money .	這些都不難 , 都不需要花錢 。
adventists also tend to hang out with other adventists .	新進主義者也傾向和其他的新進主義者混在一起 。
so , if you go to an adventist's party you don't see people swilling jim beam or rolling a joint .	所以 , 如果你去參加一個臨終關節派對 , 你不會看到有人在嘲笑吉姆貝姆 , 或滾一個關節 。
instead they're talking about their next nature walk , exchanging recipes , and yes , they pray .	取而代之的是 , 他們在談論下一個自然步行 , 交換食譜 , 是的 , 他們祈禱 。
but they influence each other in profound and measurable ways .	但它們以深刻、可測量的方式影響彼此 。
this is a culture that has yielded ellsworth whareham .	這個文化已經產生了ellswhareham
ellsworth whareham is 97 years old .	埃爾斯沃•沃倫97歲 。
he's a multimillionaire , yet when a contractor wanted 6 , 000 dollars to build a privacy fence , he said , " for that kind of money i'll do it myself . "	他是百萬富翁 , 但當包商想要6 , 000美金去建一座隱私圍籬時 , 他說: 「 為了那樣的錢 , 我會自己做 。 」
so for the next three days he was out shoveling cement , and hauling poles around .	所以接下來的三天 , 他出去了挖水泥 , 到處拖著桿子 。
and predictably , perhaps , on the fourth day he ended up in the operating room .	可以預料的 , 也許 , 在第四天 , 他來到手術室 。
but not as the guy on the table ; the guy doing openheart surgery .	但不是桌上的那個人 ; 做開心手術的人 。
at 97 he still does 20 openheart surgeries every month .	97歲的他仍然每個月做20次開心手術 。
ed rawlings , 103 years old now , an active cowboy , starts his morning with a swim .	艾德•羅林斯 , 103歲的現在 , 活躍的牛仔 , 從每天早上開始游泳 。
and on weekends he likes to put on the boards , throw up rooster tails .	在週末 , 他喜歡在董事會上 , 把公雞尾巴丟出去 。
her grandson actually lives in the twin cities here .	她的孫子真的住在這兩個城市裡 。
she starts her day with lifting weights .	她每天從舉重開始 。
she rides her bicycle .	她騎腳踏車 。
and then she gets in her rootbeer colored 1994 cadillac seville , and tears down the san bernardino freeway , where she still volunteers for seven different organizations .	接著 , 她進入她根部的根部 , 1994年凱迪拉克賽維爾 , 在聖貝納迪諾高速公路上 , 她仍然是七個不同組織的志工 。
i've been on 19 hardcore expeditions .	我曾參加過19次硬體考察 。
i'm probably the only person you'll ever meet who rode his bicycle across the sahara desert without sunscreen .	我大概是你見過唯一一個騎著腳踏車穿越撒哈拉沙漠的人 , 卻沒有防曬霜 。
but i'll tell you , there is no adventure more harrowing than riding shotgun with marge deton .	但我要告訴各位 , 沒有任何冒險比和瑪格頓騎車的機會更恐怖 。
" a stranger is a friend i haven't met yet ! " she'd say to me .	「 陌生人是我還沒見過面的朋友 ! 」 她會對我說 。
so , what are the common denominators in these three cultures ?	所以 , 這三種文化中有什麼共同點 ?
what are the things that they all do ?	他們會怎麼做 ?
and we managed to boil it down to nine .	我們成功地歸結為九個 。
in fact we've done two more blue zone expeditions since this and these common denominators hold true .	事實上 , 自從此以來 , 我們已經多做了兩個藍寶地考察 , 而這些共同點也成立了 。
and the first one , and i'm about to utter a heresy here , none of them exercise , at least the way we think of exercise .	第一個 , 我即將要說一個瘋狂 , 沒有一個運動 , 至少我們對運動的看法 。
instead , they set up their lives so that they are constantly nudged into physical activity .	取而代之 , 他們建立自己的生活 , 使他們經常被迫進入實體活動 。
these 100yearold okinawan women are getting up and down off the ground , they sit on the floor , 30 or 40 times a day .	這一百歲的奧金納瓦女性在離地而去 , 她們坐在地板上 , 一天30或40次 。
sardinians live in vertical houses , up and down the stairs .	薩丁尼亞人住在垂直的房子裡 , 住在樓梯上下 。
every trip to the store , or to church or to a friend's house occasions a walk .	每次去商店 , 或教堂 , 或去朋友家裡 , 偶爾會走路 。
they don't have any conveniences .	他們沒有任何便利 。
there is not a button to push to do yard work or house work .	沒有一個按鈕可以做院子或房子工作 。
if they want to mix up a cake , they're doing it by hand .	如果他們想要混合蛋糕 , 他們會用手做蛋糕 。
that burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does .	跑步機燃燒的熱量和跑步機一樣多 。
when they do do intentional physical activity , it's the things they enjoy . they tend to walk , the only proven way to stave off cognitive decline , and they all tend to have a garden .	當他們做有意的身體活動時 , 這是他們享受的東西 。 他們會走路 , 唯一證明的途徑是停止認知的衰退 , 而且他們都會有花園 。
they know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook .	他們知道如何用正確的方式生活 , 所以他們有正確的前景 。
each of these cultures take time to downshift .	每一種文化都需要時間才能下降 。
the sardinians pray . the seventhday adventists pray .	薩丁尼亞人祈禱 , 七天的新教徒祈禱 。
the okinawans have this ancestor veneration .	琉球人有這種祖先的調查 。
but when you're in a hurry or stressed out , that triggers something called the inflammatory response , which is associated with everything from alzheimer's disease to cardiovascular disease .	但當你趕時間或緊張的時候 , 會引發發發炎性反應 , 這和阿茲海默症、心血管疾病有關 。
when you slow down for 15 minutes a day you turn that inflammatory state into a more antiinflammatory state .	當你一天放慢十五分鐘 , 你就會把那發炎狀態變成更加反炎的狀態 。
they have vocabulary for sense of purpose , ikigai , like the okinawans .	他們用詞語來表達目的性 , 伊基吉 , 像琉球人一樣 。
you know the two most dangerous years in your life are the year you're born , because of infant mortality , and the year you retire .	你知道你生命中最危險的兩年是你出生的那一年 , 因為嬰兒死亡率 , 和退休那年 。
these people know their sense of purpose , and they activate in their life , that's worth about seven years of extra life expectancy .	這些人知道自己的人生目標 , 他們活躍起來 , 這大約值七年的預期壽命 。
there's no longevity diet .	沒有長壽的飲食 。
instead , these people drink a little bit every day , not a hard sell to the american population .	相反的 , 這些人每天都喝點酒 , 而對美國人口來說 , 賣得並不難 。
they tend to eat a plantbased diet .	他們傾向以植物為主的飲食 。
doesn't mean they don't eat meat , but lots of beans and nuts .	不是說他們不吃肉 , 而是很多豆類和堅果 。
and they have strategies to keep from overeating , little things that nudge them away from the table at the right time .	他們有策略可以避免過食 , 有些小策略會讓他們在對的時間把他們從桌子上移開 。
and then the foundation of all this is how they connect .	這一切的基礎是他們如何連結 。
they put their families first , take care of their children and their aging parents .	他們把家人放在第一 , 照顧他們的孩子和他們的老父母 。
they all tend to belong to a faithbased community , which is worth between four and 14 extra years of life expectancy if you do it four times a month .	他們全部都屬於一個以信仰為基礎的社群 , 一個月4到14年的預期壽命值得多出4次 。
and the biggest thing here is they also belong to the right tribe .	這裡最大的事情是他們也屬於對的部落 。
they were either born into or they proactively surrounded themselves with the right people .	他們不是生來就有孩子 , 就是他們主動圍繞在自己的周圍 , 和對的人在一起 。
we know from the framingham studies , that if your three best friends are obese there is a 50 percent better chance that you'll be overweight .	我們從弗蘭明罕研究中得知 , 如果你的三位最好的朋友都過胖了 , 有50%的機率會讓你過重 。
so , if you hang out with unhealthy people , that's going to have a measurable impact over time .	所以 , 如果你和不健康的人在一起 , 隨著時間 , 會有顯著的影響 。
instead , if your friend's idea of recreation is physical activity , bowling , or playing hockey , biking or gardening , if your friends drink a little , but not too much , and they eat right , and they're engaged , and they're trusting and trustworthy , that is going to have the biggest impact over time .	相反的 , 如果你朋友的休閒活動是實體活動 , 保齡球 , 或打曲棍球 , 騎腳踏車或園藝 , 如果你的朋友喝了一點 , 但不多 , 他們吃得好 , 他們吃得好 , 而且信任和值得信任 , 那會隨著時間產生最大的影響 。
diets don't work . no diet in the history of the world has ever worked for more than two percent of the population .	減肥是行不通的 。 世界歷史上從來沒有任何飲食可以供應超過2%的人口 。
exercise programs usually start in january ; they're usually done by october .	運動計畫通常從一月開始 , 通常都是十月完成的 。
when it comes to longevity there is no short term fix in a pill or anything else .	談到壽命長壽 , 藥丸或其他任何東西都沒有短期的修復方式 。
but when you think about it , your friends are longterm adventures , and therefore , perhaps the most significant thing you can do to add more years to your life , and life to your years . thank you very much .	但當你想一想 , 你的朋友是長期的冒險 , 因此 , 也許你能做的最重要的事情是 , 多年的生命 , 非常謝謝你 。
ink that conducts electricity ; a window that turns from clear to opaque at the flip of a switch ; a jelly that makes music . all this stuff exists , and catarina mota says: it's time to play with it . mota leads us on a tour of surprising and cool new materials , and suggests that the way we'll figure out what they're good for is to experiment , tinker and have fun .	墨水是導電的一扇窗口 , 從明顯的窗口轉向開關的不透明 ; 一個會製造音樂的果凍 。 所有這些東西都存在 , 而且卡塔琳娜莫塔說:該是時候了 。 mota帶領我們參觀驚奇而酷的新材料 , 並建議我們找出它們的好處 , 去做實驗、修飾 , 和有趣的事 。
creativity , design , technology	創造力、設計、科技 。
catarina mota: play with smart materials	catarinamota:玩聰明的材料 。
i have a friend in portugal whose grandfather built a vehicle out of a bicycle and a washing machine so he could transport his family .	我有一個在葡萄牙的朋友 , 他的祖父用腳踏車和洗衣機建造了一台車 , 這樣他就可以運送他的家人 。
he did it because he couldn't afford a car , but also because he knew how to build one .	他這麼做是因為他買不起車 , 也因為他知道如何建造一台車 。
there was a time when we understood how things worked and how they were made , so we could build and repair them , or at the very least make informed decisions about what to buy .	曾經有段時間 , 我們明白事情是如何運作的 , 如何製作的 , 如此一來 , 我們就能建立並修復它們 , 或至少有知情地知道要買什麼 。
many of these doityourself practices were lost in the second half of the 20th century .	在二十世紀後半葉 , 許多這些塗鴉做法都被遺忘了 。
but now , the maker community and the opensource model are bringing this kind of knowledge about how things work and what they're made of back into our lives , and i believe we need to take them to the next level , to the components things are made of .	但現在 , 自造者社群和開放原始碼的模型正把這些知識帶到我們生活中 , 了解事物是如何運作的 , 以及它們是什麼組成的 。 我相信 , 我們需要把它們帶到下一個階段 , 到組成的組成階段 。
for the most part , we still know what traditional materials like paper and textiles are made of and how they are produced .	大部分時候 , 我們仍然知道紙張和紡織品的傳統材料是由什麼製成的 , 以及它們是如何生產的 。
but now we have these amazing , futuristic composites plastics that change shape , paints that conduct electricity , pigments that change color , fabrics that light up .	但現在我們有了這些令人驚奇、未來化的複合材料 , 可以改變形狀 , 能導電的顏料 , 可以改變顏色的顏色 , 可以發光的織物 。
let me show you some examples .	讓我給你們看一些例子 。
so conductive ink allows us to paint circuits instead of using the traditional printed circuit boards or wires .	導電油墨讓我們不用傳統印刷電路或電線來繪製電路 。
in the case of this little example i'm holding , we used it to create a touch sensor that reacts to my skin by turning on this little light .	在這個我手上拿著的小例子中 , 我們用它來創造一個觸控感應器 , 藉由開啟這個小光源 , 來對我的皮膚做出反應 。
conductive ink has been used by artists , but recent developments indicate that we will soon be able to use it in laser printers and pens .	藝術家使用導電油墨 , 但近期的發展顯示 , 我們很快就能在雷射印表機和筆中使用它 。
and this is a sheet of acrylic infused with colorless lightdiffusing particles .	這是一片加密器 , 裡面裝滿了無色光源的粒子 。
what this means is that , while regular acrylic only diffuses light around the edges , this one illuminates across the entire surface when i turn on the lights around it .	這意味著 , 雖然普通的aclic只會在邊緣散播光線 , 但當我開燈時 , 這個光會在整個表面上散發光線 。
two of the known applications for this material include interior design and multitouch systems .	這種材料的兩種應用包括室內設計和多點觸控系統 。
and thermochromic pigments change color at a given temperature .	在特定的溫度下 , 溫度會改變顏色 。
so i'm going to place this on a hot plate that is set to a temperature only slightly higher than ambient and you can see what happens .	我要把這個放在一個熱盤子上 , 裝在溫度上 , 只比環境的溫度稍高一些 , 你可以看到會發生什麼事 。
so one of the principle applications for this material is , amongst other things , in baby bottles , so it indicates when the contents are cool enough to drink .	所以 , 這種材料的其中一個原則是 , 在嬰兒奶瓶中 , 它會指示內容物是否酷到可以喝 。
so these are just a few of what are commonly known as smart materials .	這些只是一些常被稱為智慧型材料的東西 。
in a few years , they will be in many of the objects and technologies we use on a daily basis .	幾年後 , 它們會出現在我們日常使用的物品和科技當中 。
we may not yet have the flying cars science fiction promised us , but we can have walls that change color depending on temperature , keyboards that roll up , and windows that become opaque at the flick of a switch .	我們可能還沒有讓科幻小說裡的飛天車承諾過我們 , 但是我們有能隨著溫度改變顏色的牆壁 , 鍵盤會滾上去 , 窗戶會變得很不透明 , 在開關的瞬間 。
so i'm a social scientist by training , so why am i here today talking about smart materials ?	我是一名社會科學家 , 所以 , 為什麼我今天要來這裡談智慧型材料 ?
well first of all , because i am a maker .	首先 , 因為我是製造家 。
i'm curious about how things work and how they are made , but also because i believe we should have a deeper understanding of the components that make up our world , and right now , we don't know enough about these hightech composites our future will be made of .	我很好奇事情如何運作 , 如何製造 , 也因為我相信我們應該更深入了解組成我們的世界 , 而現在 , 我們對這些高科技複合物的了解不夠多 , 我們的未來會是由這些高科技組成的 。
smart materials are hard to obtain in small quantities .	智慧型材料在少量的情況下很難取得 。
there's barely any information available on how to use them , and very little is said about how they are produced .	幾乎沒有任何關於如何使用它們的資訊 , 幾乎沒有人知道它們是如何被製造出來的 。
so for now , they exist mostly in this realm of trade secrets and patents only universities and corporations have access to .	目前為止 , 它們的存在主要是商業秘密和專利 , 只有大學和企業才能取得 。
so a little over three years ago , kirsty boyle and i started a project we called open materials .	大約三年前 , 奇絲.男孩和我開始了一個計畫 , 我們稱之為 「 開放式材料 」 。
it's a website where we , and anyone else who wants to join us , share experiments , publish information , encourage others to contribute whenever they can , and aggregate resources such as research papers and tutorials by other makers like ourselves .	在這個網站上 , 我們和任何想要加入我們的人 , 分享實驗、發佈資訊 , 鼓勵大家盡可能做出貢獻 , 並把資源結合起來 , 像是其他像我們一樣的自造者 , 像是研究論文和課程 。
we would like it to become a large , collectively generated database of doityourself information on smart materials .	我們希望它能成為一個大型、集體生成的資料庫 , 用在智慧型材料上的塗鴉資訊 。
but why should we care how smart materials work and what they are made of ?	但我們為什麼要在乎智慧型材料是如何運作的 ? 它們是由什麼組成的 ?
first of all , because we can't shape what we don't understand , and what we don't understand and use ends up shaping us .	首先 , 因為我們無法塑造我們不明白的 , 而我們不明白的 , 最終卻塑造了我們 。
the objects we use , the clothes we wear , the houses we live in , all have a profound impact on our behavior , health and quality of life .	我們使用的物品、穿著的衣服、住的房子 , 都對我們的行為、健康和生活品質有深遠的影響 。
so if we are to live in a world made of smart materials , we should know and understand them .	所以如果我們活在一個由智慧型材料構成的世界 , 我們應該要了解並理解它們 。
secondly , and just as important , innovation has always been fueled by tinkerers .	第二 , 同樣重要的是 , 創新總是被tinker公司推動 。
so many times , amateurs , not experts , have been the inventors and improvers of things ranging from mountain bikes to semiconductors , personal computers , airplanes .	很多時候 , 業餘人士 , 不是專家 , 都是發明家和改進者 , 從登山腳踏車到半導體、個人電腦、飛機等 。
the biggest challenge is that material science is complex and requires expensive equipment .	最大的挑戰是 , 材料科學是複雜的 , 需要昂貴的設備 。
but that's not always the case .	但事實並非如此 。
two scientists at university of illinois understood this when they published a paper on a simpler method for making conductive ink .	伊利諾州大學的兩位科學家了解這一點 , 當時他們發表了一篇文章 , 用比較簡單的方法製作導電墨水 。
jordan bunker , who had had no experience with chemistry until then , read this paper and reproduced the experiment at his maker space using only offtheshelf substances and tools .	jordanbunker , 在讀到這篇論文之前 , 他一直沒有化學經驗 , 並在他的自造者空間中重現這個實驗 , 只用現成的物質和工具 。
he used a toaster oven , and he even made his own vortex mixer , based on a tutorial by another scientist/maker .	他用烤箱 , 甚至做了他自己的旋渦混合器 , 基於另一位科學家/製造者的指導 。
jordan then published his results online , including all the things he had tried and didn't work , so others could study and reproduce it .	喬登接著在網路上發表了他的成果 , 包括他嘗試過、不成功過的所有方法 , 讓其他人可以學習並複製它 。
so jordan's main form of innovation was to take an experiment created in a wellequipped lab at the university and recreate it in a garage in chicago using only cheap materials and tools he made himself .	喬登的創新主要形式是將一個在大學設備良好的實驗室裡所創造出來的實驗在芝加哥的車庫裡 , 用他自己製作的便宜材料和工具來重現它 。
and now that he published this work , others can pick up where he left and devise even simpler processes and improvements .	現在 , 他發表了這個作品 , 其他人可以在他離開的地方 , 進行更簡單的處理和改善 。
another example i'd like to mention her project's goal is to highlight the expressive qualities of materials while focusing on the creativity and skills of the builder .	另外一個例子我想提一下她的專案的目標是要強調材料的表達性質同時著重在建造者的創造力和技能
electronics kits are very powerful in that they teach us how things work , but the constraints inherent in their design influence the way we learn .	電子裝置的功能非常強大 , 能教我們物件如何運作 , 但在設計中 , 內在的限制會影響我們學習的方式 。
so hannah's approach , on the other hand , is to formulate a series of techniques for creating unusual objects that free us from predesigned constraints by teaching us about the materials themselves .	另一方面 , 漢娜的做法是規劃一系列的技巧 , 來創造出不尋常的物體 , 透過教導我們關於材料本身的設計限制 , 來解放我們 。
so amongst hannah's many impressive experiments , this is one of my favorites .	在漢娜許多令人印象深刻的實驗中 , 這是我最喜歡的一個 。
[ " paper speakers " ] what we're seeing here is just a piece of paper with some copper tape on it connected to an mp3 player and a magnet .	[紙喇叭]我們現在看到的只是一張紙 , 上面有銅線 , 和mp3播放器和磁鐵連接起來 。
so based on the research by marcelo coelho from mit , hannah created a series of paper speakers out of a wide range of materials from simple copper tape to conductive fabric and ink .	所以 , 根據麻省理工學院的marcelocoelho的研究 , 漢娜製作了一系列的紙喇叭 , 用各式各樣的材料 , 從簡單的銅膠帶 , 到導電的布料和墨水 。
just like jordan and so many other makers , hannah published her recipes and allows anyone to copy and reproduce them .	就像喬登和其他許多製造者一樣 , 漢娜出版了她的食譜 , 讓任何人都可以複製和複製 。
but paper electronics is one of the most promising branches of material science in that it allows us to create cheaper and flexible electronics .	但紙電子是最有前景的材料科學分支之一 , 讓我們能創造出便宜又有彈性的電子產品 。
so hannah's artisanal work , and the fact that she shared her findings , opens the doors to a series of new possibilities that are both aesthetically appealing and innovative .	漢娜的工藝工作 , 還有她共享的發現 , 打開了一系列新的可能性 , 既既有美感又有創意 。
so the interesting thing about makers is that we create out of passion and curiosity , and we are not afraid to fail .	所以 , 製造者有趣的是 , 我們創造出了熱情和好奇心 , 而我們不怕失敗 。
we often tackle problems from unconventional angles , and , in the process , end up discovering alternatives or even better ways to do things .	我們常常從不尋常的角度來處理問題 , 在過程中 , 我們發現了替代方案 , 或甚至更好的方式來做事 。
so the more people experiment with materials , the more researchers are willing to share their research , and manufacturers their knowledge , the better chances we have to create technologies that truly serve us all .	所以越多人用材料做實驗 , 研究者就越願意分享他們的研究 , 並製造出他們的知識 , 我們就越有可能創造出能服務我們所有人的科技 。
so i feel a bit as ted nelson must have when , in the early 1970s , he wrote , " you must understand computers now . "	我覺得tednelson在1970年代早期就寫了: 「 你現在一定要懂電腦了 。 」
back then , computers were these large mainframes only scientists cared about , and no one dreamed of even having one at home .	當時 , 電腦是大型的主體系 , 只有科學家在乎 , 沒有人在家裡有一台 。
so it's a little strange that i'm standing here and saying , " you must understand smart materials now . "	所以有點奇怪 , 我站在這裡 , 說: 「 你現在必須要了解智慧型材料了 。 」
just keep in mind that acquiring preemptive knowledge about emerging technologies is the best way to ensure that we have a say in the making of our future .	請記住 , 學習新興科技的先入為主的知識是確保我們能在未來發聲最好的方法 。
when we drive , we get into a glass bubble , lock the doors and press the accelerator , relying on our eyes to guide us even though we can only see the few cars ahead of and behind us . but what if cars could share data with each other about their position and velocity , and use predictive models to calculate the safest routes for everyone on the road ? jennifer healey imagines a world without accidents .	當我們開車時 , 我們進入一個玻璃泡泡 , 鎖上門 , 按下加速器 , 依靠我們的眼睛來引導我們儘管我們只能看到前方的幾輛車 。 但如果車能彼此分享資料 , 分享他們的位置和速度 , 用預測模型來計算路上所有人的最安全的路線 , 用珍妮佛的想像沒有意外的世界發生 。
jennifer healey: if cars could talk , accidents might be avoidable	珍妮佛:如果車子能說話 , 意外事故可能會被避免 。
let's face it: driving is dangerous .	面對現實吧:開車是很危險的 。
it's one of the things that we don't like to think about , but the fact that religious icons and good luck charms show up on dashboards around the world betrays the fact that we know this to be true .	這是我們不喜歡去思考的事情之一 , 但事實是 , 宗教圖標和好運氣魅力出現在全世界的儀表板上 , 背叛我們知道這是真的 。
car accidents are the leading cause of death in people ages 16 to 19 in the united states leading cause of death and 75 percent of these accidents have nothing to do with drugs or alcohol .	車禍是美國16歲到19歲的死因 , 車禍是造成死亡的主因 , 其中75%的車禍與毒品或酒精無關 。
no one can say for sure , but i remember my first accident .	沒有人能肯定地說出 , 但我記得我的第一次意外 。
i was a young driver out on the highway , and the car in front of me , i saw the brake lights go on .	在高速公路上 , 我是年輕的駕駛人 , 在我面前的車子 , 我看到煞車燈亮了 。
i'm like , " okay , all right , this guy is slowing down , i'll slow down too . "	我說: 「 好 , 這傢伙慢了下來 , 我也慢了下來 。 」
i step on the brake .	我踏上煞車 。
but no , this guy isn't slowing down .	但 , 不 , 這傢伙並沒有慢下來 。
this guy is stopping , dead stop , dead stop on the highway .	這傢伙在高速公路上停了下來 , 死了 , 在高速公路上死了 。
it was just going 65 to zero ?	只剩65 ~ 0 ?
i slammed on the brakes .	我按了煞車 。
i felt the abs kick in , and the car is still going , and it's not going to stop , and i know it's not going to stop , and the air bag deploys , the car is totaled , and fortunately , no one was hurt .	我感覺到abs踢進來 , 車子還在運作 , 而且它不會停下來 , 我知道它不會停下來 , 空氣袋子的部署 , 車子全部完整了 , 幸運的是 , 沒有任何人受傷 。
but i had no idea that car was stopping , and i think we can do a lot better than that .	但我不知道那輛車停了下來 , 我認為我們可以做得更好 。
i think we can transform the driving experience by letting our cars talk to each other .	我想 , 我們可以改變駕駛經驗 , 讓汽車彼此對話 。
i just want you to think a little bit about what the experience of driving is like now .	我只是想讓你們稍微思考一下現在的駕駛經驗 。
get into your car . close the door . you're in a glass bubble .	進入你的車 , 關上門 。 你在一個玻璃泡泡裡 。
you can't really directly sense the world around you .	你無法直接感受周遭的世界 。
you're in this extended body .	你在這個延伸的身體裡 。
you're tasked with navigating it down partiallyseen roadways , in and amongst other metal giants , at superhuman speeds .	你的任務是用分散式路徑來導航 , 在其他的金屬巨人之中 , 在超人的速度之中 。
okay ? and all you have to guide you are your two eyes .	好嗎 ? 你只需要指導你兩隻眼睛 。
okay , so that's all you have , eyes that weren't really designed for this task , but then people ask you to do things like , you want to make a lane change , what's the first thing they ask you do ?	好 , 這就是你所有的眼睛 , 不是為這個任務而設計的 , 但人們會問你做這樣的事 , 像是 , 你想要做改變 , 第一件事他們要你做的事是什麼 ?
take your eyes off the road . that's right .	把你的眼睛從路上移開 , 沒錯 。
stop looking where you're going , turn , check your blind spot , and drive down the road without looking where you're going .	別看你要去哪裡 , 轉 , 檢查你的盲點 , 不看你要去哪裡 。
you and everyone else . this is the safe way to drive .	你和其他人 。 這是安全的駕駛方式 。
why do we do this ? because we have to , we have to make a choice , do i look here or do i look here ?	為什麼要這樣做 ? 因為我們必須必須選擇 , 我是看這裡還是看這裡 ?
and usually we do a fantastic job picking and choosing what we attend to on the road .	通常我們在路上做一個很棒的工作 , 選擇我們要走的路 。
but occasionally we miss something .	但偶爾我們會漏掉一些東西 。
occasionally we sense something wrong or too late .	偶爾我們會覺得不對勁或太遲了 。
in countless accidents , the driver says , " i didn't see it coming . "	在無數次的意外中 , 司機說: 「 我沒看到它來了 。 」
and i believe that . i believe that .	我相信 。 我相信 。
we can only watch so much .	我們只能看太多 。
but the technology exists now that can help us improve that .	但現有的科技可以幫助我們改善這一點 。
in the future , with cars exchanging data with each other , we will be able to see not just three cars ahead and three cars behind , to the right and left , all at the same time , bird's eye view , we will actually be able to see into those cars .	在未來 , 有了汽車交換資料 , 我們不僅能看到前面三台車 , 後面三輛車 , 左邊和左邊 , 同時 , 鳥瞰眼睛 , 我們還能看到車子裡的車 。
we will be able to see the velocity of the car in front of us , to see how fast that guy's going or stopping .	我們能夠看到前面車輛的速度 , 看看前面的車子走得多快或停止 。
if that guy's going down to zero , i'll know .	如果那個傢伙要去零分 , 我會知道 。
and with computation and algorithms and predictive models , we will be able to see the future .	有了計算和演算法和預測模型 , 我們就能看到未來 。
you may think that's impossible .	你可能會認為這是不可能的 。
how can you predict the future ? that's really hard .	你要如何預測未來 ? 這真的很困難 。
actually , no . with cars , it's not impossible .	其實 , 不 , 車子的確不可能 。
cars are threedimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity .	汽車是三維的物體 , 有固定的位置和速度 。
they travel down roads .	它們沿著路行走 。
often they travel on prepublished routes .	通常他們會在已出版的路線上旅行 。
it's really not that hard to make reasonable predictions about where a car's going to be in the near future .	要合理地預測在不久的將來汽車會在哪裡是很困難的 。
even if , when you're in your car and some motorcyclist comes bshoom ! 85 miles an hour down , lanesplitting i know you've had this experience that guy didn't " just come out of nowhere . "	即使你在車上 , 機車上 , 每小時85英里外 , 車道降落 , 車道降落--我知道你有過這個經驗--那個人不是 「 無中生有 」 。
that guy's been on the road probably for the last half hour .	那傢伙可能已經在路上跑了半小時了 。
right ? i mean , somebody's seen him .	對嗎 ? 我的意思是 , 有人看過他 。
ten , 20 , 30 miles back , someone's seen that guy , and as soon as one car sees that guy and puts him on the map , he's on the map position , velocity , good estimate he'll continue going 85 miles an hour .	10 , 20 , 30英里後 , 有人看到那傢伙 , 當一輛車看到那傢伙 , 把他放在地圖上時 , 他的速度很快 , 估計他會以每小時85英里的速度繼續前進 。
you'll know , because your car will know , because that other car will have whispered something in his ear , like , " by the way , five minutes , motorcyclist , watch out . "	你會知道 , 因為你的車會知道 , 因為那輛車會在他的耳朵中小聲說出: 「 順道一提 , 五分鐘後 , 摩托車 , 請小心 。 」
you can make reasonable predictions about how cars behave .	你可以合理的預測汽車的行為 。
i mean , they're newtonian objects .	我的意思是 , 它們是牛頓的物體 。
that's very nice about them .	對他們來說 , 這是很棒的 。
so how do we get there ?	所以 , 我們要如何做到 ?
we can start with something as simple as sharing our position data between cars , just sharing gps .	我們可以從簡單的開始 , 分享我們車子之間的位置 , 只是分享gps 。
if i have a gps and a camera in my car , i have a pretty precise idea of where i am and how fast i'm going .	如果我有一台gps和一台攝影機 , 我就能很精確的知道我在哪裡 , 還有我多快的前進 。
with computer vision , i can estimate where the cars around me are , sort of , and where they're going .	有了電腦視覺 , 我就可以估計我身邊的車子在哪裡 , 以及它們往哪裡去 。
and same with the other cars .	其他車也一樣 。
they can have a precise idea of where they are , and sort of a vague idea of where the other cars are .	他們可以精確地知道他們在哪裡 , 對於其他車輛的位置 , 有點模糊的概念 。
what happens if two cars share that data , if they talk to each other ?	如果兩輛汽車共享那些數據 , 如果它們彼此交談 , 會如何 ?
i can tell you exactly what happens .	我可以告訴你會發生什麼事 。
professor bob wang and his team have done computer simulations of what happens when fuzzy estimates combine , even in light traffic , when cars just share gps data , and we've moved this research out of the computer simulation and into robot test beds that have the actual sensors that are in cars now on these robots: stereo cameras , gps , and the twodimensional laser range finders that are common in backup systems .	鮑勃wang教授和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 估計當混亂的估算結合在一起時 , 甚至在輕鬆的交通流中 , 當汽車只是分享gps的數據時 , 我們把這項研究從電腦模擬中移到機械測試床上 , 裡面有真實的感應器 , 現在在這些機械上:立體攝影機、gps , 以及2d雷射測量器 , 這些都是很常見的系統 。
we also attach a discrete shortrange communication radio , and the robots talk to each other .	我們還安裝了一台短距的無線電設備 , 讓機器人彼此對話 。
when these robots come at each other , they track each other's position precisely , and they can avoid each other .	當這些機器人互相靠近時 , 它們會精確地追蹤彼此的位置 , 且它們能避免彼此 。
we're now adding more and more robots into the mix , and we encountered some problems .	我們現在在這個組合中加入越來越多的機器人 , 我們遇到了一些問題 。
one of the problems , when you get too much chatter , it's hard to process all the packets , so you have to prioritize , and that's where the predictive model helps you .	其中一個問題是 , 當你的聊天太多時 , 很難處理所有的包裝 , 所以你得要優先考慮 , 那就是預測模型能協助你的地方 。
if your robot cars are all tracking the predicted trajectories , you don't pay as much attention to those packets .	如果你的機械汽車都在追蹤預測的軌跡 , 你不會注意到那些包裝 。
you prioritize the one guy who seems to be going a little off course .	你把一個看起來有點偏離航線的傢伙排在第一位 。
that guy could be a problem .	那傢伙可能是個問題 。
and you can predict the new trajectory .	你可以預測新的軌跡 。
so you don't only know that he's going off course , you know how .	所以你不只知道他會偏離航線 , 你知道的 。
and you know which drivers you need to alert to get out of the way .	而且你知道你需要警告哪些駕駛 , 才能離開 。
and we wanted to do how can we best alert everyone ?	我們想要怎麼做 , 我們要如何警告大家 ?
how can these cars whisper , " you need to get out of the way ? "	這些汽車怎麼會小聲說: 「 你需要走出去 ? 」
well , it depends on two things: one , the ability of the car , and second the ability of the driver .	這取決於兩件事:第一 , 車的能力 , 第二 , 駕駛的能力 。
if one guy has a really great car , but they're on their phone or , you know , doing something , they're not probably in the best position to react in an emergency .	如果一個人有一輛很棒的車 , 但他們在手機上或者 , 你知道的 , 做點什麼 , 他們可能不是在緊急情況下做出最好的反應 。
so we started a separate line of research doing driver state modeling .	所以 , 我們成立了一系列的研究 , 做 「 司機州立模式 」 。
and now , using a series of three cameras , we can detect if a driver is looking forward , looking away , looking down , on the phone , or having a cup of coffee .	現在 , 使用三台攝影機一系列的鏡頭 , 我們可以偵測出駕駛向前看 , 向下看 , 看手機 , 或喝杯咖啡 。
we can predict the accident and we can predict who , which cars , are in the best position to move out of the way to calculate the safest route for everyone .	我們可以預測意外發生 , 我們可以預測是誰 , 哪輛車是最好的位置 , 可以走出去 , 為每個人計算最安全的路線 。
fundamentally , these technologies exist today .	基本上 , 現今這些技術是存在的 。
i think the biggest problem that we face is our own willingness to share our data .	我認為我們面對的最大問題是我們自願分享我們的資料的意願 。
i think it's a very disconcerting notion , this idea that our cars will be watching us , talking about us to other cars , that we'll be going down the road in a sea of gossip .	我想這是個非常令人不安的概念 , 我們的車子會看著我們 , 和其他車子對話 , 我們會走在一片八卦海洋中 。
but i believe it can be done in a way that protects our privacy , just like right now , when i look at your car from the outside , i don't really know about you .	但我相信 , 它可以用一種方式來保護我們的隱私 , 就像現在 , 當我從外面看你的車時 , 我不太了解你 。
if i look at your license plate number , i don't really know who you are .	如果我看你的牌照數字 , 我不會知道你是誰 。
i believe our cars can talk about us behind our backs .	我相信我們的車子可以在我們的背後談論我們 。
and i think it's going to be a great thing .	我認為這將會是件很棒的事 。
i want you to consider for a moment if you really don't want the distracted teenager behind you to know that you're braking , that you're coming to a dead stop .	我想請各位思考一下 , 如果你真的不希望你背後那個被分心的青少年 , 知道你在煞車 , 知道你正要來到死胡同 。
by sharing our data willingly , we can do what's best for everyone .	透過願意分享我們的資料 , 我們可以為每個人做到最好 。
so let your car gossip about you .	所以 , 讓你的車停下來談你 。
it's going to make the roads a lot safer .	它會讓道路更安全 。
x prize founder peter diamandis talks about how he helped stephen hawking fulfill his dream of going to space by flying together into the upper atmosphere and experiencing weightlessness at zero g .	xprize的創辦人彼得.戴曼迪斯談到他如何協助史蒂芬•霍金完成了他上太空的夢想 , 讓他搭上大氣層 , 體驗到0g的無重力 。
business , flight , science , short talk , space , technology , universe	商業、飛行、科學、簡短的談話、空間、科技、宇宙 ,
peter diamandis on stephen hawking in zero g	彼得.戴曼迪斯在史蒂芬•霍金的零g00gro霍金 , 彼得•戴曼迪斯 。
those of you who know me know how passionate i am about opening the space frontier .	認識我的人都知道我有多熱衷打開太空邊境 。
so when i had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity , it was incredible .	所以當我有機會給這個世界的重力專家無重力的經驗時 , 真是令人難以置信 。
and i want to tell you that story .	我想告訴你們這個故事 。
i first met him through the archon x prize for genomics .	我第一次見到他是基因組學的archonxprize 。
it's a competition we're holding , the second x prize , for the first team to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days .	這是我們現在所舉辦的競賽 , 第二個xprize , 目的是為了在10天內完成100個人類基因組定序 。
we have something called the genome 100 100 individuals we're sequencing as part of that .	我們有所謂的 「 基因組100個獨立個體 」 , 我們將它定序為其中的一部分 。
craig venter chairs that event .	克雷格•凡特是那場活動的主席 。
and i met professor hawking , and he said his dream was to travel into space .	我遇到了霍金教授 , 他說他的夢想是去太空旅行 。
and i said , " i can't take you there , but i can take you into weightlessness into zerog .	我說: 「 我不能帶你到那裡 , 但我能帶你進入無重力的世界 。
and he said , on the spot , " absolutely , yes . "	他說: 「 絕對是的 。 」
well , the only way to experience zerog on earth is actually with parabolic flight , weightless flight .	要體驗地球上零度的唯一方法 , 其實是用拋物線飛行、無重力飛行 。
you take an airplane , you fly over the top , you're weightless for 25 seconds .	你搭乘飛機 , 飛越頂部 , 重達25秒 。
come back down , you weigh twice as much .	回到下面 , 你的體重是兩倍 。
you do it again and again .	你一次又一次地這樣做 。
you can get eight , 10 minutes of weightlessness how nasa's trained their astronauts for so long .	你可以得到8、10分鐘的無重力 , 美國太空總署長久以來都在訓練太空人 。
we set out to do this .	我們打算這麼做 。
it took us 11 years to become operational .	我們花了11年才開始營運 。
and we announced that we were going to fly stephen hawking .	我們宣布要飛史蒂芬•霍金 。
we had one government agency and one company aircraft operator say , you're crazy , don't do that , you're going kill the guy .	我們有一間政府機構 , 一間航空公司的操作員說 , 你瘋了 , 別這樣做 , 你要殺了那傢伙 。
and he wanted to go .	他想去 。
we worked hard to get all the permissions .	我們努力取得所有的許可 。
and six months later , we sat down at kennedy space center .	六個月後 , 我們在甘迺迪太空中心坐下來 。
we had a press conference , we announced our intent to do one zerog parabola , give him 25 seconds of zerog .	我們開了一場記者會 , 我們宣布了我們想要做一個0的拋物面鏡 , 給他25秒的0g 。
and if it went really well , we might do three parabolas .	如果進行得非常好 , 我們可能會做三個拋物面鏡 。
well , we asked him why he wanted to go up and do this .	我們問他為什麼他要上去做這件事 。
and what he said , for me , was very moving .	對我來說 , 他說的非常感人 。
he said , " life on earth is at an everincreasing risk of being wiped out by disaster . . .	他說: 「 地球上的生命正面臨著被災難摧毀的風險不斷增加 ,
i think the human race doesn't have a future if it doesn't go into space .	我認為人類的未來沒有進入太空的未來 。
i therefore want to encourage public interest in space . "	因此我想要鼓勵公眾對太空的興趣 。 」
we took him out to the kennedy space center , up inside the nasa vehicle , into the back of the zerog airplane .	我們帶他到甘迺迪太空中心 , 在太空總署的車內 , 進入0g飛機的後面 。
we had about 20 people who made donations we raised $150 , 000 in donations for children's charities who flew with us .	我們有約二十個人捐款 , 我們捐款給十五萬美金的兒童慈善機構 , 他們和我們一起飛 。
a few tedsters here .	這裡有幾個tedster 。
we set up a whole er .	我們設立了整個急診室 。
we had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane .	我們有四個急診室醫生和兩位護士在飛機上 。
we were monitoring his po2 of his blood , his heart rate , his blood pressure .	我們監控他的血液、他的心跳、他的血壓 。
we had everything all set in case of an emergency ; god knows , you don't want to hurt this worldrenowned expert .	以緊急情況為例 , 天曉得 , 你不想傷害這個世界知名的專家 。
we took off from the shuttle landing facility , where the shuttle takes off and lands .	我們從太空梭降落設施起飛 , 太空梭降落的地方 。
and my partner byron lichtenberg and i carefully suspended him into zerog .	我和我的夥伴donlichtenberg小心地將他吊在零 。
once he was there , [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like .	一旦他在那兒 , 我們就讓他體驗無重力是什麼樣子的 。
and after that first parabola , you know , the doc said everything is great . he was smiling , and we said go .	在第一個拋物面鏡之後 , 你知道 , 醫生說一切都很棒 。 他在微笑 , 然後我們說開始 。
so we did a second parabola .	所以我們做了第二個拋物面鏡 。
we actually floated an apple in homage to sir isaac newton because professor hawking holds the same chair at cambridge that isaac newton did .	我們其實是把一顆蘋果當成向牛頓爵士致敬的蘋果 , 因為霍金教授在波士頓劍橋有同樣的椅子 。
and we did a fourth , and a fifth and a sixth .	我們做了第四次 , 第五次和第六次 。
and a seventh and an eighth .	第七個和第八個 。
and this man does not look like a 65yearold wheelchairbound man .	這個人看起來不像一個65歲的輪椅男子 。
he was so happy .	他非常開心 。
we are living on a precious jewel , and it's during our lifetime that we're moving off this planet .	我們住在一顆珍貴的珠寶上 , 在我們一生中 , 我們要離開這個星球 。
please join us in this epic adventure .	請加入這個史詩般的冒險旅程 。
medical animator david bolinsky presents 3 minutes of stunning animation that show the bustling life inside a cell .	醫學動畫師davidbolinsky有3分鐘驚人的動畫展現在一個細胞內的忙碌生活
design , entertainment , film , health , medicine , science , technology , visualizations	設計 , 娛樂 , 電影 , 健康 , 醫學 , 科學 , 科技 , 視覺化 。
david bolinsky animates a cell	davidbolinsky動畫了一個細胞
i'm a medical illustrator , and i come from a slightly different point of view .	我是一個醫學插圖師 , 從一個稍微不同的觀點來看 。
i've been watching , since i grew up , the expressions of truth and beauty in the arts and truth and beauty in the sciences .	自從我長大以來 , 我一直在觀察 , 在藝術、真與美的表現 , 以及科學中的真與美 。
and while these are both wonderful things in their own right they both have very wonderful things going for them truth and beauty as ideals that can be looked at by the sciences and by math are almost like the ideal conjoined twins that a scientist would want to date .	雖然這些都是他們自己的美好事物 , 但它們都有很美好的事物 , 可以用科學和數學來當理想的美麗事物 , 幾乎就像是理想的結合雙胞胎 , 科學家想要和他們約會 。
these are expressions of truth as awefull things , by meaning they are things you can worship .	這些是真實的表達方式 , 令人敬佩的事物 , 意思是 , 它們是你能崇拜的事物 。
they are ideals that are powerful . they are irreducible .	它們是理想的、強大的、無法分解的 。
they are unique . they are useful sometimes , often a long time after the fact .	它們是獨一無二的 , 有時很有用 , 通常 , 在事實之後很長一段時間 。
and you can actually roll some of the pictures now , because i don't want to look at me on the screen .	現在你們可以播放一些照片 , 因為我不想在螢幕上看著我 。
truth and beauty are things that are often opaque to people who are not in the sciences .	真與美往往對那些不在科學領域的人來說是不透明的 。
they are things that describe beauty in a way that is often only accessible if you understand the language and the syntax of the person who studies the subject in which truth and beauty is expressed .	它們是用來描述美的事物 , 這種方式通常只有當你了解語言以及研究真相和美麗的語法時 , 才會被用它來描述 。
if you look at the math , e=mc squared , if you look at the cosmological constant , where there's an anthropic ideal , where you see that life had to evolve from the numbers that describe the universe these are things that are really difficult to understand .	如果你看數學 , e=mc平方 , 如果你看宇宙常數 , 那裡有一個人類學的理想 , 你看到生命從描述宇宙的數字中進化出這些是很難理解的 。
and what i've tried to do since i had my training as a medical illustrator since i was taught animation by my father , who was a sculptor and my visual mentor i wanted to figure out a way to help people understand truth and beauty in the biological sciences by using animation , by using pictures , by telling stories so that the things that are not necessarily evident to people can be brought forth , and can be taught , and can be understood .	自從我當了醫學插圖師的訓練之後 , 我就想做的事 , 自從我被教導動畫師動畫 , 他是一位雕塑家 , 也是我的視覺導師 , 我試圖找出一種方法 , 來幫助人們了解生物科學中的真與美 , 透過動畫 , 透過圖片 , 來了解故事 , 那些對人們來說不一定是有證據的 , 可以被帶到這裡 , 並且被教導 。
students today are often immersed in an environment where what they learn is subjects that have truth and beauty embedded in them , but the way they're taught is compartmentalized and it's drawn down to the point where the truth and beauty are not always evident .	現今的學生通常沉浸在一個環境中 , 他們所學到的主題中 , 有著真與美 , 被嵌入其中 , 但他們被教導的做法是不完整的 , 且被縮小到不見得是事實和美麗的等級 。
it's almost like that old recipe for chicken soup where you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone .	就好像雞湯的老式食譜 , 你煮雞肉 , 直到香味消失 。
we don't want to do that to our students .	我們不想對學生這樣做 。
so we have an opportunity to really open up education .	所以我們有機會真正開放的教育 。
and i had a telephone call from robert lue at harvard , in the molecular and cellular biology department , a couple of years ago . he asked me if my team and i would be interested and willing to really change how medical and scientific education is done at harvard .	幾年前 , 我在哈佛大學分子和行動生物學系 , 打電話給robertlue 。 他問我 , 我和我的團隊有興趣 , 願意改變哈佛大學的醫學和科學教育方式 。
so we embarked on a project that would explore the cell that would explore the truth and beauty inherent in molecular and cellular biology so that students could understand a larger picture that they could hang all of these facts on .	所以 , 我們開始了一個計畫 , 來探索細胞 , 來探索分子和細胞生物學中的真與美 , 如此一來 , 學生就能了解一個更大的圖片 , 可以把這些事實掛在身上 。
they could have a mental image of the cell as a large , bustling , hugely complicated city that's occupied by micromachines .	他們可能對細胞的印象是一座巨大的、破壞的、極為複雜的城市 , 由微機械人佔據的 。
and these micromachines really are at the heart of life .	而這些微機械真的是生命的核心 。
these micromachines , which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over , are selfdirected , powerful , precise , accurate devices that are made out of strings of amino acids .	這些微機械人 , 微機械人是世界各地奈米科技專家的嫉妒 , 都是自我導向、強大、精準的裝置 , 這些裝置是由胺基酸的弦所組成的 。
and these micromachines power how a cell moves .	這些微機械能讓細胞移動 。
they power how a cell replicates . they power our hearts .	它們能賦予細胞複製的力量 。 它們能激發我們的心 。
they power our minds .	它們能激發我們的心智 。
and so what we wanted to do was to figure out how we could make this story into an animation that would be the centerpiece of biovisions at harvard , which is a website that harvard has for its molecular and cellular biology students that will in addition to all the textual information , in addition to all the didactic stuff put everything together visually , so that these students would have an internalized view of what a cell really is in all of its truth and beauty , and be able to study with this view in mind , so that their imaginations would be sparked , so that their passions would be sparked and so that they would be able to go on and use these visions in their head to make new discoveries and to be able to find out , really , how life works .	所以 , 我們想要做的是 , 要想出要如何把這個故事變成動畫 , 讓它成為哈佛生物分裂的中心 , 它是一個哈佛大學的網站 , 用來做分子和細胞生物學學生的網站 , 除了所有的文字資訊 , 除了所有的文字資料 , 以外 , 所有的文字都能視覺化地組合在一起 , 所以 , 這些學生能夠內部看出細胞的真與美 , 並能夠研究這個想法 , 這樣他們就能被激發出去 , 這樣他們的生活 , 這樣他們就能被激發出生命 , 如此熱情 。
so we set out by looking at how these molecules are put together .	所以我們開始研究這些分子是如何組合在一起的 。
we worked with a theme , which is , you've got macrophages that are streaming down a capillary , and they're touching the surface of the capillary wall , and they're picking up information from cells that are on the capillary wall , and they are given this information that there's an inflammation somewhere outside , where they can't see and sense .	我們的主題是 , 巨噬細胞在微血管下流 , 它們會觸碰微血管壁的表面 , 它們會從微血管壁上收集信息 , 這些細胞在微血管壁上 , 被賦予信息 , 讓它們在外面某處有發炎的資訊 , 在那裡 , 它們看不到和感知不到 。
but they get the information that causes them to stop , causes them to internalize that they need to make all of the various parts that will cause them to change their shape , and try to get out of this capillary and find out what's going on .	但他們得到的資訊會讓他們停止 , 會讓他們內心內化 , 他們需要做出各種各樣的零件 , 來改變他們的形狀 , 試圖脫離這個微血管 , 找出發生了什麼事 。
so these molecular motors we had to work with the harvard scientists and databank models of the atomically accurate molecules and figure out how they moved , and figure out what they did .	所以這些分子馬達我們必須與哈佛的科學家及數據庫的模型一起研究 , 找出它們是如何移動的 , 找出它們是如何移動的 。
and figure out how to do this in a way that was truthful in that it imparted what was going on , but not so truthful that the compact crowding in a cell would prevent the vista from happening .	想出如何用一種真誠的方式來做這件事 , 讓它能在細胞內完整的群眾中做這件事 , 卻不太誠實 , 這樣就能避免視力發生 。
and so what i'm going to show you is a threeminute reader's digest version of the first aspect of this film that we produced . it's an ongoing project that's going to go another four or five years .	接下來我要給你們看的是我們製作的這部電影的第一部份 。 這是一個持續進行的專案計畫 , 將要再花上四到五年 。
and i want you to look at this and see the paths that the cell manufactures these little walking machines , they're called kinesins that take these huge loads that would challenge an ant in relative size .	請各位看看這個 , 看看細胞製造這些步行機器的路徑 , 它們被稱為驅動蛋白 , 負責大小相對的大量挑戰一隻螞蟻 。
run the movie , please .	請播放這部電影 。
but these machines that power the inside of the cells are really quite amazing , and they really are the basis of all life because all of these machines interact with each other .	但這些能驅動細胞內部的機器真的很了不起 , 它們真的是所有生命的基礎 , 因為所有這些機器都能彼此互動 。
they pass information to each other .	它們會彼此傳遞資訊 。
they cause different things to happen inside the cell .	它們會造成細胞內發生不同的事 。
and the cell will actually manufacture the parts that it needs on the fly , from information that's brought from the nucleus by molecules that read the genes .	細胞會在果蠅上製造出它需要的零件 , 用讀取基因的分子所傳遞的資訊來源 。
no life , from the smallest life to everybody here , would be possible without these little micromachines .	沒有生命 , 從最小的生命到每一個人 , 如果沒有這些小微機械 , 生命就有可能成真 。
in fact , it would really , in the absence of these machines , have made the attendance here , chris , really quite sparse .	事實上 , 在沒有這些機器的情況下 , 克里斯的出席率真的很高 。
this is the fedex delivery guy of the cell .	這是細胞中的fedex遞送人員 。
this little guy is called the kinesin , and he pulls a sack that's full of brand new manufactured proteins to wherever it's needed in the cell whether it's to a membrane , whether it's to an organelle , whether it's to build something or repair something .	這個小傢伙叫做 「 驅動蛋白 」 , 他把一袋滿是新的製造蛋白質的袋子拉到細胞所需的任何地方 , 不管是細胞膜 , 不管是與器官有關 , 不管是用來製造或修復東西 。
and each of us has about 100 , 000 of these things running around , right now , inside each one of your 100 trillion cells .	我們每個人身上都有大約10萬個這種東西正在跑來跑去 , 現在 , 每一百兆個細胞裡面都有 。
so no matter how lazy you feel , you're not really intrinsically doing nothing .	所以 , 不論你覺得有多懶惰 , 你在本質上什麼都不做 。
so what i want you to do when you go home is think about this , and think about how powerful our cells are .	所以當你們回家後 , 我希望你們想想這個 , 想想我們的細胞有多強大 。
and think about some of the things that we're learning about cellular mechanics .	想想我們正在學習的細胞機制 。
once we figure out all that's going on and believe me , we know almost a percent of what's going on once we figure out what's going on , we're really going to be able to have a lot of control over what we do with our health , with what we do with future generations , and how long we're going to live .	一旦我們搞懂了所有這些事 , 相信我 , 我們就知道將來發生了什麼事 , 一旦我們搞懂了發生了什麼事 , 我們就能掌控很多事情 , 了解我們對健康的影響 , 了解未來的世代 , 以及未來的壽命 。
and hopefully we'll be able to use this to discover more truth , and more beauty .	希望我們能用它來發現更多的真與美 。
but it's really quite amazing that these cells , these micromachines , are aware enough of what the cell needs that they do their bidding .	但 , 這些細胞 , 這些微機械 , 真的很神奇 , 它們知道細胞需要什麼 , 才能做到它們的棲息地 。
they work together . they make the cell do what it needs to do .	它們一起工作 , 讓細胞做它需要做的事 。
and their working together helps our bodies huge entities that they will never see function properly .	它們一起工作 , 協助我們身體的巨大團體 , 它們永遠不會看到有正常功能的實體 。
enjoy the rest of the show . thank you .	享受其他的節目 。 謝謝 。
becky blanton planned to live in her van for a year and see the country , but when depression set in and her freelance job ended , her camping trip turned into homelessness . in this intimate talk , she describes her experience of becoming one of america's working homeless .	貝琪.布蘭頓計畫在她的車上住一年 , 看這個國家 , 但當憂鬱出現時 , 她的露營之旅就結束了 , 在這個親密的演說中 , 她描述了成為一個美國無家可歸者的經歷 。
adventure , happiness , life , personal growth , poverty , social change , society , storytelling	冒險 , 快樂 , 生活 , 個人成長 , 貧窮 , 社會改變 , 說故事 。
becky blanton: the year i was homeless	beckyblanton:當時我無家可歸的那一年 。
i'm a writer and a journalist , and i'm also an insanely curious person , so in 22 years as a journalist , i've learned how to do a lot of new things .	我是作家 , 也是記者 , 我也是一個瘋狂的好奇人 , 所以身為記者 , 22年來 , 我學會了很多新東西 。
and three years ago , one of the things i learned how to do was to become invisible .	三年前 , 我學到的其中一件事就是變得隱形 。
i became one of the working homeless .	我成了無家可歸者 。
i quit my job as a newspaper editor after my father died in february of that same year , and decided to travel .	我辭掉了身為報紙編輯的工作 , 那年二月我父親去世 , 決定要去旅行 。
his death hit me pretty hard .	他的死亡讓我非常難受 。
and there were a lot of things that i wanted to feel and deal with while i was doing that .	當我在做這件事時 , 我有很多想要感受和處理的事情 。
i've camped my whole life . and i decided that living in a van for a year to do this would be like one long camping trip .	我一生都在露營 。 我決定住在一輛旅行車裡一年 , 要這樣做 , 大概要一趟漫長的露營旅行 。
so i packed my cat , my rottweiler and my camping gear into a 1975 chevy van , and drove off into the sunset , having fully failed to realize three critical things .	所以我打包了我的貓 , 羅威爾和我的露營裝備 , 打進1975年的雪佛蘭旅行車 , 然後開車到日落 , 完全沒意識到三件重要的事 。
one: that society equates living in a permanent structure , even a shack , with having value as a person .	第一 , 社會等同於永久的結構 , 甚至是一座小屋 , 以人的價值觀存在 。
two: i failed to realize how quickly the negative perceptions of other people can impact our reality , if we let it .	第二:我沒有意識到 , 其他人的負面看法有多快就能影響我們的現實 , 只要我們放手 , 就會影響我們的現實 。
three: i failed to realize that homelessness is an attitude , not a lifestyle .	第三:我沒有意識到無家可歸是一種態度 , 而不是生活方式 。
at first , living in the van was great .	一開始 , 住在旅行車上很棒 。
i showered in campgrounds . i ate out regularly .	我在難民營地洗澡 , 我常常會吃飯 。
and i had time to relax and to grieve .	我有時間放鬆和悲慟 。
but then the anger and the depression about my father's death set in .	但接著 , 父親的死亡讓我感到憤怒和沮喪 。
my freelance job ended . and i had to get a fulltime job to pay the bills .	我的自由工作結束了 。 我必須找一份全職的工作來支付帳單 。
what had been a really mild spring turned into a miserably hot summer .	真正溫和的春天 , 變成了非常熱的夏天 。
and it became impossible to park anywhere without being very obvious that i had a cat and a dog with me , and it was really hot .	到哪裡都不能停車 , 很明顯的我有隻貓和一隻狗 , 牠真的很熱 。
the cat came and went through an open window in the van .	貓從車窗穿過來 ,
the doggy went into doggy day care .	這隻狗進入了杜姬日照護中心 。
whenever i could , i used employee showers in office buildings and truck stops .	無論何時 , 我都可以用辦公大樓的員工淋浴間和卡車站 。
or i washed up in public rest rooms .	或者 , 我在公共廁所洗澡 。
nighttime temperatures in the van rarely dropped below 80 degrees fahrenheit , making it difficult or impossible to sleep .	夜間的車廂中很少在華氏80度以下 , 夜間的溫度會下降 , 讓它難以入眠 。
food rotted in the heat .	食物在熱中腐爛 。
ice in my ice chest melted within hours , and it was pretty miserable .	幾小時之內 , 冰層的冰層融化了 , 非常悲慘 。
i couldn't afford to find an apartment , or couldn't afford an apartment that would allow me to have the rottweiler and the cat .	我無法找到一間公寓 , 或無法負擔得起一間公寓 , 讓我能有一隻老虎和貓 。
and i refused to give them up , so i stayed in the van .	我拒絕放棄他們 , 所以我待在旅行車上 。
and when the heat made me too sick to walk the 50 feet to the public restroom outside my van at night , i used a bucket and a trash bag as a toilet .	當暖氣讓我病得無法在50英尺外的公共廁所走到我車外的公共廁所時 , 我用一個桶子和一個垃圾袋當作馬桶 。
when winter weather set in , the temperatures dropped below freezing . and they stayed there .	當冬天來臨時 , 溫度下降到凍結以下 , 溫度就在那裡 。
and i faced a whole new set of challenges .	我面對了一大堆新的挑戰 。
i parked a different place every night so i would avoid being noticed and hassled by the police .	我每天晚上都會停個不同的地方 , 這樣我就能避免被警察察察察察察察注意到和惹火 。
i didn't always succeed .	我並不總是成功 。
but i felt out of control of my life .	但我覺得自己無法掌控我的人生 。
and i don't know when or how it happened , but the speed at which i went from being a talented writer and journalist to being a homeless woman , living in a van , took my breath away .	我不知道何時、何時發生 , 但我從一個有才華的作家和記者 , 轉變成一名無家可歸的女人 , 住在一輛車裡 , 把我的呼吸帶走 。
i hadn't changed . my i . q . hadn't dropped .	我沒有變 。 我的智商沒有變 。
my talent , my integrity , my values , everything about me remained the same .	我的才華、我的誠信、我的價值觀 , 所有關於我的一切 , 都一樣 。
but i had changed somehow .	但我已經改變了 。
i spiraled deeper and deeper into a depression .	我在憂鬱症中越深入越深 。
and eventually someone referred me to a homeless health clinic .	最後有人把我稱為無家可歸的健康診所 。
and i went . i hadn't bathed in three days .	我去了 。 我已經三天沒洗澡了 。
i was as smelly and as depressed as anyone in line .	我跟排隊裡的任何人一樣聞起來也一樣沮喪 。
i just wasn't drunk or high .	我只是沒有醉酒或高潮 。
and when several of the homeless men realized that , including a former university professor , they said , " you aren't homeless . why are you really here ? "	當一些無家者了解到 , 包括前任大學教授 , 他們說: 「 你不是無家可歸的人 。 你為什麼會在這裡 ? 」
other homeless people didn't see me as homeless , but i did .	其他無家者並沒有把我視為無家可歸的人 , 但我卻把我視為無家可歸的人 。
then the professor listened to my story and he said , " you have a job . you have hope .	然後教授傾聽我的故事 , 他說: 「 你有一份工作 , 你有希望 。
the real homeless don't have hope . "	真正的無家者沒有希望 。 」
a reaction to the medication the clinic gave me for my depression left me suicidal . and i remember thinking , " if i killed myself , no one would notice . "	診所給我的藥的反應讓我自殺了 , 我記得當時在想: 「 如果我自殺了 , 沒有人會注意到 。 」
a friend told me , shortly after that , that she had heard that tim russert , a nationally renowned journalist , had been talking about me on national t . v .	不久之後 , 有一位朋友告訴我 , 她聽說提姆.羅素 , 一位全國知名的記者 , 一直在對我講國家電視節目 。
an essay i'd written about my father , the year before he died , was in tim's new book .	我寫了一篇關於我父親的文章 , 在他死前的那一年 , 在提姆的新書裡寫了一篇關於我父親的文章 。
and he was doing the talk show circuit . and he was talking about my writing .	他正在演說節目電路 。 他在談我的寫作 。
and when i realized that tim russert , former moderator of " meet the press , " was talking about my writing , while i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , i started laughing .	當我發現提姆•羅斯特 , 前主持人 「 見見媒體 」 的會談 , 當時我住在沃爾瑪停車場 , 我開始笑了 。
i started laughing because it got to the point where , was i a writer , or was i a homeless woman ?	我開始笑了 , 因為它到達了那個時候 , 我是一個作家 , 還是一個無家者 ?
so i went in the bookstore . and i found tim's book .	所以我進了書店 , 找到提姆的書
and i stood there . and i reread my essay .	我站在那裡 , 重新讀了我的文章 。
because i was a writer .	因為我是作家 。
i was a writer .	我是作家 。
shortly after that i moved back to tennessee .	在那之後不久 , 我搬回田納西 。
i alternated between living in a van and couch surfing with friends .	我和朋友住在旅行車上 , 和沙發上衝浪 。
and i started writing again .	我又開始寫作了 。
by the summer of the following year i was a working journalist .	隔年夏天 , 我是工作記者 。
i was winning awards . i was living in my own apartment .	我在贏得獎項 , 我住在自己的公寓裡 。
i was no longer homeless .	我不再無家可歸 。
and i was no longer invisible .	我不再被隱形了 。
thousands of people work full and parttime jobs , and live in their cars .	成千上萬的人全職和兼職工作 , 住在他們的車裡 。
but society continues to stigmatize and criminalize living in your vehicle or on the streets .	但社會持續汙名化和犯罪化住在你車上或街上 。
so the homeless , the working homeless , primarily remain invisible .	所以 , 無家者、無家者 , 主要還是看不見的 。
but if you ever meet one , engage them , encourage them , and offer them hope .	但如果你遇到他們 , 鼓勵他們 , 給他們希望 。
the human spirit can overcome anything if it has hope .	人類的精神可以克服任何希望 。
and i'm not here to be the poster girl for the homeless .	我不是來這裡做無家可歸的海報女孩 。
i'm not here to encourage you to give money to the next panhandler you meet .	我不是要鼓勵你們捐錢給下一個相遇的乞討者 。
but i am here to tell you that , based on my experience , people are not where they live , where they sleep , or what their life situation is at any given time .	但我來這裡是要告訴各位 , 根據我的經驗 , 人們不是住在哪裡 , 不論他們在哪裡睡覺 , 或是他們在任何時候的生活狀況 。
three years ago i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , and today i'm speaking at ted .	三年前 , 我住在一台沃爾瑪超市的停車場 , 今天我在ted演講 。
hope always , always finds a way . thank you .	希望總是找到方法 。 謝謝 。
at tedxchange , thailand's " mr . condom , " mechai viravaidya , walks us through the country's bold plan to raise its standard of living , starting in the 1970s . first step: population control . and that means a lot of frank , funny and very effective talk about condoms .	在泰國的泰國 , 泰國的 「 保險套先生 」 , 米奇維拉瓦迪亞 , 帶領我們走遍全國大膽的計畫 , 從1970年代開始 , 從人口控制開始 。 這代表著很多法蘭克、好笑 , 和非常有效的談論安全套 。
culture , global issues , health , population , science	文化、全球議題、健康、人口、科學 。
mechai viravaidya: how mr . condom made thailand a better place	墨西維拉瓦里亞:保險套先生是如何讓泰國變得更好 。
now , when i was a young man 40 years ago , the country was very , very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty .	40年前 , 當我還是個年輕人時 , 這個國家非常非常貧窮 , 有很多人生活在貧窮之中 。
we decided to do something about it , but we didn't begin with a welfare program or a poverty reduction program .	我們決定要為此做點什麼 , 但我們不是從福利方案開始 , 或是減少貧窮方案開始 。
but we began with a familyplanning program , following a very successful maternal child health activity , sets of activities .	但我們從一個家庭規劃計畫開始 , 遵循一個非常成功的母子健康活動 , 一系列的活動 。
so basically , no one would accept family planning if their children didn't survive .	所以 , 基本上 , 沒有人會接受家庭規劃 , 如果他們的孩子沒有生存下來 。
so the first step: get to the children , get to the mothers , and then follow up with family planning .	所以 , 第一步:帶到孩子面前 , 帶到母親面前 , 然後跟著家規劃 。
not just child mortality alone , you need also family planning .	不只是兒童死亡率 , 你還需要家庭規劃 。
now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it .	現在讓我帶各位回到為什麼我們需要這麼做 。
in my country , that was the case in 1974 .	在我的國家 , 那是1974年的情況 。
seven children per family tremendous growth at 3 . 3 percent .	每個家庭有7個孩子的成長率是3.3% 。
there was just no future .	只是沒有未來 。
we needed to reduce the population growth rate .	我們需要降低人口成長率 。
so we said , " let's do it . "	所以我們說: 「 我們來做吧 。 」
the women said , " we agree . we'll use pills , but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills , " and we had very , very few doctors .	婦女說: 「 我們同意 , 我們會用藥 , 但我們需要醫生來開藥 。 」 我們的醫生很少 。
we didn't take no as an answer ; we took no as a question .	我們沒有把 「 不 」 當作答案 ; 我們沒有把 「 不 」 當作一個問題 。
we went to the nurses and the midwives , who were also women , and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill .	我們去找護士和助產士 , 他們也是女人 , 他們在解釋如何使用藥丸時 , 做得很棒 。
that was wonderful , but it covered only 20 percent of the country .	那很棒 , 但它只涵蓋了全國20%的人口 。
what do we do for the other 80 percent leave them alone and say , " well , they're not medical personnel . "	另外百分之八十的人只會說: 「 嗯 , 他們不是醫療人員 。 」
no , we decided to do a bit more .	不 , 我們決定多做一點 。
so we went to the ordinary people that you saw .	所以我們去看了普通人 。
actually , below that yellow sign i wish they hadn't wiped that , because there was " cocacola " there .	實際上 , 在那黃色的標誌下--我希望他們沒有去過那片 , 因為那裡有 「 可口可樂 」 。
we were so much bigger than cocacola in those days .	當時我們比可口可樂還要大很多 。
and no difference , the people they chose were the people we chose .	沒有差別 , 他們選的對象是我們選的對象 。
they were wellknown in the community , they knew that customers were always right , and they were terrific , and they practiced their family planning themselves .	他們在社區中非常著名 , 他們知道顧客永遠是對的 , 他們很棒 , 且他們自己也在練習家庭規劃 。
so they could supply pills and condoms throughout the country , in every village of the country .	所以他們可以在全國各地的每個村莊都提供避孕藥和保險套 。
so there we are . we went to the people who were seen as the cause of the problem to be the solution .	所以 , 就這樣 。 我們去找那些被視為問題的成因的人 , 去做解決方案 。
wherever there were people and you can see boats with the women , selling things here's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives wherever you find people , you'll find contraceptives in thailand .	不論是哪裡有人 , 你都能看到和女人搭船 , 賣東西--這裡是漂浮市場--賣香蕉和螃蟹 , 還有避孕用品--不論你在哪裡找到人 , 你都會在泰國找到避孕用品 。
and then we decided , why not get to religion because in the philippines , the catholic church was pretty strong , and thai people were buddhist .	然後我們決定 , 何不去宗教呢 ? 因為在菲律賓 , 天主教會非常堅強泰國人民是佛教徒 。
we went to them and they said , " look , could you help us ? "	我們問他們: 「 聽著 , 你能幫我們嗎 ? 」
i'm there the one in blue , not the yellow holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to sprinkle holy water on pills and condoms for the sanctity of the family .	我是穿藍色衣服的 , 不是黃色的 , 手上拿著一碗聖水 , 讓和尚把神聖的水灑在避孕藥和保險套上 。
and this picture was sent throughout the country .	這張照片傳遍全國 。
so some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves .	村裡的一些僧侶也在做同樣的事 。
and the women were saying , " no wonder we have no sideeffects .	女人說: 「 難怪我們沒有副作用 。
it's been blessed . "	這已經是幸福的了 。 」
that was their perception .	那是他們的感知 。
and then we went to teachers .	然後我們去找老師 。
you need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place .	你需要每個人參與 , 試著提供任何能讓人類變得更好的地方 。
so we went to the teachers .	所以我們去找老師 。
over a quarter of a million were taught about family planning with a new alphabet a , b for birth , c for condom , i for iud , v for vasectomy .	超過25萬人被教導用新字母a、b、保險套、iud、v血管切除術 。
and then we had a snakes and ladders game , where you throw dice .	接著 , 我們有蛇和梯子遊戲 , 把骰子丟在那裡 。
if you land on anything profamily planning , you move ahead .	如果你在任何預先設定的計畫中登陸 , 你就往前走 。
like , " mother takes the pill every night .	例如: 「 母親每天晚上吃藥 。
very good , mother . move ahead .	非常好 , 母親 。 往前走 。
uncle buys a condom . very good , uncle . move ahead .	叔叔買了保險套 。 很好 , 舅舅 , 往前走 。
uncle gets drunk , doesn't use condom . come back , start again . "	叔叔喝醉了 , 不用保險套 , 再來一次 。 」
again , education , class entertainment .	再一次 , 教育、娛樂 。
and the kids were doing it in school too .	孩子們也在學校做同樣的事 。
we had relay races with condoms , we had children's condomblowing championship .	我們有和保險套的接力賽跑 , 我們有兒童保險套冠軍 。
and before long , the condom was know as the girl's best friend .	不久之後 , 保險套被稱為 「 女孩最好的朋友 」 。
in thailand , for poor people , diamonds don't make it so the condom is the girl's best friend .	在泰國 , 對窮人來說 , 鑽石並不會這樣保險套就是女孩最好的朋友 。
we introduced our first microcredit program in 1975 , and the women who organized it said , " we only want to lend to women who practice family planning .	我們在1975年推出了第一個小額貸款計畫 , 女性組織了它 , 說: 「 我們只想借助實踐家庭規劃的女性 。
if you're pregnant , take care of your pregnancy .	如果你懷孕了 , 照顧你的懷孕 。
if you're not pregnant , you can take a loan out from us . "	如果你還沒有懷孕 , 你就可以向我們借錢 。 」
and that was run by them .	由他們來經營 。
and after 35/36 years , it's still going on .	在35/36年之後 , 仍然在發生 。
it's a part of the village development bank ; it's not a real bank , but it's a fund microcredit .	它是村落發展銀行的一部分 ; 它不是真正的銀行 , 但它是種基金 。
and we didn't need a big organization to run it it was run by the villagers themselves .	我們不需要一個大型組織來執行這個計畫 , 由村民自己管理 。
and you probably hardly see a thai man there , it's always women , women , women , women .	你可能看不到泰國男子 , 那裡總是女人、女人、女人 。
and then we thought we'd help america , because america's been helping everyone , whether they want help or not .	接著 , 我們認為我們會幫助美國 , 因為美國一直在幫助所有人 , 不論他們是否想要協助 。
and this is on the fourth of july .	這是7月4日 。
we decided to provide vasectomy to all men , but in particular , american men to the front of the queue , right up to the ambassador's residence during his [unclear] .	我們決定提供全國男性外科切除術 , 但 , 特別是 , 美國男性就在排隊前面 , 就在他排隊期間 。
and the hotel gave us the ballroom for it very appropriate room .	這間旅館給了我們一間非常適當的房間 。
and since it was near lunch time , they said , " all right , we'll give you some lunch .	既然午餐時間差一點 , 他們說: 「 好 , 我們會給你午餐 。
of course , it must be american cola .	當然 , 它一定是美國的可樂 。
you get two brands , coke and pepsi .	你有兩種品牌 , 可口可樂和百事可樂 。
and then the food is either hamburger or hotdog . "	接著食物要嘛是漢堡或熱狗 。 」
and i thought a hotdog will be more symbolic .	我覺得熱狗比較有象徵意義 。
and here is this , then , young man called willy bohm who worked for the usaid .	以下是這個 , 年輕人名叫willybohm , 他為美國國際援助工作 。
obviously , he's had his vasectomy because his hotdog is half eaten , and he was very happy .	很顯然 , 他接受了血管切除手術 , 因為他的熱狗一半被吃掉 , 而且他非常開心 。
it made a lot of news in america , and it angered some people also .	在美國有很多新聞也令一些人不高興
i said , " don't worry . come over and i'll do the whole lot of you . "	我說: 「 別擔心 。 過來 , 我會盡量做你們的 。 」
in all this thing , from seven children to 1 . 5 children , population growth rate of 3 . 3 to 0 . 5 .	在這一切中 , 從七個孩子到1.5個孩子 , 人口成長率是3.3到0.5 。
you could call it the cocacola approach if you like it was exactly the same thing .	你可以叫它 「 可口可樂 」 方法 , 如果你喜歡的話 。
i'm not sure whether cocacola followed us , or we followed cocacola , but we're good friends .	我不確定可口可樂是否跟著我們 , 或者我們跟著可口可樂 , 但我們是好朋友 。
and so that's the case of everyone joining in .	這就是所有人加入的案例 。
we didn't have a strong government . we didn't have lots of doctors .	我們沒有強大的政府 。 我們沒有很多醫生 。
but it's everybody's job who can change attitude and behavior .	但 , 每個人都可以改變態度和行為 。
then aids came along and hit thailand , and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight aids .	接著 , 愛滋病病毒來到泰國 , 我們必須停止對抗愛滋病的好事 。
but unfortunately , the government was in denial , denial , denial .	但不幸的是 , 政府拒絕、拒絕、否認 。
so our work wasn't affected .	所以 , 我們的工作沒有受到影響 。
so i thought , " well , if you can't go to the government , go to the military . "	所以我想: 「 嗯 , 如果你不能去政府那就去軍事那裏 。 」
so i went to the military and asked to borrow 300 radio stations .	所以我去了軍隊 , 請求借了300個無線電站 。
they have more than the government , and they've got more guns than the government .	他們的槍比政府多 , 他們的槍比政府多 。
so i asked them , could they help us in our fight against hiv .	所以我問他們 , 他們能否幫助我們對抗愛滋病病毒 。
and after i gave them statistics , they said , " yes . okay . you can use all the radio stations , television stations . "	在我給他們統計數據之後 , 他們說: 「 是的 , 你可以使用所有的廣播電台 , 電視台 。 」
and that's when we went onto the airwaves .	那時我們就要上飛機了 。
and then we got a new prime minister soon after that .	不久之後 , 我們就找了一個新總理 。
and he said , " mechai , could you come and join ? "	他說: 「 機械人 , 你能來加入嗎 ? 」
he asked me in because he liked my wife a lot .	他問我 , 因為他很喜歡我老婆 。
so i said , " okay . "	我說: 「 好 。 」
he became the chairman of the national aids committee and increased the budget fiftyfold .	他成為國家愛滋委員會的主席 , 並且增加預算的五十倍 。
every ministry , even judges , had to be involved in aids education everyone and we said the public , institutions , religious institutions , schools everyone was involved .	每個部長 , 甚至是法官 , 都必須參與愛滋病的教育 , 我們說 , 所有人 , 包括大眾、機構、宗教機構、學校 , 所有人都參與其中 。
and here , every media person had to be trained for hiv .	在這裡 , 每個媒體人都必須接受愛滋病病毒的訓練 。
and we gave every station half a minute extra for advertising to earn more money .	我們給每一站五分鐘額外的廣告額外賺更多錢 。
so they were happy with that .	所以他們很高興 。
and then aids education in all schools , starting from university .	接著 , 所有學校都有愛滋病的教育 , 從大學開始 。
and these are high school kids teaching high school kids .	這些是高中生 , 正在教導高中生 。
and the best teachers were the girls , not the boys , and they were terrific .	最好的老師是女孩 , 而不是男孩 , 她們很棒 。
and these girls who go around teaching about safe sex and hiv were known as mother theresa .	這些到處教導安全性愛和愛滋的女孩 , 被稱為 「 泰蕾莎媽媽 」 。
and then we went down one more step .	然後我們再下一步 。
these are primary school kids third , fourth grade going to every household in the village , every household in the whole of thailand , giving aids information and a condom to every household , given by these young kids .	這些小學三年級的小學三年級 , 四年級的小朋友 , 每個村落的家庭 , 每個泰國的家庭 , 給予愛滋病的資訊和保險套 , 由這些小孩子提供的家庭 。
and no parents objected , because we were trying to save lives , and this was a lifesaver .	沒有父母反對 , 因為我們想要拯救人命 , 這是個救生員 。
and we said , " everyone needs to be involved . "	我們說: 「 每個人都需要參與 。 」
so you have the companies also realizing that sick staff don't work , and dead customers don't buy .	所以 , 公司也了解 , 生病的員工不行 , 消費者不買東西 。
so they all trained .	所以他們都受過訓練 。
and then we have this captain condom , with his harvard mba , going to schools and night spots .	然後我們有了這個安全套 , 加上他的哈佛mba , 到學校和夜班 。
and they loved him . you need a symbol of something .	他們很喜歡他 。 你需要一個東西的符號 。
in every country , every program , you need a symbol , and this is probably the best thing he's ever done with his mba .	在每個國家 , 每個方案 , 你都需要一個符號 , 而這大概是他和他的mba合作過的最佳成果 。
and then we gave condoms out everywhere on the streets everywhere , everywhere .	接著 , 我們在街上提供安全套 , 到處都是 。
in taxis , you get condoms .	在計程車上 , 你會得到保險套 。
and also , in traffic , the policemen give you condoms our " cops and rubbers " programs .	此外 , 在交通中 , 警察給你保險套我們的 「 警察和橡膠 」 計畫 。
so , can you imagine new york policemen giving out condoms ?	所以 , 你能想像紐約警察發放保險套嗎 ?
of course i can . and they'd enjoy it immensely ; i see them standing around right now , everywhere .	當然我可以 。 他們會非常享受它 。 我看到他們站在任何地方 。
imagine if they had condoms , giving out to all sorts of people .	想像一下 , 如果他們有保險套 , 發給各式各樣的人 。
and then , new change , we had hair bands , clothing and the condom for your mobile phone during the rainy season .	接著 , 新的改變 , 在雨季時 , 我們有了毛帶、衣服 , 和保險套 , 可以讓你的手機使用 。
and these were the condoms that we introduced .	這些是我們推出的安全套 。
one says , " weapon of mass protection . "	其中一個說: 「 大規模防護性武器 。 」
we found you know somebody here was searching for the weapon of mass destruction , but we have found the weapon of mass protection: the condom .	我們發現 , 這裡有人在尋找大規模毀滅性武器 , 但我們已經找到大規模防護性武器了:保險套 。
and then it says here , with the american flag , " don't leave home without it . "	上面寫著: 「 若沒有美國國旗 , 就不要離開家 。 」
but i have some to give out afterward .	但之後我還是要放棄一些 。
but let me warn you , these are thaisized , so be very careful .	但 , 讓我先警告各位 , 這些是泰國化的 , 請小心 。
and so you can see that condoms can do so many things .	你可以看到保險套可以做很多事 。
look at this i gave this to al gore and to bill senior also .	看看這個 , 我也給algore和billsenior做這個 。
stop global warming ; use condoms .	停止全球暖化 , 使用保險套 。
and then this is the picture i mentioned to you the weapon of mass protection .	這張照片是我剛剛提到的 , 大規模防護性武器 。
and let the next olympics save some lives .	下一次奧運會拯救了一些生命 。
why just run around ?	為什麼要跑來跑去 ?
and then finally , in thailand we're buddhist , we don't have a god , so instead , we say , " in rubber we trust . "	最後 , 在泰國 , 我們是佛教徒 , 我們沒有神 , 所以 , 我們說: 「 我們信任橡膠 。 」
so you can see that we added everything to our endeavor to make life better for the people .	所以你可以看到 , 我們把所有的東西加入到我們的努力中 , 讓人們的生活更好 。
we had condoms in all the refrigerators in the hotels and the schools , because alcohol impairs judgment .	我們在飯店和學校都有保險套 , 因為酒精會造成判斷 。
and then what happened ?	然後發生了什麼事 ?
after all this time , everybody joined in .	在這段時間之後 , 每個人都加入了 。
according to the u . n . , new cases of hiv declined by 90 percent , and according to the world bank , 7 . 7 million lives were saved .	根據聯合國的統計 , 愛滋病的新案例減少了90% , 根據世界銀行 , 拯救了770萬人的性命 。
otherwise there wouldn't be many thais walking around today .	要不然 , 今天不會有太多泰國人到處走動 。
so it just showed you , you could do something about it .	剛剛你看到了 , 你可以做點什麼 。
90 percent of the funding came from thailand .	90%的資金來自泰國 。
there was political commitment , some financial commitment , and everybody joined in the fight .	有政治的承諾、財務上的承諾 , 每個人都加入了這場戰爭 。
so just don't leave it to the specialists and doctors and nurses .	所以 , 不要把這問題留給專家、醫生、護士 。
we all need to help .	我們都需要幫助 。
and then we decided to help people out of poverty , now that we got aids somewhat out of the way this time , not with government alone , but in cooperation with the business community .	接著 , 我們決定要幫助貧窮的人 , 現在我們讓愛滋病從這次的方式中消失 , 不是只有政府 , 而是與商業界合作 。
because poor people are business people who lack business skills and access to credit .	因為貧窮的人是商人 , 他們缺乏商業技能和信譽 。
those are the things to be provided by the business community .	這些都是商業界提供的 。
we're trying to turn them into barefoot entrepreneurs , little business people .	我們試著把他們變成赤腳企業家、小企業家 。
the only way out of poverty is through business enterprise .	脫離貧窮的唯一方法 , 就是透過企業 。
so , that was done .	所以 , 完成了 。
the money goes from the company into the village via treeplanting .	公司的經費透過樹木移植 , 從村莊到村莊 。
it's not a free gift .	這不是免費的禮物 。
they plant the trees , and the money goes into their microcredit fund , which we call the village development bank .	他們種植樹木 , 把錢投入到他們的微型貸款基金中 , 我們稱之為村落發展銀行 。
everybody joins in , and they feel they own the bank , because they have brought the money in .	每個人都加入了 , 他們覺得自己擁有銀行 , 因為他們把錢帶進去 。
and before you can borrow the money , you need to be trained .	在你能借錢之前 , 你得要接受訓練 。
and we believe if you want to help the poor , those who are living in poverty , access to credit must be a human right .	我們相信 , 如果你想要幫助窮人 , 那些生活在貧窮之中的人 , 信用權利就一定是人權 。
access to credit must be a human right .	信用信用權必須是人權 。
otherwise they'll never get out of poverty .	否則他們永遠不會脫離貧窮 。
and then before getting a loan , you must be trained .	在取得貸款之前 , 你必須要接受訓練 。
here's what we call a " barefoot mba , " teaching people how to do business so that , when they borrow money , they'll succeed with the business .	我們稱之為 「 赤腳mba 」 , 教導人們如何做生意 , 如此一來 , 當他們借錢時 , 他們就能成功地從事這行 。
these are some of the businesses: mushrooms , crabs , vegetables , trees , fruits , and this is very interesting nike ice cream and nike biscuits ; this is a village sponsored by nike .	這些是一些企業:蘑菇、螃蟹、蔬菜、樹、水果 , 這些事非常有趣 , nike冰淇淋和nike餅乾 ; 這是由nike贊助的村莊 。
they said , " they should stop making shoes and clothes .	他們說: 「 他們不該再做鞋子和衣服了 。
make these better , because we can afford them . "	把這些做得更好 , 因為我們能負擔得起 。 」
and then we have silk , thai silk .	還有泰國絲綢 。
now we're making scottish tartans , as you can see on the left , to sell to all people of scottish ancestors .	現在我們在做蘇格蘭的瀝青 , 就像你在左邊看到的 , 賣給所有蘇格蘭祖先 。
so anyone sitting in and watching tv , get in touch with me .	任何人只要坐下來看電視 , 跟我聯絡 。
and then this is our answer to starbucks in thailand " coffee and condoms . "	接著 , 這是我們在泰國的星巴克回答: 「 咖啡和保險套 。 」
see , starbucks you awake , we keep you awake and alive .	你看 , 星巴克你醒著 , 我們讓你醒著並活著 。
can you imagine , at every starbucks that you can also get condoms ?	你能想像 , 在每個星巴克 , 你都能拿到保險套嗎 ?
you can order your condoms with your with your cappuccino .	你可以用卡布奇諾訂購保險套 。
and then now , finally in education , we want to change the school as being underutilized into a place where it's a lifelong learning center for everyone .	接著 , 最後 , 在教育界 , 我們想要把學校當做是被忽略的 , 變成每個人終身學習中心的地方 。
we call this our schoolbased integrated rural development .	我們稱之為 「 以學校為基礎的農村發展 」 。
and it's a center , a focal point for economic and social development .	它是一個中心 , 一個經濟和社會發展的焦點 。
redo the school , make it serve the community needs .	重新建設學校 , 讓它滿足社區的需求 。
and here is a bamboo building all of them are bamboo .	這是一座竹子建築全都是竹子 。
this is a geodesic dome made of bamboo .	這是用竹子做成的地質圓頂 。
and i'm sure buckminster fuller would be very , very proud to see a bamboo geodesic dome .	我相信巴克敏斯特•富勒會非常非常驕傲地看到一個竹子地理的圓頂 。
and we use vegetables around the school ground , so they raise their own vegetables .	我們在學校附近用蔬菜 , 所以他們自己種植蔬菜 。
and then , finally , i firmly believe , if we want the mdgs to work the millennium development goals we need to add family planning to it .	最後 , 我堅信 , 如果我們希望mdgs能實現千禧年發展目標 , 我們需要加入家庭計畫 。
of course , child mortality first and then family planning everyone needs family planning service it's underutilized .	當然 , 孩童死亡率先是兒童死亡率 , 接著 , 家庭規劃每個人都需要家庭規劃服務 , 還沒有被充分利用 。
so we have now found the weapon of mass protection .	所以我們現在已經找到了大規模防護性武器 。
and we also ask the next olympics to be involved in saving lives .	我們也要求下一屆的奧運加入拯救生命 。
and then , finally , that is our network .	最後 , 這是我們的網絡 。
and these are our thai tulips .	這些是我們泰國的鬱金香 。
thank you very much indeed .	非常謝謝各位 。
your smartphone may feel like a friend but a true friend would give you a smile once in a while . at ted2013 , keller rinaudo demos romo , the smartphonepowered mini robot who can motor along with you on a walk , slide you a cup of coffee across the table , and react to you with programmable expressions .	你的智慧手機可能感覺像個朋友 , 但一位真正的朋友會給你一會兒的笑容 。 在2013年的ted2013年 , 凱勒•里納多展示了romo , 智慧型手機驅動了mini機器人 , 和你一起散步 , 滑過桌子 , 和一杯咖啡 , 並且對你做出可編寫的表情反應 。
keller rinaudo: a mini robot powered by your phone	kellerrinaudo:一個迷你機器人 , 由你的手機供電給你的 。
so just by a show of hands , how many of you all have a robot at home ?	請舉手 , 在座有多少人家裡都有機器人 ?
not very many of you .	不在座很多人 。
okay . and actually of those hands , if you don't include roomba how many of you have a robot at home ?	好 , 請舉手 , 如果你不包含roomba有多少人家裡有機器人 ?
that's the problem that we're trying to solve at romotive that i and the other 20 nerds at romotive are obsessed with solving .	這就是我們在romotive公司試圖解決的問題 , 我和romotive公司二十位迷戀者 , 著迷於解決這個問題 。
so we really want to build a robot that anyone can use , whether you're eight or 80 .	所以 , 我們真的很想建一個任何人都可以使用的機器人 , 不管你是八或八十歲 。
and as it turns out , that's a really hard problem , because you have to build a small , portable robot that's not only really affordable , but it has to be something that people actually want to take home and have around their kids .	結果發現 , 這是個很困難的問題 , 因為你必須建造一個小型、可攜帶式的機器人 , 不只可以負擔得起 , 而且它必須是人們真的想要帶回家 , 帶著孩子們到處走 。
this robot can't be creepy or uncanny .	這個機器人不能是詭異或不可思議的 。
he should be friendly and cute .	他應該要很友善、很可愛 。
romo's a robot that uses a device you already know and love your iphone as his brain .	romo是一個機器人 , 使用你已經知道且很喜歡你的iphone作為他的大腦 。
and by leveraging the power of the iphone's processor , we can create a robot that is wifi enabled and computer visioncapable for 150 bucks , which is about one percent of what these kinds of robots have cost in the past .	透過iphone處理器的力量 , 我們可以創造一個無線網路的機器人 , 可以用150塊美金的電腦視覺影像 , 大約是過去機器人所付出的150塊美金 。
when romo wakes up , he's in creature mode .	當romo醒來時 , 他在動物模式中 。
so he's actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face .	他其實是用這個裝置上的攝影機來跟著我的臉 。
if i duck down , he'll follow me .	如果我蹲下去 , 他會跟著我 。
he's wary , so he'll keep his eyes on me .	他很小心 , 所以他會把他的眼睛留在我身上 。
if i come over here , he'll turn to follow me .	如果我來這裡 , 他會轉身跟著我 。
if i come over here he's smart .	如果我過來這裡 , 他很聰明 。
and if i get too close to him , he gets scared just like any other creature .	如果我太靠近他 , 他會像其他生物一樣害怕 。
so in a lot of ways , romo is like a pet that has a mind of his own .	所以在很多方面 , romo就像一隻擁有自己的心智的寵物 。
thanks , little guy .	謝謝 , 小傢伙 。
and if i want to explore the world uhoh , romo's tired if i want to explore the world with romo , i can actually connect him from any other ios device .	如果我想要探索世界--喔 ~ ~ ~ romo已經累了--如果我想要用romo來探索世界 , 我其實可以把他從任何ios設備連接起來 。
so here's the ipad .	這是ipad 。
and romo will actually stream video to this device .	romo會把影片串流到這個裝置上 。
so i can see everything that romo sees , and i get a robot'seyeview of the world .	我可以看到romo看到的一切 , 我得到機器人的視野 。
now this is a free app on the app store , so if any of you guys had this app on your phones , we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together .	這是在appstore上的免費應用程式 , 所以如果你們在手機上有這個應用程式 , 我們現在就可以把機器人的控制權分享到一起玩遊戲 。
so i'll show you really quickly , romo actually he's streaming video , so you can see me and the entire ted audience .	我會很快的給你們看romo實際上是他在串流影片所以你可以看到我和整個ted觀眾
if i get in front of romo here .	如果我在羅馬的前面 。
and if i want to control him , i can just drive .	如果我想要控制他 , 我就可以開車 。
so i can drive him around , and i can take pictures of you .	所以 , 我可以把他開來 , 我可以幫你拍照 。
i've always wanted a picture of a 1 , 500person ted audience .	我一直都想要有一千五百個ted觀眾的照片 。
so i'll snap a picture .	所以我拍了一張照片 。
and in the same way that you scroll through content on an ipad , i can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device .	就像你在ipad上滑動內容一樣 , 我可以調整裝置上攝影機的角度 。
so there are all of you through romo's eyes .	所以在座所有人 , 透過romo的眼睛 。
and finally , because romo is an extension of me , i can express myself through his emotions .	最後 , 因為romo是我的延伸 , 我可以透過他的情緒表達自我 。
so i can go in and i can say let's make romo excited .	所以 , 我可以進去 , 說讓我們讓romo興奮一點 。
but the most important thing about romo is that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive .	但關於romo最重要的事是 , 我們想要創造出一種完全直覺的東西 。
you do not have to teach someone how to drive romo .	你不需要教別人如何駕駛romo 。
in fact , who would like to drive a robot ?	事實上 , 誰會想要駕駛機器人 ?
thank you , scott .	謝謝你 , 史考特 。
and even cooler , you actually don't have to be in the same geographic location as the robot to control him .	更酷的是 , 你其實不需要和機器人在同一個地理位置來控制他 。
so he actually streams twoway audio and video between any two smart devices .	所以他實際上在任意兩個智慧裝置之間串流雙向音頻和影片 。
so you can log in through the browser , and it's kind of like skype on wheels .	你可以登入瀏覽器 , 有點像在輪子上的skype 。
so we were talking before about telepresence , and this is a really cool example .	我們先前談到遠端臨場 , 這是個很酷的例子 。
you can imagine an eightyearold girl , for example , who has an iphone , and her mom buys her a robot .	你可以想像一個八歲的女孩 , 例如 , 她有一支iphone , 她媽媽會給她買一個機器人 。
that girl can take her iphone , put it on the robot , send an email to grandma , who lives on the other side of the country .	那個女孩可以拿著她的iphone , 把它放在機器人上 , 發送電子郵件給祖母 , 她住在這個國家的另一邊 。
grandma can log into that robot and play hideandgoseek with her granddaughter for fifteen minutes every single night , when otherwise she might only be able to get to see her granddaughter once or twice a year .	祖母可以登入那個機器人 , 和她的孫女一起玩捉迷藏 , 每天晚上十五分鐘 , 否則 , 她可能只能一次見到她孫女兩次 。
so those are a couple of the really cool things that romo can do today .	這些是romo今天能做的一些很酷的事 。
but i just want to finish by talking about something that we're working on in the future .	但我只想談談我們未來正在努力的事情 , 來結束我的演講 。
this is actually something that one of our engineers , dom , built in a weekend .	這是我們其中一個工程師 , 多姆 , 在一個週末建造的 。
it's built on top of a google open framework called blockly .	它是建立在谷歌開放的架構上 , 叫做blockly 。
this allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic code and create any behavior for this robot you want .	這樣你就可以拖曳這些語義編碼的積木 , 創造出你想要的這個機器人的行為 。
you do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for romo .	你不需要知道如何編寫romo的行為 。
and you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser , which is what you see romo doing on the left .	實際上你可以模擬這個行為在瀏覽器中 , 這是你看到romo在左邊的行為 。
and then if you have something you like , you can download it onto your robot and execute it in real life , run the program in real life .	如果你有你喜歡的東西 , 你可以下載到你的機器人上 , 並在真實人生中執行這個程式 , 執行這個程式 。
and then if you have something you're proud of , you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world .	如果你有你自豪的東西 , 你可以和世界上每個擁有機器人的人分享 。
so all of these wifi–enabled robots actually learn from each other .	所以這些無線網路的無線網路飛行器其實是互相學習的 。
the reason we're so focused on building robots that everyone can train is that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal .	我們如此專注於建造一個人人都可以訓練的機器人 , 是因為我們認為個人機器人中最引人入勝的使用案例是私人的 。
they change from person to person .	它們會從人變成人 。
so we think that if you're going to have a robot in your home , that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination .	所以我們認為 , 如果你在家裡要有個機器人 , 那機器人應該要是你自己的想像力的表現 。
so i wish that i could tell you what the future of personal robotics looks like .	所以 , 我希望我能告訴你個人機器人的未來是什麼樣子 。
to be honest , i have no idea .	老實說 , 我不知道 。
but what we do know is that it isn't 10 years or 10 billion dollars or a large humanoid robot away .	但是我們知道的是 , 這不是10年或100億美金 , 或一個大型的人形機器人 。
the future of personal robotics is happening today , and it's going to depend on small , agile robots like romo and the creativity of people like yourselves .	個人機器人的未來將發生 , 依賴像你這樣的小型敏捷機器人 , 以及像你自己這樣的人的創造力 。
so we can't wait to get you all robots , and we can't wait to see what you build .	所以 , 我們等不及要讓你們所有機器人 , 我們等不及要看你們建造什麼 。
author and activist isabel allende discusses women , creativity , the definition of feminism and , of course , passion in this talk .	作者和活動家伊莎貝爾•阿言德討論女性、創意、女性主義的定義 , 當然 , 還有這場演說的熱情 。
entertainment , global issues , love , parenting , storytelling , women , world cultures	娛樂、全球議題、愛、養育、說故事、女性、世界文化 。
isabel allende tells tales of passion	伊莎貝爾•阿言德訴說著熱情的故事
thank you so much . it's really scary to be here among the smartest of the smart .	非常謝謝你們 。 能來到這裡是最聰明的智慧之一 , 真的很可怕 。
i'm here to tell you a few tales of passion .	我來這裡是要告訴各位幾個關於熱情的故事 。
there's a jewish saying that i love .	有個猶太人說我很喜歡 。
what is truer than truth ? answer: the story .	比事實更真實的是什麼 ? 答案:故事 。
i'm a storyteller . i want to convey something that is truer than truth about our common humanity .	我是說故事的人 。 我想要傳達一個比事實更真實的東西 , 比我們共同的人性更真實的東西 。
all stories interest me , and some haunt me until i end up writing them .	所有故事都吸引我 , 有些故事一直困擾著我 , 直到我寫下它們 。
certain themes keep coming up: justice , loyalty , violence , death , political and social issues , freedom .	有些主題不斷出現:正義、忠誠、暴力、死亡、政治和社會議題、自由 。
i'm aware of the mystery around us , so i write about coincidences , premonitions , emotions , dreams , the power of nature , magic .	我知道我們身邊的謎團 , 所以我寫了巧合、預兆、情緒、夢想、大自然的力量、魔法 。
in the last 20 years i have published a few books , but i have lived in anonymity until february of 2006 , when i carried the olympic flag in the winter olympics in italy .	在過去的20年中 , 我出版了幾本書 , 但我一直以匿名的方式生活 , 直到2006年2月 , 我帶著奧運旗 , 在義大利冬季奧運會 。
that made me a celebrity . now people recognize me in macy's , and my grandchildren think that i'm cool .	這讓我成了名人 。 現在 , 人們認出我是梅西的名人 , 而我的孫子認為我很酷 。
allow me to tell you about my four minutes of fame .	讓我告訴各位我四分鐘的名聲 。
one of the organizers of the olympic ceremony , of the opening ceremony , called me and said that i had been selected to be one of the flagbearers .	其中一個籌辦奧林匹克儀式的籌辦人 , 打電話給我 , 說我被選為一個旗手 。
i replied that surely this was a case of mistaken identity because i'm as far as you can get from being an athlete .	我回答說 , 這肯定是誤認身分的案例 , 因為從你身為運動員的角度 , 到目前為止 。
actually , i wasn't even sure that i could go around the stadium without a walker .	事實上 , 我甚至不敢肯定我可以走在體育館裡 , 不用步行者 。
i was told that this was no laughing matter .	我被告知這不是笑事 。
this would be the first time that only women would carry the olympic flag .	這是第一次 , 只有女性會帶著奧運國旗 。
five women , representing five continents , and three olympic gold medal winners .	五位女性代表五大洲 , 和三位奧運金牌得主 。
my first question was , naturally , what was i going to wear ?	我的第一個問題是 , 很自然地 , 我要穿什麼 ?
a uniform , she said , and asked for my measurements .	她說 , 穿著制服 , 要求我的測量值 。
i had a vision of myself in a fluffy anorak , looking like the michelin man .	我對自己在一個鬆軟的動脈中 , 看上去就像一個米其林人 。
by the middle of february , i found myself in turin , where enthusiastic crowds cheered when any of the 80 olympic teams was in the street .	到了二月中期 , 我在土耳其 , 在那裡 , 充滿熱情的群眾歡呼 , 當時在街上 , 80個奧運團隊中的任何一員都在 。
those athletes had sacrificed everything to compete in the games .	那些運動員犧牲了所有的競爭對手 。
they all deserved to win , but there's the element of luck .	他們都值得贏 , 但幸運之處在於 。
a speck of snow , an inch of ice , the force of the wind , can determine the result of a race or a game .	一片雪花 , 一英吋的冰 , 一股風力 , 可以決定種族或遊戲的結果 。
however , what matters most more than training or luck is the heart .	然而 , 除了訓練或運氣之外 , 最重要的是心臟 。
only a fearless and determined heart will get the gold medal .	只有無懼且堅定的心才能得到金牌 。
it is all about passion .	一切都和熱情有關 。
the streets of turin were covered with red posters announcing the slogan of the olympics .	土耳其的街道上滿是紅色海報 , 宣佈奧運標誌 。
passion lives here . isn't it always true ?	熱情存在這裡 , 不是一直都是真的嗎 ?
heart is what drives us and determines our fate .	心是驅動我們的動力 , 決定我們的命運 。
that is what i need for my characters in my books: a passionate heart .	那就是我在我的書中角色所需要的:熱情的心 。
i need mavericks , dissidents , adventurers , outsiders and rebels , who ask questions , bend the rules and take risks .	我需要瘋狂主義者、異議者、冒險家、局外人和反叛者 , 他們會問問題 , 扭轉規則 , 並承擔風險 。
people like all of you in this room .	像在座各位一樣的人
nice people with common sense do not make interesting characters .	有 「 常識 」 的好人 , 不會變成有趣的角色 。
they only make good former spouses .	他們只會做好前配偶 。
in the green room of the stadium , i met the other flag bearers: three athletes , and the actresses susan sarandon and sophia loren .	在體育場的綠色房間裡 , 我遇見了其他護旗手三位運動員 , 女演員蘇珊•沙蘭登和蘇菲雅羅蘭 。
also , two women with passionate hearts: wangari maathai , the nobel prizewinner from kenya who has planted 30 million trees . and by doing so , she has changed the soil , the weather , in some places in africa , and of course the economic conditions in many villages .	此外 , 有兩位有熱情心的女性 , 旺加利馬塔伊 , 來自肯亞的諾貝爾獎得主 , 她種植了三千萬棵樹 。 透過這麼做 , 她改變了土壤、天氣 , 在非洲的某些地方 , 以及許多村落的經濟狀況 。
and somaly mam , a cambodian activist who fights passionately against child prostitution .	還有索馬利媽媽 , 柬埔寨的活動家 , 很有熱情地對抗兒童賣淫 。
when she was 14 years old , her grandfather sold her to a brothel .	當她十四歲時 , 她的祖父把她賣給妓院 。
she told us of little girls raped by men who believe that having sex with a very young virgin will cure them from aids .	她告訴我們 , 小女孩被男人強暴 , 他們相信和年輕的處女做愛 , 會治療她們免於愛滋病 。
and of brothels where children are forced to receive five , 15 clients per day , and if they rebel , they are tortured with electricity .	在這些妓院中 , 孩子被迫每天接到5、15個客戶 , 如果他們反抗 , 他們就會被電力折磨 。
in the green room i received my uniform .	在綠色房間裡 , 我收到制服 。
it was not the kind of outfit that i normally wear , but it was far from the michelin man suit that i had anticipated . not bad , really .	這不是我平常穿的那種服裝 , 但它離我預期的米其林男裝還很遠 , 真的很糟 。
i looked like a refrigerator .	我看起來像個冰箱 。
but so did most of the flagbearers , except sophia loren , the universal symbol of beauty and passion .	但是 , 除了蘇菲雅羅倫 , 還有其他大部分的旗幟 , 都是美麗和熱情的通用象徵 。
sophia is over 70 and she looks great .	蘇菲雅七十多歲 , 她看起來很棒 。
she's sexy , slim and tall , with a deep tan .	她很性感、很渺小、很高 , 帶著一根深色的坦克 。
now , how can you have a deep tan and have no wrinkles ?	那麼 , 你要如何有深色的坦克而沒有皺紋呢 ?
when asked in a tv interview , " how could she look so good ? "	電視訪問中 , 當被問到: 「 她怎麼能看起來這麼好 ? 」
she replied , " posture . my back is always straight , and i don't make old people's noises . "	她回答: 「 姿勢 。 我的背總是直的 , 而我不會發出老人的聲音 。 」
so , there you have some free advice from one of the most beautiful women on earth .	所以 , 在這裡 , 你有來自地球上最美麗的女性之一的免費建議 。
no grunting , no coughing , no wheezing , no talking to yourselves , no farting .	不痛苦 , 不咳嗽 , 不吹噓 , 不跟自己說話 , 不痛不癢 。
well , she didn't say that exactly .	她並沒有說得那麼清楚 。
at some point around midnight , we were summoned to the wings of the stadium , and the loudspeakers announced the olympic flag , and the music started by the way , the same music that starts here , the aida march .	大約在午夜的時候 , 我們被召喚到體育館的翅膀 , 大聲的創作者宣布奧林匹克國旗 , 音樂從一開始 , 和這裡的音樂一樣 , 艾達大遊行 。
sophia loren was right in front of me she's a foot taller than i am , not counting the poofy hair .	蘇菲雅羅蘭就在我面前 , 她比我高一英尺 , 數不清頭髮 。
she walked elegantly , like a giraffe on the african savannah , holding the flag on her shoulder . i jogged behind on my tiptoes holding the flag on my extended arm , so that my head was actually under the damn flag .	她優雅地走路 , 就像非洲草原上的長頸鹿 , 把旗子放在她的肩膀上 。 我在我的尖端上緊握著旗子 , 手臂延伸出去 , 這樣我的頭其實就在該死的旗子下 。
all the cameras were , of course , on sophia .	當然 , 所有的相機都在蘇菲亞 。
that was fortunate for me , because in most press photos i appear too , although often between sophia's legs .	那對我來說很幸運 , 因為在大部分的媒體照片中 , 我也出現了 , 雖然常常出現在蘇菲雅的雙腿之間 。
a place where most men would love to be .	一個大多數男人都想去的地方 。
the best four minutes of my entire life were those in the olympic stadium .	我一生中最棒的四分鐘就是奧林匹克球場 。
my husband is offended when i say this although i have explained to him that what we do in private usually takes less than four minutes so he shouldn't take it personally .	當我說這句話時 , 我丈夫很生氣 , 雖然我向他解釋說 , 我們私下所做的事通常會花不到四分鐘 , 所以他不應該親自承受 。
i have all the press clippings of those four magnificent minutes , because i don't want to forget them when old age destroys my brain cells .	在那四分鐘裡 , 我有了所有的媒體剪輯 , 因為當老年人摧毀了我的腦細胞時 , 我不想忘記它們 。
i want to carry in my heart forever the key word of the olympics passion .	我想要永遠帶著我的心 , 奧運的關鍵詞:熱情 。
so here's a tale of passion .	以下是關於熱情的故事
the year is 1998 , the place is a prison camp for tutsi refugees in congo .	時間是1998年 , 地點是在剛果的圖西難民營 。
by the way , 80 percent of all refugees and displaced people in the world are women and girls .	順道一提 , 世界上80%的難民和流離失所的人都是女性和女孩 。
we can call this place in congo a death camp , because those who are not killed will die of disease or starvation .	我們可以稱這個地方為剛果的一個死亡集中營 , 因為沒有殺戮的人 , 會因疾病或饑餓而死 。
the protagonists of this story are a young woman , rose mapendo , and her children .	故事的主角是一位年輕女子 , 蘿絲•瑪班多和她的孩子 。
she's pregnant and a widow .	她懷孕了 , 寡婦 。
soldiers have forced her to watch as her husband was tortured and killed .	士兵強迫她看著她的丈夫被虐待和殺害 。
somehow she manages to keep her seven children alive , and a few months later , she gives birth to premature twins .	不知怎麼的 , 她成功讓七個孩子活了下來 , 幾個月後 , 她生下了早產兒 。
two tiny little boys .	兩個小男孩 。
she cuts the umbilical cord with a stick , and ties it with her own hair .	她用棍子剪斷臍帶 , 用頭髮連接 。
she names the twins after the camp's commanders to gain their favor , and feeds them with black tea because her milk cannot sustain them .	她用營地指揮官的命令命名雙胞胎 , 讓雙胞胎得利 , 用黑色茶來餵他們 , 因為她的牛奶無法維持她們的奶味 。
when the soldiers burst in her cell to rape her oldest daughter , she grabs hold of her and refuses to let go , even when they hold a gun to her head .	當士兵在她的牢房裡大聲強暴她最大的女兒時 , 她會抓住她並拒絕放手 , 即使他們手上拿著槍頭 。
somehow , the family survives for 16 months , and then , by extraordinary luck , and the passionate heart of a young american man , sasha chanoff , who manages to put her in a u . s . rescue plane , rose mapendo and her nine children end up in phoenix , arizona , where they're now living and thriving .	不知怎麼的 , 這個家庭存活了16個月 , 然後 , 幸運的是 , 一個年輕的美國人 , 沙夏•查諾夫 , 她成功地把她送到美國救援機上 , 羅絲•瑪德歐和她的九個孩子最後到了亞利桑那州的鳳凰 , 在那裡生活和茁壯成長 。
mapendo , in swahili , means great love .	在斯瓦希里語中 , 繪製地圖的意思是很棒的愛 。
the protagonists of my books are strong and passionate women like rose mapendo .	我書中的主角是堅強且熱情的女性 , 像是蘿絲•瑪班多 。
i don't make them up . there's no need for that .	我不編造它們 , 不需要它 。
i look around and i see them everywhere .	我環顧四周 , 到處都看得到 。
i have worked with women and for women all my life .	我一生都在為女性和女性工作 。
i know them well .	我很了解他們 。
i was born in ancient times , at the end of the world , in a patriarchal catholic and conservative family .	我出生在古代 , 在世界末期 , 在父權的天主教和保守的家庭中 。
no wonder that by age five i was a raging feminist although the term had not reached chile yet , so nobody knew what the heck was wrong with me .	難怪在5歲時 , 我是個憤怒的女權主義者 , 雖然這個詞還沒有到達智利 , 所以沒有人知道我有什麼問題 。
i would soon find out that there was a high price to pay for my freedom , and for questioning the patriarchy .	我很快就發現 , 要支付我的自由 , 還要付出很高的代價 , 還要質疑我的父權制度 。
but i was happy to pay it , because for every blow that i received , i was able to deliver two .	但我很高興能付出它 , 因為每當我收到的一擊 , 我都能提供兩次 。
once , when my daughter paula was in her twenties , she said to me that feminism was dated , that i should move on .	有一次 , 當我的女兒寶拉二十多歲時 , 她對我說女權主義已經過時了 , 我應該繼續向前走 。
we had a memorable fight . feminism is dated ?	我們有一場令人難忘的戰鬥 , 女性主義的約會嗎 ?
yes , for privileged women like my daughter and all of us here today , but not for most of our sisters in the rest of the world who are still forced into premature marriage , prostitution , forced labor they have children that they don't want or they cannot feed .	是的 , 對於我女兒及今天在這裡所有人的特權女性來說 , 沒錯 , 但對我們在世界其他地方的姊妹來說 , 她們仍然被迫結婚、賣淫、強迫工作 , 她們有孩子不想要或她們無法餵飽的孩子 。
they have no control over their bodies or their lives .	他們無法掌控自己的身體或人生 。
they have no education and no freedom .	他們沒有教育 , 也沒有自由 。
they are raped , beaten up and sometimes killed with impunity .	他們被強暴 , 被毆打 , 有時遭到處死刑 。
for most western young women of today , being called a feminist is an insult .	對於現今大部分的西方年輕女性 , 被稱為 「 女權主義者 」 是一種侮辱 。
feminism has never been sexy , but let me assure you that it never stopped me from flirting , and i have seldom suffered from lack of men .	女權主義從來沒有性感過 , 但讓我向各位保證 , 我從來沒有因此停止調情 , 而我很少受過缺乏男性的苦惱 。
feminism is not dead , by no means .	女性主義還沒死 , 絕對沒有 。
it has evolved . if you don't like the term , change it , for goddess' sake .	它已經進化了 。 如果你不喜歡這個名詞 , 改變它 , 為了女神 。
call it aphrodite , or venus , or bimbo , or whatever you want ; the name doesn't matter , as long as we understand what it is about , and we support it .	稱之為 「 愛樂蒂 」 , 金星 , 或 「 金星 」 , 或任何你想要的 ; 名字並不重要 , 只要我們明白它的意義 , 我們就會支持它 。
so here's another tale of passion , and this is a sad one .	這是另一個關於熱情的故事 , 一個悲傷的故事 。
the place is a small women's clinic in a village in bangladesh .	這個地方是孟加拉一個村莊的女性診所 。
the year is 2005 .	那一年是2005年 。
jenny is a young american dental hygienist who has gone to the clinic as a volunteer during her threeweek vacation .	珍妮是一位年輕的美國牙醫 , 在她的三週假期間 , 她當過診所當志工 。
she's prepared to clean teeth , but when she gets there , she finds out that there are no doctors , no dentists , and the clinic is just a hut full of flies .	她準備了乾淨牙齒 , 但當她到達那裡時 , 她發現沒有醫生 , 沒有牙醫 , 診所只是一間充滿蒼蠅的小屋 。
outside , there is a line of women who have waited several hours to be treated .	外面有一排女子等了好幾個小時來治療 。
the first patient is in excruciating pain because she has several rotten molars .	第一位病人在痛苦中非常痛苦 , 因為她有幾顆腐爛的金星 。
jenny realizes that the only solution is to pull out the bad teeth .	珍妮了解 , 唯一的解決方案就是拔出不好的牙齒 。
she's not licensed for that ; she has never done it .	她沒有申請許可 , 她從來沒有做過 。
she risks a lot and she's terrified .	她常常冒險 , 她很害怕 。
she doesn't even have the proper instruments , but fortunately she has brought some novocaine .	她甚至沒有適當的樂器 , 但幸運的是 , 她帶來了一些不可思議的 。
jenny has a brave and passionate heart .	珍妮有顆勇敢且充滿熱情的心 。
she murmurs a prayer and she goes ahead with the operation .	她鼓起了一名禱告 , 然後她就跟著手術前進 。
at the end , the relieved patient kisses her hands .	最後 , 病患親吻了她的手 。
that day the hygienist pulls out many more teeth .	那天 , 衛生專家又拔了很多牙齒 。
the next morning , when she comes again to the socalled clinic , her first patient is waiting for her with her husband .	第二天早上 , 當她再次來到所謂的診所時 , 她的第一個病人和她的丈夫在等她 。
the woman's face looks like a watermelon .	這位女士的臉像個塞爾蒙 。
it is so swollen that you can't even see the eyes .	它實在是太腫脹了 , 你甚至看不到眼睛 。
the husband , furious , threatens to kill the american .	丈夫 , 憤怒 , 威脅要殺了美國人 。
jenny is horrified at what she has done , but then the translator explains that the patient's condition has nothing to do with the operation .	珍妮被她所做的事嚇壞了 , 但翻譯解釋了病人的狀況和手術無關 。
the day before , her husband beat her up because she was not home in time to prepare dinner for him .	前一天 , 她丈夫打她 , 因為她沒有在家準備晚餐 。
millions of women live like this today .	現今有數百萬的女性是這樣生活的 。
they are the poorest of the poor .	他們是最窮的窮人 。
although women do twothirds of the world's labor , they own less than one percent of the world's assets .	雖然世界上有三分之二的女性勞動力 , 但她們卻擁有不到1%的全球資產 。
they are paid less than men for the same work if they're paid at all , and they remain vulnerable because they have no economic independence , and they are constantly threatened by exploitation , violence and abuse .	他們的薪水比男人還低 , 如果他們有薪水可以領到同樣的工作 , 而且他們仍然很脆弱 , 因為他們沒有經濟獨立 , 而且他們經常受到剝削、暴力和虐待的威脅 。
it is a fact that giving women education , work , the ability to control their own income , inherit and own property , benefits the society .	事實是 , 給予女性教育、工作 , 控制她們自己的收入、繼承和財產權的能力 , 讓她們能受惠於社會 。
if a woman is empowered , her children and her family will be better off .	如果一個女人有能力 , 她的孩子和家人就會更好 。
if families prosper , the village prospers , and eventually so does the whole country .	如果家人能繁榮 , 村落的繁榮 , 最終 , 整個國家也一樣 。
wangari maathai goes to a village in kenya .	wangarimaathai去肯亞的一個村莊 。
she talks with the women and explains that the land is barren because they have cut and sold the trees .	她和女人談 , 解釋土地是貧瘠的 , 因為他們砍了樹並賣掉了樹木 。
she gets the women to plant new trees and water them , drop by drop .	她讓女性種植新的樹木 , 將它們澆灌 , 再倒下 。
in a matter of five or six years , they have a forest , the soil is enriched , and the village is saved .	在五或六年之內 , 他們有一片森林 , 土壤很豐富 , 村落就被拯救了 。
the poorest and most backward societies are always those that put women down .	最窮、最落後的社會總是那些讓女性失望的社會 。
yet this obvious truth is ignored by governments and also by philanthropy .	但這個顯而易見的事實卻被政府和慈善事業忽略了 。
for every dollar given to a women's program , 20 dollars are given to men's programs .	每一塊錢給女性的計畫 , 每一塊錢就有二十塊錢給男性計畫 。
women are 51 percent of humankind .	女性佔人類51% 。
empowering them will change everything more than technology and design and entertainment .	授權他們能改變一切 , 不僅僅是科技、設計、娛樂 。
i can promise you that women working together linked , informed and educated can bring peace and prosperity to this forsaken planet .	我可以向各位保證 , 女性合作 , 結合、有知識、受教育的女性 , 就能為這個偽造的星球帶來和平和繁榮 。
in any war today , most of the casualties are civilians , mainly women and children . they are collateral damage .	在今天的任何戰爭中 , 大部分的傷亡者都是平民百姓 , 主要是婦女和兒童 。 她們是永遠的傷害 。
men run the world , and look at the mess we have .	男人跑遍世界 , 看著我們這一團糟 。
what kind of world do we want ?	我們想要什麼樣的世界 ?
this is a fundamental question that most of us are asking .	這是我們大部分人都在問的根本問題 。
does it make sense to participate in the existing world order ?	參與現有的世界秩序是合理的嗎 ?
we want a world where life is preserved and the quality of life is enriched for everybody , not only for the privileged .	我們想要一個世界 , 在那裡 , 生命被保存下來 , 生命的品質也被賦予所有人 , 不只是為了特權 。
in january i saw an exhibit of fernando botero's paintings at the uc berkeley library .	一月時 , 我看到費南多•波特羅在柏克萊圖書館的畫展 。
no museum or gallery in the united states , except for the new york gallery that carries botero's work , has dared to show the paintings because the theme is the abu ghraib prison .	在美國 , 沒有博物館或畫廊 , 除了紐約畫廊 , 帶著博特羅的作品 , 卻膽敢展示這些畫作 , 因為主題是阿布格萊布監獄 。
they are huge paintings of torture and abuse of power , in the voluminous botero style .	他們是大量的酷刑和權力濫用的畫作 , 用大量的博特羅風格 。
i have not been able to get those images out of my mind or my heart .	我無法從我的心中得到那些影像 。
what i fear most is power with impunity .	我最害怕的 , 是無辜的力量 。
i fear abuse of power , and the power to abuse .	我害怕濫用權力 , 以及濫用權力 。
in our species , the alpha males define reality , and force the rest of the pack to accept that reality and follow the rules .	在我們這個物種中 , 雄性領袖定義了現實 , 迫使其他群體接受現實 , 並遵守規則 。
the rules change all the time , but they always benefit them , and in this case , the trickledown effect , which does not work in economics , works perfectly .	規則無時無刻都在改變 , 但他們總是對他們有好處 , 在這個例子中 , 規則的效應在經濟學上是行不通的 。
abuse trickles down from the top of the ladder to the bottom .	虐待從梯子的頂端打到底部 。
women and children , especially the poor , are at the bottom .	女人和孩子 , 尤其是窮人 , 都在最底層 。
even the most destitute of men have someone they can abuse a woman or a child .	即使是最貧窮的男人也有自己可以虐待女人或小孩的人 。
i'm fed up with the power that a few exert over the many through gender , income , race , and class .	我受夠了這股力量 , 少數人透過性別、收入、種族和階級 , 來控制許多人 。
i think that the time is ripe to make fundamental changes in our civilization .	我認為 , 該是成熟的時候了 , 可以在我們的文明中做出根本的改變 。
but for real change , we need feminine energy in the management of the world .	但真正的改變 , 我們需要女性的精力來管理世界 。
we need a critical number of women in positions of power , and we need to nurture the feminine energy in men .	我們需要一大群有權力的女性 , 我們需要培養男性的女性能量 。
i'm talking about men with young minds , of course .	我說的當然是年輕男性 。
old guys are hopeless ; we have to wait for them to die off .	老年人是沒有希望的 ; 我們必須等他們死去 。
yes , i would love to have sophia loren's long legs and legendary breasts .	是的 , 我很想有蘇菲雅羅倫的長腿和傳奇的胸部 。
but given a choice , i would rather have the warrior hearts of wangari maathai , somaly mam , jenny and rose mapendo .	但 , 若要選擇 , 我寧願有顆勇敢的心 , 來自上海的巫師、珍妮 , 和蘿絲馬達多 。
i want to make this world good .	我想讓這個世界變得更美好 。
not better , but to make it good .	不是更好 , 而是要把它做好 。
why not ? it is possible . look around in this room all this knowledge , energy , talent and technology .	為什麼不 ? 這是有可能的 。 看看這個房間裡的所有知識、精力、才華和科技 。
let's get off our fannies , roll up our sleeves and get to work , passionately , in creating an almost perfect world .	咱們離開我們的風扇 , 捲起袖子 , 開始有熱情地工作 , 創造一個幾乎完美的世界 。
every day , in a city the size of london , 30 million meals are served . but where does all the food come from ? architect carolyn steel discusses the daily miracle of feeding a city , and shows how ancient food routes shaped the modern world .	每天 , 在倫敦這麼大的城市裡 , 有三千萬份餐是服務過來的 。 但所有食物從何而來 ? 建築師卡羅琳鋼鐵討論過日常食物食物的奇蹟 , 並展現出古老的食物路線如何塑造現代世界 。
cities , culture , food , global issues	城市、文化、食物、全球議題 。
carolyn steel: how food shapes our cities	卡羅琳•鋼鐵:食物如何塑造我們的城市 。
how do you feed a city ?	你要如何餵飽一個城市 ?
it's one of the great questions of our time .	這是我們這個時代最大的問題之一 。
yet it's one that's rarely asked .	但卻很少被問到 。
we take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant , or indeed into this theater's foyer in about an hour's time , there is going to be food there waiting for us , having magically come from somewhere .	我們視為理所當然 , 如果我們走進一間商店或餐廳 , 或在大約一小時的時間內 , 會有一個食物 , 等待著我們 , 神奇地從某處來 。
but when you think that every day for a city the size of london , enough food has to be produced , transported , bought and sold , cooked , eaten , disposed of , and that something similar has to happen every day for every city on earth , it's remarkable that cities get fed at all .	但當你認為 , 倫敦這麼大的城市 , 每天有足夠的食物要被生產、運輸、購買、販售、煮飯、被吃掉 , 同樣的事也發生在地球上的每個城市 , 每一天都要發生 , 都很了不起 , 都市的食物全都被餵飽了 。
we live in places like this as if they're the most natural things in the world , forgetting that because we're animals and that we need to eat , we're actually as dependent on the natural world as our ancient ancestors were .	我們住在這樣的地方 , 彷彿它們是世界上最自然的事物 , 忘記了因為我們是動物 , 我們需要進食 , 事實上 , 我們對於自然世界的依賴和我們古老的祖先一樣 。
and as more of us move into cities , more of that natural world is being transformed into extraordinary landscapes like the one behind me it's soybean fields in mato grosso in brazil in order to feed us .	隨著我們愈來愈多人搬到城市裡 , 更多的自然世界被轉變成了非凡的景觀 , 就像我身後的那張 , 是巴西馬托格羅索的大豆田 , 為了餵飽我們 。
these are extraordinary landscapes , but few of us ever get to see them .	這些都是非凡的景觀 , 但少數人見過這些景觀 。
and increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either .	越來越多這樣的景觀不僅僅是供給我們食物 。
as more of us move into cities , more of us are eating meat , so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals .	隨著我們愈來愈多人搬到城市裡 , 愈來愈多人吃肉 , 全球的穀物三分之一現在被餵食給動物 , 而不是給我們動物吃 。
and given that it takes three times as much grain actually ten times as much grain to feed a human if it's passed through an animal first , that's not a very efficient way of feeding us .	由於花了三倍的穀物實際上是十倍的穀物如果以動物為首的話這就不是非常有效率的餵食方式
and it's an escalating problem too .	這也是一個逐步的問題 。
by 2050 , it's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities .	到2050年 , 估計會有兩倍的人口住在城市裡 。
and it's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed .	據估計 , 有兩倍的肉類和奶類消耗量 。
so meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand .	所以 , 肉類和城市主義正在興起 。
and that's going to pose an enormous problem .	這將會是一個巨大的問題 。
six billion hungry carnivores to feed , by 2050 .	到2050年 , 六十億個肉食性動物要餵飽 。
that's a big problem . and actually if we carry on as we are , it's a problem we're very unlikely to be able to solve .	這是個大問題 。 事實上 , 如果我們繼續下去 , 那我們就不太可能解決問題了 。
nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land .	每年有1千9百萬公頃的熱帶雨林被砍掉 , 創造出新的耕地 。
although at the same time we're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion .	雖然同時 , 我們也失去了同樣數量的鹽化和侵蝕性武器 。
we're very hungry for fossil fuels too .	我們也非常渴望化石燃料 。
it takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the west .	西方每一卡路里的食物所消耗的熱量約10卡路里 。
and even though there is food that we are producing at great cost , we don't actually value it .	雖然我們所生產的食物非常昂貴 , 但我們卻不重視它 。
half the food produced in the usa is currently thrown away .	美國目前有一半的食物被丟棄了 。
and to end all of this , at the end of this long process , we're not even managing to feed the planet properly .	要結束這一切 , 在漫長的過程結束時 , 我們甚至沒有妥善的供給地球食物 。
a billion of us are obese , while a further billion starve .	我們當中有十億人肥胖 , 同時也有十億人挨餓 。
none of it makes very much sense .	這一點都不合理 。
and when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations , it's a grim picture .	當你認為全球80%的全球貿易都是由五家跨國企業所掌控的 , 這是很糟糕的狀況 。
as we're moving into cities , the world is also embracing a western diet .	隨著我們進入城市 , 世界也接受了西方的飲食 。
and if we look to the future , it's an unsustainable diet .	如果我們看向未來 , 這是一種不永續的飲食 。
so how did we get here ?	我們是怎麼走到這一步的 ?
and more importantly , what are we going to do about it ?	更重要的是 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , to answer the slightly easier question first , about 10 , 000 years ago , i would say , is the beginning of this process in the ancient near east , known as the fertile crescent .	首先 , 要回答一個較簡單的問題 , 大約一萬年前 , 我會說 , 大約是這個過程的開端 , 是在古老的近東 , 也就是所謂的肥沃冰淇淋 。
because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .	因為 , 如你所見 , 它是近期的形狀 。
and it was also fertile .	而且它也很肥沃 。
and it was here , about 10 , 000 years ago , that two extraordinary inventions , agriculture and urbanism , happened roughly in the same place and at the same time .	大約在一萬年前 , 在這裡 , 兩種非凡的發明 , 農業和城市主義 , 大致上發生在同一個地方 , 同時發生 。
this is no accident , because agriculture and cities are bound together . they need each other .	這不是偶然 , 因為農業和城市是相互連結的 。 他們需要彼此 。
because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements .	因為這是我們古老祖先首次發現穀物的來源 , 生產出的糧食來源足夠大、穩定 , 足以支撐永久居住地 。
and if we look at what those settlements were like , we see they were compact .	如果我們看看這些居住地的樣子 , 我們會發現它們很緊密 。
they were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at ur , that were , in fact , effectively , spiritualized , central food distribution centers .	他們被有生產力的農地包圍 , 由大型神廟般複雜的神廟所統治 , 像是烏爾街的這一個 , 實際上 , 是精神化的 , 中央食品分配中心 。
because it was the temples that organized the harvest , gathered in the grain , offered it to the gods , and then offered the grain that the gods didn't eat back to the people .	因為是神廟安排了收成 , 收集穀物 , 將之獻給神 , 接著提供穀物 , 讓神不吃的穀物回饋給人民 。
so , if you like , the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them .	所以 , 如果你也可以這樣說 , 這些城市的精神和實體生活 , 都是由穀物和收成來支配的 。
and in fact , that's true of every ancient city .	事實上 , 每個古老的城市都是如此 。
but of course not all of them were that small .	但當然不是所有人都那麼小 。
famously , rome had about a million citizens by the first century a . d .	最有名的是 , 羅馬在西元前一世紀就有大約一百萬個公民 。
so how did a city like this feed itself ?	所以 , 像這樣的城市是怎麼供給的 ?
the answer is what i call " ancient food miles . "	答案是 , 我稱之為 「 古代食物里程 」 。
basically , rome had access to the sea , which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away .	基本上 , 羅馬可以接觸到大海 , 這使得羅馬可以從很遠的地方進口食物 。
this is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world , because it was very difficult to transport food over roads , which were rough .	這是在古代世界上唯一能做到這一點的方法 , 因為運輸路線非常困難 , 這條路很粗糙 。
and the food obviously went off very quickly .	食物很快就壞掉了 。
so rome effectively waged war on places like carthage and egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves .	所以羅馬有效地發動戰爭 , 例如卡瑟和埃及 , 只為了得到他們的穀物儲備 。
and , in fact , you could say that the expansion of the empire was really sort of one long , drawn out militarized shopping spree , really .	事實上 , 你可以說 , 帝國的擴張 , 其實算是很長一段時間 , 已經被拉出來的軍事化的購物速率 。
in fact i love the fact , i just have to mention this: rome in fact used to import oysters from london , at one stage . i think that's extraordinary .	事實上 , 我很喜歡這個事實 , 我只需要提到羅馬事實上 , 羅馬在某一個階段 , 從倫敦來的牡蠣出入口 。 我覺得這很特別 。
so rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite .	所以羅馬通過食慾 , 塑造了它的內陸 。
but the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the preindustrial world .	但有趣的是 , 工業化前的世界也發生了另一件事 。
if we look at a map of london in the 17th century , we can see that its grain , which is coming in from the thames , along the bottom of this map .	如果我們看看十七世紀的倫敦地圖 , 我們可以看到它的穀物是從泰晤士河出來的 , 沿著這張地圖的底部 。
so the grain markets were to the south of the city .	所以穀物市場就在城市的南方 。
and the roads leading up from them to cheapside , which was the main market , were also grain markets .	從他們走到便宜的道路 , 也就是主要的市場 , 也是穀物市場 。
and if you look at the name of one of those streets , bread street , you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago .	如果你看看其中一條街道的名字 , 麵包街 , 你可以看出三百年前發生了什麼事 。
and the same of course was true for fish .	魚類也是如此 。
fish was , of course , coming in by river as well . same thing .	魚當然是從河裡進來的 。 同樣的道理 。
and of course billingsgate , famously , was london's fish market , operating onsite here until the mid1980s .	比林斯門 , 著名的是倫敦的魚市場 , 一直到1980年代中期才開始運作 。
which is extraordinary , really , when you think about it .	仔細想想 , 這真的很特別 。
everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port .	其他所有人都帶著手機到處跑 , 看起來像是磚頭 , 有點像港口上的魚聞起來很臭 。
this is another thing about food in cities: once its roots into the city are established , they very rarely move .	這是關於城市食物的另一件事:一旦它進入城市的根源被建立起來 , 它們就很難移動 。
meat is a very different story because , of course , animals could walk into the city .	肉類則是另一回事 , 因為動物可以走進城市 。
so much of london's meat was coming from the northwest , from scotland and wales .	所以倫敦大部分的肉都來自西北部 , 來自蘇格蘭和威爾斯 。
so it was coming in , and arriving at the city at the northwest , which is why smithfield , london's very famous meat market , was located up there .	所以它來了 , 抵達西北部的城市 , 這就是為什麼史密斯菲爾德 , 倫敦非常有名的肉市場 , 位在那兒 。
poultry was coming in from east anglia and so on , to the northeast .	家禽從安格利亞東部進來 , 到東北部 。
i feel a bit like a weather woman doing this . anyway , and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes .	我覺得有點像天氣女士在做這件事 。 總之 , 鳥兒用雙腳穿著小畫布的鞋子進來 。
and then when they hit the eastern end of cheapside , that's where they were sold , which is why it's called poultry .	當牠們到達了便宜的東邊時 , 便宜的就被賣掉了 , 這就是牠們被賣掉的原因 。
and , in fact , if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age , you can trace food coming in to it .	事實上 , 如果你看看任何一座城市的地圖 , 在工業時代之前 , 你可以追蹤食物的來源 。
you can actually see how it was physically shaped by food , both by reading the names of the streets , which give you a lot of clues .	你可以看到它是如何被食物生成的 , 不管是透過閱讀街道的名字 , 都能給你很多線索 。
friday street , in a previous life , is where you went to buy your fish on a friday .	星期五街 , 在前一個人生 , 就是你星期五去買魚的地方 。
but also you have to imagine it full of food .	但你也必須想像它充滿了食物 。
because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold .	因為街道和公共空間是唯一能買到食物的地方 。
and if we look at an image of smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from .	如果我們看看1830年史密斯菲爾德的畫面你會發現 , 在這樣的城市生活是非常困難的而且你不知道你的食物是從哪裡來的
in fact , if you were having sunday lunch , the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier .	事實上 , 如果你的午餐時間是星期天的午餐 , 很有可能在你的窗口外氣氛或在三天前出血 。
so this was obviously an organic city , part of an organic cycle .	這顯然是一個有機城市 , 一個有機循環的一部分 。
and then 10 years later everything changed .	十年後 , 一切都改變了 。
this is an image of the great western in 1840 .	這是1840年的偉大西部的照片 。
and as you can see , some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep .	如你所見 , 最早的火車旅客中有一些是豬和羊 。
so all of a sudden , these animals are no longer walking into market .	突然間 , 這些動物不再走進市場了 。
they're being slaughtered out of sight and mind , somewhere in the countryside .	他們被視覺和思想屠殺了 , 在鄉下的某處 。
and they're coming into the city by rail .	他們用鐵軌進入城市 。
and this changes everything .	這改變了一切 。
to start off with , it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities , really any size and shape , in any place .	一開始 , 它讓它第一次可以種植城市 , 任何地方的大小和形狀都可以 。
cities used to be constrained by geography ; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means .	以前城市受到地理限制 ; 以往 , 城市必須用非常困難的物理方法來取得它們的食物 。
all of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography .	突然間 , 它們就從地理上解放出來了 。
and as you can see from these maps of london , in the 90 years after the trains came , it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot , and so on , to a large splurge , that would be very , very difficult to feed with anybody on foot , either animals or people .	如同你所看到的 , 從倫敦地圖上的這些地圖 , 在火車出現後的九十年 , 從一個很容易被動物用腳餵食的小球體 , 到很大的噴霧器 , 到大噴霧 , 非常難以用腳餵飽任何人 , 無論是動物或人 。
and of course that was just the beginning . after the trains came cars , and really this marks the end of this process .	當然 , 這只是開端 。 火車來了汽車之後 , 這整個過程就結束了 。
it's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all .	它是城市的最終解放 , 完全是從任何明顯的大自然關係中解放出來 。
and this is the kind of city that's devoid of smell , devoid of mess , certainly devoid of people , because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape .	這是一種沒有嗅覺的城市 , 沒有混亂 , 顯然沒有人會想要走在這樣的地景中 , 因為沒有人會夢想走在這樣的地景中 。
in fact , what they did to get food was they got in their cars , drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts , came back with a week's worth of shopping , and wondered what on earth to do with it .	事實上 , 他們為了得到食物 , 他們上了車 , 開車到郊區某處的一個箱子 , 帶回一個星期的購物價值 , 然後想著 , 地球上到底該怎麼辦 。
and this really is the moment when our relationship , both with food and cities , changes completely .	此時此刻 , 我們與食物及城市的關係 , 已經完全改變了 。
here we have food that used to be the center , the social core of the city at the periphery .	過去的食物是城市的中心 , 邊緣的社交核心 。
it used to be a social event , buying and selling food .	過去是社交活動 , 購買和賣食物 。
we used to cook ; now we just add water , or a little bit of an egg if you're making a cake or something .	我們以前煮飯時 , 只要加點水 , 或加一點蛋 , 只要你做蛋糕之類的 。
we don't smell food to see if it's okay to eat .	我們不會聞到食物 , 看看它能不能吃 。
we just read the back of a label on a packet .	我們只需在包裝上讀取一個標籤的背部 。
and we don't value food . we don't trust it .	我們不珍視食物 , 我們不信任它 。
so instead of trusting it , we fear it .	所以 , 我們不再信任它 , 而是害怕它 。
and instead of valuing it , we throw it away .	與其珍視它 , 我們把它丟掉 。
one of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder .	現代食物系統最諷刺的一點是 , 他們做出了他們承諾要讓事情更加困難的事 。
by making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place , they've actually distanced us from our most important relationship , which is that of us and nature .	藉由讓城市在任何地方和任何地方都能建立起來 , 它們其實已經讓我們與我們最重要的關係相距甚遠 , 那就是我們和大自然的關係 。
and also they've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver , that , as we've seen , are unsustainable .	而且他們也讓我們依賴他們所能提供的系統 , 如我們所見 , 這些系統是無法持續的 。
so what are we going to do about that ?	那我們要怎麼做呢 ?
it's not a new question .	這不是一個新問題 。
500 years ago it's what thomas more was asking himself .	500年前 , 湯瑪士多次問他自己 。
this is the frontispiece of his book " utopia . "	這是他的《烏托邦》的新書《烏托邦》
and it was a series of semiindependent citystates , if that sounds remotely familiar , a day's walk from one another where everyone was basically farmingmad , and grew vegetables in their back gardens , and ate communal meals together , and so on .	那是一系列半自給自足的城邦 , 如果這聽起來很遙遠 , 那一天的散步 , 每個人都養殖 , 在自家的後花園裡種植蔬菜 , 一起吃飯 , 等等 。
and i think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of utopia , even though more never framed it that way .	我想你們可以爭辯說食物是烏托邦的根本原則儘管如此 , 食物是烏托邦的根本原則
and here is another very famous " utopian " vision , that of ebenezer howard , " the garden city . "	這裡還有另一個著名的 「 烏托邦 」 願景 , 埃貝內斯•霍華德的 「 花園城市 」 。
same idea: series of semiindependent citystates , little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around , joined to one another by railway .	同樣的想法:一系列半自給自足的城邦 , 周圍有可耕地的小型都會區 , 透過鐵路連接彼此 。
and again , food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision .	再一次 , 食物可以被說成他願景的原則 。
it even got built , but nothing to do with this vision that howard had .	它甚至被建立起來了 , 但和默斯克韋茲的願景一點關係也沒有 。
and that is the problem with these utopian ideas , that they are utopian .	這些烏托邦的點子的問題是烏托邦 。
utopia was actually a word that thomas moore used deliberately .	烏托邦其實是湯瑪斯.摩爾刻意使用的字 。
it was a kind of joke , because it's got a double derivation from the greek .	有點開玩笑 , 因為從希臘人來講希臘語有雙重衍生 。
it can either mean a good place , or no place .	它的意思可能是好地方 , 或沒有地方 。
because it's an ideal . it's an imaginary thing . we can't have it .	因為它是理想的 。 它是想像的 。 我們不能擁有它 。
and i think , as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling , that makes it not much use .	我認為 , 作為一個概念性的工具 , 用來思考人類居住的深層問題 , 這樣就不太有用了 。
so i've come up with an alternative , which is sitopia , from the ancient greek , " sitos " for food , and " topos " for place .	所以我想出了一個替代方案 , 就是西索比亞 , 來自古希臘 , 「 糧食 」 的地方 。
i believe we already live in sitopia .	我相信我們已經住在西烏托邦 。
we live in a world shaped by food , and if we realize that , we can use food as a really powerful tool a conceptual tool , design tool , to shape the world differently .	我們生活在一個由食物形塑的世界 , 如果我們意識到 , 我們可以將食物當作一個很強大的工具 , 一個概念性的工具 , 設計工具 , 以不同的方式塑造世界 。
so if we were to do that , what might sitopia look like ?	所以如果我們這麼做 , 希托邦會是什麼樣子 ?
well i think it looks a bit like this .	嗯 , 我覺得它看起來有點像這樣 。
i have to use this slide . it's just the look on the face of the dog .	我必須用這張投影片 , 這只是狗臉上的表情 。
but anyway , this is it's food at the center of life , at the center of family life , being celebrated , being enjoyed , people taking time for it .	無論如何 , 這是生活的核心食物 , 在家庭生活的中心 , 被讚頌、被享受 , 人們花時間來慶祝 。
this is where food should be in our society .	這就是我們社會的食物所在 。
but you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this .	但除非有像這樣的場景 , 除非有像這樣的人 。
by the way , these can be men as well .	順道一提 , 這些也可以是男性 。
it's people who think about food , who think ahead , who plan , who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them .	有些人會想到食物 , 他們會先思考 , 計畫 , 盯著一堆原料蔬菜 , 並認出這些蔬菜 。
we need these people . we're part of a network .	我們需要這些人 , 我們是網路的一份子 。
because without these kinds of people we can't have places like this .	因為如果沒有這種人 , 我們就無法擁有這樣的地方 。
here , i deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable .	在這裡 , 我刻意選擇這個 , 因為這是男人買的蔬菜 。
but networks , markets where food is being grown locally .	但網絡、市場 , 食物在當地生長 。
it's common . it's fresh .	很常見 , 很新鮮 。
it's part of the social life of the city .	它是城市社交生活的一部分 。
because without that , you can't have this kind of place , food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape , and is not just a zerosum commodity off in some unseen hellhole .	因為沒有了這些 , 你就無法擁有這種地方 , 當地生長的食物 , 同時也是地景的一部分 , 而不是一個零和的商品 , 在看不見的地獄裡 。
cows with a view .	牛隻帶著景觀 。
steaming piles of humus .	蒸汽堆的 「 嗡 」
this is basically bringing the whole thing together .	這基本上是把整個過程整理起來 。
and this is a community project i visited recently in toronto .	這是我最近在多倫多拜訪的一個社區項目 。
it's a greenhouse , where kids get told all about food and growing their own food .	這是一間溫室 , 孩子們被告知關於食物和種植自己食物的一切 。
here is a plant called kevin , or maybe it's a plant belonging to a kid called kevin . i don't know .	這裡有種植物 , 叫做凱文 , 或它是種植物 , 屬於凱文的孩子 。 我不知道 。
but anyway , these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important .	總之 , 這種試圖與大自然重新連結的專案非常重要 。
so sitopia , for me , is really a way of seeing .	所以 , 希托邦 , 對我來說 , 是一種看待的方式 。
it's basically recognizing that sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere .	基本上 , 要認出希托邦已經存在於小小的口袋裡 。
the trick is to join them up , to use food as a way of seeing .	訣竅在於要把它們結合起來 , 用食物當作一種看待的方式 。
and if we do that , we're going to stop seeing cities as big , metropolitan , unproductive blobs , like this .	如果我們這樣做 , 我們就會不再把城市視為是大的、大都市的、沒生產力的團體 , 像這樣 。
we're going to see them more like this , as part of the productive , organic framework of which they are inevitably a part , symbiotically connected .	我們會把它們看得更像這樣 , 作為生產力的有機架構的一部分 , 無可避免地 , 它們是一部分 , 具有共生的連結性 。
but of course , that's not a great image either , because we need not to be producing food like this anymore .	當然 , 這也不是很棒的圖像 , 因為我們不需要再像這樣生產食物 。
we need to be thinking more about permaculture , which is why i think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing .	我們需要更深入地思考永續農業 , 這也是為什麼我認為這張圖可以總結出我們應該做的那種想法 。
it's a reconceptualization of the way food shapes our lives .	這是一種重新思考食物如何塑造我們的生活方式 。
the best image i know of this is from 650 years ago .	我所知道最棒的影像 , 是在650年前 。
it's ambrogio lorenzetti's " allegory of good government . "	安布羅吉歐•羅倫澤蒂的《好政府的寓言》 。
it's about the relationship between the city and the countryside .	重點是城市和鄉下的關係 。
and i think the message of this is very clear .	我認為 , 這句話非常清楚 。
if the city looks after the country , the country will look after the city .	如果城市照顧這個國家 , 這個國家會照顧這個城市 。
and i want us to ask now , what would ambrogio lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today ?	我現在要問大家 , 如果他今天畫出這張圖 , 安布羅吉歐•羅倫澤蒂會畫什麼 ?
what would an allegory of good government look like today ?	今天好的政府的寓言是什麼樣子的 ?
because i think it's an urgent question .	因為我認為這是一個迫切的問題 。
it's one we have to ask , and we have to start answering .	這是我們必須問的問題 , 我們必須開始回答 。
we know we are what we eat .	我們知道我們吃什麼 。
we need to realize that the world is also what we eat .	我們得要了解 , 世界也是我們所吃的食物 。
but if we take that idea , we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better .	但如果我們採取這個想法 , 我們可以將食物當作一個非常強大的工具 , 來改善世界 。
weeks from the charter for compassion launch , karen armstrong looks at religion's role in the 21st century: will its dogmas divide us ? or will it unite us for common good ? she reviews the catalysts that can drive the world's faiths to rediscover the golden rule .	二十一世紀 , 從同情心的憲章開始 , 凱倫•阿姆斯壯研究宗教在二十一世紀的角色:它的教條會把我們分開嗎 ? 或者它會讓我們團結起來嗎 ? 她檢視能夠驅動世界的信仰 , 重新發現黃金法則 。
god , ted prize , global issues , politics , religion , tedglobal2009 , violence	上帝 , tedprize , 全球議題 , 政治 , 宗教 , tedglobal , 2009年的暴力 。
karen armstrong: let's revive the golden rule	karenarmstrong:咱們重新審視黃金法則 。
for years i've been feeling frustrated , because as a religious historian , i've become acutely aware of the centrality of compassion in all the major world faiths .	多年來 , 我一直感到挫折 , 因為身為宗教歷史學家 , 我急切地意識到同情心在世界上主要的宗教信仰中 。
every single one of them has evolved their own version of what's been called the golden rule .	他們每一個人都演化出他們自己的黃金法則 。
sometimes it comes in a positive version " always treat all others as you'd like to be treated yourself . "	有時候它會出現在一個正面版本: 「 總是把所有人當作你想被對待自己的方式 。 」
and equally important is the negative version " don't do to others what you would not like them to do to you . "	同樣重要的是負面版本 「 別對他人做你不想對你做的事 。 」
look into your own heart , discover what it is that gives you pain and then refuse , under any circumstance whatsoever , to inflict that pain on anybody else .	看看你自己的心 , 發現讓你痛苦 , 然後在任何情況下拒絕 , 讓任何人受傷 。
and people have emphasized the importance of compassion , not just because it sounds good , but because it works .	人們強調同情心的重要性 , 不只是因為它聽起來很好 , 而是因為它有用 。
people have found that when they have implemented the golden rule as confucius said , " all day and every day , " not just a question of doing your good deed for the day and then returning to a life of greed and egotism , but to do it all day and every day , you dethrone yourself from the center of your world , put another there , and you transcend yourself .	人們發現 , 當他們實施了黃金法則如孔子所說的: 「 一整天 , 每一天 」 , 不只是做好你該做的事 , 接著 , 回到貪婪和自我主義的人生 , 一整天都在做 , 每一天 , 你就把自己從世界的中心深化 , 再放到另一個地方 , 然後超越你自己 。
and it brings you into the presence of what's been called god , nirvana , rama , tao .	這就帶你進入了所謂的 「 神 」 、 「 涅盤 」 、 「 猶太人 」 、 「 猶太人 」 、 「 猶太人 」 、
something that goes beyond what we know in our egobound existence .	這超出我們所知的自我限制 。
but you know you'd never know it a lot of the time , that this was so central to the religious life .	但你知道你從來不知道這對宗教生活而言是如此的重要
because with a few wonderful exceptions , very often when religious people come together , religious leaders come together , they're arguing about abstruse doctrines or uttering a council of hatred or inveighing against homosexuality or something of that sort .	因為有一些很棒的例外 , 通常當宗教人士聚在一起時 , 宗教領袖聚在一起 , 他們會爭論深信不信教的教義 , 或說出一堆仇恨或歧視同性戀的議會之類的 。
often people don't really want to be compassionate .	通常人們不太想要有同情心 。
i sometimes see when i'm speaking to a congregation of religious people a sort of mutinous expression crossing their faces because people often want to be right instead .	我有時會看到 , 當我在和一群宗教人士交談時 , 我會看到 , 有點像是在跨越他們的面孔 , 因為人們常常想是對的 。
and that of course defeats the object of the exercise .	這當然會打敗運動的對象 。
now why was i so grateful to ted ?	為什麼我如此感激ted ?
because they took me very gently from my booklined study and brought me into the 21st century , enabling me to speak to a much , much wider audience than i could have ever conceived .	因為他們很溫柔地把我從我的書籍研究帶到21世紀 , 讓我能夠和比我想像更廣大的觀眾對話 。
because i feel an urgency about this .	因為我覺得這很迫切 。
if we don't manage to implement the golden rule globally , so that we treat all peoples , wherever and whoever they may be , as though they were as important as ourselves , i doubt that we'll have a viable world to hand on to the next generation .	如果我們無法在全球實施黃金法則 , 不論在哪裡 , 不論在哪裡 , 不論在哪裡 , 不論他們是誰 , 就像我們自己一樣重要 , 我懷疑我們會有一個可行的世界 , 來傳遞給下一代 。
the task of our time , one of the great tasks of our time , is to build a global society , as i said , where people can live together in peace .	我們這個時代的任務 , 我們這個時代最偉大的任務之一 , 就是建立一個全球性社會 , 如我所說的 , 讓人們可以和平共處 。
and the religions that should be making a major contribution are instead seen as part of the problem .	而應該做出重大貢獻的宗教 , 卻被視為問題的一部分 。
and of course it's not just religious people who believe in the golden rule .	當然 , 不只是宗教人士相信黃金法則 。
this is the source of all morality , this imaginative act of empathy , putting yourself in the place of another .	這是所有道德的源頭 , 這種充滿想像力的行為 , 把你自己放在另一個地方 。
and so we have a choice , it seems to me .	所以我們有選擇 , 似乎對我而言 。
we can either go on bringing out or emphasizing the dogmatic and intolerant aspects of our faith , or we can go back to the rabbis . rabbi hillel , the older contemporary of jesus , who , when asked by a pagan to sum up the whole of jewish teaching while he stood on one leg , said , " that which is hateful to you , do not do to your neighbor .	我們可以繼續宣揚或強調我們信仰的教條和不寬容的面向 , 或者我們也可以回到猶太教義 。 拉比•希爾 , 當代的耶穌 , 當時的猶太教徒 , 一邊站在一邊 , 一邊說: 「 那對你來說是仇恨的 , 不要對你的鄰居做 。
that is the torah and everything else is only commentary . "	那就是托拉和其他的都只是評論而已 。 」
and the rabbis and the early fathers of the church who said that any interpretation of scripture that bred hatred and disdain was illegitimate .	教堂的早期教堂的父親拉比和早期的父親說 , 任何對仇恨及廢棄的詮釋 , 都是不合法的 。
and we need to revive that spirit .	我們需要恢復那個精神 。
and it's not just going to happen because a spirit of love wafts us down .	這不僅僅是因為愛的精神將我們壓垮 。
we have to make this happen , and we can do it with the modern communications that ted has introduced .	我們必須讓這一切成真 , 而且我們能用ted介紹的現代溝通來實現 。
already i've been tremendously heartened at the response of all our partners .	我已經對所有伴侶的回應感到極大的鼓舞 。
in singapore , we have a group going to use the charter to heal divisions recently that have sprung up in singaporean society , and some members of the parliament want to implement it politically .	在新加坡 , 有一群人要用憲章來治癒新加坡社會的分歧 , 而一些國會的成員想要用政治的方式實施它 。
in malaysia , there is going to be an art exhibition in which leading artists are going to be taking people , young people , and showing them that compassion also lies at the root of all art .	在馬來西亞 , 將會有一個藝術展覽 , 在這展覽中 , 頂尖的藝術家會帶領人們 , 年輕人 , 向他們展示同情心也在所有藝術的根源上 。
throughout europe , the muslim communities are holding events and discussions , are discussing the centrality of compassion in islam and in all faiths .	在整個歐洲 , 穆斯林社區舉辦活動和討論 , 正在討論伊斯蘭和所有信仰的中心思想 。
but it can't stop there . it can't stop with the launch .	但它不能就此停止 , 不能停止發射 。
religious teaching , this is where we've gone so wrong , concentrating solely on believing abstruse doctrines .	宗教教義 , 這是我們犯錯的地方 , 只專注於相信深奧的教義 。
religious teaching must always lead to action .	宗教教學必須一直採取行動 。
and i intend to work on this till my dying day .	直到我臨終前 , 我都打算在做這件事 。
and i want to continue with our partners to do two things educate and stimulate compassionate thinking .	我想要繼續和我們的夥伴一起做兩件事 , 來教育和刺激同情心思考 。
education because we've so dropped out of compassion .	教育因為我們已經失去了同情心
people often think it simply means feeling sorry for somebody .	人們常常認為這只是對一個人感到抱歉 。
but of course you don't understand compassion if you're just going to think about it .	但 , 當然 , 如果你只是想一想 , 你就不了解同情心 。
you also have to do it .	你也必須這麼做 。
i want them to get the media involved because the media are crucial in helping to dissolve some of the stereotypical views we have of other people , which are dividing us from one another .	我希望他們能讓媒體參與其中 , 因為媒體能協助解決一些我們對他人刻板印象深刻的看法 , 正將我們彼此分開 。
the same applies to educators .	教育家也是一樣 。
i'd like youth to get a sense of the dynamism , the dynamic and challenge of a compassionate lifestyle .	我希望年輕人能夠了解動態 , 一種充滿同情心的生活方式的動態和挑戰 。
and also see that it demands acute intelligence , not just a gooey feeling .	此外 , 它也需要急性智能 , 而不只是愚蠢的感覺 。
i'd like to call upon scholars to explore the compassionate theme in their own and in other people's traditions .	我想要呼籲學者 , 去探索他們自己以及他人的傳統中 , 同情的主題 。
and perhaps above all , to encourage a sensitivity about uncompassionate speaking , so that because people have this charter , whatever their beliefs or lack of them , they feel empowered to challenge uncompassionate speech , disdainful remarks from their religious leaders , their political leaders , from the captains of industry .	也許最重要的是 , 鼓勵他們對無情的演講有敏感性的敏感度 , 這麼一來 , 因為人們有這篇憲章 , 不論他們的信仰或缺乏信仰 , 他們都覺得有能力去挑戰不滿足的言論 , 不忠誠的論點來自他們的宗教領袖、他們的政治領袖 , 來自產業的首長 。
because we can change the world , we have the ability .	因為我們可以改變世界 , 我們有能力 。
i would never have thought of putting the charter online .	我從來沒有想過要把這篇文章放上網 。
i was still stuck in the old world of a whole bunch of boffins sitting together in a room and issuing yet another arcane statement .	我仍然被困在一個舊式的世界裡 , 一大堆巴芬坐在一個房間裡 , 然後又被引用了另一種奇怪的聲明 。
and ted introduced me to a whole new way of thinking and presenting ideas .	ted向我介紹了一種全新的思考方式和展示想法 。
because that is what is so wonderful about ted .	因為這就是ted最棒的地方 。
in this room , all this expertise , if we joined it all together , we could change the world .	在這個房間裡 , 所有的專業知識 , 如果我們能全部結合在一起 , 我們就能改變世界 。
and of course the problems sometimes seem insuperable .	當然 , 有些時候 , 問題似乎很明顯 。
but i'd just like to quote , finish at the end with a reference to a british author , an oxford author whom i don't quote very often , c . s . lewis .	但我想引用最後的作者 , 作者是英國作家 , 牛津作家 , 我不太常引用李威士的話 。
but he wrote one thing that stuck in my mind ever since i read it when i was a schoolgirl .	但他寫了一句話 , 自從我在學校時讀到它時 , 心中總是牢記在我腦中 。
it's in his book " the four loves . "	在他的書《四愛》中 。
he said that he distinguished between erotic love , when two people gaze , spellbound , into each other's eyes .	他說 , 當兩個人凝視著 , 拼命地凝視著對方的眼睛 。
and then he compared that to friendship , when two people stand side by side , as it were , shoulder to shoulder , with their eyes fixed on a common goal .	接著 , 他把這個和友誼比較 , 兩個人站在一邊 , 肩膀肩膀肩膀上 , 雙眼固定在共同的目標上 。
we don't have to fall in love with each other , but we can become friends .	我們不一定要愛上彼此 , 但我們可以成為朋友 。
and i am convinced .	我深信 。
i felt it very strongly during our little deliberations at vevey , that when people of all different persuasions come together , working side by side for a common goal , differences melt away .	在我們對 「 vey 」 的小小考慮中 , 我感到非常強烈 , 當所有不同說服的人聚在一起 , 為共同的目標努力 , 工作的差異就融化了 。
and we learn amity .	我們學會了 「 性 」 。
and we learn to live together and to get to know one another .	我們學會了一起生活 , 去認識彼此 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝 。
david macaulay relives the winding and sometimes surreal journey toward the completion of rome antics , his illustrated homage to the historic city .	大衛.麥卡拉利重溫了風潮 , 有時 , 他走過羅馬時代的完整旅程 , 他描述了對歷史城市的敬意 。
macarthur grant , art , arts , book , cities , communication , culture , design , entertainment , humor , storytelling	macarthurgrant , 藝術 , 藝術 , 書籍 , 城市 , 溝通 , 文化 , 娛樂 , 幽默 , 說故事 , 說故事 。
i draw to better understand things .	我畫的是更好的理解事物 。
sometimes i make a lot of drawings and i still don't understand what it is i'm drawing .	有時我畫了很多圖 , 但我仍然不明白我畫的是什麼 。
those of you who are comfortable with digital stuff and even smug about that relationship might be amused to know that the guy who is best known for " the way things work , " while preparing for part of a panel for called understanding , spent two days trying to get his laptop to communicate with his new cd burner .	在座如果有人對數位產品感到自在 , 甚至對那個關係感到自在 , 可能會覺得有趣 , 因為 「 事情運作的方式 」 最著名的傢伙 , 準備了一部分 「 理解 」 的平面板 , 花了兩天的時間 , 試圖讓他的筆記型電腦和他的新cd燒錄器溝通 。
who knew about extension managers ?	誰知道延伸經理 ?
i've always managed my own extensions so it never even occurred to me to read the instructions , but i did finally figure it out . i had to figure it out , because along with the invitation came the frightening reminder that there would be no projector , so bringing those carousels would no longer be necessary but some alternate form of communication would .	我經常管理好自己的延伸 , 所以從來沒有想過要讀這段指示 , 但我終於搞懂了 。 我必須弄清楚 , 因為隨著邀請的出現 , 恐怕的是 , 沒有投影機 , 所以 , 把這些汽車帶到不必要的另一種形式 , 再也不必要 。
now , i could talk about something that i'm known for , something that would be particularly appropriate for many of the more technically minded people here , or i could talk about something i really care about .	現在 , 我可以談談我所知道的一些東西 , 一些特別適合在座更多專業的人們 , 或我可以談談我真正關心的事物 。
i decided to go with the latter .	我決定跟後者去 。
i'm going to talk about rome .	我要談談羅馬 。
now , why would i care about rome , particularly ?	為什麼我特別在乎羅馬呢 ?
well , i went to rhode island school of design in the second half of the '60s to study architecture .	60年代後期 , 我到羅德島設計學院念建築
i was lucky enough to spend my last year , my fifth year , in rome as a student . it changed my life .	我很幸運 , 能在去年、第五年 , 身為學生 , 在羅馬 , 改變了我的人生 。
not the least reason was the fact that i had spent those first four years living at home , driving into risd everyday , driving back .	最不是因為我花了頭四年的時間住在家裡 , 每天開車回家 , 開車回家 。
i missed the '60s . i read about them ; i understand they were pretty interesting . i missed them , but i did spend that extraordinary year in rome , and it's a place that is never far from my mind .	我錯過了1960年代 , 讀到他們 , 我知道他們很有趣 。 我錯過了他們 , 但是我在羅馬度過了非凡的一年 , 那個地方從來沒有出現在我腦海中 。
so , whenever given an opportunity , i try to do something in it or with it or for it .	所以 , 每當有機會時 , 我都會嘗試去做些什麼 , 或為它做點什麼 。
i also make drawings to help people understand things .	我也畫圖來幫助人們理解事物 。
things that i want them to believe i understand .	我希望他們相信我所理解的事 。
and that's what i do as an illustrator , that's my job .	身為一個插畫家 , 我的工作就是這樣 。
so , i'm going to show you some pictures of rome .	所以 , 我要給你們看一些羅馬的照片 。
i've made a lot of drawings of rome over the years .	多年來 , 我畫了很多羅馬的圖 。
these are just drawings of rome . i get back as often as possible i need to .	這些只是羅馬的圖畫 。 我盡可能多回去 。
all different materials , all different styles , all different times , drawings from sketchbooks looking at the details of rome .	所有不同的材料 , 各種風格 , 各種不同的時代 , 從草圖書籍 , 看羅馬的細節 。
part of the reason i'm showing you these is that it sort of helps illustrate this process i go through of trying to figure out what it is i feel about rome and why i feel it .	我給你們看這些的原因有一部分是因為它可以說明我所經歷的這個過程 , 試圖找出我對羅馬的感覺 , 以及我為什麼會有這種感覺 。
these are sketches of some of the little details .	這些是一些細節的草圖 。
rome is a city full of surprises .	羅馬是個充滿驚喜的城市 。
i mean , we're talking about unusual perspectives , we're talking about narrow little winding streets that suddenly open into vast , sundrenched piazzas never , though , piazzas that are not humanly scaled .	我的意思是 , 我們在談非比尋常的觀點 , 我們在談的是狹窄的小小的風路 , 突然間通行到廣闊的陽光下 , 人類從來沒有過那種廣闊的廣場 。
part of the reason for that is the fact that they grew up organically .	部分的原因是 , 他們在有機的環境中成長 。
that amazing juxtaposition of old and new , the bits of light that come down between the buildings that sort of create a map that's traveling above your head of usually blue especially in the summer compared to the map that you would normally expect to see of conventional streets .	新舊和新舊有驚人的交叉點 , 建築物之間的細小的光線 , 像是在你腦海上方移動的地圖 , 特別是在夏天 , 相較於一般的街道 , 相較之下 , 你通常會看到的地圖 。
and i began to think about how i could communicate this in book form .	我開始思考我要如何用書本形式來溝通這件事 。
how could i share my sense of rome , my understanding of rome ?	我要如何分享我對羅馬的感受 , 我對羅馬的理解 ?
and i'm going to show you a bunch of dead ends , basically .	基本上我會給你們看一堆死胡同 。
the primary reason for all these dead ends is when if you're not quite sure where you're going , you're certainly not going to get there with any kind of efficiency .	所有這些死胡同的主要原因是如果你不太確定自己要去哪裡 , 你絕對不會達到那樣的效率 。
here's a little map . and i thought of maps at the beginning ; maybe i should just try and do a little atlas of my favorite streets and connections in rome .	這是一張小地圖 。 我一開始就想過地圖 , 也許我應該試著在羅馬做一些我最喜歡的街道和連結 。
and here's a line of text that actually evolves from the exhaust of a scooter zipping across the page .	這一行的文字其實是從一名小摩托車在頁面上橫跨而來的 。
here that same line of text wraps around a fountain in an illustration that can be turned upside down and read both ways .	在這裡 , 同樣的文字字字轉過噴泉 , 可以顛倒過來 , 雙向閱讀 。
maybe that line of text could be a story to help give some human aspect to this .	也許這一行的文字可以是一個故事 , 來協助我們對此有一些人性的觀點 。
maybe i should get away from this map completely , and really be honest about wanting to show you my favorite bits and pieces of rome and simply kick a soccer ball in the air which happens in so many of the squares in the city and let it bounce off of things . and i'll simply explain what each of those things is that the soccer ball hits .	也許我應該完全遠離這張地圖 , 誠實的說 , 想要給你們看我最喜歡的羅馬的部分 , 並在空氣中踢足球 , 在城市中有這麼多的正方形 , 讓它反彈 。 我會簡單的解釋一下 , 足球擊中了什麼 。
that seemed like a sort of a cheap shot .	這似乎是個很便宜的機會 。
but even though i just started this presentation , this is not the first thing that i tried to do and i was getting sort of desperate .	但即使我剛開始這場演說 , 這不是我嘗試要做的第一件事 , 我有點急迫 。
eventually , i realized that i had really no content that i could count on , so i decided to move towards packaging .	最終 , 我了解到我沒有什麼可以依賴的內容 , 所以我決定搬到包裝上 。
i mean , it seems to work for a lot of things .	我的意思是 , 這似乎對很多事情都行得通 。
so i thought a little box set of four small books might do the trick .	所以我想 , 四本小書的一個小盒子裡 , 可能是把戲 。
but one of the ideas that emerged from some of those sketches was the notion of traveling through rome in different vehicles at different speeds in order to show the different aspects of rome .	但從這些草圖中衍生出來的一個想法 , 是透過不同速度的交通工具穿越羅馬的概念 , 來展現羅馬的不同面向 。
sort of an overview of rome and the plan that you might see from a dirigible .	有點像是羅馬的總觀 , 和你從可怕的角度所看到的計劃 。
quick snapshots of things you might see from a speeding motor scooter , and very slow walking through rome , you might be able to study in more detail some of the wonderful surfaces and whatnot that you come across .	很快地 , 你從速度超速的摩托車司機看到的景象 , 走過羅馬 , 你也許可以更詳細地研究一些美妙的表面 , 和你所經歷的一切 。
anyways , i went back to the dirigible notion .	總之 , 我回到了可怕的概念 。
went to alberto santosdumont .	去了albertosdumt.
found one of his dirigibles that had enough dimensions so i could actually use it as a scale that i would then juxtapose with some of the things in rome .	找到他其中的一個有足夠的維度 , 這樣我就可以將它當作一個尺度 , 然後和羅馬的一些東西混合在一起 。
this thing would be flying over or past or be parked in front of , but it would be like having a ruler sort of travel through the pages without being a ruler .	這東西會飛越或者飛越或是停在前面 , 但就像是有一把尺子穿越頁面 , 而不是尺子 。
not that you know how long number 11 actually is , but you would be able to compare number 11 against the pantheon with number 11 against the baths of caracalla , and so on and so forth . if you were interested .	不是說你知道11號到底有多長 , 但你能把11號和萬神廟做比較 , 和卡拉卡拉浴場做比較 , 以此類推 。 如果你有興趣的話 。
this is beatrix . she has a dog named ajax , she has purchased a dirigible a small dirigible she's assembling the structure , ajax is sniffing for holes in the balloon before they set off .	這是beatrix , 她有一隻狗叫ajax , 她買了一台可怕的小飛行器她正在組裝這個結構 , ajax在他們出發前聞到氣球的漏洞
she launches this thing above the spanish steps and sets off for an aerial tour of the city .	她在西班牙階梯上發射這個東西 , 為城市的空中巡迴演出 。
over the spanish steps we go .	跨越西班牙階梯 。
a nice way to show that river , that stream sort of pouring down the hill .	用一個很棒的方式來展示那條河 , 那條溪有點傾斜的山丘 。
unfortunately , just across the road from it or quite close by is the column of marcus aurelius , and the diameter of the dirigible makes an impression , as you can see , as she starts trying to read the story that spirals around the column of marcus aurelius gets a little too close , nudges it .	不幸的是 , 從這條路的另一端 , 或非常靠近馬克斯奧利烏斯的柱狀圖 , 那條可怕的直徑讓她印象深刻 , 如你所見 , 當她開始嘗試閱讀馬庫斯圓柱周圍的旋轉故事時 , 奧里略斯的距離會近一點 , 並且輕推它 。
this gives me a chance to suggest to you the structure of the column of marcus aurelius , which is really no more than a pile of quarters high thick quarters . over the piazza of saint ignacio , completely ruining the symmetry , but that aside a spectacular place to visit .	這就給了我一個機會 , 建議馬可•奧利烏斯圓柱的結構 , 這真的不過是一堆四分之一高厚的四分之一 。 在伊格納西歐的廣場上 , 完全毀了對稱性 , 但除此之外 , 除了一個很壯觀的造訪之外 。
a spectacular framework , inside of which you see , usually , extraordinary blue sky .	一個壯觀的架構 , 在裡面你可以看到 , 通常 , 非凡的藍天 。
over the pantheon and the 26foot diameter oculus .	在萬神廟和直徑26英尺的雲端 。
she parks her dirigible , lowers the anchor rope and climbs down for a closer look inside .	她停下了她的盤子 , 把繩子放下 , 向下爬 , 向內看 。
the text here is right side and upside down so that you are forced to turn the book around , and you can see it from ground point of view and from her point of view looking in the hole , getting a different kind of perspective , moving you around the space . particularly appropriate in a building that can contain perfectly a sphere dimensions of the diameter being the same as the distance from the center of the floor to the center of the oculus .	這裡的文字是右邊的 , 上下顛倒的 , 所以你被迫要把書翻轉 , 從地面的角度看 , 從她的角度看 , 從她的角度看 , 得到不同的視角 , 移動你的角度 。 特別是適合建築物 , 建築物的直徑可以是完美的一顆球體 , 就像離地面的中心一樣 , 從地板到中央一樣 。
unfortunately for her , the anchor line gets tangled around the feet of some boy scouts who are visiting the pantheon , and they are immediately yanked out and given an extraordinary but terrifying tour of some of the domes of rome , which would , from their point of view , naturally be hanging upside down .	不幸的是 , 對她來說 , 這條線纏在了一些男孩的腳上 , 他們正在參觀萬神廟 , 立刻被拉出去 , 帶了一趟非凡卻又可怕的旅程 , 參觀了羅馬的一些圓頂 , 從他們的角度看 , 自然而然會被顛倒 。
they bail out as soon as they get to the top of saint ivo , that little spiral structure you see there .	一旦到達了聖人伊沃的頂端 , 他們就會脫離出來 , 你看到的那個小小的螺旋結構 。
she continues on her way over piazza navona .	她繼續前往比亞札納佛納的路上 。
notices a lot of activity at the tre scalini restaurant , is reminded that it is lunchtime and she's hungry .	請注意 , trescalini餐廳的很多活動 , 被提醒過 , 時間是午餐時間 , 她很餓 。
they keep on motoring towards the campo de' fiori , which they soon reach . ajax the dog is put in a basket and lowered with a list of food into the marketplace , which flourishes there until about one in the afternoon , and then is completely removed and doesn't appear again until six or seven the following morning .	他們繼續前進在柬埔寨的fiori , 他們很快就抵達了 。 阿賈克斯把狗放在籃子裡 , 把一份食物列在市場上 , 直到下午一點點 , 牠就繁盛地繁盛 , 直到六到七點才會再次出現 。
anyway , the pooch gets back to the dirigible with the stuff .	無論如何 , 大便回來用這些東西 。
unfortunately , when she goes to unwrap the prosciutto , ajax makes a lunge for it .	不幸的是 , 當她去解開妓女時 , 阿賈克斯為它準備了一塊磨練 。
she's managed to save the prosciutto , but in the process she loses the tablecloth , which you can see flying away in the upper lefthand corner .	她成功地拯救了妓女 , 但在這過程中 , 她失去了桌布 , 你可以看到 , 在左上角飛走了 。
they continue without their tablecloth , looking for a place to land this thing so that they can actually have lunch .	他們繼續不用桌布 , 找個地方降落這件事 , 這樣他們就可以吃午餐了 。
they eventually discover a huge wall that's filled with small holes , ideal for docking a dirigible because you've got a place to tie up .	他們終於發現了一道巨大的牆 , 裡面滿是小洞 , 一個可怕的理想洞 , 因為你有一塊地方可以綁起來 。
turns out to be the exterior wall that part of it that remains of the coliseum , so they park themselves there and have a terrific lunch and have a spectacular view .	原來是羅馬競技場殘留下來的外牆 , 所以他們停在那 , 享受一頓很棒的午餐 , 和一個很壯觀的視野 。
at the end of lunch , they untie the anchor , they set off through the baths of caracalla and over the walls of the city and then an abandoned gatehouse and decide to take one more look at the pyramid of cestius , which has this lightning rod on top .	午餐時間結束時 , 他們解開了電梯 , 他們開了卡拉卡拉浴場 , 在城市的牆壁上 , 一間廢棄的大門 , 決定再看一眼cestius的金字塔 , 上面有一道閃電桿 。
unfortunately , that's a problem: they get a little too close , and when you're in a dirigible you have to be very careful about spikes .	不幸的是 , 這是個問題:它們靠得太近了 , 而當你在可怕的情況下 , 你必須非常小心尖刺 。
so that sort of brings her little story to a conclusion .	所以這就讓她的故事得出結論 。
marcello , on the other hand , is sort of a lazy guy , but he's not due at work until about noon .	另一方面 , 馬爾切洛有點懶惰 , 但他一直到中午才開始工作 。
so , the alarm goes off and it's five to 12 or so .	所以 , 警報響起了 , 大概是5到12左右 。
he gets up , leaps onto his scooter , races through the city past the church of santa maria della pace , down the alleys , through the streets that tourists may be wandering through , disturbing the quiet backstreet life of rome at every turn .	他站起來 , 跳上他的小摩托車 , 一路穿越城市 , 一路穿越聖母堂 , 一路穿過巷子 , 穿過街道 , 旅遊者可能在街上漫步 , 每一輪都讓羅馬的安靜背景生活感到不安 。
that speed with which he is moving , i hope i have suggested in this little image , which , again , can be turned around and read from both sides because there's text on the bottom and text on the top , one of which is upside down in this image .	他所移動的速度 , 我希望我所建議的這個小圖像 , 可以從兩邊轉過來 , 從側面讀 , 因為下面有文字 , 上面的文字 , 其中一個是倒過來的 。
so , he keeps on moving , approaching an unsuspecting waiter who is trying to deliver two plates of linguine in a delicate white wine clam sauce to diners who are sitting at a table just outside of a restaurant in the street .	所以 , 他繼續走下去 , 接近一名毫無疑問的服務生 , 他試圖在一個美麗的白葡萄酒蛤蛤醬中遞送兩塊語言原料 , 給坐在街上的餐廳外的餐桌上的人 。
waiter catches on , but it's too late .	服務生趕上了 , 但已經太遲了 。
and marcello keeps moving in his scooter .	馬爾切洛不斷地在他的摩托車上移動 。
everything he sees from this point on is slightly affected by the linguine , but keeps on moving because this guy's got a job to do .	從這個點開始 , 他所看到的一切都受到了語言的影響 , 但繼續向前走 , 因為這個人有工作要做 。
removes some scaffolding . one of the reasons rome remains the extraordinary place it is that because of scaffolding and the determination to maintain the fabric , it is a city that continues to grow and adapt to the needs of the particular time in which it finds itself , or we find it .	除去一些支架 , 羅馬之所以能維持非比尋常的地方 , 是因為鷹架和維持布料的決心 , 羅馬仍是這座城市持續成長和適應特定時間內自身的需求 , 或我們發現它 。
right through the piazza della rotonda , in front of the pantheon again wreaking havoc and finally getting to work .	透過廣場廣場德拉•羅頓達 , 在萬神廟的前面 , 再次令人毛骨悚然 , 終於開始工作 。
marcello , as it turns out , is the driver of the number 64 bus , and if you've been on the number 64 bus , you know that it's driven with the same kind of exuberance as marcello demonstrated on his scooter .	結果發現 , 馬爾切洛是64輛巴士的駕駛 , 如果你上過64輛巴士 , 你知道它的驅動力和馬爾切洛在他的摩托車上展示的一樣 。
and finally carletto . you see his apartment in the upper lefthand corner .	最後carletto.在左上角看到他的公寓.
he's looking at his table ; he's planning to propose this evening to his girlfriend of 40 years , and he wants it to be perfect .	他在看他的桌子 , 他打算在這個晚上向他的女朋友提議 , 已經40年了 , 他想要的是完美的 。
he's got candles out , he's got flowers in the middle and he's trying to figure out where to put the plates and the glasses .	他有蠟燭 , 中間有鮮花 , 他試圖找出把盤子和玻璃放在哪裡 。
but he's not happy ; something's wrong .	但他不開心 , 出了問題 。
the phone rings anyway , he's called to the palazzo .	反正電話響了 , 他被叫去palazo 。
he saunters he saunters at a good clip , but as compared to all the traveling we've just seen , he's sauntering .	他在一部好的短片中跑來跑去 , 但和我們剛才看到的旅行相比 , 他在晃動 。
everybody knows carletto , because he's in entertainment , actually ; he's in television .	大家都知道carleto , 因為他其實是在娛樂界 ; 他在電視上 。
he's actually in television repair , which is why people know him .	他其實是在電視節目修復中 , 這也是為什麼人們知道他 。
so they all have his number .	所以他們都有他的號碼 。
he arrives at the palazzo , arrives at the big front door .	他到達了palazo , 抵達了大門 。
enters the courtyard and talks to the custodian , who tells him that there's been a disaster in the palazzo ; nobody's tvs are working and there's a big soccer game coming up , and the crowd is getting a little restless and a little nervous .	進入庭院 , 和監護人聊天 , 他告訴他 , 在宮殿裡曾有一場災難 ; 沒有人在電視上工作 , 還有一場很大的足球比賽正在上演 , 群眾開始變得有點不安 , 有點緊張 。
he goes down to the basement and starts to check the wiring , and then gradually works his way up to the top of the building , apartment by apartment , checking every television , checking every connection , hoping to find out what this problem is .	他走到地下室 , 開始檢查電線 , 然後慢慢地 , 爬到建築物的頂端 , 公寓 , 檢查每一台電視 , 查看每一台電視 , 希望找出問題的所在 。
he works his way up , finally , the grand staircase and then a smaller staircase until he reaches the attic .	終於 , 他上了樓梯 , 然後又爬了一小段 , 直到他抵達閣樓 。
he opens the window of the attic , of course , and there's a tablecloth wrapped around the building's television antenna .	他打開閣樓的窗戶 , 當然 , 還有一塊桌布包在建築物的電視天線上 。
he removes it , the problems are solved , everybody in the palazzo is happy .	他移除它 , 問題解決了 , 所有在巴拉索的人都很開心 。
and of course , he also solves his own problem .	當然 , 他也解決了自己的問題 。
all he has to do now , with a perfect table , is wait for her to arrive .	他現在只要用一個完美的桌子 , 就等著她抵達 。
that was the first attempt , but it didn't seem substantial enough to convey whatever it was i wanted to convey about rome .	那是第一次嘗試 , 但似乎還不夠傳達我想要傳達的關於羅馬的任何事 。
so i thought , well , i'll just do piazzas , and i'll get inside and underneath and i'll show these things growing and show why they're shaped the way they are and so on .	所以我想 , 好吧 , 讓我來做個廣場 , 然後我會進到裡面 , 下面我會展示這些東西在成長 , 展示它們的形狀 , 等等 。
and then i thought , that's too complicated . no , i'll just take my favorite bits and pieces and i'll put them inside the pantheon but keep the scale , so you can see the top of sant'ivo and the pyramid of cestius and the tempietto of bramante all side by side in this amazing space .	然後我想 , 這太複雜了 。 不 , 我只會把我最喜歡的零件和碎片放到萬神廟裡 , 然後保持它的尺度 , 這樣你就可以看見聖誕節的頂端 , 和塞斯提烏斯的金字塔 , 和巴拉曼特的聖殿 , 一邊站在這個神奇的空間中 。
now that's one drawing , so i thought maybe it's time for piranesi to meet escher .	這是一幅畫 , 所以我想也許是時候讓皮拉尼認識escher了 。
you see that i'm beginning to really lose control here and also hope .	你可以看到我開始失去控制權 , 也失去了希望 。
there's a very thin blue line of exhaust that sort of runs through this thing that would be kind of the trail that holds it all together .	這裡有一條很薄的藍色線 , 有點累人 , 穿過了這條線 , 讓所有路線結合在一起 。
then i thought , " wait a minute , what am i doing ? "	然後我想: 「 等等 , 我在幹什麼 ? 」
a book is not only a neat way of collecting and storing information , it's a series of layers .	書不僅僅是用來收集和儲存資訊的好方法 , 它是一系列的層次 。
i mean , you always peel one layer off another ; we think of them as pages , doing it a certain way .	我的意思是 , 你總是把一層一層剝下來 , 我們認為它們是頁面 , 用一種特定的方式去做 。
but think of them as layers . i mean , rome is a place of layers horizontal layers , vertical layers and i thought , well just peeling off a page would allow me to if i got you thinking about it the right way would allow me to sort of show you the depth of layers .	但把它們想像成層次 。 我的意思是 , 羅馬是個層次地平行的層次 , 垂直的層次 , 我想 , 只要剝下一張頁面 , 就可以讓我用正確的方式來思考 , 可以讓我呈現出層次的深度 。
the stucco on the walls of most of the buildings in rome covers the scars ; the scars of centuries of change as these structures have been adapted rather than being torn down .	在羅馬大部分建築物的牆壁上 , 黏土覆蓋了這些傷疤 ; 當這些建築物被適應時 , 數世紀以來 , 改變的傷疤已經被摧毀了 。
if i do a foldout page on the lefthand side and let you just unfold it , you see behind it what i mean by scar tissue .	如果我在左手邊做一個摺疊頁 , 讓你把它展開 , 你就會看到我所說的疤痕組織 。
you can see that in 1635 , it became essential to make smaller windows because the bad guys were coming or whatever .	你可以看到在1635年 , 把小窗戶縮小是很重要的 , 因為壞傢伙要來了 , 等等 。
adaptations all get buried under the stucco .	所有的適應措施都埋藏在黏土裡 。
i could peel out a page of this palazzo to show you what's going on inside of it .	我可以把這張palazo的頁面給你們看看裡面發生了什麼事 。
but more importantly , i could also show you what it looks like at the corner of one of those magnificent buildings with all the massive stone blocks , or the fake stone blocks done with brick and stucco , which is more often the case .	但 , 更重要的是 , 我也可以給你看那些壯觀的建築物的角落 , 那些巨大的石塊 , 或用磚頭和黏土做成的假石塊 , 這種東西比較常見 。
so it becomes slightly threedimensional .	所以它變得有點立體 。
i could take you down one of those narrow little streets into one of those surprising piazzas by using a double gate fold double foldout page which , if you were like me reading a popup book as a child , you hopefully stick your head into .	我可以把你從那些狹窄的小街上帶到其中一個令人驚訝的廣場 , 藉由使用雙大門檻摺疊頁面 , 如果你像我一樣小時候在讀一本彈出書 , 你希望把你的頭伸進去 。
you wrap the pages around your head and are in that piazza for that brief period of time .	你把頭上的頁面包在那廣場上 , 就在那短暫的時間內 。
and i've really not done anything much more complicated than make foldout pages .	我其實沒有做過任何複雜的事情 , 比摺紙還要複雜許多 。
but then i thought , maybe i could be simpler here .	但我想 , 或許我可以簡單一點 。
let's look at the pantheon and the piazza della rotonda in front of it .	咱們來看看萬神廟 , 前面的羅頓達廣場 。
here's a book completely wide open .	這是一本完全開放的書 。
ok , if i don't open the book the whole way , if i just open it 90 degrees , we're looking down the front of the pantheon , and we're looking sort of at the top , more or less down on the square .	好 , 如果我不完全打開這本書 , 如果我把它打開90度 , 我們會從萬神廟的前面看下去 , 我們會從最上面看下去 , 或多或少在正方形上方 。
and if i turn the book the other way , we're looking across the square at the front of the pantheon .	如果我把書翻過來 , 我們就在萬神廟的正面 。
no foldouts , no tricks just a book that isn't open the whole way .	沒有摺疊 , 沒有任何秘訣 , 只是本書沒有完全打開 。
that seemed promising . i thought , maybe i'll do it inside and i can even combine the foldouts with the only partially opened book .	這似乎很有希望 。 我想 , 也許我會把它內部做出來 , 甚至可以把摺痕和唯一部分開放的書做結合 。
so we get inside the pantheon and it grows and so on and so forth .	所以 , 我們進入萬神廟 , 它會成長 , 諸如此類 。
and i thought , maybe i'm on the right track , but it sort of lost its human quality .	我心想 , 也許我在正確的軌道上 , 但它似乎失去了它的人性 。
so i went back to the notion of story , which is always a good thing to have if you're trying to get people to pay attention to a book and pick up information along the way .	所以 , 我回到故事的概念 , 總是有件好事 , 如果你想要讓人們注意看一本書 , 一路上接收信息 。
" pigeon's progress " struck me as a catchy title .	「 鴿子的進步 」 讓我大吃一驚 ,
if it was a homing pigeon , it would be called " homer's odyssey . "	如果那是一只寄宿鴿子 , 它會被稱為 「 荷馬的奧德西 」 。
but it was the journey of the . . .	但那是這趟旅程......
i mean , if a title works , use it . but it would be a journey that went through rome and showed all the things that i like about rome .	我的意思是 , 如果一個標題行得通 , 就用它吧 。 但那會是一個經過羅馬的旅程 , 展示我喜歡羅馬的所有東西 。
it's a pigeon sitting on top of a church .	一隻鴿子坐在教堂頂端 。
goes off during the day and does normal pigeon stuff . comes back , the whole place is covered with scaffolding and green netting and there's no way this pigeon can get home .	白天起床 , 做一般的鴿子事 。 回來後 , 整個地方都被支架和綠色網絡覆蓋著 , 沒有辦法讓這隻鴿子回家 。
so it's a homeless pigeon now and it's going to have to find another place to live , and that allows me to go through my catalog of favorite things , and we start with the tall ones and so on .	所以現在它是隻無家可歸的鴿子 , 它必須找到另一個居住地 , 這樣才能讓我通過我最喜歡的目錄 , 從最高的鴿子開始 , 以此類推 。
maybe it has to go back and live with family members ; that's not always a good thing , but it does sort of bring pigeons together again .	也許它必須回去和家人同住 ; 這不一定是好事 , 但它確實能讓鴿子再次聚在一起 。
and i thought , that's sort of interesting , but maybe there's a person who should be involved in this in some way .	我在想 , 這有點有趣 , 但也許有一個人應該用某種方式參與其中 。
so i kind of came up with this old guy who spends his life looking after sick pigeons .	所以我想出了一個老傢伙 , 他一輩子都在照顧生病的鴿子 。
he'll go anywhere to get them dangerous places and whatnot and they become really friends with this guy , and learn to do tricks for him and entertain him at lunchtime and stuff like that .	他會到哪裡去 , 把他們帶到危險的地方 , 什麼都沒有 , 他們和這個傢伙成了朋友 , 學會了為他製作戲法 , 在午餐時間娛樂他 , 諸如此類 。
there's a real bond that develops between this old man and these pigeons .	老人和這些鴿子之間有著真實的連結 。
but unfortunately he gets sick . he gets really sick at the end of the story .	但不幸的是 , 他生病了 。 他在故事結束時真的生病了 。
he's taught them to spell his name , which is aldo .	他教他們拼他的名字 , 艾爾多 。
they show up one day after three or four days of not seeing him he lives in this little garret and they spell his name and fly around .	他們在三、四天沒見到他之後 , 出現了一天 , 他住在這個小車庫裡 , 然後拼他的名字 , 飛來飛去 。
and he finally gets enough strength together to climb up the ladder onto the roof , and all the pigeons , a la red balloon , are there waiting for him and they carry him off over the walls of the city .	他終於有了足夠的力量 , 爬上梯子到屋頂上 , 所有鴿子 , 一頭紅色的氣球 , 都在等著他 , 然後他們把他帶到城市的牆上 。
and i forgot to mention this: whenever he lost a pigeon , he would take that pigeon out beyond the walls of the city .	我忘了提到:每當他丟了一隻鴿子時 , 他都會把那隻鴿子帶到城牆外 。
in the old roman custom , the dead were never buried within the walls .	在古羅馬時期 , 死者從來沒有埋藏在牆裡 。
and i thought that's a really cheery story .	我覺得這是個很棒的故事 。
. that's really going to go a long way .	這真的會走很長的路 。
so anyway , i went through . . . and again , if packaging doesn't work and if the stories aren't going anywhere , i just come up with titles and hope that a title will sort of kick me off in the right direction .	總之 , 我走過了...再說一次 , 如果包裝沒有用 , 如果故事沒有去任何地方 , 我只想出了頭銜 , 希望頭銜能把我踢向正確的方向 。
and sometimes it does focus me enough and i'll even do a title page .	有時它的確把我關注得夠專注 , 我甚至會寫一篇標題頁 。
so , these are all title pages that eventually led me to the solution i settled on , which is the story of a young woman who sends a message on a homing pigeon she lives outside the walls of the city of rome to someone in the city .	所以 , 這些頁面最終讓我找到了解決方案 , 也是一位年輕女子的故事 , 她把一封信寄給一位愛慕的鴿子 , 住在羅馬城外的一個人 , 和一個城市裡的另一個人 。
and the pigeon is flying down above the appian way here .	這隻鴿子正飛向阿巴尼亞的上方 。
you can see the tombs and pines and so on and so forth along the way .	你可以看到墳墓和松樹等等 , 一路上都是如此 。
if you see the red line , you are seeing the trail of the pigeon ; if you don't see the red line , you are the pigeon .	如果你看到紅色線 , 你看到鴿子的軌跡 , 如果你看不到紅色線 , 你就是鴿子 。
and it becomes necessary and possible , at this point , to try to convey what that sense would be like of flying over the city without actually moving .	此時此刻 , 它變得有必要性且可能性 , 試圖傳達那種感覺 , 那種感覺會像飛越城市而不動的感覺 。
past the pyramid of cestius these will seem very familiar to you , even if you haven't been to rome recently past the gatehouse .	過了cestius的金字塔 , 這些對你來說似乎很熟悉 , 即使你最近沒有去過羅馬 , 穿過大門 。
this is something that's a little bit unusual .	這有點不尋常 。
this pigeon does something that most homing pigeons do not do: it takes the scenic route , which was a device that i felt was necessary to actually extend this book beyond about four pages .	這隻鴿子做了一些最可愛的鴿子沒有做的事:它走了一條景色的路線 , 這是我覺得有必要把這本書延伸到四頁以外的地方 。
so , we circle around the coliseum , past the church of santa maria in cosmedin and the temple of hercules towards the river .	所以 , 我們繞著羅馬競技場繞圈 , 穿越了宇宙教堂的聖母堂 , 以及海克力士神廟 , 朝著河流前進 。
we almost collide with the cornice of the palazzo farnese designed by michelangelo , built of stone taken from the coliseum narrow escape .	我們差點撞上了由米開朗基羅所設計的palazofarnese的角落 , 建造的石頭是從羅馬競技場狹窄逃脫的 。
we swoop down over the campo de' fiori .	我們向下穿過柬埔寨的fiori 。
this is one of those things i show to my students because it's a complete bastardization a denial of any rules of perspective .	這是我給學生看的其中一件事 , 因為這完全是把任何觀點規則都拒絕了的 。
the only rule of perspective that i think matters is if it looks believable , you've succeeded .	我認為唯一重要的觀點規則是 , 如果它看起來可信 , 你成功了 。
but you try and figure out where the vanishing points meet here ; a couple are on mars and a couple of others in cremona .	但你試著找出消失點在哪裡 ; 這裡有幾個點在火星上 , 還有一些在克雷蒙那州 。
but into the piazza in front of santa maria della pace , where invariably a soccer game is going on , and we're hit by a soccer ball .	但在聖母堂前面的廣場中 , 在那裡 , 一個足球賽正在進行中 , 我們被足球撞擊 。
now this is a terrible illustration of being hit by a soccer ball .	這是被足球擊中的可怕例子 。
i have all the pieces: there's santa maria della pace , there's a soccer ball , there's a little bit of a bird's wing nothing's happening , so i had to rethink it .	我有所有的片段:聖誕老人瑪麗亞.戴拉.帕斯 , 有一個足球 , 一隻小鳥翅膀什麼都沒發生 , 所以我必須重新思考它 。
and if you do want to see santa maria della pace , these books are really flexible , incredibly interactive just turn it around and look at it the other way .	如果你想看到聖誕老人瑪麗亞.戴拉的步調 , 這些書非常靈活 , 非常互動 , 只要轉個頭 , 轉個頭 , 轉向另一邊 。
through the alley , we can see the impact is captured in the red line .	穿過巷子 , 我們可以看到紅色線上的影響力 。
and then bird manages to pull itself together past this medieval tower one of the few remaining medieval towers towards the church of sant'agnese and around the dome looking down into piazza navona which we've already mentioned and seen and flown over a couple of times ; there's the bernini statue of the four rivers and then past the wonderful borromini sant'ivo , stopping just long enough on the 26foot diameter oculus of the pantheon to catch our breath .	接著 , 鳥兒在中世紀的高塔上自行拉下了一座中世紀的塔 , 前往聖地阿根尼斯教堂的中世紀教堂 , 沿著穹頂向下看 , 向下看向廣場的納佛納粹 , 我們已經看到並飛過了好幾次 ; 伯尼的雕像有四條河流 , 經過美麗的布羅米諾瓦索 , 在26英尺深的天堂上停下來 。
and then we can swoop inside and around ; and because we're flying , we don't really have to worry about gravity at this particular moment in time , so this drawing can be oriented in any way on the page .	然後我們就可以在裡頭亂轉 , 因為我們在飛 , 我們不用費心在這個特別的時刻 , 重力 , 所以這幅圖可以在頁面上隨時隨地方位 。
we get a little exuberant as we pass gesu ; it's not surprising to sort of mimic the architecture in this way .	當我們通過gesu時 , 我們會變得有點自在 ; 用這種方式模仿建築物並不讓人意外 。
past the wonderful wall filled with the juxtaposition that i was talking about ; beautiful carvings set into the walls above the neon " ristorante " sign , and so on .	過了一道美麗的牆 , 充滿了我剛才提到的混音帶 ; 美麗的雕刻裝在 「 新生 」 上方的牆壁上 , 等等 。
and eventually , we arrive at the courtyard of the palazzo , which is our destination .	最後 , 我們到達了帕拉索的庭院 , 那是我們的目的地 。
straight up through the courtyard into a little window into the attic , where somebody is working at the drawing board .	直接穿過庭院 , 進入閣樓 , 有人在畫板上工作 。
he removes the message from the leg of the bird ; this is what it says .	他從這隻鳥的腿上移除了這條訊息 , 這是牠說的 。
as we look at the drawing board , we see what he's working on is , in fact , a map of the journey that the pigeon has just taken , and the red line extends through all the sights .	當我們看著畫板 , 我們會看到他正在畫的其實是鴿子剛完成的旅程的地圖 , 紅色的線會延伸到所有的畫面 。
and if you want the information , so that we complete this cycle of understanding , all you have to do is read these paragraphs .	如果你想要資訊 , 這樣我們就完成了理解的循環 , 你只需要讀這些段落 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝 。
mit researcher skylar tibbits works on selfassembly the idea that instead of building something , we can create materials that build themselves , much the way a strand of dna zips itself together . it's a big concept at early stages ; tibbits shows us three inthelab projects that hint at what a selfassembling future might look like .	麻省理工學院的研究者skylarlartibbits自行組合的概念是 , 與其建造一些東西 , 我們可以創造出一些材料 , 讓它們自行組合 , 就像一股dna短片一樣 。 這是個大概念 , 在初期的階段 。 tibbits告訴我們三個自組裝未來的樣子 。
skylar tibbits: can we make things that make themselves ?	skylarlartibbits:我們能創造出能自己的東西嗎 ?
today i'd like to show you the future of the way we make things .	今天 , 我想向各位展示我們製造東西的未來 。
i believe that soon our buildings and machines will be selfassembling , replicating and repairing themselves .	我相信 , 很快我們的建築物和機器就會自行組合、複製、修復它們自己 。
so i'm going to show you what i believe is the current state of manufacturing , and then compare that to some natural systems .	所以 , 我將向你們展示我相信是目前的製造業狀態 , 然後將它與一些自然的系統做比較 。
so in the current state of manufacturing , we have skyscrapers two and a half years [of assembly time] , 500 , 000 to a million parts , fairly complex , new , exciting technologies in steel , concrete , glass .	在目前的製造業狀態 , 我們有摩天大樓兩年半的時間 , 五十萬到一百萬個零件 , 相當複雜、令人興奮的新技術 , 鋼鐵、混凝土、玻璃 。
we have exciting machines that can take us into space five years [of assembly time] , 2 . 5 million parts .	我們有令人興奮的機器可以帶我們進入太空五年--250萬個零件 。
but on the other side , if you look at the natural systems , we have proteins that have two million types , can fold in 10 , 000 nanoseconds , or dna with three billion base pairs we can replicate in roughly an hour .	但在另一邊 , 如果你看看自然系統 , 我們有兩百萬種蛋白質 , 可以在一萬奈秒折疊 , 或是有三十億鹼基對的dna , 大約一小時就可以複製 。
so there's all of this complexity in our natural systems , but they're extremely efficient , far more efficient than anything we can build , far more complex than anything we can build .	所以 , 在我們的自然系統中有這麼多複雜性 , 但它們非常有效率 , 遠遠超過任何我們可以建造的東西 , 遠遠比任何我們可以建造的東西都還要更複雜 。
they're far more efficient in terms of energy .	在能源方面 , 它們的效率更高 。
they hardly ever make mistakes .	他們幾乎從來沒有犯錯 。
and they can repair themselves for longevity .	他們能修復自己長壽 。
so there's something super interesting about natural systems .	所以 , 自然系統有一點非常有趣的東西 。
and if we can translate that into our built environment , then there's some exciting potential for the way that we build things .	如果我們能把這些翻譯成我們建設的環境 , 那麼我們就有一些令人興奮的潛力來建造東西 。
and i think the key to that is selfassembly .	我認為關鍵在於自我組裝 。
so if we want to utilize selfassembly in our physical environment , i think there's four key factors .	所以如果我們想在實體環境中使用自我組裝 , 我認為有四個關鍵因素 。
the first is that we need to decode all of the complexity of what we want to build so our buildings and machines .	第一 , 我們需要解碼所有我們想要建造的東西的複雜性 , 像是我們的建築物和機器 。
and we need to decode that into simple sequences basically the dna of how our buildings work .	我們需要將它解碼成簡單的序列--基本上就是建築物的運作方式的dna 。
then we need programmable parts that can take that sequence and use that to fold up , or reconfigure .	接著 , 我們需要可編程的零件 , 可以使用該序列來折疊 , 或重新配置 。
we need some energy that's going to allow that to activate , allow our parts to be able to fold up from the program .	我們需要一些能激活的能量 , 讓我們的零件從程式中折疊起來 。
and we need some type of error correction redundancy to guarantee that we have successfully built what we want .	我們需要某種類型的矯正措施 , 以確保我們已經成功地建構出我們想要的 。
so i'm going to show you a number of projects that my colleagues and i at mit are working on to achieve this selfassembling future .	所以 , 我要給你們看一些計畫 , 是我麻省理工學院同事和麻省理工學院的一些計畫 , 正致力於達成這個自我組合的未來 。
the first two are the macrobot and decibot .	前兩種是巨型機器人和decibot 。
so these projects are largescale reconfigurable robots 8 ft . , 12 ft . long proteins .	這些專案是大規模的可重組的機器人-8英尺 , 12英尺長的蛋白質 。
they're embedded with mechanical electrical devices , sensors .	它們嵌入了機械電子裝置 , 感測器 。
you decode what you want to fold up into , into a sequence of angles so negative 120 , negative 120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , negative 120 something like that ; so a sequence of angles , or turns , and you send that sequence through the string .	你將你想摺的東西解碼成一串的角度120 , 負120 , 負120 , 0 , 120 , 負120 , 負120 , 像這樣 。 所以 , 一連串的角度 , 或轉彎 , 你將這序列發送到弦中 。
each unit takes its message so negative 120 it rotates to that , checks if it got there and then passes it to its neighbor .	每一個單位都帶著它的消息--負120--它會旋轉 , 檢查它是否到達那裡 , 然後把它傳遞給它的鄰居 。
so these are the brilliant scientists , engineers , designers that worked on this project .	這些傑出的科學家 , 工程師 , 設計師 , 在這個專案上工作 。
and i think it really brings to light: is this really scalable ?	我想這真的能帶來光明:這真的是可擴展的嗎 ?
i mean , thousands of dollars , lots of man hours made to make this eightfoot robot .	我的意思是 , 數千美元 , 很多男人小時 , 為了製作這八英尺高的機器人 。
can we really scale this up ? can we really embed robotics into every part ?	我們真的能把這個放大尺度嗎 ? 我們真的能把機器人裝進每個部位嗎 ?
the next one questions that and looks at passive nature , or passively trying to have reconfiguration programmability .	下一個問題是 , 看向被動的本質 , 或被動地試圖重新配置可編程 。
but it goes a step further , and it tries to have actual computation .	但它更進一步 , 它嘗試著實際的計算 。
it basically embeds the most fundamental building block of computing , the digital logic gate , directly into your parts .	基本上 , 它嵌入了最基礎的計算機積木 , 數位邏輯閘道 , 直接嵌入到你的零件中 。
so this is a nand gate .	這是nandgate.
you have one tetrahedron which is the gate that's going to do your computing , and you have two input tetrahedrons .	有一個四面體 , 就是將要做計算的大門 , 你有兩個輸入的四面體 。
one of them is the input from the user , as you're building your bricks .	其中一個是使用者的輸入 , 當你在建構你的磚塊時 。
the other one is from the previous brick that was placed .	另外一個是從先前的磚塊上取下來的 。
and then it gives you an output in 3d space .	然後它給你一個3d空間的輸出值 。
so what this means is that the user can start plugging in what they want the bricks to do .	這意味著 , 使用者可以開始把他們想要的磚頭加進去 。
it computes on what it was doing before and what you said you wanted it to do .	它計算出它之前的行為 , 以及你說你想要它做什麼 。
and now it starts moving in threedimensional space so up or down .	現在它開始在三維空間中移動 , 上下或下 。
so on the lefthand side , [1 , 1] input equals 0 output , which goes down .	在左手邊 , 輸入等於0的輸出值 , 下降了 。
on the righthand side , [0 , 0] input is a 1 output , which goes up .	在右手邊 , [0 , 0]輸入1輸出 , 上升了 。
and so what that really means is that our structures now contain the blueprints of what we want to build .	這真正的意思是 , 我們的結構現在包含了我們想要建造的藍圖 。
so they have all of the information embedded in them of what was constructed .	所以他們把所有的資訊嵌入在建構之中 。
so that means that we can have some form of selfreplication .	那就表示 , 我們可以有某種形式的自我複製 。
in this case i call it selfguided replication , because your structure contains the exact blueprints .	在這個案例中 , 我稱之為自我導向的複製 , 因為你的結構包含了精確的藍圖 。
if you have errors , you can replace a part .	如果你有錯誤 , 你可以取代一部分 。
all the local information is embedded to tell you how to fix it .	所有本地的資訊都嵌入在你身上 , 告訴你如何修復它 。
so you could have something that climbs along and reads it and can output at one to one .	所以你可以擁有爬上去閱讀的東西 , 並且在一對一輸出 。
it's directly embedded ; there's no external instructions .	它是直接嵌入的 , 沒有外部的指令 。
so the last project i'll show is called biased chains , and it's probably the most exciting example that we have right now of passive selfassembly systems .	所以 , 我將要展示的最後一個專案叫做偏頗鏈 , 它可能是目前被動自組裝系統中最令人興奮的例子 。
so it takes the reconfigurability and programmability and makes it a completely passive system .	所以需要可重組性和可編程性 , 讓它成為完全被動的系統 。
so basically you have a chain of elements .	基本上你有一連串的元素
each element is completely identical , and they're biased .	每一個元素都完全一模一樣 , 且它們有偏見 。
so each chain , or each element , wants to turn right or left .	所以 , 每條鏈 , 或每一個元素 , 都想要向右或向左或向左 。
so as you assemble the chain , you're basically programming it .	所以當你組合電鏈時 , 你基本上是在編程 。
you're telling each unit if it should turn right or left .	你在告訴每一個單位是否應該向左或向左轉 。
so when you shake the chain , it then folds up into any configuration that you've programmed in so in this case , a spiral , or in this case , two cubes next to each other .	所以當你搖晃鏈時 , 它會折疊成任何你編程的結構 , 在這個例子中 , 一個螺旋 , 或者 , 在這個例子中 , 兩個立方體旁邊 。
so you can basically program any threedimensional shape or onedimensional , twodimensional up into this chain completely passively .	所以基本上你可以設計任何立體形狀或單面的 , 二維的設計 , 完全被動地進入這條鏈 。
so what does this tell us about the future ?	所以 , 這告訴我們什麼關於未來 ?
i think that it's telling us that there's new possibilities for selfassembly , replication , repair in our physical structures , our buildings , machines .	我想這告訴我們 , 自我組裝、複製、修復的可能性 , 存在於我們的實體結構、建築物、機器 。
there's new programmability in these parts .	在這些地方有新的可編程性 。
and from that you have new possibilities for computing .	從那之後 , 你就有了新的計算可能性 。
we'll have spatial computing .	我們將有空間計算 。
imagine if our buildings , our bridges , machines , all of our bricks could actually compute .	想像一下 , 如果我們的建築物、橋樑、機器 , 我們所有的磚塊都可以計算 。
that's amazing parallel and distributed computing power , new design possibilities .	這是驚人的平行電腦運算能力 , 新的設計可能性 。
so it's exciting potential for this .	對於這點 , 這是很令人興奮的潛力 。
so i think these projects i've showed here are just a tiny step towards this future , if we implement these new technologies for a new selfassembling world .	所以 , 我認為我剛剛展示的這些專案 , 只是朝向未來的一小步 , 如果我們將這些新技術應用在一個新的自組裝世界中 。
we've been to the moon , we've mapped the continents , we've even been to the deepest point in the ocean twice . what's left for the next generation to explore ? biologist and explorer nathan wolfe suggests this answer: almost everything . and we can start , he says , with the world of the unseeably small .	我們去過月球 , 繪製了非洲大陸的地圖 , 甚至去了海底深處的兩次 。 下一代要探索什麼 ? 生物學家和探險家沃爾夫提出了這個答案:幾乎所有事情 。 我們都可以開始 , 他說 , 帶著那些看不見的小世界開始探索 。
biodiversity , exploration , microbiology , science	生物多樣性、探索、微生物學、科學 。
nathan wolfe: what's left to explore ?	內森•沃爾菲:還有什麼要去探索 ?
recently i visited beloit , wisconsin .	最近我去了威斯康辛州的貝洛伊特 。
and i was there to honor a great 20th century explorer , roy chapman andrews .	我在那裡榮耀一位偉大的二十世紀探險家 , roychapmanandrews 。
during his time at the american museum of natural history , andrews led a range of expeditions to uncharted regions , like here in the gobi desert .	安德魯斯在美國自然歷史博物館的時期 , 帶領了一系列的探險 , 前往未被發現的區域 , 就像這裡的戈壁沙漠 。
he was quite a figure .	他是個很棒的人物 。
he was later , it's said , the basis of the indiana jones character .	據說 , 他後來是印第安那瓊斯角色的基礎 。
and when i was in beloit , wisconsin , i gave a public lecture to a group of middle school students .	當我在威斯康辛州的貝洛特市時 , 我向一群中學學生演講 。
and i'm here to tell you , if there's anything more intimidating than talking here at ted , it'll be trying to hold the attention of a group of a thousand 12yearolds for a 45minute lecture .	我來這裡是要告訴各位 , 如果在ted演說中 , 有什麼比在ted演說更恐怖的話 , 它會試著把焦點放在一個45分鐘的演說中 , 一群12歲的孩子的注意力 。
at the end of the lecture they asked a number of questions , but there was one that's really stuck with me since then .	在演講結束後 , 他們問了幾個問題 , 但從那時開始 , 我一直被困在一個問題上 。
there was a young girl who stood up , and she asked the question: " where should we explore ? "	有一位年輕女孩站起來 , 她問: 「 我們該去哪裡探索 ? 」
i think there's a sense that many of us have that the great age of exploration on earth is over , that for the next generation they're going to have to go to outer space or the deepest oceans in order to find something significant to explore .	我認為 , 很多人有一種感覺 , 就是地球上最偉大的探索時代已經結束了 , 在下一代 , 他們得要去外太空或深海 , 才能找到重要的探索事物 。
but is that really the case ?	但真的是這樣嗎 ?
is there really nowhere significant for us to explore left here on earth ?	地球上真的沒有什麼值得我們去探索的重要性嗎 ?
it sort of made me think back to one of my favorite explorers in the history of biology .	這讓我回想起生物學史上我最喜歡的探險家之一 。
this is an explorer of the unseen world , martinus beijerinck .	這是未知世界的探險家 , 馬丁圖斯•貝耶金克 。
so beijerinck set out to discover the cause of tobacco mosaic disease .	所以 , beijerinck開始發現菸草鑲嵌疾病的起因 。
what he did is he took the infected juice from tobacco plants and he would filter it through smaller and smaller filters .	他的做法是從菸草植物中取出受感染的汁液 , 然後用越來越小的過濾器過濾 。
and he reached the point where he felt that there must be something out there that was smaller than the smallest forms of life that were ever known bacteria , at the time .	他到達了那個時候 , 他覺得一定有什麼東西比當時最小的生命形式還要小 , 更小的東西 。
he came up with a name for his mystery agent .	他為他的神秘經紀人出了個名字 。
he called it the virus latin for " poison . "	他稱之為 「 毒藥 」 的拉丁文
and in uncovering viruses , beijerinck really opened this entirely new world for us .	在揭露病毒的過程中 , beijerinck為我們開啟了一個全新的世界 。
we now know that viruses make up the majority of the genetic information on our planet , more than the genetic information of all other forms of life combined .	我們現在知道病毒組成地球上絕大部分的基因信息 , 比所有其他形式生命形式的基因信息加起來還多 。
and obviously there's been tremendous practical applications associated with this world things like the eradication of smallpox , the advent of a vaccine against cervical cancer , which we now know is mostly caused by human papillomavirus .	很明顯地 , 已經有很大的實際應用 , 和這個世界有關的應用 , 像是天花的消滅 , 預防子宮頸癌的出現 , 現在我們知道 , 人類乳突病毒大部分是由人類乳突病毒所引起的 。
and beijerinck's discovery , this was not something that occurred 500 years ago .	而beijerinck的發現 , 這不是500年前發生的事情 。
it was a little over 100 years ago that beijerinck discovered viruses .	大約一百多年前 , beijerinck發現了病毒 。
so basically we had automobiles , but we were unaware of the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	基本上 , 我們有汽車 , 但我們卻不知道組成地球上大部分基因信息的生命形式 。
we now have these amazing tools to allow us to explore the unseen world things like deep sequencing , which allow us to do much more than just skim the surface and look at individual genomes from a particular species , but to look at entire metagenomes , the communities of teeming microorganisms in , on and around us and to document all of the genetic information in these species .	我們現在有了這些驚人的工具 , 讓我們可以探索那些看不見的世界 , 像是深度定序 , 讓我們可以做得更好 , 不僅僅是表面上滑動 , 看看特定物種的個別基因組 , 還可以看完整的微生物群落 , 還有我們周遭的微生物群落 , 以及記錄所有這些物種的基因信息 。
we can apply these techniques to things from soil to skin and everything in between .	我們可以將這些技術應用在從土壤到皮膚之間的一切 。
in my organization we now do this on a regular basis to identify the causes of outbreaks that are unclear exactly what causes them .	在我的組織中 , 我們現在定期這麼做 , 來找出造成未知的爆發原因 , 正是造成這些疾病的原因 。
and just to give you a sense of how this works , imagine that we took a nasal swab from every single one of you .	為了讓各位了解這如何運作 , 想像一下 , 我們從你們每一個人身上取下了鼻子代謝 。
and this is something we commonly do to look for respiratory viruses like influenza .	我們通常會找呼吸道病毒 , 像是流行性感冒 。
the first thing we would see is a tremendous amount of genetic information .	首先我們會看到非常大量的基因信息 。
and if we started looking into that genetic information , we'd see a number of usual suspects out there of course , a lot of human genetic information , but also bacterial and viral information , mostly from things that are completely harmless within your nose .	如果我們開始研究基因信息 , 我們會看到一些常見的嫌疑犯 , 當然 , 很多人類的基因信息 , 但也有細菌和病毒的信息 , 大部分來自你鼻子裡完全沒有傷害的事物 。
but we'd also see something very , very surprising .	但我們也看到了一些非常非常令人驚訝的現象 。
as we started to look at this information , we would see that about 20 percent of the genetic information in your nose doesn't match anything that we've ever seen before no plant , animal , fungus , virus or bacteria .	當我們開始觀察這些資訊時 , 我們會發現 , 大約20%的鼻子裡的基因信息與我們從未見過的基因信息完全不符合 , 沒有植物、動物、真菌、病毒 , 或細菌的基因信息 。
basically we have no clue what this is .	基本上我們根本不知道這是什麼 。
and for the small group of us who actually study this kind of data , a few of us have actually begun to call this information biological dark matter .	對我們這些真正研究這類資料的小團體 , 我們當中有些人開始稱之為 「 生物暗物質 」 。
we know it's not anything that we've seen before ; it's sort of the equivalent of an uncharted continent right within our own genetic information .	我們知道它不是任何我們以前看過的東西 ; 它有點像是我們基因信息中未知的大陸 。
and there's a lot of it .	還有很多 。
if you think 20 percent of genetic information in your nose is a lot of biological dark matter , if we looked at your gut , up to 40 or 50 percent of that information is biological dark matter .	如果你認為你鼻子裡有20%的基因信息是很多生物暗物質 , 如果我們觀察你的腸子 , 高達40%或50%的信息是生物暗物質 。
and even in the relatively sterile blood , around one to two percent of this information is dark matter can't be classified , can't be typed or matched with anything we've seen before .	即使在相對比較無菌的血液中 , 大約有1%到2%的資訊是暗物質無法被分類 , 不能被輸入或和我們以前見過的任何東西配對 。
at first we thought that perhaps this was artifact .	一開始我們認為這可能是人造的 。
these deep sequencing tools are relatively new .	這些深度定序工具相對比較新 。
but as they become more and more accurate , we've determined that this information is a form of life , or at least some of it is a form of life .	但當它們變得愈來愈準確 , 我們已經確定 , 這些資訊是一種生命的一種形式 , 至少當中有一些是生命的一種形式 。
and while the hypotheses for explaining the existence of biological dark matter are really only in their infancy , there's a very , very exciting possibility that exists: that buried in this life , in this genetic information , are signatures of as of yet unidentified life .	雖然解釋生物暗物質存在的假設 , 其實只在它們的初始階段 , 有一個非常令人興奮的可能性存在:那埋藏在生命中 , 在這個基因信息中 , 是對尚未被發現的生命的特徵 。
that as we explore these strings of a's , t's , c's and g's , we may uncover a completely new class of life that , like beijerinck , will fundamentally change the way that we think about the nature of biology .	當我們探索一系列a、t、c、g的生命 , 我們可能會發現 , 像beijerinck , 將會從根本上改變我們對生物學本質的看法 。
that perhaps will allow us to identify the cause of a cancer that afflicts us or identify the source of an outbreak that we aren't familiar with or perhaps create a new tool in molecular biology .	這也許能讓我們找出折磨我們的癌症的原因 , 或找出我們不熟悉的爆發病源頭 , 或是創造出分子生物學的新工具 。
i'm pleased to announce that , along with colleagues at stanford and caltech and ucsf , we're currently starting an initiative to explore biological dark matter for the existence of new forms of life .	我很高興地宣布 , 與史丹福大學、加州理工學院和加州理工學院和加州理工學院的同事一起 , 我們正開始著手探索生物暗物質 , 來探索新生命的存在 。
a little over a hundred years ago , people were unaware of viruses , the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	大約一百多年前 , 人們意識到病毒 , 一種組成地球上大部分基因信息的生命形式 。
a hundred years from now , people may marvel that we were perhaps completely unaware of a new class of life that literally was right under our noses .	一百年後 , 人們也許會驚嘆我們可能完全沒意識到在我們眼前的新生命階級 。
it's true , we may have charted all the continents on the planet and we may have discovered all the mammals that are out there , but that doesn't mean that there's nothing left to explore on earth .	的確 , 我們可能已經繪製了地球上所有的大陸 , 我們可能已經發現了所有的哺乳類動物 , 但這並不表示地球上沒有其他可以探索的生物 。
beijerinck and his kind provide an important lesson for the next generation of explorers people like that young girl from beloit , wisconsin .	beijerinck和他的同伴為下一代的探險家提供了重要的教訓 , 像來自威斯康辛州的貝洛伊特市的年輕女孩 。
and i think if we phrase that lesson , it's something like this: don't assume that what we currently think is out there is the full story .	我想如果我們說出了這一課 , 它會變成這樣:不要認為我們目前所認為的全部就是故事 。
go after the dark matter in whatever field you choose to explore .	去追蹤你選擇去探索的任何領域中的暗物質 。
there are unknowns all around us and they're just waiting to be discovered .	我們身邊到處都有未知 , 他們只是等待被發現 。
legendary scientist david deutsch puts theoretical physics on the back burner to discuss a more urgent matter: the survival of our species . the first step toward solving global warming , he says , is to admit that we have a problem .	傳奇人物科學家大衛•迪希在研究更迫切的問題時 , 將理論物理學放在背後 , 來討論一個更迫切的問題:我們物種的生存 。 解決全球暖化的第一步 , 他說 , 是承認我們有問題 。
climate change , cosmos , culture , environment , global issues , physics , science , technology , universe	氣候變遷、宇宙、文化、環境、全球議題、物理、科學、科技、宇宙 。
david deutsch on our place in the cosmos	宇宙中的大衛•迪希在我們所在之處 。
we've been told to go out on a limb and say something surprising .	我們被告知要走出肢體 , 說出令人驚訝的話 。
so i'll try and do that , but i want to start with two things that everyone already knows .	我會試著這麼做 , 但我想從大家都知道的兩件事開始 。
and the first one , in fact , is something that has been known for most of recorded history .	首先 , 事實上 , 歷史上大部分的記錄都以此聞名 。
and that is that the planet earth , or the solar system , or our environment or whatever , is uniquely suited to sustain our evolution or creation , as it used to be thought and our present existence , and most important , our future survival .	那就是地球 , 或太陽系 , 或環境等等 , 都是獨一無二的 , 可以維持我們的演化或創造 , 就像以前的思想和現在的存在 , 最重要的是 , 我們的未來的生存 。
nowadays this idea has a dramatic name: spaceship earth .	現今這個想法有個很戲劇性的名字:太空船地球 。
and the idea there is that outside the spaceship , the universe is implacably hostile , and inside is all we have , all we depend on .	這裡的概念是 , 在太空船之外 , 宇宙是有著不可思議的 , 而內在的一切 , 是我們賴以生存的 。
and we only get the one chance: if we mess up our spaceship , we've got nowhere else to go .	我們只有一個機會:如果我們搞砸了我們的太空船 , 我們就沒有其他地方可以去 。
now , the second thing that everyone already knows is that contrary to what was believed for most of human history , human beings are not , in fact , the hub of existence .	現在 , 第二件大家都知道的事 , 與我們所相信的人類歷史大多相反 , 事實上 , 人類並不是存在的中心 。
as stephen hawking famously said , we're just a chemical scum on the surface of a typical planet that's in orbit around a typical star , which is on the outskirts of a typical galaxy , and so on .	正如斯蒂芬霍金說的 , 我們只是一個典型的星球表面的化學污垢 , 繞著一個典型的恆星運行 , 就是在一個典型的星系的郊區 , 等等 。
now the first of those two things that everyone knows is kind of saying that we're at a very untypical place , uniquely suited and so on , and the second one is saying that we're at a typical place .	大家都知道的前兩件事 , 都有點像是在說我們在一個非常不典型的地方 , 獨一無二的服裝等等 , 第二件事是說我們在一個典型的地方 。
and especially if you regard these two as deep truths to live by and to inform your life decisions , then they seem a little bit to conflict with each other .	尤其是 , 如果你把這兩種說法當作深切的真相 , 來做你的人生決策 , 那麼它們似乎會和彼此產生衝突 。
but that doesn't prevent them from both being completely false .	但這並不能完全阻止兩者的錯誤 。
and they are . so let me start with the second one: typical . well is this a typical place ? well , let's look around , you know , and look in a random direction , and we see a wall , and chemical scum and that's not typical of the universe at all .	它們是 。 所以 , 讓我從第二個開始:典型的 。 這是典型的地方嗎 ? 嗯 , 讓我們環顧四周 , 環顧四周 , 看向一個隨機的方向 , 我們看到一面牆 , 化學污垢--而這一點也不典型的宇宙 。
all you've got to do is go a few hundred miles in that same direction and look back , and you won't see any walls or chemical scum at all all you see is a blue planet . and if you go further than that , you'll see the sun , the solar system , and the stars and so on .	你所要做的 , 就是朝著同一方向走幾百英里 , 然後回頭看 , 你不會看到任何牆或化學污垢 , 你只能看到一個藍色的星球 。 如果你更進一步去看 , 你會看到太陽 , 太陽系 , 恆星等等 。
but that's still not typical of the universe , because stars come in galaxies .	但這仍然不是典型的宇宙 , 因為星星是從星系來的 。
and most places in the universe , a typical place in the universe , is nowhere near any galaxies .	宇宙中的大部分地方 , 一個典型的宇宙空間 , 都沒有任何一個星系 。
so let's go out further , till we're outside the galaxy , and look back , and yeah , there's the huge galaxy with spiral arms laid out in front of us .	讓我們再進一步 , 直到我們在銀河之外 , 再回頭看 , 沒錯 , 巨大的星系裡有螺旋手臂 , 在我們面前擺著 。
and at this point we've come 100 , 000 light years from here .	此時此刻 , 我們已經有十萬光年了 。
but we're still nowhere near a typical place in the universe .	但我們仍然離宇宙中典型的地方很近 。
to get to a typical place , you've got to go 1 , 000 times as far as that into intergalactic space .	要到達一個典型的地點 , 你必須走一千倍到達星系間的空間 。
and so what does that look like ? typical .	那會是什麼樣子 ? 典型的 。
what does a typical place in the universe look like ?	宇宙中典型的位置長什麼樣子 ?
well , at enormous expense , ted has arranged a highresolution immersion virtual reality rendering of intergalactic space the view from intergalactic space .	在昂貴的代價之下 , ted安排了高解析度的虛擬實境 , 呈現了星系間空間的外觀 , 從星系間空間的角度 。
so can we have the lights off , please , so we can see it ?	請把燈關掉 , 這樣我們就能看到了嗎 ?
well , not quite , not quite perfect you see , in intergalactic space intergalactic space is completely dark , pitch dark .	嗯 , 並不是很完美 , 在星系間的空間中 , 星系間的空間是完全漆黑的 , 漆黑的 。
it's so dark that if you were to be looking at the nearest star to you , and that star were to explode as a supernova , and you were to be staring directly at it at the moment when its light reached you , you still wouldn't be able to see even a glimmer .	太暗了 , 如果你正看著離你最近的恆星 , 那顆恆星是一顆超新星爆炸 , 而你正目瞪著它 , 當它的光射向你時 , 你仍無法看見一顆閃光 。
that's how big and how dark the universe is .	宇宙就是這麼大、黑暗 。
and that's despite the fact that a supernova is so bright , so brilliant an event , that it would kill you stone dead at a range of several light years .	儘管超新星是如此的亮 , 非常出色 , 讓你在幾光年內死去 。
and yet from intergalactic space , it's so far away you wouldn't even see it .	然而 , 從星系間的空間 , 它離你非常遠 , 你甚至看不到 。
it's also very cold out there less than three degrees above absolute zero .	外面的溫度也很低 , 溫度比絕對零度還低三度 。
and it's very empty . the vacuum there is one million times less dense than the highest vacuum that our best technology on earth can currently create . so that's how different a typical place is from this place .	空無一物 。 真空中有一百萬倍的密度 , 比目前地球上最好的科技所能創造出的最高的真空量還少一百萬倍 。 這就是典型的這個地方的不同之處 。
and that is how untypical this place is .	這就是這個地方的典型 。
so can we have the lights back on please ? thank you .	請把燈光打開 ? 謝謝 。
now how do we know about an environment that's so far away , and so different , and so alien , from anything we're used to ?	我們如何知道一個如此遙遠的環境 , 和我們熟悉的一切都如此不同 , 如此陌生 。
well , the earth our environment , in the form of us is creating knowledge .	地球的環境 , 以我們的形式 , 正在創造知識 。
well , what does that mean ? well , look out even further than we've just been i mean from here , with a telescope and you'll see things that look like stars .	這是什麼意思呢 ? 嗯 , 再往外看 , 比我剛才所說的還要遠--從這裡 , 用望遠鏡--你會看到一些看起來像恆星的東西 。
they're called " quasars . " quasars originally meant quasistellar object .	它們叫做 「 quasars 」 , 原本是 「 量子星 」 。
which means things that look a bit like stars . but they're not stars .	這意味著有些東西看起來有點像星星 , 但不是星星 。
and we know what they are . billions of years ago , and billions of light years away , the material at the center of a galaxy collapsed towards a supermassive black hole .	我們知道它們是什麼 。 幾十億年前 , 在數十億光年之外 , 銀河系中心的物質向一個超大質量的黑洞倒下 。
and then intense magnetic fields directed some of the energy of that gravitational collapse . and some of the matter , back out in the form of tremendous jets which illuminated lobes with the brilliance of i think it's a trillion suns .	接著 , 強烈的磁場引導了那重力崩塌的一些能量 。 一些物質 , 以巨大的噴射機形式 , 以露天的亮度 , 照亮了葉片 , 我認為它是一兆個太陽 。
now , the physics of the human brain could hardly be more unlike the physics of such a jet .	現今 , 人類大腦的物理學可能和這種噴射機的物理學差不多 。
we couldn't survive for an instant in it . language breaks down when trying to describe what it would be like in one of those jets .	我們無法存活一瞬間 。 當這些噴射流中 , 語言會分解 。
it would be a bit like experiencing a supernova explosion , but at pointblank range and for millions of years at a time .	這有點像經歷超級新星爆炸 , 但在時空有數百萬年的時間 。
and yet , that jet happened in precisely such a way that billions of years later , on the other side of the universe , some bit of chemical scum could accurately describe , and model , and predict , and explain , above all there's your reference what was happening there , in reality .	然而 , 這種噴射流發生得非常精確 , 幾十億年後 , 在宇宙的另一端 , 一些化學污垢可以準確地描述 , 模型 , 預測 , 並解釋 , 最重要的是 , 你在宇宙中所發生的一切 。
the one physical system , the brain , contains an accurate working model of the other the quasar .	一個物理系統 , 大腦 , 包含了另一個四軸的準確工作模型 。
not just a superficial image of it , though it contains that as well , but an explanatory model , embodying the same mathematical relationships and the same causal structure .	不僅僅是它的表面形象 , 還包含了它 , 還包含了解釋性的模型 , 體現了相同的數學關係 , 以及相同的因果結構 。
now that is knowledge . and if that weren't amazing enough , the faithfulness with which the one structure resembles the other is increasing with time . that is the growth of knowledge .	那就是知識 。 如果這還不夠驚人 , 相似的結構 , 與另一種結構相似的信念會隨著時間逐漸增加 。 那就是知識的增長 。
so , the laws of physics have this special property .	所以 , 物理定律有這樣的特性 。
that physical objects , as unlike each other as they could possibly be , can nevertheless embody the same mathematical and causal structure and to do it more and more so over time .	實體物體 , 不像彼此一樣 , 儘管它們可能是 , 仍然可以體現相同的數學和因果結構 , 隨著時間越來越長 。
so we are a chemical scum that is different . this chemical scum has universality .	所以我們是一個不一樣的化學污垢 。 這個化學污垢有普遍性的 。
its structure contains , with everincreasing precision , the structure of everything . this place , and not other places in the universe , is a hub which contains within itself the structural and causal essence of the whole of the rest of physical reality . and so , far from being insignificant , the fact that the laws of physics allow this , or even mandate that this can happen , is one of the most important things about the physical world .	它的結構包含了永無止境的精準度 , 所有事物的結構 。 這個地方 , 而不是宇宙中的其他地方 , 是一個中心 , 它本身包含著整個物理現實的結構和因果的本質 。 所以 , 遠遠不被忽略 , 物理定律允許 , 甚至允許它發生 , 成為物理世界中最重要的事之一 。
now how does the solar system and our environment , in the form of us acquire this special relationship with the rest of the universe ?	那麼 , 太陽系和環境 , 以我們的形式 , 如何才能取得與宇宙其他部分的這種特殊關係 ?
well , one thing that's true about stephen hawking's remark i mean , it is true , but it's the wrong emphasis . one thing that's true about it is that it doesn't do it with any special physics . there's no special dispensation , no miracles involved . it does it simply with three things that we have here in abundance .	史蒂芬霍金的評論中有一點是正確的 , 但它的重點是錯的 , 但它是錯的強調 。 其中一個事實是 , 它沒有用任何特殊的物理學 。 沒有特殊的放寬 , 沒有奇蹟 。 它只用了三種我們在這富足中所擁有的 。
one of them is matter , because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing . information processing is computation , computation requires a computer there's no known way of making a computer without matter .	其中一個是很重要的 , 因為知識的增長是資訊處理的一種形式 。 資訊處理是計算 , 計算需要一台電腦 , 沒有物質的就無法製造出電腦 。
we also need energy to make the computer , and most important , to make the media in effect onto which we record the knowledge that we discover .	我們也需要能量來製造電腦 , 最重要的是要讓媒體能夠有效地記錄我們所發現的知識 。
and then thirdly , less tangible , but just as essential for the openended creation of knowledge , of explanations , is evidence .	第三點 , 較不明顯 , 但對於開放式知識和解釋的重要性 , 就是證據 。
now , our environment is inundated with evidence .	我們的環境被證據淹沒 。
we happen to get round to testing , let's say , newton's law of gravity about 300 years ago .	我們剛好在300年前開始測試 , 舉個例子 , 牛頓的重力定律 。
but the evidence that we used to do that was falling down on every square meter of the earth for billions of years before that , and will continue to fall on for billions of years afterwards . and the same is true for all the other sciences .	但我們過去所做的證據 , 在那之前數十億年前 , 都在地球上落下 , 之後的數十億年還會持續下去 。 其他的科學也是如此 。
as far as we know , evidence to discover the most fundamental truths of all the sciences is here just for the taking on our planet .	就我們所知 , 去發現所有科學中最基本的真相 , 就在我們的星球上 。
our location is saturated with evidence , and also with matter and energy .	我們的地點充滿了證據 , 還有物質和能量 。
out in intergalactic space , those three prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge are at their lowest possible supply .	在星系間的空間中 , 創造開放式知識的這三個前提條件是最低可能的 。
as i said , it's empty ; it's cold ; and it's dark out there . or is it ?	正如我所說的 , 它是空的 ; 它是寒冷的 ; 那裡是黑暗的 。 還是 ?
now actually , that's just another parochial misconception .	事實上 , 這只是另外一個狹義的誤解 。
because imagine a cube out there in intergalactic space , the same size as our home , the solar system . now that cube is very empty by human standards , but that still means that it contains over a million tons of matter .	因為想像一個立方體存在於星系間的空間 , 就像我們家的大小 , 太陽系 。 現在 , 立方體非常空 , 依然存在著超過一百萬噸的物質 。
and a million tons is enough to make , say , a selfcontained space station , on which there's a colony of scientists that are devoted to creating an openended stream of knowledge , and so on .	一百萬噸足夠製造一個自給自足的太空站 , 那裡有一群科學家致力於創造開放式的知識流 , 諸如此類的 。
now , it's way beyond present technology to even gather the hydrogen from intergalactic space and form it into other elements and so on .	現在 , 要把現有的技術從星系間空間的氫氣 , 轉換成其他元素等等 , 就要用現有的技術了 。
but the thing is , in a comprehensible universe , if something isn't forbidden by the laws of physics , then what could possibly prevent us from doing it , other than knowing how ?	但 , 問題是 , 在一個完全無法理解的宇宙中 , 如果某樣東西不被物理定律禁止 , 那麼 , 除了知道如何 , 還能防止我們這麼做 , 還有什麼能防止我們這麼做 ?
in other words , it's a matter of knowledge , not resources .	換句話說 , 這是關於知識的問題 , 而非資源的問題 。
and the same well , if we could do that we'd automatically have an energy supply , because the transmutation would be a fusion reactor and evidence ?	同樣的 , 如果我們可以自動使用能源供應 , 因為轉變會是核融合反應爐和證據 ?
well , again , it's dark out there to human senses . but all you've got to do is take a telescope , even one of presentday design , look out and you'll see the same galaxies as we do from here .	再說一次 , 人類的感官是黑暗的 。 但是你只需要拿一個望遠鏡 , 甚至是現在的一個設計 , 往外看 , 然後你會看到跟我們這裡一樣的銀河系 。
and with a more powerful telescope , you'll be able to see stars , and planets .	利用一個更強大的望遠鏡 , 你可以看見恆星和行星 。
in those galaxies , you'll be able to do astrophysics , and learn the laws of physics .	在這些星系中 , 你可以做天體物理學 , 並且學物理定律 。
and locally there you could build particle accelerators , and learn elementary particle physics , and chemistry , and so on .	在那裡 , 你可以建造粒子加速器 , 學習基本粒子物理學 , 化學等等 。
probably the hardest science to do would be biology field trips because it would take several hundred million years to get to the nearest lifebearing planet and back .	可能最難做科學研究會是生物學的實地考察 , 因為要花上數億年才能回到最近的有生命的星球 。
but i have to tell you and sorry , richard but i never did like biology field trips much , and i think we can just about make do with one every few hundred million years .	但是我必須告訴你--對不起 , 理查--但我從來沒有那麼喜歡生物學實地考察--我想我們每隔幾億年就可以完成一次.
so in fact , intergalactic space does contain all the prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge . any such cube , anywhere in the universe , could become the same kind of hub that we are , if the knowledge of how to do so were present there .	所以事實上 , 星系間的空間確實包含了開放式知識的所有前提條件 。 任何一個立方體 , 任何在宇宙的任何一個角落 , 都可以變成我們這樣的一個中心 , 如果知識的確存在的話 。
so we're not in a uniquely hospitable place .	所以 , 我們並不是唯一適宜居住的地方 。
if intergalactic space is capable of creating an openended stream of explanations , then so is almost every other environment . so is the earth . so is a polluted earth .	如果星系間的空間有能力創造出開放式的解釋 , 那麼幾乎所有其他的環境都一樣 。 地球就是污染的地球 。
and the limiting factor , there and here , is not resources , because they're plentiful , but knowledge , which is scarce .	限制性的因素 , 在這裡 , 不是資源 , 因為資源豐富 , 但知識 , 很稀少 。
now this cosmic knowledgebased view may and i think ought to make us feel very special . but it should also make us feel vulnerable , because it means that without the specific knowledge that's needed to survive the ongoing challenges of the universe , we won't survive them .	這種以宇宙知識為基礎的觀點 , 或許我認為應該要讓我們感到非常特殊 。 但也應該要讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為 , 若沒有具體的知識 , 能夠生存宇宙的挑戰 , 我們就無法生存下去 。
all it takes is for a supernova to go off a few light years away , and we'll all be dead !	只要一顆超級新星在幾光年之外 , 我們都會死了 !
martin rees has recently written a book about our vulnerability to all sorts of things , from astrophysics , to scientific experiments gone wrong , and most importantly to terrorism with weapons of mass destruction .	最近martinrees寫了一本書 , 內容是關於我們對各種事物的脆弱性 , 從天體物理學 , 到科學實驗都出了差錯 , 最重要的是 , 恐怖主義有大規模毀滅性武器 。
and he thinks that civilization has only a 50 percent chance of surviving this century .	他認為人類文明只有50%的機率能存活這個世紀 。
i think he's going to talk about that later in the conference .	我想他晚些時候會在研討會上談到這一點 。
now i don't think that probability is the right category to discuss this issue in .	我不認為這可能性是正確的分類來討論這個議題 。
but i do agree with him about this . we can survive , and we can fail to survive .	但我同意他的看法 , 我們可以生存下來 , 無法生存下來 。
but it depends not on chance , but on whether we create the relevant knowledge in time .	但這不取決於機率 , 而是我們是否時間創造出相關的知識 。
the danger is not at all unprecedented . species go extinct all the time .	危險完全不是前所未見的 。 物種總是會絕種 。
civilizations end . the overwhelming majority of all species and all civilizations that have ever existed are now history .	文明的結局 。 絕大多數的物種和文明 , 都是歷史上的歷史 。
and if we want to be the exception to that , then logically our only hope is to make use of the one feature that distinguishes our species , and our civilization , from all the others namely , our special relationship with the laws of physics , our ability to create new explanations , new knowledge to be a hub of existence .	如果我們想要成為例外的話 , 那麼邏輯上我們唯一的希望就是利用這個特徵來區別我們的物種 , 和我們的文明 , 和其他所有其他的特徵 , 即 , 我們與物理定律的特殊關係 , 我們創造新解釋的能力 , 新知識成為存在的中心 。
so let me now apply this to a current controversy , not because i want to advocate any particular solution , but just to illustrate the kind of thing i mean .	所以 , 讓我把這個應用到目前的爭議上 , 不是因為我想要提倡任何特定的解決方案 , 來說明我的意思 。
and the controversy is global warming .	爭議是全球暖化 。
now , i'm a physicist , but i'm not the right kind of physicist . in regard to global warming , i'm just a layman . and the rational thing for a layman to do is to take seriously the prevailing scientific theory . and according to that theory , it's already too late to avoid a disaster .	現在 , 我是物理學家 , 但我不是那種對的物理學家 。 關於全球暖化 , 我只是一個層級人 。 做一個層級人 , 理性的做法是認真看待普遍的科學理論 。 根據這個理論 , 已經太遲了 , 無法避免災難 。
because if it's true that our best option at the moment is to prevent co2 emissions with something like the kyoto protocol , with its constraints on economic activity and its enormous cost of hundreds of billions of dollars or whatever it is , then that is already a disaster by any reasonable measure .	因為 , 如果我們目前最好的選擇就是用京都議定書來防止二氧化碳排放 , 因為它的經濟活動限制了它的經濟活動 , 且它的成本是數千億美元以上 , 不論它是什麼 , 那就已經是一場災難了 。
and the actions that are advocated are not even purported to solve the problem , merely to postpone it by a little . so it's already too late to avoid it , and it probably has been too late to avoid it ever since before anyone realized the danger .	倡議的行動甚至都不是為了解決問題 , 只是稍微拖延一下 , 所以已經太遲了 , 無法避免它 , 自從任何人意識到這危險之前 , 已經太遲了 。
it was probably already too late in the 1970s , when the best available scientific theory was telling us that industrial emissions were about to precipitate a new ice age in which billions would die .	在1970年代可能已經太晚了 , 當時最好的科學理論告訴我們 , 工業排放量即將爆發一個新的冰河時期 , 數十億人將會死亡 。
now the lesson of that seems clear to me , and i don't know why it isn't informing public debate .	現在我學到的教訓似乎很清楚 , 我也不知道為什麼這不是在公開辯論 。
it is that we can't always know . when we know of an impending disaster , and how to solve it at a cost less than the cost of the disaster itself , then there's not going to be much argument , really .	就是我們不能總是知道 。 當我們知道即將發生的災難時 , 以及如何以比災難本身的代價來解決問題 , 那麼其實根本沒有什麼爭論 。
but no precautions , and no precautionary principle , can avoid problems that we do not yet foresee .	但沒有預防措施 , 沒有預防原則 , 就能避免我們還沒預料到的問題 。
hence , we need a stance of problemfixing , not just problemavoidance .	因此 , 我們需要一個解決問題的平衡點 , 而不只是問題解決 。
and it's true that an ounce of prevention equals a pound of cure , but that's only if we know what to prevent .	的確 , 一盎司的預防等於一盎司的解藥 , 但那只是我們知道預防什麼 。
if you've been punched on the nose , then the science of medicine does not consist of teaching you how to avoid punches .	如果你被鼻子打了 , 那麼醫學的科學並不會教你如何避免穿刺 。
if medical science stopped seeking cures and concentrated on prevention only , then it would achieve very little of either .	如果醫學界不只尋求治療和專注在預防上 , 那麼它也幾乎無法達成 。
the world is buzzing at the moment with plans to force reductions in gas emissions at all costs .	目前世界正在興起 , 計劃著要把氣體排放減量的方案 , 不計代價 。
it ought to be buzzing with plans to reduce the temperature , and with plans to live at the higher temperature and not at all costs , but efficiently and cheaply . and some such plans exist , things like swarms of mirrors in space to deflect the sunlight away , and encouraging aquatic organisms to eat more carbon dioxide .	它應該要以計劃來降低溫度 , 並計劃在高溫下生存 , 不論花什麼成本 , 都要很有效率且便宜 。 有些規劃存在 , 例如在太空中鏡子之類的 , 來把陽光給偏移 , 並鼓勵水生生物吃更多二氧化碳 。
at the moment , these things are fringe research .	目前 , 這些東西正在進行研究 。
they're not central to the human effort to face this problem , or problems in general .	他們不是人類努力解決這個問題的核心 , 或一般的問題 。
and with problems that we are not aware of yet , the ability to put right not the sheer good luck of avoiding indefinitely is our only hope , not just of solving problems , but of survival .	在我們還沒有意識到的問題之中 , 若要正確地解決問題的能力 , 不是無限期的避免好運 , 是我們唯一的希望 , 不只是解決問題 , 還能生存下來 。
so take two stone tablets , and carve on them .	拿兩塊石頭平板為例 , 刻在上面 。
on one of them , carve: " problems are soluble . "	其中一個刻畫: 「 問題是可以解決的 。 」
and on the other one carve: " problems are inevitable . "	另外一幅是: 「 問題是不可避免的 。 」
how can a struggling country break out of poverty if it's trapped in a system of bad rules ? economist paul romer unveils a bold idea: " charter cities , " cityscale administrative zones governed by a coalition of nations .	一個掙扎的國家要如何脫離貧窮 , 如果它被困在一個不好的體制中 ? 經濟學家保羅默揭開了一個大膽的想法: 「 特區城市 」 , 城市規模管理區 , 由一個國家的聯合國統治 。
business , culture , economics , global issues , politics	企業、文化、經濟、全球議題、政治 。
paul romer's radical idea: charter cities	保羅•羅默的極端想法:特許城市 。
take a look at this picture .	看看這張照片 。
it poses a very fascinating puzzle for us .	對我們來說 , 這是個很棒的謎題 。
these african students are doing their homework under streetlights at the airport in the capital city because they don't have any electricity at home .	這些非洲學生在首都機場的街燈下做功課 , 因為他們家裡沒有電 。
now , i haven't met these particular students , but i've met students like them .	我還沒見過這些特別的學生 , 但我見過像他們這樣的學生 。
let's just pick one for example , the one in the green shirt .	舉個例子 , 綠色上衣的那個 。
let's give him a name , too: nelson .	我們也給他一個名字 , 尼爾森 。
i'll bet nelson has a cellphone .	我敢打賭nelson有手機 。
so here is the puzzle .	這是謎題 。
why is it that nelson has access to a cuttingedge technology , like the cellphone , but doesn't have access to a 100yearold technology for generating electric light in the home ?	為什麼尼爾森有像手機一樣先進的科技 , 但沒有一百年前的科技 , 可以在家裡產生電燈 ?
now , in a word , the answer is " rules . "	簡單來說 , 答案是 「 規則 」 。
bad rules can prevent the kind of winwin solution that's available when people can bring new technologies in and make them available to someone like nelson .	不良的規則可以預防類似雙贏的解決方案 , 只要有人能把新技術帶進來 , 讓像尼爾森這樣的人都能使用 。
what kinds of rules ?	什麼規則 ?
the electric company in this nation operates under a rule , which says that it has to sell electricity at a very low , subsidized price in fact , a price that is so low it loses money on every unit that it sells .	在這個國家的電力公司遵守一條規則 , 電力公司必須以非常低的補助金來銷售電費 , 事實上 , 電價非常低 , 每賣一個單位都會損失金錢 。
so it has neither the resources , nor the incentives , to hook up many other users .	所以它既沒有資源 , 也沒有獎勵措施 , 可以吸引許多用戶 。
the president wanted to change this rule .	總統想要改變這個規則 。
he's seen that it's possible to have a different set of rules , rules where businesses earn a small profit , so they have an incentive to sign up more customers .	他看到 , 有可能有不同的規則 , 規則是企業賺取小額利潤 , 所以他們有動機要簽名更多客戶 。
that's the kind of rules that the cellphone company that nelson purchases his telephony from operates under .	這是nelson買下電信公司的一種規則 , 下面的電信業者就是這樣 。
the president has seen how those rules worked well .	總統知道這些規則是如何運作的 。
so he tried to change the rules for pricing on electricity , but ran into a firestorm of protest from businesses and consumers who wanted to preserve the existing subsidized rates .	所以他嘗試改變電力價格的規則 , 但他碰上了一場來自企業和消費者的抗議 , 他們想保存現有的補助率 。
so he was stuck with rules that prevented him from letting the winwin solution help his country .	所以他被困在規則之中 , 以避免他讓雙贏解決方案幫助他的國家 。
and nelson is stuck studying under the streetlights .	尼爾森在路燈下學習 。
the real challenge then , is to try to figure out how we can change rules .	真正的挑戰是 , 要想出如何改變規則 。
are there some rules we can develop for changing rules ?	我們能否發展出一些改變規則的規則 ?
i want to argue that there is a general abstract insight that we can make practical , which is that , if we can give more choices to people , and more choices to leaders who , in many countries , are also people .	我認為 , 有一個普遍的抽象概念 , 我們可以實踐 , 那就是 , 如果我們能給人民更多選擇 , 在許多國家 , 更多的選擇 , 給予領導者更多選擇 , 那些領導人也是人民 。
but , it's useful to present the opposition between these two .	但是 , 介紹這兩者之間的對立是有用的 。
because the kind of choice you might want to give to a leader , a choice like giving the president the choice to raise prices on electricity , takes away a choice that people in the economy want .	因為你可能想給領導者這種選擇 , 像是給總統提高電價 , 取消經濟中人們想要的選擇 。
they want the choice to be able to continue consuming subsidized electric power .	他們希望能選擇繼續消耗補助的電力 。
so if you give just to one side or the other , you'll have tension or friction .	所以 , 如果你只給一邊或另一邊 , 你就會有張力或摩擦力 。
but if we can find ways to give more choices to both , that will give us a set of rules for changing rules that get us out of traps .	但如果我們能找到更能給雙方更多選擇的方法 , 那就給我們一套改變規則的規則 , 讓我們脫離困境 。
now , nelson also has access to the internet .	尼爾森也能上網 。
and he says that if you want to see the damaging effects of rules , the ways that rules can keep people in the dark , look at the pictures from nasa of the earth at night .	他說 , 如果你想看到規則的損害效應 , 規則可以讓人們留在黑暗中 , 看著太空總署在夜晚所拍攝的地球照片 。
in particular check out asia .	特別是亞洲 。
if you zoom in here , you can see north korea , in outline here , which is like a black hole compared to its neighbors .	如果你放大來看這裡 , 你可以看到北韓 , 在這裡 , 比起它的鄰居 , 這就像一個黑洞 。
now , you won't be surprised to learn that the rules in north korea keep people there in the dark .	現在 , 你不會驚訝地發現北韓的規則讓人們留在黑暗中 。
but it is important to recognize that north korea and south korea started out with identical sets of rules in both the sense of laws and regulations , but also in the deeper senses of understandings , norms , culture , values and beliefs .	但 , 要了解到北韓和南韓的規則 , 起始於一模一樣的規則 , 不論是法律或法規 , 都一樣 , 更深層的理解 , 規範 , 文化 , 價值觀 , 和信念 。
when they separated , they made choices that led to very divergent paths for their sets of rules .	當他們分開時 , 他們做了一些選擇 , 這些選擇導致他們在規則的條件下非常分歧 。
so we can change we as humans can change the rules that we use to interact with each other , for better , or for worse .	所以 , 我們可以改變身為人類的我們 , 可以改變我們與人互動的規則 , 讓它更好 , 或更糟 。
now let's look at another region , the caribbean .	現在我們來看看另一個加勒比海地區 。
zoom in on haiti , in outline here .	放大海地 , 在這裡 。
haiti is also dark , compared to its neighbor here , the dominican republic , which has about the same number of residents .	海地也很暗 , 和鄰居相比 , 多明尼加共和國的鄰居數目差不多 。
both of these countries are dark compared to puerto rico , which has half as many residents as either haiti or the dominican republic .	相較於波多黎各這兩個國家都很黑暗 , 波多黎各的居民數目是海地或多明尼加共和國的一半以上 。
what haiti warns us is that rules can be bad because governments are weak .	海地警告我們 , 規則之所以不好 , 是因為政府很軟弱 。
it's not just that the rules are bad because the government is too strong and oppressive , as in north korea .	不只如此 , 規則也不好 , 因為政府太強大了 , 太壓迫了 , 就像北韓一樣 。
so that if we want to create environments with good rules , we can't just tear down .	所以 , 如果我們想要創造出有良好規則的環境 , 我們就不能就這樣撕裂 。
we've got to find ways to build up , as well .	我們也必須想辦法建設 。
now , china dramatically demonstrates both the potential and the challenges of working with rules .	現在 , 中國戲劇性地展示出與規則合作的潛在和挑戰 。
back in the beginning of the data presented in this chart , china was the world's hightechnology leader .	回到剛開始的數據圖表 , 中國是世界高科技領袖 。
chinese had pioneered technologies like steel , printing , gunpowder .	中國有先驅的技術 , 像是鋼鐵、列印、火藥 。
but the chinese never adopted , at least in that period , effective rules for encouraging the spread of those ideas a profit motive that could have encouraged the spread .	但中國人從未採用 , 至少在那個時期 , 有效的規則鼓勵傳播這些想法 , 一個獲利的動機 , 可以鼓勵傳播開來 。
and they soon adopted rules which slowed down innovation and cut china off from the rest of the world .	他們很快就採用了規則 , 讓創新慢下來 , 讓中國不再是世界其他地方 。
so as other countries in the world innovated , in the sense both of developing newer technologies , but also developing newer rules , the chinese were cut off from those advances .	所以 , 隨著世界上其他國家的創新 , 在發展新科技的同時 , 中國也發展了更新的規則 , 那些進步都被阻斷了 。
income there stayed stagnant , as it zoomed ahead in the rest of the world .	那裡的收入停滯不前 , 因為它放大了世界其他地方的收入 。
this next chart looks at more recent data .	下一張圖表是比較近期的資料 。
it plots income , average income in china as a percentage of average income in the united states .	它描繪收入、中國的平均收入佔美國平均收入的百分比 。
in the '50s and '60s you can see that it was hovering at about three percent .	在50、60年代 , 你可以看到大約3%的氣候變遷 。
but then in the late '70s something changed .	但到了70年代末期 , 情況改變了 。
growth took off in china . the chinese started catching up very quickly with the united states .	中國經濟開始下降 , 中國也開始快速趕上美國
if you go back to the map at night , you can get a clue to the process that lead to the dramatic change in rules in china .	如果你在晚上回到地圖上 , 就會得到一個線索 , 這個過程會導致中國的規則發生劇烈改變 。
the brightest spot in china , which you can see on the edge of the outline here , is hong kong .	中國最亮的點 , 各位可以看到 , 這張圖的邊緣是香港 。
hong kong was a small bit of china that , for most of the 20th century , operated under a very different set of rules than the rest of mainland china rules that were copied from working market economies of the time , and administered by the british .	香港是中國的一小部分 , 在20世紀大部分的時候 , 都遵守著非常不同的規則 , 比起其他主要的中國大陸規則 , 這些規則都被當時的勞動市場經濟所複製 , 並由英國來管理 。
in the 1950s , hong kong was a place where millions of people could go , from the mainland , to start in jobs like sewing shirts , making toys .	在1950年代 , 香港是一個地方 , 數百萬人可以從大陸前往職場 , 像是縫紉衣服、製作玩具 。
but , to get on a process of increasing income , increasing skills led to very rapid growth there .	但 , 為了取得收入增加的過程 , 技能越來越快的成長 。
hong kong was also the model which leaders like deng xiaoping could copy , when they decided to move all of the mainland towards the market model .	香港也是個典範 , 讓像鄧小平這樣的領導人可以複製 , 當他們決定把整個大陸移到市場模式時 。
but deng xiaoping instinctively understood the importance of offering choices to his people .	但鄧小平直覺地了解到提供人民選擇的重要性 。
so instead of forcing everyone in china to shift immediately to the market model , they proceeded by creating some special zones that could do , in a sense , what britain did: make the opportunity to go work with the market rules available to the people who wanted to opt in there .	所以 , 與其強迫每個中國人立刻轉移到市場模式上 , 他們採取的做法是建立一些特殊的區域 , 從某種意義上來說 , 英國所做的是:讓機會和市場規則合作 , 讓那些想要進入市場的人都能參與 。
so they created four special economic zones around hong kong: zones where chinese could come and work , and cities grew up very rapidly there ; also zones where foreign firms could come in and make things .	所以他們在香港周圍設立了四個特別的經濟區 , 在那裡 , 中國人可以來工作 , 城市的發展非常快 ; 外國企業也能來到這裡 , 創造東西 。
one of the zones next to hong kong has a city called shenzhen .	香港旁邊的一個區域有個叫做深圳的城市 。
in that city there is a taiwanese firm that made the iphone that many of you have , and they made it with labor from chinese who moved there to shenzhen .	在那個城市裡 , 有台台灣的公司 , 讓你們許多人都擁有iphone , 他們把iphone的勞動力從中國移到深圳 。
so after the four special zones , there were 14 coastal cites that were open in the same sense , and eventually demonstrated successes in these places that people could opt in to , that they flocked to because of the advantages they offered .	所以 , 在四個特別區之後 , 有十四個沿海城市 , 以同樣的方式開放 , 最終在這些地方展示了成功 , 人們可以選擇 , 因為他們提供的優勢 , 他們聚在一起 。
demonstrated successes there led to a consensus for a move toward the market model for the entire economy .	證實了成功導致了整體經濟轉向市場模式的共識 。
now the chinese example shows us several points .	中國的例子顯示了幾點
one is: preserve choices for people .	第一:保留人們的選擇 。
two: operate on the right scale .	第二:運作的規模是正確的 。
if you try to change the rules in a village , you could do that , but a village would be too small to get the kinds of benefits you can get if you have millions of people all working under good rules .	如果你試著改變一個村莊的規則 , 你可以這麼做 , 但這個村莊太小了 , 無法得到你所能得到的好處 , 只要有數百萬人在有好的規則下工作 。
on the other hand , the nation is too big .	另一方面 , 國家太大了 。
if you try to change the rules in the nation , you can't give some people a chance to hold back , see how things turn out , and let others zoom ahead and try the new rules .	如果你試著改變國家的規則 , 你就不能給人們一個機會 , 看看事情如何回頭 , 然後讓其他人放大 , 嘗試新的規則 。
but cities give you this opportunity to create new places , with new rules that people can opt in to .	但 , 城市給你機會 , 創造出新地方 , 讓人們可以選擇的新規則 。
and they're large enough to get all of the benefits that we can have when millions of us work together under good rules .	當數百萬人以良好的規則一起工作時 , 他們的利益夠大了 。
so the proposal is that we conceive of something called a charter city .	所以 , 我們的建議是 , 我們想出了 「 特區市 」 。
we start with a charter that specifies all the rules required to attract the people who we'll need to build the city .	我們從一個特定規則的憲章開始 , 來吸引建造城市的人們 。
we'll need to attract the investors who will build out the infrastructure the power system , the roads , the port , the airport , the buildings .	我們需要吸引投資者 , 來建造電力系統、道路、港口、機場、建築物 。
you'll need to attract firms , who will come hire the people who move there first .	你需要吸引公司 , 他們會先僱用那些先搬到那裡的人 。
and you'll need to attract families , the residents who will come and live there permanently , raise their children , get an education for their children , and get their first job .	你需要吸引家庭 , 那些將來會永遠住在那裡的居民 , 養育他們的孩子 , 為他們的孩子而做教育 , 並且得到他們的第一份工作 。
with that charter , people will move there .	有了那篇文章 , 人們就會搬到那裏去 。
the city can be built .	城市可以被建造出來 。
and we can scale this model .	我們可以擴大這個模型 。
we can go do it over and over again .	我們可以一遍又一遍的做下去 。
to make it work , we need good rules . we've already discussed that .	為了讓它運作 , 我們需要好的規則 。 我們已經討論過了 。
those are captured in the charter .	這些是在圖表中捕捉到的 。
we also need the choices for people .	我們也需要人民的選擇 。
that's really built into the model if we allow for the possibility of building cities on uninhabited land .	如果我們能在無人居住的土地上建造城市 , 那真的是建立在模型上的 。
you start from uninhabited territory .	你從無人居住的領土開始 。
people can come live under the new charter , but no one is forced to live under it .	人們可以來到新的憲章底下生活 , 但沒有人被迫活在它底下 。
the final thing we need are choices for leaders .	最後我們需要的是領導者的選擇 。
and , to achieve the kind of choices we want for leaders we need to allow for the potential for partnerships between nations: cases where nations work together , in effect , de facto , the way china and britain worked together to build , first a little enclave of the market model , and then scale it throughout china .	為了達成我們想要領導者的那種選擇 , 我們必須允許國與國之間的合作有潛力:國家合作的案例 , 實際上 , 中國和英國合作的案例 , 首先是建立一個小小的市場模式 , 然後再擴大到中國 。
in a sense , britain , inadvertently , through its actions in hong kong , did more to reduce world poverty than all the aid programs that we've undertaken in the last century .	在某種意義上 , 英國在香港所採取的行動 , 無意間 , 減少了世界貧窮 , 比上個世紀所有援助計畫所做的更多 。
so if we allow for these kind of partnerships to replicate this again , we can get those kinds of benefits scaled throughout the world .	所以如果我們允許這種合作關係再複製一次 , 我們就能在世界各地得到那樣的好處 。
in some cases this will involve a delegation of responsibility , a delegation of control from one country to another to take over certain kinds of administrative responsibilities .	在某些情況下 , 這會牽涉到責任的代表權 , 從一個國家到另一個國家的代表權 , 來接管一些特定的行政責任 。
now , when i say that , some of you are starting to think , " well , is this just bringing back colonialism ? "	當我這麼說時 , 有些人開始思考: 「 這只是把殖民主義帶回來嗎 ? 」
it's not . but it's important to recognize that the kind of emotions that come up when we start to think about these things , can get in the way , can make us pull back , can shut down our ability , and our interest in trying to explore new ideas .	並非如此 。 但重要的是要意識到 , 當我們開始思考這些事情時所產生的情緒 , 可能會造成我們退縮 , 可以阻止我們的能力 , 以及我們想要探索新點子的興趣 。
why is this not like colonialism ?	為什麼不像殖民主義 ?
the thing that was bad about colonialism , and the thing which is residually bad in some of our aid programs , is that it involved elements of coercion and condescension .	殖民主義不好的地方在於 , 在我們的一些援助計畫中 , 常常是很糟糕的 , 是因為它涉及到強制和擁擠的元素 。
this model is all about choices , both for leaders and for the people who will live in these new places .	這個模式的重點在於選擇 , 不論是領導者或將來住在這些新地方的人 。
and , choice is the antidote to coercion and condescension .	選擇是強制和優越的解藥 。
so let's talk about how this could play out in practice .	咱們來談談在實做上 , 要如何做到這一點 。
let's take a particular leader , raul castro , who is the leader of cuba .	以一個特定的領導人raulcastro , 他是古巴的領袖 。
it must have occurred to castro that he has the chance to do for cuba what deng xiaoping did for china , but he doesn't have a hong kong there on the island in cuba .	卡斯楚一定想到 , 他有機會為古巴做到像鄧小平對中國有什麼用處 , 但他在古巴島上沒有香港 。
he does , though , have a little bit of light down in the south that has a very special status .	然而 , 他的確在南方有一點點的光 , 南方有著非常特別的地位 。
there is a zone there , around guantanamo bay , where a treaty gives the united states administrative responsibility for a piece of land that's about twice the size of manhattan .	在關塔那摩灣附近有一塊區域 , 在那裡 , 一個條約給美國政府的責任 , 一塊土地大約是曼哈頓的兩倍大 。
castro goes to the prime minister of canada and says , " look , the yankees have a terrible pr problem .	卡斯楚去找加拿大總理 , 說: 「 看 , 雅各有嚴重的公關問題 。
they want to get out .	他們想要逃出去 。
why don't you , canada , take over ?	為什麼你不 , 加拿大 , 接管呢 ?
build run a special administrative zone .	建立一個特殊的管理區 。
allow a new city to be built up there .	讓一個新城市在上面建造 。
allow many people to come in .	讓許多人進來 。
let us have a hong kong nearby .	讓我們附近有香港 。
some of my citizens will move into that city as well .	我的一些市民也會搬進那個城市 。
others will hold back . but this will be the gateway that will connect the modern economy and the modern world to my country . "	其他人會支持 。 但這將是通往現代經濟和國家的通道 。 」
now , where else might this model be tried ?	此外 , 這個模型還能在哪裡試驗 ?
well , africa . i've talked with leaders in africa .	非洲 , 我和非洲的領導人談過 。
many of them totally get the notion of a special zone that people can opt into as a rule .	許多人完全了解特區的想法 , 讓人們可以選擇成為規則 。
it's a rule for changing rules .	這是改變規則的一條規則 。
it's a way to create new rules , and let people optin without coercion , and the opposition that coercion can force .	它是一種創造新規則的方法 , 讓人們選擇不受任何強制性 , 而強制性可以強迫的反對意見 。
they also totally get the idea that in some instances they can make more credible promises to longterm investors the kind of investors who will come build the port , build the roads , in a new city they can make more credible promises if they do it along with a partner nation .	他們也完全明白 , 在某些情況下 , 他們可以對長期投資者做出更為可信的承諾 , 這些投資者會來建造港口 , 建造道路 , 在新城市中 , 他們可以做出更可靠的承諾 , 如果他們能和夥伴國家合作的話 。
perhaps even in some arrangement that's a little bit like an escrow account , where you put land in the escrow account and the partner nation takes responsibility for it .	甚至在某些安排中 , 這有點像信託管理帳戶 , 把土地放在信託管理帳戶裡 , 而合夥的國家卻為此負起責任 。
there is also lots of land in africa where new cities could be built .	非洲還有很多的土地可以用來建設新城市 。
this is a picture i took when i was flying along the coast .	這是我在沿著海岸飛行時拍的照片 。
there are immense stretches of land like this land where hundreds of millions of people could live .	像這樣的大地 , 有好幾億人可以住在那裡 。
now , if we generalize this and think about not just one or two charter cites , but dozens cities that will help create places for the many hundreds of millions , perhaps billions of people who will move to cities in the coming century is there enough land for them ?	現在 , 如果我們把這個概念歸納成一個或兩個特區的城市 , 會有數十個城市 , 能協助成千上萬 , 甚至數十億人搬到城市裡 , 是否有足夠的土地供給他們 ?
well , throughout the world , if we look at the lights at night , the one thing that's misleading is that , visually , it looks like most of the world is already built out .	嗯 , 在世界各地 , 如果我們在夜晚看著燈光 , 有一樣東西誤導了 , 就是 , 視覺上看來 , 世界上大部分的人都已經被建造出來了 。
so let me show you why that's wrong .	所以 , 讓我來告訴你為什麼那是錯的 。
take this representation of all of the land .	以這所有的土地為例 。
turn it into a square that stands for all the arable land on earth .	把它變成一個方形 , 代表地球上所有的耕地 。
and let these dots represent the land that's already taken up by the cities that three billion people now live in .	讓這些點代表已經被30億人居住的城市所佔據的土地 。
if you move the dots down to the bottom of the rectangle you can see that the cities for the existing three billion urban residents take up only three percent of the arable land on earth .	如果你把點移到長方形的底部你會發現現存的三十億城市只佔地球上可耕地的三分之三
so if we wanted to build cities for another billion people , they would be dots like this .	所以如果我們想為其他十億人建造城市 , 他們會是像這樣的點 。
we'd go from three percent of the arable land , to four percent .	我們從百分之三的可耕地 , 降到百分之四 。
we'd dramatically reduce the human footprint on earth by building more cities that people can move to .	我們大幅縮減了地球上人類留下的足跡 , 做法是建立更多可以移居的城市 。
and if these are cities governed by good rules , they can be cities where people are safe from crime , safe from disease and bad sanitation , where people have a chance to get a job .	如果這些城市的治理是好的規則 , 它們可以是一些城市 , 在那裡 , 人們可以安全地從犯罪、疾病和不良的衛生設施 , 在那裡 , 人們有機會得到工作 。
they can get basic utilities like electricity .	他們可以得到一些基礎設施 , 像是電力 。
their kids can get an education .	他們的孩子可以接受教育 。
so what will it take to get started building the first charter cities , scaling this so we build many more ?	所以 , 要建造出第一座特區城市 , 要花多少時間 , 才能建造出更多 ?
it would help to have a manual .	擁有一份手冊就很有用 。
what university professors could do is write some details that might go into this manual .	大學教授所能做的就是寫下這些手冊中的細節 。
you wouldn't want to let us run the cities , go out and design them .	你不會想讓我們管理城市 , 走出去 , 設計它們 。
you wouldn't let academics out in the wild .	你不會讓學者在野外學習 。
but , you could set us to work thinking about questions like , suppose it isn't just canada that does the deal with raul castro .	但 , 你可以讓我們開始思考像這樣的問題 , 假設不只是加拿大的拉爾•卡斯楚的問題 。
perhaps brazil comes in as a participant , and spain as well . and perhaps cuba wants to be one of the partners in a fourway joint venture .	也許巴西是參與者 , 西班牙也是 。 也許古巴想成為四方聯合大企業的合作夥伴之一 。
how would we write the treaty to do that ?	我們要如何訂定條約來做這件事 ?
there is less precedent for that , but that could easily be worked out .	前所未有的 , 但那很容易解決 。
how would we finance this ?	我們要如何資助這項資金 ?
turns out singapore and hong kong are cities that made huge gains on the value of the land that they owned when they got started .	結果發現 , 新加坡和香港是能在他們剛開始時 , 取得大量的土地價值的城市 。
you could use the gains on the value of the land to pay for things like the police , the courts , but the school system and the health care system too , which make this a more attractive place to live , makes this a place where people have higher incomes which , incidentally , makes the land more valuable .	你可以利用土地價值來支付像是警察、法庭等的收入 , 但同時 , 學校和健康照護體系也讓這變成一個更吸引人的地方 , 讓人們有更高的收入 , 順帶一提 , 讓土地更有價值 。
so the incentives for the people helping to construct this zone and build it , and set up the basic rules , go very much in the right direction .	所以 , 那些協助建設這塊區域的人的獎勵 , 建立起了基本規則 , 往正確的方向發展 。
so there are many other details like this .	還有很多其它的細節 。
how could we have buildings that are low cost and affordable for people who work in a first job , assembling something like an iphone , but make those buildings energy efficient , and make sure that they are safe , so they don't fall down in an earthquake or a hurricane .	我們要如何讓低成本、負擔得起的建築物 , 讓第一份工作的人們 , 組裝iphone , 讓建築物的能源效率提升 , 確保它們是安全的 , 讓他們不會在地震或颶風中下降 。
many technical details to be worked out , but those of us who are already starting to pursue these things can already tell that there is no roadblock , there's no impediment , other than a failure of imagination , that will keep us from delivering on a truly global winwin solution .	許多技術細節尚未解決 , 但是我們這些已經開始追求這些事情的人 , 已經知道沒有路障 , 沒有阻礙 , 除非想像失敗 , 會讓我們無法實現全球雙贏的解決方案 。
let me conclude with this picture .	讓我用這張照片來做結論 。
the reason we can be so well off , even though there is so many people on earth , is because of the power of ideas .	我們之所以能做得好 , 是因為地球上有這麼多人 , 是因為想法的力量 。
we can share ideas with other people , and when they discover them , they share with us .	我們可以和他人分享想法 , 當他們發現這些想法時 , 他們會和我們分享 。
it's not like scarce objects , where sharing means we each get less .	它不像稀少物品 , 分享意味著我們每個人都得到較少的資源 。
when we share ideas we all get more .	當我們分享想法時 , 我們會得到更多 。
when we think about ideas in that way , we usually think about technologies .	當我們以這種方式來思考想法時 , 我們通常會去思考科技 。
but there is another class of ideas: the rules that govern how we interact with each other ; rules like , let's have a tax system that supports a research university that gives away certain kinds of knowledge for free .	但還有另一種想法:支配我們彼此互動的規則 , 例如 , 讓我們來設立一個稅收系統 , 來支持一個研究大學 , 免費提供某些知識 。
let's have a system where we have ownership of land that is registered in a government office , that people can pledge as collateral .	讓我們有一個系統 , 在那裡 , 我們有土地的所有權 , 在政府辦公室內註冊 , 大家可以保證它是附屬的 。
if we can keep innovating on our space of rules , and particularly innovate in the sense of coming up with rules for changing rules , so we don't get stuck with bad rules , then we can keep moving progress forward and truly make the world a better place , so that people like nelson and his friends don't have to study any longer under the streetlights . thank you .	如果我們能繼續創新規則 , 尤其是創新的制度 , 改變制度的制度 , 這樣我們就不會卡在不好的制度上 , 我們就能持續進步 , 真正地讓世界變得更好 , 讓像尼爾森和他的朋友不再需要在路燈下學習 。 謝謝 。
genomics pioneer craig venter takes a break from his epic roundtheworld expedition to talk about the millions of genes his team has discovered so far in its quest to map the ocean’s biodiversity .	基因先驅克雷格•凡特從他的史詩級的圓形探險中休息一下 , 來談談數百萬個基因 , 他的團隊目前已經在探索 , 要繪製出海洋生物多樣性 。
dna , biosphere , biotech , entrepreneur , genetics , invention , oceans , science , technology	dna , 生物圈 , 生物科技 , 企業家 , 基因 , 發明 , 海洋 , 科學 , 科技 , 科技 。
craig venter on dna and the sea	克雷格•凡特在dna和大海上 ,
at the break , i was asked by several people about my comments about the aging debate .	剛開始 , 很多人問我關於老化的辯論 。
and this will be my only comment on it .	這是我對此唯一的評論 。
and that is , i understand that optimists greatly outlive pessimists .	那就是 , 我了解樂觀主義者大大勝過悲觀主義者 。
what i'm going to tell you about in my 18 minutes is how we're about to switch from reading the genetic code to the first stages of beginning to write the code ourselves .	在我18分鐘內 , 我要告訴各位的是我們如何從解讀遺傳密碼轉換到開始自己寫程式的第一階段 。
it's only 10 years ago this month when we published the first sequence of a freeliving organism , that of haemophilus influenzae .	僅僅在10年前的一個月 , 我們發表了第一組免費的有機體的基因序列 , 也就是嗜血桿菌的流行病 。
that took a genome project from 13 years down to four months .	這個計畫花了13年的時間 , 才到4個月 。
we can now do that same genome project in the order of two to eight hours .	我們現在可以在兩到八小時內完成同樣的基因組計畫 。
so in the last decade , a large number of genomes have been added: most human pathogens , a couple of plants , several insects and several mammals , including the human genome .	過去十年間 , 許多基因組被加上:大部分的人類病原體 , 幾種植物 , 幾種昆蟲和幾種哺乳類 , 包括人類基因組 。
genomics at this stage of the thinking from a little over 10 years ago was , by the end of this year , we might have between three and five genomes sequenced ; it's on the order of several hundred .	大約十年前 , 這種想法的基因組學 , 到今年底 , 我們可能已經完成了三到五組基因組的定序 ; 已經完成了數百次了 。
we just got a grant from the gordon and betty moore foundation to sequence 130 genomes this year , as a side project from environmental organisms .	我們剛從godon和bettymoore基金會得到了一項補助 , 來為今年的130個基因組排序 , 作為環保有機體的副產品 。
so the rate of reading the genetic code has changed .	所以 , 閱讀基因編碼的速度已經改變了 。
but as we look , what's out there , we've barely scratched the surface on what is available on this planet .	但當我們觀察時 , 地球上有什麼 , 我們幾乎沒有抓住這個星球上可用的表面 。
most people don't realize it , because they're invisible , but microbes make up about a half of the earth's biomass , whereas all animals only make up about one onethousandth of all the biomass .	大部分人不知道 , 因為它們是肉眼看不見的 , 但微生物佔據了地球半數的生物量 , 而所有的動物只佔了生物總量的1/4 。
and maybe it's something that people in oxford don't do very often , but if you ever make it to the sea , and you swallow a mouthful of seawater , keep in mind that each milliliter has about a million bacteria and on the order of 10 million viruses .	也許在牛津的人們不太常這樣做 , 但如果你曾到過海面 , 吞下一口海水 , 請記住 , 每一毫升的海水中都有大約一百萬個細菌和一千萬個病毒 。
less than 5 , 000 microbial species have been characterized as of two years ago , and so we decided to do something about it .	兩年前 , 只有不到五千種微生物物種被分類 , 所以我們決定要做點什麼 。
and we started the sorcerer ii expedition , where we were , as with great oceanographic expeditions , trying to sample the ocean every 200 miles .	我們開始了索爾第二次考察 , 在那裡 , 我們進行了很棒的海洋學探險 , 每200英里一次採集樣本 。
we started in bermuda for our test project , then moved up to halifax , working down the u . s . east coast , the caribbean sea , the panama canal , through to the galapagos , then across the pacific , and we're in the process now of working our way across the indian ocean .	我們從百慕達開始做我們的測試計畫 , 接著搬到哈利法克斯 , 沿著美國東岸 , 加勒比海 , 巴拿馬運河 , 穿越加拉巴哥群島 , 橫越太平洋 , 現在我們正在橫越印度洋 。
it's very tough duty ; we're doing this on a sailing vessel , in part to help excite young people about going into science .	非常困難的責任 ; 我們在帆船上做這件事 , 有一部分是要協助年輕人進入科學領域 。
the experiments are incredibly simple .	實驗非常簡單 。
we just take seawater and we filter it , and we collect different size organisms on different filters , and then take their dna back to our lab in rockville , where we can sequence a hundred million letters of the genetic code every 24 hours .	我們只需要用海水來過濾 , 我們在不同過濾器收集不同大小的有機體 , 然後把它們的dna帶回洛克維爾的實驗室 , 在那裡 , 我們可以在24小時內完成一億封基因編碼的基因序列 。
and with doing this , we've made some amazing discoveries .	透過這麼做 , 我們有了驚人的發現 。
for example , it was thought that the visual pigments that are in our eyes there was only one or two organisms in the environment that had these same pigments .	舉例來說 , 有人認為我們的眼睛裡有視覺色素 , 環境中只有一或兩種有機體有著相同的色素 。
it turns out , almost every species in the upper parts of the ocean in warm parts of the world have these same photoreceptors , and use sunlight as the source of their energy and communication .	結果發現 , 幾乎在全球暖化的海上每一個物種都有相同的光感接收器 , 把陽光當作能量和溝通的來源 。
from one site , from one barrel of seawater , we discovered 1 . 3 million new genes and as many as 50 , 000 new species .	從一個地點 , 從一桶海水中 , 我們發現了130萬個新基因 , 和多達50 , 000種新物種 。
we've extended this to the air now with a grant from the sloan foundation .	現在我們將這個計畫延伸到空氣中 , 得到史隆基金會的獎勵 。
we're measuring how many viruses and bacteria all of us are breathing in and out every day , particularly on airplanes or closed auditoriums .	我們在測量有多少病毒和細菌 , 我們每天都在呼吸中和出去 , 特別是在飛機上或封閉的觀眾區 。
we filter through some simple apparatuses ; we collect on the order of a billion microbes from just a day filtering on top of a building in new york city .	我們透過一些簡單的裝置來篩選 ; 我們從僅僅一天的時間內 , 就在紐約市的一棟大樓頂上 , 就收集了十億微生物的數量 。
and we're in the process of sequencing all that at the present time .	目前我們正在進行測序 。
just on the data collection side , just where we are through the galapagos , we're finding that almost every 200 miles , we see tremendous diversity in the samples in the ocean .	就在資料收集方面 , 我們在加拉巴哥群島的位置 , 我們發現幾乎每200英里 , 海洋樣本就有極大的多樣性 。
some of these make logical sense , in terms of different temperature gradients .	有些在不同溫度下 , 合理的說法是合理的 。
so this is a satellite photograph based on temperatures red being warm , blue being cold and we found there's a tremendous difference between the warm water samples and the cold water samples , in terms of abundant species .	這是一張衛星照片 , 根據紅色的溫度 , 藍色是溫暖的 , 藍色是低溫的 , 我們發現 , 溫暖的水樣本和低溫的水樣本之間有很大的差異 , 用大量的物種來說 。
the other thing that surprised us quite a bit is these photoreceptors detect different wavelengths of light , and we can predict that based on their amino acid sequence .	另一件讓我們相當驚訝的事是這些感光受體偵測到不同波長的光 , 我們可以根據它們的氨基酸序列預測出這些波長 。
and these vary tremendously from region to region .	這些變化從地區到地區都非常不同 。
maybe not surprisingly , in the deep ocean , where it's mostly blue , the photoreceptors tend to see blue light .	也許不出所料 , 在深海 , 大部分是藍色的 , 感光器通常會看到藍色的光 。
when there's a lot of chlorophyll around , they see a lot of green light .	當周圍有很多葉綠素時 , 它們會看到很多綠色的光 。
but they vary even more , possibly moving towards infrared and ultraviolet in the extremes .	但它們的變化更大 , 極端的是紅外線和紫外線 。
just to try and get an assessment of what our gene repertoire was , we assembled all the data including all of ours thus far from the expedition , which represents more than half of all the gene data on the planet and it totaled around 29 million genes .	為了評估我們的基因庫是什麼 , 我們把所有的資料組合起來 , 包括我們所有的基因資料 , 包括遠離考察的所有資料 , 這代表地球上一半以上所有的基因資料 , 總共大約有2千9百萬個基因 。
and we tried to put these into gene families to see what these discoveries are: are we just discovering new members of known families , or are we discovering new families ?	我們試著把這些基因放進基因家庭 , 看看這些發現是什麼:我們只是發現已知家庭的新成員 , 還是發現了新家庭 ?
and it turns out we have about 50 , 000 major gene families , but every new sample we take in the environment adds in a linear fashion to these new families .	結果發現 , 我們有大約五萬個主要的基因家族 , 但我們在環境中所採取的每個新樣本 , 都以線性的形式在這些新家庭中加入 。
so we're at the earliest stages of discovery about basic genes , components and life on this planet .	我們正處於最早的發現基礎基因、組成和生命的階段 。
when we look at the socalled evolutionary tree , we're up on the upper righthand corner with the animals .	當我們看看所謂的進化樹 , 我們就在右上角 , 和動物在一起 。
of those roughly 29 million genes , we only have around 24 , 000 in our genome .	在大約2億9千萬個基因中 , 我們的基因組只有24 , 000個 。
and if you take all animals together , we probably share less than 30 , 000 and probably maybe a dozen or more thousand different gene families .	如果你把所有的動物放在一起 , 我們的基因組大概只有不到三萬個 , 也許還有十多個或上千個 。
i view that these genes are now not only the design components of evolution .	我認爲這些基因不僅僅是進化的設計成分 。
and we think in a genecentric view maybe going back to richard dawkins' ideas than in a genomecentric view , which are different constructs of these gene components .	我們認為以基因為中心的觀點 , 也許會回到理查德•達金斯的觀點 , 比起以基因為中心的觀點 , 這觀點不同 。
synthetic dna , the ability to synthesize dna , has changed at sort of the same pace that dna sequencing has over the last decade or two , and is getting very rapid and very cheap .	合成dna , 合成dna的能力已經改變了 , 和過去十年或二十年間dna測序的速度差不多 , 且成本越來越低 。
our first thought about synthetic genomics came when we sequenced the second genome back in 1995 , and that from mycoplasma genitalium .	我們對人造基因組學的第一個想法是1995年我們將第二組基因組定序 , 也是從菌根生殖器取得的 。
and we have really nice tshirts that say , you know , " i heart my genitalium . "	我們有很棒的t恤上面寫著: 「 我很愛我的生殖器 。 」
this is actually just a microorganism .	這其實只是種微生物 。
but it has roughly 500 genes .	但大約有500個基因 。
haemophilus had 1 , 800 genes .	嗜血桿菌有1800個基因 。
and we simply asked the question , if one species needs 800 , another 500 , is there a smaller set of genes that might comprise a minimal operating system ?	我們只是問一個問題 , 如果一個物種需要800種 , 再另外的500種 , 會不會有一組比較小的基因 , 可能是由最小的作業系統所組成的 ?
so we started doing transposon mutagenesis .	所以我們開始做轉子突變 。
transposons are just small pieces of dna that randomly insert in the genetic code .	轉位子只是隨機插入基因密碼的一小片dna片段 。
and if they insert in the middle of the gene , they disrupt its function .	如果它們插入到基因的正中間 , 就會阻斷它的功能 。
so we made a map of all the genes that could take transposon insertions and we called those " nonessential genes . "	所以我們做了一張地圖 , 標示了所有可以接受轉位子插入的基因圖 , 我們稱之為 「 非必要基因 」 。
but it turns out the environment is very critical for this , and you can only define an essential or nonessential gene based on exactly what's in the environment .	但事實證明 , 環境對此非常重要 , 你只能依據環境中的本質或非必要的基因來定義一個必要或非必要的基因 。
we also tried to take a more directly intellectual approach with the genomes of 13 related organisms , and we tried to compare all of those , to see what they had in common .	我們也嘗試用比較直接的智能方法來處理13種相關的有機體的基因組 , 我們試圖比較這些基因組 , 看看它們有什麼共通點 。
and we got these overlapping circles . and we found only 173 genes common to all 13 organisms .	我們發現了這些重疊的圓圈 。 我們發現了173個基因 , 所有13個有機體 。
the pool expanded a little bit if we ignored one intracellular parasite ; it expanded even more when we looked at core sets of genes of around 310 or so .	如果我們忽略了一個細胞寄生蟲 , 這個池塘會再膨脹一點 , 當我們觀察核心基因組的310種左右時 , 它會擴張得更多 。
so we think that we can expand or contract genomes , depending on your point of view here , to maybe 300 to 400 genes from the minimal of 500 .	所以我們認為我們可以擴大或收縮基因組 , 依據你的觀點來看 , 到大約300到400個基因 , 從最少的500個基因 。
the only way to prove these ideas was to construct an artificial chromosome with those genes in them , and we had to do this in a cassettebased fashion .	要證明這些想法的唯一方法 , 就是用這些基因來建構一個人造的染色體 , 而我們必須以一種隨機方式來進行 。
we found that synthesizing accurate dna in large pieces was extremely difficult .	我們發現 , 在大片區域中 , 合成dna的確是非常困難的 。
ham smith and clyde hutchison , my colleagues on this , developed an exciting new method that allowed us to synthesize a 5 , 000base pair virus in only a twoweek period that was 100 percent accurate , in terms of its sequence and its biology .	史密斯和clydehutchison , 我的同事 , 開發了一種令人興奮的新方法 , 讓我們能在兩週內合成一組五千個鹼基對的病毒 , 這種方法的準確度是百分之百 , 就其序列和生物學來說 。
it was a quite exciting experiment when we just took the synthetic piece of dna , injected it in the bacteria and all of a sudden , that dna started driving the production of the virus particles that turned around and then killed the bacteria .	這是個非常令人興奮的實驗 , 當我們把合成的dna注入細菌中 , 突然間 , dna開始製造病毒粒子 , 然後殺死細菌 。
this was not the first synthetic virus a polio virus had been made a year before but it was only one tenthousandth as active and it took three years to do .	這不是第一次合成病毒 , 小兒麻痺病毒一年前就被製造出來了 , 但只有十分之一的活性 , 而且花了三年才完成 。
this is a cartoon of the structure of phi x 174 .	這是phix174的卡通結構 。
this is a case where the software now builds its own hardware , and that's the notions that we have with biology .	這是軟體自己製造的硬體 , 這是生物學的概念 。
people immediately jump to concerns about biological warfare , and i had recent testimony before a senate committee , and a special committee the u . s . government has set up to review this area .	人們立即跳入對生物戰爭的擔憂 , 最近我在參議院委員會前發表了證詞 , 美國政府設立了一個特殊委員會來審查這個領域 。
and i think it's important to keep reality in mind , versus what happens with people's imaginations .	我認為 , 把現實放在心中是很重要的 , 而不是人們的想像力會發生什麼事 。
basically , any virus that's been sequenced today that genome can be made .	基本上 , 現今任何已經被定序過的病毒 , 都可以被製造出來 。
and people immediately freak out about things about ebola or smallpox , but the dna from this organism is not infective .	人們馬上會對伊波拉病毒或天花感到驚恐 , 但這個有機體的dna卻沒有傳染 。
so even if somebody made the smallpox genome , that dna itself would not cause infections .	所以即使有人做了天花基因組 , dna本身也不會引起感染 。
the real concern that security departments have is designer viruses .	真正的問題是 , 安全部門有設計師病毒 。
and there's only two countries , the u . s . and the former soviet union , that had major efforts on trying to create biological warfare agents .	只有兩個國家 , 美國和前蘇聯 , 曾有過重大的努力 , 試圖創造生物戰士 。
if that research is truly discontinued , there should be very little activity on the knowhow to make designer viruses in the future .	如果這個研究真的被解除了 , 在未來 , 設計師病毒的知識應該不會有太大的活躍性 。
i think singlecell organisms are possible within two years .	我認為兩年內 , 單細胞生物就有可能成真 。
and possibly eukaryotic cells , those that we have , are possible within a decade .	而我們擁有的真核細胞 , 在十年內就有可能成真 。
so we're now making several dozen different constructs , because we can vary the cassettes and the genes that go into this artificial chromosome .	所以我們現在正在做數十種不同的建構 , 因為我們可以改變這個人造染色體中的序列和基因 。
the key is , how do you put all of the others ?	關鍵在於 , 你要如何把其他的都放進去 ?
we start with these fragments , and then we have a homologous recombination system that reassembles those into a chromosome .	我們從這些碎片開始 , 然後我們有一個同源重組系統 , 將它們組合成染色體 。
this is derived from an organism , deinococcus radiodurans , that can take three million rads of radiation and not be killed .	這是從生物體中衍生出來的 , 致命的無線電波 , 可以讓三百萬拉德輻射被殺死 。
it reassembles its genome after this radiation burst in about 12 to 24 hours , after its chromosomes are literally blown apart .	在輻射爆炸之後 , 它會在12到24小時內重組它的基因組 , 在它的染色體被完全炸開之後 。
this organism is ubiquitous on the planet , and exists perhaps now in outer space due to all our travel there .	這種生物在地球上無所不在 , 可能因為我們在外太空旅行 , 已在外太空中生存 。
this is a glass beaker after about half a million rads of radiation .	這是一個玻璃啤酒杯 , 經過約50萬倍的輻射 。
the glass started to burn and crack , while the microbes sitting in the bottom just got happier and happier .	玻璃開始燃燒和裂縫 , 而微生物坐在最底層 , 愈來愈開心 。
here's an actual picture of what happens: the top of this shows the genome after 1 . 7 million rads of radiation .	這裡有一張實際發生的照片 , 上面的圖片顯示了在一百七十萬拉德輻射之後的基因組 。
the chromosome is literally blown apart .	染色體被炸開了 。
and here's that same dna automatically reassembled 24 hours later .	同樣的dna在24小時後自動重新組合 。
it's truly stunning that these organisms can do that , and we probably have thousands , if not tens of thousands , of different species on this planet that are capable of doing that .	令人驚訝的是 , 這些生物可以做到這一點 , 我們的地球上也許有數千種 , 甚至數萬種不同的物種能做到這一點 。
after these genomes are synthesized , the first step is just transplanting them into a cell without a genome .	在這些基因組被合成之後 , 第一步就是將它們移植到沒有基因組的細胞中 。
so we think synthetic cells are going to have tremendous potential , not only for understanding the basis of biology but for hopefully environmental and society issues .	所以我們認為合成細胞將會有極大的潛力 , 不僅僅是為了了解生物學的基礎 , 同時也為了環境和社會議題 。
for example , from the third organism we sequenced , methanococcus jannaschii it lives in boiling water temperatures ; its energy source is hydrogen and all its carbon comes from co2 it captures back from the environment .	例如 , 從我們測序的第三種有機體中 , 甲烷-jannaschii-它的沸騰水溫 ; 它的能量來源是氫氣 , 所有的二氧化碳--它從環境中收集回來 。
so we know lots of different pathways , thousands of different organisms now that live off of co2 , and can capture that back .	所以我們知道許多不同的路徑 , 數千種不同的生物 , 都活在二氧化碳之外 , 可以回收到 。
so instead of using carbon from oil for synthetic processes , we have the chance of using carbon and capturing it back from the atmosphere , converting that into biopolymers or other products .	所以 , 與其用從石油中取出的碳來進行合成過程 , 我們有機會使用碳 , 將碳從大氣中捕捉回來 , 將它轉換成生物聚合物或其他產品 。
we have one organism that lives off of carbon monoxide , and we use as a reducing power to split water to produce hydrogen and oxygen .	我們有一種有機體 , 活在一氧化碳之外 , 我們用它來當作減少水分來分解水 , 來產生氫氣和氧氣 。
also , there's numerous pathways that can be engineered metabolizing methane .	此外 , 還有許多方法可以被改造成代謝甲烷 。
and dupont has a major program with statoil in norway to capture and convert the methane from the gas fields there into useful products .	杜邦在挪威 , 主要的計畫是採用現金燃料 , 將甲烷從天然氣場轉換成有用的產品 。
within a short while , i think there's going to be a new field called " combinatorial genomics , " because with these new synthesis capabilities , these vast gene array repertoires and the homologous recombination , we think we can design a robot to make maybe a million different chromosomes a day .	不久之後 , 我認為會有一個新的領域 , 叫做 「 組合基因組學 」 , 因為有了這些新的合成能力 , 這些巨大的基因組重組 , 和同源重組 , 我們認為我們可以設計一個機器人 , 一天可以製造出一百萬種不同的染色體 。
and therefore , as with all biology , you get selection through screening , whether you're screening for hydrogen production , or chemical production , or just viability .	所以 , 就像所有生物學一樣 , 你在篩選螢幕時 , 是否在篩選氫氣生產 , 或化學生產 , 或只是可行性 。
to understand the role of these genes is going to be well within reach .	要了解這些基因所扮演的角色 , 將會是非常容易取得的 。
we're trying to modify photosynthesis to produce hydrogen directly from sunlight .	我們嘗試修改光合作用的過程 , 直接從陽光下直接產生氫氣 。
photosynthesis is modulated by oxygen , and we have an oxygeninsensitive hydrogenase that we think will totally change this process .	光合作用是由氧氣來調節的 , 我們認為有一種氧不敏感的氫化酶會完全改變這個過程 。
we're also combining cellulases , the enzymes that break down complex sugars into simple sugars and fermentation in the same cell for producing ethanol .	我們也結合了纖維素 , 分解複雜糖分解成簡單糖和發酵的酵素 , 在同一個細胞中製造乙醇 。
pharmaceutical production is already under way in major laboratories using microbes .	用微生物 , 製藥生產已經在大型實驗室中進行了 。
the chemistry from compounds in the environment is orders of magnitude more complex than our best chemists can produce .	環境中的化合物所產生的化學成分比我們最好的化學家所能製造的更為複雜 。
i think future engineered species could be the source of food , hopefully a source of energy , environmental remediation and perhaps replacing the petrochemical industry .	我認為未來的工程物種可以是食物的來源 , 希望是能源的來源 , 環境的修復 , 也許可以取代石化工業 。
let me just close with ethical and policy studies .	讓我以倫理和政策研究來做結尾 。
we delayed the start of our experiments in 1999 until we completed a yearandahalf bioethical review as to whether we should try and make an artificial species .	我們在1999年開始實驗 , 直到我們完成一年半的生物倫理審查 , 是否應該嘗試製造人造物種 。
every major religion participated in this .	每一個主要的宗教都參與其中 。
it was actually a very strange study , because the various religious leaders were using their scriptures as law books , and they couldn't find anything in them prohibiting making life , so it must be ok . the only ultimate concerns were biological warfare aspects of this , but gave us the go ahead to start these experiments for the reasons we were doing them .	這其實是個很奇怪的研究 , 因為各種宗教領袖使用他們的經文當作法律 , 他們無法在他們身上找到任何東西 , 禁止製造生命 , 所以這肯定是沒問題的 。 唯一的擔憂是生物戰的方面 , 但前提是我們要開始進行這些實驗的原因 。
right now the sloan foundation has just funded a multiinstitutional study on this , to work out what the risk and benefits to society are , and the rules that scientific teams such as my own should be using in this area , and we're trying to set good examples as we go forward .	現在斯隆基金會剛剛資助了一項多制性的研究 , 來找出對社會有哪些風險和益處 , 以及像我這樣的科學團隊應該在這個領域中使用的規則 , 在我們往前走時 , 我們試圖建立好的例子 。
these are complex issues .	這些是複雜的問題 。
except for the threat of bioterrorism , they're very simple issues in terms of , can we design things to produce clean energy , perhaps revolutionizing what developing countries can do and provide through various simple processes .	除了對生物恐怖主義的威脅之外 , 它們是非常簡單的議題 , 我們是否能設計出乾淨的能源 , 也許能革新發展中國家能做些什麼 , 並透過各種簡單的程序來提供 。
psychologist philip zimbardo says happiness and success are rooted in a trait most of us disregard: the way we orient toward the past , present and future . he suggests we calibrate our outlook on time as a first step to improving our lives .	心理學家菲利普•辛巴多說 , 快樂和成功根植於我們大多數人不認同的特徵中:我們對過去、現在 , 和未來的方向 。 他建議我們在改善我們生活的第一步 , 校正我們的觀點 。
brain , business , happiness , mind , psychology , science	大腦、商業、快樂、心靈、心理學、科學、科學 。
philip zimbardo prescribes a healthy take on time	菲利普津巴多開處方是健康的服用時間 。
i want to share with you some ideas about the secret power of time , in a very short time .	我想和大家分享一些關於時間的秘密力量的想法 , 很短的時間內 。
video: all right , start the clock please . 30 seconds studio .	影片:好的 , 開始計時 。 三十秒鐘 。
keep it quiet please . settle down .	保持安靜 , 安靜下來 。
it's about time . end sequence . take one .	時間到了 , 結束序列 。 選一個 。
10 , nine , eight , seven , six , five , four , three , two . . .	10、9、8、7、5、4、3、2......
philip zimbardo: let's tune into the conversation of the principals in adam's temptation .	菲利普•辛巴多:咱們來調整一下亞當的誘惑對話 。
" come on adam , don't be so wishywashy . take a bite . " " i did . "	「 亞當 , 別太希望 , 咬一口吧 。 」 「 我做到了 。 」
" one bite , adam . don't abandon eve . "	" 一口 , 亞當 , 不要放棄 "
" i don't know , guys .	「 各位 , 我不知道 。
i don't want to get in trouble . "	我不想惹上麻煩 。 」
" okay . one bite . what the hell ? "	「 好 , 咬一口 , 到底怎麼了 ? 」
life is temptation . it's all about yielding , resisting , yes , no , now , later , impulsive , reflective , present focus and future focus .	人生是誘惑 。 重點是要產生 , 抗拒 , 是 , 沒錯 , 現在 , 稍後 , 要有衝動性 , 要有現在 , 和未來的焦點 。
promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment .	承諾的美德會落入當下的熱情 。
of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage thank you george bush the majority , 60 percent , yielded to sexual temptations within one year .	那些在婚前承諾性別絕種和處女的少女們 , 直到婚姻感謝喬治.布希--大多數 , 60%的少女 , 在一年內被性誘惑所誘惑 。
and most of them did so without using birth control .	他們大部分都沒有採用避孕措施 。
so much for promises .	很多的承諾 。
now lets tempt fouryearolds , giving them a treat .	現在 , 來試試四歲小孩 , 給他們治療 。
they can have one marshmallow now . but if they wait until the experimenter comes back , they can have two .	現在他們可以有一顆棉花糖 。 但是如果他們等到實驗員回來 , 他們就可以有兩顆 。
of course it pays , if you like marshmallows , to wait .	當然 , 若你喜歡棉花糖 , 它會付出代價 。
what happens is twothirds of the kids give in to temptation .	孩子給予三分之二的誘惑 。
they cannot wait . the others , of course , wait .	他們不能等待 , 其他人則等著 。
they resist the temptation . they delay the now for later .	他們抗拒誘惑 。 他們延後了現在 。
walter mischel , my colleague at stanford , went back 14 years later , to try to discover what was different about those kids .	沃爾特.米歇爾 , 我在史丹佛大學的同事 , 十四年後 , 試圖發現這些孩子的不同之處 。
there were enormous differences between kids who resisted and kids who yielded , in many ways .	在許多層面上 , 被拒絕的孩子和被分配的孩子之間有著巨大的差異 。
the kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the sat .	抗拒分數的孩子 , 在sat考試中得分250分 。
that's enormous . that's like a whole set of different iq points .	非常龐大 。 這就像一整套不同的智商點 。
they didn't get in as much trouble . they were better students .	他們沒有惹上麻煩 , 他們是比較好的學生 。
they were selfconfident and determined . and the key for me today , the key for you , is , they were futurefocused rather than presentfocused .	他們是自信且有決心的 。 今天對我來說 , 對你來說 , 關鍵是 , 他們是以未來為中心 , 而不是以現在為中心 。
so what is time perspective ? that's what i'm going to talk about today .	所以 , 什麼是 「 時間觀點 」 ? 這就是我今天要談的 。
time perspective is the study of how individuals , all of us , divide the flow of your human experience into time zones or time categories .	時間觀點是研究個體 , 我們所有人 , 把你經歷的流向分成時間區或時間區別 。
and you do it automatically and nonconsciously .	而且你會自動且無意識地去做 。
they vary between cultures , between nations , between individuals , between social classes , between education levels .	在文化、國家、個人、社會階級、教育水平之間 , 都不同 。
and the problem is that they can become biased , because you learn to overuse some of them and underuse the others .	問題是 , 它們會變得有偏見 , 因為你會學會過度使用它們 , 並忽略其他的部分 。
what determines any decision you make ?	你做了什麼決定 ?
you make a decision on which you're going to base an action .	你要做一個決定 , 決定你要採取行動 。
for some people it's only about what is in the immediate situation , what other people are doing and what you're feeling .	對某些人來說 , 只有在當下的情況下 , 其他人在做什麼 , 和你的感受 。
and those people , when they make their decisions in that format we're going to call them " presentoriented , " because their focus is what is now .	而那些人 , 當他們以那種形式做決定時 , 我們會稱他們為 「 現場化 」 , 因為他們關注的是現在 。
for others , the present is irrelevant .	對其他人來說 , 現在是無關緊要的 。
it's always about " what is this situation like that i've experienced in the past ? "	總是說 「 我過去經歷過的情況是什麼樣子 ? 」
so that their decisions are based on past memories .	所以他們的決策是基於過去的記憶 。
and we're going to call those people " pastoriented , " because they focus on what was .	我們稱這些人為 「 被遺棄的 」 , 因為他們關注的是 「 被遺棄的 」 。
for others it's not the past , it's not the present , it's only about the future .	對其他人 , 不是過去 , 不是現在 , 只是未來 。
their focus is always about anticipated consequences .	他們的焦點總是關於預期的結果 。
we're going to call them " futureoriented . " their focus is on what will be .	我們稱他們為 「 未來導向 」 。 他們的重點在於未來的將來 。
so , time paradox , i want to argue , the paradox of time perspective , is something that influences every decision you make , you're totally unaware of .	所以 , 時間悖論 , 我想要爭論 , 時間觀的悖論 , 是會影響你做的每個決定 , 你完全沒意識到 。
namely , the extent to which you have one of these biased time perspectives .	也就是說 , 在這樣的程度上 , 你有一個偏頗的時間觀點 。
well there is actually six of them . there are two ways to be presentoriented .	嗯 , 其實有六個 。 有兩種方式可以當成現況 。
there is two ways to be pastoriented , two ways to be future .	有兩種方式可以被牧養 , 兩種方式可以成為未來 。
you can focus on pastpositive , or pastnegative .	你可以把焦點放在正面的、或負面的 。
you can be presenthedonistic , namely you focus on the joys of life , or presentfatalist it doesn't matter , your life is controlled .	你可以是 " 服從主義者 " , 也就是你把焦點放在人生的喜悅上 , 或 " 當下主義者 " , 這無關緊要 , 你的生活被控制著 。
you can be futureoriented , setting goals .	你可以是未來導向的 , 設定目標 。
or you can be transcendental future: namely , life begins after death .	或者 , 你也可以是超然的未來 , 也就是說 , 生命從死後開始 。
developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidly depending on the demands of the situation , that's what you've got to learn to do .	發展出靈活性靈活性 , 來改變時間觀點 , 會根據情況的需求而流暢地變化 , 這是你得要學會做的事 。
so , very quickly , what is the optimal time profile ?	所以 , 很快地 , 什麼是最佳時光檔案 ?
high on pastpositive . moderately high on future .	高於正面懷舊 , 適度高於未來
and moderate on presenthedonism .	並且調節當下的 " 現在主義 " 。
and always low on pastnegative and presentfatalism .	不論是負面的還是現代的 。
so the optimal temporal mix is what you get from the past pastpositive gives you roots . you connect your family , identity and your self .	所以 , 最理想的暫時性混合是你從過去的正面積得到的 , 給予你根源 。 你將你的家人、身份和自我連結起來 。
what you get from the future is wings to soar to new destinations , new challenges .	從未來你會從翅膀到耳朵 , 到達新的目的地 , 新的挑戰 。
what you get from the present hedonism is the energy , the energy to explore yourself , places , people , sensuality .	你從現在的享樂主義得到的 , 是探索你自己、地方、人、感性的能量 。
any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives .	任何時間來看 , 在過剩的情況下 , 負面的程度都比正面的多 。
what do futures sacrifice for success ?	未來會為了成功而犧牲什麼 ?
they sacrifice family time . they sacrifice friend time .	他們犧牲家庭時間 , 犧牲朋友的時間 。
they sacrifice fun time . they sacrifice personal indulgence .	犧牲好玩的時光 , 犧牲個人的寬恕 。
they sacrifice hobbies . and they sacrifice sleep . so it affects their health .	他們犧牲了嗜好 , 犧牲了睡眠 , 影響了他們的健康 。
and they live for work , achievement and control .	他們為了工作、成就和控制而活 。
i'm sure that resonates with some of the tedsters .	我肯定會和一些tedster們產生共鳴 。
and it resonated for me . i grew up as a poor kid in the south bronx ghetto , a sicilian family everyone lived in the past and present .	這讓我有所共鳴 。 我在南布朗克斯貧民區長大 , 一個西里島家庭 , 大家都住在過去和現在 。
i'm here as a futureoriented person who went over the top , who did all these sacrifices because teachers intervened , and made me future oriented .	我來這裡是一位未來導向的人 , 他在頂端 , 做了這些犧牲 , 因為老師介入了 , 讓我成為未來的方向 。
told me don't eat that marshmallow , because if you wait you're going to get two of them , until i learned to balance out .	告訴我不要吃那顆棉花糖 , 因為如果你等著你拿到兩顆棉花 , 直到我學會了平衡 。
i've added presenthedonism , i've added a focus on the pastpositive , so , at 76 years old , i am more energetic than ever , more productive , and i'm happier than i have ever been .	我加上了 " 服從主義 " , 我把焦點放在 " 正面主義 " , 所以 , 在76歲的時候 , 我比以往更有活力 , 更有生產力 , 而且我比以往更開心 。
i just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems: changing the dropout rates of school kids , combating addictions , enhancing teen health , curing vets' ptsd with time metaphors getting miracle cures promoting sustainability and conservation , reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50percent drop out rate , altering appeals to suicidal terrorists , and modifying family conflicts as timezone clashes .	我只是想說 , 我們把這個應用在許多世界問題上:改變輟學率 , 化解成癮率 , 增強青少年健康 , 用時間隱喻來治療退伍軍人的創傷後壓力症候群 , 來促進永續性和保育 , 減少身體康復率 , 在那裡 , 有50%的退出率 , 改變了恐怖分子的自殺傾向 , 改變了家庭衝突的時間 。
so i want to end by saying: many of life's puzzles can be solved by understanding your time perspective and that of others .	所以我想以此作結:生命的謎題可以藉由理解你的時間觀點和他人的觀點來解開 。
and the idea is so simple , so obvious , but i think the consequences are really profound .	這個想法很簡單 , 顯而易見 , 但我認為後果是很深刻的 。
how many of today's headlines will matter in 100 years ? 1000 ? kirk citron's " long news " project collects stories that not only matter today , but will resonate for decades even centuries to come . at ted2010 , he highlights recent headlines with the potential to shape our future .	在一百年內 , 現今的頭條新聞會有多少人很重要 ? 1000年 ? 柯克特朗的《長期新聞》專案計畫收集到的新聞 , 不僅僅是現今的新聞 , 還會在數十年間產生共鳴 。 在ted2010年 , 他強調了近期的頭條新聞 , 用有潛在的潛力來塑造我們的未來 。
future , global issues , media , news , science	未來、全球議題、媒體、新聞、科學 。
kirk citron: and now , the real news	kirkcitron:現在則是真正的新聞 。
we are drowning in news .	我們淹沒在新聞裡 。
reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year .	光是路透社的人 , 一年就有三百五十萬則新聞 。
that's just one source .	這只是一個來源 。
my question is: how many of those stories are actually going to matter in the long run ?	我的問題是:在長期來看 , 那些故事有多少才是重要的 ?
that's the idea behind the long news .	這就是長期新聞背後的想法 。
it's a project by the long now foundation , which was founded by tedsters including kevin kelly and stewart brand .	這個計畫是長久以來的 , 由tedsters所創立 , 包括凱文凱利和史都華特•布蘭德 。
and what we're looking for is news stories that might still matter 50 or 100 or 10 , 000 years from now .	我們在尋找的新聞報導 , 可能在未來的50、100 , 000年 , 仍然很重要 。
and when you look at the news through that filter , a lot falls by the wayside .	當你透過篩選器看新聞時 , 很多東西會從旁邊掉下來 。
to take the top stories from the a . p . this last year , is this going to matter in a decade ?	以去年p.上個故事為例 , 這在十年內會有什麼影響嗎 ?
is this going to matter in 50 or 100 years ?	這在50或100年後會有什麼影響嗎 ?
okay , that was kind of cool .	好吧 , 還蠻酷的 。
but the top story of this past year was the economy , and i'm just betting that , sooner or later , this particular recession is going to be old news .	但去年的頭條是經濟狀況 , 我敢打賭 , 遲早 , 這次的衰退將會是老消息 。
so , what kind of stories might make a difference for the future ?	所以 , 什麼樣的故事能為未來帶來改變 ?
well , let's take science .	嗯 , 以科學為例 。
someday , little robots will go through our bloodstreams fixing things .	有一天 , 小機器人會穿過我們的血流 , 來修復東西 。
that someday is already here if you're a mouse .	如果你是老鼠 , 那一天已經在這裡了 。
some recent stories: nanobees zap tumors with real bee venom ; they're sending genes into the brain ; a robot they built that can crawl through the human body .	一些最近的故事:奈米蜜蜂用真正的蜜蜂毒液 , 將基因送入大腦 ; 他們建造的一個可以爬過人體的機器人 。
what about resources ? how are we going to feed nine billion people ?	資源呢 ? 我們要如何餵飽九十億人 ?
we're having trouble feeding six billion today .	現今 , 餵飽60億人的糧食問題很嚴重 。
as we heard yesterday , there's over a billion people hungry .	如同我們昨天聽到的 , 有超過十億人挨餓 。
britain will starve without genetically modified crops .	英國在沒有修改作物的情況下會挨餓 。
bill gates , fortunately , has bet a billion on [agricultural] research .	幸運的是 , 比爾蓋茲已經投入了十億美元在農業研究上 。
what about global politics ?	那麼 , 全球政治呢 ?
the world's going to be very different when and if china sets the agenda , and they may .	當中國設立議程時 , 世界將會變得非常不同 , 而且他們有可能會 。
they've overtaken the u . s . as the world's biggest car market , they've overtaken germany as the largest exporter , and they've started doing dna tests on kids to choose their careers .	美國是世界上最大的汽車市場 , 他們超過德國作為最大的出口國 , 他們開始對兒童做dna測試 , 來選擇他們的職業生涯 。
we're finding all kinds of ways to push back the limits of what we know .	我們在尋找各種方法去推開已知的極限 。
some recent discoveries: there's an ant colony from argentina that has now spread to every continent but antarctica ; there's a selfdirected robot scientist that's made a discovery soon , science may no longer need us , and life may no longer need us either ; a microbe wakes up after 120 , 000 years .	最近有一些發現:阿根廷有一個蟻群 , 已經從阿根廷散播到每一個大陸 , 但南極洲 ; 有一個自我導向的機器人科學家 , 很快的發現 , 很快的 , 科學可能不再需要我們 , 生命也不再需要我們了 ; 一個微生物在120 , 000年後醒來 。
it seems that with or without us , life will go on .	似乎 , 有沒有我們 , 生命會繼續下去 。
but my pick for the top long news story of this past year was this one: water found on the moon .	但我過去一年的長期新聞中 , 選出了這個:在月球上 , 水找到了 。
makes it a lot easier to put a colony up there .	要把一個蟻群放在那裡容易多了 。
and if nasa doesn't do it , china might , or somebody in this room might write a big check .	如果美國太空總署不這樣做 , 中國可能會 , 或這個房間裡的某人可能會寫很大的支票 。
my point is this: in the long run , some news stories are more important than others .	我的重點是:長遠來看 , 有些新聞故事比其他新聞更重要 。
planetary scientist carolyn porco shows images from the cassini voyage to saturn , focusing on its largest moon , titan , and on frozen enceladus , which seems to shoot jets of ice .	行星科學家卡羅琳•帕爾科在土星航行時所展示的影像 , 焦點在它最大的衛星泰坦 , 以及冰凍的土衛二上 。
nasa , design , exploration , science , space , technology , universe , visualizations	nasa , 設計 , 探索 , 探索 , 科學 , 科技 , 科技 , 宇宙 , 視覺化 。
carolyn porco flies us to saturn	carolynporco飛向土星
in the next 18 minutes , i'm going to take you on a journey .	接下來的18分鐘 , 我要帶各位踏上一段旅程 。
and it's a journey that you and i have been on for many years now , and it began some 50 years ago , when humans first stepped off our planet .	這是一段旅程 , 你和我已經經歷了很多年了 , 50年前 , 人類第一次踏出地球 。
and in those 50 years , not only did we literally , physically set foot on the moon , but we have dispatched robotic spacecraft to all the planets all eight of them and we have landed on asteroids , we have rendezvoused with comets , and , at this point in time , we have a spacecraft on its way to pluto , the body formerly known as a planet .	在這50年裡 , 我們不但真的登上了月球 , 我們還把太空飛行器分散到所有八個行星上 , 我們在小行星上著陸 , 曾與彗星重聚 , 此時 , 我們有一艘太空飛行器 , 前所未有的星球 。
and all of these robotic missions are part of a bigger human journey: a voyage to understand something , to get a sense of our cosmic place , to understand something of our origins , and how earth , our planet , and we , living on it , came to be .	所有這些機械任務都是人類更大的旅程的一部分:一趟旅程 , 去了解事物 , 去了解我們的宇宙 , 去了解我們的起源 , 了解地球 , 我們的地球 , 和我們的生活方式 。
and of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this , there's saturn . and we have been to saturn before we visited saturn in the early 1980s but our investigations of saturn have become far more indepth in detail since the cassini spacecraft , traveling across interplanetary space for seven years , glided into orbit around saturn in the summer of 2004 , and became at that point the farthest robotic outpost that humanity had ever established around the sun .	在太陽系中的所有地方 , 我們可能會去尋找像這樣的問題的答案 , 土星 。 在1980年代初期 , 我們去過土星 , 已經去過土星了 , 但我們對土星的調查已經變得更深入 , 細節自卡西尼號太空船飛越過了星際空間七年 , 在2004年的夏天 , 登陸環繞地球運行的軌道 , 成為人類最遙遠的機械飛行器 。
now , the saturn system is a rich planetary system .	土星系統是豐富的行星系統 。
it offers mystery , scientific insight and obviously splendor beyond compare , and the investigation of this system has enormous cosmic reach .	它提供了神秘、科學的洞見 , 且顯然超越了比較 , 且對這個系統的調查有著巨大的進展 。
in fact , just studying the rings alone , we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies .	事實上 , 光是單獨研究光環 , 我們就能學到很多關於恆星和氣體的圓盤 , 我們稱之為 「 螺旋星系 」 。
and here's a beautiful picture of the andromeda nebula , which is our closest , largest spiral galaxy to the milky way .	這是一張andromedanebula美麗的照片 , 這是我們最接近的 , 也是銀河系中最大的螺旋星系 。
and then , here's a beautiful composite of the whirlpool galaxy , taken by the hubble space telescope .	接下來 , 這是由哈勃太空望遠鏡拍攝的美麗複合體 。
so the journey back to saturn is really part of and is also a metaphor for a much larger human voyage to understand the interconnectedness of everything around us , and also how humans fit into that picture .	所以 , 回到土星的旅程 , 其實是部分的 , 也是人類旅程的一個比喻 , 用來了解我們周遭事物的相互連結 , 以及人類如何融入這張照片 。
and it pains me that i can't tell you all that we have learned with cassini .	這讓我很痛苦 , 我無法告訴你們所有我們學過的卡西尼 。
i can't show you all the beautiful pictures that we've taken in the last two and a half years , because i simply don't have the time .	我無法向你們展示我們在過去兩年半拍攝的所有美麗照片 , 因為我沒有時間 。
so i'm going to concentrate on two of the most exciting stories that have emerged out of this major exploratory expedition that we are conducting around saturn , and have been for the past two and a half years .	所以 , 我要把焦點放在這次重大探險旅程中最令人興奮的兩件最令人興奮的故事 , 我們在土星上進行探險 , 已經持續了兩年半 。
saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons .	土星有著非常大且多樣化的衛星 。
they range in size from a few kilometers across to as big across as the u . s .	它們的大小範圍從幾公里寬到像美國一樣大 。
most of the beautiful pictures we've taken of saturn , in fact , show saturn in accompaniment with some of its moons . here's saturn with dione , and then , here's saturn showing the rings edgeon , showing you just how vertically thin they are , with the moon enceladus .	大部分我們拍攝的土星美麗照片 , 事實上 , 土星與它的衛星同行 。 這是土星與土星同行 。 這是土星和土星同行的 。 這是土星 , 展示了土衛六的光環 , 向你們展示它們是多麼的薄弱 , 由土衛二和土衛二 。
now , two of the 47 moons that saturn has are standouts .	現在 , 土星47顆衛星中有兩顆衛星是站著的 。
and those are titan and enceladus . titan is saturn's largest moon , and , until cassini had arrived there , was the largest single expanse of unexplored terrain that we had remaining in our solar system .	那些是土衛六土衛六和土衛二 。 泰坦是土星最大的衛星 , 直到卡西尼號到達那裡之前 , 我們在太陽系中最大的單獨的單獨地擴張地形 。
and it is a body that has long intrigued people who've watched the planets .	它的身體長久以來一直被觀察行星的人們吸引 。
it has a very large , thick atmosphere , and in fact , its surface environment was believed to be more like the environment we have here on the earth , or at least had in the past , than any other body in the solar system .	它的大氣層非常厚 , 事實上 , 它的表面環境被認為比較像地球上的環境 , 至少過去曾有過的太陽系中的任何其他屍體 。
its atmosphere is largely molecular nitrogen , like you are breathing here in this room , except that its atmosphere is suffused with simple organic materials like methane and propane and ethane .	它的大氣層主要是氮分子 , 就像你在這裡呼吸的氮氣 , 只是它的大氣層被簡單的有機物質所包圍 , 像是甲烷、丙烷 , 和乙烷 。
and these molecules high up in the atmosphere of titan get broken down , and their products join together to make haze particles .	泰坦大氣中的這些分子會被分解 , 它們的產品結合在一起 , 形成霧狀顆粒 。
this haze is ubiquitous . it's completely global and enveloping titan .	這種霧狀物無所不在 , 它是全球性且封閉的土衛六 。
and that's why you cannot see down to the surface with our eyes in the visible region of the spectrum .	這也就是為什麼我們不能用肉眼可見的光譜來看待這個表面 。
but these haze particles , it was surmised , before we got there with cassini , over billions and billions of years , gently drifted down to the surface and coated the surface in a thick organic sludge .	但在卡西尼號到達之前 , 數十億年來 , 這些霧狀顆粒緩慢地移向地表 , 覆蓋在厚厚的有機泥土中 。
so like the equivalent , the titan equivalent , of tar , or oil , or what we didn't know what .	所以 , 就像泰坦的泰坦 , 泰坦的油 , 或石油 , 或我們不知道什麼 。
but this is what we suspected . and these molecules , especially methane and ethane , can be liquids at the surface temperatures of titan .	但這是我們懷疑的 。 而這些分子 , 尤其是甲烷和乙烷 , 可以是泰坦的表面溫度的液體 。
and so it turns out that methane is to titan what water is to the earth .	結果發現 , 甲烷是泰坦水對地球的影響 。
it's a condensable in the atmosphere , and so recognizing this circumstance brought to the fore a whole world of bizarre possibilities . you can have methane clouds , ok , and above those clouds , you have this hundreds of kilometers of haze , which prevent any sunlight from getting to the surface .	它在大氣中是可以被凝聚的 , 所以 , 認識到這種情況 , 將它帶到前所未有的可能性 。 你可以有甲烷雲 , 在這些雲上方 , 有數百公里的霧狀物 , 可以防止任何陽光進入地表 。
the temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero fahrenheit .	地表的溫度是華氏零下350度 。
but despite that cold , you could have rain falling down on the surface of titan .	但 , 儘管很冷 , 土衛六上仍有大雨落下 。
and doing on titan what rain does on the earth: it carves gullies ; it forms rivers and cataracts ; it can create canyons ; it can pool in large basins and craters .	在土衛六上 , 降雨對地球造成的影響是:它會雕刻出石頭 ; 它會形成河流和白內障 ; 它會形成峽谷 ; 它可以在大盆地及大型的隕石坑中聚集 。
it can wash the sludge off high mountain peaks and hills , down into the lowlands . so stop and think for a minute .	它可以把泥土沖掉高山的山頂 , 沖到低地 。 所以停下來想一想 。
try to imagine what the surface of titan might look like .	試著想像土衛六的表面會是什麼樣子 。
it's dark . high noon on titan is as dark as deep earth twilight on the earth .	它是黑暗的 。 土衛六上的中午跟地球上的微弱地球一樣黑暗 。
it's cold , it's eerie , it's misty , it might be raining , and you might be standing on the shores of lake michigan brimming with paint thinner .	很冷、很怪 , 很迷霧 , 很有可能下雨 , 你可能就站在密西根湖邊 , 帶著油漆 。
that is the view that we had of the surface of titan before we got there with cassini , and i can tell you that what we have found on titan , though it is not the same in detail , is every bit as fascinating as that story is .	這是我們在卡西尼號到達之前所看到的土衛六表面 , 我可以告訴你 , 我們在泰坦身上發現的土衛六表面 , 雖然它的細節並不相同 , 但它的奧妙之處就如同故事一樣 。
and for us , it has been like the cassini people it has been like a jules verne adventure come true .	對我們來說 , 這就像是卡西尼人 , 一直以來 , 它就像是叢林凡爾納的冒險 。
as i said , it has a thick , extensive atmosphere .	如我先前所說 , 它有很厚的大氣層 。
this is a picture of titan , backlit by the sun , with the rings as a beautiful backdrop .	這是土衛六的照片 , 由太陽照亮 , 光環則是美麗的背景 。
and yet another moon there i don't even know which one it is . it's a very extensive atmosphere .	還有另一顆衛星 , 我甚至不知道是哪一顆衛星 。 它是非常廣大的大氣層 。
we have instruments on cassini which can see down to the surface through this atmosphere , and my camera system is one of them .	我們在卡西尼號上有儀器 , 可以透過大氣層看到海面 , 我的相機系統就是其中之一 。
and we have taken pictures like this .	我們拍了像這樣的照片 。
and what you see is bright and dark regions , and that's about as far as it got for us .	你所看到的是明亮而黑色的區域 , 差不多就是它為我們帶來的 。
it was so mystifying: we couldn't make out what we were seeing on titan .	這真是太神秘了:我們無法在泰坦看到我們所看到的 。
when you look closer at this region , you start to see things like sinuous channels we didn't know . you see a few round things .	當你靠近這個區域時 , 你會開始看到一些東西 , 像是seantchannels我們不知道的 。 你會看到一些圓形的東西 。
this , we later found out , is , in fact , a crater , but there are very few craters on the surface of titan , meaning it's a very young surface .	我們後來發現 , 這其實是一座坑洞 , 但土衛六表面上只有極少數的隕石坑 , 意思是說土衛六是個非常年輕的表面 。
and there are features that look tectonic .	有些特徵看起來像地殼構造 。
they look like they've been pulled apart .	他們看起來好像被拉開了 。
whenever you see anything linear on a planet , it means there's been a fracture , like a fault .	每當你看到行星上有線性的東西時 , 它就意味著有碎片 , 像斷了一樣 。
and so it's been tectonically altered .	所以它在地面上已經被改變了 。
but we couldn't make sense of our images , until , six months after we got into orbit , an event occurred that many have regarded as the highlight of cassini's investigation of titan .	但我們無法理解我們的影像 , 直到我們進入軌道六個月後 , 發生了一場事件 , 許多人都認為卡西尼的 「 土衛六調查 」 突出了 。
and that was the deployment of the huygens probe , the europeanbuilt huygens probe that cassini had carried for seven years across the solar system . we deployed it to the atmosphere of titan , it took two and a half hours to descend , and it landed on the surface .	這就是惠更斯號探測器的部署 , 歐洲的太空船號探測器 , 卡西尼號在整個太陽系內運行了七年 。 我們將它部署到土衛六的大氣層 , 花了兩個半小時才下降 , 降到地表上 。
and i just want to emphasize how significant an event this is .	我只想強調一下這個事件有多重要 。
this is a device of human making , and it landed in the outer solar system for the first time in human history .	這是一種人類製造的裝置 , 它在人類史上首次登陸在外太陽系中 。
it is so significant that , in my mind , this was an event that should have been celebrated with ticker tape parades in every city across the u . s . and europe , and sadly , that wasn't the case .	這實在太重要了 , 在我看來 , 這是一個活動 , 應該要在美國和歐洲各地的城市裡 , 都要用浮標錄音帶遊行慶祝 , 很遺憾 , 並不是如此 。
it was significant for another reason . this is an international mission , and this event was celebrated in europe , in germany , and the celebratory presentations were given in english accents , and american accents , and german accents , and french and italian and dutch accents .	這很重要的另一個原因 , 這是個國際性的使命 , 這個活動在歐洲、德國都慶祝 , 而慶祝的演講被用英語口音、美國口音 , 和德國口音 , 法語、義大利語和荷蘭口音 。
it was a moving demonstration of what the words " united nations " are supposed to mean: a true union of nations joined together in a colossal effort for good .	這是一場正在進行的演示 , 說明了 「 聯合國 」 應該要表達的意思:一個真正的國家團結在一起 , 共同努力進行著巨大的努力 。
and , in this case , it was a massive undertaking to explore a planet , and to come to understand a planetary system that , for all of human history , had been unreachable , and now humans had actually touched it .	在這個案例中 , 人類為了探索一個星球 , 為了理解一個星球 , 一個在人類歷史上 , 一直都無法達成的星球系統 , 而現在 , 人類已經觸及了它 。
so it was i mean , i'm getting goose bumps just talking about it .	所以 , 我的意思是 , 我在談論雞皮疙瘩 。
it was a tremendously emotional event , and it's something that i will personally never forget , and you shouldn't either .	那是個非常激動人心的活動 , 而且是我個人永遠不會忘記的 , 你也不該忘記的 。
but anyway , the probe took measurements of the atmosphere on the way down , and it also took panoramic pictures .	不管怎樣 , 探測器在大氣層下方進行測量 , 還拍了全景照片 。
and i can't tell you what it was like to see the first pictures of titan's surface from the probe . and this is what we saw .	我無法告訴各位 , 從探測器上看到泰坦的表面是怎樣的感覺 。 這是我們所看到的景象 。
and it was a shocker , because it was everything we wanted those other pictures taken from orbit to be .	那是很驚人的 , 因為那是我們想要其他的照片從軌道拍攝到的 。
it was an unambiguous pattern , a geological pattern .	這是一個明確的圖案 , 一個地質圖案 。
it's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids .	這種樹突排水模式的形成方式 , 只有液體的流動才能形成 。
and you can follow these channels and you can see how they all converge .	你可以沿著這些頻道走 , 你可以看到它們是如何融合在一起的 。
and they converge into this channel here , which drains into this region .	他們匯聚到這條通道中 , 流入這個區域 。
you are looking at a shoreline .	你看到的是一條海岸線 。
was this a shoreline of fluids ? we didn't know .	這是液體的海岸線嗎 ? 我們不知道 。
but this is somewhat of a shoreline .	但這是一條海岸線 。
this picture is taken at 16 kilometers .	這張照片是在16公里內拍的 。
this is the picture taken at eight kilometers , ok ? again , the shoreline .	這張照片是在8公里高的地方拍的 , 好嗎 ? 再一次 , 海岸線 。
okay , now , 16 kilometers , eight kilometers this is roughly an airline altitude .	好 , 現在 , 16公里 , 8公里--這大概是航空公司的高度 。
if you were going to take an airplane trip across the u . s . , you would be flying at these altitudes .	如果你要搭飛機橫越美國 , 你會飛到這些高度 。
so , this is the picture you would have at the window of titanian airlines as you fly across the surface of titan .	這是你在鐵達尼亞航空公司的窗口飛越土衛六地表的照片 。
and then finally , the probe came to rest on the surface , and i'm going to show you , ladies and gentlemen , the first picture ever taken from the surface of a moon in the outer solar system .	最後 , 探測器在地表上靜止下來 , 我要給你們看 , 各位先生女士 , 這是第一個從外太陽系月球表面拍攝的照片 。
and here is the horizon , ok ?	這是地平線 , 好嗎 ?
these are probably water ice pebbles , yes ?	這些很可能是水冰鵝卵石 , 對嗎 ?
and obviously , it landed in one of these flat , dark regions and it didn't sink out of sight . so it wasn't fluid that we landed in .	很顯然 , 它落在了其中一個平坦、黑暗的區域 , 看不到它的下沉 。 所以它並不是我們降落的液體 。
what the probe came down in was basically the titan equivalent of a mud flat .	基本上 , 探測器下降的位置等同於一片泥土平面 。
this is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane .	這是一片未整齊的土地 , 裡面滿是液態甲烷 。
and it's probably the case that this material has washed off the highlands of titan through these channels that we saw , and has drained over billions of years to fill in lowlying basins .	我們看到的這些通道中 , 這種材料已經被沖洗掉了土衛六的高地 , 經過數十億年的時間 , 流出了低窪的盆地 。
and that is what the huygens probe landed in .	這就是惠更斯號探測器著陸的地方 。
but still , there was no sign in our images , or even in the huygens' images , of any large , open bodies of fluids .	但仍然 , 我們的影像中沒有標誌 , 或甚至在惠更斯的影像中 , 任何大型、開放的液體 。
where were they ? it got even more puzzling when we found dunes .	它們在哪裡 ? 在我們發現沙丘時 , 更讓人困惑了 。
ok , so this is our movie of the equatorial region of titan , showing these dunes . these are dunes that are 100 meters tall , separated by a few kilometers , and they go on for miles and miles and miles .	好 , 這是我們電影中的泰坦區域的電影 , 展示這些沙丘 。 這些沙丘有100公尺高 , 被幾公里的沙丘分開 , 延續好幾英里的距離 。
there's hundreds , up to a 1 , 000 or 1 , 200 miles of dunes .	那裡有數百 , 高達一千或一千 , 200英里長的沙丘 。
this is the saharan desert of titan .	這是土衛六的撒哈拉沙漠
it's obviously a place which is very dry , or you wouldn't get dunes .	很顯然 , 它是個非常乾燥的地方 , 否則你不會得到沙丘 。
so again , it got puzzling that there were no bodies of fluid , until finally , we saw lakes in the polar regions .	所以 , 再一次 , 這也讓人困惑的是 , 沒有任何液體 , 直到最後 , 我們看到北極的湖泊 。
and there is a lake scene in the south polar region of titan .	在南極的極地帶有一個湖泊 。
it's about the size of lake ontario .	差不多跟安大略湖一樣大 。
and then , only a week and a half ago , we flew over the north pole of titan and found , again , we found a feature here the size of the caspian sea .	接著 , 一個禮拜半前 , 我們飛越了北極 , 發現了 , 同樣的 , 我們發現了加州海域大小的一個特徵 。
so it seems that the liquids , for some reason we don't understand , or during at least this season , are apparently at the poles of titan .	由於某些原因 , 我們不明白這些液體 , 或至少在這個季節 , 顯然是在泰坦的極地 。
and i think you would agree that we have found titan is a remarkable , mystical place . it's exotic , it's alien , but yet strangely earthlike , and having earthlike geological formations and a tremendous geographical diversity , and is a fascinating world whose only rival in the solar system for complexity and richness is the earth itself .	我想你們應該會同意 , 我們發現土衛六是一個神秘的地方 。 它很奇特 , 它很奇特 , 但卻很像地球 , 而且有著像地球一樣的地質結構 , 和非常驚人的地理多樣性 , 而且是一個非常迷人的世界 , 一個太陽系中唯一與複雜和豐富的對手的世界 , 就是地球本身 。
and so now we go onto enceladus . enceladus is a small moon , it's about a tenth the size of titan . and you can see it here next to england , just to show you the size . this is not meant to be a threat .	所以現在我們來到土衛二 。 土衛二是一個小衛星 , 大約是土衛六的第十個大小 。 你可以在英國旁邊看到它 , 只是讓你們看看它的大小 。 這不是威脅 。
and enceladus is very white , it's very bright , and its surface is obviously wrecked with fractures .	土衛二是非常白的 , 非常亮 , 它的表面顯然有裂痕 。
it is a very geologically active body .	它在地質上非常活躍 。
but the mother lode of discoveries on enceladus was found at the south pole and we're looking at the south pole here where we found this system of fractures .	但在土衛二上的發現大多是南極發現的 , 而我們現在看到的是南極 , 在這裡 , 我們發現了破裂的系統 。
and they're a different color because they're a different composition .	它們的顏色不同 , 因為它們的組成不同 。
they are coated . these fractures are coated with organic materials .	它們被覆蓋著 , 這些裂痕被有機物覆蓋著 。
moreover , this whole , entire region , the south polar region , has elevated temperatures . it's the hottest place on the planet , on the body .	此外 , 整個南極區 , 整個南極區域 , 溫度上升了 。 這是地球上最熱的地區 , 在身體上 。
that's as bizarre as finding that the antarctic on the earth is hotter than the tropics .	奇怪的是 , 地球上的南極洲比熱帶地區還熱 。
and then , when we took additional pictures , we discovered that from these fractures are issuing jets of fine , icy particles extending hundreds of miles into space .	接著 , 當我們拍了更多的照片 , 我們發現 , 從這些裂縫中 , 有著微弱的冰粒 , 延伸到太空中數百英里的距離 。
and when we colorcode this image , to bring out the faint light levels , we see that these jets feed a plume that , in fact , we see , in other images , goes thousands of miles into the space above enceladus .	當我們把這張圖譜編碼出來 , 呈現出微弱的光度 , 我們會看到這些噴射噴射流的光度 , 事實上 , 在其他影像中 , 我們可以看到 , 在土衛二上方數千英里的太空中 。
my team and i have examined images like this , and like this one , and have thought about the other results from cassini .	我和我的團隊研究了像這樣的影像 , 像這張 , 思考了卡西尼的其他結果 。
and we have arrived at the conclusion that these jets may be erupting from pockets of liquid water under the surface of enceladus .	我們得到的結論是這些噴射流可能是從土衛六地表下的液態水口噴發出來的 。
so we have , possibly , liquid water , organic materials and excess heat .	所以 , 我們有可能有液態水、有機材料 , 以及過多的熱量 。
in other words , we have possibly stumbled upon the holy grail of modern day planetary exploration , or in other words , an environment that is potentially suitable for living organisms .	換句話說 , 我們很有可能在現代行星探索的聖杯上發現了 , 換句話說 , 我們的環境很有可能適合生物生存的生物 。
and i don't think i need to tell you that the discovery of life elsewhere in our solar system , whether it be on enceladus or elsewhere , would have enormous cultural and scientific implications .	我想我不需要告訴各位 , 在我們的太陽系中 , 其他生命的發現 , 不論是在土衛二上或其他地方 , 都會有龐大的文化和科學上的意涵 。
because if we could demonstrate that genesis had occurred not once , but twice , independently , in our solar system , then that means , by inference , it has occurred a staggering number of times throughout the universe and its 13 . 7 billion year history .	因為如果我們能證明創世紀的發生不止一次 , 而是在我們的太陽系中 , 獨立發生了兩次 , 那就表示 , 根據推斷 , 它在整個宇宙中發生了驚人的次數 , 以及它的137億年歷史 。
right now , earth is the only planet still that we know is teeming with life .	現在 , 地球是我們所知唯一還充滿生命的行星 。
it is precious , it is unique , it is still , so far , the only home we've ever known .	它很珍貴 , 它是獨一無二的 , 到目前為止 , 它仍然是我們唯一的家 。
and if any of you were alert and coherent during the 1960s and we'd forgive you , if you weren't , ok you would remember this very famous picture taken by the apollo 8 astronauts in 1968 .	如果你們當中有人在1960年代有警戒和連貫性 , 我們會原諒你們 , 如果你們沒有 , ok , 你們會記得1968年由阿波羅八號太空人拍下的這張非常有名的照片 。
it was the first time that earth was imaged from space , and it had an enormous impact on our sense of place in the universe , and our sense of responsibility for the protection of our own planet .	這是第一次從太空拍攝地球 , 它對我們在宇宙中的位置產生了巨大的衝擊 , 以及我們對於地球保護的責任感 。
well , we on cassini have taken an equivalent first , a picture that no human eye has ever seen before .	我們在卡西尼號拍的第一張相同的照片 , 一張前所未見的照片 。
it is a total eclipse of the sun , seen from the other side of saturn .	它是太陽的全蝕 , 從土星的另一側看到的 。
and in this impossibly beautiful picture , you see the main rings backlit by the sun , you see the refracted image of the sun and you see this ring created , in fact , by the exhalations of enceladus .	在這張令人難以置信的美麗照片中 , 你會看到太陽背光的主光環 , 你會看到太陽的折射影像 , 事實上 , 這個光環是由土衛二的延伸所造成 。
but as if that weren't brilliant enough , we can spot , in this beautiful image , sight of our own planet , cradled in the arms of saturn's rings .	但如果這還不夠聰明 , 我們可以從這張美麗的圖片中發現 , 我們自己的星球 , 在土星的光環的臂彎中 , 搖晃著 。
now , there is something deeply moving about seeing ourselves from afar , and capturing the sight of our little , blueocean planet in the skies of other worlds .	現在 , 看到我們自己從遠處 , 捕捉到我們在其他星球的天空中所見到的景象 , 深深移動著 。
and that , and the perspective of ourselves that we gain from that , may be , in the end , the finest reward that we earn from this journey of discovery that started half a century ago .	而那 , 和我們從中得到的觀點 , 可能是 , 最終 , 我們從這個發現的旅程中得到的最好的獎勵 , 大約是半個世紀前的 。
as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped . this slows the delivery of aid after a disaster and hides the economic potential of unused lands and unknown roads . in this short talk , google's lalitesh katragadda demos map maker , a group mapmaking tool that people around the globe are using to map their world .	到2005年 , 全球僅有15%的人被繪製出地圖 。 這減緩了災難後的援助 , 隱藏了未使用土地和未知的道路的經濟潛力 。 在這個簡短的演講中 , 谷歌已故的卡達示範者 , 全球各地的人們使用地圖繪製他們的世界 。
collaboration , design , map , technology	合作、設計、地圖、技術 。
lalitesh katragadda: making maps to fight disaster , build economies	最近 , 卡拉格達:對抗災難的地圖 , 建造經濟 。
in 2008 , cyclone nargis devastated myanmar .	2008年 , 颶風納格毀滅了緬甸人 。
millions of people were in severe need of help .	數百萬人急需協助 。
the u . n . wanted to rush people and supplies to the area .	聯合國想要把人和供應給給趕到這個地區 。
but there were no maps , no maps of roads , no maps showing hospitals , no way for help to reach the cyclone victims .	但沒有地圖 , 沒有道路地圖 , 沒有地圖顯示醫院 , 沒有辦法幫助惡性循環受害者 。
when we look at a map of los angeles or london , it is hard to believe that as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geocodable level of detail .	當我們看到洛杉磯或倫敦的地圖時 , 很難相信在2005年 , 世界上只有15%的人被地圖化的細節所繪製出來 。
the u . n . ran headfirst into a problem that the majority of the world's populous faces: not having detailed maps .	聯合國的跑頭證實了世界上大部分人口臉孔的問題:沒有詳細的地圖 。
but help was coming .	但救命來了 。
at google , 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120 , 000 kilometers of roads , 3 , 000 hospitals , logistics and relief points .	在谷歌 , 40名志工用新軟體繪製出120 , 000公里的道路 , 3000間醫院 , 物流和救援點 。
and it took them four days .	他們花了四天的時間 。
the new software they used ? google mapmaker .	他們使用的新軟體 ? googlemapmaker 。
google mapmaker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally .	googlemapmaker是一項技術 , 讓每個人可以在當地地圖繪製出我們已知的資訊 。
people have used this software to map everything from roads to rivers , from schools to local businesses , and video stores to the corner store .	人們用這個軟體來繪製所有東西 , 從道路到河流、學校、當地企業 , 及影片商店 , 到角落商店 。
nobel prize nominee hernando de soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land .	諾貝爾獎提名人赫爾•赫南多•德索托了解到 , 對大部分發展中國家而言 , 經濟利益的關鍵在於要利用大量的未獲利的土地 。
for example , a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapitalized in india alone .	舉例來說 , 光在印度 , 就有一兆美元的房地產尚未被記載 。
in the last year alone , thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information , and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable .	光是去年 , 170個國家的數千名使用者就已經繪製出了數百萬筆資訊 , 創造出了一幅從未想過的細節地圖 。
and this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere .	這種現象的發生 , 是因為有熱情的使用者無所不在 。
let's look at some of the maps being created by users right now .	現在我們來看看使用者製作的地圖 。
so , as we speak , people are mapping the world in these 170 countries .	所以 , 在我們說話的同時 , 在這170個國家中 , 人們在繪製世界地圖 。
you can see bridget in africa who just mapped a road in senegal .	你可以看到在非洲的橋樑剛在塞內加爾繪製了一條道路 。
and , closer to home , chalua , an n . g . road in bangalore .	離家更近 , 查盧亞 , 班加羅爾的g路線 。
this is the result of computational geometry , gesture recognition , and machine learning .	這是計算幾何學、手勢識別和機器學習的結果 。
this is a victory of thousands of users , in hundreds of cities , one user , one edit at a time .	這是成千上萬使用者的勝利 , 在數百個城市 , 一個使用者 , 一個編輯 。
this is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet .	這是對70%未被開發的星球的邀請 。
welcome to the new world .	歡迎來到新世界 。
in 2003 , the palestinian village of budrus mounted a 10monthlong nonviolent protest to stop a barrier being built across their olive groves . did you hear about it ? didn't think so . brazilian filmmaker julia bacha asks why we only pay attention to violence in the israelpalestine conflict and not to the nonviolent leaders who may one day bring peace .	在2003年 , 布德魯斯的巴勒斯坦村 , 建設了一個長達10個月的非暴力抗議活動 , 去阻止他們在橄欖車上蓋一座障礙 。 你聽說了嗎 ? 沒有這麼想 。 巴西的電影製片人julicha問為什麼我們只關注以色列衝突中的暴力 , 而不是那些非暴力領袖 , 那些有一天可能會帶來和平的非暴力領袖 。
arts , communication , compassion , entertainment , film , peace , violence , war	藝術、溝通、同情心、娛樂、電影、和平、戰爭、戰爭 。
julia bacha: pay attention to nonviolence	juliabacha:請注意非暴力行為 。
for the last 8 years , i have dedicated my life to documenting the work of israelis and palestinians who are trying to end the conflict using peaceful means .	過去八年來 , 我致力於記錄以色列人和巴勒斯坦人試圖用和平手段來結束衝突的人們 。
when i travel with my work across europe and the united states , one question always comes up: where is the palestinian gandhi ?	當我在歐洲和美國旅行時 , 總是有一個問題:巴勒斯坦的甘地在哪裡 ?
why aren't palestinians using nonviolent resistance ?	為什麼巴勒斯坦人不使用非暴力抗爭 ?
the challenge i face when i hear this question is that often i have just returned from the middle east where i spent my time filming dozens of palestinians who are using nonviolence to defend their lands and water resources from israeli soldiers and settlers .	當我聽到這個問題時 , 我面臨的挑戰是 , 我常常從中東回到中東 , 在那裡 , 我拍攝了數十位巴勒斯坦人 , 他們用非暴力的方式來捍衛他們的土地和水資源 , 不論是以色列士兵或移民者 。
these leaders are trying to forge a massive national nonviolent movement to end the occupation and build peace in the region .	這些領導者正試著要打造一個龐大的全國非暴力運動 , 來終結該區域的佔領 , 並建立和平 。
yet , most of you have probably never heard about them .	但 , 在座大部分人可能從來沒有聽過他們 。
this divide between what's happening on the ground and perceptions abroad is one of the key reasons why we don't have yet a palestinian peaceful resistance movement that has been successful .	國外發生的事和感知之間的差別 , 是我們還沒有的主要原因之一 , 巴勒斯坦和平抗爭運動已經成功了 。
so i'm here today to talk about the power of attention , the power of your attention , and the emergence and development of nonviolent movements in the west bank , gaza and elsewhere but today , my case study is going to be palestine .	所以今天我來這裡是要談談注意力的力量 , 你的注意力的力量 , 以及在西岸、加薩 , 和其他地方的非暴力運動的興起和發展 , 但今天 , 我的個案是巴勒斯坦 。
i believe that what's mostly missing for nonviolence to grow is not for palestinians to start adopting nonviolence , but for us to start paying attention to those who already are .	我相信 , 最缺少非暴力成長的 , 並不是巴勒斯坦人開始採用非暴力手段 , 而是我們開始關注那些已經擁有的人們 。
allow me to illustrate this point by taking you to this village called budrus .	讓我用布德鲁斯村的布德鲁斯村來說明這個點 。
about seven years ago , they faced extinction , because israel announced it would build a separation barrier , and part of this barrier would be built on top of the village .	大約七年前 , 他們面臨絕種 , 因為以色列宣布要建造出一道分離的障礙 , 部分的障礙會建在村落上 。
they would lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded , so they would lose free access to the rest of the west bank .	他們會失去40%的土地 , 被包圍 , 所以他們會失去自由地進入西岸的其他人 。
through inspired local leadership , they launched a peaceful resistance campaign to stop that from happening .	透過當地的領導力 , 他們發動了和平抗爭活動 , 來阻止這種事發生 。
let me show you some brief clips , so you have a sense for what that actually looked like on the ground .	讓我給你們看一些簡短的片段 , 你們可以明白地面上真正的樣子 。
palestinian woman: we were told the wall would separate palestine from israel .	巴勒斯坦女性:我們被告知這堵牆將分離巴勒斯坦和以色列 。
here in budrus , we realized the wall would steal our land .	在布德鲁斯村 , 我們發現這堵牆會偷走我們的土地 。
israeli man: the fence has , in fact , created a solution to terror .	以色列男子:事實上 , 柵欄已經解決了恐怖問題 。
man: today you're invited to a peaceful march .	男人:今天你被邀請去和平的遊行 。
you are joined by dozens of your israeli brothers and sisters .	你被數十位以色列兄弟姐妹加入 。
israeli activist: nothing scares the army more than nonviolent opposition .	以色列抗議人士:沒有什麼比非暴力抗爭更嚇人了 。
woman: we saw the men trying to push the soldiers , but none of them could do that .	女人:我們看到男人試圖推動士兵 , 但他們都不能這樣做 。
but i think the girls could do it .	但我認為女孩們可以做到 。
fatah party member: we must empty our minds of traditional thinking .	法塔赫黨員:我們必須清空我們傳統的想法 。
hamas party member: we were in complete harmony , and we wanted to spread it to all of palestine .	哈馬斯政黨成員:我們在完全和諧的狀態下 , 想要把它散播到巴勒斯坦 。
chanting: one united nation .	口號:一個聯合國 。
fatah , hamas and the popular front !	法塔赫 , 哈馬斯和受歡迎的前線 !
news anchor: the clashes over the fence continue .	主持人:圍籬的衝突持續著 。
reporter: israeli border police were sent to disperse the crowd .	記者:以色列邊境警察被派去散播群眾 。
they were allowed to use any force necessary .	他們被允許使用任何必要的力量 。
man: these are live bullets .	男人:這些是活的子彈 。
it's like fallujah . shooting everywhere .	就像法魯吉 , 到處開槍 。
israeli activist: i was sure we were all going to die .	以色列抗議人士:我確信我們都會死去 。
but there were others around me who weren't even cowering .	但 , 我身邊有其他人甚至不用牛奶 。
israeli soldier: a nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear] .	以色列士兵:非暴力抗爭不會阻止伊斯蘭教徒 。
protester: this is a peaceful march .	抗議者:這是和平的遊行 。
there is no need to use violence .	不需要使用暴力 。
chanting: we can do it ! we can do it !	口號聲:我們可以做到 ! 我們可以做到 !
julia bacha: when i first heard about the story of budrus , i was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago , in 2003 .	朱莉亞•巴查查:當我第一次聽到布德鲁斯村的故事時 , 我很驚訝國際媒體無法報導七年前發生的非凡事件 。
what was even more surprising was the fact that budrus was successful .	更讓人驚訝的是布德鲁斯村成功了 。
the residents , after 10 months of peaceful resistance , convinced the israeli government to move the route of the barrier off their lands and to the green line , which is the internationally recognized boundary between israel and the palestinian territories .	居民 , 經過了10個月的和平抗爭 , 說服了以色列政府 , 將他們的土地和綠線的路線移開 , 也就是以色列和巴勒斯坦領土之間的國際認可界線 。
the resistance in budrus has since spread to villages across the west bank and to palestinian neighborhoods in jerusalem .	布德鲁斯村的抗藥性自從傳到西岸的村落 , 到耶路撒冷的巴勒斯坦社區 。
yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories .	但媒體仍然在這些故事中保持沉默
this silence carries profound consequences for the likelihood that nonviolence can grow , or even survive , in palestine .	這種沉默對非暴力的可能性造成很深遠的影響 , 甚至在巴勒斯坦成長或甚至存活的可能性 。
violent resistance and nonviolent resistance share one very important thing in common ; they are both a form of theater seeking an audience to their cause .	暴力抗爭和非暴力抗爭有一項非常重要的共通點 , 兩者都是一種劇場的形式 , 尋求觀眾的理想 。
if violent actors are the only ones constantly getting frontpage covers and attracting international attention to the palestinian issue , it becomes very hard for nonviolent leaders to make the case to their communities that civil disobedience is a viable option in addressing their plight .	如果暴力演員是唯一不斷地登上頭版並吸引國際關注巴勒斯坦的問題 , 對非暴力領袖來說 , 對他們的社區來說 , 公民不服從是非常困難的 , 對他們來說 , 公民不服從是可以解決困境的選項 。
the power of attention is probably going to come as no surprise to the parents in the room .	關注的力量可能對在座的父母一點都不意外 。
the surest way to make your child throw increasingly louder tantrums is by giving him attention the first time he throws a fit .	讓你的孩子越來越大聲丟棄的方法 , 就是讓他第一次把注意力丟出去 。
the tantrum will become what childhood psychologists call a functional behavior , since the child has learned that he can get parental attention out of it .	反覆思考會變成童年心理學家所謂的功能性行為 , 因為孩子已經知道 , 他可以從中得到父母的關注 。
parents can incentivize or disincentivize behavior simply by giving or withdrawing attention to their children .	父母可以透過給予或減低孩子的注意力 , 來鼓勵或抑制他們的行為 。
but that's true for adults too .	但對成年人來說也是如此 。
in fact , the behavior of entire communities and countries can be influenced , depending on where the international community chooses to focus its attention .	事實上 , 整個社區和國家的行為會受到影響 , 根據國際社群選擇把注意力放在哪裡 。
i believe that at the core of ending the conflict in the middle east and bringing peace is for us to transform nonviolence into a functional behavior by giving a lot more attention to the nonviolent leaders on the ground today .	我相信 , 終結中東衝突的核心 , 將和平帶給我們 , 就是要把非暴力的行為轉變成功能性行為 , 做法就是讓大家更注意現今的非暴力領導人 。
in the course of taking my film to villages in the west bank , in gaza and in east jerusalem , i have seen the impact that even one documentary film can have in influencing the transformation .	在我拍攝電影到西岸、加薩、東耶路撒冷村莊的村落中 , 我見識到連一部紀錄片都可以影響整個轉變 。
in a village called wallajeh , which sits very close to jerusalem , the community was facing a very similar plight to budrus .	在一個叫做瓦拉耶的村莊 , 非常靠近耶路撒冷的村落 , 這個村落正面臨著和布德鲁斯村非常相似的困境 。
they were going to be surrounded , lose a lot of their lands and not have freedom of access , either to the west bank or jerusalem .	他們會被包圍 , 失去了很多土地 , 也失去了自由 , 不論是西岸或耶路撒冷 。
they had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention .	他們已經使用非暴力手段約兩年了 , 但自從沒有人注意到他們之後 , 他們就開始變得不知所措 。
so we organized a screening .	所以我們安排了篩選螢幕 。
a week later , they held the most wellattended and disciplined demonstration to date .	一週後 , 他們舉行了目前為止最熱門且有紀律的示威 。
the organizers say that the villagers , upon seeing the story of budrus documented in a film , felt that there were indeed people following what they were doing , that people cared .	組織者說 , 村民看到布德鲁斯村的故事在一部電影中 , 覺得確實有人在追蹤他們所做的事 , 人們在乎 。
so they kept on going .	所以他們繼續前進 。
on the israeli side , there is a new peace movement called solidariot , which means solidarity in hebrew .	在以色列這一邊 , 有一場新的和平運動 , 叫做索里達里德羅 , 意思是希伯來語中的團結 。
the leaders of this movement have been using budrus as one of their primary recruiting tools .	這項運動的領導者把布德鲁斯村當作主要的招募工具 。
they report that israelis who had never been active before , upon seeing the film , understand the power of nonviolence and start joining their activities .	他們報告說 , 以色列人以前從來沒有活過來 , 看過電影 , 了解非暴力的力量 , 並開始加入他們的活動 。
the examples of wallajeh and the solidariot movement show that even a smallbudget independent film can play a role in transforming nonviolence into a functional behavior .	瓦拉杰和索里達里德拉克運動的例子顯示 , 即使是一部小型預算獨立電影也可以扮演一個角色 , 將非暴力行為轉化為功能性行為 。
now imagine the power that big media players could have if they started covering the weekly nonviolent demonstrations happening in villages like bil'in , ni'lin , wallajeh , in jerusalem neighborhoods like sheikh jarrah and silwan the nonviolent leaders would become more visible , valued and effective in their work .	現在 , 想像一下 , 如果大型媒體玩家開始報導每週發生的非暴力的示威 , 在像bil'in , ni'lin , 瓦拉吉 , 在耶路撒冷 , 像謝赫•賈拉 , 和絲林這些非暴力領袖會變得更明顯 , 更有價值 , 更有效率 。
i believe that the most important thing is to understand that if we don't pay attention to these efforts , they are invisible , and it's as if they never happened .	我相信 , 最重要的是要了解 , 如果我們不注意這些努力 , 它們就隱形了 , 就好像從來沒有發生過一樣 。
but i have seen first hand that if we do , they will multiply .	但是我親眼見到如果我們這麼做 , 他們會倍增 。
if they multiply , their influence will grow in the overall israelipalestinian conflict .	如果他們倍增 , 他們的影響力會在以巴衝突中成長 。
and theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation .	他們的影響力終於可以解開局面 。
these leaders have proven that nonviolence works in places like budrus .	這些領導人證明了非暴力行為在布德鲁斯村這樣的地方是可行的 。
let's give them attention so they can prove it works everywhere .	咱們把注意力交給他們 , 讓他們可以證明它無所不在 。
simon sinek has a simple but powerful model for inspirational leadership all starting with a golden circle and the question " why ? " his examples include apple , martin luther king , and the wright brothers . . .	西蒙•薩克有個簡單但強大的模式 , 能鼓舞人心的領導力 , 一切都從金色圓圈開始 , 還有 「 為什麼 ? 」 他的例子包括蘋果 , 馬丁•路德金 , 和萊特兄弟......
bullseye , business , entrepreneur , leadership , sales , selling , success	野牛、商業、企業家、領導、銷售、銷售、成功 。
simon sinek: how great leaders inspire action	西蒙•薩克:偉大的領導者如何鼓舞大家採取行動 。
how do you explain when things don't go as we assume ?	你如何解釋當事情不如我們預想的那樣 ?
or better , how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions ?	或更棒的是 , 你要如何解釋當其他人能夠達成似乎違反所有假設的事物時 ?
for example: why is apple so innovative ?	舉例來說:為什麼蘋果電腦這麼創新 ?
year after year , after year , after year , they're more innovative than all their competition .	年復一年 , 年復一年 , 比他們所有的競爭對手都還要創新 。
and yet , they're just a computer company .	然而 , 他們只是一間電腦公司 。
they're just like everyone else .	他們就像其他所有人一樣 。
they have the same access to the same talent , the same agencies , the same consultants , the same media .	他們擁有相同的才華 , 相同的機構 , 一樣的顧問 , 一樣的媒體 。
then why is it that they seem to have something different ?	為什麼他們似乎有所不同 ?
why is it that martin luther king led the civil rights movement ?	為什麼馬丁路德金主導民權運動 ?
he wasn't the only man who suffered in a precivil rights america , and he certainly wasn't the only great orator of the day .	他不是唯一一個在美國遭受過預防權利的人 , 他肯定不是當時最偉大的演說家 。
and why is it that the wright brothers were able to figure out controlled , powered man flight when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified , better funded . . .	為什麼萊特兄弟能夠在有其他團隊更有資格、更好的資金時 , 想出控制權、有動力的人飛行 ,
and they didn't achieve powered man flight , and the wright brothers beat them to it .	他們沒有實現有力的飛行員 , 萊特兄弟打敗他們 。
there's something else at play here .	這裡還有其他東西 。
about three and a half years ago i made a discovery .	大約三年半前 , 我發現了一件事 。
and this discovery profoundly changed my view on how i thought the world worked , and it even profoundly changed the way in which i operate in it .	這個發現深深改變了我對世界運作方式的看法 , 甚至深深改變了我運作的方式 。
as it turns out , there's a pattern .	結果發現 , 有一個模式 。
as it turns out , all the great and inspiring leaders and organizations in the world whether it's apple or martin luther king or the wright brothers they all think , act and communicate the exact same way .	結果發現 , 世界上所有的偉大、鼓舞人心的領導人和組織 , 不論是蘋果電腦、馬丁路德金 , 或他們所想的萊特兄弟 , 採取行動和溝通 , 都是一樣的 。
and it's the complete opposite to everyone else .	這完全相反 , 其他人也一樣 。
all i did was codify it , and it's probably the world's simplest idea .	我所做的就是編寫它 , 它可能是世界上最簡單的想法 。
i call it the golden circle .	我稱它為黃金圓 。
why ? how ? what ?	為什麼 ? 如何 ? 什麼 ?
this little idea explains why some organizations and some leaders are able to inspire where others aren't .	這個小小的點子解釋了為什麼有些組織和一些領袖能夠啟發其他人不在的地方 。
let me define the terms really quickly .	讓我很快地定義這個詞 。
every single person , every single organization on the planet knows what they do , 100 percent .	每一個人 , 地球上的每一個組織都知道他們的行為 , 百分之百 。
some know how they do it , whether you call it your differentiated value proposition or your proprietary process or your usp .	有些人知道他們怎麼辦到的 , 不管你怎麼稱呼它為你分辨的價值主張、或你的私人過程或你的usp 。
but very , very few people or organizations know why they do what they do .	但很少人或機構知道他們為什麼要做這些事 。
and by " why " i don't mean " to make a profit . "	所謂的 「 為什麼 」 指的不是 「 賺錢 」 。
that's a result . it's always a result .	這是結果 , 總是結果 。
by " why , " i mean: what's your purpose ?	所謂 「 為什麼 」 的意思是:你的目的是什麼 ?
what's your cause ? what's your belief ?	你的目標是什麼 ? 你的信念是什麼 ?
why does your organization exist ?	為什麼你的組織存在 ?
why do you get out of bed in the morning ?	為什麼你早上要起床 ?
and why should anyone care ?	為什麼有人要在乎 ?
well , as a result , the way we think , the way we act , the way we communicate is from the outside in .	結果就是 , 我們的思考方式 , 我們的行為方式 , 我們溝通的方式是從外面來的 。
it's obvious . we go from the clearest thing to the fuzziest thing .	很明顯的 , 我們從最清楚的事物變成最模糊的 。
but the inspired leaders and the inspired organizations regardless of their size , regardless of their industry all think , act and communicate from the inside out .	但 , 鼓舞人心的領導者 , 以及鼓舞人心的組織 , 不論它們的大小 , 不論它們的產業全都在思考、行動和溝通 。
let me give you an example .	讓我舉個例子 。
i use apple because they're easy to understand and everybody gets it .	我會用蘋果 , 因為它們很容易懂 , 每個人都懂 。
if apple were like everyone else , a marketing message from them might sound like this: " we make great computers .	如果蘋果電腦跟其他人一樣 , 他們的行銷訊息可能聽起來會像這樣: 「 我們製造出很棒的電腦 。
they're beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	它們的設計很漂亮 , 很簡單 , 很容易使用 , 且很友善 。
want to buy one ? " " meh . "	想要買一台嗎 ? " 我 "
and that's how most of us communicate .	這就是我們大多數人溝通的方式 。
that's how most marketing is done , that's how most sales is done and that's how most of us communicate interpersonally .	這就是多數行銷的方法 , 多數銷售都是這樣做的 , 多數人與人之間的交流就是這樣 。
we say what we do , we say how we're different or how we're better and we expect some sort of a behavior , a purchase , a vote , something like that .	我們說我們所做的事 , 我們說我們如何不同 , 說我們如何好 , 期待某種行為 , 購買 , 投票 , 諸如此類 。
here's our new law firm: we have the best lawyers with the biggest clients , we always perform for our clients who do business with us .	這是我們的新法律事務所:我們有最好的律師和最大的客戶 , 我們總是為和我們做生意的客戶做生意的表演 。
here's our new car: it gets great gas mileage , it has leather seats , buy our car .	這是我們的新車 , 它有很棒的汽油里程 , 有皮革座椅 , 買我們的車 。
here's how apple actually communicates .	這是蘋果電腦溝通的方式 。
" everything we do , we believe in challenging the status quo .	「 我們所做的一切 , 我們相信挑戰現狀 。
we believe in thinking differently .	我們相信用不同的方式思考 。
the way we challenge the status quo is by making our products beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	我們挑戰現狀的方式是 , 把我們的產品做得很漂亮 , 很簡單 , 很容易使用 , 且很友善 。
we just happen to make great computers .	我們剛好做了很棒的電腦 。
want to buy one ? "	想要買一台嗎 ? 」
totally different right ? you're ready to buy a computer from me .	完全不一樣的右邊 ? 你準備好向我買一台電腦 。
all i did was reverse the order of the information .	我所做的只是反轉資訊的順序 。
what it proves to us is that people don't buy what you do ; people buy why you do it .	這證明了人們不買你做什麼 ; 人們買你的為什麼 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼
this explains why every single person in this room is perfectly comfortable buying a computer from apple .	這解釋了為什麼在座的每一位都很自在從蘋果電腦買一台電腦 。
but we're also perfectly comfortable buying an mp3 player from apple , or a phone from apple , or a dvr from apple .	但我們也非常自在地買蘋果電腦的mp3播放器 , 或蘋果電腦的手機 , 或是蘋果電腦的dvr 。
but , as i said before , apple's just a computer company .	但 , 就像我之前說的 , 蘋果電腦只是一間電腦公司 。
there's nothing that distinguishes them structurally from any of their competitors .	沒有什麼能分辨出它們的結構性與其任何競爭者 。
their competitors are all equally qualified to make all of these products .	他們的競爭者都同樣有資格製造這些產品 。
in fact , they tried .	事實上 , 他們試過了 。
a few years ago , gateway came out with flat screen tvs .	幾年前 , 蓋茲公路上發佈了平面的電視節目 。
they're eminently qualified to make flat screen tvs .	他們很明顯有資格製作平面螢幕電視 。
they've been making flat screen monitors for years .	多年來 , 他們一直在製作平面螢幕監視器 。
dell came out with mp3 players and pdas , and they make great quality products , and they can make perfectly welldesigned products and nobody bought one .	戴爾發表了mp3播放器和pda , 他們做出了很棒的品質產品 , 他們可以做出完美的設計產品 , 沒有人買的 。
in fact , talking about it now , we can't even imagine buying an mp3 player from dell .	事實上 , 現在談到這點 , 我們甚至無法想像從戴爾電腦買一台mp3播放器 。
why would you buy an mp3 player from a computer company ?	為什麼你要買電腦公司的mp3播放器 ?
but we do it every day .	但我們每天都在做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼
the goal is not to do business with everybody who needs what you have .	目標不是要和所有需要你的人做生意 。
the goal is to do business with people who believe what you believe .	目標是要和那些相信你所相信的人們做生意 。
here's the best part: none of what i'm telling you is my opinion .	最棒的部分是:我跟你說的都不是我的意見 。
it's all grounded in the tenets of biology .	都是基於生物學的基礎 。
not psychology , biology .	不是心理學 , 生物學
if you look at a crosssection of the human brain , looking from the top down , what you see is the human brain is actually broken into three major components that correlate perfectly with the golden circle .	如果你看一下人類大腦的剖面圖 , 從上往下看 , 你看到的是 , 人類的大腦實際上是分成三個主要元件 , 與黃金圈完美的相關 。
our newest brain , our homo sapien brain , our neocortex , corresponds with the " what " level .	我們最新的大腦 , 我們的智人大腦 , 我們的大腦皮質 , 與 「 什麼 」 的層次對應 。
the neocortex is responsible for all of our rational and analytical thought and language .	大腦皮層負責我們所有的理性、分析的想法和語言 。
the middle two sections make up our limbic brains , and our limbic brains are responsible for all of our feelings , like trust and loyalty .	中間這兩個區塊構成我們的邊緣大腦 , 我們的邊緣大腦負責所有的感覺 , 例如信任和忠誠 。
it's also responsible for all human behavior , all decisionmaking , and it has no capacity for language .	它也負責所有人類的行為 , 所有的決策 , 而且它沒有語言的能力 。
in other words , when we communicate from the outside in , yes , people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features and benefits and facts and figures .	換句話說 , 當我們從外面溝通時 , 是的 , 人們可以了解大量複雜的資訊 , 如特徵、利益、事實和數字 。
it just doesn't drive behavior .	只是它不會驅動行為 。
when we can communicate from the inside out , we're talking directly to the part of the brain that controls behavior , and then we allow people to rationalize it with the tangible things we say and do .	當我們能從內而外的溝通時 , 我們會直接和控制行為的大腦溝通 , 接著 , 我們讓人們將它合理化 , 用我們說和做的有形事物 。
this is where gut decisions come from .	這就是我們的直覺決策來源 。
you know , sometimes you can give somebody all the facts and figures , and they say , " i know what all the facts and details say , but it just doesn't feel right . "	你知道 , 有時候你會給別人所有的事實和數字 , 他們會說: 「 我知道事實和細節說了什麼 , 但那感覺不對 。 」
why would we use that verb , it doesn't " feel " right ?	我們為什麼要用這個動詞 , 卻不 「 感覺 」 呢 ?
because the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking doesn't control language .	因為控制決策的腦部區域不控制語言 。
and the best we can muster up is , " i don't know . it just doesn't feel right . "	我們盡力而為: 「 我不知道 。 感覺不對 。 」
or sometimes you say you're leading with your heart , or you're leading with your soul .	或者有時你會說你在帶著你的心 , 或者你是帶著你的靈魂去領導 。
well , i hate to break it to you , those aren't other body parts controlling your behavior .	嗯 , 我很不想對你們說 , 那些其他的身體部位控制你的行為 。
it's all happening here in your limbic brain , the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking and not language .	一切都發生在你大腦邊緣的大腦中 , 控制決策而非語言的那部分 。
but if you don't know why you do what you do , and people respond to why you do what you do , then how will you ever get people to vote for you , or buy something from you , or , more importantly , be loyal and want to be a part of what it is that you do .	但如果你不知道為什麼你要做你所做的事 , 人們會回應你為什麼要做你要做的事 , 那麼你要如何讓人們去投票 , 或買東西給你 , 或 , 更重要的 , 去忠誠地去做你想要成為你所做的事的一部分 。
again , the goal is not just to sell to people who need what you have ; the goal is to sell to people who believe what you believe .	再一次 , 目標不只是要賣給需要你東西的人 ; 目標是要賣給那些相信你所相信的人們 。
the goal is not just to hire people who need a job ; it's to hire people who believe what you believe .	目標不只是要僱用需要工作的人 , 而是要僱用那些相信你所相信的人們 。
i always say that , you know , if you hire people just because they can do a job , they'll work for your money , but if you hire people who believe what you believe , they'll work for you with blood and sweat and tears .	我總是說 , 如果你雇用員工 , 只因為他們能做一份工作 , 他們會為你的錢工作 , 但如果你雇用了那些相信你所相信的的人 , 他們會用血、汗水和淚水來幫你工作 。
and nowhere else is there a better example of this than with the wright brothers .	比起萊特兄弟 , 還有更好的例子 。
most people don't know about samuel pierpont langley .	大部分人不知道samuelpierpontlangley
and back in the early 20th century , the pursuit of powered man flight was like the dot com of the day .	回到二十世紀初 , 追求權力人機的追求 , 就像當時的網路一樣 。
everybody was trying it .	每個人都在嘗試 。
and samuel pierpont langley had , what we assume , to be the recipe for success .	samuelpierperpontlangley , 我們認為是成功的秘訣 。
i mean , even now , you ask people , " why did your product or why did your company fail ? "	我的意思是 , 即使現在 , 你問人們: 「 為什麼你的產品 ? 為什麼你的公司失敗 ? 」
and people always give you the same permutation of the same three things: undercapitalized , the wrong people , bad market conditions .	人們總是會給你同樣的三件事:不幸的、不對的、不好的市場條件 。
it's always the same three things , so let's explore that .	這三樣東西都是一樣的 , 所以讓我們來探索一下 。
samuel pierpont langley was given 50 , 000 dollars by the war department to figure out this flying machine .	samuelpierperpontlangley得到五萬美金的資金 , 由戰爭部門得知這台飛行機器 。
money was no problem .	錢也沒問題 。
he held a seat at harvard and worked at the smithsonian and was extremely wellconnected ; he knew all the big minds of the day .	他在哈佛舉辦了一座座座椅 , 在史密森尼亞州工作 , 他認識當時所有人的心智 。
he hired the best minds money could find and the market conditions were fantastic .	他雇用了最好的頭腦資金 , 市場條件非常棒 。
the new york times followed him around everywhere , and everyone was rooting for langley .	紐約時報跟著他到處跑 , 所有人都支持langley 。
then how come we've never heard of samuel pierpont langley ?	那我們為什麼從來沒有聽過samuelpierpontlangley呢 ?
a few hundred miles away in dayton ohio , orville and wilbur wright , they had none of what we consider to be the recipe for success .	幾百英里遠在俄亥俄州的威爾伯•萊特 , 他們沒有一個成功的秘訣 。
they had no money ; they paid for their dream with the proceeds from their bicycle shop ; not a single person on the wright brothers' team had a college education , not even orville or wilbur ; and the new york times followed them around nowhere .	他們沒有錢 ; 他們用自行車店的程序來支付他們的夢想 ; 萊特兄弟的團隊中沒有任何一個人有大學教育 , 甚至不是ville或wilbur ; 紐約時報到處都是 。
the difference was , orville and wilbur were driven by a cause , by a purpose , by a belief .	差別在於 , 歐威爾和威爾堡的動力來自於一個目的 , 一個目的 , 一個信念 。
they believed that if they could figure out this flying machine , it'll change the course of the world .	他們相信如果他們能想出這台飛行機器 , 就能改變世界的軌跡 。
samuel pierpont langley was different .	samuelpierpontlangley不同 。
he wanted to be rich , and he wanted to be famous .	他想要有錢 , 而且他想要有名 。
he was in pursuit of the result .	他在追求結果 。
he was in pursuit of the riches .	他在追求財富 。
and lo and behold , look what happened .	你看 , 看看發生了什麼事 。
the people who believed in the wright brothers' dream worked with them with blood and sweat and tears .	那些相信萊特兄弟夢想的人們用血汗和淚水和他們一同工作的人 。
the others just worked for the paycheck .	其他的則只是為了賺錢而工作 。
and they tell stories of how every time the wright brothers went out , they would have to take five sets of parts , because that's how many times they would crash before they came in for supper .	他們講述的故事是 , 每次萊特兄弟出門 , 他們都得先拿出五組零件 , 因為那是他們進來吃飯前會墜機幾次 。
and , eventually , on december 17th , 1903 , the wright brothers took flight , and no one was there to even experience it .	最終 , 1903年12月17日 , 萊特兄弟開始飛行 , 甚至沒有人可以體驗它 。
we found out about it a few days later .	幾天後 , 我們發現了這件事 。
and further proof that langley was motivated by the wrong thing: the day the wright brothers took flight , he quit .	進一步證明langley的動機是錯誤的:萊特兄弟當天起飛了 , 他放棄了 。
he could have said , " that's an amazing discovery , guys , and i will improve upon your technology , " but he didn't .	他可能會說: 「 各位 , 這是個驚人的發現 , 我會改善你們的技術 。 」 但他沒有 。
he wasn't first , he didn't get rich , he didn't get famous so he quit .	他不是第一位 , 他沒有變有錢 , 他沒有變有名 , 所以他放棄了 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼
and if you talk about what you believe , you will attract those who believe what you believe .	如果你談到你的信仰 , 你就會吸引那些相信你所相信的信念的人 。
but why is it important to attract those who believe what you believe ?	但為什麼吸引那些相信你所相信的信念的人很重要 ?
something called the law of diffusion of innovation , and if you don't know the law , you definitely know the terminology .	所謂的 「 創新的散播法則 」 , 如果你不懂法律 , 你一定會知道這個術語 。
the first two and a half percent of our population are our innovators .	前2.5%的人口是我們的創新者 。
the next 13 and a half percent of our population are our early adopters .	接下來的13.5%的人口是早期採用者 。
the next 34 percent are your early majority , your late majority and your laggards .	接下來的34%是早期的大多數 , 晚期的多數人和後代的後代 。
the only reason these people buy touch tone phones is because you can't buy rotary phones anymore .	這些人只買了觸控電話的唯一理由 , 就是因為你再也買不了轉子手機 。
we all sit at various places at various times on this scale , but what the law of diffusion of innovation tells us is that if you want massmarket success or massmarket acceptance of an idea , you cannot have it until you achieve this tipping point between 15 and 18 percent market penetration , and then the system tips .	在這個尺度上 , 我們都坐在不同的地方 , 但創意的散播法則告訴我們 , 如果你想要大眾市場的成功或大眾市場接受一個想法 , 你就無法擁有它 , 直到你達成了15%到18%的市場市場佔有率的高峰期 , 然後系統就會崩潰 。
and i love asking businesses , " what's your conversion on new business ? "	我喜歡問企業: 「 你在新企業的轉變是什麼 ? 」
and they love to tell you , " oh , it's about 10 percent , " proudly .	他們很樂意跟你說: 「 喔 , 大概10%吧 。 」
well , you can trip over 10 percent of the customers .	嗯 , 你可以讓客戶超過10%的客戶使用 。
we all have about 10 percent who just " get it . "	我們都有大約10%的人 「 懂了 」 。
that's how we describe them , right ?	我們就是這樣形容他們 , 對吧 ?
that's like that gut feeling , " oh , they just get it . "	就像那種直覺 , 「 喔 , 他們就是懂了 。 」
the problem is: how do you find the ones that get it before you're doing business with them versus the ones who don't get it ?	問題是:在你和他們做生意之前 , 你要如何找到那些無法得到它的人 ?
so it's this here , this little gap that you have to close , as jeffrey moore calls it , " crossing the chasm " because , you see , the early majority will not try something until someone else has tried it first .	正如jefreymoore所說的 , 就是這個小小的缺口 " 跨越了隔閡 " 因為 , 你知道 , 早期大多數人都不會嘗試直到有人嘗試
and these guys , the innovators and the early adopters , they're comfortable making those gut decisions .	這些人 , 創新者和早期採用者 , 他們對於做出這些膽量的決定感到很自在 。
they're more comfortable making those intuitive decisions that are driven by what they believe about the world and not just what product is available .	他們更加自在地做出這些直覺性的決定 , 由他們對世界的信念所驅動 , 而不僅僅是產品的可得性 。
these are the people who stood in line for six hours to buy an iphone when they first came out , when you could have just walked into the store the next week and bought one off the shelf .	這些人排隊排了六個小時 , 第一次出櫃時 , 才買到iphone , 下星期你只要走進商店 , 再從架上買了一支手機 。
these are the people who spent 40 , 000 dollars on flat screen tvs when they first came out , even though the technology was substandard .	這些人花了4萬美金在平面螢幕上 , 第一次上映時花了4萬美金 , 儘管這項技術還不夠用了 。
and , by the way , they didn't do it because the technology was so great ; they did it for themselves .	順道一提 , 他們沒有這麼做 , 因為這項技術太棒了 , 他們自己做了 。
it's because they wanted to be first .	因為他們想成為第一人 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it and what you do simply proves what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼而你做的事只證明你相信什麼 。
in fact , people will do the things that prove what they believe .	事實上 , 人們會做一些證明他們所相信的事 。
the reason that person bought the iphone in the first six hours , stood in line for six hours , was because of what they believed about the world , and how they wanted everybody to see them: they were first .	在前六個小時 , 人們買iphone的原因 , 排在六個小時 , 是因為他們對世界的信念 , 以及他們想要每個人看見的 , 他們是第一名 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼
so let me give you a famous example , a famous failure and a famous success of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我舉個有名的例子 , 一個有名的失敗 , 以及一個有名的成功案例 , 關於創意的散播法則 。
first , the famous failure .	首先 , 著名的失敗 。
it's a commercial example .	這是個商業性的例子 。
as we said before , a second ago , the recipe for success is money and the right people and the right market conditions , right ? you should have success then .	如我們先前所說 , 第二 , 成功的秘方就是金錢 , 右派和右派市場條件 , 對嗎 ? 你應該要成功 。
from the time tivo came out about eight or nine years ago to this current day , they are the single highestquality product on the market , hands down , there is no dispute .	從第八、九年前的tivo出版到今日 , 他們是市場上最高品質的產品 , 請舉手 , 沒有爭議 。
they were extremely wellfunded .	他們的資金非常高 。
market conditions were fantastic .	市場的條件非常棒 。
i mean , we use tivo as verb .	我的意思是 , 我們把tivo當作動詞 。
i tivo stuff on my piece of junk time warner dvr all the time .	我總是在我的垃圾時間華納dvr上做很多東西 。
but tivo's a commercial failure .	但tivo是個商業性的失敗 。
they've never made money .	他們從來沒有賺到錢 。
and when they went ipo , their stock was at about 30 or 40 dollars and then plummeted , and it's never traded above 10 .	當他們上了ipo , 他們的股票大約是30到40美金 , 然後就下跌了 , 從來沒有在10歲以上交易過 。
in fact , i don't think it's even traded above six , except for a couple of little spikes .	事實上 , 我不認為它是在六歲以上交易的 , 除了幾個小突點之外 。
because you see , when tivo launched their product they told us all what they had .	因為你看 , 當tivo推出他們的產品時 , 他們告訴我們他們擁有的一切 。
they said , " we have a product that pauses live tv , skips commercials , rewinds live tv and memorizes your viewing habits without you even asking . "	他們說: 「 我們有一個產品可以暫停現場的電視節目 , 跳過廣告 , 轉播現場電視節目 , 記下你的收視習慣 , 甚至不問你 。 」
and the cynical majority said , " we don't believe you .	憤世嫉俗的多數人說: 「 我們不相信你 。
we don't need it . we don't like it .	我們不需要它 。 我們不喜歡它 。
you're scaring us . "	你嚇壞了我們 。 」
what if they had said , " if you're the kind of person who likes to have total control over every aspect of your life , boy , do we have a product for you .	如果他們說: 「 如果你是那種喜歡完全掌控你生活的各個層面的人 , 那麼 , 我們有這個產品給你 。
it pauses live tv , skips commercials , memorizes your viewing habits , etc . , etc . "	它可以暫停現場的電視節目 , 跳過廣告 , 記得你的收視習慣 , 等等 。 」
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it , and what you do simply serves as the proof of what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼而你所做的只是證明你所相信的
now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation .	現在 , 讓我給你一個成功的例子 , 關於創新的散播法則 。
in the summer of 1963 , 250 , 000 people showed up on the mall in washington to hear dr . king speak .	在1963年的夏天 , 有25萬人出現在華盛頓的購物中心聽金恩博士演說 。
they sent out no invitations , and there was no website to check the date .	他們沒有寄出任何邀請函 , 也沒有網站查看日期 。
how do you do that ?	你怎麼做到的 ?
well , dr . king wasn't the only man in america who was a great orator .	金恩博士不是美國唯一一個偉大的演說者 。
he wasn't the only man in america who suffered in a precivil rights america .	他不是美國唯一一個遭受過預防權利的人 。
in fact , some of his ideas were bad .	事實上 , 他的一些點子不好 。
but he had a gift .	但他有份禮物 。
he didn't go around telling people what needed to change in america .	他沒有到處告訴人們在美國需要什麼改變 。
he went around and told people what he believed .	他到處告訴人們他所相信的 。
" i believe , i believe , i believe , " he told people .	「 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 。 」 他告訴人們 。
and people who believed what he believed took his cause , and they made it their own , and they told people .	那些相信他所相信的的人把他的理想拿走 , 把理想變成他們自己的理想 , 然後他們告訴人們 。
and some of those people created structures to get the word out to even more people .	其中一些人創建了結構 , 讓更多人接觸到這個字 。
and lo and behold , 250 , 000 people showed up on the right day at the right time to hear him speak .	你看 , 有25萬人在正確的日子出現 , 聽他說話 。
how many of them showed up for him ?	有多少人為了他而出現 ?
they showed up for themselves .	他們為了自己而出 。
it's what they believed about america that got them to travel in a bus for eight hours to stand in the sun in washington in the middle of august .	這是他們所相信的美國 , 讓他們坐上八個小時的公車 , 在八月中期站在華盛頓的陽光下 。
it's what they believed , and it wasn't about black versus white: 25 percent of the audience was white .	這是他們所相信的 , 重點不是黑人和白人:百分之二十五的觀眾是白人 。
dr . king believed that there are two types of laws in this world: those that are made by a higher authority and those that are made by man .	金恩博士相信 , 世界上有兩種法則:那些法律是由更高的權威制訂的 , 和那些人所制訂的 。
and not until all the laws that are made by man are consistent with the laws that are made by the higher authority will we live in a just world .	除非所有人類所制訂的法律都和更高權威制定的法律一致 , 否則我們會生活在一個正義的世界裡 。
it just so happened that the civil rights movement was the perfect thing to help him bring his cause to life .	正因為如此 , 民權運動才讓他有了人生的理想 。
we followed , not for him , but for ourselves .	我們跟著 , 不是為了他 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and , by the way , he gave the " i have a dream " speech , not the " i have a plan " speech .	順道一提 , 他發表了 「 我有一個夢想 」 演說 , 而不是 「 我有一個計畫 」 演說 。
listen to politicians now , with their comprehensive 12point plans .	聽聽現在的政治家用他們全面性的12點計畫
they're not inspiring anybody .	他們沒有鼓舞任何人 。
because there are leaders and there are those who lead .	因為有領導者 , 也有領導者 。
leaders hold a position of power or authority , but those who lead inspire us .	領導者持有權力或權威的位置 , 但領導的人鼓舞了我們 。
whether they're individuals or organizations , we follow those who lead , not because we have to , but because we want to .	不論是個人或組織 , 我們追隨那些領導的人 , 不是因為我們必須 , 而是因為我們想要 。
we follow those who lead , not for them , but for ourselves .	我們追隨那些領導的人 , 不是為了他們 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and it's those who start with " why " that have the ability to inspire those around them or find others who inspire them .	正是那些從 「 為什麼 」 開始的人 , 有能力啟發他們周遭的人 , 或去找那些啟發他們的人 。
how do you remember where you parked your car ? how do you know if you're moving in the right direction ? neuroscientist neil burgess studies the neural mechanisms that map the space around us , and how they link to memory and imagination .	你怎麼記得你在車子的哪個位置 ? 你怎麼知道你是朝正確的方向移動的 ? 神經科學家尼爾•尼爾•塞爾研究了在我們周遭的神經機制 , 以及它們如何連結記憶和想像 。
brain , cognitive science , exploration , neuroscience , science	大腦、認知科學、探索、神經科學、科學 。
neil burgess: how your brain tells you where you are	neilburges:你的大腦如何告訴你你在哪裡 。
when we park in a big parking lot , how do we remember where we parked our car ?	當我們在大型停車場停車時 , 我們怎麼記得我們停車的地方 ?
here's the problem facing homer .	這是荷馬面對的問題 。
and we're going to try to understand what's happening in his brain .	我們會試著去了解他的大腦發生了什麼事 。
so we'll start with the hippocampus , shown in yellow , which is the organ of memory .	我們先從海馬迴開始 , 以黃色標示 , 也就是記憶的器官 。
if you have damage there , like in alzheimer's , you can't remember things including where you parked your car .	如果你在那兒受損 , 就像在阿茲海默症 , 你記不得東西 , 包括你停車的地方 。
it's named after latin for " seahorse , " which it resembles .	它的名字是拉丁文 「 海馬 」 , 和 「 海馬 」 很像 。
and like the rest of the brain , it's made of neurons .	就像大腦的其他部分一樣 , 它是由神經元組成的 。
so the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it .	人腦內有約一千億個神經元 。
and the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other .	神經元之間會互相溝通 , 通過互相連接來發送小脈衝或電刺激 。
the hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells , which are very densely interconnected .	海馬迴是由兩片非常緊密的細胞組成的 。
and scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food .	科學家開始了解空間記憶是如何運作的 , 藉由記錄老鼠或老鼠的個別神經元 , 來探索一個尋找食物的環境 。
so we're going to imagine we're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here .	想像一下 , 我們正在從這隻老鼠海馬體中紀錄一個神經元 。
and when it fires a little spike of electricity , there's going to be a red dot and a click .	當它發出一些電流刺激時 , 會有一個紅點和一個點擊 。
so what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment .	我們看到這個神經元知道這隻老鼠在環境中的某一個特定位置
and it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike .	大腦的其他部分藉由電流刺激 , 來向大腦發送訊號 。
so we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal's location .	我們可以將神經元的發射率作為動物的位置的函數 。
and if we record from lots of different neurons , we'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment , like in this square box shown here .	如果我們紀錄許多不同的神經元 , 我們會發現 , 當動物在不同環境的不同區域時 , 不同的神經元會發出訊號 , 就像這個方形方形方形方形方形方形方形方塊在這裡 。
so together they form a map for the rest of the brain , telling the brain continually , " where am i now within my environment ? "	所以他們一起 , 為大腦的其餘部分畫出一張地圖 , 不斷告訴大腦: 「 我現在在我的環境裡 ? 」
place cells are also being recorded in humans .	位置細胞也在人類身上被記錄下來 。
so epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring .	所以 , 癲癇患者有時需要他們大腦的電訊活動 。
and some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town .	有些病人玩電玩遊戲 , 他們在小鎮附近開車 。
and place cells in their hippocampi would fire , become active , start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town .	海馬丘中的位置細胞會發動 , 變得活躍 , 每當它們開車穿過一個特定的小鎮時 , 就會開始發送電子脈衝 。
so how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment ?	所以 , 一個安慰劑細胞如何知道環境中的老鼠或人在哪裡 ?
well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important .	這邊這兩個細胞告訴我們 , 環境的邊界非常重要 。
so the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat's in .	最上方的那一隻會在老鼠的老鼠的牆壁之間發出訊號 。
and when you expand the box , the firing location expands .	當你把盒子擴大 , 發射位置就會擴大 。
the one below likes to fire whenever there's a wall close by to the south .	下面的這棵樹會在靠近南邊的一道牆時發出火
and if you put another wall inside the box , then the cell fires in both place wherever there's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box .	如果你把另一面牆放進盒子裡 , 不管在南方哪裡都有一道牆 , 當動物在盒子裡四處探索時 , 細胞都會被激發 。
so this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you extended buildings and so on is particularly important for the hippocampus .	所以 , 這種預測會感測到你周圍的邊界和方向 , 延伸出建築物等等 , 對海馬迴來說特別重要 。
and indeed , on the inputs to the hippocampus , cells are found which project into the hippocampus , which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it's exploring around .	的確 , 在輸入海馬迴的輸入資料中 , 發現了海馬迴的哪些專案 , 對於偵測到邊界或邊緣的確有反應 , 尤其是當老鼠在探索時 , 會從老鼠或老鼠的指令和方向 。
so the cell on the left , you can see , it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east , whether it's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table , which the animals are running around .	左邊的細胞 , 你可以看到 , 當動物靠近牆壁時 , 它會發出訊號 , 不論是方形方框的邊緣或是圓形的圍牆 , 或甚至是桌子邊緣的邊緣 , 動物會在周圍移動 。
and the cell on the right there fires whenever there's a boundary to the south , whether it's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart .	右邊的細胞在任何時候都會被激發 , 不論是桌子邊緣或是牆壁 , 或甚至是兩張桌子之間的落差 。
so that's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it's exploring around .	所以 , 我們認為位置細胞會決定動物在四處探索的位置 。
we can also test where we think objects are , like this goal flag , in simple environments or indeed , where your car would be .	我們也可以測試我們認為物體在哪裡 , 例如這個目標旗幟 , 在簡單的環境中 , 或說 , 你的車會在哪裡 。
so we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember .	所以 , 我們可以讓人們去探索一個環境 , 去看看他們必須記得的地點 。
and then , if we put them back in the environment , generally they're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was .	接著 , 如果我們把它們放回到環境中 , 通常它們非常擅長把標記放到他們認為旗幟或車子的地方 。
but on some trials , we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell .	但在某些試驗中 , 我們可以改變環境的形狀和大小 , 就像我們對位置細胞做的一樣 。
in that case , we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment .	在這個例子中 , 我們可以看到他們認為旗幟的位置是如何改變你如何改變環境的形狀和大小 。
and what you see , for example , if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment , and then if you ask people where it was , but you've made the environment bigger , where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out .	舉例來說 , 你看到的國旗代表跨越小平方形環境的位置 , 然後如果你問人們那裡的位置 , 但是你讓環境變大了 , 他們認為旗幟的位置與發射的位置完全相同 。
it's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location , and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern .	這就好像你記得國旗在哪裡 , 藉由在你位置上儲存你位置細胞內的發射模式 , 然後你就可以藉由四處移動來回那個位置 , 這樣你就能找到最適合你位置細胞的當下模式 , 以儲存該位置的圖案 。
that guides you back to the location that you want to remember .	那會引導你回到你想要記得的地點 。
but we also know where we are through movement .	但我們也知道 , 我們透過運動來到哪裡 。
so if we take some outbound path perhaps we park and we wander off we know because our own movements , which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back .	所以如果我們走了一些邊界的路 , 也許我們停車 , 離開時我們會知道 , 因為我們自己的動作 , 我們可以整合這條路的方向 , 回去的方向大概就是前進的方向 。
and place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell .	位置細胞也能從所謂的網格網格細胞中得到這種整合 。
now grid cells are found , again , on the inputs to the hippocampus , and they're a bit like place cells .	網格細胞又再次被發現 , 在海馬迴的輸入中 , 它們有點像位置細胞 。
but now as the rat explores around , each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid .	但當老鼠四處探索時 , 每個個別細胞會在一系列不同位置的位置發射 , 以驚人的三角形網格呈現 。
and if you record from several grid cells shown here in different colors each one has a gridlike firing pattern across the environment , and each cell's gridlike firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells .	如果你從數個網格細胞中紀錄 , 這裡有不同顏色的網格細胞 , 每個細胞的網格狀激發模式 , 會稍微改變相對的細胞 。
so the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one .	紅色的 , 在這個網格上發出綠色的 , 還有藍色的 。
so together , it's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you'd find on a map , but using triangles .	總而言之 , 這就好像老鼠可以在環境中放置一個虛擬的網格 , 有點像地圖上的緯度和長度線 , 但用的是三角形 。
and as it moves around , the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is , so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment .	當它四處移動時 , 電子活動可以從這些細胞傳遞到下一個細胞 , 以追蹤它的所在 , 這樣它就可以用它自己的動作 , 來知道它在環境中的哪裡 。
do people have grid cells ?	人有電網細胞嗎 ?
well because all of the gridlike firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry , the same orientations of grid , shown in orange here , it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between .	因為所有類似電網的發射模式都有相同的對稱軸 , 在這裡的橘色方向 , 表示所有電網的淨活動 , 在大腦的某個特定區域 , 都應該根據這六個方向來改變 , 或是在中間的六個方向來跑 。
so we can put people in an mri scanner and have them do a little video game like the one i showed you and look for this signal .	我們可以把人放到核磁共振成像掃描儀中 , 讓他們做一個小遊戲 , 就像我給你們看的 , 並且尋找這個信號 。
and indeed , you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex , which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats .	的確 , 你在人腦內的內皮質也就是你在老鼠身上看到網格細胞的同一個部位
so back to homer .	回到荷馬 。
he's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked .	他可能還記得他的車在他停車的地方附近的距離和方向 。
and that would be represented by the firing of boundarydetecting cells .	那會被邊界偵測細胞的發射所代表 。
he's also remembering the path he took out of the car park , which would be represented in the firing of grid cells .	他還記得他從汽車停車場走出的路 , 這將會是以網格細胞激發出來的 。
now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire .	這兩種類型的細胞都可以讓位置細胞被激發 。
and he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car .	他可以藉由移動來返回停車位的位置 , 找到他目前大腦中最適合的位置 , 與他車子停車的位置 , 來配合他目前儲存的位置模式 。
and that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car's actually there .	那引導他回到那個位置 , 視覺提示的位置 , 像是他的車到底在那兒 。
maybe it's been towed .	也許它已經被用完了 。
but he knows where it was , so he knows to go and get it .	但他知道它在哪裡 , 所以他知道要去哪裡取得它 。
so beyond spatial memory , if we look for this gridlike firing pattern throughout the whole brain , we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks , like remembering the last time you went to a wedding , for example .	除了空間記憶之外 , 如果我們在整體大腦中尋找類似的發射模式 , 我們會在一系列的位置上看到它 , 當我們做各種自傳記憶任務時 , 總是很活躍 , 比如說 , 記得你上次去婚禮時 , 記得它 。
so it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene , at least , of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them .	所以 , 也許神經機制 , 代表我們周遭的空間 , 也被用來產生視覺影像 , 這樣我們就可以重現空間的場景 , 至少 , 當我們想要想像時 , 發生在我們身上的事件 。
so if this was happening , your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint .	所以如果發生了 , 你的記憶就可以從位置細胞透過這些密集的交互連結來啟動彼此 , 然後啟動邊界細胞 , 在你的觀點周圍創造出空間的結構 。
and grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space .	網格細胞可以透過這個空間移動這個視角 。
another kind of cell , head direction cells , which i didn't mention yet , they fire like a compass according to which way you're facing .	另一種類型的頭向細胞 , 我還沒提過 , 它們就像指南針一樣 , 根據你面對的方向 。
they could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery , so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding , for example .	他們可以定義觀看的方向 , 例如你想要為你的視覺影像產生影像 , 所以你可以想像 , 當你在婚禮時發生了什麼事 。
so this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains .	所以這只是一個新時代的例子 , 在認知神經科學中 , 我們開始了解心理過程 , 像是你如何記得、想像 , 或甚至思考 , 在數十億個獨立神經元所組成的大腦所採取的行動中 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝 。
imagine a global security driven by collaboration among agencies , government , the private sector and the public . that's not just the distant hope of opensource fans , it's the vision of james stavridis , the supreme commander of nato , who shares vivid moments from recent military history to explain why security of the future should be built with bridges rather than walls .	想像一下 , 一個全球安全的驅動力 , 是由組織、政府、私營部門 , 和公共機構合作推動的 , 這不僅僅是遙遠的開放資源的希望 , 這是jamesstavridis的願景 , 北大西洋最高層的指揮官 , 他們分享了來自近代軍事歷史的活力 , 來解釋未來的安全性 , 是否應該被建造在橋樑上 , 而不是牆壁 。
collaboration , global issues , opensource , peace , politics , social media , violence , war	合作、全球議題、開放資源、和平、政治、社交媒體、暴力、戰爭、戰爭 。
james stavridis: how nato's supreme commander thinks about global security	詹姆斯•斯特瓦里迪斯:北約的最高指揮官是如何看待全球安全的 。
i'm gonna talk a little bit about opensource security , because we've got to get better at security in this 21st century .	我將要談的是開放資源的安全 , 因為在21世紀 , 我們的安全性必須更好 。
let me start by saying , let's look back to the 20th century , and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us .	讓我先說 , 咱們先回顧二十世紀 , 了解安全的風格對我們是如何運作的 。
this is verdun , a battlefield in france just north of the nato headquarters in belgium .	這是verdun , 法國的戰場 , 位在比利時北部的北部 。
at verdun , in 1916 , over a 300day period , 700 , 000 people were killed , so about 2 , 000 a day .	1916年 , 在verdun , 在超過300天的期間 , 70萬人被殺 , 一天大約2000人 。
if you roll it forward 20thcentury security into the second world war , you see the battle of stalingrad , 300 days , 2 million people killed .	如果你將它推向二十世紀的安全 , 進入第二次世界大戰 , 你會看到史達林的戰役 , 300天 , 2百萬人死亡 。
we go into the cold war , and we continue to try and build walls .	我們進入冷戰 , 繼續建造圍牆 。
we go from the trench warfare of the first world war to the maginot line of the second world war , and then we go into the cold war , the iron curtain , the berlin wall .	我們從第一次世界大戰的戰線 , 到第二次世界大戰的麥金塔線 , 然後我們進入冷戰、鐵幕、柏林圍牆 。
my thesis for us today is , instead of building walls to create security , we need to build bridges .	今天 , 我們的論點是 , 不要建造圍牆來創造安全 , 我們得要建造橋樑 。
this is a famous bridge in europe .	這是歐洲一座知名的橋 。
it's the bridge over the drina river , the subject of a novel by ivo andrić , and it talks about how , in that very troubled part of europe and the balkans , over time there's been enormous building of walls .	這是在德雷納河上空的橋樑 , 作者是艾佛•安德里克 , 主題是關於歐洲和巴爾幹半島的一部分 , 經過一段時間 , 已經建造了巨大的牆壁 。
more recently , in the last decade , we begin to see these communities start , hesitatingly , to come together .	最近 , 在過去的十年 , 我們開始看到這些社區開始猶豫地團結在一起 。
i would argue , again , opensource security is about connecting the international , the interagency , the privatepublic , and lashing it together with strategic communication , largely in social networks .	我認為 , 同樣地 , 開放式安全是關聯國際 , 跨部門 , 私人公共 , 和策略性溝通 , 大多都是在社交網路上 。
so let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that , because our global commons is under attack in a variety of ways , and none of the sources of threat to the global commons will be solved by building walls .	所以 , 讓我來談談為什麼我們需要這麼做 , 因為全球公有物正受到各種攻擊 , 而對全球公有物來說 , 沒有任何威脅的來源可以透過築牆來解決 。
now , i'm a sailor , obviously .	顯然 , 我是一位水手 。
this is a ship , a liner , clipping through the indian ocean .	這是一艘船 , 一條線 , 橫越印度洋 。
what's wrong with this picture ?	這張照片有什麼問題 ?
it's got concertina wire along the sides of it .	它沿著它的側邊有協奏曲線 。
that's to prevent pirates from attacking it .	這是為了避免海盜攻擊它 。
piracy is a very active threat today around the world . this is in the indian ocean .	海盜是現今全世界非常活躍的威脅 。 這是在印度洋 。
piracy is also very active in the strait of malacca .	海盜在馬拉克海峽也非常活躍 。
it's active in the gulf of guinea .	它在幾內亞灣很活躍 。
we see it in the caribbean .	我們在加勒比海看到了 。
it's a $10billionayear discontinuity in the global transport system .	它是全球交通運輸系統的一百億美金損失 。
last year , at this time , there were 20 vessels , 500 mariners held hostage .	去年 , 當時有20艘船 , 500名船員被挾持 。
this is an attack on the global commons .	這是對全球公有物的攻擊 。
we need to think about how to address it .	我們得要思考要如何處理它 。
let's shift to a different kind of sea , the cyber sea .	讓我們轉移到另一種海洋 , 網路的海洋 。
here are photographs of two young men .	這是兩位年輕人的照片 。
at the moment , they're incarcerated .	此時 , 他們被監禁 。
they conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars .	他們做了一個信用卡詐欺案 , 要他們收入超過一百億美金 。
this is part of cybercrime which is a $2trillionayear discontinuity in the global economy .	這是網路犯罪的一部分 , 全球經濟損失2兆美元的損失 。
two trillion a year .	每年兩兆美元 。
that's just under the gdp of great britain .	這只是英國的國內生產毛額而已 。
so this cyber sea , which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness , is very much under threat as well .	所以這個網路世界 , 我們知道無止盡的 , 是一個極端開放的基本片段 , 也受到極大的威脅 。
another thing i worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking , by the movement of narcotics , opium , here coming out of afghanistan through europe over to the united states .	在全球公有物中 , 我擔心的另一件事 , 是販賣的威脅 , 由毒品、鴉片等運動所造成的 , 從阿富汗穿越歐洲到美國 。
we worry about cocaine coming from the andean ridge north .	我們擔心來自安第斯山北部的可卡因 。
we worry about the movement of illegal weapons and trafficking . above all , perhaps , we worry about human trafficking , and the awful cost of it .	我們擔心非法武器的運輸 。 最重要的是 , 我們擔心人口販賣 , 以及它的成本 。
trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons .	人口販賣主要在海上移動 , 但在全球公有物的其他地方 。
this is a photograph , and i wish i could tell you that this is a very hightech piece of us navy gear that we're using to stop the trafficking .	這是一張照片 , 我希望我能告訴你 , 這是一塊非常高科技的美國海軍的裝備 , 用來阻止販賣人口 。
the bad news is , this is a semisubmersible run by drug cartels .	壞消息是 , 這是毒品販毒集團執行的半潛水員 。
it was built in the jungles of south america .	它是在南美的叢林裡建造的 。
we caught it with that lowtech raft — — and it was carrying six tons of cocaine .	我們用低科技的木筏逮捕了它 , 且它載著六噸的古柯鹼 。
crew of four . sophisticated communications sweep .	四個船員 , 精密的溝通 。
this kind of trafficking , in narcotics , in humans , in weapons , god forbid , in weapons of mass destruction , is part of the threat to the global commons .	這種販賣方式 , 在毒品、人、武器、上帝禁止 , 在大規模毀滅性武器當中 , 是威脅全球公有物的一部分 。
and let's pull it together in afghanistan today .	今天 , 讓我們在阿富汗組合起來 。
this is a field of poppies in afghanistan .	這是阿富汗的一片木偶 。
eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppy , opium and heroin , comes out of afghanistan .	世界上80% ~ 90%的小狗 , 鴉片和海洛英 , 來自阿富汗 。
we also see there , of course , terrorism .	我們也看到了恐怖主義 。
this is where al qaeda is staged from .	這是蓋達組織的由來 。
we also see a very strong insurgency embedded there .	我們也看到一間非常強烈的保險公司在裡面 。
so this terrorism concern is also part of the global commons , and what we must address .	所以 , 這種恐怖主義關心的是全球公有物的一部分 , 以及我們必須面對的 。
so here we are , 21st century .	所以 , 21世紀 。
we know our 20thcentury tools are not going to work .	我們知道二十世紀的工具是行不通的 。
what should we do ?	我們該怎麼做 ?
i would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我認為我們不能只靠槍枝來提供安全 。
we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我們不能僅僅從槍枝桶裡提供安全保障 。
we will need the application of military force .	我們需要軍事力量的應用 。
when we do it , we must do it well , and competently .	當我們這麼做時 , 我們必須要做得很好 , 且要有競爭力 。
but my thesis is , opensource security is about international , interagency , privatepublic connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the internet .	但我的論點是 , 開放原始碼安全是關於國際、跨部門、私人和公共的聯繫 , 透過這個在網路上策略性溝通的概念 。
let me give you a couple of examples of how this works in a positive way .	讓我舉幾個例子來說明這個方法如何運作 。
this is afghanistan . these are afghan soldiers .	這是阿富汗 。 這些是阿富汗士兵 。
they are all holding books .	他們都拿著書 。
you should say , " that's odd . i thought i read that this demographic , young men and women in their 20s and 30s , is largely illiterate in afghanistan . "	你應該說: 「 這很奇怪 , 我想我讀到在阿富汗的人口統計數字 , 二十到三十歲的年輕人 , 大多是不識字的 。 」
you would be correct .	你是對的 。
eightyfive percent cannot read when they enter the security forces of afghanistan .	當他們進入阿富汗的安全部隊時 , 85%的人無法閱讀 。
why ? because the taliban withheld education during the period of time in which these men and women would have learned to read .	為什麼 ? 因為在這些男人和女人的時期 , 塔利班的教育就已經學會閱讀了 。
so the question is , so , why are they all standing there holding books ?	所以問題是 , 為什麼他們都站在那裡拿著書 ?
the answer is , we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by nato in partnership with private sector entities , in partnership with development agencies .	答案是 , 我們在教導他們閱讀文學課程 , 用北約的課程 , 與私營部門合作 , 和發展部門合作 。
we've taught well over 200 , 000 afghan security forces to read and write at a basic level .	我們已經教導了超過二十萬的阿富汗安全部隊 , 以基本的層面讀和寫 。
when you can read and write in afghanistan , you will typically put a pen in your pocket .	當你能在阿富汗讀到和寫作時 , 你通常會把一支筆放在口袋裡 。
at the ceremonies , when these young men and women graduate , they take that pen with great pride , and put it in their pocket .	在儀式中 , 當這些年輕男女畢業時 , 他們自豪地拿著那支筆 , 放在口袋裡 。
this is bringing together international — there are 50 nations involved in this mission — interagency — these development agencies — and privatepublic , to take on this kind of security .	國際間有50個國家參與這個任務--國際間的介入--這些發展部門--和私營的公共部門 , 來進行這種安全的承諾 。
now , we are also teaching them combat skills , of course , but i would argue , opensource security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect .	當然 , 我們也在教他們戰鬥技能 , 但我認為 , 開放資源的安全意味著將創造更持久的安全效應連結起來 。
this is a us navy warship .	這是美國海軍戰艦 。
it's called the comfort .	叫做 「 舒適 」 。
there's a sister ship called the mercy .	有一艘叫做慈悲的姐妹船 。
they are hospital ships .	他們是醫院的船隻 。
this one , the comfort , operates throughout the caribbean and the coast of south america conducting patient treatments .	這個 , 舒適的在加勒比海以及南美洲的海岸進行病人治療
on a typical cruise , they'll do 400 , 000 patient treatments .	在一般的航程中 , 他們會做40萬個病人的治療 。
it is crewed not strictly by military but by a combination of humanitarian organizations: operation hope , project smile .	它的團隊不是嚴格的由軍隊組成 , 而是結合了人道主義組織: 「 希望 」 、 「 微笑 」 。
other organizations send volunteers .	其他組織派遣志願者 。
interagency physicians come out .	跨領域的醫生出來了 。
they're all part of this .	他們都是這方面的一部分 。
to give you one example of the impact this can have , this little boy , eight years old , walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the comfort .	舉個例子來說明這會帶來什麼影響 , 這個小男孩 , 八歲 , 帶著他的母親走了兩天 , 來到安慰的眼科診所 。
when he was fitted , over his extremely myopic eyes , he suddenly looked up and said , " mama , veo el mundo . "	當他被適應時 , 他的眼睛突然抬起頭 , 說: 「 媽媽 , veoelmundo 。 」
" mom , i see the world . "	「 媽媽 , 我看到世界了 。 」
multiply this by 400 , 000 patient treatments , this privatepublic collaboration with security forces , and you begin to see the power of creating security in a very different way .	把這個乘上40萬個病人的治療 , 這個私人和安全部門合作的力量 , 你就會開始看到以截然不同的方式來創造安全的力量 。
here you see baseball players .	這是棒球選手 。
can you pick out the two us army soldiers in this photograph ?	你能在照片中挑出兩位美國軍人嗎 ?
they are the two young men on either side of these young boys . this is part of a series of baseball clinics , where we have explored collaboration between major league baseball , the department of state , who sets up the diplomatic piece of this , military baseball players , who are real soldiers with real skills but participate in this mission , and they put on clinics throughout latin america and the caribbean , in honduras , in nicaragua , in all of the central american and caribbean nations where baseball is so popular , and it creates security .	他們是這兩位年輕男孩 。 這是一系列棒球診所的其中一員 , 我們在那兒探討了主要聯盟棒球隊 , 國家部門的合作 , 他們設立了外交部隊 , 軍事棒球員 , 他們是真正的士兵 , 但參與了這個任務 , 他們在拉丁美洲和加勒比海 , 在拉丁美洲和加勒比海 , 在全美各地 , 和加勒比海 , 和加勒比海 , 之間的合作 , 創造出了安全感 。
it shows role models to young men and women about fitness and about life that i would argue help create security for us .	它向年輕男女展示了健身和人生的榜樣 , 我認為幫助我們創造安全 。
another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief .	這種合作關係的另一面是災難救 。
this is a us air force helicopter participating after the tsunami in 2004 which killed 250 , 000 people .	這是一架美國空軍直升機在2004年海嘯後參與 , 殺害了25萬人 。
in each of these major disasters — the tsunami in 2004 , 250 , 000 dead , the kashmiri earthquake in pakistan , 2005 , 85 , 000 dead , the haitian earthquake , about 300 , 000 dead , more recently the awful earthquaketsunami combination which struck japan and its nuclear industry — in all of these instances , we see partnerships between international actors , interagency , privatepublic working with security forces to respond to this kind of natural disaster .	在這些重大災難中 , 2004年的海嘯 , 25萬人死亡 , 2005年 , 巴基斯坦的卡許米大地震 , 8萬5千人死亡 , 海地地震 , 30000人死亡 , 更近期 , 日本的核工業結合在一起 , 所有這些例子 , 我們看到國際間的合作關係 , 和安全的合作關係 , 與安全性合作 , 與安全性合作 。
so these are examples of this idea of opensource security .	這些都是開放資源安全的例子 。
we tie it together , increasingly , by doing things like this .	我們把它們綁在一起 , 漸漸地 , 做這樣的事情 。
now , you're looking at this thinking , " ah , admiral , these must be sea lanes of communication , or these might be fiber optic cables . "	現在你看到的這個想法是: 「 啊 , 承認 , 這些必定是通訊的通訊路線 , 或者這些可能是光纖電纜 。 」
no . this is a graphic of the world according to twitter .	不 , 根據推特 , 這是世界的圖表 。
purple are tweets . green are geolocation .	紫色是推特 , 綠色是地理分配 。
white is the synthesis .	白色是合成的 。
it's a perfect evocation of that great population survey , the six largest nations in the world in descending order: china , india , facebook , the united states , twitter and indonesia .	它正是推動了那次人口調查 , 世界上六大的國家以下的依序:中國、印度、臉書、美國、推特和印尼 。
why do we want to get in these nets ?	我們為什麼要用這些網子 ?
why do we want to be involved ?	我們為什麼要參與其中 ?
we talked earlier about the arab spring , and the power of all this .	我們先前談過阿拉伯之春 , 和這一切的力量 。
i'll give you another example , and it's how you move this message .	我再舉另一個例子 , 就是你如何傳遞這個訊息 。
i gave a talk like this in london a while back about this point . i said , as i say to all of you , i'm on facebook . friend me .	我在倫敦做了一個類似的演講 , 關於這一點 。 我說 , 如同我對你們說的 , 我在臉書上 , 朋友 。
got a little laugh from the audience .	觀眾笑了一下 。
there was an article which was run by ap , on the wire .	有一篇文章是用ap來播放的 , 用線索播放 。
got picked up in two places in the world: finland and indonesia .	世界上有兩個地方:芬蘭和印尼 。
the headline was: nato admiral needs friends .	標題是:北大西洋公約組織的需要朋友 。
and the story was a catalyst , and the next morning i had hundreds of facebook friend requests from indonesians and finns , mostly saying , " admiral , we heard you need a friend , and oh , by the way , what is nato ? "	這個故事是一場催化劑 , 隔天早上 , 我收到數百個臉書朋友請求 , 來自印尼人和芬蘭人 , 他們通常會說: 「 阿米德 , 我們聽說你需要一個朋友 , 喔 , 順道一提 , 北約有什麼 ? 」
yeah , we laugh , but this is how we move the message , and moving that message is how we connect international , interagency , privatepublic , and these social nets to help create security .	沒錯 , 我們會笑 , 但這就是我們如何傳遞訊息 , 轉移訊息 , 就是我們如何連結國際、跨部門、私人和社會網絡 , 來協助創造安全 。
now , let me hit a somber note .	現在 , 讓我來點一個嚴肅的消息 。
this is a photograph of a brave british soldier .	這是一位勇敢的英國士兵的照片 。
he's in the scots guards .	他在蘇格蘭警衛隊 。
he's standing the watch in helmand , in southern afghanistan .	他站在helmand的手錶上 , 在阿富汗南部 。
i put him here to remind us , i would not want anyone to leave the room thinking that we do not need capable , competent militaries who can create real military effect .	我把他帶到這裡來提醒我們 , 我不想讓任何人離開房間 , 認為我們不需要有能力 , 能創造真正的軍事效應 。
that is the core of who we are and what we do , and we do it to protect freedom , freedom of speech , all the things we treasure in our societies .	這就是我們所做所為的核心 , 我們為了保護自由 , 言論自由 , 和在我們的社會中我們珍視的一切 。
but , you know , life is not an onandoff switch .	但 , 你知道 , 人生並非隨便開關 。
you don't have to have a military that is either in hard combat or is in the barracks .	你不需要有一支部隊 , 不是在戰鬥中 , 就是在戰鬥中 。
i would argue life is a rheostat .	我會說 , 生命是隨機的 。
you have to dial it in , and as i think about how we create security in this 21st century , there will be times when we will apply hard power in true war and crisis , but there will be many instances , as we've talked about today , where our militaries can be part of creating 21stcentury security , international , interagency , privatepublic , connected with competent communication .	你必須調查它 , 正如我在想我們如何在21世紀創造安全一樣 , 將會有好幾次我們要在真正的戰爭和危機中使用真正的硬實力 , 但會有很多例子 , 就像我們今天所談到的 , 我們的軍隊可以成為創造21世紀安全的一部分 , 國際安全 , 跨國 , 跨部門 , 和公共的聯繫 。
i would close by saying that we heard earlier today about wikipedia . i use wikipedia all the time to look up facts , and as all of you appreciate , wikipedia is not created by 12 brilliant people locked in a room writing articles .	最後 , 我會說我們今天稍早聽說維基百科 。 我經常使用維基百科來查看事實 , 所有人都很感激 , 維基百科並非由12個聰明的人所創立的 。
wikipedia , every day , is tens of thousands of people inputting information , and every day millions of people withdrawing that information .	維基百科 , 每天有數萬人在輸入資訊 , 每天有數百萬人在退出資訊 。
it's a perfect image for the fundamental point that no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	對我們所有人一起思考的基礎觀點來說 , 這是完美的圖像 。
no one person , no one alliance , no one nation , no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	沒有一個人 , 沒有一個聯盟 , 沒有一個國家 , 沒有一個我們所有人一起思考的那麼聰明 。
the vision statement of wikipedia is very simple: a world in which every human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge .	維基百科的宣言非常簡單:在這個世界上 , 每個人都可以自由地分享所有的知識 。
my thesis for you is that by combining international , interagency , privatepublic , strategic communication , together , in this 21st century , we can create the sum of all security .	我的論點是 , 把國際、跨部門、私人、策略性溝通結合在一起 , 在21世紀 , 我們可以創造出所有安全的總和 。
thank you very much . thank you . thank you .	非常謝謝 。 謝謝 。
