BLEU = 15.47 46.2/22.3/11.1/5.8 (BP = 0.965 ratio = 0.966 hyp_len = 107476 ref_len = 111282)
when you say she's a programmer , she did do some , but the real thing is to have said the future is going to be much , much more than this .	當你說她是個計劃師 , 她做了一些 , 但真正的重點是 , 未來要有更多 。
now , a hundred years later , this guy comes along , alan turing , and in 1936 , and invents the computer all over again .	現在 , 一百年後 , 這個傢伙來到1936年 , 發明了電腦 。
now , of course , babbage's machine was entirely mechanical .	當然 , babbage是一個機械的機械 。
turing's machine was entirely theoretical .	turing是完全合理的 。
both of these guys were coming from a mathematical perspective , but turing told us something very important .	這些傢伙從數學角度來看 , 但要告訴我們一件非常重要的事 。
he laid down the mathematical foundations for computer science , and said , " it doesn't matter how you make a computer . "	他缺乏數學基礎基礎基礎基礎基礎 , 說: 「 它不管你如何製造電腦 」
it doesn't matter if your computer's mechanical , like babbage's was , or electronic , like computers are today , or perhaps in the future , cells , or , again , mechanical again , once we get into nanotechnology .	不管你電腦的機械 , 比如巴比的機械 , 如今電腦一樣 , 或電子 , 或許在未來 , 或在未來 , 再次 , 再次我們進入奈米學 。
we could go back to babbage's machine and just make it tiny . all those things are computers .	我們可以回到babbage的機器 , 只是讓它微小 。 所有這些東西都是電腦 。
there is in a sense a computing essence .	在某種意義上 , 有一個計算機 。
this is called the church–turing thesis .	這叫做教堂教堂 ,
and so suddenly , you get this link where you say this thing babbage had built really was a computer .	突然間 , 你就得到了這張圖書館 , 你說這個東西babbage建造真的是個電腦 。
in fact , it was capable of doing everything we do today with computers , only really slowly .	事實上 , 我們今天能用電腦來做所有事情 , 都很慢 。
to give you an idea of how slowly , it had about 1k of memory .	為了給各位一個想法如何慢地 , 它有大約一公里 。
it used punch cards , which were being fed in , and it ran about 10 , 000 times slower the first zx81 .	它用了一萬倍的車子 , 它被餵飽了大約一萬倍 。
it did have a ram pack .	它有一個罕見的原型 。
you could add on a lot of extra memory if you wanted to .	你可以在很多外交記憶中加上很多 。
so , where does that bring us today ?	那麼 , 這帶給我們什麼樣子 ?
so there are plans .	所以有計劃 。
over in swindon , the science museum archives , there are hundreds of plans and thousands of pages of notes written by charles babbage about this analytical engine .	在瑞典博物館裡 , 科學博物館裡有數百種植物和數千個非寫作 , 關於這種分析工程程程程 。
one of those is a set of plans that we call plan 28 , and that is also the name of a charity that i started with doron swade , who was the curator of computing at the science museum , and also the person who drove the project to build a difference engine , and our plan is to build it .	其中之一就是我們所謂的計劃之一 , 這也是我所謂的慈善機構 , 他是來自科學博物館 , 他是從科學博物館的曲線 , 而我們的計畫就是建造一個不同的工程師 , 我們的計畫就是建造它 。
here in south kensington , we will build the analytical engine .	在南韓 , 我們會建構一個分析工程程 。
the project has a number of parts to it .	這項計畫有數量的部分 。
one was the scanning of babbage's archive .	第一是巴bbage的掃描 。
that's been done . the second is now the study of all of those plans to determine what to build .	第二個計畫已經完成了 。 現在第二個計畫來決定建造什麼 。
the third part is a computer simulation of that machine , and the last part is to physically build it at the science museum .	第三個部分是電腦模擬電腦模擬博物館 , 最後一部分是物理博物館 。
when it's built , you'll finally be able to understand how a computer works , because rather than having a tiny chip in front of you , you've got to look at this humongous thing and say , " ah , i see the memory operating , i see the cpu operating , i hear it operating . i probably smell it operating . "	當它建構時 , 你終於可以理解電腦運作 , 因為不是有小小的晶片 , 而是在你面前 , 你必須仔細觀察這個奇怪的事情 , 然後說: 「 嗯 , 我看到了記憶體 」 。
but in between that we're going to do a simulation .	但在此時 , 我們要做一個模擬 。
babbage himself wrote , he said , as soon as the analytical engine exists , it will surely guide the future course of science .	babbage寫著 , 他說 , 身為分析工程程存在 , 它會確保科學的未來 。
of course , he never built it , because he was always fiddling with new plans , but when it did get built , of course , in the 1940s , everything changed .	當然 , 他從來沒有建構它 , 因為他總是用新的計劃 , 但在1940年代 , 一切都改變了 。
now , i'll just give you a little taste of what it looks like in motion with a video which shows just one part of the cpu mechanism working .	現在 , 我要給各位一點一點一點一點點 , 它看起來像在動機體運作的其中一部分之一 , 顯示一部分乾淨機制之一 。
so this is just three sets of cogs , and it's going to add . this is the adding mechanism in action , so you imagine this gigantic machine .	所以這只是三組認知機制 , 它將會加上行動機制 , 所以你想像這台巨大的機制 , 所以你想像一下這個巨大機器 。
so , give me five years .	所以 , 給我五年了 。
before the 2030s happen , we'll have it .	在2030年發生之前 , 我們會得到 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝各位 。
in this imagefilled talk , yann arthusbertrand displays his three most recent projects on humanity and our habitat stunning aerial photographs in his series " the earth from above , " personal interviews from around the globe featured in his web project " 6 billion others , " and his soontobereleased movie , " home , " which documents human impact on the environment through breathtaking video .	在這個圖片中 , 敘利亞藝術hubertrand展覽他的三項最最近的計畫 , 以及我們的棲息地在他的家中 , 《個人訪客》中 , 來自全球各地的訪客》中 , 來自全球各地的訪問 , 「 六十億六十億個電影 」 。
art , climate change , environment , film , future , humanity , media , photography	藝術、氣候變遷、未來、人性、媒體、影像、影像、影像 。
yann arthusbertrand captures fragile earth in wideangle	yan藝術hubertrand捕捉脆弱的地球 。
i have a big impact on the planet to travel here by plane .	我在地球上有很大的影響 。
i emitted , in the atmosphere , nine tons of co2 ; that is the weight of two elephants .	我在大氣層中 , 在大氣中 , 九十噸的二氧化碳的重量 。
i came here to speak about ecology , and i emitted as much co2 as a frenchman in one year .	我來這裡來這裡談生物學 , 我把二氧化碳作為法國的二氧化碳 。
so what do i have to do ?	所以 , 我該怎麼做 ?
i have to kill a frenchman when i come back at home ?	我必須殺死一個法國時 , 我必須殺死一個法國 ?
i have to do my carbon offset in another way , like i do every time .	我必須在另一方面做我的碳排放 , 就像我每次做一樣 。
in fact my work is to show our impact on our planet .	事實上 , 我的作品是為了展示我們的地球上的影響 。
i'm going to show you some examples of the last pictures i've done in the last year .	我要給各位看一些我過去的照片 。
alberta sand oil , a lot of pollution .	阿伯伯伯伯塔 , 許多污染 。
you know the problem ; we don't want to believe what we know .	你知道問題 ; 我們不想相信我們所知的 。
in alberta people work nonstop , 24 hours by seven to extract as much oil as they can .	在阿伯伯塔人工作 , 沒有7到24小時的石油 , 大約是7到7個小時的石油 。
we know about the end of oil .	我們知道石油結束了 。
oil sand is not a longterm solution .	石油沙子不是長期的解決方案 。
but we use three times more oil than we find every year .	但我們每年使用三倍的石油比我們找到的石油 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知的 。
coral reef in new caledonia .	珊瑚礁在新加州 。
100 percent of the coral may be wiped out before 2050 because of global warming .	2050年 , 珊瑚可能在2050年 , 因為全球暖化 。
and you know how coral are very sensitive to temperature , and are very important for the biodiversity of the sea .	你知道珊瑚是非常敏感感的溫度 , 而且非常重要的是生物多樣性 。
north pole . i've done this picture last summer .	北極 , 我做了這張照片 。
it was impossible to do this picture 15 years ago .	15年前真的不可能做到這張照片 。
now there is a new way open between atlantic and pacific .	現在有一個新的方法開放式和太平洋之間的開放 。
the thickness of the arctic decreased more than 40 percent since 1960 .	北極的威脅 , 超過1960年從1960年開始 。
there is a new face of kilimanjaro without ice .	kilimanjaroo沒有冰淇淋 ,
it lost 80 percent of its ice .	它失去了80%的冰川 。
according to scientists , in 100 years all the mountain glacier will be gone .	根據科學家來說 , 在100年內 , 所有山脈會消失 。
glaciers are very important for the life on earth .	玻璃非常重要 。
like al gore told you , two billion people live on the water from the glacier of himalaya .	就像algore告訴你們 , 有二十億人住在迦納的水面上 。
return of fish men .	漁民男人的回收 。
one fifth of human kind depend on fish to live .	人類的一分之一是魚類的 。
today now 70 percent of the fish stock are overexploited .	現今 , 現在有70%的魚股已經被忽略了 。
according to fao , if we don't change our system of fishing the main sea resources will be gone in 2050 .	根據faceo , 如果我們不改變我們的漁業系統的主要資源將會在2050年 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知的 。
the beautiful picture , by [unclear] in africa .	美麗的照片 , 透過非洲 。
one human of six have not enough to eat in the world .	六個人沒有足夠吃在世界裡 。
one billion people have not enough to eat .	有十億人沒有足夠吃 。
in africa , corn is one of the main foods in many places .	在非洲 , 玉米是許多地方主要食物之一 。
here in america , 90 percent of the corn cultivated is used to feed animals or to do oil .	在美國 , 90%的玉米活動被用來餵食動物或油油油 。
palm tree plantation in borneo .	棕櫚樹植物在出生 。
every year we lose 50 thousand square miles in deforestation .	每年我們失去了500萬平方英里的森林 。
refugee camp in darfur .	難民營的營營養營 。
today we have 20 million refugees in the world .	現今 , 我們有20百萬個難民 。
according to the u . n . , we speak about 250 million refugees in 2050 .	根據美國 , 我們在2050年 , 我們談到大約2050年 。
i always show my pictures in the street .	我總是在街上展示我的照片 。
we have done already 100 exhibitions in the cities .	我們已經在城市裡做了100個展覽 。
but how to understand the world without the voice of people ?	但如何理解這個世界沒有聲音聲音聲音的聲音 ?
landscape was not enough .	景象並不夠 。
it was obvious to me to do another work .	對我來說 , 對我來說 , 很明顯 。
i launched a project named six billion others .	我發射了一個計畫叫做六十億人 。
i sent around the world six cameramen asking the same question , the same crucial question , about life .	我在全世界六個攝影機問同樣的問題 , 相同的問題 , 相同重要的關鍵問題 , 關於生命 。
we have done five thousand interviews .	我們做了五千個訪問 。
i'm going to show you this .	我要給各位看這一點 。
man: the most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life ?	男子:我人生中最美麗的事情發生了什麼事 ?
it's when my dad told me , " here , i give you this girl as your fiance . "	我爸告訴我: 「 在這裡 , 我給你們一個女孩 。 」
woman: love ? love is nice if you can have it .	女人:愛嗎 ? 愛是好的 。
second man: romeo and juliet , sassi and panno , dodi and diana , heer and ranjha , this is love ! third man: my greatest fear is . . .	第二個男人:羅馬和茱莉亞諾、dodino、dodia、dodia、dodia , 這是愛 ! 第三個男人:我最偉大的恐懼 。
woman: you're asking me a hard question .	女:你問我一個難題的問題 。
fourth man: i live happily because what else should i do ?	第四個男人:我生活幸福 , 因為我該怎麼做 ?
fifth man: the first thing i remember . . .	第五人:我記得 。
fifth man: . . . from my childhood , fifth man: we were having fun , biking .	第五人:從我的童年起 , 第五人:我們在玩樂、比王 。
seventh man: we invented stories , we flew around the world , while remaining in our attic .	第七個男人:我們發明故事 , 我們在我們的政治上飛行 。
eighth man: i had a big laugh today .	8男人:今天我有一個很大笑 。
ninth man: you see , family is . . . it's awful .	第九人:你知道 , 家人是很糟糕 。
10th man: in the word life , you have the life .	第十人:在這個詞中 , 你有生命 。
11th man: who am i ? isn't that the biggest question ?	11:我是誰 ? 我是誰 ?
12th man: if i was to go back to iraq and speak to the people , i'd have to bow down and kiss their feet .	第12個男子:如果我回到伊拉克和人們談話 , 我必須把他們的腳踏下來和技巧 。
just as that woman tried to kiss my feet when we were taking her sons .	身為那個女人試圖抓住她的兒子 。
and i feel humbled by their strength .	我感到謙卑 , 她們的力量 。
and i will forever feel a need to make reparations to iraq .	我永遠覺得 , 要讓伊拉克的感覺 。
second woman: dad , mom , i grew up .	第二個女人:爸 , 媽 , 我長大 。
you shouldn't worry about me . dad doesn't need to go to work .	你不應該擔心我 。 爸爸不需要去工作 。
my family . . . what can i say ?	我的家人 。 我能說什麼 ?
at the moment , my family is very poor , my life here in shenzhen is just about showing myself that i can earn more and to let my parents stay and have something to live on .	在那一刻 , 我的家人非常貧窮 , 我的家人都在說我可以賺更多 , 讓我的父母留下來 , 讓他們活在 。
i don't want them to spend their whole lives in poverty .	我不希望他們花在貧窮中生活在貧窮中 。
if someday i can achieve something , i would like to say thank you daddy and mommy .	如果有一天 , 我可以達成一些東西 , 我想說謝謝你和媽媽 。
thank you for having fed me and raised me , and for making my life of today . thank you .	謝謝你們有餵我和強暴我 , 為今天為我帶來的人生 。 謝謝大家 。 謝謝 。
13th man: after seven years now of being in a wheelchair , i've done more in life being in a chair than out of a chair .	13歲男子:過去七年後 , 我已經做了更多 , 在椅子裡做更多的事 , 我在椅子裡做更多 。
i still surf . i sail the world . i freedive .	我仍然在urfurf.i.i.i.
after many people said i couldn't do that .	在許多人說我無法這麼做 。
and i think that comes from connecting with nature , connecting with the energy of life , because we're all disabled in some way on the planet spiritually , mentally or physically .	我認為這來自大自然的連結 , 因為我們都可以用某種方式連結 , 因為我們都能在某種程度上 , 心理上 , 心理上 , 心理上或身體 。
i got the easy part .	我得到簡單的部分 。
14th man: let's say that you and me like each other .	14個男人:咱們說 , 你和我一樣喜歡彼此 。
you come from elsewhere .	你來自其他地方 。
you don't know me . i don't know you .	你不知道我 。 我不知道你們 。
we talk without lying .	我們不願意唱歌 。
if i do like you , i give you one cow and many other things and we become friends .	如果我喜歡你們 , 我給你們一個牛奶和許多其他東西 , 我們變成朋友 。
how can we make it all by ourselves ?	我們該怎麼做呢 ?
yab: you can also go to the website , answer respond to the questions also .	yab:你也可以去到網站 , 回答回答這個問題 。
now i am going to speak to you about my movie .	現在我要跟各位談我的電影 。
for the last three years , i was shooting the earth for the movie .	過去三年來 , 我拍攝了地球 。
the name of the movie is " home " " maison . "	電影的名字是 「 家 」 。
it is about the state of the planet .	這是關於地球的狀態的狀態 。
it's a fantastic story of life on the earth .	這是地球上最棒的故事 。
i'm very proud to show you the teaser .	我非常驕傲地給大家看茶壺 。
video: this earth is four and a half billion years old .	影片:這地球是450億歲 。
these plants , several hundred million years old .	這些植物、數千萬歲 。
and we humans have been walking upright for only 200 thousand years .	我們人類一直在走路上 , 只剩2000年 。
we've managed to adapt , and have conquered the whole planet .	我們必須適應適應 , 整個星球 。
for generations , we've been raising our children , not unlike millions of other species living beside us .	對世代來說 , 我們一直在提升我們的孩子 , 不像我們一樣 。
for the past 30 years i've been closely watching the earth and its dwellers from high up in the sky .	過去三十年來 , 我一直仔細觀察地球 , 並從天空中升高 。
our life is tied to the wellbeing of our planet .	我們的人生被綁架到我們的地球的幸福 。
we depend on water , forests , deserts , oceans .	我們依賴水 , 森林、沙漠、海洋 。
fishing , breeding , farming are still the world's foremost human occupations .	魚類、養殖、農業仍然是世界上敵人的行為 。
and what binds us together is far greater than what divides us .	我們一起合作的是我們一起合作的比方 , 比我們多 。
we all share the same need for the earth's gifts the same wish to rise above ourselves , and become better .	我們都分享相同的需求 , 相同的需求 , 讓地球更好 。
and yet we carry on raising walls to keep us apart .	然而 , 我們還在增加牆壁上 , 讓我們停止停止 。
today our greatest battle is to protect the natural offerings of our planet .	現今我們最偉大的蝙蝠是為了保護自然提供自然的提供 。
in less than 50 years we've altered it more thoroughly than in the entire history of mankind .	在五十年內 , 我們已經演化了更多的威脅 , 比在曼克林的歷史歷史歷史歷史上 。
half of the world's forests have vanished .	世界上有一半的森林有一半 。
water resources are running low .	水資源資源資源正在跑低 。
intensive farming is depleting soils .	強烈農業農場正在摧毀土壤 。
our energy sources are not sustainable .	我們的能量源並不永續 。
the climate is changing .	氣候正在改變 。
we are endangering ourselves .	我們終於在追求自己 。
we're only trying to improve our lives .	我們只試著改善我們的人生 。
but the wealth gaps are growing wider .	但財富崩潰的財富越來越多 。
we haven't yet understood that we're going at a much faster pace than the planet can sustain .	我們還沒有了解到 , 我們正在發生的速度比地球還要快 。
we know that solutions are available today .	我們知道解決方案是可可行的 。
we all have the power to change this trend for the better .	我們都有能力改變這個趨勢的趨勢 。
so what are we waiting for ?	那麼我們在等待什麼 ?
yab: luc besson is the producer of the movie .	yab:luc蜜蜂是電影製作者的生產者 。
but it is not a normal movie .	但這不是正常電影 。
the film is going to be distributed free .	電影將會被分佈免費的自由 。
this film has no copyright .	這部電影沒有版權 。
on the five of june , the environment day , everybody can download the movie on internet .	在茱莉亞 , 環境日常 , 每個人都可以在網路上下載的電影 。
the film is given for free to the distributor for tv and theater to show it the fifth of june .	電影是為了自由和劇院提供給電視和劇劇劇院的第五年 。
there is no business on this movie .	這部電影沒有商業 。
it is also available for school , cities , ngos and you .	這也是學校 , 城市、英國、英國、英國、英國、英國和你 。
we have to believe what we know .	我們必須相信我們所知的 。
let me tell you something .	讓我告訴各位一些東西 。
it's too late to be pessimistic really too late .	太遲了 , 這太遲了 。
we have all a part of the solutions .	我們都有解決方案 。
to finish , i would like to welcome the 4 , 700th baby born since the beginning of this talk .	為了最後 , 我想要歡迎4 , 700個嬰兒出生 , 700個嬰兒出生 。
merci beaucoup . i love you .	夏天 , 我愛你 。 我愛你們 。
illustrious jugglers the raspyni brothers show off their uncanny balance , agility , coordination and willingness to sacrifice . now , if you'll just stand completely still . . .	幻想家的青少年兄弟從未知平衡的平衡 , 同意、認知、認知、認知、認知、認知、認知、認知和平等 。
collaboration , entertainment , humor , physics	合作、娛樂、娛樂、幽默、物理學、物理學、物理學 。
the raspyni brothers juggle and jest	兔子和珍妮兄弟和猶太人 。
dan holzman: please throw out the beanbag chairs . here we go .	丹佛•霍爾曼:請請把蜜蜂丟掉 。 我們來了 。
barry friedman: there are all kinds of hightech chairs here today , but this is really , i think , when it reached its peak as far as ergonomics , comfort , design , flexibility . . .	bryfriedman:今天有各種高科技椅椅子 , 但我認為 , 當它接觸到它時 , 我覺得 , 當它接觸到它時 , 舒適 。
dh: now obviously , this is not something we do on our regular show ; it's something we just kind of learned for this , so we're going to try . but can we have some inspirational music for the beanbag chairs ?	dh:很顯然 , 這不是我們在我們的規律上做的事 , 所以我們要嘗試 。 但我們能試試試 。 但我們能試試試試試試驗 。 但我們能否否用一些啟發音樂 , 對吧 ?
bf: nice show , daniel , nice show . you are the man !	bf:好的節目 , 丹尼 , 你是男人 !
nice show . man , that was good !	很好的展示 。 男人 , 那是很好的 !
bf: you know , sometimes when people do those , they go all the way down .	bf:你知道 , 有時候人們會做這些事 , 他們走下去 。
you actually just did that .	你只是這樣做 。
that's the kind of extra effort that's gotten us where we are today . . .	這就是今天所謂的不舒服 , 我們今天所擁有的不起 。
dh: all right , let's show them something special .	dh:好的 , 咱們來展示一些特殊的東西 。
bf: . . . without a macarthur grant .	bf: , 沒有數學 , 沒有數學 。
yeah , look at this . you know , all kinds of different . . .	是的 , 看看這個 。 你知道 , 各種不同的 。
ted is about invention , let's be honest . right ? dh: yeah , it is .	ted是關於發明 , 讓我們誠實 。 對吧 ? dh:是的 。
bf: last night , michael moschen showed some juggling props he has invented and working on .	bf:昨晚 , michaelmochen展示了一些他發明和工作 。
right now , dan's going to show something he actually invented .	現在 , 丹尼會給他發明的東西 。
dh: a type of juggling i actually invented , right after i saw another juggler do it .	dh:我實際上發明了我發明了另一隻卵子 , 在我看到另一個卵子之後 , 我看到另一隻卵子 。
dh: and this is a small excerpt from a longer piece .	dh:這是一個更小的作品 。
folks , this is shaker cup juggling . it's not a showstopper but it certainly slows it down .	牛奶 , 這是鯊魚的蛋糕 , 不是一個節目 , 而是很慢地慢下來 。
bf: oh yeah , it does .	bf:哦 , 是的 。
bf: oh , daniel .	bf:喔 , 丹尼爾 。
bf: ok . dh: oh ! all right .	bf:好的 , 好吧 ! 好吧 。
i'm now pushing my luck: i'm skipping right to six cups .	現在我現在正在把我的幸運轉到六個杯子 。
in order to do six cups , i must have perfect control over three with my right hand .	為了做六個杯子 , 我一定有完美的控制力 。
bf: also three with his left .	bf:還有他的左邊 。
and now , all six cups . should i do it on the first try or should i miss once on purpose ?	現在 , 所有的六個杯子 , 我應該要做一次 , 或者我該怎麼做 ?
bf: first try ? once on purpose ?	bf:首先試試試試驗嗎 ?
dh: how about if i try first and then decide ?	dh:如果我第一次試著決定 ?
bf: good idea . let's leave that . we'll leave that door open .	bf:好點子 , 讓我們離開那門門門 。 我們會離開門 。
dh: he's looking at me .	dh:他看著我 。
bf: that's all right , he does that . all right .	bf:這是好的 , 他做到了 。 好 。 好吧 。
dh: oh ! it's time for richard's help .	dh:喔 ! 太好了 。
oh , good . all right .	喔 , 好吧 。 好吧 。 好吧 。
bf: you know , over the years , every year at the conference , it's kind of become a tradition for us to do something dangerous with richard . and we've always done something with the bullwhips in our act . it's funny , for years i did it with daniel holding balloons .	bf:你知道 , 過去幾年 , 在咖啡廳裡 , 它變成了我們為了做一些很危險的傳統 , 我們總是用錢來做一些危險的事情 。 我們一直都和丹尼爾•貝爾:我和丹尼爾保持二氧化碳 。
and then we thought , " how stupid . "	然後我們想: 「 愚蠢 」
dh: excuse me , could we work on the design of the microphone ?	dh:對我來說 , 我們能在麥克風設計上嗎 ?
bf: i think that's the next session .	布:我想這是下一個秘密 。
bf: yeah . and so we've actually found a way to incorporate richard in this .	bf:是的 , 所以我們發現了一種方法來處理這個方法 。
he actually assumes more of the danger in this .	他實際上假設更多危險 。
dh: please stand up , richard .	dh:請站起來 , 理查 。
dh: now richard , please . . .	dh:好 , 拜託 。
bf: ok , sorry .	bf:好 , 抱歉 。
dh: jesus christ . richard , please stand in front of me .	dh:耶穌基督徒 , 請站在我面前 。
richard wurman: can i say something ?	理查•沃曼:我能說什麼嗎 ?
rw: in all past years i've rehearsed with them , the things that have happened to me i have no idea what's going to happen and that's the truth .	rw:在過去幾年裡 , 我完全不知道他們會發生什麼事 , 那就是我不知道會發生什麼事 , 這就是真相 。
dh: all right , please stand here in front . . .	dh:好的 , 請站在這裡 。
god , i hate that . put your hands out like this , please .	上帝 , 我討厭這個 , 請舉手 。
bf: no , come stay up with him .	bf:不 , 來到他 。
dan used to actually hold them but now he's got you for protection .	丹尼以前以前一直保持他們 , 但現在他必須保護他們 。
it's kind of neat . ok .	有點像neat 。 好 。 好吧 。
dh: wow , you've been working out .	dh:哇 , 你一直在努力 。
bf: no , shut up !	bf:不 , 閉嘴 !
having a little bit of richard time . that's nice , that's good .	有一點錢花了一點錢 , 這是很好的 。
ok , here we go .	好 , 我們來到這裡 。
have him hold your wrist so i can . . .	有他拿著你的妻子 , 所以我可以 。
dh: please hold my wrist , will you . bf: yeah , hold this a minute .	dh:請請請舉手 , 請你 。 bf:好吧 , 請舉一下 。
ok , hold on .	好 , 請舉一下 。
bf: all those midyear phone calls are coming back to me now , richard .	bf:所有這些哺乳類手機叫回來我現在 , 理查 。
dh: so richard , what were we on the list ? like 1 , 020 ?	dh:理查 , 我們在清單上是什麼樣子 ? 例如1、020年 ?
bf: i think we were just outside .	bf:我想我們只是在外面 。
dh: sorry . bf: having some bad flashbacks .	dh:抱歉 。 bf:抱歉 , 有一些壞的垃圾 。
rw: do you want me to hold you or not ? dh: don't hold me that hard .	rw:你想要我握住你 , 不是嗎 ? dh:不要抱著我 。
bf: here we go , i'm taking it .	bf:在這裡 , 我們來了 。
dh: one more , one more .	dh:再來 , 更好 。
bf: we've got one more we're going to do .	bf:我們有更多我們要做的事 。
rw: do i get to hold them ?	rw:我要把它們放在一起嗎 ?
bf: you don't want to hold these , trust me .	bf:你不想拿這些信任我 。
dh: could you spread your legs a little bit ?	dh:你可以散播你的腿嗎 ?
bf: gloria , you want to do it ? it's very cool .	bf:gloria , 你想做嗎 ? 非常酷 。
one more try . man , i don't want to get too close .	第一 , 男人 , 我不想再接近 。
could you just push that ?	你能否把這點推到嗎 ?
dh: wow ! boy !	dh:哇 ! 男孩 !
bf: that's cool . i always wanted to try that .	bf:那很酷 , 我總是想試試這個 。
dh: let's jump this way , though .	dh:咱們來跳舞這個方向 。
now , we risked richard's life , it's only fair we risk our own lives .	現在 , 我們冒險花園的生命 , 只有公平我們冒險自己的生命 。
so to do that , i will juggle these three razorsharp sickles .	為了做到這一點 , 我會提醒這三種罕見的病菌 。
and if that wasn't enough , and judging by your response , it's not . . .	如果這不夠 , 判斷你的責任 , 而不是 。
dh: wow ! bf: hoping for a little more build .	dh:哇 ! 哇 ! ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
dh: true . barry . . .	dh:真的 , 芭蕾 。
bf: i'm going to run up behind him .	bf:我要站在他背後 。
dh: leap over my shoulder .	dh:在我的肩膀上 。
bf: up and over his shoulders .	bf:站起來 , 在他的肩膀上 。
dh: grab the blades in midair , land right there in a pool of blood . . .	dh:在德里達 , 在孟加拉 , 陸地在血液中 , 在一個血液中 。
impossible , you say ?	不可能 , 你說嗎 ?
bf: incredible , you say ?	bf:不可思議 , 你說嗎 ?
dh: why bother , you say ?	dh:為何 , 你說嗎 ?
bf: here we go .	bf:我們來到這裡 。
dh: just do it juggler boys , you say ?	dh:只是用蛋白質男孩 , 你說嗎 ?
bf: this guy , this guy invented air .	bf:這傢伙發明了空氣 。
dh: i think so , that's right .	dh:我想 , 這是對的 。
bf: he invented the pencil .	bf:他發明了鉛筆 。
dh: all right , we'll do this trick , but please remember it took us over 10 years to perfect .	dh:沒錯 , 我們會這麼做 , 但請記住它花了10年才能完美 。
bf: ten years to perfect , which you're about to see .	bf:十年來完美 , 你要看到的 。
dh: it's not that difficult , we just don't like to practice that much .	dh:這並不困難 , 我們只是不喜歡練習這件事 。
bf: no , it's a hassle . traveling too much .	bf:不 , 它是個旅行的旅行 。
actually , we will take a second to prove this could be fake that the blades are indeed razorsharp .	事實上 , 我們會花一秒鐘來證明這可能是假裝的 。
dh: will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage ?	dh:有人會把一個小農農場丟到台上 ?
or a virgin for a sacrifice ?	還是一個村莊的村莊嗎 ?
bf: no , she's got . . . farm animal .	bf:不 , 她有 。 農場動物 。 農夫 。
dh: do you have a small farm animal ?	dh:你有一小型的動物嗎 ?
just trying to play the odds . all right , here we go .	試試試試試試試試試試試試試試試試試驗
bf: over the top , over the top .	bf:在頂端 , 在上面 。
dh: how you feeling , barry ? you feeling all right ?	dh:你怎麼感覺 ? 你感覺好嗎 ? 你感覺好嗎 ?
bf: yeah , it's all right .	bf:是的 , 是的 。
dh: do you feel everything's ok ? the atmosphere , the . . .	dh:你覺得一切都沒錯嗎 ? 大氣 。
bf: yeah , a little sketchy .	bf:是的 , 有點懷疑 。
dh: everything up here's ok ?	dh:一切都沒錯嗎 ?
dh: then here we go .	dh:接下來我們去了 。
bf: this one's a little . . . who's doing the lights ? could you point that a little more directly into my eyeballs ? is that possible ? i can still see a little .	bf:這是個小的 , 誰正在做光 ? 你能指出一點點點點 , 可以指出我的眼睛嗎 ? 我還是看不到一點 。
dh: and turn up the intensity ; we're still pink in the middle .	dh:然後我們還是在中間 。 我們仍然在在中間 。
we went too far .	我們太遠了 。
bf: yeah , it's too far . it's too much of a visual .	bf:是的 , 太遠了 。 它太遠了 。
the design of the body is a whole different thing .	身體的設計是完全不同的 。
dh: ready , barry ? bf: over the top .	dh:準備好嗎 ? bf:在頂端 。
dh: may we have our jumping music please ?	dh:我們可能有跳舞音樂愉悅嗎 ?
may we have it a bit louder ?	我們可能有一點損失嗎 ?
bf: they're a good crew ! whoa !	bf:他們是個很好的衣服 ! 哇 !
dh: whoa , sorry . all right .	dh:哇 , 抱歉 。 好吧 。 好吧 。
bf: we're going on .	bf:我們正在上去 。
dh: all right , we'll try again .	dh:沒錯 , 我們會再試一次 。
bf: all right ? oh my gosh . oh .	bf:好嗎 ? 喔 , 我的黃金 。 喔 。
dh: all right , here we go . sorry about that .	dh:好 , 我們來了 。 抱歉 。
bf: i thought i had the hard part . ok .	bf:我以為我有困難的部分 。 好 。 好吧 。
dh: whenever you're ready .	dh:當你準備準備好了 。
bf: there we go !	bf:我們去了 !
all right , get up ! come on and dance ! dh: dance , come on . bf: come on and dance !	好 , 上帝 ! 來吧 ! 來吧 ! 舞蹈 ! 舞蹈 ! 舞蹈 !
somebody dance ! come on !	有人跳舞 ! 來吧 !
wow , wow , ok , stop .	哇 , 哇 , 好 , 停下來 。
weird , no one dances . we're two guys doing this .	奇怪 , 沒有人舞蹈 , 我們有兩個人在做這件事 。
i think that's uncomfortable for everyone .	我認為這對每個人都不舒服 。
dh: the french judge . . .	dh:法國法官法官 。
bf: one more quick thing .	bf:一個更快的事物 。
dh: the french judge gives it a 5 . 2 .	dh:法國法官給它5.2.2 。
bf: well , you know . . .	bf:嗯 , 你知道 。
dh: there you go . . . bf: oh , yeah . another one coming in .	dh:你去了 。 bf:喔 , 是啊 , 另一個來到這裡 。
dh: tell them about our bio and stuff .	dh:告訴他們我們的生物和東西 。
bf: yeah . in our bio , some of you may have read that we've won two world juggling championships .	bf:是的 , 在我們的生物 , 有些人可能讀到我們贏了兩個世界 ,
and believe it or not , you don't win juggling champions for doing things with bullwhips or shaker cups .	相信 , 不論 , 你不用用在布萊塢或鯊魚杯咖啡杯或鯊魚杯杯 。
we're going to show you right now an excerpt from a routine that we used to wipe out the other juggling team competition .	我們現在要展示給你們看一個更遠的路徑 , 我們以前常常常把團隊放到另一端的團隊競爭 。
dh: i know what you're thinking: other juggling teams must really suck .	dh:我知道你在想什麼:其他的團隊一定真的很幸運 。
bf: juggling's got a bad rap .	bf:掙扎很糟 。
dh: but wait , barry , there's still one more club lying there by my foot .	dh:但等等 , 抱歉 , 還是有更多的俱樂部 。
and look , it has a twin !	看看 , 它有一個小鎮 !
dh: there's still one more by my foot .	dh:還有我的腳趾仍然有更多 。
what do you want me to do with it ?	你想我怎麼做 ?
bf: richard you tell him , it's your last year .	bf:理查你告訴他 , 這是你的過去一年 。
dh: that's a pretty good setup , richard .	dh:這是很好的組合 , 理ard 。
bf: yeah , it's a good setup . that's a big setup .	bf:是的 , 這是個很好的組合 。 這是個很大的組合 。
dh: you can't get any better than that . all right . what i will do: i will use my pantherlike reflexes .	dh:你不能更好 。 好吧 , 好吧 。 我會用我的鋼琴反射反應爐 。
dh: i got that to reach down and grab that club in my grip of steel .	dh:我要到下去 , 抓住這塊衣服裡 。
dh: i touched it , barry . that should be enough .	dh:我去觸摸它 , 這應該是夠的 。
bf: it's progress , that's the thing .	bf:這是進步的進步 。
dh: how about that ? i'll do it again .	dh:這是怎麼回事 ? 我會再做一次 。
oh wait , it's on your side , barry .	喔 , 等一下 , 它在你的邊緣 。
and it's awfully windy over there .	這是個很糟糕的風力 。
bf: it is , it's weird . you wouldn't think it would affect half the stage , but it is . it's weird .	bf:這是很奇怪 , 你不認為它會影響一半階段 , 但它是 , 很奇怪 。
watch this: what i'm going to do is slide the seventh one onto my foot .	看這個:我要做的是把第七點放在我的腳上 。
dh: wow ! what a great trick , barry !	dh:哇 ! 哇 ! 哇 ! 啊 !
oh , look how it lies there .	喔 , 看看它在哪裡 。
oh , barry , is there nothing you can't do ?	喔 , 芭莉 , 沒辦法做嗎 ?
you are my hero . you're my jim shea , jr .	你是我的英雄 , 你是我jima、jr.
bf: from my foot , i'll attempt to kick the seventh club . here we go .	bf:從我的腳踏到第七點 , 我們來到這裡第七點鐘 。 我們走了 。
dh: where , barry ? where ? tell us , barry .	dh:在哪裡 ? 哪裡 ? 告訴我們 , 芭莉 。
[unclear] eagerly awaits your next syllable . what will it be ?	你的下一步 , 你的下一步會怎麼辦 ?
what gem of knowledge ?	知識知識是什麼 ?
what pearl of wisdom ?	智慧的智慧是什麼樣子 ?
do you want to buy a vowel , barry ?	你想買一台火車 , 酒吧 ?
is that your final answer ?	你的最後一個答案嗎 ?
bf: all right ! you have to turn off the tv from time to time .	bf:沒錯 , 你必須從時間轉到時間 。
dh: i do , i do .	dh:我要做 。
bf: from my foot , the kick up in the seven .	bf:從我的腳上開始 。
dh: we will juggle seven .	dh:我們會跳七歲 。
bf: from six to seven . dh: that's a world's record . bf: really ? dh: for us .	bf:從六到7歲到7歲 , dh:真的嗎 ? 對我們來說 , 對我們來說 。
dh: whenever you're ready there , big guy .	dh:當你準備好了 , 大傢伙 。
put your tongue away , barry .	把你的舌頭放到 , 抱歉 。
bf: oh , oh , whoa .	bf:喔 , 喔 , 哇 , 誰 。
dh: please , please stay seated . stay seated . thank you .	dh:請請請請請留下來 。 謝謝 。 謝謝 。 謝謝 。
because now , to make this twice as difficult , we'll juggle the seven clubs back . . .	因為現在 , 為了讓這兩倍困難 , 我們會建議七個俱樂部 。
dh: . . . to back .	dh:
bf: thank you , that's it .	bf:謝謝你 , 那是這樣 。
bf: thank you guys !	bf:謝謝你們 !
dh: thank you very much !	dh:非常謝謝你 !
in this accessible talk from tedxboston , richard resnick shows how cheap and fast genome sequencing is about to turn health care upside down .	在tedxboton的演講中 , 理查尼克•尼克•尼克•尼克•尼克•尼克•安德雷克說: 「 健康照護 」 。
dna , biotech , health care , science , technology	dna、健康照護、科學、科學、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、
richard resnick: welcome to the genomic revolution	理查•尼克:歡迎到基因革命 。
ladies and gentlemen , i present to you the human genome .	女士們 , 我向各位展示人類基因組 。
chromosome one , top left .	染色體第一 , 左邊 。
bottom right are the sex chromosomes .	底部是性染色體染色體 。
women have two copies of that big x chromosome ; men have the x and , of course , that small copy of the y .	婦女有兩個複製基因組 , 當然 , 男人有x和x , 當然 , 那個小的複製 。
sorry boys , but it's just a tiny little thing that makes you different .	抱歉男孩 , 但這只是個小東西讓你不同 。
so if you zoom in on this genome , then what you see , of course , is this double helix structure the code of life spelled out with these four biochemical letters , or we call them bases , right: a , c , g and t .	所以 , 如果你在這個基因組中 , 你會看到的 , 當然 , 這是這雙雙胞胎結構的編碼碼碼碼碼碼碼碼碼 , 或者我們稱它們為蝙蝠 , 或者我們稱它們為蝙蝠 , 等等 。
how many are there in the human genome ? three billion .	在人類基因組中有多少人基因組 ?
is that a big number ?	這是個大數字嗎 ?
well , everybody can throw around big numbers .	嗯 , 每個人都可以在大數字上瀏覽 。
but in fact , if i were to place one base on each pixel of this 1280 by 800 resolution screen , we would need 3 , 000 screens to take a look at the genome .	但事實上 , 如果我要把這個12800英尺 , 每一塊八百英尺 , 我們需要三千個螢幕 , 我們需要三千個螢幕來看看基因組 。
so it's really quite big .	所以這真的很大 。
and perhaps because of its size , a group of people all , by the way , with y chromosomes decided they would want to sequence it .	也許是因為它大小的 , 一群人都決定他們想要搜尋它 。
and so 15 years , actually , and about four billion dollars later , the genome was sequenced and published .	所以15年來 , 事實上 , 基因組有大約四十億美元 , 基因組被序列和發表 。
in 2003 , the final version was published , and they keep working on it .	2003年 , 最後一個版本已經發表了 , 他們繼續努力 。
that was all done on a machine that looks like this .	這一切都是在一台機器上做的事 。
it costs about a dollar for each base a very slow way of doing it .	它花了大約一塊錢 , 花了一塊非常慢的方式 。
well folks , i'm here to tell you that the world has completely changed and none of you know about it .	嗯 , 我來告訴各位 , 世界已經完全改變了 , 沒有人知道它 。
so now what we do is we take a genome , we make maybe 50 copies of it , we cut all those copies up into little 50base reads , and then we sequence them , massively parallel .	所以現在我們做的是基因組組 , 也許50個元件 , 我們都把所有這些複製成的五十個小型閱讀 , 然後我們搜尋它們 , 大量地癱瘓了 。
and then we bring that into software , and we reassemble it and we tell you what the story is .	然後我們把這個軟體帶到軟體 , 我們重新組合在一起 , 我們告訴各位這個故事是什麼 。
and so just to give you a picture of what this looks like , the human genome project: 3 gigabases , right .	所以 , 為了給各位一個照片的照片 , 人類基因組計畫:3gigabas , 對吧 ?
one run on one of these machines: 200 gigabases in a week .	其中一台機器:200gigabasasaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
and that 200 is going to change to 600 this summer , and there's no sign of this pace slowing .	2000年夏天會改變到600個夏天 , 沒有這條停車慢慢下來 。
so the price of a base , to sequence a base , has fallen 100 million times .	所以 , 一個蝙蝠的價格 , 要序列一百萬倍 。
that's the equivalent of you filling up your car with gas in 1998 , waiting until 2011 , and now you can drive to jupiter and back twice .	這是你在1998年 , 在1998年 , 等到2011年 , 等到2011年 , 現在你可以駕駛到木星 。
world population , pc placements , the archive of all the medical literature , moore's law , the old way of sequencing , and here's all the new stuff .	世界人口、監禁、監禁、摩爾法律、摩爾法律、摩爾法律、舊金山的舊方法 。
guys , this is a log scale ; you don't typically see lines that go up like that .	各位 , 這是邏輯的規模 , 你通常看不到那樣的線索 。
so the worldwide capacity to sequence human genomes is something like 50 , 000 to 100 , 000 human genomes this year .	所以 , 全世界的基因組 , 每年有500000人基因組 , 今年就有5000人基因組 。
and we know this based on the machines that are being placed .	我們知道這個基礎的機器 。
this is expected to double , triple or maybe quadruple year over year for the foreseeable future .	這是預期未來的懷疑 , 三月或引力的未來一年 。
in fact , there's one lab in particular that represents 20 percent of all that capacity .	事實上 , 這裡有一個實驗室 , 特別代表20%的能力 。
it's called the beijing genomics institute .	它叫做 「 渴望基因組 」 。
the chinese are absolutely winning this race to the new moon , by the way .	中國的中國絕對是贏得這個種族 , 順便一提 。
what does this mean for medicine ?	這對醫學有什麼意義 ?
so a woman is age 37 .	所以女人是37歲 。
she presents with stage 2 estrogen receptorpositive breast cancer .	她和階段2最高的氧氣接受器官 。
she is treated with surgery , chemotherapy and radiation .	她和手術有關治療手術 , 化療和輻射 。
two years later , she comes back with stage three c ovarian cancer .	兩年後 , 她回來了三個c卵巢癌 。
unfortunately , treated again with surgery and chemotherapy .	不幸的是 , 治療手術和化化療 。
she comes back three years later at age 42 with more ovarian cancer , more chemotherapy .	她回到三年後 , 她回來了42歲的癌症 , 更便宜 。
six months later , she comes back with acute myeloid leukemia .	六個月後 , 她回來了我的蜘蛛絲 。
she goes into respiratory failure and dies eight days later .	她走進啟發失敗 , 八天後 , 八天後就死了 。
so first , the way in which this woman was treated , in as little as 10 years , will look like bloodletting .	首先 , 在這個女人治療中 , 大約十年後 , 看起來像血液一樣 。
and it's because of people like my colleague , rick wilson , at the genome institute at washington university , who decided to take a look at this woman postmortem .	這是因為我同事和我同事一樣的同事 , rickwilson , 他決定在華盛頓大學大學的基因組 。
and he sequenced , he took skin cells , healthy skin , and cancerous bone marrow , and he sequenced the whole genomes of both of them in a couple of weeks , no big deal .	他搜索皮膚細胞 , 他拿了皮膚細胞、健康皮膚、健康的骨髓 , 他將整個基因組組組組成整個基因組組組組組組成 , 沒有大事 。
and then he compared those two genomes in software , and what he found , among other things , was a deletion , a 2 , 000base deletion across three billion bases in a particular gene called tp53 .	然後他把這兩個基因組組組組組成 , 他發現了 , 另一件事 , 他發現了 , 一個偵測 , 叫做tp53億個鹼基在一個叫做tp53 。
if you have this deleterious mutation in this gene , you're 90 percent likely to get cancer in your life .	如果你有這個基因突變 , 你就有90%可能會得到癌症 。
so unfortunately , this doesn't help this woman , but it does have severe , profound if you will , implications to her family .	所以不幸的是 , 這個女人沒有幫助這個女人 , 但它有秘密 , 如果你願意 , 改善她的家人 。
i mean , if they have the same mutation , and they get this genetic test , and they understand it , then they can go and get regular screens , and they can catch cancer early and potentially live a significantly longer life .	我是說 , 如果他們有同樣的突變 , 他們就會得到這個基因測試 , 然後他們了解它 , 然後他們可以去修復癌症 。
let me introduce you now to the beery twins , diagnosed with cerebral palsy at the age of two .	讓我介紹一下啤酒、診斷、診斷和慶祝心理心理心理治療 。
their mom is a very brave woman who didn't believe that the symptoms weren't matching up , and through some heroic efforts and a lot of internet searching , she was able to convince the medical community that , in fact , they had something else .	他們的母親是非常勇敢的女人 , 他們不相信 , 症狀並不相信症狀的症狀 , 透過某種英雄和許多網路搜尋 , 事實上 , 她可以說服別人的醫療社區 , 事實上 , 他們有其他東西 。
what they had was doparesponsive dystonia .	他們有責任的dytoniaia 。
and so they were given ldopa , and their symptoms did improve , but they weren't totally asymptomatic .	所以 , 他們被告知了他們的症狀 , 他們的症狀並沒有改善 , 但他們並不完全合理 。
turns out the gentleman in this picture is a guy named joe beery , who was lucky enough to be the cio of a company called life technologies .	結果發現這張照片是一位名叫joery , 他很幸運的是 , 他很幸運的是 , 叫做生命技術技術 。
they're one of the two companies that makes these massive whole genome sequencing tools .	他們是兩個公司之一 , 讓這些巨大的基因組組組組成工具 。
and so what he did was he got his kids sequenced .	所以他做了什麼事 , 他帶他的孩子序列 。
and what they found was a series of mutations in a gene called spr , which is responsible for producing serotonin , among other things .	他們發現了一系列突變的基因組 , 叫做春天 , 這是責任 , 產生反應的反應 。
so on top of ldopa , they gave these kids a serotonin precursor drug , and they're effectively normal now .	所以 , 在尼亞的頂端 , 他們給了這些孩子麻痺藥物 , 他們很常常常常常常見 。
guys , this would never have happened without whole genome sequencing .	傢伙 , 這永遠永遠不會發生任何基因組 。
and at the time this was a few years ago it cost $100 , 000 .	幾年前 , 這是幾年前它成本的成本 。
today it's $10 , 000 . next year it's $1 , 000 .	現在 , 今年這是一萬美金 。 今年是一萬美金 。
the year after it's $100 , give or take a year .	一年後 , 還是一年 , 或一年 。
that's how fast this is moving .	這就是移動的速度 。
so here's little nick likes batman and squirt guns .	所以這有點像蝙蝠俠和安靜槍枝 。
and it turns out nick shows up at the children's hospital with this distended belly like a famine victim .	結果發現 , nick在兒童醫院的醫院裡 , 像一種疫苗受害者一樣 。
and it's not that he's not eating , it's that when he eats , his intestine basically opens up and feces spill out into his gut .	而不是他吃的時候 , 而是當他吃的時候 , 他的最基本上開放 , 基本上開放 , 他的腸道中開放 。
so a hundred surgeries later , he looks at his mom and says , " mom , please pray for me . i'm in so much pain . "	所以 , 幾百位手術後 , 他看著他的母親說: 「 媽 , 請我 。 我很痛苦 。 」
his pediatrician happens to have a background in clinical genetics and he has no idea what's going on , but he says , " let's get this kid's genome sequenced . "	他的心理學家會發生什麼事 , 他不知道要發生什麼事 , 但他說: 「 咱們得到這個孩子正在發生什麼事 , 但他說: 「 咱們得到這個孩子的基因組 」
and what they find is a singlepoint mutation in a gene responsible for controlling programmed cell death .	他們發現的是基因反應單一的基因反應 , 用來控制細胞死亡 。
so the theory is that he's having some immunological reaction to what's going on to the food essentially , and that's a natural reaction , which causes some programmed cell death .	所以理論的理論是他有一些免疫反應的反應 , 基本上是 , 基本上 , 這是自然反應爐的反應 , 造成一些計畫的自然反應 。
but the gene that regulates that down is broken .	但下面的基因 , 下面是破壞的 。
and so this informs , among other things , of course , a treatment for bone marrow transplant , which he undertakes .	當然 , 這種改革 , 當然 , 另一件事 , 當然 , 一個骨髓移植器官的治療方式 。
and after nine months of grueling recovery , he's now eating steak with a1 sauce .	在九個月後 , 他正在吃驚後 , 他現在吃了一份sauce 。
the prospect of using the genome as a universal diagnostic is upon us today .	使用基因組作為一個大學診斷 , 現今的基因組就是我們今天的 。
today , it's here .	今天 , 它在這裡 。
and what it means for all of us is that everybody in this room could live an extra five , 10 , 20 years just because of this one thing .	這意味著我們所有人都能生活在這個房間裡的人都能活著五、10、10、20年 , 只是因為這一件事 。
which is a fantastic story , unless you think about humanity's footprint on the planet and our ability to keep up food production .	這是個很棒的故事 , 除非你想到人類的足跡和我們的能力來保持食物生產 。
so it turns out that the very same technology is also being used to grow new lines of corn , wheat , soybean and other crops that are highly tolerant of drought , of flood , of pests and pesticides .	所以結果發現 , 相同的科技也被用來培養新的線條 , 海豚和其他商店 , 和其他商店 , 最高的農場 , 森林和殺蟲劑 。
now look , as long as we continue to increase the population , we're going to have to continue to grow and eat genetically modified foods , and that's the only position that i'll take today .	看看 , 隨著我們持續增加人口 , 我們將會必須繼續成長 , 吃基因上唯一的位置 , 那就是我今天要做的唯一的位置 。
unless there's anybody in the audience that would like to volunteer to stop eating ?	除非有任何人 , 觀眾會想停止吃嗎 ?
none , not one .	不 , 不 , 不是人 。
this is a typewriter , a staple of every desktop for decades .	這是數十年來 , 每位桌桌子都有一堆桌子 。
and in fact , the typewriter was essentially deleted by this thing .	事實上 , 基本上 , 基本上就是這個東西 。
and then more general versions of word processors came about .	接著 , 更普遍的版本 。
but ultimately , it was a disruption on top of a disruption .	但最終 , 最終 , 這是個殘疾的頂端 。
it was bob metcalfe inventing the ethernet and the connection of all these computers that fundamentally changed everything .	它是炸彈的甲烷發明 , 以及所有這些電腦的連結 , 基本上改變一切 。
and suddenly we had netscape , and we had yahoo and we had , indeed , the entire dotcom bubble .	突然間 , 我們有ncapepe , 我們有了yahoo , 全部的成果 。
not to worry though , that was quickly rescued by the ipod , facebook and , indeed , angry birds .	不擔心 , 這很快就被伊波蘭、臉書、臉書、憤怒、憤怒、憤怒的鳥類 。
look , this is where we are today .	看看 , 這是我們今天在哪裡 。
this is the genomic revolution today . this is where we are .	這是現今基因革命的革命 。 這是我們所在的地方 。
so what i'd like you to consider is: what does it mean when these dots don't represent the individual bases of your genome , but they connect to genomes all across the planet ?	所以 , 我要你們考慮的是:當這些狗並不代表你的基因組 , 但他們與地球各地各地的基因組 , 但它們連結到地球各地各地的基因組 ?
so i just recently had to buy life insurance .	所以我最近才必須買生活在保險中買生命 。
and i was required to answer: a . i have never had a genetic test , b . i've had one , here you go , and c . i've had one and i'm not telling .	我必須回答:一個 。 我從來沒有基因測試 , 我有一 , 在這裡 , 這裡有一 , 你走了 。 我沒有告訴你們 。
thankfully , i was able to answer a , and i say that honestly in case my life insurance agent is listening .	非常謝地 , 我可以回答一個例子 , 我說 , 在我的人生中 , 很榮幸的是聆聽 。
but what would have happened if i had said c ?	但如果我說過cc ?
consumer applications for genomics , they will flourish .	消費者申請基因組應用程式 , 他們會發揮 。
do you want to see whether you're genetically compatible with your girlfriend ? sure .	你想看看你是基因上和你的女友嗎 ? 當然 。
dna sequencing on your iphone ? there's an app for that .	dna搜尋你的iphone嗎 ? 有一個應用程式 。
personalized genomic massage anyone ?	個人化化的基因質量嗎 ?
there's already a lab today that tests for allele 334 of the avpr1 gene , the socalled cheating gene .	今天已經有一個實驗室 , 測試了343444個基因 , 所以計算了基因 。
so anybody who's here today with your significant other , just turn over to them and swab their mouth , send it to the lab and you'll know for sure .	所以 , 今天沒有人跟你的大人分享 , 只是轉向他們和嘴巴 , 把它們送到實驗室 , 然後你就會知道 。
do you really want to elect a president whose genome suggests cardiomyopathy ?	你真的想要選一個總統的基因組 , 誰會想選出基因組的總統 ?
now think of it , it's 2016 and the leading candidate releases not only her four years of back tax returns , but also her personal genome .	現在想想看 , 它是2016年 , 領導人不僅僅僅四年後 , 領導人不僅僅是她個人基因組 。
and it looks really good .	看起來很棒 。
and then she challenges all of her competitors to do the same .	然後她挑戰所有她的競爭者都去做同樣的事 。
do you think that's not going to happen ?	你認為這不會發生嗎 ?
do you think it would have helped john mccain ?	你認為它會幫助約翰麥克林嗎 ?
how many people in the audience have the last name resnick like me ? raise your hand .	觀眾裡有多少人 , 像我一樣的最後一個名字嗎 ? 舉手 。
typically , there's one or two .	通常 , 有一或兩者 。
so my father's father was one of 10 resnick brothers .	所以我父親的父親是10個renick兄弟 。
they all hated each other .	他們都討厭彼此 。
and they all moved to different parts of the planet .	他們都搬到地球不同的部分 。
so it's likely that i'm related to every resnick that i ever meet , but i don't know .	所以 , 可能是我第一次見過的每一位退休 , 但我不知道 。
but imagine if my genome were deidentified , sitting in software , and a third cousin's genome was also sitting there , and there was software that could compare these two and make these associations .	但想像一下 , 如果我的基因組被摧毀 , 坐在軟體中 , 第三個核子是坐在那邊 , 可以把這兩個軟體組合在一起 , 可以把這兩組組組合起來 。
not hard to imagine . my company has software that does this right now .	不難想像一下 , 我的公司已經軟體了 。
and so imagine one more thing: that that software is able to ask both parties for mutual consents , " would you be willing to meet your third cousin ? "	所以 , 想像一下 , 軟體可以問兩個部分:那軟體可以邀請你的第三個核心嗎 ? 」
and if we both say yes , voila ! welcome to chromosomally linkedin .	如果我們說的 , 是的 , 歐盟 ! 歡迎到染染色體 。
now this is probably a good thing , right ?	這可能是個好事 , 對吧 ?
you have bigger clan gatherings and so on .	你有更大的掃描和等等 。
but maybe it's a bad thing as well .	但也許是件壞事 。
how many fathers in the room ? raise your hands .	有多少父親在房間裡 ? 舉手 。
okay , so experts think that one to three percent of you are not actually the father of your child .	好吧 , 所以專家認為有1%的人不是你的孩子的父親 。
look these genomes , these 23 chromosomes , they don't in any way represent the quality of our relationships or the nature of our society at least not yet .	看看這些基因組 , 這23種染色體 , 他們沒有任何代表我們的關係或社會的本質 , 至少我們還沒有 。
and like any new technology , it's really in humanity's hands to wield it for the betterment of mankind , or not .	像任何新的科技 , 它真的是人類的手段 , 讓它更好 , 或不是 。
and so i urge you all to wake up and to tune in and to influence the genomic revolution that's happening all around you .	所以我向各位介紹一下基因革命 , 來影響你周圍的基因革命 , 影響你周遭發生的 。
daniel kraft demos his marrow miner a new device that quickly harvests lifesaving bone marrow with minimal pain to the donor . he emphasizes that the adult stem cells found in bone marrow can be used to treat many terminal conditions , from parkinson's to heart disease .	丹尼爾•克拉夫•卡拉斯•卡拉特 , 很快的新裝置 , 讓捐贈者在骨髓中最低的幹細胞 , 從帕金森林中發現 , 骨髓可以被用來治療許多詞彙來治療許多藥物 。
biology , biotech , health , health care , medicine , science , technology	生物技術、健康照護、健康照護、醫療、醫學、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、
daniel kraft invents a better way to harvest bone marrow	丹尼爾•卡拉發明了一個更好的方法來保護骨髓 。
so i am a pediatric cancer doctor and stemcell researcher at stanford university where my clinical focus has been bone marrow transplantation .	所以我是個精神癌醫生和幹幹細胞研究人員在史丹佛大學的研究人員 , 我的臨床專注於骨髓移植 。
now , inspired by jill bolte taylor last year , i didn't bring a human brain , but i did bring a liter of bone marrow .	現在 , 由jillboltellbolteylorgley的啟發 , 但我並沒有把一個人帶到骨髓 。
and bone marrow is actually what we use to save the lives of tens of thousands of patients , most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphoma and some other diseases .	骨髓是事實上我們用數千個病人的生命生命生命生活中 , 大部分的人都有進步 , 像烏托邦和其他疾病一樣 。
so , a few years ago , i'm doing my transplant fellowship at stanford .	幾年前 , 我在史丹佛大學的移植能力 。
i'm in the operating room . we have bob here , who is a volunteer donor .	我在手術室裡 , 我們這裡有炸彈捐贈者捐贈者捐贈者 。
we're sending his marrow across the country to save the life of a child with leukemia .	我們把他的火星傳送到國家的生命 , 來拯救孩子的生命 。
so actually how do we harvest this bone marrow ?	所以實際上 , 我們要如何把這個骨髓移除呢 ?
well we have a whole o . r . team , general anesthesia , nurses , and another doctor across from me .	嗯 , 我們有一個完整的奧秘亞、軍隊、護士、護士、另一位醫生跨越我 。
bob's on the table , and we take this sort of small needle , you know , not too big .	鮑勃在桌上 , 我們把這類小的需求 , 你知道 , 不是太大 。
and the way we do this is we basically place this through the soft tissue , and kind of punch it into the hard bone , into the tuchus that's a technical term and aspirate about 10 mls of bone marrow out , each time , with a syringe .	而我們所做的就是透過軟體組織的軟體組織 , 把它放在硬骨頭 , 進入硬骨頭 , 進入硬體 , 直到10磅骨頭 , 每次 , 每次 , 每次 , 每次 , 每次 , 每次 , 都有一塊骨骼 。
and hand it off to the nurse . she squirts it into a tin .	把護士拿到護士 , 她放進了一步 。
hands it back to me . and we do that again and again .	把它回來了 , 我們再次做一次 。
about 200 times usually .	大約有200倍 。
and by the end of this my arm is sore , i've got a callus on my hand , let alone bob , whose rear end looks something more like this , like swiss cheese .	在我的手臂結束時 , 我有一名叫穆斯林 , 讓老闆看起來像這樣的東西一樣 , 就像瑞士一樣 。
so i'm thinking , you know , this procedure hasn't changed in about 40 years .	所以我想 , 你知道 , 這個成功並沒有改變 , 大約40年 。
and there is probably a better way to do this .	可能有更好的方法來做這件事 。
so i thought of a minimally invasive approach , and a new device that we call the marrow miner .	所以我想到一個最低的方法 , 而一個新的裝置 , 我們稱之為 「 群眾 」 的新裝置 。
and the marrow miner , the way it works is shown here .	而火星礦礦工 , 它的運作方式是展示的 。
our standard seethrough patient .	我們的標準看病人 。
instead of entering the bone dozens of times , we enter just once , into the front of the hip or the back of the hip .	而不是進入骨骼的骨頭 , 我們一旦進入山丘或背部的背後 , 或背部的背景 。
and we have a flexible , powered catheter with a special wire loop tip that stays inside the crunchy part of the marrow and follows the contours of the hip , as it moves around .	我們有一個很棒的 , 強力的洞穴 , 用一個特殊的圓圈 , 留在crupn的一部分 , 隨著它移動到山丘裡 , 隨著它移動 。
so it enables you to very rapidly aspirate , or suck out , rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole .	所以它可以讓你非常快地啟發 , 或突然間 , 豐富的骨髓 , 富骨髓非常快 。
we can do multiple passes through that same entry .	我們可以透過同樣的句子通過同樣的句子 。
and , so , very quickly , bob can just get one puncture , local anesthesia , and do this harvest as an outpatient .	所以 , 很快地 , 鮑勃可以得到一個懲罰 , 當地的麻醉劑 , 當地的傷害 。
so i did a few prototypes . i got a small little grant at stanford .	所以我做了幾張照片 , 我拿了一小塊小塊 ,
and played around with this a little bit .	玩這個小一點點 。
and our team members developed this technology .	我們的團隊成員開發了這項技術 。
and eventually we got two large animals , and pig studies .	最後 , 我們有兩個大動物 , 豬的研究 。
and we found , to our surprise , that we not only got bone marrow out , but we got 10 times the stem cell activity in the marrow from the marrow miner , compared to the normal device .	我們發現 , 對於我們的驚訝 , 我們不僅僅有骨髓 , 我們得到了10倍的幹細胞活動活動 , 我們得到了10倍的幹細胞活動 。
this device was just fda approved in the last year .	這裝置只是在過去的一年裡 。
here is a live patient . you can see it following the flexible curves around .	這是個肝臟病患 , 你可以看到它在周圍 。
there will be two passes here , in the same patient , from the same hole .	在同一個洞穴裡 , 同一個洞穴 , 從同樣的洞穴中 。
this was done under local anesthesia , as an outpatient .	這是當地的麻醉劑 , 作為外科醫生 。
and we got , again , about three to six times more stem cells than the standard approach done on the same patient .	我們又再一次 , 大約有三到六倍的幹細胞比標準的方法 。
so why should you care ? bone marrow is a very rich source of adult stem cells .	所以 , 你為什麼要關心 ? 骨髓是一個非常豐富的幹細胞 。
you all know about embryonic stem cells .	你們都知道胚胎幹細胞 。
they've got great potential but haven't yet entered clinical trials .	他們有很好的潛力 , 但還沒有進入臨床試驗 。
adult stem cells are throughout our body , including the bloodforming stem cells in our bone marrow , which we've been using as a form of stemcell therapy for over 40 years .	成人幹細胞在我們的骨髓中 , 包括血液的幹細胞 , 包括我們骨髓的幹細胞 , 我們一直使用作為一種幹細胞的形式 。
in the last decade there's been an explosion of use of bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient's other diseases such as heart disease , vascular disease , orthopedics , tissue engineering , even in neurology to treat parkinson's and diabetes .	在過去十年間 , 有一大堆骨幹細胞 , 來治療病人的其他疾病 , 例如心臟疾病 , 或藥物 , 甚至在神經元中 , 甚至在神經元上治療公園 , 甚至在神經元中 。
we've just come out , we're commercializing , this year , generation 2 . 0 of the marrow miner .	我們剛剛出去 , 我們是商業化的 , 今年 , 2.0.0.0.0.0.0.
the hope is that this gets more stem cells out , which translates to better outcomes .	希望的是 , 這個希望讓更多幹細胞更好的結果 , 轉換成更好的結果 。
it may encourage more people to sign up to be potential livesaving bone marrow donors .	可能鼓勵更多人去簽名捐贈者的捐贈者 。
it may even enable you to bank your own marrow stem cells , when you're younger and healthier , to use in the future should you need it .	甚至可能你要銀行自己的火星幹細胞 , 當你年輕、更健康、更健康、更健康 , 利用未來你需要的 。
and ultimately and here's a picture of our bone marrow transplant survivors , who come together for a reunion each year at stanford .	最終 , 這是我們骨髓移植者的照片 , 每年都聚在一起 , 他一起為一群人溝通的倖存者 。
hopefully this technology will let us have more of these survivors in the future .	希望這科技會讓我們有更多這些倖存者的存者 。
physicist and surfer garrett lisi presents a controversial new model of the universe that just maybe answers all the big questions . if nothing else , it's the most beautiful 8dimensional model of elementary particles and forces you've ever seen .	物理學家和urfergarretlitsssetlis和urfergarret的宇宙模型 , 可能回答所有大問題 。 如果沒有什麼 , 它是最美麗的8度 。
physics , science , technology	物理、科學、科學、科技、科技、技術 。
garrett lisi on his theory of everything	伽利略在他的理論上 。
whoa , dude . check out those killer equations . sweet .	哇 , 哇 ! 看看那些殺人方程式 。 瑞典 。
actually , for the next 18 minutes i'm going to do the best i can to describe the beauty of particle physics without equations .	事實上 , 接下來的18分鐘我要做最好的 , 我可以描述粒子物理大象物理學的美麗 。
it turns out there's a lot we can learn from coral .	結果發現 , 有很多我們可以從珊瑚身上學到的 。
coral is a very beautiful and unusual animal .	珊瑚是非常美麗的動物 。
each coral head consists of thousand of individual polyps .	每個珊瑚頭頭部都有數千個個人的頭部 。
these polyps are continually budding and branching into genetically identical neighbors .	這些可能是持續虐待和鳥類的鄰居 , 將基因移植到基因上 。
if we imagine this to be a hyperintelligent coral , we can single out an individual and ask him a reasonable question .	如果我們想像一下這是個超級的珊瑚 , 我們可以單單獨的角度 , 問他一個有理由的問題來問他一個理由的問題 。
we can ask how exactly he got to be in this particular location compared to his neighbors if it was just chance , or destiny , or what ?	我們可以問他如何在這個特定的鄰居 , 如果它只是機會 , 或慾望 , 或慾望 , 或否則呢 ?
now , after admonishing us for turning the temperature up too high , he would tell us that our question was completely stupid .	現在 , 在一個月後使用溫度太高了 , 他會告訴我們 , 我們的問題是完全愚蠢 。
these corals can be quite kind of mean , you see , and i have surfing scars to prove that .	這些珊瑚可能很像 , 你看到 , 我有驚訝 , 為了證明這一點 。
but this polyp would continue and tell us that his neighbors were quite clearly identical copies of him .	但這可能持續 , 告訴我們 , 他的鄰居很明顯地 , 他的鄰居很明顯地 。
that he was in all these other locations as well , but experiencing them as separate individuals .	他也在這些其他地方的失敗 , 但擴展了他們身為分分分分離 。
for a coral , branching into different copies is the most natural thing in the world .	對珊瑚而言 , 鳥類在世界中最自然的事情是最自然的事情 。
unlike us , a hyperintelligent coral would be uniquely prepared to understand quantum mechanics .	不像我們一樣 , 一個高度的珊瑚可能會很獨特地準備好了解量量量子機械 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics very accurately describes how our universe works .	量子機械機械非常精確地描述我們的宇宙如何運作 。
and it tells us our reality is continually branching into different possibilities , just like a coral .	它告訴我們我們我們的現實是完全怪異的可能性 , 就像珊瑚一樣 。
it's a weird thing for us humans to wrap our minds around , since we only ever get to experience one possibility .	這是個很奇怪的事 , 因為我們只能經歷我們的腦袋 , 因為我們只能經歷一個可能性 。
this quantum weirdness was first described by erwin schrödinger and his cat .	這種量子奇怪是第一次描述者 , 他的貓咪和他的貓貓 。
the cat likes this version better .	像這個版本更好 。
in this setup , schrödinger is in a box with a radioactive sample that , by the laws of quantum mechanics , branches into a state in which it is radiated and a state in which it is not .	在這個組合中 , chrddinger是盒子裡的一個盒子 , 由量子機械法律、鳥類、鳥類、鳥類的法律 , 不是 。
in the branch in which the sample radiates , it sets off a trigger that releases poison and schrödinger is dead .	在這個樣本中 , 它在沙漠中 , 它讓釋放出一個蛋白質和chrddinger是死的 。
but in the other branch of reality , he remains alive .	但在現實中 , 他仍然活著著 。
these realities are experienced separately by each individual .	這些真實性都被彼此分離 。
as far as either can tell , the other one doesn't exist .	隨著either可以告訴你 , 另一種不存在 。
this seems weird to us , because each of us only experiences an individual existence , and we don't get to see other branches .	這似乎很奇怪 , 因為每個人只經歷一個個人存在的存在 , 而我們卻無法看見其他鳥類 。
it's as if each of us , like schrödinger here , are a kind of coral branching into different possibilities .	如同我們每一個人一樣 , 像是chrddingerdinger , 有點像珊瑚鳥一樣 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics tells us this is how the world works at tiny scales .	量子機械機械告訴我們這是怎麼運作的 。
it can be summed up in a single sentence: everything that can happen , does .	它可以在單一句句句句子裡的一切都有可能發生 。
but this does not mean everything happens .	但這並不代表一切發生 。
the rest of physics is about describing what can happen and what can't .	物理學的其他部分是關於描述什麼可能發生什麼事 , 且無法做到 。
what physics tells us is that everything comes down to geometry and the interactions of elementary particles .	物理學告訴我們 , 一切都會下下下降到幾何原子粒子和互動的互動 。
and things can happen only if these interactions are perfectly balanced .	如果這些互動是不可能的平衡是平衡的 。
now i'll go ahead and describe how we know about these particles , what they are and how this balance works .	現在我會走進一步 , 描述我們如何了解這些粒子的運作方式 , 它們是如何運作的 。
in this machine , a beam of protons and antiprotons are accelerated to near the speed of light and brought together in a collision , producing a burst of pure energy .	在這個機器中 , 有一塊蛋白質和螞蟻的速度 , 將近光放到光線的速度 , 促進一個冷靜的能量 。
this energy is immediately converted into a spray of subatomic particles , with detectors and computers used to figure out their properties .	這能量是馬上轉化成一個小粒子的粒子 , 有偵測器和電腦一樣 , 用來找出他們的特性粒子 。
this enormous machine the large hadron collider at cern in geneva has a circumference of 17 miles and , when it's operating , draws five times as much power as the city of monterey .	這個龐大的機器中 , 大型的鐵路上有17英哩 , 當它正在操作時 , 畫出五倍 , 畫出五倍 。
we can't predict specifically what particles will be produced in any individual collision .	我們無法預測特定的粒子會在任何個體中產生的粒子 。
quantum mechanics tells us all possibilities are realized .	量子機械告訴我們所有可能的可能性 。
but physics does tell us what particles can be produced .	但物理學會告訴我們粒子有什麼粒子 。
these particles must have just as much mass and energy as is carried in by the proton and antiproton .	這些粒子一定只是質量和能量被釋放出來 。
any particles more massive than this energy limit aren't produced , and remain invisible to us .	任何粒子的粒子比這個能量更大 , 而永續發展不可思議 。
this is why this new particle accelerator is so exciting .	這就是為什麼這個新粒子的新粒子是非常興奮的 。
it's going to push this energy limit seven times beyond what's ever been done before , so we're going to get to see some new particles very soon .	要把這個能量推進這個能量限制的7倍 , 所以我們將會看到一些新粒子非常快 。
but before talking about what we might see , let me describe the particles we already know of .	但在談論我們所看到的 , 讓我描述我們已經知道的粒子 。
there's a whole zoo of subatomic particles .	有一整體粒子粒子粒子 。
most of us are familiar with electrons .	我們大多數人都熟悉電子 。
a lot of people in this room make a good living pushing them around .	在這個房間裡有很多人 , 讓他們圍繞著他們身邊 。
but the electron also has a neutral partner called the neutrino , with no electric charge and a very tiny mass .	但電子也有一個中央夥伴叫做 「 營養者 」 , 沒有電荷和一個非常微小的質量 。
in contrast , the upanddown quarks have very large masses , and combine in threes to make the protons and neutrons inside atoms .	在矛盾中 , 最大的大量量量 , 三種可以讓原子子子子子子和中間的組合 。
all of these matter particles come in left and righthanded varieties , and have antiparticle partners that carry opposite charges .	所有這些物質粒子都來自左邊和右邊的各種物質 , 而有抗生素合作夥伴 。
these familiar particles also have less familiar second and third generations , which have the same charges as the first but have much higher masses .	這些熟悉粒子粒子粒子也較少熟悉的第二代 , 它有同樣的椅子 。
these matter particles all interact with the various force particles .	這些物質粒子都與各種不同的粒子互動 。
the electromagnetic force interacts with electrically charged matter via particles called photons .	電磁力和電磁力互動互動 , 叫做 「 光子 」 的粒子 」 的粒子 。
there is also a very weak force called , rather unimaginatively , the weak force , that interacts only with lefthanded matter .	有個非常震撼的力量 , 而不是想像力的 , 而是弱勢 , 而是左撇子只有左撇子的作用 。
the strong force acts between quarks which carry a different kind of charge , called color charge , and come in three different varieties: red , green and blue .	夸克之間的強大力量 , 帶著不同的椅子 , 叫做顏色、綠色、綠色、綠色、藍色、藍色、藍色、藍色、藍色 。
you can blame murray gellmann for these names they're his fault .	你可以為這些名字 , 為這些名字 , 他們是他的錯的 。
finally , there's the force of gravity , which interacts with matter via its mass and spin .	最後 , 有重力的力量 , 它與視覺互動 。
the most important thing to understand here is that there's a different kind of charge associated with each of these forces .	最重要的是 , 了解到這裡有一個不同的椅子 , 與這些力量之間的關係 。
these four different forces interact with matter according to the corresponding charges that each particle has .	這四種不同的力量與重要性交互作用 , 每一粒粒粒粒子都有反應 。
a particle that hasn't been seen yet , but we're pretty sure exists , is the higgs particle , which gives masses to all these other particles .	一個粒子沒有看過 , 但我們很確定存在 , 就是暗示粒子粒子粒子粒子粒子 。
the main purpose of the large hadron collider is to see this higgs particle , and we're almost certain it will .	大型的原則是要看到這個希格斯粒子粒子 , 我們幾乎確定它會發生 。
but the greatest mystery is what else we might see .	但最棒的謎題是其他我們所看到的 。
and i'm going to show you one beautiful possibility towards the end of this talk .	我要給各位看一個美麗的可能性 , 向大家展示一個美麗的可能性 。
now , if we count up all these different particles using their various spins and charges , there are 226 .	如果我們把這些不同的粒子和椅子使用不同的粒子和椅子 , 有226 。
that's a lot of particles to keep track of .	這是很多粒子可以繼續追蹤 。
and it seems strange that nature would have so many elementary particles .	它似乎很奇怪的粒子會有很多元素 。
but if we plot them out according to their charges , some beautiful patterns emerge .	但如果我們把它們放到他們的椅子上 , 有些美麗的模式 , 有些美麗的模式 。
the most familiar charge is electric charge .	最熟悉的椅子是電荷的 。
electrons have an electric charge , a negative one , and quarks have electric charges in thirds .	電子有電荷有一個電荷 , 一個負面的負面電荷 , 第三個區域有電荷 。
so when two up quarks and a down quark are combined to make a proton , it has a total electric charge of plus one .	所以 , 當兩個上方公尺時 , 就會被組成一個蛋白質的電荷 , 它必須要有電力的電荷 。
these particles also have antiparticles , which have opposite charges .	這些粒子也有抗生素 , 這種粒子有相反的 。
now , it turns out the electric charge is actually a combination of two other charges: hypercharge and weak charge .	現在 , 結果發現電鏈是兩種其他椅子:hypercharge和弱點 。
if we spread out the hypercharge and weak charge and plot the charges of particles in this twodimensional charge space , the electric charge is where these particles sit along the vertical direction .	如果我們把hypercharge和弱弱弱弱勢 , 把粒子放在兩度空間中 , 電荷空間中 , 電動鏈的電路 , 電荷是這些粒子在垂直方向 。
the electromagnetic and weak forces interact with matter according to their hypercharge and weak charge , which make this pattern .	電磁共振性和弱弱勢互動 , 和震動互動 , 讓這個模式變得更加容易 。
this is called the unified electroweak model , and it was put together back in 1967 .	這是叫做 「 無知的模型 」 模型 , 把它放在1967年 。
the reason most of us are only familiar with electric charge and not both of these is because of the higgs particle .	我們大多數人都只熟悉電鏈的原因 , 而不是兩者都是因為卵子粒子粒子粒子 。
the higgs , over here on the left , has a large mass and breaks the symmetry of this electroweak pattern .	這裡的希格斯 , 在左邊 , 有一個很大的和突破模式的對稱 。
it makes the weak force very weak by giving the weak particles a large mass .	它讓弱勢力變得很弱 , 讓粒子更大 。
since this massive higgs sits along the horizontal direction in this diagram , the photons of electromagnetism remain massless and interact with electric charge along the vertical direction in this charge space .	從這個角度來看 , 在這個圖片中 , 由電磁共振造影 , 電磁共振的光子 , 和電荷的光子相互作用 。
so the electromagnetic and weak forces are described by this pattern of particle charges in twodimensional space .	所以電磁性和弱弱勢力被描述出來 , 在兩度空間中 , 兩度空間的形式 。
we can include the strong force by spreading out its two charge directions and plotting the charges of the force particles in quarks along these directions .	我們可以藉由傳播出來 , 藉由傳播出來的力量 , 將粒子轉換為粒子粒子的力量 。
the charges of all known particles can be plotted in a fourdimensional charge space , and projected down to two dimensions like this so we can see them .	所有人都知道粒子可以在四度空間中被淹沒在四度空間中 , 把它們放到兩維空間 , 像這樣我們可以看見它們 。
whenever particles interact , nature keeps things in a perfect balance along all four of these charge directions .	然而 , 當粒子互動時 , 自然自然持續在完美平衡中 , 四個這些椅子的方向 。
if a particle and an antiparticle collide , it creates a burst of energy and a total charge of zero in all four charge directions .	如果粒子和一個抗體的粒子 , 它會創造出一塊能量 , 它創造出一塊能量 , 每四個椅子的方向 。
at this point , anything can be created as long as it has the same energy and maintains a total charge of zero .	在這一刻 , 任何東西都能創造出一樣的能量和維持一座能量和維持在一起 。
for example , this weak force particle and its antiparticle can be created in a collision .	舉例來說 , 這個弱勢粒子可以在一個冷漠中創造出來的粒子 。
in further interactions , the charges must always balance .	在更進一步的互動中 , 椅子總是平衡 。
one of the weak particles could decay into an electron and an antineutrino , and these three still add to zero total charge .	粒子能偵測到一個電子 , 可以偵測到電子和一個螞蟻 , 而這三仍然加上了零件 。
nature always keeps a perfect balance .	大自然總是保持完美的平衡 。
so these patterns of charges are not just pretty .	所以這些椅子不僅是很棒的 。
they tell us what interactions are allowed to happen .	他們告訴我們互動的互動是如何發生的 。
and we can rotate this charge space in four dimensions to get a better look at the strong interaction , which has this nice hexagonal symmetry .	我們不能把這個椅子放在四度空間中 , 讓一個更好的互動 , 看看強壯的互動 , 這對稱是對稱性對稱 。
in a strong interaction , a strong force particle , such as this one , interacts with a colored quark , such as this green one , to give a quark with a different color charge this red one .	在一個強大的互動中 , 一個強大的粒子 , 比如這個綠色的平方形 , 比如這個綠色的 , 給一個平方形 , 給一個不同的顏色 。
and strong interactions are happening millions of times each second in every atom of our bodies , holding the atomic nuclei together .	每秒鐘都發生了數百萬次 , 每秒鐘都在核子核子核子核能 。
but these four charges corresponding to three forces are not the end of the story .	但這四個慈善家企業家的負責不是故事結束 。
we can also include two more charges corresponding to the gravitational force .	我們也能包含兩種慈善機構的責任 。
when we include these , each matter particle has two different spin charges , spinup and spindown .	當我們加入這些時 , 每一個粒子都有兩個不同的蜘蛛 , 脊髓和脊髓 。
so they all split , and give a nice pattern in sixdimensional charge space .	所以他們都在拼字空間中 , 給一個很好的模式 。
we can rotate this pattern in six dimensions , and see that it's quite pretty .	我們不能把這個模式放在六度空間中 , 看看它很棒 。
right now , this pattern matches our best current knowledge of how nature is built at the tiny scales of these elementary particles .	現在 , 這個模式將我們的最佳知識化的知識是如何在這些元素中建立在微小的粒子 。
this is what we know for certain .	這是我們所知的 。
some of these particles are at the very limit of what we've been able to reach with experiments .	有些粒子在我們身上的一些粒子是可以和實驗的 。
from this pattern , we already know the particle physics of these tiny scales . the way the universe works with these tiny scales is very beautiful .	從這個模式來看 , 我們已經知道粒子物理大小的尺寸 。
but now i'm going to discuss some new and old ideas about things we don't know yet .	但現在我要討論一些新的和舊想法有關我們不知道的東西 。
we want to expand this pattern using mathematics alone , and see if we can get our hands on the whole enchilada .	我們想要擴展這個模式 , 用數學來解釋這個模式 , 如果我們能把手放在整個enanda 。
we want to find all the particles and forces that make a complete picture of our universe .	我們想要找到所有粒子和力量 , 讓宇宙完全相似的圖像 。
and we want to use this picture to predict new particles that we'll see when experiments reach higher energies .	我們想要用這張照片來預測新粒子的新粒子 。
so there's an old idea in particle physics that this known pattern of charges , which is not very symmetric , could emerge from a more perfect pattern that gets broken similar to how the higgs particle breaks the electroweak pattern to give electromagnetism .	所以 , 粒子物理學中有一個古老的想法 , 這不是非常合理的形式 , 而是可以從更完美的形式 , 可以從一個更完美的模式 , 可以從更完美的形式 。
in order to do this , we need to introduce new forces with new charge directions .	為了做到這一點 , 我們需要引導新的領導力 。
when we introduce a new direction , we get to guess what charges the particles have along this direction , and then we can rotate it in with the others .	當我們介紹一個新的方向時 , 我們就能猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜猜錯
if we guess wisely , we can construct the standard charges in six charge dimensions as a broken symmetry of this more perfect pattern in seven charge dimensions .	如果我們猜想 , 我們就能建構標準標準的標準 , 六個椅子 , 作為一個破碎的對稱 。
this particular choice corresponds to a grand unified theory introduced by pati and salam in 1973 .	這種特殊的珊瑚反應是1973年的理論 , 由pati和alamamamames 。
when we look at this new unified pattern , we can see a couple of gaps where particles seem to be missing .	當我們觀察這個新的統計模式時 , 我們可以看到粒子的差距似乎失敗了 。
this is the way theories of unification work .	這是不可思議的工作的方式 。
a physicist looks for larger , more symmetric patterns that include the established pattern as a subset .	一個物理學家看起來很大 , 更多的對稱 , 包括 「 物質 」 的模式 」 的模式 。
the larger pattern allows us to predict the existence of particles that have never been seen .	最大的模式讓我們預測粒子存在於粒子的存在 。
this unification model predicts the existence of these two new force particles , which should act a lot like the weak force , only weaker .	這個單位模型預測出這兩個新粒子的存在 , 這應該是像弱勢一樣的弱勢 , 只有弱點 。
now we can rotate this set of charges in seven dimensions and consider an odd fact about the matter particles: the second and third generations of matter have exactly the same charges in sixdimensional charge space as the first generation .	現在 , 我們不能把這個椅子放在七度空間中 , 考慮粒子:第二、第三代、第三代的重要性:第二代、第三代的重要性 。
these particles are not uniquely identified by their six charges .	這些粒子不是獨特地辨識到六個椅子 。
they sit on top of one another in the standard charge space .	他們坐在標準的另一端 , 站在標準空間中 。
however , if we work in eightdimensional charge space , then we can assign unique new charges to each particle .	然而 , 如果我們在八度空間中工作 , 那麼我們可以忽略獨特的新規則 , 讓每個粒子獨特的新椅子 。
then we can spin these in eight dimensions , and see what the whole pattern looks like .	然後我們可以在八度內這些圖案中 , 看看整個模式是什麼樣子 。
here we can see the second and third generations of matter now related to the first generation by a symmetry called " triality . "	我們現在可以看到第二代 , 第三代的重要世代 , 叫做 「 三世代 」 。
this particular pattern of charges in eight dimensions is actually part of the most beautiful geometric structure in mathematics .	在八度中 , 這種特殊模式中 , 實際上是數學最美麗的結構 。
it's a pattern of the largest exceptional lie group , e8 .	這是一群最大的執行模式 , 8.
this lie group is a smooth , curved shape with 248 dimensions .	這個謊言團是一個抽菸、治癒了248度的形狀
each point in this pattern corresponds to a symmetry of this very complex and beautiful shape .	在這個模式中 , 在這個模式中 , 每一點非常複雜且美麗的形狀 。
one small part of this e8 shape can be used to describe the curved spacetime of einstein's general relativity , explaining gravity .	其中一小部分的形狀可以用來描述蛋白質的曲線 , 解釋了重力 , 解釋重力 。
together with quantum mechanics , the geometry of this shape could describe everything about how the universe works at the tiniest scales .	用量子機械 , 這種形狀可以描述宇宙如何運作 , 描述宇宙中最好的規模 。
the pattern of this shape living in eightdimensional charge space is exquisitely beautiful , and it summarizes thousands of possible interactions between these elementary particles , each of which is just a facet of this complicated shape .	這個形狀在八度空間中 , 生命的形狀很漂亮 , 它突然發現了數千種可能性粒子之間的互動 , 每一個元素之間的互動 。
as we spin it , we can see many of the other intricate patterns contained in this one .	隨著我們脊椎動物 , 我們可以看到許多其他特徵的模式 。
and with a particular rotation , we can look down through this pattern in eight dimensions along a symmetry axis and see all the particles at once .	有一種特殊的動作 , 我們可以在八度中觀察到這個模式中 , 看到所有粒子的粒子 , 看到所有粒子粒子 。
it's a very beautiful object , and as with any unification , we can see some holes where new particles are required by this pattern .	這是個非常漂亮的物體 , 我們能看到一些洞穴 , 新的粒子被這個模式所需要的洞見 。
there are 20 gaps where new particles should be , two of which have been filled by the patisalam particles .	有20個差距應該是新粒子 , 新粒子應該被填滿了粒子粒子 。
from their location in this pattern , we know that these new particles should be scalar fields like the higgs particle , but have color charge and interact with the strong force .	在這個模式中 , 我們知道這些新粒子應該是規模的 , 比如希格粒子粒子粒子粒子 , 但有顏色的力量 。
filling in these new particles completes this pattern , giving us the full e8 .	在這些新粒子裡 , 把我們整合起來 , 給我們整8 。
this e8 pattern has very deep mathematical roots .	這個時代有非常深的數學根源 。
it's considered by many to be the most beautiful structure in mathematics .	它被很多人認為是數學上最美麗的結構 。
it's a fantastic prospect that this object of great mathematical beauty could describe the truth of particle interactions at the smallest scales imaginable .	這是個很棒的數學證明 , 這個物體可以描述粒子互動的真相可以描述粒子之間最小的互動 。
and this idea that nature is described by mathematics is not at all new .	這個想法是 , 大自然是由數學描述出來的 。
in 1623 , galileo wrote this: " nature's grand book , which stands continually open to our gaze , is written in the language of mathematics .	在1623年 , 伽利略寫了: 「 大自然的書籍 , 站在數學上 , 不是數學的語言 。
its characters are triangles , circles and other geometrical figures , without which it is humanly impossible to understand a single word of it ; without these , one is wandering around in a dark labyrinth . "	它的角色是三角形 , 圓圈和其他幾何圖片 , 沒有它是不可能理解它的單一詞 ; 沒有這些 , 沒有人在黑暗實驗室裡 。 」
i believe this to be true , and i've tried to follow galileo's guidance in describing the mathematics of particle physics using only triangles , circles and other geometrical figures .	我相信這是真的 , 我試著遵循伽利略的數學指導 , 在描述數學中 , 只用三角形來描述數學數字 , 圓圈和其他幾何 。
of course , when other physicists and i actually work on this stuff , the mathematics can resemble a dark labyrinth .	當然 , 當我其他物理學家 , 我實際上在這個東西上工作時 , 數學可以重新組成一個黑暗實驗室 。
but it's reassuring that at the heart of this mathematics is pure , beautiful geometry .	但 , 在數學的心臟中 , 令人驚訝的是 , 美麗的幾何 , 美麗的遺跡 。
joined with quantum mechanics , this mathematics describes our universe as a growing e8 coral , with particles interacting at every location in all possible ways according to a beautiful pattern .	加入量子機械 , 這個數學描述我們宇宙的形式 , 以粒子描述我們宇宙的每一個可能性 , 粒子互相互動 。
and as more of the pattern comes into view using new machines like the large hadron collider , we may be able to see whether nature uses this e8 pattern or a different one .	隨著模式變得越來越多的新機器 , 比如大型的鐵路 , 我們可能可以看見大自然使用這個時代 , 或者不同的人 。
this process of discovery is a wonderful adventure to be involved in .	這種發現發現是一種很棒的冒險過程 。
if the lhc finds particles that fit this e8 pattern , that will be very , very cool .	如果lhc找到粒子的粒子 , 那就會非常酷 。
if the lhc finds new particles , but they don't fit this pattern well , that will be very interesting , but bad for this e8 theory .	如果lhc發現新粒子 , 但它們並不符合這個模式 , 那將會非常有趣 , 但對這個理論有趣 。
and , of course , bad for me personally .	當然 , 對我來說 , 對我來說 , 不好 。
now how bad would that be ?	那會是多糟糕的 ?
well , pretty bad .	嗯 , 很糟 。
but predicting how nature works is a very risky game .	但預測大自然運作是非常危險的遊戲 。
this theory and others like it are long shots .	這理論和其他像它很長的照片 。
one does a lot of hard work knowing that most of these ideas probably won't end up being true about nature .	第一 , 很多人都不知道這些想法大部分的想法可能是真的有關自然的 。
that's what doing theoretical physics is like: there are a lot of wipeouts .	這就是理論物理物理物理學是:有很多野生動物 。
in this regard , new physics theories are a lot like startup companies .	在這個區域中 , 新物理學的理論很像開始創公司 。
as with any large investment , it can be emotionally difficult to abandon a line of research when it isn't working out .	身為任何大投資者 , 它可能是情緒上很難吸引一個線索 。
but in science , if something isn't working , you have to toss it out and try something else .	但在科學中 , 如果某件事沒有工作 , 你得要去嘗試其他東西 。
now , the only way to maintain sanity and achieve happiness in the midst of this uncertainty is to keep balance and perspective in life .	現在 , 為了維持衛生和成幸福的唯一方法就是保持平衡和尊重生命的平衡 。
i've tried the best i can to live a balanced life .	我試過過最好的生命 。
i try to balance my life equally between physics , love and surfing my own three charge directions .	我試著平衡我的人生平等之間的平衡 , 愛和傷害我三位椅子的方向 。
this way , even if the physics i work on comes to nothing , i still know i've lived a good life .	這種方式 , 即使我在來沒有什麼事 , 我仍然知道我活得很好的生活 。
and i try to live in beautiful places .	我試著住在美麗的地方 。
for most of the past ten years i've lived on the island of maui , a very beautiful place .	過去十年來 , 我生活在最棒的地方 , 一個非常漂亮的地方 。
now it's one of the greatest mysteries in the universe to my parents how i managed to survive all that time without engaging in anything resembling fulltime employment .	這是宇宙中最偉大的謎之一 , 我父母如何生存存活下來 , 沒有參與任何共享的員工之一 。
i'm going to let you in on that secret .	我要給大家看這個秘密 。
this was a view from my home office on maui .	這是我從我家辦公室的觀點來看 。
and you may have noticed that these beautiful views are similar , but in slightly different places .	你可能注意到這些美麗的觀點很相似 , 但在不同的地方 。
that's because this used to be my home and office on maui .	這是因為這個習慣我家和辦公室的辦公室
i've chosen a very unusual life .	我選擇了一種非常不尋常的生活 。
but not worrying about rent allowed me to spend my time doing what i love .	但不是擔心隨機允許我的時間去做我愛的時刻 。
living a nomadic existence has been hard at times , but it's allowed me to live in beautiful places and keep a balance in my life that i've been happy with .	活著一個不起的存在 , 但它讓我能活在美麗的地方 , 讓我生活在美麗的地方 , 繼續平衡 。
it allows me to spend a lot of my time hanging out with hyperintelligent coral .	我允許我花很多時間討厭的珊瑚 。
but i also greatly enjoy the company of hyperintelligent people .	但我也很喜歡享受超級智慧公司的公司公司 。
so i'm very happy to have been invited here to ted .	所以我非常高興能在這裡邀請ted 。
chris anderson: i probably understood two percent of that , but i still absolutely loved it . so i'm going to sound dumb .	克里斯•安德森:我可能明白兩% , 但我仍然很愛它 。 所以我要聽起來聽起來 。
your theory of everything garrett lisi: i'm used to coral .	你的理論理論理論:我習慣了珊瑚 。
ca: that's right . the reason it's got a few people at least excited is because , if you're right , it brings gravity and quantum theory together .	克里斯:對的原因有幾個人至少很興奮 , 因為如果你是正確的 , 它會帶著重力和量子理論一起 。
so are you saying that we should think of the universe , at its heart that the smallest things that there are , are somehow an e8 object of possibility ?	所以 , 你說我們應該思考宇宙的最小東西 , 在心中最小的東西中 , 有某種程度的可能性 ?
i mean , is there a scale to it , at the smallest scale , or . . . ?	我的意思是 , 有一大規模規模規模規模 , 還是......
gl: well , right now the pattern i showed you that corresponds to what we know about elementary particle physics that already corresponds to a very beautiful shape .	蓋爾:嗯 , 現在我展示了我們對元素產生反應 , 對於粒子物理粒子物理學的反應 , 它已經對一個非常美麗的形狀 。
and that's the one that i said we knew for certain .	這是我所說的 , 我們知道肯定的 。
and that shape has remarkable similarities and the way it fits into this e8 pattern could be the rest of the picture .	這形狀有很可怕的相似 , 把它送到這個時代 , 可能是照片中的其他部分 。
and these patterns of points that i've shown for you actually represent symmetries of this highdimensional object that would be warping and moving and dancing over the space time that we experience .	而這些我向各位展示的圖案模式 , 實際上代表這個高度的對稱 , 會在我們經歷的最高度空間 , 移動到我們經歷的空間 。
and that would be what explains all these elementary particles that we see .	這將會是解釋所有這些元素的粒子粒子 。
ca: but a string theorist , as i understand it , explains electrons in terms of much smaller strings vibrating i know you don't like string theory vibrating inside it .	克里斯:但我了解它 , 解釋一下 , 解釋電子的電子 , 解釋一下我不知道你不喜歡弦弦弦樂 。
how should we think of an electron in relation to e8 ?	我們該怎麼想把電子裝置放在198年 ?
gl: no , it would be one of the symmetries of this e8 shape .	蓋爾:不 , 它會是這個時代的之一 。
so what's happening is , as the shape is moving over spacetime , it's twisting . and the direction it's twisting as it moves is what particle we see . so it would be ca: the size of the e8 shape , how does that relate to the electron ?	那麼 , 形狀是 , 當形狀在空間中移動時 , 它不會反映出我們所看到的粒子是粒子的粒子 , 所以它會是粒子的粒子 ?
i kind of feel like i need that for my picture .	我覺得我需要這張照片 。
is it bigger ? is it smaller ?	更大嗎 ? 很小嗎 ?
gl: well , as far as we know electrons are point particles , so this would be going down to the smallest possible scales .	蓋爾:嗯 , 我們知道電子是粒子粒子是粒子粒子 , 所以它會下到最小的規模 。
so the way these things are explained in quantum field theory is , all possibilities are expanding and developing at once .	所以這些東西都是量子物理領域的解釋是 , 所有的可能性都在擴展和發展 。
and this is why i use the analogy to coral .	這就是為什麼我用一個分析來做珊瑚 。
and in this way , the way that e8 comes in is it will be as a shape that's attached at each point in spacetime .	順便一提 , 8個彗星的形狀 , 它會成為一個形狀的形狀 。
and , as i said , the way the shape twists the directional along which way the shape is twisting as it moves over this curved surface is what the elementary particles are , themselves .	如我所說的 , 形狀的形狀 , 形狀的形狀 , 形狀的形狀 , 就是它在這個曲線上移動的最基本粒子是自己 。
so through quantum field theory , they manifest themselves as points and interact that way .	所以透過量子物理領域 , 他們把自己視為點和互動 。
i don't know if i'll be able to make this any clearer .	我不知道我是否能讓這個更清楚 。
ca: it doesn't really matter .	克里斯:它並不重要 。
it's evoking a kind of sense of wonder , and i certainly want to understand more of this .	它是用一種奇妙的感覺 , 我肯定想了解更多這個 。
but thank you so much for coming . that was absolutely fascinating .	但非常謝謝你們來了 , 這絕對是很棒的 。
the legendary chimpanzee researcher jane goodall talks about tacare and her other community projects , which help people in booming african towns live sidebyside with threatened animals .	法律研究人員傑尼研究員jneniall和其他社區專案計畫 , 幫助人們在非洲居住的邊緣 。
africa , animals , biodiversity , environment , global issues , pollution , primates , science	非洲、動物、生物多樣性、環境、污染、污染、污染、污染、科學 。
jane goodall helps humans and animals live together	珍妮幫人類和動物一起活在一起 。
good afternoon , good evening , whatever .	不久後 , 好了 , 不論是 。
we can go , jambo , guten abend , bonsoir , but we can also ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh .	我們可以走 , 珍 , 詹姆士 , 槍枝 , 但我們也也可以oh、oh、oh、oh、oh、oh、oh , 等等 。
that is the call that chimpanzees make before they go to sleep in the evening .	這就是黑猩猩的稱作黑猩猩在晚上睡覺 。
you hear it going from one side of the valley to the other , from one group of nests to the next .	你聽見它從谷歌到另一端 , 從其中一個群體到下一個群體之一 。
and i want to pick up with my talk this evening from where zeray left off yesterday .	我想拿著我的演講 , 昨天離開那晚上 。
he was talking about this amazing , threeyearold australopithecine child , selam .	他在談論這個很棒、三歲的童年 , 三歲的孩子 , 伊斯蘭 。
and we've also been hearing about the history , the family tree , of mankind through dna genetic profiling .	我們也聽到歷史、家人樹、家人樹、樹木、樹木、樹木、樹木、樹木、樹木 。
and it was a paleontologist , the late louis leakey , who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees .	這是一名古代學家 , 洛杉磯的洛杉磯 , 他真的在研究黑猩猩的路徑 。
and it was pretty extraordinary , way back then .	很不可思議 , 回到那之後 。
it's kind of commonplace now , but his argument was because he'd been searching for the fossilized remains of early humans in africa .	現在 , 這有點常見 , 但他的論點是因為他一直在尋找化石化化化石的早期 。
and you can tell an awful lot about what those beings looked like from the fossils , from the shape of the muscle attachments , something about the way they lived from the various artifacts found with them .	你可以告訴一個很糟糕的是那些被石油的形狀 , 從肌肉的形狀 , 從肌肉的形狀 , 關於它們生活的方式 , 關於它們生活的方式 。
but what about how they behaved ? that's what he wanted to know .	但他們到底怎麼樣呢 ? 這是他想要知道的 。
and of course , behavior doesn't fossilize .	當然 , 行為並不是化化石 。
he argued and it's now a fairly common theory that if we found behavior patterns similar or the same in our closest living relatives , the great apes , and humans today , then maybe those behaviors were present in the apelike , humanlike ancestor some seven million years ago .	他爭議了 , 正常常常常常常見的理論理論 , 如果我們發現行為模式相似或同 , 現今 , 偉大的寵物 , 也許這些行為都是在同儕、人類的行為 , 那麼 , 也許這些行為已經存在了七百萬年前的行為 。
and therefore , perhaps we had brought those characteristics with us from that ancient , ancient past .	因此 , 也許我們帶給這些特徵、古老、古老、古老的過去 。
well , if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution , you very often find people speculating about how early humans may have behaved , based on the behavior of chimpanzees .	嗯 , 如果你看看今天的書籍 , 你通常會發現人類演化的行為 , 你通常會發現人們在黑猩猩的行為行為 , 根據黑猩的行為行為行為行為行為行為行為的行為 。
they are more like us than any other living creature , and we've heard about that during this ted conference .	他們比其他生物其他生物生物更像我們在ted會議中聽到的 , 我們聽過這個ted會議 。
so it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzees are so like us , in certain aspects of their behavior .	所以 , 對我來說 , 黑猩猩來說 , 黑猩來說 , 黑猩的行為 , 就像我們一樣 , 在某些方面 ,
every chimpanzee has his or her own personality .	每隻黑猩猩有自己的個人性 。
of course , i gave them names . they can live to be 60 years or more , although we think most of them probably don't make it to 60 in the wild .	當然 , 我給他們名字
mr . wurzel . the female has her first baby when she's 11 or 12 .	mr.wurzel , 她的第一個嬰兒在11或12歲時 。
thereafter , she has one baby only every five or six years , a long period of childhood dependency when the child is nursing , sleeping with the mother at night , and riding on her back .	在五到六年 , 她有一個嬰兒只有每五到六歲的童年 , 一個長期的期期間 , 睡眠和母親一起睡 。
and we believe that this long period of childhood is important for chimpanzees , just as it is for us , in relation to learning .	我們相信這長期期期的童年很重要 , 就如黑猩猩的重要性 , 就像我們一樣 。
as the brain becomes ever more complex during evolution in different forms of animals , so we find that learning plays an ever more important role in an individual's life history .	當大腦變得更複雜 , 在演化過程中 , 我們發現學習玩耍更重要的角色 , 所以我們發現學習扮演了更重要的角色 。
and young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do .	年輕黑猩猩花了很多時間看他們的老闆 。
we know now that they're capable of imitating behaviors that they see .	我們現在知道他們有能力的行為 。
and we believe that it's in this way that the different toolusing behaviors that have now been seen in all the different chimpanzee populations studied in africa how these are passed from one generation to the next , through observation , imitation and practice , so that we can describe these toolusing behaviors as primitive culture .	我們相信這是不同的工具 , 在非洲各地不同的黑猩的行為 , 現在我們已經在非洲各地不同的黑猩研究 , 透過觀察到下一代 , 透過觀察和練習 , 通過觀察這些工具 , 我們可以描述這些工具 , 來描述這些工具 。
chimpanzees don't have a spoken language . we've talked about that .	黑猩猩沒有一隻蜘蛛語言 , 我們談過這一點 。
they do have a very rich repertoire of postures and gestures , many of which are similar , or even identical , to ours and formed in the same context . greeting chimpanzees embracing .	他們有一個非常豐富的重覆性 , 許多類似 , 甚至是相似的 , 甚至是相同的 , 甚至是同的 , 和我們的同情心 。
they also kiss , hold hands , pat one another on the back .	他們也技巧、手、手、手、握手 ,
and they swagger and they throw rocks .	而他們會把搖滾滾滾滾滾動 。
in chimpanzee society , we find many , many examples of compassion , precursors to love and true altruism .	在黑猩的社會中 , 我們發現很多很多同情心、受傷者、受傷者 , 來愛和真正的演變 。
unfortunately , they , like us , have a dark side to their nature .	不幸的是 , 他們就像我們一樣 , 有一個黑暗的面向 。
they're capable of extreme brutality , even a kind of primitive war .	他們有能力極度的戰爭 , 甚至有點驚人的戰爭 。
and these really aggressive behaviors , for the most part , are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group .	這些真的很有意見的行為 , 最重要的部分是對鄰居的社會團體 。
they are very territorially aggressive .	它們非常令人驚訝 。
chimpanzees , i believe , more than any other living creature , have helped us to understand that , after all , there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom .	黑猩猩 , 我相信 , 比任何其他生物生物 , 幫助我們了解 , 畢竟 , 沒有鯊魚和其他動物之間的限制 。
it's a very blurry line , and it's getting more blurry all the time as we make even more observations .	這是個非常奇怪的線索 , 每當我們做更多的盲目 , 就像我們做更多的觀察 。
the study that i began in 1960 is still continuing to this day .	我在1960年開始一直持續持續持續持續持續 。
and these chimpanzees , living their complex social lives in the wild , have helped more than anything else to make us realize we are part of , and not separated from , the amazing animals with whom we share the planet .	而這些黑猩猩 , 牠們的複雜社會生活在野生動物身上 , 幫助我們了解到我們是一部分的 , 而不是從我們共享的動物 。
so it's pretty sad to find that chimpanzees , like so many other creatures around the world , are losing their habitats .	所以 , 很難找到黑猩猩 , 就像世界上許多其他生物一樣 , 都失去他們的棲息地 。
this is just one photograph from the air , and it shows you the forested highlands of gombe .	這只是從空氣中拍攝的照片 , 它給你看最高的目標之一 。
and it was when i flew over the whole area , about 16 years ago , and realized that outside the park , this forest , which in 1960 had stretched almost unbroken along the eastern shore of lake tanganyika , which is where the tiny , 30squaremile gombe national park lies , that a question came to my mind .	當我飛過整個區域時 , 大約16年前 , 我發現在公園裡 , 發現在公園裡 , 這種森林 , 在1960年代 , 幾乎沒有破壞了 , 那裡的海岸岸岸 , 三十公里 , 那是一個小型的國家公園 。
" how can we even try to save these famous chimpanzees , when the people living around the national park are struggling to survive ? "	「 我們怎麼能拯救這些有名黑猩猩 」 時 , 當我們住在國家公園裡的人會掙扎 ? "
more people are living there than the land could possibly support .	更多人居住在島嶼可以支持 。
the numbers increased by refugees pouring in from burundi and over the lake from congo .	數量的難民數量增加 , 從內部的湖泊和湖泊中湖泊的湖泊 。
and very poor people they couldn't afford to buy food from elsewhere .	非常窮人 , 他們無法負擔買食物 , 從其他地方買不到食物 。
this led to a program , which we call tacare .	這導致了一個計畫 , 我們稱之為 「 任務 」 。
it's a very holistic way of improving the lives of the people living in the villages around the park .	這是一個非常榮幸的方式來改善公園的生活方式 。
it started small with 12 villages . it's now in 24 .	它從24個村莊開始小村莊 , 現在在24歲 。
there isn't time to go into it , but it's including things like tree nurseries , methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded , almost desertlike land up in these mountains .	沒有時間進入它 , 但它的影響 , 就像樹木護士一樣 , 包括農業、農業 , 幾乎是農業的 , 幾乎是農業的 。
ways of controlling , preventing soil erosion .	控制語言的方式 , 防止土壤 。
ways of reclaiming overused farmland , so that within two years they can again be productive .	重新思考農場的農場 , 兩年內 , 兩年內 , 可以再次生產力 。
working to help the villagers obtain fresh water from wells .	為了協助村民觀察者觀察者的水源 。
perhaps build some schoolrooms .	也許建造一些學校室 。
most important of all , i believe , is working with small groups of women , providing them with opportunities for microcredit loans .	最重要的是 , 我相信 , 就是和女性合作的小群體 , 提供他們機會 , 提供顯微的貸款 。
and we've got , as is the case around the world , about 95 percent of all loans returned .	我們得知 , 身為世界各地的案例 , 大約有95%的貸款 。
empowering women , working with education , providing scholarships for girls so they can finish secondary school , in the clear understanding that , all around the world , as women's education improves , family size drops .	賦予女性、教育、教育、教育、提供教育、教育、她們可以完成第二個學校 , 明顯地了解 , 所有世界各地的學校 , 都是女性的教育 。
we provide information about family planning and about hiv/aids .	我們提供關於家庭計劃和愛滋病的資訊 。
and as a result of this program , something's happening for conservation .	作為這個計畫的結果 , 有些東西正在發生 。
what's happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages , instead of looking on us as a bunch of white people coming to study a whole bunch of monkeys and by the way , many of the staff are now tanzanian but when we began the tacare program , it was a tanzanian team going into the villages .	保育計畫是 , 農夫住在這24個村莊 , 而不是在尋找我們身為一群白人人人來研究一堆白人人人來研究一堆猴子 , 我們現在開始坦尚尼亞的團隊 , 但當我們開始塔利亞的塔利亞團隊 。
it was a tanzanian team talking to the villagers , asking what they were interested in .	這是一個坦尚尼亞團隊和村莊談談談他們對什麼興趣 。
were they interested in conservation ? absolutely not .	他們很感興趣嗎 ? 絕對不是 。
they were interested in health ; they were interested in education .	他們對健康有興趣 , 他們對教育有興趣 。
and as time went on , and as their situation began to improve , they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation .	隨著時間到來 , 當他們的情況開始改善 , 他們開始了解保育 , 他們開始了解更多關於保育需求的需求 。
they began to understand that as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees , so you've got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides .	他們開始了解 , 身為山頂層的頂層 , 所以你有了這可怕的土壤和mulidelideslideslideslideslides 。
today , we are developing what we call the greater gombe ecosystem .	今天 , 我們正在開發出我們稱之為 「 更好的目標 」 。
this is an area way outside the national park , stretching out into all these very degraded lands .	這是國家公園外公園 , 站在全國公園裡 , 站在這些島嶼上 。
and as these villages have a better standard of life , they are actually agreeing to put between 10 percent and 20 percent of their land in the highlands aside , so that once again , as the trees grow back , the chimpanzees will have leafy corridors through which they can travel to interact as they must for genetic viability with other remnant groups outside the national park .	身為這些村莊有更好的標準 , 他們實際上同意將近10%到20%到高島上 , 所以 , 一旦樹木長回來 , 黑猩會再次 , 黑猩猩猩會透過彼此交互作用來互動 。
so tacare is a success .	所以tacare是一個成功的成功 。
we're replicating it in other parts of africa , around other wilderness areas which are faced with extreme population pressure .	我們在非洲各地的其他部分 , 其他見證都在面對極端人口壓力中 。
the problems in africa , however , as we've been discussing for the whole of these first couple of days of ted , are major problems .	然而 , 在非洲 , 我們一直在討論這些第一幾天的ted , 是主要問題 。
there is a great deal of poverty .	貧窮的貧窮 。
and when you get large numbers of people living in land that is not that fertile , particularly when you cut down trees , and you leave the soil open to the wind for erosion , as desperate populations cut down more and more trees , so that they can try and grow food for themselves and their families , what's going to happen ? something's got to give .	當你在土地上得到大量的人們 , 尤其是在樹木時 , 特別是當你切割樹的時候 , 你就離開了土壤 , 使人口砍伐更多樹木 , 所以他們可以嘗試和更多樹木 , 所以他們可以嘗試和食物 , 他們的家人 , 該怎麼做 ?
and the other problems in not only africa , but the rest of the developing world and , indeed , everywhere what are we doing to our planet ?	而不是非洲其他問題 , 而是開發中國家的其他問題 , 而是在於開發中國家 , 我們該怎麼做 ?
you know , the famous scientist , e . o . wilson said that if every person on this planet attains the standard of living of the average european or american , we need three new planets .	你知道嗎 , 歐盟科學家 , 歐巴森說 , 如果每個人在這個星球的標準 , 我們需要三個新的星球的標準 。
today , they are saying four . but we don't have them . we've got one .	今天 , 他們說四歲 , 但我們沒有他們 。
and what's happened ? i mean , the question here is , here we are , arguably the most intelligent being that's ever walked planet earth , with this extraordinary brain , capable of the kind of technology that is so well illustrated by these ted conferences , and yet we're destroying the only home we have .	發生了什麼事呢 ? 我的意思是 , 問題是 , 我們是 , 阿富汗最聰明的大腦 , 和這個極端的大腦 , 可以用這種技術來吸引地球 , 但是我們已經摧毀了我們唯一的機會 。
the indigenous people around the world , before they made a major decision , used to sit around and ask themselves , " how does this decision affect our people seven generations ahead ? "	世界各地的人 , 在他們做了一個主要決策之前 , 要求自己坐下來 , 問自己: 「 這決定如何影響我們的七代人 ? 」
today , major decisions and i'm not particularly talking about africa here , but the developed world major decisions involving millions of dollars , and millions of people , are often based on , " how will this affect the next shareholders' meeting ? "	今天 , 主要決策 , 我不是特別談論非洲 , 而是開發了數百萬美元 , 而是開發了世界上數百萬人 , 而數百萬人 , 通常是基於: 「 接下來會如何影響下下下一步 ? 」
and these decisions affect africa .	這些決定影響非洲 。
as i began traveling around africa talking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests , i realized more and more how so many of africa's problems could be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation .	當我開始到非洲各地的談話時 , 我意識到更多的非洲和他們的優勢 , 我意識到更多的非洲問題 , 更多的非洲問題可能是多麼大 。
so i began traveling outside africa , talking in europe , talking in the united states , going to asia .	所以我開始到非洲 , 和歐洲談話 , 談到亞洲 , 談到亞洲 。
and everywhere there were these terrible problems .	任何地方都有這些可怕的問題 。
and you know the kind i'm talking about . i'm talking about pollution .	你知道我正在談論污染污染 。 我正在談論污染污染污染 。
the air that we breathe that often poisons us .	我們呼吸 , 通常我們呼吸的空氣 。
the earth is poisoning our foods .	地球正在污染我們的食物 。
the water water is perhaps one of the most crucial issues that we're going to face in this century and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural , industrial and household chemicals that still are being sprayed around the world , seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience .	水是或許我們要面對這個世紀最關鍵的問題之一就是農業、農業、農業、農業、農業、農業、農業、農業、農業、農業、農業、農業、農業、農業、農業、農業、農業、和家 。
the mangroves are being cut down ; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse .	曼格魯斯已經被砍掉 ; 像海嘯變得更糟 。
we've talked about the soil erosion .	我們談到土壤的土壤 。
we have the reckless burning of fossil fuels along with other greenhouse gasses , so called , leading to climate change .	我們有難以置信石燃料燃料燃料燃料燃料 , 稱為氣候變遷 。
finally , all around the world , people have begun to believe that there is something going on very wrong with our climate .	最後 , 世界各地 , 人們必須相信 , 對於氣候的影響 。
all around the world climates are mixed up .	世界各地的氣候被混合在一起 。
and it's the poor people who are affected worse .	這是那些影響最糟糕的人 。
it's africa that already is affected .	非洲已經影響了 。
in many parts of subsaharan africa , the droughts are so much worse .	在許多撒哈拉非洲 , 乾旱帶來非常糟糕 。
and when the rain does come , it so often leads to flooding and added distress , and the cycle of poverty and hunger and disease .	當雨林發生時 , 通常會導致洪水 , 會導致貧窮和飢餓的循環 , 以及疾病的循環 。
and the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support , who are too poor to buy food , who can't move away because the whole land is degraded .	而住在一個島嶼裡的人數數數不支持 , 誰太窮了 , 因為整個土地被剝奪 , 因為整個土地被摧毀 。
and so you get desertification creeping , creeping , creeping as the last of the trees are cut down .	所以 , 你得到沙漠的危機 , 回應 , 評估樹木的最後一棵樹被砍掉 。
and this kind of thing is not just in africa . it's all over the world .	這類事情不只是在非洲各地 。
so it wasn't surprising to me that as i was traveling around the world i met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope .	所以這不是讓我驚訝的是 , 當我在世界各地旅行時 , 我遇到許多年輕人 , 似乎失去希望 。
we seem to have lost wisdom , the wisdom of the indigenous people .	我們似乎失去智慧、智慧、智慧、智慧的智慧 。
i asked a question . " why ? "	我問一個問題: 「 為什麼 ? 」
well , do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain , the kind of brain that the ted technologies exemplify , and the human heart ? talking about it in the nonscientific term , in terms of love and compassion . is there some disconnect ?	嗯 , 你認為有某種分析的大腦之間有某種距離 , ted科技的大腦 , 像是ted技術擴展 , 而人類心臟呢 ? 談到它在愛和同情心中 , 談到愛和同情心 。
and these young people , when i talk to them , basically they were either depressed or apathetic , or bitter and angry . and they said more or less the same thing , " we feel this way because we feel you've compromised our future and there's nothing we can do about it . "	而這些年輕人 , 當我跟他們談話時 , 他們基本上是憂鬱或憤怒、憤怒、憤怒、憤怒、憤怒、憤怒、憤怒、憤怒、憤怒、憤怒 。 」
we have compromised their future .	我們有複雜的未來 。
i've got three little grandchildren , and every time i look at them and i think how we've harmed this beautiful planet since i was their age , i feel this desperation .	我有三個小孫子 , 每次我看著他們 , 我想我們如何害怕這些美麗的星球 , 因為我是他們的年齡 , 我感覺到這個美麗的星球 。
and that led to this program we call roots and shoots , which began right here in tanzania and has now spread to 97 countries around the world .	這個計畫讓我們稱之為根廷和拍攝的計畫 , 這開始在坦尚尼亞 , 現在全世界傳播到97個國家 。
it's symbolic . roots make a firm foundation .	它是物理的 。 根根根源製造一個奇怪的基礎 。
shoots seem tiny ; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall .	拍攝似乎很小 ; 到太陽能牆壁 , 到太陽能牆壁 。
see the brick wall as all these problems we've inflicted on the planet , environmental and social . it's a message of hope .	看看我們地球上所有問題都在衝突上 , 環境和社交 。 這是一種希望的訊息 。
hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things .	全世界有數百名年輕人 , 可以從世界各地創造出更好的世界 。
the most important message of roots and shoots: every single one of us makes a difference , every single day .	最重要的訊息和根根根源:每一天 , 我們都會做出差異 , 每天都會做出差別 。
we have a choice . every one of us in this room , we have a choice as to what kind of difference we want to make .	我們有一個選擇 。 每個人都有選擇 。 我們有選擇的差異 。
the very poor have no choice . it's up to us to change things so that the poor have choice as well .	窮人沒有選擇 。 它會讓我們改變窮人的選擇 。 所以 , 窮人有選擇 。
the roots and shoots groups all choose three projects .	根根部和槍擊團團團體都選了三項計畫 。
it depends on how old they are , and which country , whether they're in a city or rural , as to what kinds of projects .	它依賴他們多久 , 而國家 , 無論他們在城市或鄉村 , 無論他們在一個城市或鄉村 ,
but basically , we have programs now from preschool right through university , with more and more adults starting their own roots and shoots groups .	但基本上 , 我們現在從懷疑大學的程式設計 , 從準備開始 , 更多成年人開始 , 拍攝自己的根位置和拍攝的團隊 。
and every group chooses , between them , three different kinds of project to make this a better world , recognizing that all these different problems are interconnected and impinge on each other .	每組組組選項之間 , 三種不同的計畫 , 讓這個更好的世界變得更好 , 了解這些不同的問題都在互相連結 , 並在彼此之間 。
so one of their projects will be to help their own human community .	所以 , 他們的一項計畫會協助自己自己自己的社區 。
and then , if they're able , they may raise money to help communities in other parts of the world .	然後 , 如果他們能做到 , 他們可能會提升到世界上其他部分的社區 。
one of their projects will be to help animals not just wildlife , domestic animals as well .	他們的項目之一會幫助動物不僅僅是野生動物 。
and one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share .	他們的項目之一會幫助我們分享的環境 。
and woven throughout all of this is a message of learning to live in peace and harmony within ourselves , in our families , in our communities , between nations , between cultures , between religions and between us and the natural world .	所有這一切都是學習和平靜的訊息 , 在我們自己的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭之間之間之間 , 與我們之間之間 , 與自然界之間之間之間 。
we need the natural world . we cannot go on destroying it at the rate we are .	我們需要自然的世界 , 我們不能去摧毀它 。
we not do have more than this one planet .	我們沒有比這個星球還要多 。
just picking one or two of the projects right here in africa that the roots and shoots groups are doing , one or two projects only in tanzania , in uganda , kenya , south africa , congobrazzaville , sierra leone , cameroon and other groups . and as i say , it's in 97 countries around the world .	只挑選一個計畫 , 在非洲的根部和槍擊團團團體正在做 , 一或兩個計畫只有在坦尚尼亞、南非、南非、南非、南非、獅子、獅子、獅子、獅子、獅子、獅子、獅子、獅子、獅子、獅子、獅子、獅子、獅子、獅子、獅子、獅子、南非 , 和其他國家 。
of course , they're planting trees . they're growing organic vegetables .	當然 , 他們正在培養樹 , 他們正在成長的有機蔬菜 。
they're working in the refugee camps , with chickens and selling the eggs for a little amount of money , or just using them to feed their families , and feeling a sense of pride and empowerment , because they're no longer helpless and depending on others with their vegetables and their chickens .	他們在難民營營中工作 , 用雞蛋和賣雞蛋 , 賣雞蛋的蛋 , 或用它們來餵食他們的家庭 , 感受到他們家人 , 因為他們不再有幫助和自己 。
it's being used in uganda to give some psychological help to exchild soldiers .	它被用在烏干達給一些心理幫助的士兵 。
doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves .	做這個計畫 , 讓他們自己脫離自己 。
once again , they're useful members of society .	再一次 , 他們很有用的成員 。
we have this program in prisons as well .	我們也有這個計畫 , 在監獄中有這個計畫 。
so , there's no time for more roots and shoots now .	所以現在 , 沒有時間更多根源和射射射射線 。
but oh , they're also working on hiv/aids .	但喔 , 他們也在愛滋病/aididaid 。
that's a very important component of roots and shoots , with older kids talking to younger ones .	這是一個非常重要的元素和拍攝的重要元件 , 有較老的孩子跟年輕人談話 。
and unwanted pregnancies and things like that , which young people listen to better from other youth , rather than adults .	不可思議的懷孕 , 那些年輕人傾聽的人 , 而非成人傾聽 , 而不是成人 。
hope . that's the question i get asked as i'm going around the world: " jane , you've seen so many terrible things , you've seen your chimpanzees decrease in number from about one million , at the turn of the century , to no more than 150 , 000 now , and the same with so many other animals .	希望 , 這是我在世界各地的一個問題: 「 珍 , 你看過很多可怕的事情 , 你看過你的黑猩猩數目 , 你看過你的黑猩數目 , 轉到一百萬個動物 。
forests disappearing , deserts where once there was forest .	森林消失、沙漠 , 一旦有森林 。
do you really have hope ? " well , yes .	你真的有希望嗎 ? 」 「 好 , 是的 。
you can't come to a conference like ted and not have hope , can you ?	你不能去像tedted , 不是希望 , 你能不能嗎 ?
and of course , there's hope . one is this amazing human brain .	當然 , 有希望 。 其中有一個很棒的人類大腦 。
and i mean , think of the technologies .	我的意思是 , 想想看科技 。
and i've just been so thrilled , finally , to come to people talking about compost latrines .	最後 , 我很興奮 , 最後 , 大家來談談談談談談關於哲學的元素 。
it's one of my hobbyhorses .	這是我熱愛的喜劇之一 。
we just flush all this water down the lavatory , it's terrible .	我們只是把這些水下的水下 , 它很糟糕 。
and then talking about renewable energy desperately important .	然後再談談談回收能源極端重要 。
do we care about the planet for our children ?	我們照顧我們的孩子嗎 ?
how many of us have children or grandchildren , nieces , nephews ?	有多少人有孩子或孫子 , 很好玩 ?
do we care about their future ?	我們在乎他們的未來 ?
and if we care about their future , we , as the elite around the world , we can do something about it . we can make choices as to how we live each day .	如果我們關心他們的未來 , 我們就在乎自己的未來 , 我們就能做些什麼事 。 我們可以做出選擇 。 我們每天每天都能做出選擇 。
what we buy . what we wear .	我們買了什麼 。 我們買了什麼 。
and choose to make these choices with the question , how will this affect the environment around me ?	選擇要做出這些選擇 , 如何影響我周圍的環境 ?
how will it affect the life of my child when he or she grows up ?	當他長大的時候 , 會如何影響我的孩子 ?
or my grandchild , or whatever it is .	或者我的孫子 , 或是我祖母 , 不論它是什麼 。
so the human brain , coupled with the human heart , and we join hands around the world .	所以人類的大腦 , 與人類的心臟 , 我們加入世界各地 。
and that's what ted is helping so well with , and google who help us , and esri are helping us with mapping in gombe national park .	這就是ted所幫助的就是幫助我們 , google誰幫助我們 , 並且googlerisris在美國公園裡 。
all of these technologies we can use .	所有這些技術都可以使用 。
now let's link them , and it's beginning to happen , isn't it ?	現在 , 讓我們把它們連結起來 , 開始發生 , 不是嗎 ?
you've heard about it this afternoon . it's beginning to happen .	你已經聽過這之後 , 開始發生了 。
this change , this change . to see change that we must have if we care about the future .	這改變了 , 這改變了我們必須是否要關心未來 。
and the next reason for hope nature is amazingly resilient .	希望大自然的下一個理由是很棒的 。
you can take an area that's absolutely destroyed , with time and perhaps some help it can regenerate .	你可以採取一個區域 , 絕對是絕對的 , 也許有些幫助可以恢復復 。
and an example is the tacare program .	舉個例子是tacare計畫 。
i told you , where a seemingly dead tree stump if you stop hacking them for firewood , which you don't need to because you have wood lots , then in five years you can have a 30foot tree .	我告訴各位 , 一個似乎死樹木的樹木 , 如果你停止駭他們 , 你不需要因為你有木木木木 , 五年內 , 五年 , 你可以有30英尺的樹木 。
and animals , almost on the brink of extinction , can be given a second chance . that's my next book .	動物幾乎在滅絕的皮膚上 , 可能是第二個機會 。 那是我的下一本書 。 這是我的下一本書 。
it's inspiring . and it brings me to my last category of hope , and we've heard about this so much in the last two days: this indomitable human spirit . this determination of people , the resilience of the human spirit , so that people who you would think would be battered by poverty , or disease , or whatever , can pull themselves up out of it , sometimes with a helping hand , and take their part in society , and take their part in changing the world .	它鼓舞了我最後兩天 , 它帶我去了希望 , 在過去兩天中 , 我們聽過這個人的精神 , 這種決定人類精神的精神 。 這決定了人類精神精神的責任 , 所以你會認為會被貧窮的人 , 所以你會覺得蝙蝠被貧窮 , 有時你會覺得蝙蝠 。
and just to think of one or two people out of africa who are just really inspiring .	只想想想一或兩位非洲人的非洲人 。
we could make a very long list , but obviously nelson mandela , emerging from 17 years of hard physical labor , 23 years of imprisonment , with this amazing ability to forgive , so that he could lead his nation out the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath .	我們可以做出非常長的獅子 , 但很顯然地 , 從17年來 , 讓nella、23年、23年的監獄、23年的監獄 , 所以他能引領他的國家 , 所以他能帶出他的國家 , 沒有血球 。
ken sarowiwa , in nigeria , who took on the giant oil companies , and although people around the world tried their best , was executed .	kensarowiwa , 在奈及利亞 , 他在世界各地的巨大公司 , 雖然在世界各地試過他們的最好 , 是被迫切的 。
people like this are so inspirational .	像這樣的人如此靈感 。
people like this are the role models we need for young africans .	像這樣的人一樣 , 我們需要年輕非洲人 。
and we need some environmental role models as well , and i've been hearing some of them today .	我們需要一些環境角色 , 今天我一直聽到一些環境角色 。
so i'm really grateful for this opportunity to share this message again , with everyone at ted .	所以我非常感謝這個機會分享這個訊息 , 與ted分享這個訊息 , 與大家分享這個訊息 。
and i hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things , especially the roots and shoots program .	我希望有些人能一起討論這些事情 , 尤其是根根根根源和拍攝的計畫 。
and just a last word on that the young woman who's running this entire conference center , i met her today .	最後一個詞 , 在那位年輕女性跑步這整個職業中心 , 我今天遇見她 。
she came up so excited , with her certificate . she was [in] roots and shoots .	她很興奮 , 和她的客戶 。 她很興奮 。 她是藍色和槍槍槍槍擊 。
she was in the leadership in dar es salaam .	她在達爾薩拉的領導人 。
she said it's helped her to do what she's doing .	她說這是幫助她做的事 。
and it was very , very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people , when they are empowered , given the opportunity to take action , to make the world a better place , truly are our hope for tomorrow .	對我來說 , 對我來說 , 非常興奮 , 對她來說 , 當他們被賦予行動時 , 讓世界變得更好 , 讓世界變得更好 , 讓世界變得更好 。
artist dianna cohen shares some tough truths about plastic pollution in the ocean and in our lives and some thoughts on how to free ourselves from the plastic gyre .	藝術家們分享一些關於塑膠污染污染污染污染的事實 , 在我們的人生中 , 有些想法是如何自由的 。
consumerism , global issues , green , mission blue , oceans , plastic	消費者主義、全球議題、綠色、海洋、海洋、塑膠、塑膠、塑膠、塑膠 。
dianna cohen: tough truths about plastic pollution	狄安娜•安娜:很難真理的真相 。
i'm a visual artist , and i'm also one of the cofounders of the plastic pollution coalition .	我是一個視覺藝術家 , 我也是其中一個塑膠污染的核心之一 。
i've been working with plastic bags , which i cut up and sew back together as my primary material for my artwork for the last 20 years .	我和塑膠袋一起工作 , 我把塑膠袋放在過去二十年裡 , 把我當作藝術作品當作我為藝術作品的作品 。
i turn them into two and threedimensional pieces and sculptures and installations .	我把它們轉為兩、三維空間和雕塑和雕塑和雕像 。
upon working with the plastic , after about the first eight years , some of my work started to fissure and break down into smaller little bits of plastic .	和塑膠合作之後 , 大約八年後 , 有些我的工作開始融化 , 一些塑膠 。
and i thought , " great .	我心想: 「 很好 。 」
it's ephemeral just like us . "	它就像我們一樣 。 」
upon educating myself a little further about plastics , i actually realized this was a bad thing .	在教育中 , 我意識到 , 關於塑膠 , 我真的意識到這是一件壞事 。
it's a bad thing that plastic breaks down into smaller little bits , because it's always still plastic .	它是個壞事 , 塑膠分成較小的一點 , 因為它總是仍然是塑膠 。
and what we're finding is that a lot of it is in the marine environment .	我們發現的是 , 在海洋環境環境中有很多 。
i then , in the last few years , learned about the pacific garbage patch and the gyre .	然後 , 在過去幾年裡 , 學到關於太平洋的禮物和greyrey 。
and my initial reaction and i think this is a lot of people's first reaction to learning about it is , " oh my god !	而我認為這是許多人的反應 , 我認為這是許多人第一個反應 , 就是 「 喔 ! 我的天啊 !
we've got to go out there and clean this thing up . "	我們必須走出去那裡 , 清理這個東西 。 」
so i actually developed a proposal to go out with a cargo ship and two decommissioned fishing trawlers , a crane , a chipping machine and a coldmolding machine .	所以 , 我實際上研發了一個建議 , 兩度的捕魚 , 兩度的魚類 , 一隻螃蟹 , 一隻螃蟹 , 一隻螃蟹 , 牠和一隻寒冷的機器 。
and my intention was to go out to the gyre , raise awareness about this issue and begin to pick up the plastic , chip it into little bits and cold mold it into bricks that could potentially be used as building materials in underdeveloped communities .	而我的意見是要走出gyreyreis的意識 , 開始從塑膠、開始挑選塑膠、冷藏的塑膠 , 可以把它當作材料當作建築物的材料 。
i began talking with people who actually had been out to the gyre and were studying the plastic problem in the marine environment and upon doing so , i realized actually that cleaning it up would be a very small drop in the bucket relative to how much is being generated every day around the world , and that actually i needed to back up and look at the bigger picture .	我開始和研究的人談談到gyreyre , 研究塑膠問題 , 在海洋環境環境中 , 我發現 , 清潔它會是個非常小的飲料 , 每天我都得要回到世界各地各地 , 我需要回到世界各地的照片 。
and the bigger picture is: we need to find a way to turn off the faucet .	更大的圖片是:我們需要找到方法的方法 。
we need to cut the spigot of singleuse and disposable plastics , which are entering the marine environment every day on a global scale .	我們需要把單一的產物和可避免塑膠 , 每天都進入全球規模的海洋環境 。
so in looking at that , i also realized that i was really angry .	所以 , 看看這一點 , 我也意識到我真的很憤怒 。
i wasn't just concerned about plastic that you're trying to imagine out in the middle of the pacific ocean of which i have learned there are now 11 gyres , potentially , of plastic in five major oceans in the world .	我不只是擔心塑膠海洋中間的塑膠 , 而是我學到的塑膠海洋中間有11個玻璃 , 可能在五個大海裡 , 可能是 , 塑膠在五個大海洋裡 。
it's not just that gyre of plastic that i'm concerned about it's the gyre of plastic in the supermarket .	不只是塑膠我所說的 , 我擔心它是超市塑膠的魅力 。
i'd go to the supermarket and all of my food is packaged in plastic .	我要去超市超市和所有的食物都包包裝 。
all of my beverages are packaged in plastic , even at the health food market .	我所有人都在塑膠市場上包裝 , 即使在健康市場市場上 。
i'm also concerned about the plastic in the refrigerator , and i'm concerned about the plastic and the toxins that leach from plastic into us and into our bodies .	我也關心了塑膠 , 在咖啡廳裡 , 我很擔心塑膠和毒素 , 我擔心塑膠和毒素 , 從塑膠到我們的身體中 。
so i came together with a group of other people who were all looking at this issue , and we created the plastic pollution coalition .	所以 , 我和一群人一起看這個議題 , 我們創造了塑膠污染煤炭 。
we have many initiatives that we're working on , but some of them are very basic .	我們有許多正面的正面 , 但有些是非常基本的 。
one is: if 80 to 90 percent of what we're finding in the ocean of the marine debris that we're finding in the ocean is plastic , then why don't we call it what it is .	第一:如果有80%到海洋的海洋圖片 , 我們發現我們在海洋中發現的海洋是塑膠 , 那麼為什麼我們不稱它為它為甚麼 。
recycling everybody kind of ends their books about being sustainable and greening with the idea of recycling .	回收所有他們的書籍 , 關於保持穩定和綠色的概念 。
you put something in a bin and you don't have to think about it again .	你把東西放進蛋白質放進蛋白質的東西放在一起 。
what is the reality of that ?	那到底是什麼 ?
in the united states , less than seven percent of our plastics are recycled .	在美國 , 超過70%的塑膠是回收的 。
and if you really look into it , particularly when it comes to plastic bottles , most of it is only downcycled , or incinerated , or shipped to china .	如果你真的去看它 , 特別是當它來塑膠瓶 , 大部分是最低的 , 或者是中國 。
it is downcycled and turned into lesser things , while a glass bottle can be a glass bottle again or can be used again a plastic bottle can never be a plastic bottle again .	它被循環 , 轉化成較少的瓶子 , 雖然玻璃瓶可以再再再一次一次再一次塑膠瓶 , 也可以再再一次塑膠瓶 。
so this is a big issue for us .	這是我們對我們來說最大的議題 。
another thing that we're looking at and asking people to think about is we've added a fourth r onto the front of the " reduce , reuse , recycle , " three r's , and that is refuse .	另一件事 , 我們正在看著人們去思考 , 就是我們在 「 紅色 」 的第四個r , 回收、回收、回收、回收、回收、回收 , 那就是難民 。
whenever possible , refuse singleuse and disposable plastics .	然而如果可能 , 拒絕單一的塑膠和可避免塑膠 。
alternatives exist ; some of them are very oldschool .	替代性存在 ; 有些人非常古老的選擇 。
i myself am now collecting these cool pyrex containers and using those instead of glad and tupperware containers to store food in .	我現在現在在收集這些酷兒的精神 , 用這些方式來儲存這些酷兒 , 而不是玻璃 , 而是要儲存食物 。
and i know that i am doing a service to myself and my family .	我知道 , 我在做一個服務 , 以及我的家人 。
it's very easy to pick up a stainlesssteel bottle or a glass bottle , if you're traveling and you've forgotten to bring your stainlesssteel bottle and fill that up with water or filtered water , versus purchasing plastic bottled water .	很容易挑選一個無窮的瓶子或玻璃瓶 , 如果你旅行 , 你就忘記了 , 你就忘記了 , 你忘記了 , 用水或水、水、水、水、水、水、水、水、水、水、水、水、水、水、水、水、水 ,
i guess what i want to say to everybody here and i know that you guys know a lot about this issue is that this is a huge problem in the oceans , but this is a problem that we've created as consumers and we can solve .	我想告訴大家 , 我在這裡想告訴大家 , 你們知道很多關於這個議題 , 這是海洋中最大的問題 , 但這是我們創建的消費者 , 我們創造了消費者 , 我們可以解決 。
we can solve this by raising awareness of the issue and teaching people to choose alternatives .	我們可以透過議題來解決這個問題 , 並教導人們選擇選擇替代代代代方案 。
so whenever possible , to choose alternatives to singleuse plastics .	所以 , 若有選擇選擇替代塑膠 。
we can cut the stem tide the stem of this into our oceans and in doing so , save our oceans , save our planet , save ourselves .	我們可以把這些幹細胞切割成我們的海洋 , 拯救我們的海洋 , 拯救我們的地球 , 拯救我們的地球 , 拯救我們自己 。
this demo from pattie maes' lab at mit , spearheaded by pranav mistry was the buzz of ted . it's a wearable device with a projector that paves the way for profound interaction with our environment . imagine " minority report " and then some .	麻省理工學院在麻省理工學院的作品 , 由伊朗的ted演講中 , 這是個很可行的設備 , 一個可以用我們的環境來源 。 想像: 「 礦工報報報報告 」 然後一些 。
demo , design , interface design , technology	設計、設計、介面設計、技術、技術 。
pattie maes and pranav mistry demo sixthsense	pattimas和陌生的任務 。
i've been intrigued by this question of whether we could evolve or develop a sixth sense a sense that would give us seamless access and easy access to metainformation or information that may exist somewhere that may be relevant to help us make the right decision about whatever it is that we're coming across .	我一直被這個問題 , 無論我們是否能進化或開發一個六個感知 , 可以給我們一個六個感知 , 或資訊可能存在某些地方 , 可能存在某些地方可以幫助我們做出正確的決策 , 來協助我們做出正確的決定 。
and some of you may argue , well , don't today's cell phones do that already ?	有些人可能爭議 , 好 , 不要今天的手機做這件事嗎 ?
but i would say no .	但我不會說 。
when you meet someone here at ted and this is the top networking place , of course , of the year you don't shake somebody's hand and then say , " can you hold on for a moment while i take out my phone and google you ? "	當你參加ted , 這位是最頂尖的網路 , 當然 , 你不能羞辱某人手 , 然後說: 「 你能拿起手機和google嗎 ? 」
or when you go to the supermarket and you're standing there in that huge aisle of different types of toilet papers , you don't take out your cell phone , and open a browser , and go to a website to try to decide which of these different toilet papers is the most ecologically responsible purchase to make .	或者當你走到超市時 , 你站在那裡站在那裡 , 大量不同的廁所 , 你不會拿出手機 , 然後打開一支瀏覽器 , 打開一個瀏覽器 , 打開一堆不同的廁所 。
so we don't really have easy access to all this relevant information that can just help us make optimal decisions about what to do next and what actions to take .	所以我們不太容易取得這些相關資訊 , 可以幫助我們做出最佳的資訊 , 來協助我們做出最佳決策的決定 。
and so my research group at the media lab has been developing a series of inventions to give us access to this information in a sort of easy way , without requiring that the user changes any of their behavior .	所以 , 我的研究團隊在媒體實驗室研發了一系列發明了一系列的資訊 , 不管是用簡單的方式來改變它們的行為 。
and i'm here to unveil our latest effort , and most successful effort so far , which is still very much a work in process .	我在這裡來這裡展示我們的最新的努力努力 , 大部分成功的努力 , 大部分成功的努力 , 這仍然仍是非常有效的 。
i'm actually wearing the device right now and we've sort of cobbled it together with components that are off the shelf and that , by the way , only cost 350 dollars at this point in time .	實際上我現在正在使用裝置的裝置 , 我們將它與組合在一起 , 只有350美元 , 順便一提 , 只有350美元 。
i'm wearing a camera , just a simple webcam , a portable , batterypowered projection system with a little mirror .	我正在穿著攝影機 , 只是一個簡單的網絡 , 電池 , 電池系統和一個小鏡子 。
these components communicate to my cell phone in my pocket which acts as the communication and computation device .	這些元件傳播到我的口袋裡 , 在我的口袋裡 , 這些元件和計算裝置設備 。
and in the video here we see my student pranav mistry , who's really the genius who's been implementing and designing this whole system .	在影片中 , 我們看到我的學生 , 我真的很驕傲 , 他真的在改善和設計這個整個系統 。
and we see how this system lets him walk up to any surface and start using his hands to interact with the information that is projected in front of him .	我們看看這個系統如何讓他走到任何表面 , 開始用他的手臂來互動 , 用他的手臂來互動 。
the system tracks the four significant fingers .	系統追蹤四種巨大的手指 。
in this case , he's wearing simple marker caps that you may recognize .	在這個例子中 , 他正穿著簡單的標誌 , 你可能認知了 。
but if you want a more stylish version you could also paint your nails in different colors .	但如果你想更加穩定的版本 , 你也可以在不同的顏色 。
and the camera basically tracks these four fingers and recognizes any gestures that he's making so he can just go to , for example , a map of long beach , zoom in and out , etc .	攝影機基本上追蹤了這四個手指 , 他能認出他所做的 , 例如 , 長灘、長期的地圖 。
the system also recognizes iconic gestures such as the " take a picture " gesture , and then takes a picture of whatever is in front of you .	系統也意識到 , 像是 「 拍攝 」 的圖片 , 然後拍一張照片 , 然後拍一張照片 , 然後拍一張照片 。
and when he then walks back to the media lab , he can just go up to any wall and project all the pictures that he's taken , sort through them and organize them , and resize them , etc . , again using all natural gestures .	當他走回媒體實驗室時 , 他就能走到任何牆上 , 把所有照片帶到牆上 , 把它們放進 , 再次使用它們 , 再次利用它們 , 再次使用天然的天擇 。
so , some of you most likely were here two years ago and saw the demo by jeff han or some of you may think , " well , doesn't this look like the microsoft surface table ? "	所以 , 你們當中有些人可能想過: 「 傑夫 」 或有些人可能想: 「 嗯 , 這看起來不像微軟的表面嗎 ? 」
and yes , you also interact using natural gestures , both hands , etc .	沒錯 , 你也在使用自然的魅力 , 兩方面 , 等等 。
but the difference here is that you can use any surface , you can walk to up to any surface , including your hand if nothing else is available and interact with this projected data .	但這裡的差別是你可以用任何表面 , 包括你的手指 , 包括你的手指 , 如果沒有任何東西是可用的 , 來互動 。
the device is completely portable , and can be . . .	裝置完全可行 , 可以做到 。
so one important difference is that it's totally mobile .	重要的差別是 , 不管是行動的 。
another even more important difference is that in mass production this would not cost more tomorrow than today's cell phones and would actually not sort of be a bigger packaging could look a lot more stylish than this version that i'm wearing around my neck .	另外一個更重要的差異是 , 在大規模生產手機上 , 其實不是現今手機手機手機 , 而是不是像我一樣大 , 而是在我脖子上穿著我的脖子 。
but other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as tom cruise in " minority report , " the reason why we're really excited about this device is that it really can act as one of these sixthsense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you .	但 , 另一方面 , 讓我感到驚訝 , 就像mmmruisis的報告 , 「 我們為什麼真的很興奮 」 的原因是 , 我們對此感到興奮 , 就是它可以作為一個六個感測器 , 給你一些關於你面前的資訊 。
so we see pranav here going into the supermarket and he's shopping for some paper towels .	所以 , 我們看到這隻巨大的熊 , 他在購物上購買了一些紙巾 。
and , as he picks up a product the system can recognize the product that he's picking up , using either image recognition or marker technology , and give him the green light or an orange light .	而當他拿起一個產品系統可以辨識他在拿起的產品 , 用於他拿起來 , 用紅燈或橘色的技術 , 給他綠燈或橘色的光 。
he can ask for additional information .	他可以要求額外資訊 。
so this particular choice here is a particularly good choice , given his personal criteria .	所以這個特別選擇是好的選擇 , 給他的個人犯罪 。
some of you may want the toilet paper with the most bleach in it rather than the most ecologicallyresponsible choice .	你們當中有些人可能想用最高的紙張紙 , 而不是最生態的選擇 。
if he picks up a book in the bookstore , he can get an amazon rating it gets projected right on the cover of the book .	如果他拿起一本書 , 他就可以得到一個亞馬遜的書 , 他就可以在書上專案上 。
this is juan's book , our previous speaker , which gets a great rating , by the way , at amazon .	這是朱利安的書籍 , 我們的前面 , 順便說 , 亞馬遜 。
and so , pranav turns the page of the book and can then see additional information about the book reader comments , maybe sort of information by his favorite critic , etc .	所以 , 把書轉換成書籍的頁面 , 可以看到讀者最喜歡的資訊 , 也許透過他的最喜歡的批評 , 甚至是他最喜歡的批評 。
if he turns to a particular page he finds an annotation by maybe an expert of a friend of ours that gives him a little bit of additional information about whatever is on that particular page .	如果他轉到一個特殊的頁面 , 他發現了一種不起的朋友 , 給他一點一點一點額外資訊 , 給他一些關於特定的資訊 。
reading the newspaper it never has to be outdated .	閱讀報紙的報紙 , 從來沒有被忽略 。
you can get video annotations of the event that you're reading about you can get the latest sports scores etc .	你可以拍攝影片 , 你無法看到最新的事件 , 可以得到最新的運動場 。
this is a more controversial one .	這是個更具爭議性的 。
as you interact with someone at ted , maybe you can see a word cloud of the tags , the words that are associated with that person in their blog and personal web pages .	當你在ted的某個人互動時 , 也許你可以看到一個字雲朵的字面 , 字詞是和個人網頁裡的人交流 。
in this case , the student is interested in cameras , etc .	在這個例子中 , 學生對攝影機很感興趣 。
on your way to the airport , if you pick up your boarding pass , it can tell you that your flight is delayed , that the gate has changed , etc .	在你的機場上 , 如果你拿起你的車子 , 它可以告訴你你的飛機已經改變了 , 葡萄牙已經改變了 , 埃克已經改變了 。
and , if you need to know what the current time is it's as simple as drawing a watch on your arm .	如果你需要知道目前 , 目前你需要知道什麼是簡單的畫面 。
so that's where we're at so far in developing this sixth sense that would give us seamless access to all this relevant information about the things that we may come across .	這就是我們目前正在開發這個第六個感知 , 可以給我們所有這些相關的資訊 , 不論我們可能跨越這些相關的資訊 。
my student pranav , who's really , like i said , the genius behind this .	我的學生 , 我說 , 真的很像我說 , 在這後面 。
he does deserve a lot of applause because i don't think he's slept much in the last three months , actually .	他做了很多應用程式 , 因為我不認為他不認為他在過去三個月內 , 事實上 , 在過去三個月內 。
and his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either .	他的女友並不很高興 ,
but it's not perfect yet , it's very much a work in progress .	但這不是完美的 , 而是進步的進步 。
and who knows , maybe in another 10 years we'll be here with the ultimate sixth sense brain implant .	誰知道 , 也許在過去十年內 , 我們會在這裡和最高的大腦植入 。
phyllis rodriguez and aicha elwafi have a powerful friendship born of unthinkable loss . rodriguez' son was killed in the world trade center attacks on september 11 , 2001 ; elwafi's son zacarias moussaoui was convicted of a role in those attacks and is serving a life sentence . in hoping to find peace , these two moms have come to understand and respect one another .	phyllisrodrisz和ichaelwafi有一個強大的朋友出生於世界貿易中心被殺害了 , 2001年11月11日 , 2001年11月11日 , 2001年 , 2001年 , 2001年 , 2001年 , 伊斯蘭克斯蘭克斯蘭人和平 。
culture , global issues , politics	文化、全球議題、政治議題 。
9/11 healing: the mothers who found forgiveness , friendship	9/11的亨利:那些找到認知、友誼、友誼、友誼 。
phyllis rodriguez: we are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship .	幻想茲:我們今天這裡有大部分人認為我們有多人認為一個不尋常的友誼 。
and yet , it feels natural to us now .	然而 , 這感覺很自然地對我們來說很自然 。
i first learned that my son had been in the world trade center on the morning of september 11th , 2001 .	我第一次知道我的兒子已經在世界貿易中心 , 2001年11月11日 。
we didn't know if he had perished yet until 36 hours later .	我們不知道他是否有被告知 , 直到36小時後 。
at the time , we knew that it was political .	在那時 , 我們知道它是政治的 。
we were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son my husband , orlando , and i and our family .	我們被害怕我們的國家將會在我們的兒子的名字 , 或土地 , 我和我的家人 。
and when i saw it and yet , through the shock , the terrible shock , and the terrible explosion in our lives , literally , we were not vengeful .	當我看到它 , 當我看到它時 , 很糟糕的爆炸時 , 很糟糕的爆炸 , 真的 , 我們不幸 。
and a couple of weeks later when zacarias moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism , and the u . s . government called for a death penalty for him , if convicted , my husband and i spoke out in opposition to that , publicly .	幾週後 , 當zaciamoussaui被注意到 , 六分之六的混亂 , 美國政府稱呼恐怖主義 , 美國政府稱之為死刑 , 如果保守 , 我的丈夫 , 我和丈夫 。
through that and through human rights groups , we were brought together with several other victims' families .	透過人類權利團體 , 我們和其他受害者一起合作 。
when i saw aicha in the media , coming over when her son was indicted , and i thought , " what a brave woman .	當我在媒體上看到阿根廷時 , 到她兒子時 , 我心想: 「 勇敢女人 」 的勇氣 。
someday i want to meet that woman when i'm stronger . "	有一天 , 我想要見到那個女人的時候 。 」
i was still in deep grief ; i knew i didn't have the strength .	我仍然在深悲傷 , 我知道我沒有力量 。
i knew i would find her someday , or we would find each other .	我知道 , 我會找到她的日子 , 或者我們會找到彼此 。
because , when people heard that my son was a victim , i got immediate sympathy .	因為當人們聽到我兒子是個受害者 , 我得到立刻的對象 。
but when people learned what her son was accused of , she didn't get that sympathy .	但當人們知道她的兒子是被控訴 , 她沒有得到那樣的對象 。
but her suffering is equal to mine .	但她的苦難是平等的 。
so we met in november 2002 , and aicha will now tell you how that came about .	所以我們在2002年11月2日 , 阿根廷會告訴各位 , 這是怎麼回事 。
aicha elwafi: good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen .	aichaelwafi:好後午、女士、女士、女士 。
i am the mother of zacarias moussaoui .	我是阿拉伯的母親媽媽媽媽媽媽 。
and i asked the organization of human rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims .	我問了人類權利組織的組織 , 讓我和受害者的父母 。
so they introduced me to five families .	所以他們引導我到五個家庭 。
and i saw phyllis , and i watched her .	我看到phyllisis , 我看著她 。
she was the only mother in the group .	她只是在團體中唯一的母親 。
the others were brothers , sisters .	另一位是兄弟、姐妹 。
and i saw in her eyes that she was a mother , just like me .	我看到她是母親 , 她是個母親 , 就像我一樣 。
i suffered a lot as a mother .	我受苦了很多母親 。
i was married when i was 14 .	當我14歲的時候 , 我結婚了 。
i lost a child when i was 15 , a second child when i was 16 .	當我十五歲時 , 我失去了一個孩子時 , 第二個孩子 。
so the story with zacarias was too much really .	所以 , 和薩薩薩薩薩拉的故事太多 。
and i still suffer , because my son is like he's buried alive .	我仍然受苦 , 因為我的兒子就像他被埋葬了 。
i know she really cried for her son .	我知道她真的哭了 。
but she knows where he is .	但她知道他在哪裡 。
my son , i don't know where he is .	我的兒子 , 我不知道他在哪裡 。
i don't know if he's alive . i don't know if he's tortured .	我不知道他是否活著 , 我不知道他是否活著 。
i don't know what happened to him .	我不知道他發生什麼事 。
so that's why i decided to tell my story , so that my suffering is something positive for other women .	這就是為什麼我決定要告訴我的故事 , 所以我的苦惱是正面的 。
for all the women , all the mothers that give life , you can give back , you can change .	對所有婦女來說 , 所有的母親 , 你可以回復 , 你可以回復 。
it's up to us women , because we are women , because we love our children .	對我們來說 , 女人來說 , 因為我們很愛我們的孩子 。
we must be handinhand and do something together .	我們必須有手臂 , 一起做些什麼事 。
it's not against women , it's for us , for us women , for our children .	這不是對女性來說 , 對我們來說 , 對我們來說 , 對我們的孩子來說 , 對我們的孩子來說 ,
i talk against violence , against terrorism .	我對抗暴力 , 反抗恐怖主義 。
i go to schools to talk to young , muslim girls so they don't accept to be married against their will very young .	我去上學到年輕、穆斯林女孩 , 所以穆斯林女孩們 , 他們不接受他們 ,
so if i can save one of the young girls , and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as i did , well this is something good .	所以如果我可以拯救一個年輕女孩 , 避免了 , 避免和苦苦難 , 嗯 , 這是件好事 。
this is why i'm here in front of you .	這就是為什麼我在你們面前 。
pr: i would like to say that i have learned so much from aicha , starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members which was a very private meeting with security , because it was november 2002 , and , frankly , we were afraid of the superpatriotism of that time in the country those of us family members .	pr:我想說 , 我學到了很多來自阿根廷 , 從那天開始 , 我們和其他家庭成員 , 這是非常私人的成員 , 因為這不是2002年11月2002日 , 坦白說 , 我們是害怕的超級恐怖主義 。
but we were all so nervous .	但我們都很緊張 。
" why does she want to meet us ? "	「 為什麼她想要見我們 ? 」
and then she was nervous .	然後她很緊張 。
" why did we want to meet her ? "	「 為什麼我們想見她 ? 」
what did we want from each other ?	我們想要從彼此彼此的呢 ?
before we knew each others' names , or anything , we had embraced and wept .	在我們認識彼此的名字之前 , 我們有擁抱 , 不論是 , 我們有擁抱 。
then we sat in a circle with support , with help , from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation .	然後我們坐在一個圓圈裡 , 協助來自這種連結 , 從人體體體驗中的人體驗 。
and aicha started , and she said , " i don't know if my son is guilty or innocent , but i want to tell you how sorry i am for what happened to your families .	阿根廷開始 , 她說: 「 我不知道我的兒子是罪惡或無辜 , 但我想要告訴各位 , 我是如何對你的家庭有多抱歉 。
i know what it is to suffer , and i feel that if there is a crime , a person should be tried fairly and punished . "	我知道它是如何苦難 , 我覺得如果有犯罪 , 一個人應該被審判和懲罰 。 」
but she reached out to us in that way , and it was , i'd like to say , it was an icebreaker .	但她伸出去 , 我想要說 , 那是個冰淇淋 , 我想說 , 那是個冰淇淋 。
and what happened then is we all told our stories , and we all connected as human beings .	然後發生了什麼事 , 我們都都都跟人類一樣 。
by the end of the afternoon it was about three hours after lunch we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever .	在午餐結束後 , 大約有三小時後 , 我們感覺到 , 如果我們知道彼此彼此彼此 。
now what i learned from her , is a woman , not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then , and what was being done to her son , but the life she's had .	現在我從她身上學到的 , 是一位女人 , 不僅是如此慷慨的 , 而那就是她兒兒子做了什麼事 , 但她的生活是這樣做 。
i never had met someone with such a hard life , from such a totally different culture and environment from my own .	我從來沒有遇過這樣的艱難生活 , 從我自己的角度和環境 , 從我自己的角度來看 。
and i feel that we have a special connection , which i value very much .	我覺得 , 我們有一個特別的連結 , 我價值非常價值 。
and i think it's all about being afraid of the other , but making that step and then realizing , " hey , this wasn't so hard .	我認為這一切都很害怕 , 但讓這步驟感到害怕 , 然後開始意識到: 「 嘿 , 這不是太難 。
who else can i meet that i don't know , or that i'm so different from ? "	我誰能見到我不知道 , 還是誰 ? 」
so , aicha , do you have a couple of words for conclusion ?	所以 , 阿根廷 , 你有幾句話嗎 ?
because our time is up .	因為我們的時間是上升 。
aw: i wanted to say that we have to try to know other people , the other .	艾:我想說 , 我們必須試著知道其他人 , 其他人 。
you have to be generous , and your hearts must be generous , your mind must be generous .	你必須很慷慨 , 你的心臟必須要慷慨 , 你的心態一定很慷慨 。
you must be tolerant .	你一定要是陌生人 。
you have to fight against violence .	你必須對抗暴力 。
and i hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other .	我希望這一天我們都生活在和平靜和尊重彼此 。
this is what i wanted to say .	這就是我想說的 。
too much of the world lacks access to clean drinking water . engineer michael pritchard did something about it inventing the portable lifesaver filter , which can make the most revolting water drinkable in seconds . an amazing demo from tedglobal 2009 .	世界上太多缺乏水 , 工程師取得乾淨的水 。 工程師michaelrichard做了些什麼東西 , 可以在第二秒鐘上最棒的水滴 , 可以在第二天 , 2009年tedgloalballobal 。
business , demo , design , global issues , invention , technology , water	商業、設計、全球議題、發明、科技、水、水、水、水、水、水、水、水泥 。
michael pritchard's water filter turns filthy water drinkable	michaelrichard是水濾水的水濾水 。
i'd like to talk about a couple of things today .	我今天要談談幾件事 。
the first thing is water .	第一件事是水 。
now i see you've all been enjoying the water that's been provided for you here at the conference , over the past couple of days .	現在 , 我看到你們都很享受的水 , 已經提供你在咖啡廳裡 , 過去幾天 。
and i'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source .	我相信你們會覺得這是安全的源頭 。
but what if it wasn't ?	但如果不是這樣呢 ?
what if it was from a source like this ?	如果它來自一個像這樣的樣子 ?
then statistics would actually say that half of you would now be suffering with diarrhea .	然後統計數字會說 , 你現在可能有一半 。
i talked a lot in the past about statistics , and the provision of safe drinking water for all .	我在過去的統計數據中有很多安全飲料 , 證明安全飲用水 。
but they just don't seem to get through .	但他們看不到 。
and i think i've worked out why .	我認為我已經成功了 。
it's because , using current thinking , the scale of the problem just seems too huge to contemplate solving .	因為 , 使用目前的思想 , 問題似乎太大了 , 問題似乎太大了 。
so we just switch off: us , governments and aid agencies .	所以我們只是打開:我們、政府、政府和援助 。
well , today , i'd like to show you that through thinking differently , the problem has been solved .	今天 , 我想告訴各位 , 透過思考不同的思考 , 問題已經解決了 。
by the way , since i've been speaking , another 13 , 000 people around the world are suffering now with diarrhea .	順便一提 , 從我開始講 , 世界上有十三萬人 , 現在世界各地都受苦 。
and four children have just died .	四個孩子已經死了 。
i invented lifesaver bottle because i got angry .	我發明了生命sa版本 , 因為我有憤怒 。
i , like most of you , was sitting down , the day after christmas in 2004 , when i was watching the devastating news of the asian tsunami as it rolled in , playing out on tv .	我喜歡你們大多數人 , 坐在2004年後 , 聖誕節後 , 當我看著聖誕節時 , 我在電視上看電視時 , 玩樂在電視上玩 。
the days and weeks that followed , people fleeing to the hills , being forced to drink contaminated water or face death .	日子和週遭 , 人們飛到山丘上 , 被迫害的水或臉孔死亡 。
that really stuck with me .	這真的讓我感到困惑 。
then , a few months later , hurricane katrina slammed into the side of america .	接著 , 幾個月後 , 颶風卡崔娜在美國的一邊 。
" okay , " i thought , " here's a first world country , let's see what they can do . "	「 好吧 , 我在想: 「 這是第一個國家 , 我們來看看他們能做什麼 。 」
do you know it took five days to get water to the superdome ?	你知道 , 花了五天才能到超級青少年 ?
people were shooting each other on the streets for tv sets and water .	人們在電視上拍攝彼此的街道上 。
that's when i decided i had to do something .	當我決定要做些什麼 。
now i spent a lot of time in my garage , over the next weeks and months , and also in my kitchen much to the dismay of my wife .	現在 , 我花了很多時間 , 在我身上花了很多時間和幾個月 , 同時在我太太太太太棒了 。
however , after a few failed prototypes , i finally came up with this , the lifesaver bottle .	然而 , 在幾次失敗後 , 我終於和這個 , 生命sa版本 。
okay , now for the science bit .	好吧 , 現在科學一點 。
before lifesaver , the best hand filters were only capable of filtering down to about 200 nanometers .	在生命sa版本之前 , 最好的手濾器只能在200000英尺 。
the smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers .	最小的細菌大約是200奈米粒子 。
so a 200nanometer bacteria is going to get through a 200nanometer hole .	在20000000000英尺的細菌將會從2000000英尺 。
the smallest virus , on the other hand , is about 25 nanometers .	另一方面 , 最小的病毒大約是25奈米粒子 。
so that's definitely going to get through those 200 nanometer holes .	所以這對200奈米粒子的洞穴 。
lifesaver pores are 15 nanometers .	生命版本是15奈米粒子 。
so nothing is getting through .	所以 , 什麼都沒有經歷過 。
okay , i'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration .	好的 , 我要給各位一點展示一下 。
would you like to see that ?	你想知道嗎 ?
i spent all the time setting this up , so i guess i should .	我花了這張圖 , 所以我猜我應該要做的 。
we're in the fine city of oxford .	我們在墨西哥市中心 。
so someone's done that up .	所以有人這麼做了 。
fine city of oxford , so what i've done is i've gone and got some water from the river cherwell , and the river thames , that flow through here . and this is the water .	牛津的牛津城市 , 所以我完成了一些水源 , 從河流到河岸 , 從河流到河岸 , 河流流流 , 這是水 。
but i got to thinking , you know , if we were in the middle of a flood zone in bangladesh , the water wouldn't look like this .	但我必須思考 , 如果我們在孟加拉的中間 , 如果我們在孟加拉的中間 , 水不會像這樣 。
so i've gone and got some stuff to add into it .	所以我走了一些東西 , 拿到一些東西 。
and this is from my pond .	這是從我的兒子身上得到的 。
have a smell of that , mister cameraman .	那個 , 任務攝影機攝影機 。
we're just going to pour that in there .	我們要在那兒 。
michael pritchard: okay . we've got some runoff from a sewage plant farm .	michaelrichard:好的 , 我們有一些從一個秘密計劃農場農場農場農場 。
so i'm just going to put that in there .	所以我要把它放到那裏 。
put that in there . there we go .	把它放在那裏 。 我們去了 。
and some other bits and pieces , chuck that in there .	有些其他的點子和碎片 , 抓住了 。
and i've got a gift here from a friend of mine's rabbit .	我這裡有個禮物來自一位朋友的禮物 。
so we're just going to put that in there as well .	所以我們要把這點放在那裏 。
the lifesaver bottle works really simply .	生命版本真的簡單 。
you just scoop the water up .	你只是把水放起來 。
today i'm going to use a jug just to show you all . let's get a bit of that poo in there .	今天我要用一個判斷給大家看 。 讓我們來看看這裡 。 讓我們來看看這裡 。
that's not dirty enough . let's just stir that up a little bit .	這不是太髒了 , 咱們來看看這一點 。
okay , so i'm going to take this really filthy water , and put it in here . do you want a drink yet ?	好吧 , 所以我要把這個非常棒的水 , 把它放在這裡 。 你想喝酒嗎 ?
okay . there we go .	好的 , 我們去了 。
give it a few pumps . okay ?	給它幾個輸入 。 好嗎 ?
that's all that's necessary .	這就是必要的必要 。
now as soon as i pop the teat , sterile drinking water is going to come out .	很快快地當我把水帶走出來 。
i've got to be quick . okay , ready ?	我得很快快 。 好吧 , 準備好了嗎 ?
there we go . mind the electrics .	我們去了 。 腦袋 。
that is safe , sterile drinking water .	這是安全、儲存水 。
there you go chris .	你去克里斯 。
what's it taste of ?	它的味道是什麼 ?
let's see chris's program throughout the rest of the show . okay ?	我們來看看克里斯的程式碼 , 好嗎 ?
okay . lifesaver bottle is used by thousands of people around the world .	好的 , 生命樣本是由數千人所使用的 。
it'll last for 6 , 000 liters .	最後到六千個字母 。
and when it's expired , using failsafe technology , the system will shut off , protecting the user .	當它很昂貴 , 使用失敗技術時 , 系統會將消失 , 保護使用者 , 保護使用者 。
pop the cartridge out . pop a new one in .	把車子放進去 。 一步是新的 。
it's good for another 6 , 000 liters .	這對另一萬六千個字母 。
so let's look at the applications .	讓我們來看看應用程式 。
traditionally , in a crisis , what do we do ?	傳統上 , 在危機中 , 我們該怎麼做 ?
then , after a few weeks , we set up camps .	接著 , 幾週後 , 我們設立了洞穴 。
and people are forced to come into the camps to get their safe drinking water .	而人們被迫害到洞穴裡 , 讓他們安全飲食水 。
what happens when 20 , 000 people congregate in a camp ?	當貓在洞穴中發生什麼事 ?
diseases spread . more resources are required .	疾病傳播更多資源都需要 。
the problem just becomes selfperpetuating .	問題只是變成自我專業 。
but by thinking differently , and shipping these , people can stay put .	但藉由思考不同的角度 , 人們可以留下這些人可以留下來 。
they can make their own sterile drinking water , and start to get on with rebuilding their homes and their lives .	他們可以製造自己的儲蓄水 , 開始從家裡開始 , 開始從回家和他們的生命 。
now , it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work .	現在 , 它不需要自然災難 。
using the old thinking , of national infrastructure and pipe work , is too expensive .	用舊思想、國家基礎建設和pipe工作 , 太昂貴了 。
when you run the numbers on a calculator , you run out of noughts .	當你在計算機上計算機時 , 你會從鼻子上跑出來 。
so here is the " thinking different " bit .	這是 「 思考不同的 」 的意思 。
instead of shipping water , and using manmade processes to do it , let's use mother nature . she's got a fantastic system .	不是船隻的水 , 而是用人工程系統來做它 , 我們用大自然 。 她有一個很棒的系統 。
she picks the water up from there , desalinates it , for free , transports it over there , and dumps it onto the mountains , rivers , and streams .	她從那裡挑選水中挑選水 , 免費、運輸、運輸、河流、河流、河流、河流 。
and where do people live ? near water .	而人們住在哪裡 ? 近水 。
all we've go to do is make it sterile . how do we do that ?	我們要做的就是讓它穩定 。 我們該怎麼做 ?
well , we could use the lifesaver bottle .	嗯 , 我們可以用生命版本 。
or we could use one of these .	或者 , 我們可以用這些方法來使用其中之一 。
the same technology , in a jerry can .	同樣的科技 , 在耶里斯可以 。
this will process 25 , 000 liters of water ; that's good enough for a family of four , for three years .	這個過程將會花25萬五千個水 ; 對於一個四、三年來就夠好 。
and how much does it cost ?	花費多少錢 ?
about half a cent a day to run .	大約有一半的時間來跑 。
so , by thinking differently , and processing water at the point of use , mothers and children no longer have to walk four hours a day to collect their water .	所以 , 藉由思考不同的使用 , 母親和孩子不再需要四小時四小時的時間來收集水 。
they can get it from a source nearby .	牠們可以從附近的收集 。
so with just eight billion dollars , we can hit the millennium goal's target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water .	所以 , 只要有八十億美元 , 我們就能僱用非營利目標的目標 , 沒有安全飲用水 。
to put that into context , the u . k . government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid .	為了把這句話放進了美國政府花了大約十億磅 。
but why stop there ?	但為什麼停在那裡 ?
with 20 billion dollars , everyone can have access to safe drinking water .	有20億美元 , 每個人都能取得安全飲用水 。
so the threeandahalf billion people that suffer every year as a result , and the two million kids that die every year , will live .	所以每年有三十五億人 , 受苦者每年死亡 , 每年有兩百萬個孩子 , 都會活下來 。
paddy ashdown claims that we are living in a moment in history where power is changing in ways it never has before . in a spellbinding talk at tedxbrussels he outlines the three major global shifts that he sees coming .	幸運的是 , 我們在歷史上生活的時刻 , 力量正在改變它從未有過的時刻 , 在tedxbrusel的演講中 , 他在tedxbrusel , 他看到了三個主要全球轉變 。
foreign policy , global issues , politics , world cultures	外國政策、政治、政治、政治、政治、政治、世界文化、
paddy ashdown: the global power shift	幸運的是 , 全球權力轉變 。
there's a poem written by a very famous english poet at the end of the 19th century .	在19世紀末末 , 有一首詩的英文詩 , 在19世紀末末 ,
it was said to echo in churchill's brain in the 1930s .	那是193030年代的腦袋裡 。
and the poem goes: " on the idle hill of summer , lazy with the flow of streams , hark i hear a distant drummer , drumming like a sound in dreams , far and near and low and louder on the roads of earth go by , dear to friend and food to powder , soldiers marching , soon to die . "	詩人說: 「 在夏天 , 我和夏天的流動 , 笑著我聽到一個奇怪的飲料 , 像是夢裡的聲音 , 我聽到一個遙遠的飲食 , 到地球上 。 」
those who are interested in poetry , the poem is " a shropshire lad " written by a . e . housman .	詩人對詩人感到興趣 , 詩是 「 商店 」 寫著 「 店 」 寫作 」 寫作 。
but what housman understood , and you hear it in the symphonies of nielsen too , was that the long , hot , silvan summers of stability of the 19th century were coming to a close , and that we were about to move into one of those terrifying periods of history when power changes .	但霍爾曼了解到 , 你也聽到它 , 在尼爾的象徵中聽到它 , 長期、熱情、熱情、熱情、熱情、熱情的夏天 , 我們要搬進過去的一步 , 我們要搬到歷史中 , 當我們改變歷史的力量 。
and these are always periods , ladies and gentlemen , accompanied by turbulence , and all too often by blood .	這些都是永久的、女士、女士、女士、女士、女士 , 都被血液 。
and my message for you is that i believe we are condemned , if you like , to live at just one of those moments in history when the gimbals upon which the established order of power is beginning to change and the new look of the world , the new powers that exist in the world , are beginning to take form .	我的訊息是 , 我相信我們是擔心的 , 如果你喜歡 , 在歷史上 , 只要你活在歷史上最高的力量之一之一 , 就能改變世界 , 世界的新勢力是開始改變 , 世界的新勢力是開始的 。
and these are and we see it very clearly today nearly always highly turbulent times , highly difficult times , and all too often very bloody times .	這些都是今天我們看到的 , 很顯然 , 幾乎總是很高 , 而且常常常常常很血腥 。
by the way , it happens about once every century .	順便一提 , 每世紀都發生了 。
you might argue that the last time it happened and that's what housman felt coming and what churchill felt too was that when power passed from the old nations , the old powers of europe , across the atlantic to the new emerging power of the united states of america the beginning of the american century .	你可能會說 , 最後一次它發生了 , 那就是華盛頓的感受 , 以及教堂的感受 , 當歐洲從古老的國家開始 , 到歐洲 , 在大西洋的新興力量 , 橫跨美國世紀初期的力量 。
and of course , into the vacuum where the tooold european powers used to be were played the two bloody catastrophes of the last century the one in the first part and the one in the second part: the two great world wars .	當然 , 在過去的世紀中 , 歐洲權力已經扮演了兩個血管 , 首先 , 在過去一世紀初 , 第二部份是:兩個偉大的戰爭 。
mao zedong used to refer to them as the european civil wars , and it's probably a more accurate way of describing them .	馬羅曾經曾經被迫害到歐洲民戰鬥 , 可能更加準確的方式 , 可能更準確的方式描述他們 。
well , ladies and gentlemen , we live at one of those times .	嗯 , 女士們 , 我們住在這些時候 。
but for us , i want to talk about three factors today .	但對我們來說 , 我想談三個因素 。
and the first of these , the first two of these , is about a shift in power .	首先 , 這些都是關於權力的轉變 。
and the second is about some new dimension which i want to refer to , which has never quite happened in the way it's happening now .	第二個是關於一些新的方向 , 我想重新設計師 , 這從來沒有發生過的事 。
but let's talk about the shifts of power that are occurring to the world .	但我們來談談這個權力改變世界的改變 。
and what is happening today is , in one sense , frightening because it's never happened before .	今天發生的是 , 在某種意義上 , 因為它從未發生過的事 。
we have seen lateral shifts of power the power of greece passed to rome and the power shifts that occurred during the european civilizations but we are seeing something slightly different .	後來我們看到希臘的力量轉變為羅馬和權力轉移到羅馬和權力轉變 , 但我們看到了一些事情 。
for power is not just moving laterally from nation to nation .	權力不只是從國家搬到國家 。
it's also moving vertically .	它也在移動了版本 。
what's happening today is that the power that was encased , held to accountability , held to the rule of law , within the institution of the nation state has now migrated in very large measure onto the global stage .	今天發生的是 , 國內的力量 , 他告訴了法律 , 他告訴了法律 , 在美國國家的規則中 , 在非常大的測量 , 在全球階段中 , 非常大的測量 。
the globalization of power we talk about the globalization of markets , but actually it's the globalization of real power .	我們談到市場的全球化化化 , 但事實上它是真實力量的全球化化化 。
and where , at the nation state level that power is held to accountability subject to the rule of law , on the international stage it is not .	在那裡 , 在國際階段中 , 權力是他要求法律 , 在國際階段 , 不是 。
the international stage and the global stage where power now resides: the power of the internet , the power of the satellite broadcasters , the power of the money changers this vast moneygoround that circulates now 32 times the amount of money necessary for the trade it's supposed to be there to finance the money changers , if you like , the financial speculators that have brought us all to our knees quite recently , the power of the multinational corporations now developing budgets often bigger than mediumsized countries .	國際舞台和全球舞台的力量:現在網際網路的力量 , 衛星的力量力量 , 金錢改變了這個巨大的金錢改變了這個巨大的金錢 , 將錢轉換為貿易的貿易金錢轉換為我們所需的金錢 , 將錢轉換為我們所帶來的財務 , 例如 , 如果你的財政部門 。
these live in a global space which is largely unregulated , not subject to the rule of law , and in which people may act free of constraint .	這些生活在一個全球空間中 , 不管是法律的規則 , 而在那些人可能自由的規則 。
now that suits the powerful up to a moment .	現在 , 突然間有強大的力量 。
it's always suitable for those who have the most power to operate in spaces without constraint , but the lesson of history is that , sooner or later , unregulated space space not subject to the rule of law becomes populated , not just by the things you wanted international trade , the internet , etc . but also by the things you don't want international criminality , international terrorism .	總之總是永續發展最有權力的人 , 沒有矛盾 , 但歷史歷史的教訓就是這樣 , 不久 , 不久 , 不管是法律的 , 不是你想要國際貿易、網際貿易、網際貿易、國際貿易、國際貿易、國際貿易、國際貿易、國際貿易、國際貿易、國際貿易、非政府主義 。
the revelation of 9/11 is that even if you are the most powerful nation on earth , nevertheless , those who inhabit that space can attack you even in your most iconic of cities one bright september morning .	911事件是 , 即使你是地球上最強大的國家 , 除非 , 除非 , 那些在你大部分城市中最強大的城市之一 。
it's said that something like 60 percent of the four million dollars that was taken to fund 9/11 actually passed through the institutions of the twin towers which 9/11 destroyed .	它說 , 大約有60%的錢是為了募款9/11 , 其實是從塔塔塔到鎮鎮鎮上 , 911事件被摧毀了 。
you see , our enemies also use this space the space of mass travel , the internet , satellite broadcasters to be able to get around their poison , which is about destroying our systems and our ways .	你知道嗎 , 我們的敵人也使用這個空間 , 網路、網路、衛星、衛星、衛星、衛星、衛星和我們的方式 。
sooner or later , sooner or later , the rule of history is that where power goes governance must follow .	很快 , 不久後 , 歷史的規則是 , 權力的規則必須遵循 。
and if it is therefore the case , as i believe it is , that one of the phenomenon of our time is the globalization of power , then it follows that one of the challenges of our time is to bring governance to the global space .	如果這是我相信這個案例 , 就像我相信這是我們時代的一個現象之一的全球化 , 然後它遵循我們時間的挑戰之一 , 然後它遵循全球空間的挑戰之一 。
and i believe that the decades ahead of us now will be to a greater or lesser extent turbulent the more or less we are able to achieve that aim: to bring governance to the global space .	我相信 , 十年來 , 我們現在將會成為更大 , 或更少的外星人 , 才能達到這個目標:帶領目標:把目標轉換到全球空間 。
now notice , i'm not talking about government .	現在注意到 , 我不是在談論政府 。
i'm not talking about setting up some global democratic institution .	我不是要談設定一些全球民主機構 。
my own view , by the way , ladies and gentlemen , is that this is unlikely to be done by spawning more u . n . institutions .	我自己的觀點來看 , 女士們們 , 就是這真的很不可思議地做過更多u.機構 。
if we didn't have the u . n . , we'd have to invent it .	如果我們沒有美國 , 我們就得要發明它 。
the world needs an international forum .	世界需要一個國際消費者 。
it needs a means by which you can legitimize international action .	它需要一個意思是 , 你可以合法化國際行動 。
but when it comes to governance of the global space , my guess is this won't happen through the creation of more u . n . institutions .	但當它來到全球空間時 , 我的猜測是這不是透過創造更多美國的創意 。
it will actually happen by the powerful coming together and making treatybased systems , treatybased agreements , to govern that global space .	實際上 , 它會是由強大的組成 , 以治療基礎設施 , 將全球空間轉化為基礎 。
and if you look , you can see them happening , already beginning to emerge .	如果你看 , 你可以看到他們正在發生 , 已經開始擁抱 。
the world trade organization: treatybased organization , entirely treatybased , and yet , powerful enough to hold even the most powerful , the united states , to account if necessary .	世界貿易組織:治療y基礎組織 , 完全對待最強大 , 但強大到美國 , 如果必要的必要 。
kyoto: the beginnings of struggling to create a treatybased organization .	kyoto:掙扎創造一個治療組織的初步 。
the g20: we know now that we have to put together an institution which is capable of bringing governance to that financial space for financial speculation .	g20:我們現在知道 , 我們必須一起組合一個機構 , 讓金融空間能帶來更平衡的平衡空間 。
and that's what the g20 is , a treatybased institution .	這就是g2020年 , 一個治療基礎的機構 。
now there's a problem there , and we'll come back to it in a minute , which is that if you bring the most powerful together to make the rules in treatybased institutions , to fill that governance space , then what happens to the weak who are left out ?	現在有一個問題 , 我們會回到它 , 在一分鐘內 , 如果你把最強大的機構結合在一起 , 那就就是 , 以治療基礎設施的規則 , 來填補這些弱點 , 那麼弱點會發生什麼事 ?
and that's a big problem , and we'll return to it in just a second .	這是個很大的問題 , 我們會回到一秒鐘 。
so there's my first message , that if you are to pass through these turbulent times more or less turbulently , then our success in doing that will in large measure depend on our capacity to bring sensible governance to the global space .	所以 , 我的第一個訊息是 , 如果你通過這些外科手術時 , 我們的成功率更少 , 然後我們的成功 , 我們的成功 , 將成功地放在全球空間中 , 將成功地帶到全球空間中 。
and watch that beginning to happen .	看看那一開始發生 。
my second point is , and i know i don't have to talk to an audience like this about such a thing , but power is not just shifting vertically , it's also shifting horizontally .	我的第二點是 , 我知道我不需要跟像這樣的觀眾談話 , 但權力不只是轉變版版版本 。
you might argue that the story , the history of civilizations , has been civilizations gathered around seas with the first ones around the mediterranean , the more recent ones in the ascendents of western power around the atlantic .	你可能會說故事 , 文明歷史文明的歷史歷史 , 一直在文明中 , 有文明的第一件事 , 在西方的西方國家 , 越是西洋棋的 。
well it seems to me that we're now seeing a fundamental shift of power , broadly speaking , away from nations gathered around the atlantic [seaboard] to the nations gathered around the pacific rim .	這似乎對我來說 , 我們現在看到一個基本的改變 , 廣泛地說話 , 從國際大西洋的國家 , 從西洋流到西洋棋 , 從太平洋到太平洋 。
now that begins with economic power , but that's the way it always begins .	這從經濟權力開始 , 但這一切總是開始 。
you already begin to see the development of foreign policies , the augmentation of military budgets occurring in the other growing powers in the world .	你已經開始看到外國政策的發展 , 軍事預算發生在其他成長過程中 , 在其他成長的力量中 。
i think actually this is not so much a shift from the west to the east ; something different is happening .	我認為這並不是從西方到東岸的轉變 , 不同的發生 。
my guess is , for what it's worth , is that the united states will remain the most powerful nation on earth for the next 10 years , 15 , but the context in which she holds her power has now radically altered ; it has radically changed .	我的猜測是 , 對美國而言 , 美國將會維持最強大的國家將會維持最強大的國家 , 但她在未來十年內 , 15年 , 她把她的權力已經改變了 。
we are coming out of 50 years , most unusual years , of history in which we have had a totally monopolar world , in which every compass needle for or against has to be referenced by its position to washington a world bestrode by a single colossus .	我們從五十年來 , 大部分的歷史中 , 歷史上我們必須完全現代的歷史 , 無論是對華盛頓世界最好的 , 無論是華盛頓世界最好的 。
but that's not a usual case in history .	但這不是一個常見的例子 。
in fact , what's now emerging is the much more normal case of history .	事實上 , 現在 , 現場的歷史更常見 。
you're beginning to see the emergence of a multipolar world .	你開始看到一個多元世界的力量 。
up until now , the united states has been the dominant feature of our world .	直到現在 , 美國是世界上最小的特徵 。
they will remain the most powerful nation , but they will be the most powerful nation in an increasingly multipolar world .	他們會維持最強大的國家 , 但他們將是世界上最強大的國家 。
and you begin to see the alternative centers of power building up in china , of course , though my own guess is that china's ascent to greatness is not smooth .	當然 , 你開始看到中國的替代中心中心 , 當然 , 我的猜測是中國的 , 但我的猜測並不是抽菸 。
it's going to be quite grumpy as china begins to democratize her society after liberalizing her economy .	這將會是中國開始民主的社會開始民主 , 將她民主化化為她的社會化 。
but that's a subject of a different discussion .	但這是個不同的討論 。
you see india , you see brazil .	你看印度 , 你看到巴西 。
you see increasingly that the world now looks actually , for us europeans , much more like europe in the 19th century .	你現在看到了這個世界看起來真的 , 對我們歐洲人來說 , 更像歐洲一樣 , 更像歐洲一樣 。
europe in the 19th century: a great british foreign secretary , lord canning , used to describe it as the " european concert of powers . "	19世紀 , 在19世紀 , 一個偉大的英國人 , 倫敦可以描述它為 「 歐盟 」 。
there was a balance , a fivesided balance .	平衡 , 有一個平衡的平衡 。
britain always played to the balance .	英國總是扮演平衡的平衡 。
if paris got together with berlin , britain got together with vienna and rome to provide a counterbalance .	如果巴黎和柏林一起合作 , 英國和羅馬一起合作 , 要提供一個更平衡 。
now notice , in a period which is dominated by a monopolar world , you have fixed alliances nato , the warsaw pact .	注意到 , 在一個永久的世界中 , 被一個月球的世界中 , 你有固定的所有技巧 , 戰爭sawpt 。
a fixed polarity of power means fixed alliances .	一個固定的權力 , 意味著固定所有技能 。
but a multiple polarity of power means shifting and changing alliances .	但有許多權力的力量意味著轉變和改變平衡 。
and that's the world we're coming into , in which we will increasingly see that our alliances are not fixed .	這就是我們正在進入這個世界 , 我們將會非常明顯地看到我們的平衡並不是被解決的 。
canning , the great british foreign secretary once said , " britain has a common interest , but no common allies . "	可以否否認 , 偉大英國安全局說: 「 英國有共同點 , 但沒有共同點 。 」
and we will see increasingly that even we in the west will reach out , have to reach out , beyond the cozy circle of the atlantic powers to make alliances with others if we want to get things done in the world .	我們將看到在西方國家裡 , 即使我們會到西方國家 , 必須伸出 , 除非西洋力的循環 , 才能讓世界各地各地的事物 。
note , that when we went into libya , it was not good enough for the west to do it alone ; we had to bring others in .	注意到 , 當我們進入libya時 , 這並不夠好 , 我們必須把其他人帶給其他人 。
we had to bring , in this case , the arab league in .	在這個例子中 , 我們必須把阿拉伯的同事 。
my guess is iraq and afghanistan are the last times when the west has tried to do it themselves , and we haven't succeeded .	我的猜測是伊拉克和阿富汗是最後一次 , 當我們試圖做自己 , 我們沒有成功 。
my guess is that we're reaching the beginning of the end of 400 years i say 400 years because it's the end of the ottoman empire of the hegemony of western power , western institutions and western values .	我的猜測是 , 我們在400年結束後 , 我說400年 , 因為它是蘇曼帝國的末端 , 因為它是西方的西方國家 , 西方機構和西方價值觀 。
you know , up until now , if the west got its act together , it could propose and dispose in every corner of the world .	直到現在 , 直到現在 , 如果我們把它放在一起 , 它就能提議和全世界各個角落 。
but that's no longer true .	但這不是真的 。
take the last financial crisis after the second world war .	在第二次世界暖化危機之後 ,
the west got together the bretton woods institution , world bank , international monetary fund the problem solved .	西方機構團結在一起 , 世界銀行、國際手機銀行、國際手機、國際手機、國際手機、國際手機 。
now we have to call in others .	現在我們必須打電話給其他人 。
now we have to create the g20 .	現在我們必須創造g20年 。
now we have to reach beyond the cozy circle of our western friends .	現在 , 我們得要達成我們的西方朋友 。
let me make a prediction for you , which is probably even more startling .	讓我舉個預測 , 可能更開始思考 。
i suspect we are now reaching the end of 400 years when western power was enough .	我猜我們現在已經到達400年了 , 當西方權力已經夠了 。
people say to me , " the chinese , of course , they'll never get themselves involved in peacemaking , multilateral peacemaking around the world . "	人們對我說: 「 中國中國人 , 當然 , 他們永遠無法參與和平靜、多樣化、多元文化和平 。 」
oh yes ? why not ?	哦 , 為什麼不 ? 為什麼不 ?
how many chinese troops are serving under the blue beret , serving under the blue flag , serving under the u . n . command in the world today ?	有多少中國的太空人在藍色的底下有多少中國人在藍色旗下下下 , 保持在美國 , 保持在美國 。
how many americans ? 11 .	有多少美國人 ? 11歲 。
what is the largest naval contingent tackling the issue of somali pirates ?	什麼是最大的奈及利益的議題呢 ?
the chinese naval contingent .	中國納谷的內容 。
of course they are , they are a mercantilist nation .	當然他們是 , 他們是農夫的國家 。
they want to keep the sea lanes open .	他們想要保持海層開放 。
increasingly , we are going to have to do business with people with whom we do not share values , but with whom , for the moment , we share common interests .	令人驚訝的是 , 我們要和那些我們不分享價值的人 , 但對此刻 , 至於誰 , 我們共享的興趣 。
it's a whole new different way of looking at the world that is now emerging .	這是一個全新的不同的角度來看世界 , 現在正在擁抱的世界 。
and here's the third factor , which is totally different .	這是第三個工廠 , 完全不同 。
today in our modern world , because of the internet , because of the kinds of things people have been talking about here , everything is connected to everything .	今天在我們的現代世界 , 因為網際網路 , 人們一直在談論這件事 , 一切都連結到一切 。
we are now interdependent .	我們現在正在詮釋 。
we are now interlocked , as nations , as individuals , in a way which has never been the case before , never been the case before .	我們現在在國際 , 作為個人 , 身為個人 , 在某種程度上 , 從未曾被過過來 。
the interrelationship of nations , well it's always existed .	國際的國際關係 , 總是存在 。
diplomacy is about managing the interrelationship of nations .	外交是關於國際的國際關係 。
but now we are intimately locked together .	但現在我們不幸地被鎖定了 。
you get swine flu in mexico , it's a problem for charles de gaulle airport 24 hours later .	你在墨西哥的墨西哥 , 它是個問題 , 為查爾斯飛機24小時後 。
lehman brothers goes down , the whole lot collapses .	萊曼兄弟走下去 , 很多崩潰了 。
there are fires in the steppes of russia , food riots in africa .	在俄羅斯的步驟中 , 食物根源在非洲 。
we are all now deeply , deeply , deeply interconnected .	我們現在都深深深深深深深深深深深深深刻 。
and what that means is the idea of a nation state acting alone , not connected with others , not working with others , is no longer a viable proposition .	這意味著 , 國家行動獨自行動的概念 , 不是與其他人合作 , 而不是與其他人合作 , 而是不再是可靠的 。
because the actions of a nation state are neither confined to itself , nor is it sufficient for the nation state itself to control its own territory , because the effects outside the nation state are now beginning to affect what happens inside them .	因為一個國家的行動行為行為 , 不管是自己對國家來說 , 沒有效率 , 沒有效率 , 因為國家本身的效果 , 現在就開始影響自己的恐怖狀態 。
i was a young soldier in the last of the small empire wars of britain .	我是一位年輕士兵在英國最小的帝國戰爭中 。
at that time , the defense of my country was about one thing and one thing only: how strong was our army , how strong was our air force , how strong was our navy and how strong were our allies .	那時 , 我的國家是關於我國家的一件事 , 只有一件事:我們的軍隊 , 我們的軍隊 , 我們的軍隊 , 以及我們的軍隊 , 以及我們的軍隊 。
that was when the enemy was outside the walls .	那就是當敵人在牆壁外外面 。
now the enemy is inside the walls .	敵人在牆壁裡 。
now if i want to talk about the defense of my country , i have to speak to the minister of health because pandemic disease is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of agriculture because food security is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of industry because the fragility of our hitech infrastructure is now a point of attack for our enemies as we see from cyber warfare i have to speak to the minister of home affairs because who has entered my country , who lives in that terraced house in that inner city has a direct effect on what happens in my country as we in london saw in the 7/7 bombings .	如果我想要談談我的國家 , 我必須跟我說話 , 我必須和健康 , 因為心理疾病是一種威脅 , 我必須跟我說話 , 因為食物安全是一種威脅 , 因為食物安全是一種威脅 , 我必須跟我說話 , 因為食物安全是個威脅 , 我必須跟我說話 , 因為食物安全的確保我們的國家 , 在我們的國會議中 , 在我們的國會議中 , 在我國會中 , 我們看到的政策上 , 和戰爭中 , 77月77777月77月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7月7日 , 我得以來 , 我的國會發生在我的國會發生了
it's no longer the case that the security of a country is simply a matter for its soldiers and its ministry of defense .	它不再是國家安全的安全狀況 , 只是為了它士兵的安全 , 且它的礦坑 , 它的礦坑 。
it's its capacity to lock together its institutions .	它是有能力將它鎖定起來 。
and this tells you something very important .	這告訴各位一些非常重要的事 。
it tells you that , in fact , our governments , vertically constructed , constructed on the economic model of the industrial revolution vertical hierarchy , specialization of tasks , command structures have got the wrong structures completely .	事實上 , 事實上 , 我們的政府 , 我們的政府 , 幾乎完全建構 , 建立在工業革命的經濟模式經濟模式經濟模型 , 特殊的任務是完全錯的 。
you in business know that the paradigm structure of our time , ladies and gentlemen , is the network .	在我們的時間中 , 女士們知道 , 女士、女士、女士、網絡 。
it's your capacity to network that matters , both within your governments and externally .	這是你的能力 , 與政府之間的能力 , 在你的政府和擴展 。
so here is ashdown's third law .	這是第三個法律 。
by the way , don't ask me about ashdown's first law and second law because i haven't invented those yet ; it always sounds better if there's a third law , doesn't it ?	順便一提 , 別問我 , 第二個法律和第二個法律 , 因為我沒有發明過這些 ; 它總是聽起來更好 , 如果有第三個法律 , 不是嗎 ?
ashdown's third law is that in the modern age , where everything is connected to everything , the most important thing about what you can do is what you can do with others .	第三個法則是 , 在現代時代 , 一切都連結到所有東西都連結到所有東西 , 最重要的是 , 你能做什麼 。
the most important bit about your structure whether you're a government , whether you're an army regiment , whether you're a business is your docking points , your interconnectors , your capacity to network with others .	最重要的是 , 你的結構是否是個政府 , 不論你是個軍隊 , 不論你是企業的 , 你的企業 , 你的能力 , 你的能力和其他人連結 。
you understand that in industry ; governments don't .	你了解工業 ; 政府不用 。
but now one final thing .	但現在有一個最後一件最後的事 。
if it is the case , ladies and gentlemen and it is that we are now locked together in a way that has never been quite the same before , then it's also the case that we share a destiny with each other .	如果這是這個案例 , 女士們 , 女士們 , 我們現在被鎖定在某種程度上 , 那也是我們從未曾和彼此分享的案例 。
suddenly and for the very first time , collective defense , the thing that has dominated us as the concept of securing our nations , is no longer enough .	突然間 , 對此 , 集體防防禦 , 收集我們國際安全局的概念 , 不夠夠 。
it used to be the case that if my tribe was more powerful than their tribe , i was safe ; if my country was more powerful than their country , i was safe ; my alliance , like nato , was more powerful than their alliance , i was safe .	以前 , 如果我的部落比他們的部落比他們的國家更強大 , 我安全 ; 如果我的國家更安全 , 我都安全 ; 我都安全 ; 我都安全 。
it is no longer the case .	它不再是案例 。
the advent of the interconnectedness and of the weapons of mass destruction means that , increasingly , i share a destiny with my enemy .	聯合國國際武器和武器的武器 , 很快地 , 我和敵人之間分享了一個絕妙的挫折 。
when i was a diplomat negotiating the disarmament treaties with the soviet union in geneva in the 1970s , we succeeded because we understood we shared a destiny with them .	當我在1970年代時 , 我和蘇聯的遺傳治療方式 , 在1970年代 , 我們成功地了解到 , 因為我們了解到 , 我們共享了一場辯論 。
collective security is not enough .	集體安全並不夠 。
peace has come to northern ireland because both sides realized that the zerosum game couldn't work .	平靜必須北方 , 因為兩邊都知道 , 零和遊戲無法運作 。
they shared a destiny with their enemies .	他們和他們的敵人分享一個敵人 。
one of the great barriers to peace in the middle east is that both sides , both israel and , i think , the palestinians , do not understand that they share a collective destiny .	在中東地區 , 其中一個偉大的障礙之一就是伊拉爾和平 , 我認為 , 巴勒斯坦 , 不了解他們分享一個集體慾望 。
and so suddenly , ladies and gentlemen , what has been the proposition of visionaries and poets down the ages becomes something we have to take seriously as a matter of public policy .	突然間 , 女士們 , 女士們 , 那些年來 , 年齡就變成了我們必須認真地認真地作為公共政政政策 。
i started with a poem , i'll end with one .	我從一首詩開始 , 結束了 。
the great poem of john donne's .	約翰唐尼的偉大詩歌 。
" send not for whom the bell tolls . "	「 捐贈者 」 不論是誰 。
the poem is called " no man is an island . "	詩叫做 「 沒有人是島嶼 」
and it goes: " every man's death affected me , for i am involved in mankind , send not to ask for whom the bell tolls , it tolls for thee . "	結果說: 「 每個人死亡影響我 , 對我來說 , 我參與曼克林 , 不要求誰要去上去 , 要為誰 。 」
for john donne , a recommendation of morality .	約翰•唐諾 , 反映了道德的道德 。
for us , i think , part of the equation for our survival .	對我們來說 , 我認為 , 是我們生存的一部分 。
to find the path to long life and health , dan buettner and team study the world's " blue zones , " communities whose elders live with vim and vigor to recordsetting age . at tedxtc , he shares the 9 common diet and lifestyle habits that keep them spry past age 100 .	為了尋找長壽生命和健康 , 丹佛和團隊研究世界的 「 藍zone 」 的社區 」 「 藍zone 」 的社區 , 他分享了九個共同死亡 , 他分享了9個共同飲食和生活方式 。 他分享了9個共同的飲食和生活方式 。
biology , culture , exploration , food , health , life , science	生物學、文化、探索、食物、健康、生命、健康、、科學、生命、科學、
dan buettner: how to live to be 100+	丹佛佛佛佛佛:要如何活到100+ 。
something called the danish twin study established that only about 10 percent of how long the average person lives , within certain biological limits , is dictated by our genes .	一個叫做丹佛研究建議 , 只有大約10%的人的生活 , 在某些生物限制中 , 在某些生物限制中 , 被我們的基因限制 。
the other 90 percent is dictated by our lifestyle .	其它百分之九十的壽命 。
so the premise of blue zones: if we can find the optimal lifestyle of longevity we can come up with a de facto formula for longevity .	所以藍zone的預防:如果我們可以找到最樂觀的生命方式 , 我們可以找到最樂觀的生命方式 。
but if you ask the average american what the optimal formula of longevity is , they probably couldn't tell you .	但如果你問一個平均美國最樂觀的平均壽命是 , 他們可能無法告訴你 。
they've probably heard of the south beach diet , or the atkins diet .	他們可能聽過南極飲食 , 或是皮膚飲食 。
you have the usda food pyramid .	你有了美國食物心理治療治療 。
there is what oprah tells us .	這是oprah告訴我們 。
there is what doctor oz tells us .	有醫生告訴我們 。
the fact of the matter is there is a lot of confusion around what really helps us live longer better .	重要的是 , 有許多困惑的事實是 , 幫助我們活得更久 。
should you be running marathons or doing yoga ?	你應該要跑馬拉松馬松 , 還是yoga ?
should you eat organic meats or should you be eating tofu ?	你應該要吃有機機機 , 或者你應該吃東西嗎 ?
when it comes to supplements , should you be taking them ?	當它到供應時 , 你應該要把它們放到嗎 ?
how about these hormones or resveratrol ?	這些荷爾蒙或回收者呢 ?
and does purpose play into it ?	目的玩耍嗎 ?
spirituality ? and how about how we socialize ?	精神嗎 ? 而我們要如何社會化 ?
well , our approach to finding longevity was to team up with national geographic , and the national institute on aging , to find the four demographically confirmed areas that are geographically defined .	嗯 , 我們的方法找到長期的長期是要與國家地理合作 , 而國家的國家組織組織 , 找到四度的四度 。
and then bring a team of experts in there to methodically go through exactly what these people do , to distill down the crosscultural distillation .	然後帶了一群專家團隊的專家團隊 , 將這些人分散到這些人所做的事 , 把文化分割成 。
and at the end of this i'm going to tell you what that distillation is .	最後我要告訴各位 , 我要告訴各位 , 分裂是什麼樣子 。
but first i'd like to debunk some common myths when it comes to longevity .	但首先 , 我想要描述一些常見的謎題 。
and the first myth is if you try really hard you can live to be 100 .	第一個謎題是如果你真的很難活到100歲 。
the problem is , only about one out of 5 , 000 people in america live to be 100 .	問題是 , 只有大約五千人住在美國 。
your chances are very low .	你的機會非常低 。
even though it's the fastest growing demographic in america , it's hard to reach 100 .	即使它是美國最快成長的人口 , 很難達成100歲 。
the problem is that we're not programmed for longevity .	問題是 , 我們不是很長久的 。
we are programmed for something called procreative success .	我們被程式設計成了一個叫做 「 成功 」 。
i love that word .	我喜歡這個詞 。
it reminds me of my college days .	它提醒我大學的大學 。
biologists term procreative success to mean the age where you have children and then another generation , the age when your children have children .	生物學家的進步是指指指指的是你有孩子 , 然後另一代 , 當你的孩子有孩子 , 另一代 , 你的年齡 。
after that the effect of evolution completely dissipates .	在進化過程中 , 完全分散了 。
if you're a mammal , if you're a rat or an elephant , or a human , in between , it's the same story .	如果你是個哺乳動物 , 若你是一隻兔子或大象 , 或人類之間之間 , 它也是同樣的故事 。
so to make it to age 100 , you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle , you also have to have won the genetic lottery .	所以 , 為了讓它達成100歲 , 你不只需要有非常好的生命方式 。
the second myth is , there are treatments that can help slow , reverse , or even stop aging .	第二個謎題是 , 有治療方法可以緩慢、逆轉 , 甚至停止了 。
when you think of it , there is 99 things that can age us .	當你想到它時 , 有999個東西可以讓我們 。
deprive your brain of oxygen for just a few minutes , those brain cells die , they never come back .	描述你的氧氣的大腦 , 幾分鐘 , 那些腦細胞死亡 , 他們從來沒有回來 。
play tennis too hard , on your knees , ruin your cartilage , the cartilage never comes back .	玩家太困難了 , 在你的膝蓋上 , 車子從來沒有回來 。
our arteries can clog . our brains can gunk up with plaque , and we can get alzheimer's .	我們的藝術家可以哭泣 。 我們的大腦可以用塑膠 , 可以得到阿茲海默 。
there is just too many things to go wrong .	有太多東西去錯了 。
our bodies have 35 trillion cells , trillion with a " t . " we're talking national debt numbers here .	我們的身體有35兆個細胞 , 試驗一下 「 t 。 」 我們在談國際辯論數字 。
those cells turn themselves over once every eight years .	這些細胞轉換成自己每八年 。
and every time they turn themselves over there is some damage . and that damage builds up .	每當他們把自己轉移到那裡有一些損傷
and it builds up exponentially .	基本上它建造出出昂貴的 。
it's a little bit like the days when we all had beatles albums or eagles albums and we'd make a copy of that on a cassette tape , and let our friends copy that cassette tape , and pretty soon , with successive generations that tape sounds like garbage .	這有點像我們一樣都有脂肪酸或糖尿病 , 我們會製造出一堆洞穴 , 讓我們的朋友在洞穴上 , 讓我們的朋友們一起合作 , 讓我們的朋友們一起合作 , 很快地 , 很快地 , 和成功的代價 , 和成功的代價 。
well , the same things happen to our cells .	嗯 , 同樣的事情發生在我們的細胞身上 。
that's why a 65yearold person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12yearold person .	這就是為什麼有65歲的年輕人是同意的 , 比125倍 , 比十二歲的人還要快 。
so , if there is nothing you can do to slow your aging or stop your aging , what am i doing here ?	所以 , 如果沒有東西可以慢慢你的狗 , 或是停止你的狗 , 我在這裡做些什麼 ?
well , the fact of the matter is the best science tells us that the capacity of the human body , my body , your body , is about 90 years , a little bit more for women .	嗯 , 重點是 , 最好的科學告訴我們 , 你的身體 , 你的身體 , 大約90年 , 有點像女性一樣 。
but life expectancy in this country is only 78 .	但這國家的壽命只有78歲 。
so somewhere along the line , we're leaving about 12 good years on the table .	所以 , 在線上 , 我們在留下大約12年 , 在桌子上 。
these are years that we could get .	這些年來我們可以得到的 。
and research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease , heart disease , cancer and diabetes .	研究顯示 , 牠們會長大的免費疾病、心臟疾病、糖尿病、糖尿病、糖尿病、糖尿病 。
we think the best way to get these missing years is to look at the cultures around the world that are actually experiencing them , areas where people are living to age 100 at rates up to 10 times greater than we are , areas where the life expectancy is an extra dozen years , the rate of middle age mortality is a fraction of what it is in this country .	我們認為最好的方法是讓這些錯誤看世界各地的文化 , 實際上人們生活在擴大到10倍 , 人們生活在哪裡 , 比我們所期待的百倍 , 比我們所期待的壽命是一百倍 。
we found our first blue zone about 125 miles off the coast of italy , on the island of sardinia .	我們發現我們的第一個藍色zone大約125英哩的海岸區域 。
and not the entire island , the island is about 1 . 4 million people , but only up in the highlands , an area called the nuoro province .	而不是整個島嶼 , 島嶼大約有1.4百萬人 , 但只有在高島 , 一個叫做 「 木星 」 。
and here we have this area where men live the longest , about 10 times more centenarians than we have here in america .	這裡 , 我們有一個男人住在最長的地方 , 大約有10倍的百分之十倍 。
and this is a place where people not only reach age 100 , they do so with extraordinary vigor .	這是一個地方 , 人們不只是達到100歲的村莊 , 他們和不凡的村莊 。
places where 102 year olds still ride their bike to work , chop wood , and can beat a guy 60 years younger than them .	在那裡 , 十二歲仍然把他們的腳踏上工作、chopwod , 可以成為一個人六十歲 。
their history actually goes back to about the time of christ .	他們的歷史真的回到聖誕時代 。
it's actually a bronze age culture that's been isolated .	實際上是一台布朗克斯的文化 , 是被孤立的 。
because the land is so infertile , they largely are shepherds , which occasions regular , lowintensity physical activity .	因為土地是如此難以置信 , 他們大部份是牧師、低溫、低度的身體活動 。
their diet is mostly plantbased , accentuated with foods that they can carry into the fields .	他們的飲食通常是植物 , 精確的食物 , 可以把它們帶到田園裡 。
they came up with an unleavened whole wheat bread called carta musica made out of durum wheat , a type of cheese made from grassfed animals so the cheese is high in omega3 fatty acids instead of omega6 fatty acids from cornfed animals , and a type of wine that has three times the level of polyphenols than any known wine in the world .	他們從一個未被釋放出來 , 叫做 「 卡塔音樂 」 的曲子 , 一類廚房製作出來的廚房 , 一類廚房製造出來的高度 , 而不是來自珊瑚礁的動物 , 而是從珊瑚礁中得到三倍的風格 , 而不是一個從珊瑚礁中得到的冬季 。
but the real secret i think lies more in the way that they organize their society .	但真正秘密我認為謊言的方式是他們社會的 。
and one of the most salient elements of the sardinian society is how they treat older people .	而其中一個最恐怖的元素之一就是他們對待較老的人來說 , 他們是如何治療更老的人 。
you ever notice here in america , social equity seems to peak at about age 24 ?	你曾經注意到美國 , 社交平等似乎是高峰24歲 ?
just look at the advertisements .	看看廣告的版本 。
here in sardinia , the older you get the more equity you have , the more wisdom you're celebrated for .	在ardinia , 越長你有越平等 , 你就越有智慧 , 你就越慶祝 。
you go into the bars in sardinia , instead of seeing the sports illustrated swimsuit calendar , you see the centenarian of the month calendar .	你走進芝加哥的酒店裡 , 而不是看到運動冰山山山 , 而是月球的月球 。
this , as it turns out , is not only good for your aging parents to keep them close to the family it imparts about four to six years of extra life expectancy research shows it's also good for the children of those families , who have lower rates of mortality and lower rates of disease .	結果結果發現 , 不僅對你的父母的好處 , 讓父母更接近四到六年間的家庭研究顯示 , 這也是對那些家庭的孩童期望 , 他們也有較低的死亡率和低率較低 。
that's called the grandmother effect .	這叫做祖母效應效應 。
we found our second blue zone on the other side of the planet , about 800 miles south of tokyo , on the archipelago of okinawa .	我們發現我們的第二個藍色區塊 , 大約有800英里南部的藍色區域 。
okinawa is actually 161 small islands .	okinawa是161小島嶼 。
and in the northern part of the main island , this is ground zero for world longevity .	在主要島嶼的北方地區 , 這是地球長期的零件 。
this is a place where the oldest living female population is found .	這是一個最古老的活生生生生存的地方 。
it's a place where people have the longest disabilityfree life expectancy in the world .	這是世界上最久的地區 , 人們有最久的殘疾壽命 。
they have what we want .	他們有我們想要的 。
they live a long time , and tend to die in their sleep , very quickly , and often , i can tell you , after sex .	他們長久久以來 , 死在睡眠中 , 通常 , 我可以告訴你 , 在性別上 。
they live about seven good years longer than the average american .	他們住在美國平均壽命超過七年 。
five times as many centenarians as we have in america .	我們在美國有五倍的五倍 。
one fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer , big killers here in america .	一分五分之二的蟻群率和乳癌 , 大殺害者在這裡 。
and one sixth the rate of cardiovascular disease .	其中有六分之一的汽車疾病率 。
and the fact that this culture has yielded these numbers suggests strongly they have something to teach us .	事實上 , 這個文化已經有了這些數字 , 他們必須教導我們 。
what do they do ?	他們怎麼做 ?
once again , a plantbased diet , full of vegetables with lots of color in them .	再一次 , 一個植物的飲食 , 充滿了許多顏色 。
and they eat about eight times as much tofu as americans do .	他們吃了大約八倍的美國人 。
more significant than what they eat is how they eat it .	更重要的是他們吃什麼 , 他們吃它 。
they have all kinds of little strategies to keep from overeating , which , as you know , is a big problem here in america .	他們有各種小策略 , 讓美國脫離 , 如你所知 , 這是美國最大的問題 。
a few of the strategies we observed: they eat off of smaller plates , so they tend to eat fewer calories at every sitting .	我們觀察了一些策略:他們吃掉更多的策略 , 所以他們會吃更多的計算 , 所以他們通常會吃更多的計算機 。
instead of serving family style , where you can sort of mindlessly eat as you're talking , they serve at the counter , put the food away , and then bring it to the table .	不是提供家人的壓力 , 你可以把食物當作你說話時 , 他們就在計算機上 , 把食物放到桌上 , 然後把它帶到桌子上 。
they also have a 3 , 000yearold adage , which i think is the greatest sort of diet suggestion ever invented .	他們也有一台三千歲的阿姨 , 我認為這是最偉大的飲食 。
it was invented by confucius .	它是由難民發明的 。
and that diet is known as the hara , hatchi , bu diet .	這種飲食是 「 哈拉、哈頓、哈頓、虐待、虐待 。
it's simply a little saying these people say before their meal to remind them to stop eating when their stomach is [80] percent full .	這只是個小說 , 這些人說在他們的餐廳裡 , 讓他們停止吃飯時停止吃 。
it takes about a half hour for that full feeling to travel from your belly to your brain .	它需要大約一半小時的感覺 , 從你的蜜蜂到你的腦袋中 。
and by remembering to stop at 80 percent it helps keep you from doing that very thing .	記住 , 記住80% , 幫助你保持這樣做 。
but , like sardinia , okinawa has a few social constructs that we can associate with longevity .	但 , 就像ardinia , okinawa有幾個社交建設 , 我們可以與長期的社會建設 。
we know that isolation kills .	我們知道它是暴力殺死的 。
fifteen years ago , the average american had three good friends .	五十年前 , 美國平均美國有三個好朋友 。
we're down to one and half right now .	我們現在要下一半半 ,
if you were lucky enough to be born in okinawa , you were born into a system where you automatically have a half a dozen friends with whom you travel through life .	如果你很幸運 , 你就出生於加州的一個系統 , 你出生了一半的朋友 , 自動地有一半的朋友 。
they call it a moai . and if you're in a moai you're expected to share the bounty if you encounter luck , and if things go bad , child gets sick , parent dies , you always have somebody who has your back .	他們稱它為aiii , 如果你在aiiiphone上 , 如果你在帳篷裡打電話 , 孩子們就病了 , 你總是有你的回饋 , 你總是有你的回饋 。
this particular moai , these five ladies have been together for 97 years .	這五個女士 , 這五個女士已經一起合作了 。
their average age is 102 .	他們的平均是102歲 。
typically in america we've divided our adult life up into two sections .	通常在美國 , 我們已經分裂了我們的成年人 , 將我們的成年人分成兩個選項 。
there is our work life , where we're productive .	這是我們的工作 , 我們是生產力的 。
and then one day , boom , we retire .	然後有一天 , 我們退休了 。
and typically that has meant retiring to the easy chair , or going down to arizona to play golf .	一般來說 , 基本上 , 這意味著恢復簡單的椅子 , 或者下到監獄 。
in the okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement .	在加拿大的語言中 , 甚至沒有對抗抗抗拒 。
instead there is one word that imbues your entire life , and that word is " ikigai . "	相反之 , 一個詞是 「 ikigai 」 。
and , roughly translated , it means " the reason for which you wake up in the morning . "	而且 , 早上翻譯 , 意思是 「 你在早上醒來的原因 。 」
for this 102yearold karate master , his ikigai was carrying forth this martial art .	大約有102歲的karatemater , 他的ikigai正在追蹤這個火星藝術 。
for this hundredyearold fisherman it was continuing to catch fish for his family three times a week .	對這百歲的漁夫人來說 , 一直在持續捕撈魚的三倍 。
and this is a question . the national institute on aging actually gave us a questionnaire to give these centenarians .	這是個問題 。 國際組織的國家組織 , 給我們一個問題 , 給我們一個問題 。
and one of the questions , they were very culturally astute , the people who put the questionnaire .	而其中一個問題之一 , 他們非常文化上非常重要 , 他們把問題放到問題放在一起 。
one of the questions was , " what is your ikigai ? "	問題是: 「 你的ikigaiiikigai ? 」
they instantly knew why they woke up in the morning .	他們很明顯地知道為什麼他們在早上醒來 。
for this 102 year old woman , her ikigai was simply her greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	大約102歲的女人 , 她的ikigai只是她偉大的宗教 。
two girls separated in age by 101 and a half years .	兩位女孩分開在10150年半 。
and i asked her what it felt like to hold a greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	然後我問她什麼感覺是要保持一個偉大的宗教 。
and she put her head back and she said , " it feels like leaping into heaven . "	她把她的頭部放回來 , 她說: 「 它感覺就像在天堂裡一樣 。 」
i thought that was a wonderful thought .	我想那是個很棒的思想 。
my editor at geographic wanted me to find america's blue zone .	我的編輯者希望我找到美國是藍色的 。
and for a while we looked on the prairies of minnesota , where actually there is a very high proportion of centenarians .	儘管我們看著骨頭的鏡頭 , 實際上有非常高的進展 , 事實上有非常高的進展 。
but that's because all the young people left .	但這是因為所有年輕人離開了 。
so , we turned to the data again .	所以 , 我們再次轉到資料 。
and we found america's longestlived population among the seventhday adventists concentrated in and around loma linda , california .	我們發現美國有最久的人口 , 大約七天 , 倫馬利亞、加州、加州、加州、加州 。
adventists are conservative methodists .	傳統主義者是保守主義者 。
they celebrate their sabbath from sunset on friday till sunset on saturday .	他們慶祝他們的日常生活在星期六的日日子中 , 慶祝日日日常的日子 。
a " 24hour sanctuary in time , " they call it .	一旦24小時的聖誕節 , 他們稱它為它 。 」 他們稱它為 「 24小時的聖誕節 。
and they follow five little habits that conveys to them extraordinary longevity , comparatively speaking .	牠們遵循五個小棲息地 , 牠們遵循五個小棲息地說話 。
in america here , life expectancy for the average woman is 80 .	在美國 , 壽命女人預期的壽命是80歲 。
but for an adventist woman , their life expectancy is 89 .	但對一位一位一位女士 , 他們的壽命是89年 。
and the difference is even more pronounced among men , who are expected to live about 11 years longer than their american counterparts .	差別的差異比比他們的美國人多 , 他們預期壽命超過11年來 , 比他們的美國人數還要久 。
now , this is a study that followed about 70 , 000 people for 30 years .	現在 , 這是一項研究 , 遵循了大約七萬人 。
sterling study . and i think it supremely illustrates the premise of this blue zone project .	史蒂夫研究了 , 我認為它對藍色zone計畫的總統計畫 。
this is a heterogeneous community .	這是一名英雄的社區 。
it's white , black , hispanic , asian .	這是白人、黑人、他的panic ,
the only thing that they have in common are a set of very small lifestyle habits that they follow ritualistically for most of their lives .	他們唯一共同的共同點就是他們遵循非常小的習慣 , 他們遵循他們的生活方式 。
they take their diet directly from the bible .	他們把他們的飲食直接從bt看得到 。
genesis: chapter one , verse [29] , where god talks about legumes and seeds , and on one more stanza about green plants , ostensibly missing is meat .	基因is:查爾斯.1、29年 , 上帝談論法律 , 上帝還有更多關於綠色植物、10個關於綠色植物、十二氧化植物 ,
they take this sanctuary in time very serious .	他們在時間非常嚴肅 。
for 24 hours every week , no matter how busy they are , how stressed out they are at work , where the kids need to be driven , they stop everything and they focus on their god , their social network , and then , hardwired right in the religion , are nature walks .	每週每週四小時 , 不管他們在工作時 , 不管他們在工作 , 孩子們得要開車 , 他們停止所有東西都在他們的社交網路上 , 接著 , 難以置信 , 自然的走路 。
and the power of this is not that it's done occasionally , the power is it's done every week for a lifetime .	而這不是這樣做 , 權力的力量是每週的每週 , 權力是完成的 。
none of it's hard . none of it costs money .	沒有它花費錢 。 沒有它成本 。
adventists also tend to hang out with other adventists .	演員也傾向於其他演說者 。
so , if you go to an adventist's party you don't see people swilling jim beam or rolling a joint .	所以 , 如果你去參加一位舞者的夥伴 , 你看不到人們在游泳或搖滾樂樂團 。
instead they're talking about their next nature walk , exchanging recipes , and yes , they pray .	反而他們在談論他們的下一個自然走路 , 是的 , 他們祈禱 。
but they influence each other in profound and measurable ways .	但他們影響彼此的影響 , 同時也能影響彼此 。
this is a culture that has yielded ellsworth whareham .	這是一種文化 , 被忽視的文化 。
ellsworth whareham is 97 years old .	埃及鯨魚是97歲的 。
he's a multimillionaire , yet when a contractor wanted 6 , 000 dollars to build a privacy fence , he said , " for that kind of money i'll do it myself . "	他是一個多元的多樣性 , 但當一個矛盾想要6 , 000美金來建造一個隱私的法則 , 他說: 「 錢我會做這件事 。 」
so for the next three days he was out shoveling cement , and hauling poles around .	所以 , 接下來三天 , 他走出了震驚 , 把警察帶到周圍 。
and predictably , perhaps , on the fourth day he ended up in the operating room .	預測一下 , 也許 , 第四天 , 他終於在手術室裡 。
but not as the guy on the table ; the guy doing openheart surgery .	但不是當桌子上的人 , 做開放手術 。
at 97 he still does 20 openheart surgeries every month .	在97歲時 , 他仍然在做手術 。
ed rawlings , 103 years old now , an active cowboy , starts his morning with a swim .	十三歲 , 現在 , 一個活躍的牛仔 , 一開始他早上游泳 。
and on weekends he likes to put on the boards , throw up rooster tails .	週末 , 他想把板子放在板上 , 扔上 , 扔上羅斯 。
her grandson actually lives in the twin cities here .	她的祖母其實住在城鎮裡 。
she starts her day with lifting weights .	她從她開放的日子開始 ,
she rides her bicycle .	她把她帶給她魔術的魔法 。
and then she gets in her rootbeer colored 1994 cadillac seville , and tears down the san bernardino freeway , where she still volunteers for seven different organizations .	然後她在她的根部中 , 她在1994年 , 早上 , 早上到舊bernardino免費 , 她還是志願者 , 她還是志願者為七種不同的組織 。
i've been on 19 hardcore expeditions .	我在19難以置信的定義 。
i'm probably the only person you'll ever meet who rode his bicycle across the sahara desert without sunscreen .	我大概可能是你曾經見過他兄弟在撒哈拉沙漠上 , 沒有陽光 。
but i'll tell you , there is no adventure more harrowing than riding shotgun with marge deton .	但我會告訴各位 , 沒有一個冒險的冒險比賽比騎士頓的槍擊比賽 。
" a stranger is a friend i haven't met yet ! " she'd say to me .	「 陌生人是朋友 , 我還沒見過 ! 」 她說: 「 她對我說 。
so , what are the common denominators in these three cultures ?	那麼 , 第三種文化的共同決策者呢 ?
what are the things that they all do ?	他們所做的是什麼 ?
and we managed to boil it down to nine .	我們管理到九歲 。
in fact we've done two more blue zone expeditions since this and these common denominators hold true .	事實上 , 我們已經完成了兩種藍色的區域 , 這些共同決策者的確確是真的 。
and the first one , and i'm about to utter a heresy here , none of them exercise , at least the way we think of exercise .	首先 , 我要去這裡這裡 , 沒有他們更興奮 , 至少我們認為興奮的方式 , 至少我們認為興奮 。
instead , they set up their lives so that they are constantly nudged into physical activity .	相反地 , 他們設立了他們的生命活動 , 所以他們常常被判定成實體活動 。
these 100yearold okinawan women are getting up and down off the ground , they sit on the floor , 30 or 40 times a day .	這一百歲的亞歷山大婦女在地面上 , 他們坐在地面上 , 30到40倍 。
sardinians live in vertical houses , up and down the stairs .	ardinian住在垂直房子裡 , 下樓 , 下樓梯 。
every trip to the store , or to church or to a friend's house occasions a walk .	每次嘗試到店裡 , 或是教堂或朋友的房子 。
they don't have any conveniences .	他們沒有任何關心 。
there is not a button to push to do yard work or house work .	沒有一個按鈕 , 或房子工作 。
if they want to mix up a cake , they're doing it by hand .	如果他們想把一隻貓放在一起 , 他們就用手 。
that burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does .	那個燃燒的卡路里一樣 , 燃燒的卡路里 。
when they do do intentional physical activity , it's the things they enjoy . they tend to walk , the only proven way to stave off cognitive decline , and they all tend to have a garden .	當他們在創意活動時 , 這是他們享受的事物 , 他們傾向走路 , 他們傾向走路 , 唯一可以證明認知的路線 , 他們都傾向於一個花園 。
they know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook .	他們知道如何在右邊設定他們的生命 , 所以他們有正確的損失 。
each of these cultures take time to downshift .	這些文化都需要時間轉移到轉變 。
the sardinians pray . the seventhday adventists pray .	ardinianpray 。 第七天的禱告 。
the okinawans have this ancestor veneration .	okinawanwan有這種祖先 。
but when you're in a hurry or stressed out , that triggers something called the inflammatory response , which is associated with everything from alzheimer's disease to cardiovascular disease .	但當你在颶風或壓力時 , 蛋白質反應爐中 , 蛋白質反應器稱為 「 流動病 」 的所有東西都與阿茲海默疾病 。
when you slow down for 15 minutes a day you turn that inflammatory state into a more antiinflammatory state .	當你慢下降了15分鐘內 , 你會轉變成更抗體狀態狀態的狀態 。
they have vocabulary for sense of purpose , ikigai , like the okinawans .	他們有創意的意義 , 我kigai , 就像okinawan 。
you know the two most dangerous years in your life are the year you're born , because of infant mortality , and the year you retire .	你們知道兩年中最危險的幾年你出生 , 因為在嬰兒死亡率上 , 你退休了 。
these people know their sense of purpose , and they activate in their life , that's worth about seven years of extra life expectancy .	這些人知道他們的目的感受 , 他們活在他們的人生中 , 那是值得大約七年的時間 , 那是值得的期望 。
there's no longevity diet .	沒有長久的死亡率 。
instead , these people drink a little bit every day , not a hard sell to the american population .	相反地 , 這些人每天喝一點 , 不是很難賣給美國人口 。
they tend to eat a plantbased diet .	他們通常會吃植物的飲食 。
doesn't mean they don't eat meat , but lots of beans and nuts .	不表示他們不吃肉 , 但很多蜜蜂和營養 。
and they have strategies to keep from overeating , little things that nudge them away from the table at the right time .	而他們有策略 , 讓策略從桌上拿出來 , 把它們從桌子中拿出來 。
and then the foundation of all this is how they connect .	接著 , 所有這些都是他們連結的 。
they put their families first , take care of their children and their aging parents .	他們首先 , 他們把他們的家庭和他們的父母照顧父母 。
they all tend to belong to a faithbased community , which is worth between four and 14 extra years of life expectancy if you do it four times a month .	他們都傾向於一個信仰社區的信仰社群 , 這是值四倍的壽命 , 如果你有四倍的壽命 。
and the biggest thing here is they also belong to the right tribe .	這裡最棒的是 , 他們也屬於正確的部落 。
they were either born into or they proactively surrounded themselves with the right people .	他們出生於出生 , 或是他們對對對對權利感到驕傲 。
we know from the framingham studies , that if your three best friends are obese there is a 50 percent better chance that you'll be overweight .	我們從詐欺的研究中學到如果你的三個最好的朋友是肥胖的 , 你就會太棒了 。
so , if you hang out with unhealthy people , that's going to have a measurable impact over time .	所以 , 如果你和沒有財富的人 , 那將會有很大的影響力 。
instead , if your friend's idea of recreation is physical activity , bowling , or playing hockey , biking or gardening , if your friends drink a little , but not too much , and they eat right , and they're engaged , and they're trusting and trustworthy , that is going to have the biggest impact over time .	相反的是 , 如果你的朋友的想法是實體活動 , 或花蜜蜂 , 或花蜜或花園 , 如果你的朋友喝酒 , 但不太太太太太多了 , 他們會吃好 , 相信你和信任、信任、信任、信任、信任、信任和信任 。
diets don't work . no diet in the history of the world has ever worked for more than two percent of the population .	恐龍並不成功 。 世界上沒有死於2%的人口歷史歷史上超過2% 。
exercise programs usually start in january ; they're usually done by october .	很明顯的程式通常從11月月開始 , 他們通常是由十月開始完成的 。
when it comes to longevity there is no short term fix in a pill or anything else .	當它到長期的長期來看 , 沒有簡單的解決方案或其他東西 。
but when you think about it , your friends are longterm adventures , and therefore , perhaps the most significant thing you can do to add more years to your life , and life to your years . thank you very much .	但當你思考它時 , 你的朋友很長期 , 你的朋友很長 , 或許你能做更多事 , 要花更多年的時間去加上你的人生 , 非常感謝你 。
ink that conducts electricity ; a window that turns from clear to opaque at the flip of a switch ; a jelly that makes music . all this stuff exists , and catarina mota says: it's time to play with it . mota leads us on a tour of surprising and cool new materials , and suggests that the way we'll figure out what they're good for is to experiment , tinker and have fun .	在那裏 , 產生電力 ; 一個窗戶的窗戶 , 從清晰到opa的飛行器中 , 一個傑出的傢伙說:這是時候要和貓咪玩具 , 馬鈴薯會讓我們驚訝地去玩它 。
creativity , design , technology	創造力、設計、科技、科技 。
catarina mota: play with smart materials	catarinamota:用智慧材料來玩 。
i have a friend in portugal whose grandfather built a vehicle out of a bicycle and a washing machine so he could transport his family .	我有一位朋友在葡萄牙建立了一台車的朋友 , 建造了一台飛機 , 可以把他的家人運送到他的家人 。
he did it because he couldn't afford a car , but also because he knew how to build one .	他這麼做是因為他無法負擔汽車 , 但也是因為他知道如何建立一個車子 。
there was a time when we understood how things worked and how they were made , so we could build and repair them , or at the very least make informed decisions about what to buy .	當時我們了解事情如何運作運作 , 如何運作 , 我們能建立和修復它們 , 或至少至少至少做出決定 。
many of these doityourself practices were lost in the second half of the 20th century .	在20世紀內 , 許多這些優勢都失去在20世紀的一半 。
but now , the maker community and the opensource model are bringing this kind of knowledge about how things work and what they're made of back into our lives , and i believe we need to take them to the next level , to the components things are made of .	但現在 , 製造家社區和開放的知識模式 , 帶回我們的人生 , 以及他們在我們的人生中如何運作 , 我相信我們要把它們帶回下一個層 , 以後 , 我相信我們必須把它們帶到下一個層 。
for the most part , we still know what traditional materials like paper and textiles are made of and how they are produced .	最重要的一部分 , 我們仍然知道傳統材料是什麼樣子 , 文字和文文字是如何產生的 。
but now we have these amazing , futuristic composites plastics that change shape , paints that conduct electricity , pigments that change color , fabrics that light up .	但現在我們有這些驚人的複雜複雜複雜複雜複雜複雜的塑膠、顏色、顏色、顏色、顏色、顏色、顏色的顏色 。
let me show you some examples .	讓我舉個例子 。
so conductive ink allows us to paint circuits instead of using the traditional printed circuit boards or wires .	所以 , 藉由我們允許我們痛苦的圓圈 , 而不是用傳統印刷板印刷板或野生 。
in the case of this little example i'm holding , we used it to create a touch sensor that reacts to my skin by turning on this little light .	在這個小例子中 , 我們用它來製造一種感應器來觸摸我的皮膚 。
conductive ink has been used by artists , but recent developments indicate that we will soon be able to use it in laser printers and pens .	由藝術家所使用的藝術 , 但最近最近最近發展的發展 , 發現我們將會使用它 , 在雷射印機和鉛筆 。
and this is a sheet of acrylic infused with colorless lightdiffusing particles .	這是一名驚人的難民 , 無色光明的粒子 。
what this means is that , while regular acrylic only diffuses light around the edges , this one illuminates across the entire surface when i turn on the lights around it .	這個意思是 , 雖然規定的 , 雖然規則只剩下的光線 , 這張圖是 , 當我把燈光放在它周圍的光線上 。
two of the known applications for this material include interior design and multitouch systems .	對於這個材料設計和模擬系統的其中之一 , 包括國際設計和模擬系統 。
and thermochromic pigments change color at a given temperature .	而rmomochro移民的顏色改變顏色 。
so i'm going to place this on a hot plate that is set to a temperature only slightly higher than ambient and you can see what happens .	所以我要把它放在一個熱帶上一個溫度的溫度 , 只能比野生更高 , 你可以看到發生什麼事 。
so one of the principle applications for this material is , amongst other things , in baby bottles , so it indicates when the contents are cool enough to drink .	所以 , 其中一個原則應用在這個材料中 , 嬰兒還有其他東西 , 在嬰兒的瓶子中 , 發現 , 當內容很酷 。
so these are just a few of what are commonly known as smart materials .	所以這些只是少數所謂的智慧材料 。
in a few years , they will be in many of the objects and technologies we use on a daily basis .	幾年後 , 他們會在許多物體和科技技術中使用 。
we may not yet have the flying cars science fiction promised us , but we can have walls that change color depending on temperature , keyboards that roll up , and windows that become opaque at the flick of a switch .	我們還可能還沒有飛行車科學效益 , 但我們能有牆壁上的牆壁 , 改變顏色的關鍵板塊 , 滾動、窗、窗戶、窗戶、窗戶、窗戶、窗戶、窗戶、窗戶 。
so i'm a social scientist by training , so why am i here today talking about smart materials ?	所以我是訓練的社會科學家 , 為何我今天來談聰明材料呢 ?
well first of all , because i am a maker .	首先 , 因為我是個作家 。
i'm curious about how things work and how they are made , but also because i believe we should have a deeper understanding of the components that make up our world , and right now , we don't know enough about these hightech composites our future will be made of .	我很棒 , 關於事情如何運作的 , 但也是因為我相信我們應該有更深刻了解這些元件 , 現在 , 我們不知道這些高科技組成 , 現在 , 我們不知道這些高科技的構造 。
smart materials are hard to obtain in small quantities .	智慧材料很難觀察到小量子裡 。
there's barely any information available on how to use them , and very little is said about how they are produced .	基本上有任何資訊可以用來使用它們的方式 , 而非常小 , 說他們是如何產生的 。
so for now , they exist mostly in this realm of trade secrets and patents only universities and corporations have access to .	所以 , 目前 , 他們生活在這個貿易和專利只有大學和專利只能取得 。
so a little over three years ago , kirsty boyle and i started a project we called open materials .	三年前 , 肯定男孩們 , 我開始了一個計畫 , 我們稱之為開放材料 。
it's a website where we , and anyone else who wants to join us , share experiments , publish information , encourage others to contribute whenever they can , and aggregate resources such as research papers and tutorials by other makers like ourselves .	這是我們網站的網站 , 其他人想要加入我們 , 分享實驗、分享資訊、分享資訊 , 鼓勵其他人 , 鼓勵其他人 , 鼓勵其他資源 , 比如研究紙和直覺的資源 , 比如我們自己 。
we would like it to become a large , collectively generated database of doityourself information on smart materials .	我們希望它成為一個很大的集體資料庫 , 用智慧材料來源於智慧材料上 。
but why should we care how smart materials work and what they are made of ?	但我們為什麼要關心智慧材料如何運作 ?
first of all , because we can't shape what we don't understand , and what we don't understand and use ends up shaping us .	首先 , 因為我們不能形狀我們不了解 , 而我們不了解、使用終結我們 。
the objects we use , the clothes we wear , the houses we live in , all have a profound impact on our behavior , health and quality of life .	我們使用、衣服、衣服、我們住的房子裡都有很大的影響力 , 以及生活品質的品質 。
so if we are to live in a world made of smart materials , we should know and understand them .	所以如果我們要住在一個聰明的材料 , 我們應該知道 , 並且了解它們 。
secondly , and just as important , innovation has always been fueled by tinkerers .	第二 , 就像很重要 , 創新一直被燃料燃料者都被燃料燃料 。
so many times , amateurs , not experts , have been the inventors and improvers of things ranging from mountain bikes to semiconductors , personal computers , airplanes .	很多時候 , 護士 , 不是專家 , 而是發明家 , 而是來自山山脈的生物 , 個人電腦、個人電腦、飛機、個人電腦、飛機、飛機、飛機 。
the biggest challenge is that material science is complex and requires expensive equipment .	最大的挑戰是 , 材料科學是複雜且需要昂貴的設備 。
but that's not always the case .	但這並非總是如此 。
two scientists at university of illinois understood this when they published a paper on a simpler method for making conductive ink .	兩位科學家在墨西哥大學發表了這篇文章 , 當他們發表了一篇簡單的方法 , 來製造核心的文章 。
jordan bunker , who had had no experience with chemistry until then , read this paper and reproduced the experiment at his maker space using only offtheshelf substances and tools .	約翰布爾•布克斯 , 他沒有經歷過化學物質 , 閱讀這篇文章 , 寫了一篇文章和工具 。
he used a toaster oven , and he even made his own vortex mixer , based on a tutorial by another scientist/maker .	他以前曾經用到東岸 , 他甚至做了自己的志願者 , 根據另一位科學家/maker , 根據另一位科學家/maker 。
jordan then published his results online , including all the things he had tried and didn't work , so others could study and reproduce it .	約翰 , 接著發表了他的結果 , 包括他試驗 , 包括他試過 , 其他人可以研究和複製它 。
so jordan's main form of innovation was to take an experiment created in a wellequipped lab at the university and recreate it in a garage in chicago using only cheap materials and tools he made himself .	所以jrdan的主要形式是要拿一個實驗 , 在芝加哥大學 , 將它放在芝加哥大學裡 , 將它放在芝加哥使用便宜的材料和工具 。
and now that he published this work , others can pick up where he left and devise even simpler processes and improvements .	現在 , 他發表了這個作品 , 其他人可以從哪裡拿出來 , 他甚至更簡單的過程和改善 。
another example i'd like to mention her project's goal is to highlight the expressive qualities of materials while focusing on the creativity and skills of the builder .	另外一個例子 , 我想提到她的目標是要高速的材料 , 雖然專注在創意創造力和技巧的技巧 。
electronics kits are very powerful in that they teach us how things work , but the constraints inherent in their design influence the way we learn .	電子卡件非常強大 , 他們教導我們如何工作 , 但矛盾在他們設計中學習的方式 。
so hannah's approach , on the other hand , is to formulate a series of techniques for creating unusual objects that free us from predesigned constraints by teaching us about the materials themselves .	漢娜的方法 , 在另一方面 , 形成一種技術 , 形成一種獨特的物體 , 創造出獨特的物體 , 透過教導我們自己自己 。
so amongst hannah's many impressive experiments , this is one of my favorites .	所以 , 阿富汗的許多實驗 , 這是我最喜歡的實驗之一 , 這是我最喜歡的 。
[ " paper speakers " ] what we're seeing here is just a piece of paper with some copper tape on it connected to an mp3 player and a magnet .	[報紙]我們看到的是 , ]我們看到的是一張紙 , 用一些銅紙和磁鐵連結在一起 , 與磁鐵連結在一起 。
so based on the research by marcelo coelho from mit , hannah created a series of paper speakers out of a wide range of materials from simple copper tape to conductive fabric and ink .	所以根據麻省理工學院研究的研究 , 漢娜創造了一系列的文章 , 來自簡單的銅板和皮膚 。
just like jordan and so many other makers , hannah published her recipes and allows anyone to copy and reproduce them .	就像jrdan和許多其他製造者、hannah發表了她的回饋 , 讓任何人去複製它們 。
but paper electronics is one of the most promising branches of material science in that it allows us to create cheaper and flexible electronics .	但紙張是電子郵件最驕傲的材料之一之一 , 它讓我們能夠創造更便宜且可思議的電子郵件 。
so hannah's artisanal work , and the fact that she shared her findings , opens the doors to a series of new possibilities that are both aesthetically appealing and innovative .	所以漢娜的藝術作品 , 她分享她發現了她的發現 , 開放了她的發現 , 開放了一系列新的可能性 。
so the interesting thing about makers is that we create out of passion and curiosity , and we are not afraid to fail .	所以 , 製造者有趣的事是 , 我們創造了熱情和好奇心 , 我們不是害怕失敗 。
we often tackle problems from unconventional angles , and , in the process , end up discovering alternatives or even better ways to do things .	我們經常從未預防角角角角度解決方案 , 在過程中 , 最後發現替代代代方案或更好的方法 。
so the more people experiment with materials , the more researchers are willing to share their research , and manufacturers their knowledge , the better chances we have to create technologies that truly serve us all .	所以 , 越多的研究人員 , 更多研究者會分享他們的知識 , 製造者們的知識 , 更好的機會 , 我們必須創造技術 , 才能創造出科技 ,
so i feel a bit as ted nelson must have when , in the early 1970s , he wrote , " you must understand computers now . "	所以我覺得有點像是tednelon一定有時候 , 在1970年代初 , 他寫道: 「 你現在必須了解電腦 」
back then , computers were these large mainframes only scientists cared about , and no one dreamed of even having one at home .	回來 , 電腦是這些最大型的科學家 , 而沒有一個夢想 , 甚至沒有人在家裡 。
so it's a little strange that i'm standing here and saying , " you must understand smart materials now . "	所以這有點奇怪 , 我站在這裡站在這裡說: 「 你必須了解智慧材料現在的智慧材料 。 」
just keep in mind that acquiring preemptive knowledge about emerging technologies is the best way to ensure that we have a say in the making of our future .	只要記住 , 就能保持這個技術 , 才能確保我們未來有最好的方法 , 就是要確保我們未來有所說的 。
when we drive , we get into a glass bubble , lock the doors and press the accelerator , relying on our eyes to guide us even though we can only see the few cars ahead of and behind us . but what if cars could share data with each other about their position and velocity , and use predictive models to calculate the safest routes for everyone on the road ? jennifer healey imagines a world without accidents .	當我們開車時 , 我們就進入了一個玻璃泡 , 鎖定門和壓縮器 , 通常在我們的眼睛上 , 甚至在我們眼前看到一些車子 , 但如果車可以跟我們分享資料分享資料 。 但如果卡車可以跟彼此分享資料有關 , 並且預測每個人的位置 。
jennifer healey: if cars could talk , accidents might be avoidable	珍妮•亨利:如果車可以說話 , 意外可能是避免的 。
let's face it: driving is dangerous .	讓我們面臨:開車是危險的 。
it's one of the things that we don't like to think about , but the fact that religious icons and good luck charms show up on dashboards around the world betrays the fact that we know this to be true .	這是我們不喜歡思考的東西 , 但宗教的事實之一 , 但宗教的事實是 , 宗教意識意識的事實之一 , 我們知道世界各地都是真實的 。
car accidents are the leading cause of death in people ages 16 to 19 in the united states leading cause of death and 75 percent of these accidents have nothing to do with drugs or alcohol .	根據美國人死於16歲到19歲的死亡導致死亡和75%的死亡導致死亡率和75% 。
no one can say for sure , but i remember my first accident .	沒有人可以說確 , 但我記得我的第一位原則 。
i was a young driver out on the highway , and the car in front of me , i saw the brake lights go on .	我是一位年輕的駕駛者 , 在我面前 , 我看到勇敢的車子 。
i'm like , " okay , all right , this guy is slowing down , i'll slow down too . "	我說: 「 好吧 , 好吧 , 這傢伙慢下來了 , 我會慢下來 。 」
i step on the brake .	我踏上巴拉克 。
but no , this guy isn't slowing down .	但不 , 這傢伙不會慢下來 。
this guy is stopping , dead stop , dead stop on the highway .	這傢伙停下來 , 停下來 , 停下來 , 停止停下來 。
it was just going 65 to zero ?	只有65到0英雄嗎 ?
i slammed on the brakes .	我在巴拉克在巴拉克 。
i felt the abs kick in , and the car is still going , and it's not going to stop , and i know it's not going to stop , and the air bag deploys , the car is totaled , and fortunately , no one was hurt .	我感覺到bckckckckckckckck , 車子仍然不會停下來 , 我知道它不會停止 , 車子不會停下來 , 車子不會被傷害 , 而幸運的是 , 沒有人傷害 。
but i had no idea that car was stopping , and i think we can do a lot better than that .	但我不知道車子停下來 , 我認為我們可以做得更好 。
i think we can transform the driving experience by letting our cars talk to each other .	我認為我們可以改變車禍的經驗 , 讓車子和彼此溝通 。
i just want you to think a little bit about what the experience of driving is like now .	我希望你們稍稍稍微思考一下 , 開車的經驗 。
get into your car . close the door . you're in a glass bubble .	拿到你的車子裡 , 門上是玻璃泡泡 。
you can't really directly sense the world around you .	你看不到你周圍的世界 。
you're in this extended body .	你在這個獨立的身體裡 。
you're tasked with navigating it down partiallyseen roadways , in and amongst other metal giants , at superhuman speeds .	你被納入了部分 , 基本上 , 基本上 , 另一種金屬大型的路徑 , 超級human的速度 , 超級幽默 。
okay ? and all you have to guide you are your two eyes .	好嗎 ? 你要猜你是兩個眼睛 。
okay , so that's all you have , eyes that weren't really designed for this task , but then people ask you to do things like , you want to make a lane change , what's the first thing they ask you do ?	好的 , 這就是你所擁有的眼睛 , 但當人們要求你做的事 , 但當人們問你 , 你想做的事 , 你想做的事 , 你要怎麼做 ?
take your eyes off the road . that's right .	把你的眼睛放下來 , 這是對的 。
stop looking where you're going , turn , check your blind spot , and drive down the road without looking where you're going .	停下來看看你在哪裡 , 看看你在哪裡 , 把你的盲點放在哪裡 。
you and everyone else . this is the safe way to drive .	你和其他人 , 這是安全的方式來驅動 。 這是安全的方式 。
why do we do this ? because we have to , we have to make a choice , do i look here or do i look here ?	為什麼我們要這樣做呢 ? 因為我們必須做出選擇 , 我看看這裡 , 或者我看這裡 ?
and usually we do a fantastic job picking and choosing what we attend to on the road .	通常 , 我們做一個很棒的任務 , 選擇我們傾向於道路上 。
but occasionally we miss something .	但偶爾我們誤解了一些東西 。
occasionally we sense something wrong or too late .	偶爾我們覺得錯了或太遲了 。
in countless accidents , the driver says , " i didn't see it coming . "	在無數的意外 , 駕駛者說: 「 我看不出來 。 」
and i believe that . i believe that .	我相信這一點 。 我相信這一點 。
we can only watch so much .	我們只能看得太多 。
but the technology exists now that can help us improve that .	但現在的科技存在現在可以幫助我們改善這一點 。
in the future , with cars exchanging data with each other , we will be able to see not just three cars ahead and three cars behind , to the right and left , all at the same time , bird's eye view , we will actually be able to see into those cars .	在未來 , 車子裡 , 車子的資料 , 我們就能看到不只是三輛車、三輛車、三輛車、左邊 , 都在同一時 , 我們就能看見這些車子 。
we will be able to see the velocity of the car in front of us , to see how fast that guy's going or stopping .	我們將能看見在我們前面的車輛 , 看看這個傢伙會怎麼快或停下來 。
if that guy's going down to zero , i'll know .	如果那傢伙會下降 , 我會知道 。
and with computation and algorithms and predictive models , we will be able to see the future .	計算和演算法和演算法模型 , 我們就能看見未來 。
you may think that's impossible .	你可能會認為這是不可能的 。
how can you predict the future ? that's really hard .	你要如何預測未來呢 ? 那真的很難 。
actually , no . with cars , it's not impossible .	事實上 , 沒有車子 , 沒有 。
cars are threedimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity .	車子是三維度的物體 , 車子是三維空間和蔬菜 。
they travel down roads .	他們走下路路了 。
often they travel on prepublished routes .	通常他們在懷孕路上旅行 。
it's really not that hard to make reasonable predictions about where a car's going to be in the near future .	這不是很難做出理由預測的預測 , 車子將會在近未來 。
even if , when you're in your car and some motorcyclist comes bshoom ! 85 miles an hour down , lanesplitting i know you've had this experience that guy didn't " just come out of nowhere . "	即使你在車裡 , 當你在車裡 , 有些動機 , 85英哩 , 我知道你們有這個經驗 , 拉出我知道你們已經有這個經驗 , 不只發生在哪裡 。 」
that guy's been on the road probably for the last half hour .	那個傢伙已經在過去一半小時 。
right ? i mean , somebody's seen him .	對嗎 ? 我的意思是 , 有人看過他 。
ten , 20 , 30 miles back , someone's seen that guy , and as soon as one car sees that guy and puts him on the map , he's on the map position , velocity , good estimate he'll continue going 85 miles an hour .	20、20、30英哩回來 , 有人看過那個傢伙 , 他就在地圖上 , 把他放在地圖上 , 他會繼續下降85英哩 。
you'll know , because your car will know , because that other car will have whispered something in his ear , like , " by the way , five minutes , motorcyclist , watch out . "	你知道的 , 因為你的車子會知道 , 因為其他車子將會在他的耳朵裡 , 比如: 「 五分鐘、五分鐘、動機主義者 , 看看 。 」
you can make reasonable predictions about how cars behave .	你可以做出理由預測車禍的預測 。
i mean , they're newtonian objects .	我的意思是 , 他們是紐西亞人物 。
that's very nice about them .	這對他們來說很棒 。
so how do we get there ?	所以 , 我們要如何做到呢 ?
we can start with something as simple as sharing our position data between cars , just sharing gps .	我們可以從車子開始 , 車子之間分享我們的位置 , 只是分享gpps 。
if i have a gps and a camera in my car , i have a pretty precise idea of where i am and how fast i'm going .	如果我有一個gpps和a攝影機 , 我有一個非常精確的想法 , 我有多快 。
with computer vision , i can estimate where the cars around me are , sort of , and where they're going .	有電腦視覺 , 我可以估計我周圍的車輛 , 有點像這樣 , 他們會走到哪裡 。
and same with the other cars .	另一輛車和其他車輛一樣 。
they can have a precise idea of where they are , and sort of a vague idea of where the other cars are .	他們可以擁有一個精確的想法 , 有點像是其他車子的概念 。
what happens if two cars share that data , if they talk to each other ?	如果兩輛車共享資料 , 如果他們跟彼此交談 ?
i can tell you exactly what happens .	我可以告訴你發生什麼事 。
professor bob wang and his team have done computer simulations of what happens when fuzzy estimates combine , even in light traffic , when cars just share gps data , and we've moved this research out of the computer simulation and into robot test beds that have the actual sensors that are in cars now on these robots: stereo cameras , gps , and the twodimensional laser range finders that are common in backup systems .	專業炸彈和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 甚至在光線上 , 即使在光線上分享gps資料時 , 我們搬到電腦模擬電腦模擬電腦模擬電腦模擬器 , 我們已經移動了這類機器 , 來檢測器 , 結果是 , 模擬器官的 , 結果是 , 兩種常見的 。
we also attach a discrete shortrange communication radio , and the robots talk to each other .	我們也在沙灘溝通輻射溝通 , 機器人跟彼此交談 。
when these robots come at each other , they track each other's position precisely , and they can avoid each other .	當這些機器人來到彼此時 , 他們追蹤彼此追蹤彼此的位置 , 他們可以避免彼此 。
we're now adding more and more robots into the mix , and we encountered some problems .	現在我們現在加上更多的機器人進入混合中 , 我們遇到一些問題 。
one of the problems , when you get too much chatter , it's hard to process all the packets , so you have to prioritize , and that's where the predictive model helps you .	問題是 , 當你得到太多的章魚 , 很難處理所有包包裝 , 所以你必須把這些包裝起來 , 這就是預測模式幫助你 。
if your robot cars are all tracking the predicted trajectories , you don't pay as much attention to those packets .	如果你的機器人都在追蹤軌道上追蹤軌道 , 你不會注意到這些頁面 。
you prioritize the one guy who seems to be going a little off course .	你把其中一個人放下來 , 似乎有點不錯 。
that guy could be a problem .	這傢伙可能是個問題 。
and you can predict the new trajectory .	你可以預測新的軌道 。
so you don't only know that he's going off course , you know how .	所以 , 你不只知道他會走下去 。
and you know which drivers you need to alert to get out of the way .	你知道駕駛者需要改善你得更好 。
and we wanted to do how can we best alert everyone ?	我們想要怎麼做才能更好的替代人呢 ?
how can these cars whisper , " you need to get out of the way ? "	這些車子是怎麼辦 ? " 你需要從哪裡來 ? "
well , it depends on two things: one , the ability of the car , and second the ability of the driver .	嗯 , 它依賴兩件事:第一 , 汽車的能力 , 第二 , 驅動駕駛者的能力 。
if one guy has a really great car , but they're on their phone or , you know , doing something , they're not probably in the best position to react in an emergency .	如果一個人有很棒的車子 , 但他們在手機上做些事 , 他們不可能在最好的位置 。
so we started a separate line of research doing driver state modeling .	所以我們開始了一項研究司機模型 。
and now , using a series of three cameras , we can detect if a driver is looking forward , looking away , looking down , on the phone , or having a cup of coffee .	現在 , 使用一系列三張攝影師 , 我們可以偵測到手機 , 看看 , 看看 , 在手機上 , 或有一杯咖啡 。
we can predict the accident and we can predict who , which cars , are in the best position to move out of the way to calculate the safest route for everyone .	我們可以預測誰 , 我們可以預測誰 , 汽車是最好的位置 , 它是最好的位置 , 來計算每個人 。
fundamentally , these technologies exist today .	基本上 , 這些技術存在現今的科技存在 。
i think the biggest problem that we face is our own willingness to share our data .	我認為我們面臨最大的問題是 , 我們自己的資料 。
i think it's a very disconcerting notion , this idea that our cars will be watching us , talking about us to other cars , that we'll be going down the road in a sea of gossip .	我認為這是個非常不可思議的概念 , 我們的車子將會看著我們 , 談論我們 , 談論我們 , 談我們 , 談談我們 , 談談談我們 ,
but i believe it can be done in a way that protects our privacy , just like right now , when i look at your car from the outside , i don't really know about you .	但我相信 , 可以保護我們的隱私 , 就像現在一樣 , 當我從外面看你的車子從外面看來 , 我不知道你 。
if i look at your license plate number , i don't really know who you are .	如果我看看你的謊言數字 , 我不知道你是誰 。
i believe our cars can talk about us behind our backs .	我相信我們的車子可以談論我們背後的車子 。
and i think it's going to be a great thing .	我認為它將會是個很棒的事 。
i want you to consider for a moment if you really don't want the distracted teenager behind you to know that you're braking , that you're coming to a dead stop .	我想請各位考慮一下如果你真的不想把青少年隔離的青少年 , 你要知道你在勇敢的停下來 。
by sharing our data willingly , we can do what's best for everyone .	透過分享我們的資料將會做些什麼 , 我們可以做得最好 。
so let your car gossip about you .	所以 , 讓你的車子 。
it's going to make the roads a lot safer .	要讓道路變得更安全 。
x prize founder peter diamandis talks about how he helped stephen hawking fulfill his dream of going to space by flying together into the upper atmosphere and experiencing weightlessness at zero g .	x獎勵基金會談到他如何協助步驟 , 他的夢想 , 透過飛行的大氣填補他的夢想 , 並擴展到大大大氣中 。
business , flight , science , short talk , space , technology , universe	商業、科學、技術、空間、空間、空間、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、
peter diamandis on stephen hawking in zero g	彼得在0glohenhaw在0groglob.
those of you who know me know how passionate i am about opening the space frontier .	你們當中有些人知道我對開放空間的熱情 。
so when i had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity , it was incredible .	所以當我有機會給世界的專家 , 不可思議的經驗 , 那是非常不可思議 。
and i want to tell you that story .	我想告訴各位這個故事 。
i first met him through the archon x prize for genomics .	我第一次遇見他 , 透過搜尋基因組獎勵 。
it's a competition we're holding , the second x prize , for the first team to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days .	這是一個競爭的競爭 , 第二個xpr化獎勵 , 在10天內 , 第一組團隊在10天內 。
we have something called the genome 100 100 individuals we're sequencing as part of that .	我們有一個叫做基因組組組組組成100個個個體 。
craig venter chairs that event .	瘋狂的椅子椅子椅子 。
and i met professor hawking , and he said his dream was to travel into space .	我遇見了教授討厭的仇恨 , 他說他的夢想在太空中 。
and i said , " i can't take you there , but i can take you into weightlessness into zerog .	我說: 「 我不能帶你去那裡 , 但我能帶你們進零度 。
and he said , on the spot , " absolutely , yes . "	他說: 「 絕對是的 。 」
well , the only way to experience zerog on earth is actually with parabolic flight , weightless flight .	嗯 , 地球上唯一的方法是用矛盾飛行的飛行 , 除非飛行 。
you take an airplane , you fly over the top , you're weightless for 25 seconds .	你拿一台飛機 , 你飛機飛機飛機 , 直到25秒鐘 。
come back down , you weigh twice as much .	回到下面 , 你的鄰居多了 。
you do it again and again .	你再再次做一次 。
you can get eight , 10 minutes of weightlessness how nasa's trained their astronauts for so long .	你可以得到8、10分鐘 , 除非太空總署訓練他們的太空人如何訓練他們的太空人 。
we set out to do this .	我們開始做這件事 。
it took us 11 years to become operational .	我們花了11年的時間 , 變成選項 。
and we announced that we were going to fly stephen hawking .	我們宣佈我們將要飛機飛行 。
we had one government agency and one company aircraft operator say , you're crazy , don't do that , you're going kill the guy .	我們有一個政府政策和一個公司飛機員說 , 你瘋狂 , 不要這麼做 , 你會殺死人 。
and he wanted to go .	他想要去做 。
we worked hard to get all the permissions .	我們很難取得所有承諾 。
and six months later , we sat down at kennedy space center .	六個月後 , 我們坐在肯尼太空中心 。
we had a press conference , we announced our intent to do one zerog parabola , give him 25 seconds of zerog .	我們有一個憂鬱的咖啡師 , 我們宣佈了我們的本質 , 給他25秒的零度 , 給他25秒 。
and if it went really well , we might do three parabolas .	如果它真的真的很好 , 我們可能有三種矛盾 。
well , we asked him why he wanted to go up and do this .	嗯 , 我們問他為什麼想去上去做這件事 。
and what he said , for me , was very moving .	他對我說 , 對我來說 , 對我來說 ,
he said , " life on earth is at an everincreasing risk of being wiped out by disaster . . .	他說: 「 地球上是史以來最高的風險風險風險 。 」
i think the human race doesn't have a future if it doesn't go into space .	我想 , 人類的種族沒有未來 , 如果它不會進入太空中 。
i therefore want to encourage public interest in space . "	所以我想鼓勵公共興趣 。 」
we took him out to the kennedy space center , up inside the nasa vehicle , into the back of the zerog airplane .	我們把他帶到肯亞的太空中心 , 在nasavehicle , 進入太空飛機的背後 。
we had about 20 people who made donations we raised $150 , 000 in donations for children's charities who flew with us .	我們有大約有20個人捐款的捐款 , 給孩子有150萬個捐贈者的慈善機構 。
a few tedsters here .	這裡有幾位tedter 。
we set up a whole er .	我們設立了一個整體器 。
we had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane .	我們有四個急診室醫生和兩個護士在飛機上 。
we were monitoring his po2 of his blood , his heart rate , his blood pressure .	我們正在監控他的血液 , 他的心臟率 , 他的血壓 , 他的血壓 。
we had everything all set in case of an emergency ; god knows , you don't want to hurt this worldrenowned expert .	我們有所有東西都在緊急情況下 , 上帝知道 , 你不想去傷害這個世界知名專家 。
we took off from the shuttle landing facility , where the shuttle takes off and lands .	我們從shuttle島上拿出來 , 那裡的shuttle , 在那裡 , 蝦子就會離開和土地 。
and my partner byron lichtenberg and i carefully suspended him into zerog .	而我的伴侶 , 諷刺的夥伴 , 我很自豪地建議他進入零位 。
once he was there , [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like .	一旦他在那裡 , 請他去體驗無視的是怎樣的 。
and after that first parabola , you know , the doc said everything is great . he was smiling , and we said go .	在那之前 , 第一次癱瘓後 , 你知道嗎 , 他說一切都很好笑 , 我們說: 「 太棒了 。 」
so we did a second parabola .	所以我們做了第二個矛盾 。
we actually floated an apple in homage to sir isaac newton because professor hawking holds the same chair at cambridge that isaac newton did .	我們實際上把一個蘋果放在荷蘭大學的蘋果 , 因為專業討會把同樣的椅子放在劍橋橋橋的同一個椅子 。
and we did a fourth , and a fifth and a sixth .	我們做了四分之一 , 一個第五歲 。
and a seventh and an eighth .	第七、八、八、八點 。
and this man does not look like a 65yearold wheelchairbound man .	這位男子並不像65歲的輪椅 。
he was so happy .	他很高興 。
we are living on a precious jewel , and it's during our lifetime that we're moving off this planet .	我們生活在一個很珍貴的珠寶 , 那是我們在移動這個星球中 。
please join us in this epic adventure .	請請請加入這個證據 。
medical animator david bolinsky presents 3 minutes of stunning animation that show the bustling life inside a cell .	醫學者davidnky展示了3分鐘的刺激 , 顯示在細胞內部的生命中 。
design , entertainment , film , health , medicine , science , technology , visualizations	設計、娛樂、醫療、醫療、醫學、技術、視覺化、視覺化、視覺化 。
david bolinsky animates a cell	大衛•布林肯肯肯的細胞 。
i'm a medical illustrator , and i come from a slightly different point of view .	我是一位醫師的醫師 , 我來自一個不同的觀點 。
i've been watching , since i grew up , the expressions of truth and beauty in the arts and truth and beauty in the sciences .	我一直在看 , 因為我長大 , 畢竟在藝術和美麗的表情和美麗的表情 。
and while these are both wonderful things in their own right they both have very wonderful things going for them truth and beauty as ideals that can be looked at by the sciences and by math are almost like the ideal conjoined twins that a scientist would want to date .	雖然這些都是很棒的事 , 他們兩者都有非常美妙的事情 , 對於他們來說 , 數學和美麗的理念 , 數學就像是理想的 。
these are expressions of truth as awefull things , by meaning they are things you can worship .	這些都是真理的事物 , 意思是 , 它們是你能擔心的東西 。
they are ideals that are powerful . they are irreducible .	它們是很有力的 , 它們是很有力的 。
they are unique . they are useful sometimes , often a long time after the fact .	他們很獨特 , 他們有時候很有用 , 有時候很長的時間 。
and you can actually roll some of the pictures now , because i don't want to look at me on the screen .	你現在可以在螢幕上一些照片 , 因為我不想看看螢幕上我 。
truth and beauty are things that are often opaque to people who are not in the sciences .	真相和美麗是 , 常見的 , 通常是烏托邦的人 。
they are things that describe beauty in a way that is often only accessible if you understand the language and the syntax of the person who studies the subject in which truth and beauty is expressed .	他們是描述的美麗的事物 , 通常只有你了解語言和美麗的組合 , 如果你了解語言和美麗的組合 。
if you look at the math , e=mc squared , if you look at the cosmological constant , where there's an anthropic ideal , where you see that life had to evolve from the numbers that describe the universe these are things that are really difficult to understand .	如果你仔細看數學 ,  e=mcccc , 如果你看看宇宙宇宙的宇宙 , 在那裡有一顆恐怖的想法 , 你可以看到生命必須從哪裡來演化的數字 , 你可以看到生命必須進化 。
and what i've tried to do since i had my training as a medical illustrator since i was taught animation by my father , who was a sculptor and my visual mentor i wanted to figure out a way to help people understand truth and beauty in the biological sciences by using animation , by using pictures , by telling stories so that the things that are not necessarily evident to people can be brought forth , and can be taught , and can be understood .	我從我教導過我的訓練作為醫師 , 因為我父親教導我 , 他是我父親教導我 , 他是雕塑家和美麗的男人 , 我想要找出一個方法來協助人們了解真相和美麗的生物科學 , 透過用圖像來幫助人們了解真相 , 透過照片來幫助人們了解真相 , 不必要的事物 。
students today are often immersed in an environment where what they learn is subjects that have truth and beauty embedded in them , but the way they're taught is compartmentalized and it's drawn down to the point where the truth and beauty are not always evident .	現今 , 學生常常常在環境中 , 他們學到的是真相和美麗和美麗的關係 , 但他們教導的方式是比較合理化化 , 但他們教導事實並非總是證據 。
it's almost like that old recipe for chicken soup where you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone .	這幾乎就像那隻老鼠一樣 , 所以你把雞肉拿到雞尾 , 直到火蟲只是消失了 。
we don't want to do that to our students .	我們不想做這件事 。
so we have an opportunity to really open up education .	所以我們有機會開放教育 。
and i had a telephone call from robert lue at harvard , in the molecular and cellular biology department , a couple of years ago . he asked me if my team and i would be interested and willing to really change how medical and scientific education is done at harvard .	我有一個電話來自哈佛大學的電話電話電話 , 在哈佛大學 , 幾年前 , 他問我 , 如果我的團隊 , 幾年前 , 他問我 , 如果我的團隊和我的團隊有興趣 , 我會很感興趣 , 將會改變醫學和科學教育教育教育 。
so we embarked on a project that would explore the cell that would explore the truth and beauty inherent in molecular and cellular biology so that students could understand a larger picture that they could hang all of these facts on .	所以 , 我們在一個計畫中 , 會探索真相和美麗的細胞 , 來探索真相和細胞生物學學 , 學生可以了解一大片的照片 , 學生可以在所有這些事實上 。
they could have a mental image of the cell as a large , bustling , hugely complicated city that's occupied by micromachines .	他們可以有一個心理圖像的圖像 , 非常複雜的城市 , 非常複雜的城市 , 由微海灘的微小城市 。
and these micromachines really are at the heart of life .	而這些微生物真的在生命的心臟 。
these micromachines , which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over , are selfdirected , powerful , precise , accurate devices that are made out of strings of amino acids .	這些微生物學家 , 這是世界各地生物學家的感官 , 是自主、強大、強大、強大、強大、精確、精確、精確、精確的設備 。
and these micromachines power how a cell moves .	這些微生物力量如何移動 。
they power how a cell replicates . they power our hearts .	他們權力如何複製細胞複製我們的心臟 。
they power our minds .	他們強力我們的腦袋 。
and so what we wanted to do was to figure out how we could make this story into an animation that would be the centerpiece of biovisions at harvard , which is a website that harvard has for its molecular and cellular biology students that will in addition to all the textual information , in addition to all the didactic stuff put everything together visually , so that these students would have an internalized view of what a cell really is in all of its truth and beauty , and be able to study with this view in mind , so that their imaginations would be sparked , so that their passions would be sparked and so that they would be able to go on and use these visions in their head to make new discoveries and to be able to find out , really , how life works .	所以 , 我們想要做的就是找出我們要如何讓這個故事成為一個動畫的中心點 , 將是哈佛大學的中心期刊 , 這是哈佛和細胞生物學的網站 , 讓它能夠加入所有文字 , 加上所有的文字 , 加上所有的文字 , 加上了所有東西 , 都能把這些東西放在腦袋裡 , 可以用在腦袋裡 , 才能找到真正的視覺上這些東西 , 並且在腦袋裡 。
so we set out by looking at how these molecules are put together .	所以 , 我們從觀察這些分子組成在一起 。
we worked with a theme , which is , you've got macrophages that are streaming down a capillary , and they're touching the surface of the capillary wall , and they're picking up information from cells that are on the capillary wall , and they are given this information that there's an inflammation somewhere outside , where they can't see and sense .	我們和一個味道合作 , 就是 , 你有了麥克風的表面 , 牠們會在海底的牆面上 , 牠們要觸摸到牆壁的表面 , 牠們會把這些資訊傳送到洞穴裡 , 他們給了這個資訊 。
but they get the information that causes them to stop , causes them to internalize that they need to make all of the various parts that will cause them to change their shape , and try to get out of this capillary and find out what's going on .	但他們得到的資訊 , 使他們停止 , 使他們成為國際各樣各樣的資訊 , 試圖改變他們的形狀 , 並試著從這個資本來 。
so these molecular motors we had to work with the harvard scientists and databank models of the atomically accurate molecules and figure out how they moved , and figure out what they did .	所以這些分子分子分子分子模型我們必須與哈佛科學家合作合作的模型模型模型 , 找出它們如何移動 , 找出它們移動 , 找出它們如何移動 , 找出它們如何移動 , 找出它們的運作方式 。
and figure out how to do this in a way that was truthful in that it imparted what was going on , but not so truthful that the compact crowding in a cell would prevent the vista from happening .	找出如何在細胞上做這件事 , 真的很有趣 , 但事實並非如此 , 事實上 , 細胞會預防細胞會預防病毒的細節 。
and so what i'm going to show you is a threeminute reader's digest version of the first aspect of this film that we produced . it's an ongoing project that's going to go another four or five years .	所以 , 我要給各位看的是三分鐘的讀者的閱讀者的版本 , 這是我們所製作的最佳版本 。 這是我們在演算法的計畫 。
and i want you to look at this and see the paths that the cell manufactures these little walking machines , they're called kinesins that take these huge loads that would challenge an ant in relative size .	我想請各位看看這個細胞製造的路徑 , 看到細胞製造這些小行步驟 , 他們叫做kineinininindin的路徑 , 將這些巨大的巨大 。
run the movie , please .	拜託 , 拜託 。
but these machines that power the inside of the cells are really quite amazing , and they really are the basis of all life because all of these machines interact with each other .	但這些機器內部的力量非常驚人 , 他們真的是非常驚人 , 因為所有這些機器都與彼此互動 。
they pass information to each other .	他們把資訊傳送到彼此 。
they cause different things to happen inside the cell .	他們造成不同的事情發生在細胞內發生 。
and the cell will actually manufacture the parts that it needs on the fly , from information that's brought from the nucleus by molecules that read the genes .	而細胞會製造出的部分 , 它需要在濾器上 , 從分子中得到的資訊 , 從分子開始 , 讀取基因 。
no life , from the smallest life to everybody here , would be possible without these little micromachines .	沒生命 , 從最小的生命到這裡 , 可能沒有這些微生物 。
in fact , it would really , in the absence of these machines , have made the attendance here , chris , really quite sparse .	事實上 , 它真的是 , 在這些機器的抽象中 , 克里斯 , 克里斯 , 真的很快 。
this is the fedex delivery guy of the cell .	這是fedexedexsderisss的簡訊 。
this little guy is called the kinesin , and he pulls a sack that's full of brand new manufactured proteins to wherever it's needed in the cell whether it's to a membrane , whether it's to an organelle , whether it's to build something or repair something .	這個小傢伙叫做kineinin , 他把一堆全新的製造蛋白質蛋白質蛋白質蛋白質蛋白質蛋白質 , 不管是細胞 , 不管是細胞 , 不論是要建立或重複的東西 。
and each of us has about 100 , 000 of these things running around , right now , inside each one of your 100 trillion cells .	我們每一個人都有大約有1000萬種東西跑步 , 現在 , 在你的每一百兆個細胞中 。
so no matter how lazy you feel , you're not really intrinsically doing nothing .	所以 , 不論你覺得 , 你不太重要了 。
so what i want you to do when you go home is think about this , and think about how powerful our cells are .	所以 , 我希望你們回到家時 , 想想我們的細胞是多強大 。
and think about some of the things that we're learning about cellular mechanics .	想想我們所學到的一些我們正在學習細胞的機械 。
once we figure out all that's going on and believe me , we know almost a percent of what's going on once we figure out what's going on , we're really going to be able to have a lot of control over what we do with our health , with what we do with future generations , and how long we're going to live .	一旦我們搞清楚 , 我們就會知道我發生了什麼事 , 我們就會知道 , 會發生什麼事 , 我們將會有許多控制我們和未來的世代 , 和未來的世代 , 和未來的一代 , 和我們一起做的事 。
and hopefully we'll be able to use this to discover more truth , and more beauty .	希望我們能用這個方法來發現更多真相 , 更美麗 。
but it's really quite amazing that these cells , these micromachines , are aware enough of what the cell needs that they do their bidding .	但這些細胞真的很驚人 , 這些微肌肉 , 這些微型的細胞需要足夠的能量 。
they work together . they make the cell do what it needs to do .	他們一起合作 , 他們一起做細胞做些什麼 。
and their working together helps our bodies huge entities that they will never see function properly .	他們一起合作協助我們的身體龐大的能力 , 幫助我們從未見過的功能 。
enjoy the rest of the show . thank you .	享受節目 , 謝謝大家 。 謝謝 。
becky blanton planned to live in her van for a year and see the country , but when depression set in and her freelance job ended , her camping trip turned into homelessness . in this intimate talk , she describes her experience of becoming one of america's working homeless .	貝特•布蘭頓計畫 , 一年後 , 看看國家 , 但當憂鬱設立了工作結束時 , 她的營運工作結束時 , 她的營運 , 她在這個演講中 , 她描述了她的經驗 , 她描述了一名美國人的經歷 。
adventure , happiness , life , personal growth , poverty , social change , society , storytelling	一個冒險、幸福、生活、個人成長、貧窮、社會改變、社會、貧窮、社會、故事、故事 。
becky blanton: the year i was homeless	貝爾•布蘭頓:一年我很無家 。
i'm a writer and a journalist , and i'm also an insanely curious person , so in 22 years as a journalist , i've learned how to do a lot of new things .	我是個作家和記者 , 我也是一位記者 , 在22年後 , 我也學到了很多新的事物 , 所以在22年後 , 我學到如何做很多新的事物 。
and three years ago , one of the things i learned how to do was to become invisible .	三年前 , 我學到的其中一件事情是如何變成不可思議的 。
i became one of the working homeless .	我成為工作無家的一家工作之一 。
i quit my job as a newspaper editor after my father died in february of that same year , and decided to travel .	我把工作當作報告當作報導後 , 我父親在那一年後 , 決定去旅行 。
his death hit me pretty hard .	他的死亡撞擊我很困難 。
and there were a lot of things that i wanted to feel and deal with while i was doing that .	有很多我想要感受和處理這件事 , 當我在做這件事時 , 我在做這件事 。
i've camped my whole life . and i decided that living in a van for a year to do this would be like one long camping trip .	我一生了我的整個人生 , 我決定住在一個優勢的旅程 , 去做這件事 , 一年長的試驗 。
so i packed my cat , my rottweiler and my camping gear into a 1975 chevy van , and drove off into the sunset , having fully failed to realize three critical things .	所以 , 我把我的貓放在1975年 , 我的貓和貓貓在1975年 , 把牠送進太陽下 , 把牠放進太陽中 , 牠完全無法意識到三種關鍵的事情 。
one: that society equates living in a permanent structure , even a shack , with having value as a person .	第一:那社會和平等結構 , 即使有價值觀 , 甚至有價值觀 。
two: i failed to realize how quickly the negative perceptions of other people can impact our reality , if we let it .	第二:我無法意識到 , 其他人能影響我們的現實 , 如果我們讓它影響我們的現實 , 如果我們讓它影響我們的現實 。
three: i failed to realize that homelessness is an attitude , not a lifestyle .	第三:我無法意識到 , 無家可歸是態度 , 而不是生命典型的 。
at first , living in the van was great .	首先 , 住在梵谷是很好的 。
i showered in campgrounds . i ate out regularly .	我在咖啡廳裡展示了 。 我突然發現了 。
and i had time to relax and to grieve .	我必須重新拒絕和悲慟 。
but then the anger and the depression about my father's death set in .	但之後憤怒和憂鬱症的憂鬱症 。
my freelance job ended . and i had to get a fulltime job to pay the bills .	我的自由工作結束了 , 我必須全職工作 , 要付出一份工作 , 為了付錢付錢 。
what had been a really mild spring turned into a miserably hot summer .	什麼是一英里春天的春天轉變成一個錯誤的夏天 。
and it became impossible to park anywhere without being very obvious that i had a cat and a dog with me , and it was really hot .	而且它變得無法公園 , 不太明顯 , 我有一隻貓和狗狗狗狗狗狗狗狗狗狗狗狗狗狗狗狗狗狗 。
the cat came and went through an open window in the van .	貓頭來了 , 穿過一個開放窗戶 。
the doggy went into doggy day care .	卵子走進蛋糕的一天 。
whenever i could , i used employee showers in office buildings and truck stops .	然而 , 當我可以的時候 , 我用員工們在辦公室裡 , 卡車停下來 。
or i washed up in public rest rooms .	或者我在公共餐廳裡 。
nighttime temperatures in the van rarely dropped below 80 degrees fahrenheit , making it difficult or impossible to sleep .	晚上溫度降低80度的溫度降低80度 , 讓它睡眠無法睡眠 。
food rotted in the heat .	食物在熱帶裡的熱帶 。
ice in my ice chest melted within hours , and it was pretty miserable .	在我的冰箱裡 , 我在幾小時內 , 它很糟糕 。
i couldn't afford to find an apartment , or couldn't afford an apartment that would allow me to have the rottweiler and the cat .	我無法承認一個公寓 , 還是無法負擔公寓 , 或者無法負擔的公寓 , 以及貓 。
and i refused to give them up , so i stayed in the van .	我拒絕給他們 , 所以我拒絕給予他們 。
and when the heat made me too sick to walk the 50 feet to the public restroom outside my van at night , i used a bucket and a trash bag as a toilet .	當熱熱帶讓我太生病時 , 我很幸運到公共餐廳 , 我在晚上用一桶麵包和垃圾桶裡 , 我用一桶廁所 。
when winter weather set in , the temperatures dropped below freezing . and they stayed there .	當冬天的溫度設定時 , 溫度降低了 , 他們留在那裡 。 他們留在那裡 。
and i faced a whole new set of challenges .	我面對了一個全新的挑戰 。
i parked a different place every night so i would avoid being noticed and hassled by the police .	我每天晚上和警察相同的地方 , 我會避免被警察逮捕 。
i didn't always succeed .	我不總是成功 。
but i felt out of control of my life .	但我感受到我的人生中 。
and i don't know when or how it happened , but the speed at which i went from being a talented writer and journalist to being a homeless woman , living in a van , took my breath away .	我不知道它發生了什麼事 , 但在那裏我從一名小名的作家和記者 , 成為一名無家的女子 , 帶著我的呼吸 。
i hadn't changed . my i . q . hadn't dropped .	我沒有改變了我的 , 克里斯 , 沒有改變了 。
my talent , my integrity , my values , everything about me remained the same .	我的財富 , 我的價值觀 , 我的價值觀 , 所有關於記憶的一切 。
but i had changed somehow .	但我改變了某種程度 。
i spiraled deeper and deeper into a depression .	我精神深深深深深深入的憂鬱症 。
and eventually someone referred me to a homeless health clinic .	最終 , 有人拒絕我回到一個無家的健康診所 。
and i went . i hadn't bathed in three days .	然後我去了 , 我沒有在三天內 。
i was as smelly and as depressed as anyone in line .	我身為憂鬱 , 身為任何人感到憂鬱 。
i just wasn't drunk or high .	我不只是喝醉或高度 。
and when several of the homeless men realized that , including a former university professor , they said , " you aren't homeless . why are you really here ? "	當無家的數人意識到 , 包括一個形式的大學教授 , 他們說: 「 你不能在這裡 ? 」
other homeless people didn't see me as homeless , but i did .	其他無家人看不到我 , 但我做了 。
then the professor listened to my story and he said , " you have a job . you have hope .	接著 , 專業傾聽我的故事 , 他說: 「 你有希望 。 你有希望 。 你有希望 。
the real homeless don't have hope . "	真正的家人沒有希望 。 」
a reaction to the medication the clinic gave me for my depression left me suicidal . and i remember thinking , " if i killed myself , no one would notice . "	醫學給了我憂鬱症患者的反應 , 我記得: 「 如果我殺死自己 , 我記得我 , 沒有人會注意到: 「 如果我殺了自己 , 沒有人會注意到 。 」
a friend told me , shortly after that , that she had heard that tim russert , a nationally renowned journalist , had been talking about me on national t . v .	一位朋友告訴我 , 她在那之後 , 她聽過最短的記者 , 一個全國記者 , 全國新聞記者 , 一直在談論我國家talt 。
an essay i'd written about my father , the year before he died , was in tim's new book .	我父親寫了關於我父親的寫作 , 在他死之前 , 他死了 , 當時他死了 ,
and he was doing the talk show circuit . and he was talking about my writing .	他正在做演說節目 , 他正在談論我的寫作 。
and when i realized that tim russert , former moderator of " meet the press , " was talking about my writing , while i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , i started laughing .	當我意識到 , 當我意識到 , 形成 「 會議 」 會議 」 「 會議 」 會談論我的寫作時 , 我住在一個華爾公園裡 , 我開始笑了 。
i started laughing because it got to the point where , was i a writer , or was i a homeless woman ?	我開始笑 , 因為它必須在哪裡 , 我是個作家 , 還是個無家的女人 ?
so i went in the bookstore . and i found tim's book .	所以我去了書籍 , 我發現tim的書籍 。
and i stood there . and i reread my essay .	我站在那裡站在那裡 , 我把我回來了 。
because i was a writer .	因為我是個作家 。
i was a writer .	我是個作家 。
shortly after that i moved back to tennessee .	在那之後 , 我回到強烈的後果 。
i alternated between living in a van and couch surfing with friends .	我跟朋友一起生活在一個van和咖啡館之間 。
and i started writing again .	我開始再寫一次 。
by the summer of the following year i was a working journalist .	在接下來的一年夏天夏天 , 我是一位職業家 。
i was winning awards . i was living in my own apartment .	我在自己的公寓裡 , 我住在我自己的公寓裡 。
i was no longer homeless .	我不再是無家 。
and i was no longer invisible .	我不再看不見 。
thousands of people work full and parttime jobs , and live in their cars .	數千人工作完整和一部分工作 , 住在他們的車子裡 。
but society continues to stigmatize and criminalize living in your vehicle or on the streets .	但社會持續刺激和犯罪 , 社會持續在你的車上或街上 。
so the homeless , the working homeless , primarily remain invisible .	所以 , 除非家 , 主要是無家可歸的 。
but if you ever meet one , engage them , encourage them , and offer them hope .	但如果你曾經見過一次 , 鼓勵他們 , 鼓勵他們 , 鼓勵他們希望 。
the human spirit can overcome anything if it has hope .	人類的精神可以克服任何東西 , 如果它有希望 。
and i'm not here to be the poster girl for the homeless .	我不是在這裡要成為無家的女孩 。
i'm not here to encourage you to give money to the next panhandler you meet .	我不是在這裡鼓勵你去參加下一間巴丹麥你會見面 。
but i am here to tell you that , based on my experience , people are not where they live , where they sleep , or what their life situation is at any given time .	但我要告訴各位 , 根據我的經驗 , 人們不住在哪裡 , 或他們的人生狀況 , 或他們的情況下 。
three years ago i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , and today i'm speaking at ted .	三年前 , 我住在一個很大的停車場 , 今天我正在ted演講 。
hope always , always finds a way . thank you .	希望總是找到一種方法 。 謝謝 。 謝謝 。
at tedxchange , thailand's " mr . condom , " mechai viravaidya , walks us through the country's bold plan to raise its standard of living , starting in the 1970s . first step: population control . and that means a lot of frank , funny and very effective talk about condoms .	在tedx軸上 , 泰國 " mr. " mr. " chairavaya , 走進了我們國家 , 在1970年代 , 首先:人口控制 。 首先:人口控制 。 首先:人口控制 。 首先:人口控制 。
culture , global issues , health , population , science	文化、全球議題、健康、人口、科學、科學、科學 。
mechai viravaidya: how mr . condom made thailand a better place	加拿大維拉瓦達:嗯 , 大陸製造了一個更好的地方 。
now , when i was a young man 40 years ago , the country was very , very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty .	當我十歲的時候 , 我是個年輕人40年前 , 國家非常貧窮 , 許多人住在貧窮的貧窮 。
we decided to do something about it , but we didn't begin with a welfare program or a poverty reduction program .	我們決定要做些什麼 , 但我們沒有從lface計畫或貧窮的紅色計畫或貧窮的紅色計畫 。
but we began with a familyplanning program , following a very successful maternal child health activity , sets of activities .	但我們從一個家庭保育計畫開始 , 遵循一個非常成功的數學孩子健康活動 。
so basically , no one would accept family planning if their children didn't survive .	所以基本上 , 沒有人會接受家庭計劃 , 如果他們的孩子沒有存活 。
so the first step: get to the children , get to the mothers , and then follow up with family planning .	第一個步驟:要讓孩子們 , 到母親 , 然後跟家人一起飛機 。
not just child mortality alone , you need also family planning .	不僅僅是孩子死亡率 , 你也需要家庭計劃 。
now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it .	現在讓我回到為何我們需要做這件事 。
in my country , that was the case in 1974 .	在1974年 , 那是1974年 。
seven children per family tremendous growth at 3 . 3 percent .	七個孩子每家家庭都有非常大的成長 。 3% 。
there was just no future .	沒有未來 。
we needed to reduce the population growth rate .	我們需要減少人口成長率 。
so we said , " let's do it . "	所以我們說: 「 咱們來做 。 」
the women said , " we agree . we'll use pills , but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills , " and we had very , very few doctors .	女人說: 「 我們同意 , 我們會用藥丸 , 但我們需要一個醫生來防止癲癇症狀 , 非常少數醫生 。
we didn't take no as an answer ; we took no as a question .	我們沒有辦法回答答案 , 我們拿不是個問題 , 我們拿不是個問題 。
we went to the nurses and the midwives , who were also women , and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill .	我們去找護護士和哺乳動物一樣 , 她們也是女性 , 並且在解釋如何用藥丸來解釋如何使用藥 。
that was wonderful , but it covered only 20 percent of the country .	那是很棒 , 但它將只有20%的國家 。
what do we do for the other 80 percent leave them alone and say , " well , they're not medical personnel . "	我們對其他80%的人來說 , 「 嗯 , 他們不是醫師 。 」
no , we decided to do a bit more .	不 , 我們決定要做更多 。
so we went to the ordinary people that you saw .	所以我們去到你所看到的最初人 。
actually , below that yellow sign i wish they hadn't wiped that , because there was " cocacola " there .	事實上 , 我希望他們沒有願望的信號 , 因為那裡有 「 牛仔 」 。
we were so much bigger than cocacola in those days .	我們數天比煤炭更大 。
and no difference , the people they chose were the people we chose .	不一樣 , 他們選擇是我們選擇選擇的人 。
they were wellknown in the community , they knew that customers were always right , and they were terrific , and they practiced their family planning themselves .	他們在社區裡 , 他們知道客戶總是正確 , 客戶總是對 , 而且他們很驚訝 , 他們對自己的家庭計劃 。
so they could supply pills and condoms throughout the country , in every village of the country .	所以他們可以供應靈感和國際的村落裡 , 在每個村落的村落中 。
so there we are . we went to the people who were seen as the cause of the problem to be the solution .	所以 , 我們去了 。 我們去到解決方案的人 , 成為解決方案的原因 。
wherever there were people and you can see boats with the women , selling things here's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives wherever you find people , you'll find contraceptives in thailand .	多樣的人 , 你可以看到女人和女人 , 賣掉一些東西 , 賣掉香蕉和螃蟹 , 同時也矛盾 , 你會發現人們 , 你會發現人們 , 你會找到矛盾 。
and then we decided , why not get to religion because in the philippines , the catholic church was pretty strong , and thai people were buddhist .	然後我們決定 , 為什麼不需要宗教 , 因為在慈善教堂上 , 柬埔寨教堂很強壯 , 而thai人們被虐待 。
we went to them and they said , " look , could you help us ? "	我們去他們說: 「 看 , 你能幫我們嗎 ? 」
i'm there the one in blue , not the yellow holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to sprinkle holy water on pills and condoms for the sanctity of the family .	我是藍色的 , 不是黃色的黃色 , 而是為了春天的水 , 來春天的水 。
and this picture was sent throughout the country .	這張照片是在整個國家 。
so some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves .	所以 , 在村莊裡 , 有些東西自己做同樣的事 。
and the women were saying , " no wonder we have no sideeffects .	而女人說: 「 不管我們沒有人感染 。 」
it's been blessed . "	它已經被無聊了 。 」
that was their perception .	那是他們的感知 。
and then we went to teachers .	然後我們去教師 。
you need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place .	你需要每個人都參與 , 試著提供任何人性 , 就是讓人類更好的地方 。
so we went to the teachers .	所以我們去了老師 。
over a quarter of a million were taught about family planning with a new alphabet a , b for birth , c for condom , i for iud , v for vasectomy .	超過一百萬個被教導關於家庭計劃 , 和一個新的阿伯伯特 , 為 「 天生 」 , 我為 「 吸引人 」 。
and then we had a snakes and ladders game , where you throw dice .	接著 , 我們有一個蛇和女士遊戲 , 丟棄了 。
if you land on anything profamily planning , you move ahead .	如果你把任何東西放到任何東西 , 你就會移動 。
like , " mother takes the pill every night .	像: 「 媽媽帶著鴿子 。 」
very good , mother . move ahead .	非常好的 , 媽媽搬到一個麵包 。
uncle buys a condom . very good , uncle . move ahead .	叔叔買了一場很棒的 , 沒錯 , 搬到一個車子 。
uncle gets drunk , doesn't use condom . come back , start again . "	叔叔變得乾燥 , 不用說服 , 再回來 , 再次一次 。 」
again , education , class entertainment .	再一次 , 教室娛樂 。
and the kids were doing it in school too .	孩子們也在學校裡做這件事 。
we had relay races with condoms , we had children's condomblowing championship .	我們有相反的種族隔離 , 我們有孩子的矛盾 。
and before long , the condom was know as the girl's best friend .	很久以前 , 大陸是女孩最好的朋友 。
in thailand , for poor people , diamonds don't make it so the condom is the girl's best friend .	在泰國 , 對窮人來說 , 對窮人來說 , 二氧化碳是最好的朋友 。
we introduced our first microcredit program in 1975 , and the women who organized it said , " we only want to lend to women who practice family planning .	我們在1975年 , 在1975年 , 那些組織組織組織的女性 , 他們說: 「 我們唯一想要歡迎的女性 。 」
if you're pregnant , take care of your pregnancy .	如果你懷孕 , 照顧你的懷孕 。
if you're not pregnant , you can take a loan out from us . "	如果你不懷孕 , 你可以從我們身上取出一個貸款 。 」
and that was run by them .	那是他們身上的 。
and after 35/36 years , it's still going on .	在35/36年後 , 它仍然在發生 。
it's a part of the village development bank ; it's not a real bank , but it's a fund microcredit .	這是村莊發展銀行的一部分 , 它不是真實銀行的銀行 , 而是很有趣的顯微的微信息 。
and we didn't need a big organization to run it it was run by the villagers themselves .	我們不需要一個大型組織來跑它是被視覺的 。
and you probably hardly see a thai man there , it's always women , women , women , women .	而你可能看到一個thai男人 , 女人總是女人、女人、女人、女人、女人、女人、女人、女人 。
and then we thought we'd help america , because america's been helping everyone , whether they want help or not .	然後我們以為我們幫助美國 , 因為美國人一直在協助每個人 , 無論他們想要協助或不行 。
and this is on the fourth of july .	這是7月7日的第四日 。
we decided to provide vasectomy to all men , but in particular , american men to the front of the queue , right up to the ambassador's residence during his [unclear] .	我們決定給所有男人 , 但特別是 , 尤其是 , 美國男人到阿巴巴巴馬的回應 。
and the hotel gave us the ballroom for it very appropriate room .	而荷爾給我們球員給我們球員的房間 。
and since it was near lunch time , they said , " all right , we'll give you some lunch .	因為它幾乎是午餐時間 , 他們說: 「 好 , 我們會給你們一些午餐 。
of course , it must be american cola .	當然 , 它一定是美國煤炭 。
you get two brands , coke and pepsi .	你得到兩個品牌 , 銅和pepsi 。
and then the food is either hamburger or hotdog . "	然後食物就好了 , 食物就好了 。 」
and i thought a hotdog will be more symbolic .	我覺得一個熱情會更有象徵性的象徵 。
and here is this , then , young man called willy bohm who worked for the usaid .	這是這個 , 接著 , 年輕人叫ybohmmmhmmhmmmy的年輕人 。
obviously , he's had his vasectomy because his hotdog is half eaten , and he was very happy .	顯然 , 他有他的感染 , 因為他的熱情是吃半的 , 他非常快樂 。
it made a lot of news in america , and it angered some people also .	美國有很多新的新聞 , 而且憤怒也憤怒了 。
i said , " don't worry . come over and i'll do the whole lot of you . "	我說: 「 不要擔心 。 」
in all this thing , from seven children to 1 . 5 children , population growth rate of 3 . 3 to 0 . 5 .	在這方面 , 從七個孩子到1.5個孩子 , 人口成長率3到0.5 。
you could call it the cocacola approach if you like it was exactly the same thing .	你可以稱它為 「 卡拉 」 的方法是一樣的 。
i'm not sure whether cocacola followed us , or we followed cocacola , but we're good friends .	我不確定cocala追蹤我們 , 或者我們遵循cocala , 但我們很好的朋友 。
and so that's the case of everyone joining in .	這就是每個人都在加入的情況下 。
we didn't have a strong government . we didn't have lots of doctors .	我們沒有強大的政府 , 我們沒有很多醫生 。
but it's everybody's job who can change attitude and behavior .	但這是每個人都能改變態度和行為 。
then aids came along and hit thailand , and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight aids .	接著 , 援助開始 , 嗨 , 我們必須停止做很多好事 , 要阻止許多好事 。
but unfortunately , the government was in denial , denial , denial .	但不幸的是 , 政府在丹尼 , 丹尼 , 丹尼 。
so our work wasn't affected .	所以我們的工作並不影響了 。
so i thought , " well , if you can't go to the government , go to the military . "	所以我想: 「 嗯 , 如果你不能去政府 , 去軍隊 。 」
so i went to the military and asked to borrow 300 radio stations .	所以我去了軍隊 , 要求借300個輻射站 。
they have more than the government , and they've got more guns than the government .	他們比政府還要多 , 他們有更多槍枝比政府還要多 。
so i asked them , could they help us in our fight against hiv .	所以我問他們 , 他們能幫我們抗愛滋病毒 。
and after i gave them statistics , they said , " yes . okay . you can use all the radio stations , television stations . "	在我給他們統計數據後 , 他們說: 「 是的 , 你可以用所有的輻射站、電視統計統計統計統計統計數據 」
and that's when we went onto the airwaves .	這正是當我們去到空中 。
and then we got a new prime minister soon after that .	接著 , 我們得到了一個新的犯罪者 , 很快 。
and he said , " mechai , could you come and join ? "	他說: 「 chai , 你能來到嗎 ? 」
he asked me in because he liked my wife a lot .	他問我 , 因為他喜歡我的妻子 。
so i said , " okay . "	所以我說: 「 好 。 」
he became the chairman of the national aids committee and increased the budget fiftyfold .	他成為國際援助委員會的椅子 , 增加預算 。
every ministry , even judges , had to be involved in aids education everyone and we said the public , institutions , religious institutions , schools everyone was involved .	每個礦坑甚至法官 , 甚至法官教育每個人 , 我們說公共機構、學校、宗教機構、宗教機構、學校每個人都參與 。
and here , every media person had to be trained for hiv .	這裡 , 每個媒體人必須訓練愛滋病毒 。
and we gave every station half a minute extra for advertising to earn more money .	我們給每一分鐘的策略 , 每一分鐘 , 才能賺更多錢 。
so they were happy with that .	所以他們很高興 。
and then aids education in all schools , starting from university .	接著 , 學校裡的援助教育 , 從大學開始 。
and these are high school kids teaching high school kids .	這些是高中孩子教高中學高中孩子 。
and the best teachers were the girls , not the boys , and they were terrific .	而最好的老師是女孩 , 不是男孩 , 而是他們很驚訝 。
and these girls who go around teaching about safe sex and hiv were known as mother theresa .	這些女孩在教導安全和愛滋病的女孩們都知道 , 身為母親 。
and then we went down one more step .	然後我們再下一步 。
these are primary school kids third , fourth grade going to every household in the village , every household in the whole of thailand , giving aids information and a condom to every household , given by these young kids .	這些都是主要的學校第三年級 , 第四年級 , 四年級 , 每一位家庭都被告知 , 提供援助資訊 , 提供援助資訊 , 給這些年輕孩子 。
and no parents objected , because we were trying to save lives , and this was a lifesaver .	而沒有父母客觀 , 因為我們試圖拯救生命 , 這是生命樣本 。
and we said , " everyone needs to be involved . "	我們說: 「 每個人都需要參與 」
so you have the companies also realizing that sick staff don't work , and dead customers don't buy .	所以 , 你也意識到 , 公司也意識到 , 不用買 。
so they all trained .	所以他們都訓練了 。
and then we have this captain condom , with his harvard mba , going to schools and night spots .	接著 , 我們有了這個資本 , 他的哈佛 , 上學和夜晚 , 到學校和夜晚 。
and they loved him . you need a symbol of something .	他們很喜歡他 , 你需要一個東西 。 你需要一個象徵的象徵 。
in every country , every program , you need a symbol , and this is probably the best thing he's ever done with his mba .	在每個國家 , 每一個計畫 , 你需要一個ymbolbol , 這可能是他曾經和他的mba 。
and then we gave condoms out everywhere on the streets everywhere , everywhere .	接著 , 我們把大眾放在街上 , 每個地方都在街上 , 每個地方都放棄 。
in taxis , you get condoms .	在稅中 , 你就會得到大膽 。
and also , in traffic , the policemen give you condoms our " cops and rubbers " programs .	此外 , 警察 , 警察給你建議我們的 「 警察和俄羅伯人 」 。
so , can you imagine new york policemen giving out condoms ?	所以 , 你能想像紐約警察會給紐約警察嗎 ?
of course i can . and they'd enjoy it immensely ; i see them standing around right now , everywhere .	當然 , 我可以享受它 , 他們很享受它 ; 我現在看到他們站在站在旁邊 , 每個地方都站在 。
imagine if they had condoms , giving out to all sorts of people .	想像一下 , 如果他們有爭議 , 給各種人看法 。
and then , new change , we had hair bands , clothing and the condom for your mobile phone during the rainy season .	接著 , 新改變了 , 我們有髮型、衣服、衣服、衣服、衣服、衣服 。
and these were the condoms that we introduced .	這是我們引導我們引導的結果 。
one says , " weapon of mass protection . "	有人說: " 武器 " 武器 "
we found you know somebody here was searching for the weapon of mass destruction , but we have found the weapon of mass protection: the condom .	我們發現有人在大規模毀滅性的武器 , 但我們找到了大規模保護的武器 。
and then it says here , with the american flag , " don't leave home without it . "	然後它說 , " 美國旗幟 " 不要離開家 "
but i have some to give out afterward .	但我必須再向前邁進 。
but let me warn you , these are thaisized , so be very careful .	但讓我坦白說 , 這些是非常謹慎 , 所以非常謹慎 。
and so you can see that condoms can do so many things .	各位可以看到 , 內容可以做很多事 。
look at this i gave this to al gore and to bill senior also .	看看這個 , 我給了這個目標 , 去bill銷售和bill公司 。
stop global warming ; use condoms .	停止全球暖化 ; 使用憲法 。
and then this is the picture i mentioned to you the weapon of mass protection .	這張照片是我提到的武器武器的武器 。
and let the next olympics save some lives .	接下來 , 咱們拯救一些生命 。
why just run around ?	為什麼跑到周圍 ?
and then finally , in thailand we're buddhist , we don't have a god , so instead , we say , " in rubber we trust . "	最後 , 在thailandalandhist , 我們沒有上帝 , 所以我們說: 「 橡膠我們相信 。 」
so you can see that we added everything to our endeavor to make life better for the people .	所以你可以看到 , 我們把所有東西加起來 , 為了讓人們更好 。
we had condoms in all the refrigerators in the hotels and the schools , because alcohol impairs judgment .	我們在荷爾斯和學校 , 在荷爾斯和學校 , 因為阿爾伯特和學校 , 因為阿爾伯特的判斷 。
and then what happened ?	然後發生了什麼事 ?
after all this time , everybody joined in .	畢竟 , 每個人都加入了 。
according to the u . n . , new cases of hiv declined by 90 percent , and according to the world bank , 7 . 7 million lives were saved .	根據美國銀行、紐西、紐西、紐西、新案例 , 根據愛滋病銀行、7千萬人的生活都拯救了 。
otherwise there wouldn't be many thais walking around today .	此外 , 今日不會有很多羞恥走路 。
so it just showed you , you could do something about it .	所以它只是給你看 , 你可以做些什麼事 。
90 percent of the funding came from thailand .	百分之九十的資金來自泰國 。
there was political commitment , some financial commitment , and everybody joined in the fight .	有政治委員會 , 有一些財務委員會加入戰鬥 , 每個人都加入戰鬥 。
so just don't leave it to the specialists and doctors and nurses .	所以 , 不要離開專家和醫生、醫生、醫生、醫生、護士 。
we all need to help .	我們都需要幫助 。
and then we decided to help people out of poverty , now that we got aids somewhat out of the way this time , not with government alone , but in cooperation with the business community .	接著 , 我們決定協助人們脫離貧窮 , 現在我們得到援助 , 而不是政府 , 而是與企業社區合作的合作 。
because poor people are business people who lack business skills and access to credit .	因為貧窮的人是企業技能的人 , 並取得信息 。
those are the things to be provided by the business community .	這些都是企業社區提供的 。
we're trying to turn them into barefoot entrepreneurs , little business people .	我們試著把他們轉換成細菌企業家 。
the only way out of poverty is through business enterprise .	貧窮是透過企業企業企業企業企業企業企業 。
so , that was done .	所以 , 這是完成的 。
the money goes from the company into the village via treeplanting .	從公司到村莊裡的錢從村莊到村莊 。
it's not a free gift .	這不是自由禮物 。
they plant the trees , and the money goes into their microcredit fund , which we call the village development bank .	他們把樹木 , 金錢送到他們的微帳資金 , 我們稱之為村發展銀行發展銀行 。
everybody joins in , and they feel they own the bank , because they have brought the money in .	每個人都加入 , 他們覺得他們自己的銀行 , 因為他們帶來錢 。
and before you can borrow the money , you need to be trained .	在你可以借錢之前 , 你需要訓練 。
and we believe if you want to help the poor , those who are living in poverty , access to credit must be a human right .	我們相信如果你想要協助窮人 , 那些生活在貧窮中 , 才能取得客戶權利 。
access to credit must be a human right .	取得信息必須是人類權利的 。
otherwise they'll never get out of poverty .	否則他們永遠不會從貧困的貧窮 。
and then before getting a loan , you must be trained .	然後在洛杉磯之前 , 你必須訓練 。
here's what we call a " barefoot mba , " teaching people how to do business so that , when they borrow money , they'll succeed with the business .	這是我們所謂的 「 細菌 」 , 教導人們如何做事 , 當他們借錢時 , 他們就會成功 。
these are some of the businesses: mushrooms , crabs , vegetables , trees , fruits , and this is very interesting nike ice cream and nike biscuits ; this is a village sponsored by nike .	這些是企業家:蘑菇、螃蟹、蔬菜、樹木、樹、蔬菜、果果蠅、果蠅、果蠅、果蠅 , 這是非常有趣 。
they said , " they should stop making shoes and clothes .	他們說: 「 他們應該停止鞋和衣服 。 」
make these better , because we can afford them . "	讓這些更好 , 因為我們可以負擔得起 。 」
and then we have silk , thai silk .	接著 , 我們有石油、泰國 。
now we're making scottish tartans , as you can see on the left , to sell to all people of scottish ancestors .	現在我們正在製作蘇丹的塔利亞 , 如你可以看到左邊的人 , 賣到所有蘇格蘭人的祖先 。
so anyone sitting in and watching tv , get in touch with me .	所以有人坐在電視上 , 看著電視 , 來觸摸電視 , 來觸碰我 。
and then this is our answer to starbucks in thailand " coffee and condoms . "	這是我們的答案 , 我們的答案 , 《咖啡》和貢獻 。 」
see , starbucks you awake , we keep you awake and alive .	看看 , 星巴克你醒來 , 我們保持你醒來 , 活著 。
can you imagine , at every starbucks that you can also get condoms ?	你能想像 , 在每顆星球中 , 在每顆星球上都有貢獻嗎 ?
you can order your condoms with your with your cappuccino .	你可以用你的資本和你的資本 。
and then now , finally in education , we want to change the school as being underutilized into a place where it's a lifelong learning center for everyone .	最後 , 在教育中 , 我們想要改變學校 , 讓學校成為一個生活中心的地方 。
we call this our schoolbased integrated rural development .	我們稱之為我們的學校基礎發展 。
and it's a center , a focal point for economic and social development .	這是中心 , 經濟和社會發展發展 。
redo the school , make it serve the community needs .	紅杉學校 , 讓社區服務服務更需要 。
and here is a bamboo building all of them are bamboo .	這是個細菌建造所有都是細菌的 。
this is a geodesic dome made of bamboo .	這是個地理學院的地點 。
and i'm sure buckminster fuller would be very , very proud to see a bamboo geodesic dome .	我相信巴克礦坑完全非常驕傲 , 非常驕傲地看到一個細菌的門口 。
and we use vegetables around the school ground , so they raise their own vegetables .	我們用蔬菜在學校上使用蔬菜 , 所以他們把自己的蔬菜 。
and then , finally , i firmly believe , if we want the mdgs to work the millennium development goals we need to add family planning to it .	最後 , 我很奇怪地相信 , 如果我們想在米爾尼發展目標中目標 , 我們得要加上家庭計畫 。
of course , child mortality first and then family planning everyone needs family planning service it's underutilized .	當然 , 童年早上 , 家庭計劃每個人都需要家庭規劃服務 , 都需要家庭規劃服務 。
so we have now found the weapon of mass protection .	所以我們現在發現了巨大保護區的武器 。
and we also ask the next olympics to be involved in saving lives .	我們也請問下一個奧運的生命 。
and then , finally , that is our network .	最後 , 這就是我們的網絡 。
and these are our thai tulips .	這是我們的thaitulipad 。
thank you very much indeed .	非常謝謝各位 。
your smartphone may feel like a friend but a true friend would give you a smile once in a while . at ted2013 , keller rinaudo demos romo , the smartphonepowered mini robot who can motor along with you on a walk , slide you a cup of coffee across the table , and react to you with programmable expressions .	你的智慧手機可能感覺像朋友一樣 , 但在ted2013年 , 在ted2013年 , keerrinaudodemoromo , 聰明的手機 , 智慧型手機的機器人 , 讓你在走路上 。
keller rinaudo: a mini robot powered by your phone	kellerrinaudo:一個小機器人被你的電話給你的手機 。
so just by a show of hands , how many of you all have a robot at home ?	所以 , 舉手來說 , 有多少人都在家裡 ?
not very many of you .	不太多人 。
okay . and actually of those hands , if you don't include roomba how many of you have a robot at home ?	好的 , 實際上 , 如果你不包括房間裡有多少機器人 ?
that's the problem that we're trying to solve at romotive that i and the other 20 nerds at romotive are obsessed with solving .	這就是我們正在嘗試解決的道德問題 , 我和其他20個神經神經神經神經元被觀察到的 。
so we really want to build a robot that anyone can use , whether you're eight or 80 .	所以我們真的想要建立一個機器人 , 無論你是8或80或80年代 。
and as it turns out , that's a really hard problem , because you have to build a small , portable robot that's not only really affordable , but it has to be something that people actually want to take home and have around their kids .	結果結果發現 , 這是個非常困難的問題 , 因為你必須建立一個小、可攜的機器人 , 但它必須是人們真的想要回家 , 讓他們回家 。
this robot can't be creepy or uncanny .	這機器人不能被監禁或未知的 。
he should be friendly and cute .	他應該是友善和愛 。
romo's a robot that uses a device you already know and love your iphone as his brain .	羅馬是個機器人 , 你已經知道 , 愛你的iphone , 愛你的iphone 。
and by leveraging the power of the iphone's processor , we can create a robot that is wifi enabled and computer visioncapable for 150 bucks , which is about one percent of what these kinds of robots have cost in the past .	透過iphone的過程 , 我們可以創造一個機器人的力量 , 我們可以創造出一個機器人 , 可以用過去150個卡車 , 可以在過去150個卡車 , 這是大約有1%的機器人 。
when romo wakes up , he's in creature mode .	當羅馬總統 , 他在生物床上 ,
so he's actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face .	所以他實際上使用影片攝影機來追蹤我的臉 。
if i duck down , he'll follow me .	如果我走下去 , 他會跟我說話 。
he's wary , so he'll keep his eyes on me .	他是戰爭 , 所以他會繼續看著我 。
if i come over here , he'll turn to follow me .	如果我來到這裡 , 他會跟我說話 。
if i come over here he's smart .	如果我來到這裡 , 他很聰明 。
and if i get too close to him , he gets scared just like any other creature .	如果我太靠近他 , 他就會害怕像其他生物一樣 。
so in a lot of ways , romo is like a pet that has a mind of his own .	所以 , 在很多方面 , 羅馬就像一個同儕一樣 。
thanks , little guy .	謝謝 , 小傢伙 。
and if i want to explore the world uhoh , romo's tired if i want to explore the world with romo , i can actually connect him from any other ios device .	如果我想要探索世界uhohh , 羅馬並不是我想去探索這個世界與羅馬的連結 , 我可以從任何其他我設備 。
so here's the ipad .	這是ipad 。
and romo will actually stream video to this device .	羅馬會在這個裝置影片裡 。
so i can see everything that romo sees , and i get a robot'seyeview of the world .	所以 , 我可以看到 , 羅馬的一切 , 我得到機器人的證據 。
now this is a free app on the app store , so if any of you guys had this app on your phones , we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together .	這是一台免費的自由應用程式 , 所以如果你們任何人都有這個應用程式 , 我們可以真的在你的手機上分享控制機器人和玩遊戲 。
so i'll show you really quickly , romo actually he's streaming video , so you can see me and the entire ted audience .	所以 , 我要給各位看 , 羅馬其實他正在哭泣的影片 , 所以你可以看到我和整個ted觀眾 。
if i get in front of romo here .	如果我在羅馬的前面 。
and if i want to control him , i can just drive .	如果我想要控制他 , 我就可以開車 。
so i can drive him around , and i can take pictures of you .	所以 , 我可以把他帶到你走 , 我可以拍攝你 。
i've always wanted a picture of a 1 , 500person ted audience .	我一直想要一千五百個ted觀眾 。
so i'll snap a picture .	所以我會拍攝一張照片 。
and in the same way that you scroll through content on an ipad , i can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device .	在同樣的情況下 , 你在一個ipad上 , 我可以把攝影機放在裝置上 。
so there are all of you through romo's eyes .	所以 , 你們都穿過羅馬的眼睛 。
and finally , because romo is an extension of me , i can express myself through his emotions .	最後 , 因為romo是一種我 , 我可以透過他的情緒來表達自己 。
so i can go in and i can say let's make romo excited .	所以我可以走進去 , 我可以說 , 咱們興奮 。
but the most important thing about romo is that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive .	但最重要的重點是 , 我們想要創造一些東西 , 其實是完全直覺的 。
you do not have to teach someone how to drive romo .	你不需要教導別人如何開車 。
in fact , who would like to drive a robot ?	事實上 , 誰會想駕駛機器人 ?
thank you , scott .	謝謝你 , 蘇格 。
and even cooler , you actually don't have to be in the same geographic location as the robot to control him .	更酷的是 , 你其實不需要在同一個地位置 , 作為機器人來控制他 。
so he actually streams twoway audio and video between any two smart devices .	所以他真的把兩個聰明的裝置兩個智慧裝置 。
so you can log in through the browser , and it's kind of like skype on wheels .	你可以在瀏覽器上邏輯 , 它有點像天空一樣 。
so we were talking before about telepresence , and this is a really cool example .	所以我們在電視上談話之前 , 這是非常酷的例子 。
you can imagine an eightyearold girl , for example , who has an iphone , and her mom buys her a robot .	你可以想像一個八歲的女孩 , 例如 , 她有一個iphone , 她媽買了她的機器人 。
that girl can take her iphone , put it on the robot , send an email to grandma , who lives on the other side of the country .	那個女孩可以把她的iphone放在機器人上 , 送送給祖母 , 他住在國家的另一邊 。
grandma can log into that robot and play hideandgoseek with her granddaughter for fifteen minutes every single night , when otherwise she might only be able to get to see her granddaughter once or twice a year .	祖母可以把機器人放進這個機器人和躲藏在一起 , 每天晚上五分鐘 , 她可能只能看見她的祖母 , 當其他兩次 , 當其他兩次 , 她可能只能看見她的祖母 。
so those are a couple of the really cool things that romo can do today .	所以這些都是很酷的事 , 羅馬可以做到今天的 。
but i just want to finish by talking about something that we're working on in the future .	但我只想談到我們未來正在努力的定義 。
this is actually something that one of our engineers , dom , built in a weekend .	這是我們工程師之一的工程師之一 。
it's built on top of a google open framework called blockly .	它在google開放框架上 , 叫做 「 鎖定 」 。
this allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic code and create any behavior for this robot you want .	這讓你喝酒 , 把這些東西放到你想要的程式碼 , 創造任何你想要的行為 。
you do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for romo .	你不需要知道如何編碼去創造一個行為 。
and you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser , which is what you see romo doing on the left .	你可以在瀏覽器上模擬這個行為中 , 這就是你在左邊的角色 。
and then if you have something you like , you can download it onto your robot and execute it in real life , run the program in real life .	接著 , 如果你喜歡你 , 你可以在你的機器人上載它 , 在真實生活中 , 執行它 , 在現實生活中 , 跑到真實生活中 。
and then if you have something you're proud of , you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world .	接著 , 如果你有某件事 , 你可以和世界上其他人分享它 , 你可以與世界上任何人分享一個機器人 。
so all of these wifi–enabled robots actually learn from each other .	所有這些野生機器人都從彼此學習 。
the reason we're so focused on building robots that everyone can train is that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal .	我們這麼專注在建築上 , 每個人都能訓練的機器人 , 就是我們認為最複雜的使用案例 。
they change from person to person .	他們從人到人身上改變 。
so we think that if you're going to have a robot in your home , that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination .	所以我們認為如果你要在家裡有一個機器人 , 機器人應該是你自己的想像力 , 機器人應該是你自己的想像力 。
so i wish that i could tell you what the future of personal robotics looks like .	所以我希望我能告訴各位 , 個人機器人的未來看起來是什麼樣子 。
to be honest , i have no idea .	誠實說 , 我不知道 。
but what we do know is that it isn't 10 years or 10 billion dollars or a large humanoid robot away .	但我們所知道的是 , 不是10億美元或十億美元或一大型的機器人 。
the future of personal robotics is happening today , and it's going to depend on small , agile robots like romo and the creativity of people like yourselves .	現今個人機器人的未來正在發生 , 而且它將會依賴小型的機器人 , 像你一樣 , 像你一樣的人一樣 。
so we can't wait to get you all robots , and we can't wait to see what you build .	所以 , 我們不等待你們所有機器人 , 我們不等待你建造什麼 。
author and activist isabel allende discusses women , creativity , the definition of feminism and , of course , passion in this talk .	權力和行動主義者是阿拉伯女性 , 創造力、創意、創意、創意、創意、有熱情的定義 。
entertainment , global issues , love , parenting , storytelling , women , world cultures	娛樂、全球議題、愛、父母、父母、女人、故事、世界文化、世界文化、文化、文化 。
isabel allende tells tales of passion	伊莎貝爾所有常見的熱情 。
thank you so much . it's really scary to be here among the smartest of the smart .	非常謝謝你 , 真的很害怕 , 這裡是智慧最聰明的 。
i'm here to tell you a few tales of passion .	我要告訴各位一些熱情的熱情 。
there's a jewish saying that i love .	有一個猶太人說我愛 。
what is truer than truth ? answer: the story .	事實比真相呢 ? 答案是:故事 。
i'm a storyteller . i want to convey something that is truer than truth about our common humanity .	我是個故事 , 我想要分享一些東西 , 比我們共同的人類性 。
all stories interest me , and some haunt me until i end up writing them .	所有故事都有興趣 , 直到我最後寫了這些故事 。
certain themes keep coming up: justice , loyalty , violence , death , political and social issues , freedom .	某些人繼續下去:正義、暴力、暴力、政治、政治、社會議題、自由、自由、自由、自由 。
i'm aware of the mystery around us , so i write about coincidences , premonitions , emotions , dreams , the power of nature , magic .	我在我們周圍的謎團 , 所以我寫了關於宇宙、情緒、情感、情緒、情緒、夢、夢、魔術、魔術、魔術、魔術、魔術、魔術 。
in the last 20 years i have published a few books , but i have lived in anonymity until february of 2006 , when i carried the olympic flag in the winter olympics in italy .	在過去二十年 , 我已經發表了幾本書 , 但我活在2006年間 , 直到2006年 , 當我在冬季時 , 我在義大利的衝突 。
that made me a celebrity . now people recognize me in macy's , and my grandchildren think that i'm cool .	這讓我想到一個慶祝 , 現在人們知道我很酷 。 我祖父認為我很酷 。
allow me to tell you about my four minutes of fame .	讓我告訴各位我我四分鐘的公平 。
one of the organizers of the olympic ceremony , of the opening ceremony , called me and said that i had been selected to be one of the flagbearers .	其中一個有機化的酵素之一 , 開放酵素 , 叫我 , 告訴我 , 我一直被選為旗幟之一 。
i replied that surely this was a case of mistaken identity because i'm as far as you can get from being an athlete .	我相信 , 這是個錯誤的案例 , 因為我跟你一樣遠 , 如你所能從成為青少年得到的 。
actually , i wasn't even sure that i could go around the stadium without a walker .	事實上 , 我甚至不確定我可以走到樓梯裡 , 沒有走路 。
i was told that this was no laughing matter .	我告訴這不是笑話 。
this would be the first time that only women would carry the olympic flag .	這是第一次 , 只有女性會帶著奧運旗幟 。
five women , representing five continents , and three olympic gold medal winners .	五個女性 , 代表5個婦女 , 第三個奧運的金屬贏家 。
my first question was , naturally , what was i going to wear ?	我的第一個問題是 , 天然地 , 我要穿什麼 ?
a uniform , she said , and asked for my measurements .	一個平台 , 她說 , 請求我的測量 。
i had a vision of myself in a fluffy anorak , looking like the michelin man .	我有了一扇門的觀點 , 看起來像米米米米諾曼 。
by the middle of february , i found myself in turin , where enthusiastic crowds cheered when any of the 80 olympic teams was in the street .	在烏干達的中間 , 我發現自己在沙漠中找到自己自己 , 在八十個奧運團隊中 , 當時有80個奧運團隊在街上 。
those athletes had sacrificed everything to compete in the games .	那些青少年有平靜的一切都要競爭 。
they all deserved to win , but there's the element of luck .	他們都為了贏得贏 , 但有幸運的元素 。
a speck of snow , an inch of ice , the force of the wind , can determine the result of a race or a game .	acenowowow , 一個冰川中風的力量 , 可以決定一個種族或遊戲的結果 。
however , what matters most more than training or luck is the heart .	然而 , 最重要的是訓練或幸運是心臟 。
only a fearless and determined heart will get the gold medal .	只有一種無害且決定心臟會得到黃金 。
it is all about passion .	這一切都是關於熱情的 。
the streets of turin were covered with red posters announcing the slogan of the olympics .	皮膚的街道是紅色海報的街道 , 用紅色報導 。
passion lives here . isn't it always true ?	熱情生活並不是真的嗎 ?
heart is what drives us and determines our fate .	心臟是驅動我們和決策 。
that is what i need for my characters in my books: a passionate heart .	這就是我書中需要的角色:一個熱情心 。
i need mavericks , dissidents , adventurers , outsiders and rebels , who ask questions , bend the rules and take risks .	我需要麥克、分散、外科醫生、外科醫生、外科醫生 , 問問問題 , 或冒險 。
people like all of you in this room .	大家都喜歡在這房間裡的人 。
nice people with common sense do not make interesting characters .	和常見的人 , 不讓有趣的角色變得更有趣 。
they only make good former spouses .	他們只製造更好的形式 。
in the green room of the stadium , i met the other flag bearers: three athletes , and the actresses susan sarandon and sophia loren .	在壓力中 , 我遇到其他旗幟的綠色房間裡 , 第三個運動員:第三個運動員、蘇丹和蘇丹 。
also , two women with passionate hearts: wangari maathai , the nobel prizewinner from kenya who has planted 30 million trees . and by doing so , she has changed the soil , the weather , in some places in africa , and of course the economic conditions in many villages .	同時 , 兩位女性和熱情心:哇 , 諾貝爾獎獎 , 她從肯亞的小樹木 , 她改變了土壤 , 在非洲 , 有些地方 , 她改變了土壤 , 當然 , 她改變了土壤 , 當然經濟條件 。
and somaly mam , a cambodian activist who fights passionately against child prostitution .	所以 , 馬上 , 一位柬埔寨行動主義主義者 , 他對抗孩子的熱情 。
when she was 14 years old , her grandfather sold her to a brothel .	當她14歲的時候 , 她的祖父告訴她一個兄弟 。
she told us of little girls raped by men who believe that having sex with a very young virgin will cure them from aids .	她告訴我們一些小女孩們 , 相信 , 和一個非常年輕的村子會治癒他們 。
and of brothels where children are forced to receive five , 15 clients per day , and if they rebel , they are tortured with electricity .	兄弟們每天被迫害5 , 15個客戶每天 , 15個客戶 , 如果他們拒絕 , 他們就會和電力 。
in the green room i received my uniform .	在綠色房間裡 , 我收到我的平台 。
it was not the kind of outfit that i normally wear , but it was far from the michelin man suit that i had anticipated . not bad , really .	這不是我常常穿過我穿過的 , 但這是從michenn男子認為我有預期的 。 不是真的 。
i looked like a refrigerator .	我看起來像一個退休者一樣 。
but so did most of the flagbearers , except sophia loren , the universal symbol of beauty and passion .	但很多旗幟 , 大部分的旗幟、額外、大學、大學、大學、熱情、熱情、熱情 。
sophia is over 70 and she looks great .	症狀已經超過70歲 , 她看起來很棒 。
she's sexy , slim and tall , with a deep tan .	她是性戀、貧民和尾巴 , 和一個深度的目標 。
now , how can you have a deep tan and have no wrinkles ?	現在 , 你要如何擁有深密密碼 , 沒有寫字 ?
when asked in a tv interview , " how could she look so good ? "	當邀請一個電視訪問時 , " 她怎麼看得很好嗎 ? "
she replied , " posture . my back is always straight , and i don't make old people's noises . "	她複製了: 「 海報 , 我的背後總是很明顯 , 我不讓老人沒有噪音 。 」
so , there you have some free advice from one of the most beautiful women on earth .	所以 , 有一些免費的婦女之一 , 地球上最美麗的女性之一 。
no grunting , no coughing , no wheezing , no talking to yourselves , no farting .	沒有文章 , 沒有教導 , 沒有教導 , 不論你的elve , 沒有農場 。
well , she didn't say that exactly .	嗯 , 她不說這樣 。
at some point around midnight , we were summoned to the wings of the stadium , and the loudspeakers announced the olympic flag , and the music started by the way , the same music that starts here , the aida march .	在某處時 , 我們突然突然突然間 , 音樂會的翅膀 , 洛杉磯發聲者宣佈了奧運旗 , 音樂從此開始 , 音樂開始 , 同樣的音樂從這裡開始 , 這裡開始 , 愛滋病毒開始 。
sophia loren was right in front of me she's a foot taller than i am , not counting the poofy hair .	在我面前 , 她是位在我面前 , 比我還要高 , 而不是在我的頭髮 。
she walked elegantly , like a giraffe on the african savannah , holding the flag on her shoulder . i jogged behind on my tiptoes holding the flag on my extended arm , so that my head was actually under the damn flag .	她走路很大 , 就像一個在非洲沙漠上 , 把旗子放在肩膀上 , 抓住她的肩膀上 。 我腦袋裡的旗幟上 。 我腦袋裡的旗幟上 , 所以我的頭其實在丹佛旗幟上 。
all the cameras were , of course , on sophia .	當然 , 所有的攝影機是 , 在索比亞 。
that was fortunate for me , because in most press photos i appear too , although often between sophia's legs .	對我來說 , 這對我來說很幸運 , 因為在大部分的印象中間 , 雖然在索比亞的法律 。
a place where most men would love to be .	大部分男人會喜歡的地方 。
the best four minutes of my entire life were those in the olympic stadium .	我整個人生中最好的四分鐘是那些在奧運的壓力中 。
my husband is offended when i say this although i have explained to him that what we do in private usually takes less than four minutes so he shouldn't take it personally .	我的丈夫被當我說這件事時 , 我必須向他解釋我們 , 在私人生活中 , 我們通常會花不到四分鐘的時間 。
i have all the press clippings of those four magnificent minutes , because i don't want to forget them when old age destroys my brain cells .	我有所有的憂鬱症 , 每四個偉大的壓力 , 因為我不想忘記它們 , 當我老年摧毀我的腦細胞 。
i want to carry in my heart forever the key word of the olympics passion .	我想把我的心臟帶到我的心臟中 , 不論是奇蹟的關鍵詞 。
so here's a tale of passion .	這就是熱情的熱情 。
the year is 1998 , the place is a prison camp for tutsi refugees in congo .	今年是1998年 , 地方是監獄難民營的難民營 。
by the way , 80 percent of all refugees and displaced people in the world are women and girls .	順便一提 , 世界上80%的難民和女孩 。
we can call this place in congo a death camp , because those who are not killed will die of disease or starvation .	我們可以在死亡洞穴中稱之為死亡 , 因為那些沒有殺死疾病或飢餓 。
the protagonists of this story are a young woman , rose mapendo , and her children .	這個故事是一位年輕女人 , 羅斯的地圖學家 , 她的孩子 。
she's pregnant and a widow .	她是懷孕 , 一隻翅膀 。
soldiers have forced her to watch as her husband was tortured and killed .	士兵被迫迫害她的丈夫被迫害 , 殺死了 。
somehow she manages to keep her seven children alive , and a few months later , she gives birth to premature twins .	幾個月後她可以保持她的七個孩子活下來 , 幾個月後 , 她給了了她 。
two tiny little boys .	兩個小男孩 。
she cuts the umbilical cord with a stick , and ties it with her own hair .	她把腫瘤切割剪掉 , 用她自己的頭髮 , 用她自己的頭髮 。
she names the twins after the camp's commanders to gain their favor , and feeds them with black tea because her milk cannot sustain them .	她稱之為 「 貓咪 」 之後 , 她把他們的重力帶到他們的重力 , 餵飽黑茶 , 因為她的牛奶無法保持它們 。
when the soldiers burst in her cell to rape her oldest daughter , she grabs hold of her and refuses to let go , even when they hold a gun to her head .	當士兵在她的細胞裡燒掉她最老的女兒 , 她抓住她 , 抓住她的頭 , 即使他們拿著槍枝 。
somehow , the family survives for 16 months , and then , by extraordinary luck , and the passionate heart of a young american man , sasha chanoff , who manages to put her in a u . s . rescue plane , rose mapendo and her nine children end up in phoenix , arizona , where they're now living and thriving .	某種程度 , 家庭存活了16個月 , 接著 , 藉由很不凡的幸運 , 然後 , 一位年輕人 , 迦納的熱情心 , 請她把她放在美國的地圖上 , 羅馬 , 羅馬 , 羅斯和九個孩童終結 , 現在他們活下來 。
mapendo , in swahili , means great love .	地圖 , 在波利亞 , 意味著好愛 。
the protagonists of my books are strong and passionate women like rose mapendo .	我的書籍是強壯且熱情的女性主義者 , 比如羅馬圖地圖 。
i don't make them up . there's no need for that .	我不讓他們站起來 , 不需要這樣做 。
i look around and i see them everywhere .	我看著他們周圍 , 我看到他們 。
i have worked with women and for women all my life .	我和女人一起和女人一起工作 。
i know them well .	我知道他們 。
i was born in ancient times , at the end of the world , in a patriarchal catholic and conservative family .	我出生在一個古老的時代 , 在世界末端的終點 , 保守家庭和保守家庭 。
no wonder that by age five i was a raging feminist although the term had not reached chile yet , so nobody knew what the heck was wrong with me .	不管是五歲的女性主義者 , 雖然沒有人接觸到黑猩 , 所以沒有人知道他對我來說是錯的 , 所以沒有人知道他對我來說是錯的 。
i would soon find out that there was a high price to pay for my freedom , and for questioning the patriarchy .	我很快就會發現 , 有一個高價的價格 , 為了我免費的免費 。
but i was happy to pay it , because for every blow that i received , i was able to deliver two .	但我很高興能付錢 , 因為對每當我收到兩倍 。
once , when my daughter paula was in her twenties , she said to me that feminism was dated , that i should move on .	一旦 , 當我的女兒在她二十歲時 , 她跟我說 , 女性主義被傷害了 。
we had a memorable fight . feminism is dated ?	我們有一個可怕的鬥爭 , 女性主義被摧毀嗎 ?
yes , for privileged women like my daughter and all of us here today , but not for most of our sisters in the rest of the world who are still forced into premature marriage , prostitution , forced labor they have children that they don't want or they cannot feed .	是的 , 對女兒來說 , 今天我們所有人 , 但不是我們大部分的主義者都被迫害 , 而是迫使世界上大部分仍然被迫害 , 迫使勞動力 , 他們有孩子們 , 他們有孩子們不想或他們無法餵食 。
they have no control over their bodies or their lives .	他們沒有控制自己的身體或他們的生命 。
they have no education and no freedom .	他們沒有教育和自由 。
they are raped , beaten up and sometimes killed with impunity .	他們被強暴了 , 有時候被逮捕 , 有時會殺死 。
for most western young women of today , being called a feminist is an insult .	對現今大部分的西方女性來說 , 被稱為女性主義者是靈魂的 。
feminism has never been sexy , but let me assure you that it never stopped me from flirting , and i have seldom suffered from lack of men .	女性主義從來沒有性戀 , 但讓我保證你永遠無法阻止我 , 我有嚴重的苦惱 。
feminism is not dead , by no means .	女性主義不是死 , 而是沒有意義 。
it has evolved . if you don't like the term , change it , for goddess' sake .	它已經演化了 , 如果你不喜歡詞 , 改變它 , 上帝的神秘 。
call it aphrodite , or venus , or bimbo , or whatever you want ; the name doesn't matter , as long as we understand what it is about , and we support it .	稱它為 「 英雄 」 或 「 樂觀 」 或 「 不論你想要什麼 」 的意思是 , 我們支持它 。
so here's another tale of passion , and this is a sad one .	這是另一個熱情 , 這是個熱情的一部分 。
the place is a small women's clinic in a village in bangladesh .	在孟加拉的村莊裡 , 一個小女性診所 。
the year is 2005 .	今年是2005年 。
jenny is a young american dental hygienist who has gone to the clinic as a volunteer during her threeweek vacation .	珍妮是一位年輕的美國醫師 , 她走到診所 , 在她三威脅中 , 在她三威威脅中 。
she's prepared to clean teeth , but when she gets there , she finds out that there are no doctors , no dentists , and the clinic is just a hut full of flies .	她準備好乾淨的牙齒 , 但當她到那裡 , 她發現沒有醫生 , 沒有醫生 , 沒有醫生 , 沒有醫師 , 而診所只是一堆旗幟 。
outside , there is a line of women who have waited several hours to be treated .	外面有一系列的女性 , 等待幾小時才能被治療 。
the first patient is in excruciating pain because she has several rotten molars .	第一位病人在興奮痛苦的痛苦 , 因為她有數量的浪漫 。
jenny realizes that the only solution is to pull out the bad teeth .	珍妮意識到 , 唯一解決方案的解決方案 。
she's not licensed for that ; she has never done it .	她不接受這一點 ; 她從來沒有做過 。
she risks a lot and she's terrified .	她冒險很多 , 她很害怕 。
she doesn't even have the proper instruments , but fortunately she has brought some novocaine .	她甚至甚至沒有投入的特徵 , 但幸運的是她沒有投票 。
jenny has a brave and passionate heart .	珍妮有一個勇敢和熱情心 。
she murmurs a prayer and she goes ahead with the operation .	她鼓勵一個禱告 , 她走進了一步 。
at the end , the relieved patient kisses her hands .	最後 , 改善病人的技巧 。
that day the hygienist pulls out many more teeth .	那天 , hygien學家推出更多的牙齒 。
the next morning , when she comes again to the socalled clinic , her first patient is waiting for her with her husband .	隔天早上 , 當她回來時 , 她的第一位病人正在等待她丈夫 。
the woman's face looks like a watermelon .	女人臉孔看起來像水一樣 。
it is so swollen that you can't even see the eyes .	它很甜美 , 你甚至看不到眼睛 。
the husband , furious , threatens to kill the american .	丈夫、憤怒、威脅、威脅、威脅到美國 。
jenny is horrified at what she has done , but then the translator explains that the patient's condition has nothing to do with the operation .	珍妮是她做了什麼 , 但後來翻譯者解釋病人的狀況 , 但後來翻譯者解釋病人的條件 。
the day before , her husband beat her up because she was not home in time to prepare dinner for him .	在那天之前 , 她的丈夫是她的丈夫 , 因為她沒有時間去準備晚餐 。
millions of women live like this today .	現今 , 數百萬名女性住在這樣的情況下 。
they are the poorest of the poor .	他們是窮人的最窮人 。
although women do twothirds of the world's labor , they own less than one percent of the world's assets .	雖然世界上的婦女做了兩分之一的勞工 , 他們擁有不到1%的資產 。
they are paid less than men for the same work if they're paid at all , and they remain vulnerable because they have no economic independence , and they are constantly threatened by exploitation , violence and abuse .	他們比男性的薪水較少 , 如果他們在所有工作時 , 他們仍然有脆弱 , 因為他們沒有經濟獨立的經濟獨立、暴力、暴力、暴力、暴力和虐待 。
it is a fact that giving women education , work , the ability to control their own income , inherit and own property , benefits the society .	這是女性教育教育、工作、工作、工作、工作、能力控制自己的收入 , 來控制自己的社會 。
if a woman is empowered , her children and her family will be better off .	如果一位女人被賦予 , 她的家人 , 她的家庭會更好 。
if families prosper , the village prospers , and eventually so does the whole country .	如果家庭專家 , 村莊專家 , 最終 , 整個國家都如此 。
wangari maathai goes to a village in kenya .	亞里馬馬馬馬拉走到肯亞 。
she talks with the women and explains that the land is barren because they have cut and sold the trees .	她和女人談到 , 解釋土地是障礙 , 因為他們有砍伐樹木 。
she gets the women to plant new trees and water them , drop by drop .	她把女性送到植物新樹木 , 用乾燥 。
in a matter of five or six years , they have a forest , the soil is enriched , and the village is saved .	在五到六年內 , 他們有森林 , 土壤是被逮捕 , 村落被拯救 。
the poorest and most backward societies are always those that put women down .	最糟糕的社會總是那些把女性放下來 。
yet this obvious truth is ignored by governments and also by philanthropy .	然而 , 這顯然是政府和慈善機構 。
for every dollar given to a women's program , 20 dollars are given to men's programs .	對每美元來說 , 每美元都給男性的程式 , 20元就給男性的程式 。
women are 51 percent of humankind .	女性是51%的人類皮膚 。
empowering them will change everything more than technology and design and entertainment .	賦予他們所能改變任何科技和娛樂 。
i can promise you that women working together linked , informed and educated can bring peace and prosperity to this forsaken planet .	我可以告訴各位 , 女人一起合作 , 教育教育可以帶來和平等 , 教育能帶來和平靜的行星 。
in any war today , most of the casualties are civilians , mainly women and children . they are collateral damage .	在任何戰爭中 , 大部分的營養都是民族 , 主要是女性和孩子 。 他們都是同性戀損害 。
men run the world , and look at the mess we have .	男人跑遍世界 , 看看我們有的記憶 。
what kind of world do we want ?	我們想要什麼樣子 ?
this is a fundamental question that most of us are asking .	這是個基本問題 , 我們大多數人都在問的 。
does it make sense to participate in the existing world order ?	它對存在存在的世界秩序嗎 ?
we want a world where life is preserved and the quality of life is enriched for everybody , not only for the privileged .	我們希望生活在哪裡 , 生命的品質就是為了每個人 , 不只是為了私人的私人 。
in january i saw an exhibit of fernando botero's paintings at the uc berkeley library .	在日本 , 我看到一位法國的展覽 , 在核柏克萊的圖書館裡 ,
no museum or gallery in the united states , except for the new york gallery that carries botero's work , has dared to show the paintings because the theme is the abu ghraib prison .	美國的博物館或gallerylery的概念 , 為紐約gallery的作品 , 讓大家看看畫面的畫面 , 因為這個主題是ghraibrion 。
they are huge paintings of torture and abuse of power , in the voluminous botero style .	他們很大的畫面和一個權力的畫面中 , 在演化中 , 它們很大的畫面 。
i have not been able to get those images out of my mind or my heart .	我沒有辦法把這些影像從我的心裡或我的心臟 。
what i fear most is power with impunity .	我恐懼大部分的恐懼是力量的力量 。
i fear abuse of power , and the power to abuse .	我害怕權力的虐待和虐待 。
in our species , the alpha males define reality , and force the rest of the pack to accept that reality and follow the rules .	在我們的物種中 , 雄性雄性定義現實 , 而其他規則的其他部分 , 遵循現實和遵循規則 。
the rules change all the time , but they always benefit them , and in this case , the trickledown effect , which does not work in economics , works perfectly .	規則都改變了 , 但他們總是有利益 , 在這個案例中 , 難以置信的效應 , 這不是經濟、工作、工作 。
abuse trickles down from the top of the ladder to the bottom .	從女士的頂端 , 從女士到下面 。
women and children , especially the poor , are at the bottom .	女人和孩子 , 尤其是窮人 , 尤其是在底部 。
even the most destitute of men have someone they can abuse a woman or a child .	即使大多數男人都有可以虐待一個女人或小孩 。
i'm fed up with the power that a few exert over the many through gender , income , race , and class .	我和許多經歷過性別的力量 , 在許多性別中 , 收入、種族、階級、課堂 。
i think that the time is ripe to make fundamental changes in our civilization .	我認為 , 時間是要讓基本改變我們文明的改變 。
but for real change , we need feminine energy in the management of the world .	但為了真實改變世界 , 我們需要女性的管理 。
we need a critical number of women in positions of power , and we need to nurture the feminine energy in men .	我們需要一個關鍵數字的女性 , 我們需要一個關鍵數字來源 , 我們必須確保男性 。
i'm talking about men with young minds , of course .	我在跟年輕的思想 , 當然 。
old guys are hopeless ; we have to wait for them to die off .	老人是無希望 ; 我們必須等待他們死去 。
yes , i would love to have sophia loren's long legs and legendary breasts .	是的 , 我很愛去擁有蘇珊的長腿和腳踏車 。
but given a choice , i would rather have the warrior hearts of wangari maathai , somaly mam , jenny and rose mapendo .	但給了一個選擇 , 我不想有戰爭的心臟 , 所以馬上 , 馬上、珍妮、羅斯、羅馬、羅、羅馬、羅、羅馬、羅 。
i want to make this world good .	我想讓這個世界好 。
not better , but to make it good .	不好 , 但為了讓它變得好 。
why not ? it is possible . look around in this room all this knowledge , energy , talent and technology .	為什麼不 ? 它可以在這個房間裡看 , 能源、能源、技術和科技 。
let's get off our fannies , roll up our sleeves and get to work , passionately , in creating an almost perfect world .	咱們來談我們的法國 , 把我們的祖先 , 再來工作、熱情地 , 創造了一個幾乎完美的世界 。
every day , in a city the size of london , 30 million meals are served . but where does all the food come from ? architect carolyn steel discusses the daily miracle of feeding a city , and shows how ancient food routes shaped the modern world .	每天 , 在倫敦的城市大小 , 有300萬個餐廳 , 但所有食物來自哪裡 ? 建築師們都在哪裡 ? 建築師對現代世界各地的食物 。
cities , culture , food , global issues	城市、文化、食物、食物、全球議題 。
carolyn steel: how food shapes our cities	卡羅•史蒂夫:食物塑造我們的城市如何塑造我們的城市 。
how do you feed a city ?	你要如何餵飽城市 ?
it's one of the great questions of our time .	這是我們的時間最棒的問題之一 。
yet it's one that's rarely asked .	但這是一個很罕見的 。
we take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant , or indeed into this theater's foyer in about an hour's time , there is going to be food there waiting for us , having magically come from somewhere .	我們把它帶到一個店裡 , 如果我們進入一間店或餐廳裡 , 或在這個劇院裡 , 我們將會有食物 , 等待我們 , 等待我們 , 等待我們 , 有魔術地從某個地方開始 。
but when you think that every day for a city the size of london , enough food has to be produced , transported , bought and sold , cooked , eaten , disposed of , and that something similar has to happen every day for every city on earth , it's remarkable that cities get fed at all .	但當你認為在倫敦的城市大小食物的大小食物必須產生、運輸、運輸、吃、吃、吃、吃、吃、吃、吃、吃、吃、吃、吃、食物 , 都很可靠的城市 。
we live in places like this as if they're the most natural things in the world , forgetting that because we're animals and that we need to eat , we're actually as dependent on the natural world as our ancient ancestors were .	我們生活在像這樣的地方 , 如果他們是世界上最自然的事情 , 因為我們是動物和吃 , 我們需要吃 , 我們也需要吃 , 我們其實就像是祖先一樣的 。
and as more of us move into cities , more of that natural world is being transformed into extraordinary landscapes like the one behind me it's soybean fields in mato grosso in brazil in order to feed us .	隨著我們移動到城市裡 , 更自然的世界越來越多的土地景 , 就像我背後的其中之一 , 像我一樣在巴西 , 為了餵飽我們 。
these are extraordinary landscapes , but few of us ever get to see them .	這些都是很不凡的土地景 , 但 , 我們當中有些人都能看見它們 。
and increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either .	令人驚訝的是這些土地景不只是餵食使用者 。
as more of us move into cities , more of us are eating meat , so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals .	隨著我們移動到城市裡 , 更多人吃肉肉肉 , 所以這三分之一的全球 , 而不是人類動物 。
and given that it takes three times as much grain actually ten times as much grain to feed a human if it's passed through an animal first , that's not a very efficient way of feeding us .	儘管它花了三倍的時間 , 如果它通過動物第一次餵飽人類 , 那不是很有效率的方式來餵飽我們 。
and it's an escalating problem too .	這也是個計算問題 。
by 2050 , it's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities .	到了2050年 , 它估計 , 估計 , 我們將會住在城市中 。
and it's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed .	這也是估計 , 估計將會是tatat和丹佛消費 。
so meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand .	所以 , 脂肪和城市主義正在擴張手裡 。
and that's going to pose an enormous problem .	這將會是很大的問題 。
six billion hungry carnivores to feed , by 2050 .	六十億個飢餓車 , 到2050年 。
that's a big problem . and actually if we carry on as we are , it's a problem we're very unlikely to be able to solve .	這是個大問題 , 如果我們在於我們身上 , 它是個問題 , 問題是我們非常不可能解決的問題 。
nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land .	9億英畝的雨林都失去了雨林 , 每年要創造新的永續地 。
although at the same time we're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion .	雖然同時 , 我們也失去了一種永久性的存在 , 雖然我們失去了珊瑚化和爭議 。
we're very hungry for fossil fuels too .	我們對石油燃料燃料燃料燃料 。
it takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the west .	它花了大約10個小時的食物 , 我們消費在西方的食物中消費 。
and even though there is food that we are producing at great cost , we don't actually value it .	儘管有很大的成本 , 我們也沒有價值 。
half the food produced in the usa is currently thrown away .	美國有一半食物產生的一半食物生產 。
and to end all of this , at the end of this long process , we're not even managing to feed the planet properly .	至於這個長期過程結束 , 我們甚至甚至甚至不用用用在行星上飛行星 。
a billion of us are obese , while a further billion starve .	十億人是肥胖的 , 雖然一億顆恆星 。
none of it makes very much sense .	沒有它會變得非常合理 。
and when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations , it's a grim picture .	當你認為 , 在食物中有80%的全球貿易公司被控制 , 只有五種多種胰島素 , 這是個很大的照片 。
as we're moving into cities , the world is also embracing a western diet .	當我們搬進城市 , 世界也在擁抱一個西方飲食 。
and if we look to the future , it's an unsustainable diet .	如果我們看看未來 , 它是個不確定的飲食 。
so how did we get here ?	所以 , 我們要如何到這裡 ?
and more importantly , what are we going to do about it ?	更重要的是 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , to answer the slightly easier question first , about 10 , 000 years ago , i would say , is the beginning of this process in the ancient near east , known as the fertile crescent .	嗯 , 要回答第一 , 000年前 , 我會說 , 大約有10萬年前 , 我會說 , 在東岸的時代 , 叫做fert檔案的開端 。
because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .	因為 , 如你所見 , 這是最近的形狀 。
and it was also fertile .	這也是很棒的 。
and it was here , about 10 , 000 years ago , that two extraordinary inventions , agriculture and urbanism , happened roughly in the same place and at the same time .	這是在這裡 , 大約有10萬年前 , 農業發明、農業、農業、農業、農業、農業、同時也發生在同樣的地方 。
this is no accident , because agriculture and cities are bound together . they need each other .	這不是意外 , 因為農業和城市都聚在一起 。 他們需要彼此 。 他們需要彼此 。
because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements .	因為這是我們的古老祖先發現的祖先 , 創造出一種食物源源源自足夠的食物源源源 , 能夠支持永久性的設施 。
and if we look at what those settlements were like , we see they were compact .	如果我們看看這些設備是什麼樣子 , 我們看到它們是相互作用的 。
they were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at ur , that were , in fact , effectively , spiritualized , central food distribution centers .	他們被生產力的農場 , 由大型的溫度 , 例如這樣的手術 , 其實是 , 精神化化的、精神分佈中心的食物分佈中心 。
because it was the temples that organized the harvest , gathered in the grain , offered it to the gods , and then offered the grain that the gods didn't eat back to the people .	因為它是廢棄物 , 被組織成了 , 把它帶到上帝 , 給上帝 , 給上帝 , 然後提供給上帝 , 然後提供給上帝的人 。
so , if you like , the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them .	所以 , 如果你喜歡 , 整個城市的靈魂和生命生命生命生命生命的影響 。
and in fact , that's true of every ancient city .	事實上 , 這是每個古老城市的真實城市 。
but of course not all of them were that small .	但當然不是所有人都這麼小 。
famously , rome had about a million citizens by the first century a . d .	很有名 , 羅馬有大約一百萬名公民 。
so how did a city like this feed itself ?	那麼 , 像這樣的城市一樣嗎 ?
the answer is what i call " ancient food miles . "	答案是 , 我稱之為 「 古老食物 」
basically , rome had access to the sea , which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away .	基本上 , 羅馬必須取得海域 , 讓它從一個非常長遠的食物 。
this is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world , because it was very difficult to transport food over roads , which were rough .	這是唯一方法可以在古代世界各地做這件事 , 因為它很難運送食物跨路路路路上 , 這太難了 。
and the food obviously went off very quickly .	很顯然 , 食物很快 。
so rome effectively waged war on places like carthage and egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves .	所以 , 重要的是 , 像汽車一樣勇氣和埃及的埃及只能把它放在他們的穀物上 。
and , in fact , you could say that the expansion of the empire was really sort of one long , drawn out militarized shopping spree , really .	事實上 , 你可以說 , 帝國的擴張是很長、很長、很長的軍事購物速度 , 真的 。
in fact i love the fact , i just have to mention this: rome in fact used to import oysters from london , at one stage . i think that's extraordinary .	事實上 , 我愛事實是 , 我必須提到這一點:羅馬的角色從倫敦到倫敦 , 在一個階段 , 我想這是很不凡的 。
so rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite .	所以羅馬形狀它的隱形形形狀 ,
but the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the preindustrial world .	但有趣的事是 , 最初發生在普通世界中發生的事 。
if we look at a map of london in the 17th century , we can see that its grain , which is coming in from the thames , along the bottom of this map .	如果我們看看十七世紀倫敦的地圖 , 我們可以看到它的穀物 , 來自這個地圖 , 沿著這張地圖的底部 。
so the grain markets were to the south of the city .	所以 , 城市是到城市的南部 。
and the roads leading up from them to cheapside , which was the main market , were also grain markets .	道路從他們到便宜的路徑開始 , 這是主要市場 , 也是主要市場 。
and if you look at the name of one of those streets , bread street , you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago .	如果你看看那些街道的名字 , 街道 , 你可以告訴你在300年前發生了什麼事 。
and the same of course was true for fish .	當然 , 魚也是真的魚類 。
fish was , of course , coming in by river as well . same thing .	當然 , 魚當然 , 由河流和同樣的事 。
and of course billingsgate , famously , was london's fish market , operating onsite here until the mid1980s .	當然 , 棲息地 , 很有名 , 倫敦的魚市場 , 直到1980年代 , 直到1980年代 。
which is extraordinary , really , when you think about it .	這是很不凡的 , 當你想到它的時候 。
everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port .	其他人都在用手機上 , 看起來像布里克 , 看起來像布里克和類似的魚類 。
this is another thing about food in cities: once its roots into the city are established , they very rarely move .	這是城市裡的另一件事:一旦它根根根根植入城市中 , 它們很罕見 。
meat is a very different story because , of course , animals could walk into the city .	脂肪是一種非常不同的故事 , 因為動物可以走進城市裡 。
so much of london's meat was coming from the northwest , from scotland and wales .	倫敦的大量來自北部 , 從蘇格蘭和翅膀 。
so it was coming in , and arriving at the city at the northwest , which is why smithfield , london's very famous meat market , was located up there .	所以它在北部的城市 , 逮捕北部 , 這就是為什麼mithfield、倫敦很有名 , 倫敦很有名 。
poultry was coming in from east anglia and so on , to the northeast .	詩歌是來自東亞 , 到北部 , 到北部 。
i feel a bit like a weather woman doing this . anyway , and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes .	我覺得有點像aththther女人在做這件事 , 所以鳥類在他們的腳上 , 所以鳥類被保護 , 保護鞋子 。
and then when they hit the eastern end of cheapside , that's where they were sold , which is why it's called poultry .	接著 , 當他們撞擊東方的末端 , 那就是他們被賣出來的原因 , 這就是為什麼它稱作 「 詩人 」 。
and , in fact , if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age , you can trace food coming in to it .	事實上 , 如果你看看任何城市在工業時代的地圖 , 你可以在工業時代建立食物 。
you can actually see how it was physically shaped by food , both by reading the names of the streets , which give you a lot of clues .	你可以看到它是如何被食物的形狀 , 透過閱讀街道的名字 , 給你很多包含了 。
friday street , in a previous life , is where you went to buy your fish on a friday .	星期五街上 , 在一個星期五街上 , 你去買你的魚魚 。
but also you have to imagine it full of food .	但 , 你也必須想像它全部食物 。
because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold .	因為街道和公共空間的唯一地方 , 食物被買到的唯一地方 。
and if we look at an image of smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from .	如果我們看看1830年代 , 你可以看到它的圖像 , 你可以看到它將會非常困難 , 就像這個城市一樣 , 你的食物來自哪裡 , 你的食物來自哪裡 。
in fact , if you were having sunday lunch , the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier .	事實上 , 如果你有星期日午餐午餐 , 機會在你的窗戶外 , 可能在你的窗戶外 , 大約三天早點 。
so this was obviously an organic city , part of an organic cycle .	這很顯然是個機械城市 , 一部分有機機循環 。
and then 10 years later everything changed .	十年後 , 一切都改變了 。
this is an image of the great western in 1840 .	這是1840年代最偉大的西方人 。
and as you can see , some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep .	如你所見 , 有些最早的訓練者是豬 , 她的 。
so all of a sudden , these animals are no longer walking into market .	所以突然間 , 這些動物都不再走進市場 。
they're being slaughtered out of sight and mind , somewhere in the countryside .	他們被拒絕了 , 心中 , 有些地方在援助中 。
and they're coming into the city by rail .	他們會進入城市的城市 ,
and this changes everything .	這改變一切 。
to start off with , it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities , really any size and shape , in any place .	為了從此開始 , 它能讓城市成長城市變得可能 , 其實任何地方 。
cities used to be constrained by geography ; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means .	城市常常常被地理混亂的城市 , 他們以前必須用非常困難的意義 。
all of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography .	突然間他們對喬治亞的突然間 ,
and as you can see from these maps of london , in the 90 years after the trains came , it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot , and so on , to a large splurge , that would be very , very difficult to feed with anybody on foot , either animals or people .	如你所看到的這些地圖 , 在火車後90年後 , 它從一小塊小塊上 , 它從動物開始飛到腳上 , 所以 , 到一隻大型的蜘蛛 , 很難餵飽任何人 , 或動物 。
and of course that was just the beginning . after the trains came cars , and really this marks the end of this process .	當然 , 這只是一開始了 。 在訓練後 , 真的是這個過程後 , 真的是這個過程的 。
it's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all .	這是金融胚胎的城市 , 從任何顯然與自然之間的關係 。
and this is the kind of city that's devoid of smell , devoid of mess , certainly devoid of people , because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape .	這是嗅覺的城市 , 避免嗅覺的城市 , 可能避免人們 , 因為沒有人會在這樣的地景中 , 因為沒有人會夢想走進這樣的景象 。
in fact , what they did to get food was they got in their cars , drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts , came back with a week's worth of shopping , and wondered what on earth to do with it .	事實上 , 他們做的食物是他們在他們的車子裡 , 乾燥到一個盒子裡 , 帶著一周 , 回來了一週 , 回到地球上 。
and this really is the moment when our relationship , both with food and cities , changes completely .	這真的是當我們的關係時 , 兩者都改變了 。
here we have food that used to be the center , the social core of the city at the periphery .	這裡我們有食物 , 以前我們有食物的社會核心 。
it used to be a social event , buying and selling food .	它以前曾經是社交活動 , 購買食物 。
we used to cook ; now we just add water , or a little bit of an egg if you're making a cake or something .	我們以前曾經加入水 , 或有點蛋糕 , 如果你在製造一個蛋糕或東西 。
we don't smell food to see if it's okay to eat .	我們不聞聞聞到是否好吃 。
we just read the back of a label on a packet .	我們剛剛讀到的實驗室後面 。
and we don't value food . we don't trust it .	我們沒有價值食物 。 我們不相信它 。
so instead of trusting it , we fear it .	所以不是信任它 , 我們害怕它 。
and instead of valuing it , we throw it away .	而不是評估它 , 而是把它丟掉 。
one of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder .	現代糧食系統之一是他們所做的最偉大的諷刺之一 , 讓他們更容易變得更難 。
by making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place , they've actually distanced us from our most important relationship , which is that of us and nature .	藉由讓城市建立任何地方建造城市 , 它們其實距離我們最重要的關係 , 就是我們和自然之間的距離 。
and also they've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver , that , as we've seen , are unsustainable .	他們也讓我們依賴了系統 , 只有他們能仰賴的系統 , 就如我們所見 , 不可思議 。
so what are we going to do about that ?	那麼 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
it's not a new question .	這不是新的問題 。
500 years ago it's what thomas more was asking himself .	500年前 , 這是thomasasef 。
this is the frontispiece of his book " utopia . "	這是他的《烏托邦》 。
and it was a series of semiindependent citystates , if that sounds remotely familiar , a day's walk from one another where everyone was basically farmingmad , and grew vegetables in their back gardens , and ate communal meals together , and so on .	這是一系列的秘密城市 , 如果這聽起來很熟悉的城市 , 如果聽起來聽起來很熟悉 , 每天都從另一邊 , 每天都來自另一邊 , 所有人都是農業的農場 , 聚集在一起 。
and i think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of utopia , even though more never framed it that way .	我認為你可以說服食物是基礎的基本元素 , 甚至從來沒有框架的原則 , 即使更多從來沒有框架 。
and here is another very famous " utopian " vision , that of ebenezer howard , " the garden city . "	這是另一個非常有名的 「 烏托邦 」 的願景 , 伊波蘭城市 。
same idea: series of semiindependent citystates , little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around , joined to one another by railway .	同樣的點子:密切城市中的一系列城市 , 小小塊塊塊塊塊塊塊塊塊 , 加入到另一端 , 加入另一端 , 加入另一端 。
and again , food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision .	再一次 , 食物可能對他的視覺 。
it even got built , but nothing to do with this vision that howard had .	它甚至被建造出來 , 但沒有東西去做這個觀點 。
and that is the problem with these utopian ideas , that they are utopian .	這就是這些烏托邦思想的問題 , 他們是烏托邦 。
utopia was actually a word that thomas moore used deliberately .	烏托邦其實是個詞 , 威廉使用的詞彙 。
it was a kind of joke , because it's got a double derivation from the greek .	這是個笑話 , 因為它有一個懷疑 , 來自希臘的現代活動 。
it can either mean a good place , or no place .	它可以說是好的地方 , 或是沒有地方的地方 。
because it's an ideal . it's an imaginary thing . we can't have it .	因為這是個想法 , 它是個想像力 , 我們不能擁有它 。
and i think , as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling , that makes it not much use .	我想 , 作為一個概念工具來思考人類dwell的深層問題 , 使它不太用 。
so i've come up with an alternative , which is sitopia , from the ancient greek , " sitos " for food , and " topos " for place .	所以 , 我和一個替代方案 , 這是西比亞 , 從古希臘的希臘: 「 食物 」 、 「 食物 」 、 「 食物 」 。
i believe we already live in sitopia .	我相信我們已經住在西比亞 。
we live in a world shaped by food , and if we realize that , we can use food as a really powerful tool a conceptual tool , design tool , to shape the world differently .	我們生活在一個世界的形狀 , 如果我們意識到 , 我們可以用食物作為一個非常強大的工具 , 設計工具、設計工具、設計工具、塑造世界不同 。
so if we were to do that , what might sitopia look like ?	所以如果我們要這麼做 , 我們會坐在烏托邦看起來是什麼樣子 ?
well i think it looks a bit like this .	我認為它看起來有點像這樣 。
i have to use this slide . it's just the look on the face of the dog .	我必須用這張投影片來看狗的臉孔 。
but anyway , this is it's food at the center of life , at the center of family life , being celebrated , being enjoyed , people taking time for it .	但無論如何 , 這是生活在生命中心中心的食物中心 , 被慶祝、被慶祝、被享受、被享受 ,
this is where food should be in our society .	這是食物應該在我們的社會中 。
but you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this .	但你沒有像這樣的螢幕一樣 , 你有像這樣的人一樣 。
by the way , these can be men as well .	順便來說 , 這些可能是男人 。
it's people who think about food , who think ahead , who plan , who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them .	這是那些想食物的人 , 誰認為是一堆很罕見的 , 誰可以盯著他們 。
we need these people . we're part of a network .	我們需要這些人 。 我們是網絡的一部分 。
because without these kinds of people we can't have places like this .	因為沒有這些人可以像這樣的地方 。
here , i deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable .	這裡 , 我決定這是因為它是製造一個蔬菜 。
but networks , markets where food is being grown locally .	但網絡 , 食物的市場 , 食物是成長的地方 。
it's common . it's fresh .	它是常見的 。 它很常見 。
it's part of the social life of the city .	這是城市的一部分 。
because without that , you can't have this kind of place , food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape , and is not just a zerosum commodity off in some unseen hellhole .	因為不如此 , 你不能有這種地方 , 食物也成長在地景上 , 也不是零售商品的一部分 。
cows with a view .	用一個觀點來看 。
steaming piles of humus .	羞辱的堆積堆積 。
this is basically bringing the whole thing together .	這基本上把整個東西帶在一起 。
and this is a community project i visited recently in toronto .	這是我最近在諷刺的社區專案中 ,
it's a greenhouse , where kids get told all about food and growing their own food .	這是個綠色的 , 孩子們被告知食物和成長自己的食物 。
here is a plant called kevin , or maybe it's a plant belonging to a kid called kevin . i don't know .	這是個計畫叫做kevin , 或者它是植物屬於一個叫做kevin 。 我不知道 。
but anyway , these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important .	但 , 無論如何 , 這些類型的計畫 , 都在試圖重新連結我們 , 非常重要 。
so sitopia , for me , is really a way of seeing .	所以 , 對我來說 , 對我來說 , 真的是個方法 。
it's basically recognizing that sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere .	基本上 , 它基本上意識到 , 坐在小口袋裡 。
the trick is to join them up , to use food as a way of seeing .	幸運的是要加入它們 , 用食物作為一種方式來解決 。
and if we do that , we're going to stop seeing cities as big , metropolitan , unproductive blobs , like this .	如果我們這麼做 , 我們就要停止看城市 , 我們就要停止看城市 , 叔叔叔叔 , 就像這樣 。
we're going to see them more like this , as part of the productive , organic framework of which they are inevitably a part , symbiotically connected .	我們將看到更多像這樣 , 身為生產力、機械框架的一部分 , 可以完全連接在一起 。
but of course , that's not a great image either , because we need not to be producing food like this anymore .	但當然 , 這不是很棒的影像 , 因為我們不需要被證明食物像任何遙遠的食物 。
we need to be thinking more about permaculture , which is why i think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing .	我們需要更仔細思考 , 這就是為什麼我認為這張圖像只是為了我一樣想做的事 。
it's a reconceptualization of the way food shapes our lives .	這是食物塑造我們的生命形狀 。
the best image i know of this is from 650 years ago .	我從650年前所知最好的影像 。
it's ambrogio lorenzetti's " allegory of good government . "	它是阿布魯諾的 「 所有好政府 」 。
it's about the relationship between the city and the countryside .	這是城市之間之間之間的關係 。
and i think the message of this is very clear .	我認為這個訊息非常明顯 。
if the city looks after the country , the country will look after the city .	如果城市在這個國家後 , 國家會再看待城市 。
and i want us to ask now , what would ambrogio lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today ?	我想我們現在要問大家: 「 布魯諾 」 如果他今天畫了這張圖像 ?
what would an allegory of good government look like today ?	現今 , 好的政府看起來是什麼樣子 ?
because i think it's an urgent question .	因為我認為這是急迫的問題 。
it's one we have to ask , and we have to start answering .	這是我們必須問 , 我們必須開始回答 。
we know we are what we eat .	我們知道我們是吃什麼 。
we need to realize that the world is also what we eat .	我們需要了解這個世界也是我們吃的 。
but if we take that idea , we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better .	但如果我們這樣想 , 我們可以用食物作為一個非常強大的工具來塑造世界更好的工具 。
weeks from the charter for compassion launch , karen armstrong looks at religion's role in the 21st century: will its dogmas divide us ? or will it unite us for common good ? she reviews the catalysts that can drive the world's faiths to rediscover the golden rule .	由同情心發射的週期 , karen軍隊探討宗教的角色 , 在21世紀21世紀的角色:它會否否否認我們嗎 ? 或者它會讓我們不常見嗎 ? 她拒絕我們邀請世界各地的人 ? 她邀請我們改造世界的規則 。
god , ted prize , global issues , politics , religion , tedglobal2009 , violence	上帝 , ted獎勵、政治、政治、宗教、宗教、宗教、暴力、暴力、暴力 。
karen armstrong: let's revive the golden rule	karen軍隊:咱們來拯救黃金規則 。
for years i've been feeling frustrated , because as a religious historian , i've become acutely aware of the centrality of compassion in all the major world faiths .	幾年來我一直感到挫折 , 因為身為宗教的歷史學家 , 我已經成為了一個非常有意識的同情心 。
every single one of them has evolved their own version of what's been called the golden rule .	每一個人都有進化自己的版本都演化了他們的版本 。
sometimes it comes in a positive version " always treat all others as you'd like to be treated yourself . "	有時候它會出現在一個正面的版本中 , 就像你要被治療自己 。 」
and equally important is the negative version " don't do to others what you would not like them to do to you . "	同樣重要的是 , 負面版本 " 不要對其他人來說 , 你不喜歡他們做的事 。 "
look into your own heart , discover what it is that gives you pain and then refuse , under any circumstance whatsoever , to inflict that pain on anybody else .	看看你的心臟 , 發現它是什麼讓你痛苦 , 然後拒絕任何情況 , 在任何情況下 , 在任何人身上的痛苦 。
and people have emphasized the importance of compassion , not just because it sounds good , but because it works .	而人們有同情心的重要性 , 不僅是因為它聽起來很好 , 因為它是運作的 。
people have found that when they have implemented the golden rule as confucius said , " all day and every day , " not just a question of doing your good deed for the day and then returning to a life of greed and egotism , but to do it all day and every day , you dethrone yourself from the center of your world , put another there , and you transcend yourself .	人們發現 , 當他們有改善黃金規則時 , 每天每天都說: 「 每天和你一起做好準備好 , 然後回復了 , 然後回回復了 , 但 , 每一天 , 你都在世界中心的中心 。 」
and it brings you into the presence of what's been called god , nirvana , rama , tao .	然後它帶你進了什麼樣子 , 拉馬、拉馬、拉馬、老鼠 。
something that goes beyond what we know in our egobound existence .	我們所知 , 在我們的演算法中所知的事物 。
but you know you'd never know it a lot of the time , that this was so central to the religious life .	但你知道你永遠不知道 , 很多時候這是宗教生活的中心 。
because with a few wonderful exceptions , very often when religious people come together , religious leaders come together , they're arguing about abstruse doctrines or uttering a council of hatred or inveighing against homosexuality or something of that sort .	因為有一些很棒的興奮 , 通常當宗教人聚在一起時 , 宗教領袖一起聚在一起 , 宗教領袖們聚在一起 , 他們在爭議中爭取行動 , 不管是對抗仇恨或其他東西 。
often people don't really want to be compassionate .	通常人們不想同情心 。
i sometimes see when i'm speaking to a congregation of religious people a sort of mutinous expression crossing their faces because people often want to be right instead .	有時候我會看到宗教的人 , 有時我會看到宗教的人 , 因為人們常常常想對話 , 因為人們常想對對對的臉孔 , 因為人們通常會想對對對對 。
and that of course defeats the object of the exercise .	當然這當然是沙漠的物體 。
now why was i so grateful to ted ?	為什麼我這麼感謝ted呢 ?
because they took me very gently from my booklined study and brought me into the 21st century , enabling me to speak to a much , much wider audience than i could have ever conceived .	因為他們拿了我本書的研究 , 帶我進21世紀 , 讓我開始跟我說話 , 比我多 , 比我有沒有意識到的觀眾 。
because i feel an urgency about this .	因為我覺得這是個急迫性 。
if we don't manage to implement the golden rule globally , so that we treat all peoples , wherever and whoever they may be , as though they were as important as ourselves , i doubt that we'll have a viable world to hand on to the next generation .	如果我們不能夠改善全球規則全球性的規則 , 所以我們治療所有人 , 無論他們在哪裡 , 無論他們是很重要的 , 我懷疑 , 雖然他們很重要 , 我會懷疑下一代的世界 。
the task of our time , one of the great tasks of our time , is to build a global society , as i said , where people can live together in peace .	在我們的時間裡 , 其中一個偉大任務之一 , 就是建立一個全球社會社會 , 如我所說的 , 人們可以聚在一起 。
and the religions that should be making a major contribution are instead seen as part of the problem .	而宗教宗教應該成為大眾貢獻的一部分 , 而不是問題的一部分 。
and of course it's not just religious people who believe in the golden rule .	當然 , 不只是宗教人相信在黃金規則 。
this is the source of all morality , this imaginative act of empathy , putting yourself in the place of another .	這是所有道德的源頭 , 這是想像力的源頭 , 把自己放在另一邊 。
and so we have a choice , it seems to me .	所以我們有一個選擇 , 它似乎對我來說 。
we can either go on bringing out or emphasizing the dogmatic and intolerant aspects of our faith , or we can go back to the rabbis . rabbi hillel , the older contemporary of jesus , who , when asked by a pagan to sum up the whole of jewish teaching while he stood on one leg , said , " that which is hateful to you , do not do to your neighbor .	我們可以把狗帶出來或同情心 , 把狗放在我們的信仰 , 進入我們的信仰 , 或者我們可以回到兔子的角度來看 , 老鼠 , 老年的老鼠 , 他問了一堆猶太人 , 他問了一堆猶太人 , 在猶太教徒時 , 他說: 「 哈囉 。 」
that is the torah and everything else is only commentary . "	那就是rah和所有其他東西都只有元素 。 」
and the rabbis and the early fathers of the church who said that any interpretation of scripture that bred hatred and disdain was illegitimate .	而兔子和早期的父親父親父親父親父親說 , 任何詮釋的描述 , 那些被忽略的仇恨和災難 。
and we need to revive that spirit .	我們需要重建這個精神 。
and it's not just going to happen because a spirit of love wafts us down .	這不只是會發生因為愛情波浪的精神 ,
we have to make this happen , and we can do it with the modern communications that ted has introduced .	我們必須做出這個事 , 我們可以用現代溝通 , 和現代溝通 。
already i've been tremendously heartened at the response of all our partners .	我已經被心臟病患的反應 , 在所有夥伴的所有夥伴 。
in singapore , we have a group going to use the charter to heal divisions recently that have sprung up in singaporean society , and some members of the parliament want to implement it politically .	在阿波波波波波波波波波羅 , 最近 , 我們有一群人在唱歌中 , 有些人在唱歌中 , 有些成員想要改善政治 。
in malaysia , there is going to be an art exhibition in which leading artists are going to be taking people , young people , and showing them that compassion also lies at the root of all art .	在馬拉雅亞 , 將會成為藝術展覽藝術展覽 , 讓大家 , 年輕人、年輕人、年輕人、年輕人、年輕人、年輕人、同情心的角色 。
throughout europe , the muslim communities are holding events and discussions , are discussing the centrality of compassion in islam and in all faiths .	在歐洲 , 穆斯林社區中 , 穆斯林和討論 , 討論的是同情心 , 討論的是伊斯蘭和所有信仰 。
but it can't stop there . it can't stop with the launch .	但它不能停下來 。 它不能停下來 。
religious teaching , this is where we've gone so wrong , concentrating solely on believing abstruse doctrines .	宗教教導的教導 , 這是我們錯的 , 很快地在信念上 , 很快地說話 。
religious teaching must always lead to action .	宗教教導一定總是帶領行動 。
and i intend to work on this till my dying day .	我希望每天在這個組織上工作 。
and i want to continue with our partners to do two things educate and stimulate compassionate thinking .	我想繼續跟我們的夥伴們一起做兩件事 , 讓同情心和刺激的同情心 。
education because we've so dropped out of compassion .	教育是因為我們太乾燥了 。
people often think it simply means feeling sorry for somebody .	人們通常認為這只是對某人感到抱歉 。
but of course you don't understand compassion if you're just going to think about it .	但當然你不了解同情心 , 如果你只想一下它 。
you also have to do it .	你也必須做到 。
i want them to get the media involved because the media are crucial in helping to dissolve some of the stereotypical views we have of other people , which are dividing us from one another .	我想讓他們參與媒體參與媒體 , 因為媒體是很重要的關鍵觀點 , 幫助我們解放一些人 , 來分析一些人 , 我們從另一方面 。
the same applies to educators .	同樣的應用程式是一樣的 。
i'd like youth to get a sense of the dynamism , the dynamic and challenge of a compassionate lifestyle .	我希望你們能了解dna分子的感覺 , 動態和挑戰一種同理心和挑戰的生命方式 。
and also see that it demands acute intelligence , not just a gooey feeling .	同時也看到它需求的需求 , 不僅僅是黃金的感覺 。
i'd like to call upon scholars to explore the compassionate theme in their own and in other people's traditions .	我想要稱之為 「 學者 」 來探索同理心的對稱 。
and perhaps above all , to encourage a sensitivity about uncompassionate speaking , so that because people have this charter , whatever their beliefs or lack of them , they feel empowered to challenge uncompassionate speech , disdainful remarks from their religious leaders , their political leaders , from the captains of industry .	也許 , 鼓勵一個鼓勵 , 鼓勵一個關於大學的敏感說話 , 因為人們有這個章節 , 無論他們的信念 , 無論他們的信念 , 無論他們的信仰或缺乏他們的信仰 , 他們感到難以置信 , 從他們的宗教領袖 , 從他們的宗教領袖 , 從他們的政治領袖 , 從他們的領導人的領導人 。
because we can change the world , we have the ability .	因為我們可以改變世界 , 我們有能力改變 。
i would never have thought of putting the charter online .	我從來沒有想到把章節放在線上 。
i was still stuck in the old world of a whole bunch of boffins sitting together in a room and issuing yet another arcane statement .	我還是在房間裡 , 一堆瓶瓶瓶子坐在房間裡 , 還在觸摸了另一種爭議 。
and ted introduced me to a whole new way of thinking and presenting ideas .	而ted引導我到一個全新的思想和展示想法 。
because that is what is so wonderful about ted .	因為那是非常棒的 。
in this room , all this expertise , if we joined it all together , we could change the world .	在這個房間裡 , 所有的專家 , 如果我們加入它 , 我們可以改變世界 。
and of course the problems sometimes seem insuperable .	當然問題有時候似乎不可思議 。
but i'd just like to quote , finish at the end with a reference to a british author , an oxford author whom i don't quote very often , c . s . lewis .	但我只是想引述英國 , 最後希望在英國一場英國的作家 , 一位奧克•勞德 , 一位奧克•勞斯 , 我不想引導我 , 請不要引起我 。
but he wrote one thing that stuck in my mind ever since i read it when i was a schoolgirl .	但他寫了一件事 , 從我開始讀它時 , 我讀了一件事 。
it's in his book " the four loves . "	在他的書中 , 《四個愛》中 。
he said that he distinguished between erotic love , when two people gaze , spellbound , into each other's eyes .	他說他在英雄愛的愛中時 , 當兩個人同性戀時 , 彼此之間的眼睛 。
and then he compared that to friendship , when two people stand side by side , as it were , shoulder to shoulder , with their eyes fixed on a common goal .	然後他對朋友來說 , 當兩人站站起來時 , 肩膀肩膀上肩膀 , 肩膀上肩膀上 。
we don't have to fall in love with each other , but we can become friends .	我們不需要愛彼此 , 但我們可以變成朋友 。
and i am convinced .	我說服了 。
i felt it very strongly during our little deliberations at vevey , that when people of all different persuasions come together , working side by side for a common goal , differences melt away .	我覺得它非常強烈地在我們的小部落中 , 當人們不同的觀點聚在一起時 , 與共同點合作 , 與共同點合作 , 差別離 。
and we learn amity .	我們學會學習能力 。
and we learn to live together and to get to know one another .	我們學會一起學習彼此 , 去了解彼此 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝各位 。
david macaulay relives the winding and sometimes surreal journey toward the completion of rome antics , his illustrated homage to the historic city .	大衛馬卡拉斯的贏家 , 有時候保險旅程 , 有時候urreal旅程 , 他向歷史的競爭 。
macarthur grant , art , arts , book , cities , communication , culture , design , entertainment , humor , storytelling	數學、藝術、藝術、藝術、城市、溝通、溝通、文化、娛樂、文化、娛樂、幽默、幽默、幽默、幽默、幽默的故事 。
i draw to better understand things .	我畫得更好了解事物 。
sometimes i make a lot of drawings and i still don't understand what it is i'm drawing .	有時候我做了很多畫作 , 我仍然不知道它是什麼樣子 。
those of you who are comfortable with digital stuff and even smug about that relationship might be amused to know that the guy who is best known for " the way things work , " while preparing for part of a panel for called understanding , spent two days trying to get his laptop to communicate with his new cd burner .	你們當中有些人很舒適的數位東西 , 甚至對數位事物來說 , 關係可能被認為是最好的知道 , 「 事物 」 的一部分 」 , 雖然他們準備好了兩天 , 為了了解 , 花兩天的時間來和他的新客戶溝通 。
who knew about extension managers ?	誰知道外表管理者 ?
i've always managed my own extensions so it never even occurred to me to read the instructions , but i did finally figure it out . i had to figure it out , because along with the invitation came the frightening reminder that there would be no projector , so bringing those carousels would no longer be necessary but some alternate form of communication would .	我一直在管理我自己的表演 , 儘管我從來沒發生過 , 但我終於發現它 。 我終於發現它 。 我終於發現它 。 我必須搞清楚它 , 因為與邀請者之間沒有專案 , 讓這些車子變得更久 , 讓這些汽車不再是必要的 。
now , i could talk about something that i'm known for , something that would be particularly appropriate for many of the more technically minded people here , or i could talk about something i really care about .	現在 , 我可以談談到我所知的事情 , 特別是適用於許多科技的人 , 或者我可以談論我真正關心的東西 , 或者我可以談論我真正關心的事情 。
i decided to go with the latter .	我決定去跟拉特特特 。
i'm going to talk about rome .	我要談羅馬 。
now , why would i care about rome , particularly ?	那麼 , 為什麼我會關心羅馬 , 特別是呢 ?
well , i went to rhode island school of design in the second half of the '60s to study architecture .	嗯 , 我去了rhodede是設計的一半 , 六○年代來研究建築師 。
i was lucky enough to spend my last year , my fifth year , in rome as a student . it changed my life .	我很幸運花了我過去一年 , 我的第五年 , 在羅馬作為一個學生 。 它改變了我的人生 。
not the least reason was the fact that i had spent those first four years living at home , driving into risd everyday , driving back .	不論是 , 我花了過去四年的時間 , 開車進入星期五 , 開車回家 。
i missed the '60s . i read about them ; i understand they were pretty interesting . i missed them , but i did spend that extraordinary year in rome , and it's a place that is never far from my mind .	我在60年代 , 我讀了他們 ; 我了解他們很有趣 。 但我在羅馬的一年中 , 我在羅馬的一年裡 , 我花了這個地方從來沒有遠離我的腦袋裡 。
so , whenever given an opportunity , i try to do something in it or with it or for it .	所以 , 儘管有機會 , 我試著在它或對它或對它 。
i also make drawings to help people understand things .	我也畫畫畫了幫助人們了解事物 。
things that i want them to believe i understand .	我想他們相信我理解的事物 。
and that's what i do as an illustrator , that's my job .	這就是我作為一個幻想師 , 這是我的工作 。
so , i'm going to show you some pictures of rome .	所以 , 我要給大家看一些羅馬的照片 。
i've made a lot of drawings of rome over the years .	我花了很多年的時間 。
these are just drawings of rome . i get back as often as possible i need to .	這是羅馬的畫面 , 我回溯到我需要的 。
all different materials , all different styles , all different times , drawings from sketchbooks looking at the details of rome .	所有不同的材料 , 各種不同的壓力 , 都來自ketchbookbookbookbook的細節 。
part of the reason i'm showing you these is that it sort of helps illustrate this process i go through of trying to figure out what it is i feel about rome and why i feel it .	其中一部分是我展示的原因之一 , 就是它可以幫助我說明這過程的過程 , 我透過試圖找出它的感覺 , 以及為什麼我感受到它 。
these are sketches of some of the little details .	這些都是小細節的小細節 。
rome is a city full of surprises .	羅馬是一個充滿驚訝的城市 。
i mean , we're talking about unusual perspectives , we're talking about narrow little winding streets that suddenly open into vast , sundrenched piazzas never , though , piazzas that are not humanly scaled .	我的意思是 , 我們正在談論不尋常的觀點 , 我們正在談論奈米的小街道 , 突然間 , 突然間 , 陽光被打開了 , 巴西的巴西 , 巴西並不是人類的規模 。
part of the reason for that is the fact that they grew up organically .	原因是 , 他們長大的原因之一 。
that amazing juxtaposition of old and new , the bits of light that come down between the buildings that sort of create a map that's traveling above your head of usually blue especially in the summer compared to the map that you would normally expect to see of conventional streets .	這種奇妙的叢林和新鮮 , 光是創造出一個地圖 , 創造出一張地圖 , 尤其是在夏天的夏天 , 特別是在夏天的夏天 , 尤其是在夏天街上 。
and i began to think about how i could communicate this in book form .	我開始思考一下我如何在書形式中溝通 。
how could i share my sense of rome , my understanding of rome ?	我要如何分享我的角色 , 我對羅馬的理解 ?
and i'm going to show you a bunch of dead ends , basically .	我要給大家看一堆死死 , 基本上是 。
the primary reason for all these dead ends is when if you're not quite sure where you're going , you're certainly not going to get there with any kind of efficiency .	這些死端的主要原因是 , 如果你不確定你在哪裡 , 你肯定不會在哪裡 , 你肯定不會跟任何類型的效率 。
here's a little map . and i thought of maps at the beginning ; maybe i should just try and do a little atlas of my favorite streets and connections in rome .	這是個小圖片 , 我想在一開始的地圖 , 也許我應該試著做一些小的街頭 , 以及在羅馬街和連結 。
and here's a line of text that actually evolves from the exhaust of a scooter zipping across the page .	這是一系列的文字 , 實際上演化成了一系列的文字 , 跨越頁面 。
here that same line of text wraps around a fountain in an illustration that can be turned upside down and read both ways .	此外 , 文字的相同 , 在一個幻覺中 , 可以被轉向下降 , 閱讀兩種方式 。
maybe that line of text could be a story to help give some human aspect to this .	也許那條文字可能是個故事 , 協助給一些人類觀點 。
maybe i should get away from this map completely , and really be honest about wanting to show you my favorite bits and pieces of rome and simply kick a soccer ball in the air which happens in so many of the squares in the city and let it bounce off of things . and i'll simply explain what each of those things is that the soccer ball hits .	也許我應該離開這個地圖 , 真的很誠實 , 真的很誠實 , 讓你們看我的最喜歡的一點 , 只是在城市中許多平方公尺中發生了什麼事 , 讓它從城市中得到的所有東西 。 我只是解釋這些東西 。
that seemed like a sort of a cheap shot .	這看起來就像有點便宜的照片 。
but even though i just started this presentation , this is not the first thing that i tried to do and i was getting sort of desperate .	但儘管我剛開始這個報告 , 這不是我試著做的事 , 我試著做一些辯論 。
eventually , i realized that i had really no content that i could count on , so i decided to move towards packaging .	最後 , 我意識到 , 我不知道我可以算算數 , 所以我決定要向前推動 。
i mean , it seems to work for a lot of things .	我的意思是 , 這似乎是為了許多事情 。
so i thought a little box set of four small books might do the trick .	所以我認為一個小盒子裡有四個小小盒子可能做 。
but one of the ideas that emerged from some of those sketches was the notion of traveling through rome in different vehicles at different speeds in order to show the different aspects of rome .	但其中一個想法 , 從一些不同的角度來看 , 不論是旅行的角色之一 , 在不同的速度中 , 為了展示不同的角色 , 為了展示不同的角色 。
sort of an overview of rome and the plan that you might see from a dirigible .	有點像是羅馬和規劃的植物 , 你可能從一個可怕的 。
quick snapshots of things you might see from a speeding motor scooter , and very slow walking through rome , you might be able to study in more detail some of the wonderful surfaces and whatnot that you come across .	很快地 , 你可能從一個速度中看到的摩托機 , 很慢慢地走過羅馬 , 你可能可以研究更多細節的細節 , 你可能可以在跨越一些美妙的表面 。
anyways , i went back to the dirigible notion .	總之 , 我回到了可怕的觀點 。
went to alberto santosdumont .	去了阿伯特•維特 。
found one of his dirigibles that had enough dimensions so i could actually use it as a scale that i would then juxtapose with some of the things in rome .	找到他可怕的其中之一 , 我可以用它作為一個我可以把它當作一個在羅馬的尺度上 。
this thing would be flying over or past or be parked in front of , but it would be like having a ruler sort of travel through the pages without being a ruler .	這東西會在前面或過去或被公開 , 但它就像有規則 , 但它就像有規則 , 沒有規則 。
not that you know how long number 11 actually is , but you would be able to compare number 11 against the pantheon with number 11 against the baths of caracalla , and so on and so forth . if you were interested .	不管你知道有多久的11點 , 但你可以和數字11對抗監獄的第11位對抗碳有興趣 , 所以 , 如果你很感興趣 。
this is beatrix . she has a dog named ajax , she has purchased a dirigible a small dirigible she's assembling the structure , ajax is sniffing for holes in the balloon before they set off .	這是atrix 。 她有一個狗叫做jaxx , 她有了一小片可怕的一小塊小片 , 一個小型的形狀 , jax就是在二氧化碳之前 。
she launches this thing above the spanish steps and sets off for an aerial tour of the city .	她在西班牙的步驟 , 為一開始 , 為一個市民的一員 。
over the spanish steps we go .	在西班牙的步驟中 ,
a nice way to show that river , that stream sort of pouring down the hill .	一個好方法來說明河流 , 這種河流的流下 。
unfortunately , just across the road from it or quite close by is the column of marcus aurelius , and the diameter of the dirigible makes an impression , as you can see , as she starts trying to read the story that spirals around the column of marcus aurelius gets a little too close , nudges it .	不幸的是 , 只要從它或非常靠近的路徑 , 就是海洋博物館的大部份 , 就可以看見 , 當她開始嘗試閱讀 , 當她開始嘗試閱讀故事時 , 你可以看到 , 當她開始嘗試閱讀故事時 , 牠就會開始嘗試閱讀 。
this gives me a chance to suggest to you the structure of the column of marcus aurelius , which is really no more than a pile of quarters high thick quarters . over the piazza of saint ignacio , completely ruining the symmetry , but that aside a spectacular place to visit .	這讓我提出了一個機會 , 來說明火星的結構結構 , 這其實不是一堆平方公尺高的高度厚厚度 , 在巴西的西 , 在巴西的西地區 , 完全毀滅了 , 完全毀滅性的對稱 。
a spectacular framework , inside of which you see , usually , extraordinary blue sky .	一個尊重的框架 , 通常你所看到的 , 通常是藍色的藍色天空 。
over the pantheon and the 26foot diameter oculus .	在監獄和26英尺中 , 有26英尺 。
she parks her dirigible , lowers the anchor rope and climbs down for a closer look inside .	她公園 , 把她拆開 , 低樓 , 爬到內部 , 爬到內部 。
the text here is right side and upside down so that you are forced to turn the book around , and you can see it from ground point of view and from her point of view looking in the hole , getting a different kind of perspective , moving you around the space . particularly appropriate in a building that can contain perfectly a sphere dimensions of the diameter being the same as the distance from the center of the floor to the center of the oculus .	這裡的文字是右邊的 , 所以你被迫切轉換到書面 , 你可以看到它從她角度來看 , 從她的角度來看 , 讓你從太空中看來 , 特別適用於一個建築物的距離 , 特別適用於一棟建築物中心的距離 。
unfortunately for her , the anchor line gets tangled around the feet of some boy scouts who are visiting the pantheon , and they are immediately yanked out and given an extraordinary but terrifying tour of some of the domes of rome , which would , from their point of view , naturally be hanging upside down .	不幸的是 , 對她來說 , 教師來說 , 不幸的是一些男孩在監獄中 , 他們會立刻被監禁禁 , 他們是很不可思議的 , 讓他們感到驚訝 , 從羅馬的角度來源 , 從他們的角度來看 , 從他們的角度來看 , 從自然的角度來看 。
they bail out as soon as they get to the top of saint ivo , that little spiral structure you see there .	他們把這些電子郵件拿到我投票的頂端結構 , 你可以看到那裡 。
she continues on her way over piazza navona .	她持續在巴西的路上 , 她繼續了她的路徑 。
notices a lot of activity at the tre scalini restaurant , is reminded that it is lunchtime and she's hungry .	注意到很多活動 , 在trettreur餐廳裡 , 被提醒了 , 她很飢餓 。
they keep on motoring towards the campo de' fiori , which they soon reach . ajax the dog is put in a basket and lowered with a list of food into the marketplace , which flourishes there until about one in the afternoon , and then is completely removed and doesn't appear again until six or seven the following morning .	他們持續在監控活動中 , 他們很快快就到達了 。 狗狗是把狗放在籃子裡 , 把狗放在籃子裡 , 直到那裡 , 直到午餐後 , 直到午餐後 , 直到六到七歲 , 直到七歲 , 直到七歲 , 直到早上 。
anyway , the pooch gets back to the dirigible with the stuff .	總之 , 詩會回溯到可怕的東西 。
unfortunately , when she goes to unwrap the prosciutto , ajax makes a lunge for it .	不幸的是 , 當她走進去時 , 一個jaxxx , 一個jaxxx光製造出一個奢侈品 。
she's managed to save the prosciutto , but in the process she loses the tablecloth , which you can see flying away in the upper lefthand corner .	她必須拯救原生的原則 , 但在過程中 , 她失去了桌子 , 你可以看到在左邊的左邊 。
they continue without their tablecloth , looking for a place to land this thing so that they can actually have lunch .	他們持續沒有他們的桌子 , 尋找一個地方 , 尋找一個地方 , 所以他們可以有午餐 。
they eventually discover a huge wall that's filled with small holes , ideal for docking a dirigible because you've got a place to tie up .	他們最終發現了一個巨大的牆壁裡 , 想做一個很棒的牆壁 , 因為你有一個地方去組織 。
turns out to be the exterior wall that part of it that remains of the coliseum , so they park themselves there and have a terrific lunch and have a spectacular view .	結果發現 , 冷凍的一部分牆壁 , 所以他們把自己放在在那裡 , 所以他們把自己放在在那裡 , 有一個驚人的午餐 , 有一個很棒的觀點 。
at the end of lunch , they untie the anchor , they set off through the baths of caracalla and over the walls of the city and then an abandoned gatehouse and decide to take one more look at the pyramid of cestius , which has this lightning rod on top .	在午餐結束時 , 他們把一堆碳放到城市裡 , 他們在城市裡 , 然後在城市的牆壁上 , 然後一個廢棄的牆壁 , 決定要把一個更加仔細地看 , 這燈光在頂上 , 上面有這個燈光 。
unfortunately , that's a problem: they get a little too close , and when you're in a dirigible you have to be very careful about spikes .	不幸的是 , 這是問題:他們得到一點太靠近 , 當你在一個可怕的時候 , 你必須非常非常關心 。
so that sort of brings her little story to a conclusion .	所以這類方法讓她小故事變成一個結論 。
marcello , on the other hand , is sort of a lazy guy , but he's not due at work until about noon .	另一方面 , 在另一方面 , 有點奇怪的傢伙 , 但他不是在工作之前 。
so , the alarm goes off and it's five to 12 or so .	所以 , 太陽會走下去 , 5到12 , ~ 12歲 。
he gets up , leaps onto his scooter , races through the city past the church of santa maria della pace , down the alleys , through the streets that tourists may be wandering through , disturbing the quiet backstreet life of rome at every turn .	他走上去 , 萊特在他城裡 , 穿過舊馬利亞的教堂 , 穿過聖塔利亞的街道 , 穿過聖誕節的街道 , 穿越了安靜的路 , 每小時都在路上 。
that speed with which he is moving , i hope i have suggested in this little image , which , again , can be turned around and read from both sides because there's text on the bottom and text on the top , one of which is upside down in this image .	這張照片是他正在移動 , 我希望我在這個圖片上 , 再一次 , 再一次 , 再次 , 因為沒有在底部和讀書館上 , 上面寫了這張圖片 。
so , he keeps on moving , approaching an unsuspecting waiter who is trying to deliver two plates of linguine in a delicate white wine clam sauce to diners who are sitting at a table just outside of a restaurant in the street .	所以 , 他繼續移動 , 靠近一個未知的等待 , 他試圖將兩倍的語言描述兩倍 。
waiter catches on , but it's too late .	等等 , 它太遲了 , 但它太遲了 。
and marcello keeps moving in his scooter .	火星持續移動 , 火星持續移動 。
everything he sees from this point on is slightly affected by the linguine , but keeps on moving because this guy's got a job to do .	他從這個角度來看 , 一切都很有趣 , 但繼續移動 , 因為這傢伙必須做動作 。
removes some scaffolding . one of the reasons rome remains the extraordinary place it is that because of scaffolding and the determination to maintain the fabric , it is a city that continues to grow and adapt to the needs of the particular time in which it finds itself , or we find it .	移除一些難題之一的原因之一 , 羅馬維維持了最不凡的地方之一 , 因為咖啡館和決定要維持建築物 , 因為咖啡館持續成長和適應的需求 , 它是個城市持續成長和適應的需求 。
right through the piazza della rotonda , in front of the pantheon again wreaking havoc and finally getting to work .	在巴西的巴西•羅斯頓 , 在監獄前 , 在監獄前 , 終於要努力工作 。
marcello , as it turns out , is the driver of the number 64 bus , and if you've been on the number 64 bus , you know that it's driven with the same kind of exuberance as marcello demonstrated on his scooter .	火星 , 結果結果發現 , 是64個公車的駕駛者 , 如果你在數字64公車上 , 你知道它在他的螢幕上開車 。
and finally carletto . you see his apartment in the upper lefthand corner .	最後一張漫畫 , 你可以看到他的公寓 。
he's looking at his table ; he's planning to propose this evening to his girlfriend of 40 years , and he wants it to be perfect .	他看著他的桌子 , 他正在飛機 , 他在四十年內 , 他希望它能完美 。
he's got candles out , he's got flowers in the middle and he's trying to figure out where to put the plates and the glasses .	他有辦法放棄 , 他有花朵在中間 , 然後他試圖找出哪些地方 , 把玻璃放在外面和玻璃 。
but he's not happy ; something's wrong .	但他不是快樂 ; 有些錯了 。
the phone rings anyway , he's called to the palazzo .	電話給任何公路 , 他叫巴拉zozo 。
he saunters he saunters at a good clip , but as compared to all the traveling we've just seen , he's sauntering .	他在一個很好的診斷 , 但當我們看過我們剛看到的旅行 , 但隨著我們剛剛看到的 , 他正在捕捉我們 。
everybody knows carletto , because he's in entertainment , actually ; he's in television .	每個人都知道漫畫 , 因為他在娛樂中 , 他在電視中 。
he's actually in television repair , which is why people know him .	他實際上在電視節目中 , 這就是為什麼人們知道他 。
so they all have his number .	所以他們都有他的數字 。
he arrives at the palazzo , arrives at the big front door .	他在巴拉zozozo、arrive在大門前 。
enters the courtyard and talks to the custodian , who tells him that there's been a disaster in the palazzo ; nobody's tvs are working and there's a big soccer game coming up , and the crowd is getting a little restless and a little nervous .	在巴西和客戶交談 , 他告訴他 , 有一個災難 , 他告訴他 , 在巴西的巴西 ; 沒有人在工作 , 沒有人在工作中 , 有一大堆巨大的遊戲 , 箭頭是越來越少的餐廳裡 。
he goes down to the basement and starts to check the wiring , and then gradually works his way up to the top of the building , apartment by apartment , checking every television , checking every connection , hoping to find out what this problem is .	他走到基礎 , 開始檢查翅膀 , 然後漸漸地地工作 , 將他走到建築物的頂端 , 透過公寓、檢查每一條電視、檢查每個連結 , 都能找出這問題 。
he works his way up , finally , the grand staircase and then a smaller staircase until he reaches the attic .	最後他用他的路徑 , 最後 , 祖母的樓梯 , 直到他到政治上 。
he opens the window of the attic , of course , and there's a tablecloth wrapped around the building's television antenna .	當然他打開了大樓的窗戶 , 當然有一台桌桌子繞著大樓的電視 。
he removes it , the problems are solved , everybody in the palazzo is happy .	他移除它 , 問題是解決的 , 問題都很高興 。
and of course , he also solves his own problem .	當然 , 他也解決了自己的問題 。
all he has to do now , with a perfect table , is wait for her to arrive .	他現在必須做一個完美的桌子 , 等著她來抵達 。
that was the first attempt , but it didn't seem substantial enough to convey whatever it was i wanted to convey about rome .	那是第一個跳傘 , 但它似乎不太太太容易了 , 不論它是什麼 , 我想要對羅馬 。
so i thought , well , i'll just do piazzas , and i'll get inside and underneath and i'll show these things growing and show why they're shaped the way they are and so on .	所以我想 , 嗯 , 我要做巴西 , 然後我會把這些東西放進 , 然後我會把這些東西放進 , 看看他們在哪裡 , 為什麼他們會塑造它們 , 等等 。
and then i thought , that's too complicated . no , i'll just take my favorite bits and pieces and i'll put them inside the pantheon but keep the scale , so you can see the top of sant'ivo and the pyramid of cestius and the tempietto of bramante all side by side in this amazing space .	然後我心想 , 這太複雜了 。 不 , 我會把我的最喜歡的一點 , 然後把它們放進監獄裡 , 讓它們放進監獄和祈禱 , 所以你可以看到聖誕的頂端 。
now that's one drawing , so i thought maybe it's time for piranesi to meet escher .	這是一幅畫 , 所以我認為也許是為了啟發者 。
you see that i'm beginning to really lose control here and also hope .	你可以看到 , 我開始非常失去控制 , 也希望 。
there's a very thin blue line of exhaust that sort of runs through this thing that would be kind of the trail that holds it all together .	這裡有一個非常薄的藍色線 , 這種東西會透過這個東西來讓它結合在一起 。
then i thought , " wait a minute , what am i doing ? "	然後我想: 「 等一下 , 我在做什麼 ? 」
a book is not only a neat way of collecting and storing information , it's a series of layers .	一本書不只是收集和儲存資訊 , 而是一系列的資料 。
i mean , you always peel one layer off another ; we think of them as pages , doing it a certain way .	我的意思是 , 你總是把一層拉拉下來 , 我們認為他們是p頁面 , 做某種方式 。
but think of them as layers . i mean , rome is a place of layers horizontal layers , vertical layers and i thought , well just peeling off a page would allow me to if i got you thinking about it the right way would allow me to sort of show you the depth of layers .	但想想他們身為拉雅人 , 我的意思是 , 羅馬是個拉雅人、版本、版本、版本、版本 , 我想 , 讓我給各位看 , 只要我去想 , 讓你們看正確的方式來 , 讓我向各位展示給你們展示給你們看正確的方式 。
the stucco on the walls of most of the buildings in rome covers the scars ; the scars of centuries of change as these structures have been adapted rather than being torn down .	在羅馬的牆壁上 , 大部分建築物的牆壁裡 , 隨著這些結構的變化 , 而這些結構已經被破壞了 。
if i do a foldout page on the lefthand side and let you just unfold it , you see behind it what i mean by scar tissue .	如果我在左手邊的摺紙頁 , 你就會看到我所謂的 「 組織 」 , 你可以看到我所謂的 「 恐怖組織 」
you can see that in 1635 , it became essential to make smaller windows because the bad guys were coming or whatever .	你可以看到在1635年 , 它變成了更小的窗戶 , 因為壞傢伙正在來或任何事 。
adaptations all get buried under the stucco .	所有的適應都被埋藏在壓力下 。
i could peel out a page of this palazzo to show you what's going on inside of it .	我可以把這張巴西的頁面 , 給各位看看它在裡面發生什麼事 。
but more importantly , i could also show you what it looks like at the corner of one of those magnificent buildings with all the massive stone blocks , or the fake stone blocks done with brick and stucco , which is more often the case .	但更重要的是 , 我也能給各位看些什麼樣子之一 , 那些偉大的石頭部 , 或是假裝石頭的石塊 , 或是假裝石石油阻擋 , 更常常見 。
so it becomes slightly threedimensional .	所以它變成了三維空間 。
i could take you down one of those narrow little streets into one of those surprising piazzas by using a double gate fold double foldout page which , if you were like me reading a popup book as a child , you hopefully stick your head into .	我可以把你們帶到其中一個狹窄的街坊之一 , 用一個懷疑的小街頭之一 , 用一個懷疑的摺紙頁 , 如果你喜歡我在讀一本小的書裡 , 你希望我可以把你的頭看成一本書 。
you wrap the pages around your head and are in that piazza for that brief period of time .	你的腦袋裡寫下的頁面 , 在西亞茲海岸的頁面 。
and i've really not done anything much more complicated than make foldout pages .	我沒有做任何事情比製造摺疊頁面 。
but then i thought , maybe i could be simpler here .	但我想 , 也許我可以很簡單 。
let's look at the pantheon and the piazza della rotonda in front of it .	讓我們來看看監獄和巴西的巴西和巴西的前面 。
here's a book completely wide open .	這是一本書完全開放 。
ok , if i don't open the book the whole way , if i just open it 90 degrees , we're looking down the front of the pantheon , and we're looking sort of at the top , more or less down on the square .	好 , 如果我不打開書書本 , 如果我打開了90度 , 我們就會看著監獄的前面 , 我們就在看看頂端 , 更低 , 或少少於下方 。
and if i turn the book the other way , we're looking across the square at the front of the pantheon .	如果我轉向另一方面 , 我們就在監獄前面的書面 。
no foldouts , no tricks just a book that isn't open the whole way .	沒有任何摺疊 , 沒有一本書 , 這本書不是開放整個方式 。
that seemed promising . i thought , maybe i'll do it inside and i can even combine the foldouts with the only partially opened book .	這似乎很驕傲 , 我想 , 也許我會在內部 , 我甚至可以把摺疊起來 , 只有一部分開放書 。
so we get inside the pantheon and it grows and so on and so forth .	所以 , 我們進入監獄 , 成長、成長、等等等等 。
and i thought , maybe i'm on the right track , but it sort of lost its human quality .	我想 , 也許我在右邊的軌道上 , 但它有點失去了人類品質 。
so i went back to the notion of story , which is always a good thing to have if you're trying to get people to pay attention to a book and pick up information along the way .	所以 , 我回到這個故事 , 總是很棒的事 , 如果你試著讓人們注意到一本書 , 拿起一本書 , 拿起信息 。
" pigeon's progress " struck me as a catchy title .	「 pigeon的進步 」 的進步 。
if it was a homing pigeon , it would be called " homer's odyssey . "	假如這是一場令人驚訝的鴿子 , 它稱之為 「 家園 」
but it was the journey of the . . .	但這就是這個旅程的旅程 。
i mean , if a title works , use it . but it would be a journey that went through rome and showed all the things that i like about rome .	我的意思是 , 如果一個編輯員工 , 用它 , 它就會成為我喜歡羅馬的旅程 , 顯示我喜歡羅馬 。
it's a pigeon sitting on top of a church .	這是一間教堂的頂端 。
goes off during the day and does normal pigeon stuff . comes back , the whole place is covered with scaffolding and green netting and there's no way this pigeon can get home .	在那天之後 , 正常的啟發 , 整個地方被診斷、綠色、綠色、綠色、綠色、綠色、沒有方法可以回家 。
so it's a homeless pigeon now and it's going to have to find another place to live , and that allows me to go through my catalog of favorite things , and we start with the tall ones and so on .	這是個無家的靈感 , 它將要找到另一個地方 , 讓我能找到另一個地方 , 讓我走進我最喜歡的東西 , 所以我們從目標開始 。
maybe it has to go back and live with family members ; that's not always a good thing , but it does sort of bring pigeons together again .	也許它必須回到家裡 , 和家人一起生活 , 但它也不一定是好事 , 但它確實是帶著靈感 。
and i thought , that's sort of interesting , but maybe there's a person who should be involved in this in some way .	我想 , 這有點有趣的 , 但也許還有一個人應該參與這種方式 。
so i kind of came up with this old guy who spends his life looking after sick pigeons .	所以 , 我和這個老人分享他的人生 , 他花了他的人生 , 看著病患的病患 。
he'll go anywhere to get them dangerous places and whatnot and they become really friends with this guy , and learn to do tricks for him and entertain him at lunchtime and stuff like that .	他會走到任何地方 , 讓他們感到危險的地方 , 並且學習去做這個傢伙 , 學會幫他和娛樂 , 來幫他和娛樂 。
there's a real bond that develops between this old man and these pigeons .	有一個真實的老人和這些靈感之間的發展 。
but unfortunately he gets sick . he gets really sick at the end of the story .	但不幸的是 , 他會生病了 , 他得到真的很生病 。
he's taught them to spell his name , which is aldo .	他教導他們去說他的名字 , 這是aldododododo 。
they show up one day after three or four days of not seeing him he lives in this little garret and they spell his name and fly around .	他們在三到四天後 , 看不到他生活在這個小垃圾上 , 他們會說他的名字 , 然後飛到周圍 。
and he finally gets enough strength together to climb up the ladder onto the roof , and all the pigeons , a la red balloon , are there waiting for him and they carry him off over the walls of the city .	他終於得到足夠的力量 , 一起爬上屋頂上 , 所有的靈感 , 所有的靈感都在等著他 , 等著他 , 等著他 , 等著他 , 帶他走了城市的牆壁 。
and i forgot to mention this: whenever he lost a pigeon , he would take that pigeon out beyond the walls of the city .	我忘記這一點:當他失去了一顆鴿子 , 他會帶出那座城市的牆壁壁牆牆壁牆壁壁壁的牆壁牆牆壁壁壁 。
in the old roman custom , the dead were never buried within the walls .	在舊羅曼公園裡 , 死人從牆壁裡燒掉 。
and i thought that's a really cheery story .	我想這是個非常便宜的故事 。
. that's really going to go a long way .	這將會是長期的 。
so anyway , i went through . . . and again , if packaging doesn't work and if the stories aren't going anywhere , i just come up with titles and hope that a title will sort of kick me off in the right direction .	所以 , 總之 , 我再次走過 。 假如 , 如果故事沒有地方在任何地方 , 我剛剛剛剛來跟ttlestle , 希望這位編輯會讓我脫下去 。
and sometimes it does focus me enough and i'll even do a title page .	有時它會讓我夠專注 , 我甚至會做一頁 。
so , these are all title pages that eventually led me to the solution i settled on , which is the story of a young woman who sends a message on a homing pigeon she lives outside the walls of the city of rome to someone in the city .	所以 , 這些都是全部的編輯 , 最終帶我到解決方案的解決方案 , 這是一位年輕女女士的故事的故事 , 她在城市的牆壁裡 。
and the pigeon is flying down above the appian way here .	而pigeon正在飛機上飛行器 。
you can see the tombs and pines and so on and so forth along the way .	你可以看到mb和ine等等等等
if you see the red line , you are seeing the trail of the pigeon ; if you don't see the red line , you are the pigeon .	如果你看到紅線線線 , 你可以看到這條線的軌跡 ; 如果你看紅線 , 你是鴿子 。
and it becomes necessary and possible , at this point , to try to convey what that sense would be like of flying over the city without actually moving .	它變成必要的必要和可能 , 在這個時刻 , 試著揭露這個感覺會是什麼樣子 , 沒有移動 。
past the pyramid of cestius these will seem very familiar to you , even if you haven't been to rome recently past the gatehouse .	過去的心理治療方式似乎很熟悉 , 即使你沒有被浪漫 , 即使你沒有被浪漫 。
this is something that's a little bit unusual .	這是有點不尋常的東西 。
this pigeon does something that most homing pigeons do not do: it takes the scenic route , which was a device that i felt was necessary to actually extend this book beyond about four pages .	這個pigeon做了一件最令人驚訝的事:它把螢幕放在螢幕上 , 那是我感覺到的裝置 , 那是我必要的裝置 。
so , we circle around the coliseum , past the church of santa maria in cosmedin and the temple of hercules towards the river .	所以 , 我們繞過哥倫比亞的教堂 , 過去的教堂和寺廟的寺廟 , 以及溫度的溫度 。
we almost collide with the cornice of the palazzo farnese designed by michelangelo , built of stone taken from the coliseum narrow escape .	我們幾乎和巴西的珊瑚礁 , 由米蘭設計的角落 , 由米蘭設計的石頭 , 從哥倫敦納爾的石頭 。
we swoop down over the campo de' fiori .	我們在加坡下游 ,
this is one of those things i show to my students because it's a complete bastardization a denial of any rules of perspective .	這是我給我的學生之一 , 因為這是一個完全蝙蝠的規則之一 。
the only rule of perspective that i think matters is if it looks believable , you've succeeded .	我想重要的觀點是 , 如果它看起來看起來很可信 , 你成功了 。
but you try and figure out where the vanishing points meet here ; a couple are on mars and a couple of others in cremona .	但你試著找出這裡的優勢點 , 幾點是火星和其他在crea和幾個其他在crea 。
but into the piazza in front of santa maria della pace , where invariably a soccer game is going on , and we're hit by a soccer ball .	但在聖馬利亞的前面 , 在聖塔利亞的遊戲中 , 很不可思議的遊戲正在發生 , 而我們也沒被cerball 。
now this is a terrible illustration of being hit by a soccer ball .	這是個很糟糕的幻燈片 。
i have all the pieces: there's santa maria della pace , there's a soccer ball , there's a little bit of a bird's wing nothing's happening , so i had to rethink it .	我有所有的作品:舊馬利亞 , 有一小塊鳥類 , 有一塊鳥類 , 有一點鳥類的翅膀 , 所以我得要重新重新重新思考它 。
and if you do want to see santa maria della pace , these books are really flexible , incredibly interactive just turn it around and look at it the other way .	如果你想看看聖塔馬亞的巴勒斯 , 這些書本真的很棒 , 這些書真的非常互動 , 看它 。
through the alley , we can see the impact is captured in the red line .	在紅線上 , 我們可以看到影響的是紅線的捕捉 。
and then bird manages to pull itself together past this medieval tower one of the few remaining medieval towers towards the church of sant'agnese and around the dome looking down into piazza navona which we've already mentioned and seen and flown over a couple of times ; there's the bernini statue of the four rivers and then past the wonderful borromini sant'ivo , stopping just long enough on the 26foot diameter oculus of the pantheon to catch our breath .	接著 , 鳥經常把自己拼湊起來 , 把這個媒介帶到舊金山的教堂 , 到舊金山的教堂 , 走進巴西的教堂 , 看看我們已經被提到的巴西 , 看到了我們已經提到 , 看到了幾倍 , 然後花了四倍的時間 。
and then we can swoop inside and around ; and because we're flying , we don't really have to worry about gravity at this particular moment in time , so this drawing can be oriented in any way on the page .	然後我們可以在裡面游泳 , 因為我們正在飛翔 , 我們不需要擔心重力的重力 , 所以這幅畫可以是對重力的 。
we get a little exuberant as we pass gesu ; it's not surprising to sort of mimic the architecture in this way .	我們得到了一個小額外的小額 , 不是令人驚訝的建築師 。
past the wonderful wall filled with the juxtaposition that i was talking about ; beautiful carvings set into the walls above the neon " ristorante " sign , and so on .	過去我和xta的牆壁裡充滿美麗的牆壁裡 , 漂亮的車子裡 , 漂亮的 「 監獄 」 等等 。
and eventually , we arrive at the courtyard of the palazzo , which is our destination .	最後 , 我們在巴西的法庭園裡 , 這是我們的描述 。
straight up through the courtyard into a little window into the attic , where somebody is working at the drawing board .	直到一個小窗戶裡 , 直到一個小窗戶裡 , 有人在畫板上工作 。
he removes the message from the leg of the bird ; this is what it says .	他從鳥類身上移除的訊息 , 這是它所說的 。
as we look at the drawing board , we see what he's working on is , in fact , a map of the journey that the pigeon has just taken , and the red line extends through all the sights .	如我們看著畫板 , 我們看到他正在做什麼 , 事實上 , 事實上 , 鴿子的地圖 , 事實上 , 鴿子的地圖 。
and if you want the information , so that we complete this cycle of understanding , all you have to do is read these paragraphs .	如果你想要資訊 , 所以我們完成了這個循環的循環 , 所有人都必須閱讀這些矛盾 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝各位 。
mit researcher skylar tibbits works on selfassembly the idea that instead of building something , we can create materials that build themselves , much the way a strand of dna zips itself together . it's a big concept at early stages ; tibbits shows us three inthelab projects that hint at what a selfassembling future might look like .	麻省理工學家kyolbbit在自我組合的概念 , 而不是建築物 , 我們可以創造自己的材料 , 我們能創造自己的材料 , 和dnazipipips本身 , 它是一個很大的概念 ; 抗議 , 組織顯示我們三種內的未來 。
skylar tibbits: can we make things that make themselves ?	天空抗議:我們可以讓自己做出自己自己做的事嗎 ?
today i'd like to show you the future of the way we make things .	今天我要向各位展示我們製作的東西 。
i believe that soon our buildings and machines will be selfassembling , replicating and repairing themselves .	我相信 , 我們的建築和機器會自我組合、複製、複製、複製和複製自己 。
so i'm going to show you what i believe is the current state of manufacturing , and then compare that to some natural systems .	所以 , 我要給各位看我相信的是製造製造製造力的狀態 , 然後把這些自然系統放在某些自然系統中 。
so in the current state of manufacturing , we have skyscrapers two and a half years [of assembly time] , 500 , 000 to a million parts , fairly complex , new , exciting technologies in steel , concrete , glass .	所以在製造製造業狀態中 , 我們有天空工匠兩到半年半 , 大約有500萬個部分 , 很複雜 , 非常複雜 , 很興奮 , 很興奮 , 冰川 。
we have exciting machines that can take us into space five years [of assembly time] , 2 . 5 million parts .	我們有很興奮的機器 , 可以帶我們到五年內 , 2.5千萬個部分 。
but on the other side , if you look at the natural systems , we have proteins that have two million types , can fold in 10 , 000 nanoseconds , or dna with three billion base pairs we can replicate in roughly an hour .	但另一方面 , 如果你仔細觀察自然系統 , 我們有蛋白質有兩百萬種類 , 可以在一萬奈米的dna中 , 或dna , dna有三億個鹼基 。
so there's all of this complexity in our natural systems , but they're extremely efficient , far more efficient than anything we can build , far more complex than anything we can build .	所以 , 在我們的自然系統中 , 有許多複雜性 , 但他們非常有效率 , 比我們所能建造的更複雜 , 比我們所能建造的更複雜 。
they're far more efficient in terms of energy .	他們比能源更有效率 。
they hardly ever make mistakes .	他們不可能犯錯的錯誤 。
and they can repair themselves for longevity .	他們可以重複自己長久以來 。
so there's something super interesting about natural systems .	所以 , 自然系統有很有趣的東西 。
and if we can translate that into our built environment , then there's some exciting potential for the way that we build things .	如果我們能把這些東西轉換成我們的建築物 , 那麼有一些令人興奮的潛力 。
and i think the key to that is selfassembly .	我認為關鍵是自我組合的關鍵 。
so if we want to utilize selfassembly in our physical environment , i think there's four key factors .	所以如果我們想要把自我組成自我組合 , 我想有四個關鍵因素 。
the first is that we need to decode all of the complexity of what we want to build so our buildings and machines .	首先 , 我們需要確保所有我們想要建造的所有複雜性和機器 。
and we need to decode that into simple sequences basically the dna of how our buildings work .	我們需要確認 , 基本上是如何運作的dna , 基本上是如何運作的dna 。
then we need programmable parts that can take that sequence and use that to fold up , or reconfigure .	接著 , 我們需要程式可以用這個序列 , 用它來摺疊 , 或重建 。
we need some energy that's going to allow that to activate , allow our parts to be able to fold up from the program .	我們需要一些能量 , 使我們的部分能夠激動 , 讓我們的部分能夠從計畫中來 。
and we need some type of error correction redundancy to guarantee that we have successfully built what we want .	我們需要一些類型企業降低我們想要保證我們有成功地建構我們所想的
so i'm going to show you a number of projects that my colleagues and i at mit are working on to achieve this selfassembling future .	所以 , 我要給各位看一些我的同事 , 我在麻省理工的計劃 , 我在麻省理工的未來 。
the first two are the macrobot and decibot .	首先 , 第一兩個是雄性和決定 。
so these projects are largescale reconfigurable robots 8 ft . , 12 ft . long proteins .	所以這些項目是很大的機器人 , 12英尺 , 12英尺 , 蛋白質蛋白質 。
they're embedded with mechanical electrical devices , sensors .	他們與機械裝置機械裝置、感應器 。
you decode what you want to fold up into , into a sequence of angles so negative 120 , negative 120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , negative 120 something like that ; so a sequence of angles , or turns , and you send that sequence through the string .	你知道你想要摺疊成一個角度 , 進入一個角度的120 , 負面120 , 000 , 負面120 , 000 , 負面120、120、1、120、負面、負面、負面的序列 。
each unit takes its message so negative 120 it rotates to that , checks if it got there and then passes it to its neighbor .	每個單位都拿它訊息給負面120次 , 看看它 , 看看它 , 然後把它傳送到鄰居 。
so these are the brilliant scientists , engineers , designers that worked on this project .	這些是偉大科學家、工程師、工程師、工程師、設計師、設計師 ,
and i think it really brings to light: is this really scalable ?	我認為它真的帶給光:這真的很可怕嗎 ?
i mean , thousands of dollars , lots of man hours made to make this eightfoot robot .	我的意思是 , 數千美金 , 許多人小時來製造這八英尺機器人 。
can we really scale this up ? can we really embed robotics into every part ?	我們能否否否否否把機器人放到每一部分 ? 我們真的能把機器人放到每一部分 ?
the next one questions that and looks at passive nature , or passively trying to have reconfiguration programmability .	下一個問題 , 看看熱情大自然 , 還是真的試圖有重建計畫的能力 。
but it goes a step further , and it tries to have actual computation .	但它會變得更進一步 , 它試圖有實際計算的計算 。
it basically embeds the most fundamental building block of computing , the digital logic gate , directly into your parts .	它基本上被組成最基本的建築物 , 數位化合物 , 直接把數位化成你的部分 。
so this is a nand gate .	這是個nandgateates 。
you have one tetrahedron which is the gate that's going to do your computing , and you have two input tetrahedrons .	你有一顆廢棄物 , 就是要做你的計算 , 你有兩個輸入 , 你有兩個輸入 。
one of them is the input from the user , as you're building your bricks .	其中之一是來自使用者的輸入 , 如你建造你的麵包 。
the other one is from the previous brick that was placed .	另外一個是來自最先前的 。
and then it gives you an output in 3d space .	然後它給你一個3d空間的輸入 。
so what this means is that the user can start plugging in what they want the bricks to do .	所以這意味著 , 使用者可以開始在他們想要做什麼 。
it computes on what it was doing before and what you said you wanted it to do .	它計算在它之前所做的 , 然後你說你想要做的事 。
and now it starts moving in threedimensional space so up or down .	現在它開始在三維空間中移動到三維空間 , 或下降 。
so on the lefthand side , [1 , 1] input equals 0 output , which goes down .	所以左撇子左撇子 , 1.1 , 1.1 , 輸入到下面 。
on the righthand side , [0 , 0] input is a 1 output , which goes up .	在右撇子右邊 , 0、0、0、0、輸入 。
and so what that really means is that our structures now contain the blueprints of what we want to build .	所以這意味著我們的結構現在已經存在於我們所想要的藍圖印 。
so they have all of the information embedded in them of what was constructed .	所以他們有所有的資訊都被組成了 。
so that means that we can have some form of selfreplication .	這意味著 , 我們可以有一些自我移植 。
in this case i call it selfguided replication , because your structure contains the exact blueprints .	在這個案例中 , 我稱它為自我懷疑 , 因為你的結構存在於你的結構 。
if you have errors , you can replace a part .	如果你有更糟糕 , 你可以複製一部分 。
all the local information is embedded to tell you how to fix it .	所有地方資訊都被賦予你如何解決它 。
so you could have something that climbs along and reads it and can output at one to one .	所以 , 你可以在一邊爬上 , 閱讀它 , 可以在其中一個 。
it's directly embedded ; there's no external instructions .	直接被擁抱了 ; 沒有外交機構 。
so the last project i'll show is called biased chains , and it's probably the most exciting example that we have right now of passive selfassembly systems .	所以最後一個計畫叫做偏見鏈鏈 , 叫做偏見鏈 , 可能是最令人興奮的例子 , 我們現在有活躍的自我組合系統 。
so it takes the reconfigurability and programmability and makes it a completely passive system .	所以它把重建和程式化的能力 , 讓它完全活躍的系統 。
so basically you have a chain of elements .	所以基本上 , 你有一堆元素 。
each element is completely identical , and they're biased .	每個元素都完全相同 , 他們是偏見的 。
so each chain , or each element , wants to turn right or left .	所以每一個鏈鏈 , 或每一個元素 , 想把右邊或左邊 。
so as you assemble the chain , you're basically programming it .	所以當你把鏈結合起來 , 你基本上是程式碼 。
you're telling each unit if it should turn right or left .	你在告訴每個單位是否應該把右邊或左邊 。
so when you shake the chain , it then folds up into any configuration that you've programmed in so in this case , a spiral , or in this case , two cubes next to each other .	所以當你把鏈放到鏈上 , 然後摺疊成任何咖啡廳裡 , 你就在這個例子中 , 一個奇蹟 , 或者在這個例子中 , 兩根根方 。
so you can basically program any threedimensional shape or onedimensional , twodimensional up into this chain completely passively .	你可以基本上設計任何三維空間形狀或受害者的形狀 , 兩維空間中完全活下來 。
so what does this tell us about the future ?	所以 , 這告訴我們未來是什麼 ?
i think that it's telling us that there's new possibilities for selfassembly , replication , repair in our physical structures , our buildings , machines .	我認為這是告訴我們 , 有新的可能性 , 有新的可能性 , 複製、複製、複製、修復、機器 。
there's new programmability in these parts .	在這些部分的新計畫中 , 有新的計畫 。
and from that you have new possibilities for computing .	從此外 , 你有新的可能性 。
we'll have spatial computing .	我們會有數量計算機 。
imagine if our buildings , our bridges , machines , all of our bricks could actually compute .	想像一下 , 如果我們的橋樑、機器、機器、機器 , 都能計算 。
that's amazing parallel and distributed computing power , new design possibilities .	這很棒的悖論和分佈力 , 新設計可能性 , 新的設計可能性 。
so it's exciting potential for this .	所以它很興奮的潛力 。
so i think these projects i've showed here are just a tiny step towards this future , if we implement these new technologies for a new selfassembling world .	所以我認為這些項目的只是一個小步驟 , 如果我們提升這些新科技 , 若我們改善這些新的自我組合 。
we've been to the moon , we've mapped the continents , we've even been to the deepest point in the ocean twice . what's left for the next generation to explore ? biologist and explorer nathan wolfe suggests this answer: almost everything . and we can start , he says , with the world of the unseeably small .	我們一直在月球上 , 我們已經準備好了 , 我們甚至一直在海洋中最深的點點子 , 在下一代探索中最深的點子是什麼 ? 生物學家和探索者說 , 幾乎可以開始 , 他說 , 我們能開始說 , 一切 。
biodiversity , exploration , microbiology , science	生物多樣性、探索、微生物、微生物、科學、科學、科學、
nathan wolfe: what's left to explore ?	nathanwolff:剩下什麼 ?
recently i visited beloit , wisconsin .	最近我訪問的臥室、智慧 。
and i was there to honor a great 20th century explorer , roy chapman andrews .	我在20世紀探險家探險家 , 羅爾•查爾曼和reww 。
during his time at the american museum of natural history , andrews led a range of expeditions to uncharted regions , like here in the gobi desert .	在他的天文歷史博物館時期 , 導致了一群令人驚訝的區域 , 導致了一大堆未被逮捕的區域 。
he was quite a figure .	他真的很清楚 。
he was later , it's said , the basis of the indiana jones character .	他後來說 , 印度瓊斯說 , 印度約翰角色 。
and when i was in beloit , wisconsin , i gave a public lecture to a group of middle school students .	當我在床上的時候 , 我給了一個公共課程 , 給一個公共學校學生 。
and i'm here to tell you , if there's anything more intimidating than talking here at ted , it'll be trying to hold the attention of a group of a thousand 12yearolds for a 45minute lecture .	我來這裡來告訴各位 , 如果有更多的害怕 , 比ted演講的注意力 , 它會試著把一千二歲的注意力放在一個45分鐘內 。
at the end of the lecture they asked a number of questions , but there was one that's really stuck with me since then .	在那之後 , 他們問了一個問題 , 但有一件事真的很困惑 。
there was a young girl who stood up , and she asked the question: " where should we explore ? "	有一位年輕女孩站起來 , 她問這個問題: 「 我們該探索哪裡 ? 」
i think there's a sense that many of us have that the great age of exploration on earth is over , that for the next generation they're going to have to go to outer space or the deepest oceans in order to find something significant to explore .	我認為 , 很多人有這麼多的探索 , 地球上一代探索 , 接下來一代他們必須去外太空或最深的海洋 , 才能找到一些巨大的海洋 。
but is that really the case ?	但這真的是這樣呢 ?
is there really nowhere significant for us to explore left here on earth ?	對我們來說 , 地球上有很大的意義嗎 ?
it sort of made me think back to one of my favorite explorers in the history of biology .	這讓我想回到生物學歷史中最喜歡的探險家之一 。
this is an explorer of the unseen world , martinus beijerinck .	這是一個探索未知的世界的探索者 , 馬丁•貝爾•貝克 。
so beijerinck set out to discover the cause of tobacco mosaic disease .	所以 , 貝爾•賈斯斯坦發現菸草疾病的原因 。
what he did is he took the infected juice from tobacco plants and he would filter it through smaller and smaller filters .	他所做的就是他把感染到菸草廠 , 他會用更小的濾器 , 用更小的濾器 。
and he reached the point where he felt that there must be something out there that was smaller than the smallest forms of life that were ever known bacteria , at the time .	他接觸到他覺得有一定比最小的生命比最小的形式 , 比起最小的生命形式 。
he came up with a name for his mystery agent .	他來找了一位神秘的名字 。
he called it the virus latin for " poison . "	他稱它為 「 毒素 」 。
and in uncovering viruses , beijerinck really opened this entirely new world for us .	在未見過病毒、貝爾•賈斯汀真的開放了這個全新的世界 , 對我們來說 。
we now know that viruses make up the majority of the genetic information on our planet , more than the genetic information of all other forms of life combined .	我們現在知道病毒的主要資訊 , 比我們地球上大部分的基因資訊 , 比其他其他形式的基因資訊 , 比起其他形式 。
and obviously there's been tremendous practical applications associated with this world things like the eradication of smallpox , the advent of a vaccine against cervical cancer , which we now know is mostly caused by human papillomavirus .	很明顯地 , 有著很大的實際應用應用程式 , 像這個世界各地的疫苗 , 例如疫苗所造成的疫苗 , 我們現在知道大部分是人類武器的武器 。
and beijerinck's discovery , this was not something that occurred 500 years ago .	在500年前jerinck的發現 , 這不是發生發生發生的事 。
it was a little over 100 years ago that beijerinck discovered viruses .	一百年前 , 亞瑟•jerinck發現病毒的病毒 。
so basically we had automobiles , but we were unaware of the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	所以基本上 , 我們有自動汽車 , 但我們也不知道我們地球上最慷慨的基因資訊 。
we now have these amazing tools to allow us to explore the unseen world things like deep sequencing , which allow us to do much more than just skim the surface and look at individual genomes from a particular species , but to look at entire metagenomes , the communities of teeming microorganisms in , on and around us and to document all of the genetic information in these species .	我們現在有這些令人驚訝的工具 , 讓我們探索獨立的世界 , 像是深密秘密的特徵 , 看看個人基因組組組 , 但看看整個金屬 , 從一個特別的物種 , 我們周圍各地的基因組 , 在我們周圍的基因組中 。
we can apply these techniques to things from soil to skin and everything in between .	我們可以用土壤來應用這些技術從土壤到皮膚和一切之間 。
in my organization we now do this on a regular basis to identify the causes of outbreaks that are unclear exactly what causes them .	在我的組織裡 , 我們現在正在做這件事 , 去辨識出出的原因 , 不確定是什麼原因 。
and just to give you a sense of how this works , imagine that we took a nasal swab from every single one of you .	為了給各位一個了解這個作品如何運作 , 想像我們把一個奈米爾從你每一個人身上得到的美麗 。
and this is something we commonly do to look for respiratory viruses like influenza .	這是我們常常常做的事 , 我們通常要找回像流感病毒一樣 。
the first thing we would see is a tremendous amount of genetic information .	第一件事 , 我們會看到一個非常大的基因資訊 。
and if we started looking into that genetic information , we'd see a number of usual suspects out there of course , a lot of human genetic information , but also bacterial and viral information , mostly from things that are completely harmless within your nose .	如果我們開始研究這個基因資訊 , 我們就會看到很多常見的結果 , 當然 , 許多人類基因資訊 , 但也有細菌和視覺資訊 , 大部分是完全無害的 。
but we'd also see something very , very surprising .	但我們也看到了一些非常令人驚訝的事 。
as we started to look at this information , we would see that about 20 percent of the genetic information in your nose doesn't match anything that we've ever seen before no plant , animal , fungus , virus or bacteria .	當我們開始觀察這個資訊時 , 我們會看到大約20%的基因資訊 , 在鼻子裡 , 病毒和細菌 。
basically we have no clue what this is .	基本上 , 我們沒有包含了什麼 。
and for the small group of us who actually study this kind of data , a few of us have actually begun to call this information biological dark matter .	對我們來說 , 對於這些數據的小群體來說 , 我們當中有些人有同意稱之為生物暗物質暗物質暗物質 。
we know it's not anything that we've seen before ; it's sort of the equivalent of an uncharted continent right within our own genetic information .	我們知道這不是我們以前見過的 ; 它有點像是一個未知的大陸中 , 它有點像是我們基因資訊中的基因資訊 。
and there's a lot of it .	這裡有很多東西 。
if you think 20 percent of genetic information in your nose is a lot of biological dark matter , if we looked at your gut , up to 40 or 50 percent of that information is biological dark matter .	如果你認為 , 在你的鼻子裡有20%的基因信息 , 如果我們仔細觀察你的腸道 , 到40%或50%的資訊是生物暗物質暗物質 。
and even in the relatively sterile blood , around one to two percent of this information is dark matter can't be classified , can't be typed or matched with anything we've seen before .	即使在相對的血液中 , 大約有百分之二的資訊是黑暗物質 , 無法被辨識到我們之前所見的 。
at first we thought that perhaps this was artifact .	首先 , 我們認為也許這是人工智慧 。
these deep sequencing tools are relatively new .	這些深序列工具是相對的 。
but as they become more and more accurate , we've determined that this information is a form of life , or at least some of it is a form of life .	但當他們變得更加精確 , 我們已經決定了這資訊是生命的形式 , 或者至少有些是生命的形式 。
and while the hypotheses for explaining the existence of biological dark matter are really only in their infancy , there's a very , very exciting possibility that exists: that buried in this life , in this genetic information , are signatures of as of yet unidentified life .	雖然假如解釋一下生物暗物質存在的存在 , 其實只有在他們的基礎中 , 有非常令人興奮的可能性 , 非常令人興奮的可能性:在這個生命中 , 在這個基因信息中 , 在這個基因信息中 , 在這個基因信息中 。
that as we explore these strings of a's , t's , c's and g's , we may uncover a completely new class of life that , like beijerinck , will fundamentally change the way that we think about the nature of biology .	當我們探索這些風格時 , t是 , tt是 , c是 , 我們可能完全完全完全新的人生階級 , 比如阿賈斯汀 , 會完全改變我們思考生物學的方式 。
that perhaps will allow us to identify the cause of a cancer that afflicts us or identify the source of an outbreak that we aren't familiar with or perhaps create a new tool in molecular biology .	也許會讓我們能夠辨識出癌症的原因 , 或辨識出我們 , 或辨識出我們不熟悉的源頭 , 或是創造一種新的工具 , 或許創造一種新的工具 。
i'm pleased to announce that , along with colleagues at stanford and caltech and ucsf , we're currently starting an initiative to explore biological dark matter for the existence of new forms of life .	我很榮幸的是 , 在史丹佛和加州大學的同事 , 我們現在現在正在開始探索生物暗示生物暗物質的存在 , 我們目前正在開始探索生物暗物質的存在 。
a little over a hundred years ago , people were unaware of viruses , the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	一百年前 , 人們都不知道病毒的形式 , 生命的形式 , 讓地球上大部分的基因信息 。
a hundred years from now , people may marvel that we were perhaps completely unaware of a new class of life that literally was right under our noses .	一百年來 , 人們可能結婚 , 我們可能完全無法意識到我們鼻子裡的新階級 。
it's true , we may have charted all the continents on the planet and we may have discovered all the mammals that are out there , but that doesn't mean that there's nothing left to explore on earth .	真的 , 我們可能已經在地球上所有的大陸上 , 我們可能發現所有的哺乳類動物都在那裡 , 但這並不意味著什麼都沒有離開地球上 。
beijerinck and his kind provide an important lesson for the next generation of explorers people like that young girl from beloit , wisconsin .	貝爾•賈斯汀和他提供了一個很重要的課程師 , 像那些來自貝爾、智慧的年輕女孩 。
and i think if we phrase that lesson , it's something like this: don't assume that what we currently think is out there is the full story .	我想如果我們用phraphraphra , 它就像這樣:不要假設我們目前所認為的就是全面的故事 。
go after the dark matter in whatever field you choose to explore .	在任何領域中 , 不論你選擇去探索 。
there are unknowns all around us and they're just waiting to be discovered .	我們周圍都沒有知覺 , 他們只是等待被發現 。
legendary scientist david deutsch puts theoretical physics on the back burner to discuss a more urgent matter: the survival of our species . the first step toward solving global warming , he says , is to admit that we have a problem .	法律科學家大衛物理學家大衛在背後的燃燒 , 來討論更多的急診:我們物種生存的生存 , 第一個步驟 , 他說 , 是要承認我們有問題 。
climate change , cosmos , culture , environment , global issues , physics , science , technology , universe	氣候變遷、文化、環境、全球議題、物理、科學、科學、宇宙、科學、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙 。
david deutsch on our place in the cosmos	大衛在我們的宇宙裡 。
we've been told to go out on a limb and say something surprising .	我們一直被告知要走出來 , 說一些令人驚訝的事 。
so i'll try and do that , but i want to start with two things that everyone already knows .	所以我要試著做這件事 , 但我想要從兩件事開始 , 每個人都已經知道 。
and the first one , in fact , is something that has been known for most of recorded history .	事實上 , 第一 , 事實上 , 已經知道歷史上大部分記錄的歷史 。
and that is that the planet earth , or the solar system , or our environment or whatever , is uniquely suited to sustain our evolution or creation , as it used to be thought and our present existence , and most important , our future survival .	這就是地球 , 或太陽系系統 , 或者我們的環境 , 或是我們的環境 , 獨特地維持我們的演化或創意 , 就像它一樣 , 我們的未來存活 , 最重要的 , 我們的未來存活 。
nowadays this idea has a dramatic name: spaceship earth .	現在這個想法有一個很戲劇的名字:太空船 。
and the idea there is that outside the spaceship , the universe is implacably hostile , and inside is all we have , all we depend on .	重點是 , 在太空船上 , 宇宙是不可能的 , 我們都有 , 我們都有 , 我們都依賴 。
and we only get the one chance: if we mess up our spaceship , we've got nowhere else to go .	我們只能得到一個機會:如果我們在太空船上 , 我們就已經有其他地方了 。
now , the second thing that everyone already knows is that contrary to what was believed for most of human history , human beings are not , in fact , the hub of existence .	現在 , 大家已經知道 , 相反的是 , 人類歷史上大部分的人都知道 , 人類歷史並非如此 , 事實上 , 而是存在於存在 。
as stephen hawking famously said , we're just a chemical scum on the surface of a typical planet that's in orbit around a typical star , which is on the outskirts of a typical galaxy , and so on .	隨著史蒂芬•哈林說 , 我們只是一個化學物質的表面上 , 我們只是一個典型的星球表面上 , 這是典型的星球表面 。
now the first of those two things that everyone knows is kind of saying that we're at a very untypical place , uniquely suited and so on , and the second one is saying that we're at a typical place .	這兩個人都知道我們在一個非常獨特的地方 , 就是說我們在一個非常獨特的地方 , 所以第二個是說 , 我們在一個典型的地方 。
and especially if you regard these two as deep truths to live by and to inform your life decisions , then they seem a little bit to conflict with each other .	尤其是如果你認同這兩者的真相 , 讓人生變得更深刻 , 然後他們似乎有點衝突 , 然後他們似乎有點衝突 。
but that doesn't prevent them from both being completely false .	但這並不預防他們從完全合法中得到的 。
and they are . so let me start with the second one: typical . well is this a typical place ? well , let's look around , you know , and look in a random direction , and we see a wall , and chemical scum and that's not typical of the universe at all .	他們是這樣 。 所以 , 讓我從第二個:典型的 。 好吧 , 我們來看看 , 看看 , 隨機的方向來看 , 看看一個牆壁 , 我們看到一個牆 , 看看一個牆壁 , 而化學螢光是宇宙的典型 。
all you've got to do is go a few hundred miles in that same direction and look back , and you won't see any walls or chemical scum at all all you see is a blue planet . and if you go further than that , you'll see the sun , the solar system , and the stars and so on .	你要做的就是要花幾百英哩 , 再回來 , 你看不到任何牆壁或化學雕塑 , 你都看到藍色星星球 , 如果你去看太陽 , 太陽系、太陽系、太陽系、太陽系、太陽系、太陽系等等 。
but that's still not typical of the universe , because stars come in galaxies .	但這個宇宙仍然沒有典型的典型 , 因為星星星星系會出現 。
and most places in the universe , a typical place in the universe , is nowhere near any galaxies .	在宇宙中大部分地方 , 一個典型的地方 , 有一個典型的地方 , 現在幾乎沒有任何銀河系 。
so let's go out further , till we're outside the galaxy , and look back , and yeah , there's the huge galaxy with spiral arms laid out in front of us .	所以 , 讓我們來看看銀河系 , 我們在銀河系裡 , 回來 , 回來 , 回來 , 再回來 , 我們面前有巨大的銀河系 。
and at this point we've come 100 , 000 light years from here .	在這個時候 , 我們來到這裡 , 來自這裡 。
but we're still nowhere near a typical place in the universe .	但我們仍然在宇宙中有典型的地方 。
to get to a typical place , you've got to go 1 , 000 times as far as that into intergalactic space .	為了達到一個典型的地方 , 你必須走到一千倍 , 隨著它進入國際空間 。
and so what does that look like ? typical .	那看起來是什麼樣子 ? 典型 。
what does a typical place in the universe look like ?	宇宙中的典型的地方是什麼樣子 ?
well , at enormous expense , ted has arranged a highresolution immersion virtual reality rendering of intergalactic space the view from intergalactic space .	嗯 , ted有很大的昂貴 , ted已經被逮捕了一種高解析度的虛擬實境 , 從國際空間的觀點來看 , 來自國際空間的觀點 。
so can we have the lights off , please , so we can see it ?	所以 , 我們能否看見光線 , 請看它嗎 ?
well , not quite , not quite perfect you see , in intergalactic space intergalactic space is completely dark , pitch dark .	嗯 , 不太太完美了 , 在國際空間空間中 , 完全是黑暗、頁面的黑暗 。
it's so dark that if you were to be looking at the nearest star to you , and that star were to explode as a supernova , and you were to be staring directly at it at the moment when its light reached you , you still wouldn't be able to see even a glimmer .	很黑暗 , 如果你仔細觀察最近恆星的星 , 那星星星就會被視為一個超級恐怖 , 而你要盯著它時 , 你仍然無法看見它 , 甚至無法看見一個玻璃 。
that's how big and how dark the universe is .	這就是宇宙的多大 , 黑暗宇宙是多麼大 ,
and that's despite the fact that a supernova is so bright , so brilliant an event , that it would kill you stone dead at a range of several light years .	儘管如此 , 超級恐龍的事實是如此聰明 , 所以它會殺死你 , 它會殺死你 , 在幾年後 , 它會殺死你 。
and yet from intergalactic space , it's so far away you wouldn't even see it .	但從國際空間中來看 , 遠遠遠離你看不到 。
it's also very cold out there less than three degrees above absolute zero .	它也很冷 , 那裡有超過三度的零度 。
and it's very empty . the vacuum there is one million times less dense than the highest vacuum that our best technology on earth can currently create . so that's how different a typical place is from this place .	而它是非常尷尬的 , 隱藏了一百萬倍 , 地球上最好的科技 , 我們目前能創造出最好的技術 , 那就是從這個地方創造出來的 。
and that is how untypical this place is .	這就是這個地方的原因 。
so can we have the lights back on please ? thank you .	所以 , 我們能否把燈光回來 ? 謝謝 。
now how do we know about an environment that's so far away , and so different , and so alien , from anything we're used to ?	我們該怎麼知道這個環境很遙遠 , 如此不同 , 所以 , 從我們以前以前所未見的環境 ?
well , the earth our environment , in the form of us is creating knowledge .	我們的環境 , 在我們環境中創造知識的形式 。
well , what does that mean ? well , look out even further than we've just been i mean from here , with a telescope and you'll see things that look like stars .	嗯 , 那意味著什麼 ? 好吧 , 看看我們剛剛剛從這裡看過的望遠鏡 , 然後你會看到像恆星一樣的東西 。
they're called " quasars . " quasars originally meant quasistellar object .	他們稱之為 「 量子 」 、 「 平方 」 的意思是 「 湯瑪斯主義者 」 。
which means things that look a bit like stars . but they're not stars .	這意味著 , 看起來有點像星星星一樣 , 但它們不是恆星 。
and we know what they are . billions of years ago , and billions of light years away , the material at the center of a galaxy collapsed towards a supermassive black hole .	我們知道他們在數十億年前 , 光年後 , 光年來 , 在銀河系中心的材料中心 , 將它轉向一個超大的黑洞 。
and then intense magnetic fields directed some of the energy of that gravitational collapse . and some of the matter , back out in the form of tremendous jets which illuminated lobes with the brilliance of i think it's a trillion suns .	接著 , 強烈磁場被釋放了一些重力的能量 , 有些重要的是 , 背後的一些物質 , 回到我認為這是一個巨大的珠寶 。
now , the physics of the human brain could hardly be more unlike the physics of such a jet .	現在 , 人類大腦的物理學可以更不像嫉妒一樣 。
we couldn't survive for an instant in it . language breaks down when trying to describe what it would be like in one of those jets .	我們不能存活在它語言中存活下來時 , 語言破壞了 , 當試著描述它會是什麼樣子之一 。
it would be a bit like experiencing a supernova explosion , but at pointblank range and for millions of years at a time .	它會有點像擴大的爆炸爆炸 , 但在阿布朗克朗克朗克朗克朗克斯和數百萬年 。
and yet , that jet happened in precisely such a way that billions of years later , on the other side of the universe , some bit of chemical scum could accurately describe , and model , and predict , and explain , above all there's your reference what was happening there , in reality .	然而 , 那個嫉妒發生在數十億年後 , 在宇宙另一邊 , 有些化學螢幕上 , 有些化學螢幕可以準確地描述 , 解釋一下 , 解釋一下 , 在現實中 , 你所有的反應都在發生了什麼事 。
the one physical system , the brain , contains an accurate working model of the other the quasar .	其中一個身體系統 , 大腦、大腦、其它方案的模型模型模型模型 。
not just a superficial image of it , though it contains that as well , but an explanatory model , embodying the same mathematical relationships and the same causal structure .	不僅僅是超級化的圖像 , 它也存在了同樣的數學關係模式 , 擁抱了同樣的數學關係 , 擁抱相同的數學關係 。
now that is knowledge . and if that weren't amazing enough , the faithfulness with which the one structure resembles the other is increasing with time . that is the growth of knowledge .	知識是知識的 , 如果那不夠驚人 , 信仰與此時 , 信仰的信仰 , 那就是知識的成長 。 這就是知識的成長 。
so , the laws of physics have this special property .	所以 , 物理定律有一個特殊的特徵 。
that physical objects , as unlike each other as they could possibly be , can nevertheless embody the same mathematical and causal structure and to do it more and more so over time .	身體物體的物體 , 身為不像他們一樣 , 永遠無法用任何人的數學和營養結構 , 更久 。
so we are a chemical scum that is different . this chemical scum has universality .	所以 , 我們是個化學螢幕 , 這種化學螢幕已經不同了 。
its structure contains , with everincreasing precision , the structure of everything . this place , and not other places in the universe , is a hub which contains within itself the structural and causal essence of the whole of the rest of physical reality . and so , far from being insignificant , the fact that the laws of physics allow this , or even mandate that this can happen , is one of the most important things about the physical world .	它結構含有史以來 , 有史以來的基礎結構 , 而不是宇宙中的其他地方 , 而是在宇宙中 , 不是其他地方 , 而是在結構中 , 而是在現實中 , 農業和營養的本質 。 所以 , 農業和農業之間的存在 。
now how does the solar system and our environment , in the form of us acquire this special relationship with the rest of the universe ?	那麼太陽系和我們的環境 , 和我們的環境 , 在我們宇宙的形式中 , 其它宇宙的其他特殊關係 ?
well , one thing that's true about stephen hawking's remark i mean , it is true , but it's the wrong emphasis . one thing that's true about it is that it doesn't do it with any special physics . there's no special dispensation , no miracles involved . it does it simply with three things that we have here in abundance .	嗯 , 其中一件事情是真正的 , 是真的 , 但它是真的 , 但它是錯的 , 是錯的 , 但它是錯的 。 其中一個問題是 , 沒有特別的 , 沒有特殊的 , 沒有特殊的 , 沒有特殊的現象 。
one of them is matter , because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing . information processing is computation , computation requires a computer there's no known way of making a computer without matter .	其中一個是很重要的 , 因為知識是一種資訊處理過程的過程 , 資訊過程需要一個電腦處理 , 計算需要一台電腦 , 不管如何製造電腦 。
we also need energy to make the computer , and most important , to make the media in effect onto which we record the knowledge that we discover .	我們也需要能源來製造電腦 , 最重要的是 , 我們記錄我們發現的知識 。
and then thirdly , less tangible , but just as essential for the openended creation of knowledge , of explanations , is evidence .	第三 , 不可思議 , 但身為開放的知識 , 只是為了開放知識、解釋、證據 。
now , our environment is inundated with evidence .	我們的環境被證據和證據 。
we happen to get round to testing , let's say , newton's law of gravity about 300 years ago .	我們會去測試 , 咱們說 , 新ton是重力大約300年前的重力 。
but the evidence that we used to do that was falling down on every square meter of the earth for billions of years before that , and will continue to fall on for billions of years afterwards . and the same is true for all the other sciences .	但證據我們以前所做的證據顯示 , 地球上每平方公尺的數十億年後 , 會持續下降了數十億年後 , 同樣的是對其他科學的 。
as far as we know , evidence to discover the most fundamental truths of all the sciences is here just for the taking on our planet .	隨著我們所知 , 證據發現最基本的事實就是為了我們地球上最基本的事實 。
our location is saturated with evidence , and also with matter and energy .	我們的失敗是充滿證據的證據 , 還有物質和能量 。
out in intergalactic space , those three prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge are at their lowest possible supply .	在國際公共空間中 , 有三位預防的知識是最低的創造力 。
as i said , it's empty ; it's cold ; and it's dark out there . or is it ?	如我所說的 , 很冷 , 它是冷的 , 還是黑暗出來了 。 還是它嗎 ?
now actually , that's just another parochial misconception .	事實上 , 這只是另一個父母誤解 。
because imagine a cube out there in intergalactic space , the same size as our home , the solar system . now that cube is very empty by human standards , but that still means that it contains over a million tons of matter .	因為想像一下 , 在國際空間中 , 如我們的家園一樣大 , 太陽系的太陽系一樣大 , 但這仍然意味著它存在了超過一百萬噸的重要性 。
and a million tons is enough to make , say , a selfcontained space station , on which there's a colony of scientists that are devoted to creating an openended stream of knowledge , and so on .	一百萬噸噸的確有足夠的空間 , 說 , 一個自我持續的太空站 , 有一個科學家 , 創造出一個開放的知識 , 所以 , 等等 。
now , it's way beyond present technology to even gather the hydrogen from intergalactic space and form it into other elements and so on .	現在 , 它是敘利遜科技 , 甚至同性戀的氫氣 , 形成其他元素 , 形成其他元素和其他元素 。
but the thing is , in a comprehensible universe , if something isn't forbidden by the laws of physics , then what could possibly prevent us from doing it , other than knowing how ?	但重點是 , 在一個複雜的宇宙中 , 如果某件事並不適合我們所做的事 , 那麼可能可能可能可能預防我們從做這件事 , 不管我們做什麼 ?
in other words , it's a matter of knowledge , not resources .	換句話說 , 這是個知識 , 不是資源 。
and the same well , if we could do that we'd automatically have an energy supply , because the transmutation would be a fusion reactor and evidence ?	同樣的 , 如果我們能做到這一點 , 我們就能自動能源供應 , 因為移植反應會是核心反應爐和證據嗎 ?
well , again , it's dark out there to human senses . but all you've got to do is take a telescope , even one of presentday design , look out and you'll see the same galaxies as we do from here .	再一次 , 它是黑暗的 , 但你所有人感官設計的望遠鏡 , 甚至有一天的設計 , 你將會看到同樣的星系 。
and with a more powerful telescope , you'll be able to see stars , and planets .	隨著更強大的望遠鏡 , 你就能看到星星星星星、星球 。
in those galaxies , you'll be able to do astrophysics , and learn the laws of physics .	在那些銀河系中 , 你就能做到物理學 , 學習物理定律 。
and locally there you could build particle accelerators , and learn elementary particle physics , and chemistry , and so on .	當地 , 你可以建造粒子物理粒子 , 學習元素 , 學習元素、化學物質、化學、化學物質、等等 。
probably the hardest science to do would be biology field trips because it would take several hundred million years to get to the nearest lifebearing planet and back .	可能是生物學領域最難的科學 , 因為它會花了數百萬年的時間才能到最近的生命 。
but i have to tell you and sorry , richard but i never did like biology field trips much , and i think we can just about make do with one every few hundred million years .	但我必須告訴各位 , 抱歉 , 我從來沒有像生物學領域試驗 , 我想我們可以用一百億年的時間做 。
so in fact , intergalactic space does contain all the prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge . any such cube , anywhere in the universe , could become the same kind of hub that we are , if the knowledge of how to do so were present there .	事實上 , 國際空間沒有任何地方準備好 , 為了開放知識的創造力 , 任何地方都可以成為我們宇宙的任何地方 , 都有可能成為我們現在所處的幽默 , 如果知識是知識的知識 。
so we're not in a uniquely hospitable place .	所以 , 我們不是獨特的熱情地方 。
if intergalactic space is capable of creating an openended stream of explanations , then so is almost every other environment . so is the earth . so is a polluted earth .	如果國際公共空間可以創造出一個開放的解釋 , 那麼幾乎是其他環境 。 所以幾乎是地球 。 所以 , 地球是污染的 。 所以 , 是地球是污染的 。
and the limiting factor , there and here , is not resources , because they're plentiful , but knowledge , which is scarce .	限制工廠 , 這裡沒有資源 , 因為他們是很聰明 , 但知識 , 很害怕 。
now this cosmic knowledgebased view may and i think ought to make us feel very special . but it should also make us feel vulnerable , because it means that without the specific knowledge that's needed to survive the ongoing challenges of the universe , we won't survive them .	現在這個宇宙知識的觀點 , 我認為它可以讓我們感到非常特別特別 , 但它也應該讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為它意味著沒有特定的知識 , 因為它意味著沒有特定的知識 , 我們也無法存活下來 。
all it takes is for a supernova to go off a few light years away , and we'll all be dead !	一切都花了幾年的時間 , 我們都會死去了 , 我們都死了 !
martin rees has recently written a book about our vulnerability to all sorts of things , from astrophysics , to scientific experiments gone wrong , and most importantly to terrorism with weapons of mass destruction .	馬丁最近寫了一本關於我們脆弱的書 , 關於我們脆弱的書 , 從物理實驗中開始 , 從科學實驗中 , 最重要的是恐怖主義的武器 , 最重要的是恐怖主義 。
and he thinks that civilization has only a 50 percent chance of surviving this century .	他認為文明只有百分之五十的機會 。
i think he's going to talk about that later in the conference .	我想他會談到 , 在職業中 ,
now i don't think that probability is the right category to discuss this issue in .	現在 , 我不認為這問題是正確的 , 就是要討論這個議題 。
but i do agree with him about this . we can survive , and we can fail to survive .	但我對此感到同意 , 我們可以存活下來 , 我們可以無法存活下來 。
but it depends not on chance , but on whether we create the relevant knowledge in time .	但它依賴沒有機會 , 但無論我們創造出更好的知識 。
the danger is not at all unprecedented . species go extinct all the time .	危險並不是全部都被忽略了物種 。
civilizations end . the overwhelming majority of all species and all civilizations that have ever existed are now history .	文明結束了 。 文明結束了許多物種和所有文明的文明已經存在了歷史 。
and if we want to be the exception to that , then logically our only hope is to make use of the one feature that distinguishes our species , and our civilization , from all the others namely , our special relationship with the laws of physics , our ability to create new explanations , new knowledge to be a hub of existence .	如果我們想要成為這個展覽 , 那麼邏輯地 , 邏輯上來說 , 我們唯一希望能用一種特殊的特徵 , 從所有其他名字中 , 我們的文明 , 我們的文明 , 我們的文明 , 創造新的解釋 , 新奇的能力 。
so let me now apply this to a current controversy , not because i want to advocate any particular solution , but just to illustrate the kind of thing i mean .	所以 , 讓我來看看目前的爭議 , 不是是因為我想要投票任何特定的解決方案 , 而是要把我說明為何 。
and the controversy is global warming .	而爭議是全球暖化的 。
now , i'm a physicist , but i'm not the right kind of physicist . in regard to global warming , i'm just a layman . and the rational thing for a layman to do is to take seriously the prevailing scientific theory . and according to that theory , it's already too late to avoid a disaster .	現在 , 我是個物理學家 , 但我不是對全球暖化學家來說 , 我不是對全球暖化學家來說 , 我只是一個拉雅曼 。 我只是一個拉雅人 。 我只是一個拉雅人 , 為了一個很嚴肅地採取科學 。
because if it's true that our best option at the moment is to prevent co2 emissions with something like the kyoto protocol , with its constraints on economic activity and its enormous cost of hundreds of billions of dollars or whatever it is , then that is already a disaster by any reasonable measure .	因為如果是真的 , 我們最好的選擇是預防二氧化碳排放的二氧化碳排放 , 和它相反的經濟活動 , 相矛盾的成本 , 或不論是任何理由 。
and the actions that are advocated are not even purported to solve the problem , merely to postpone it by a little . so it's already too late to avoid it , and it probably has been too late to avoid it ever since before anyone realized the danger .	而行動的行動 , 甚至甚至沒有被送給解決問題 , 讓我幾乎無法避免它 , 所以它已經太遲了 , 所以它已經太遲了 。 所以它可能已經太遲了 。
it was probably already too late in the 1970s , when the best available scientific theory was telling us that industrial emissions were about to precipitate a new ice age in which billions would die .	在1970年代 , 理論已經太遲了 , 當理論理論上最好的理論時 , 告訴我們 , 工業排放一個新的冰箱 , 大約十億會死 。
now the lesson of that seems clear to me , and i don't know why it isn't informing public debate .	對我來說 , 似乎很明顯 , 我不知道為什麼它沒有公共辯論 。
it is that we can't always know . when we know of an impending disaster , and how to solve it at a cost less than the cost of the disaster itself , then there's not going to be much argument , really .	我們永遠無法永遠知道 。 當我們知道一個改善災難時 , 我們要如何解決它 , 如何解決災難本身的成本 , 其實沒有比災難的成本 。
but no precautions , and no precautionary principle , can avoid problems that we do not yet foresee .	但沒有預防的原則 , 沒有預防的原則 , 我們可以避免的問題 , 避免我們還沒忘記 。
hence , we need a stance of problemfixing , not just problemavoidance .	嗯 , 我們需要一個解決問題 , 不只是重建的問題 。
and it's true that an ounce of prevention equals a pound of cure , but that's only if we know what to prevent .	這是真的 , 預防平等的預防平等 , 但這只是如果我們知道如何預防 。
if you've been punched on the nose , then the science of medicine does not consist of teaching you how to avoid punches .	如果你被懲罰在鼻子上 , 那麼醫學並不會教導你如何避免教導你如何避免 。
if medical science stopped seeking cures and concentrated on prevention only , then it would achieve very little of either .	如果醫療科學停止尋找治癒和近期的治療 , 結果會達到非常少的 。
the world is buzzing at the moment with plans to force reductions in gas emissions at all costs .	全世界的計劃在氣體中被迫害 , 在氣體中的所有成本 。
it ought to be buzzing with plans to reduce the temperature , and with plans to live at the higher temperature and not at all costs , but efficiently and cheaply . and some such plans exist , things like swarms of mirrors in space to deflect the sunlight away , and encouraging aquatic organisms to eat more carbon dioxide .	它應該要用植物來減少溫度的溫度 , 用植物來減少溫度的溫度 , 而不是所有成本 , 而是適應地和適應地 。 有些植物存在於太空中 , 還有一些植物存在的生物 , 例如瑞典 , 例如瑞典的鳥類 。
at the moment , these things are fringe research .	在那一刻 , 這些事情是法國研究 。
they're not central to the human effort to face this problem , or problems in general .	他們不是最中心去面對這個問題 , 或者一般來說 , 一般來說 , 或是一般的問題 。
and with problems that we are not aware of yet , the ability to put right not the sheer good luck of avoiding indefinitely is our only hope , not just of solving problems , but of survival .	我們還沒意識到 , 我們還沒意識到的能力 , 而不是她更擅長避免的問題 , 而是我們的唯一希望 , 不只是解決問題 , 而是存活問題 。
so take two stone tablets , and carve on them .	所以 , 拿兩塊石塊桌子 , 帶著它們 。
on one of them , carve: " problems are soluble . "	其中一個人: 「 問題很幸運 。 」
and on the other one carve: " problems are inevitable . "	另一輛車上 , " 問題 " 問題 " 問題 "
how can a struggling country break out of poverty if it's trapped in a system of bad rules ? economist paul romer unveils a bold idea: " charter cities , " cityscale administrative zones governed by a coalition of nations .	如果它被困在貧困的國家破壞 , 如果它被困在一個壞規則的系統中 , 經濟學家保羅•羅•羅斯•羅斯 , 一個城市 , 《城市》 , 城市caleler的合作規則 。
business , culture , economics , global issues , politics	商業文化、經濟、政治、政治、政治、政治、政治、政治 。
paul romer's radical idea: charter cities	保羅羅•羅斯的主意:查爾市民城市 。
take a look at this picture .	看看這張照片 。
it poses a very fascinating puzzle for us .	對我們來說 , 它是非常棒的謎題 。
these african students are doing their homework under streetlights at the airport in the capital city because they don't have any electricity at home .	這些非洲學生正在做他們的家鄉 , 在資本城市的機場 , 因為他們沒有任何電力 。
now , i haven't met these particular students , but i've met students like them .	現在 , 我沒有遇到這些特別的學生 , 但我遇到像他們一樣 。
let's just pick one for example , the one in the green shirt .	舉個例子 , 綠色襯衫的其中之一 。
let's give him a name , too: nelson .	讓我們給他一個名字:nelon 。
i'll bet nelson has a cellphone .	我不會是nelon有手機手機 。
so here is the puzzle .	這是謎題 。
why is it that nelson has access to a cuttingedge technology , like the cellphone , but doesn't have access to a 100yearold technology for generating electric light in the home ?	為什麼 , nelon必須取得切割技術 , 就像手機手機手機一樣 , 但沒有能取得一百歲的科技 , 來產生電燈光 ?
now , in a word , the answer is " rules . "	現在 , 答案是: 「 規則 」
bad rules can prevent the kind of winwin solution that's available when people can bring new technologies in and make them available to someone like nelson .	壞規則可以防止新技術 , 讓人們能夠把新科技帶到像尼爾遜一樣 , 讓他們像尼爾森一樣 。
what kinds of rules ?	什麼規則呢 ?
the electric company in this nation operates under a rule , which says that it has to sell electricity at a very low , subsidized price in fact , a price that is so low it loses money on every unit that it sells .	事實上 , 在這個國家的電廠公司 , 說它必須賣電力 , 說它必須賣電力 , 事實上 , 一個價格很低 , 事實上 , 價格很低 , 每一塊錢都失去錢 。
so it has neither the resources , nor the incentives , to hook up many other users .	所以它有資源 , 沒有獎勵 , 沒有獎勵 , 讓許多其他使用者 。
the president wanted to change this rule .	總統想要改變這個規則 。
he's seen that it's possible to have a different set of rules , rules where businesses earn a small profit , so they have an incentive to sign up more customers .	他看過 , 可能有不同的規則 , 企業早期的規則 , 企業耳其有獎勵 , 所以他們有獎勵的客戶 。
that's the kind of rules that the cellphone company that nelson purchases his telephony from operates under .	這是手機公司的規則 , nelsonpurchasonpurchasonpurchasonysony的規則 。
the president has seen how those rules worked well .	總統已經看過這些規則是如何運作的 。
so he tried to change the rules for pricing on electricity , but ran into a firestorm of protest from businesses and consumers who wanted to preserve the existing subsidized rates .	所以他試圖改變電力的規則 , 但他進入商業和消費者們想要從商業和消費者 , 他們想要保持存在的種族歧視率 。
so he was stuck with rules that prevented him from letting the winwin solution help his country .	所以他被困在規則中 , 讓他從贏得的解決方案協助他國家 。
and nelson is stuck studying under the streetlights .	而nelon是在街上研究街頭的研究 。
the real challenge then , is to try to figure out how we can change rules .	真正的挑戰是 , 試著找出我們如何改變規則 。
are there some rules we can develop for changing rules ?	有一些規則我們可以為改變規則嗎 ?
i want to argue that there is a general abstract insight that we can make practical , which is that , if we can give more choices to people , and more choices to leaders who , in many countries , are also people .	我想說 , 有一個一般的抽象 , 我們能做出實際的吸引力 , 也就是說 , 如果我們能給更多選擇更多選擇 , 更多選擇領導人 , 更多選擇領導人 , 同時也就是人們 。
but , it's useful to present the opposition between these two .	但 , 這兩者之間很有用 。
because the kind of choice you might want to give to a leader , a choice like giving the president the choice to raise prices on electricity , takes away a choice that people in the economy want .	因為你想給領導者 , 你可能想要給領導者 , 像是在電力上的總統的選項 , 拿出一個選擇 , 讓人們在經濟中想要的選擇 。
they want the choice to be able to continue consuming subsidized electric power .	他們希望能夠持續消費電力的選擇 。
so if you give just to one side or the other , you'll have tension or friction .	所以如果你給一邊或另一邊 , 你就會有緊張或選舉 。
but if we can find ways to give more choices to both , that will give us a set of rules for changing rules that get us out of traps .	但如果我們可以找到方法來給我們更多選擇 , 那將會給我們一個規則 , 讓我們從陷阱中得到更多的規則 。
now , nelson also has access to the internet .	現在 , nelon也必須取得網路 。
and he says that if you want to see the damaging effects of rules , the ways that rules can keep people in the dark , look at the pictures from nasa of the earth at night .	然後他說 , 如果你想看看那條規則的效果 , 規則可以讓人們在黑暗中 , 看看地球的照片 , 看看從太空sasasasasa的照片 。
in particular check out asia .	尤其是亞洲 。
if you zoom in here , you can see north korea , in outline here , which is like a black hole compared to its neighbors .	如果你在這裡 , 你可以看到北韓 , 你可以看到北韓 , 在線上 , 就像黑洞一樣黑洞一樣 。
now , you won't be surprised to learn that the rules in north korea keep people there in the dark .	現在 , 你不會感到驚訝地了解北韓的規則 , 讓人們在黑暗中 。
but it is important to recognize that north korea and south korea started out with identical sets of rules in both the sense of laws and regulations , but also in the deeper senses of understandings , norms , culture , values and beliefs .	但重要的是 , 北韓和南韓和南韓開始從法律和南韓從法律和規則的規則 , 但同時也在更深層的理解 , 文化、文化、價值觀、文化、價值、文化、文化、價值、信仰 。
when they separated , they made choices that led to very divergent paths for their sets of rules .	當他們分開時 , 他們做出選擇的選擇 , 導致他們的規則 。
so we can change we as humans can change the rules that we use to interact with each other , for better , or for worse .	我們可以改變人類的規則 , 改變我們使用彼此互動的規則 , 更糟 , 或更糟糕 。
now let's look at another region , the caribbean .	現在讓我們看看另一個區域 , 加勒比亞 。
zoom in on haiti , in outline here .	在夏威夷 , 在夏威夷 ,
haiti is also dark , compared to its neighbor here , the dominican republic , which has about the same number of residents .	夏威夷也是黑暗的 , 與它鄰居共和黨共和黨共和黨的共和黨有關 。
both of these countries are dark compared to puerto rico , which has half as many residents as either haiti or the dominican republic .	這些國家都很黑暗 , 兩者都很黑暗 , 它有一半的援助 , 或法國共和黨共和黨共和黨共和黨的共和黨 。
what haiti warns us is that rules can be bad because governments are weak .	夏威夷戰爭是我們弱勢的規則 , 因為政府是弱勢的 。
it's not just that the rules are bad because the government is too strong and oppressive , as in north korea .	不僅僅如此 , 政府的規則很糟 , 因為政府太強壯 , 在北韓的北韓 。
so that if we want to create environments with good rules , we can't just tear down .	所以 , 如果我們想創造環境和好規則 , 我們不只會撕碎 。
we've got to find ways to build up , as well .	我們必須找到方法來建立起來 , 嗯 。
now , china dramatically demonstrates both the potential and the challenges of working with rules .	現在 , 中國的巨大地展示了潛力和規則的挑戰 。
back in the beginning of the data presented in this chart , china was the world's hightechnology leader .	回到這個鏈的開始 , 中國是高科技領導人的高科技領袖 。
chinese had pioneered technologies like steel , printing , gunpowder .	中國有獎勵 , 比如鋼琴、印刷、印刷、印刷、槍枝、槍枝 。
but the chinese never adopted , at least in that period , effective rules for encouraging the spread of those ideas a profit motive that could have encouraged the spread .	但中國從來沒有被採取 , 至少在那段期間 , 有效的規則 , 能鼓勵這些想法 , 可以鼓勵這些想法能夠鼓勵傳播 。
and they soon adopted rules which slowed down innovation and cut china off from the rest of the world .	他們很快就選擇了創新規則 , 將中國從世界各地的其他地方 。
so as other countries in the world innovated , in the sense both of developing newer technologies , but also developing newer rules , the chinese were cut off from those advances .	所以 , 隨著其他國家的創新 , 在開發新的規則 , 但也開發新的規則 , 中國開發新的規則 , 中國開發新的規則 ,
income there stayed stagnant , as it zoomed ahead in the rest of the world .	克服在那裡保持穩定 , 身為世界各地的其他地方 。
this next chart looks at more recent data .	下一個章節看看更多最近的數據 。
it plots income , average income in china as a percentage of average income in the united states .	它的收入 , 中國的平均收入 , 美國平均收入的收入 。
in the '50s and '60s you can see that it was hovering at about three percent .	在50年代 , 60年代 , 你可以看到它是河流大約有3% 。
but then in the late '70s something changed .	但在1970年代末期 , 改變了 。
growth took off in china . the chinese started catching up very quickly with the united states .	成長在中國 , 中國開始捕撈 , 中國開始捕撈非常快 。
if you go back to the map at night , you can get a clue to the process that lead to the dramatic change in rules in china .	如果你回到那晚上 , 你就能得到一個關鍵的過程 , 你就能得到一個關鍵改變在中國的規則 。
the brightest spot in china , which you can see on the edge of the outline here , is hong kong .	在中國最聰明的地點 , 你可以看到在線上看到的那邊 , 是香港的 。
hong kong was a small bit of china that , for most of the 20th century , operated under a very different set of rules than the rest of mainland china rules that were copied from working market economies of the time , and administered by the british .	荷蘭卡是中國大部份的中國大部份 , 大部分的規則 , 在一個非常不同的規則 , 比主要中國的國家經濟規則 , 由英國的經濟規則 。
in the 1950s , hong kong was a place where millions of people could go , from the mainland , to start in jobs like sewing shirts , making toys .	在1950年代 , 荷蘭卡地區 , 數百萬人可以從主要土地開始 , 從主要的角落開始 。
but , to get on a process of increasing income , increasing skills led to very rapid growth there .	但 , 為了取得收入收入的過程中 , 讓技能變得非常快速成長 。
hong kong was also the model which leaders like deng xiaoping could copy , when they decided to move all of the mainland towards the market model .	荷蘭卡也也是領導者的模型 , 當他們決定搬到市場模式時 , 當他們決定搬到市場模型時 , 最主要的陸地 。
but deng xiaoping instinctively understood the importance of offering choices to his people .	但密西西西西根的重要性地了解他人的重要性 。
so instead of forcing everyone in china to shift immediately to the market model , they proceeded by creating some special zones that could do , in a sense , what britain did: make the opportunity to go work with the market rules available to the people who wanted to opt in there .	所以 , 不是為了根據中國來改變市場模式 , 而是為了創造一些特別的zone模型 , 他們被創造出一些特殊的謎題 , 英國做的機會:讓機會和市場規則 。
so they created four special economic zones around hong kong: zones where chinese could come and work , and cities grew up very rapidly there ; also zones where foreign firms could come in and make things .	所以他們創造了四個特別的經濟區塊:zonezone在那裡 , 中國長大 , 還有城市長大 , 城市長大 , 還有城市長大 。
one of the zones next to hong kong has a city called shenzhen .	隔壁的一座城市之一 , 叫做她nzhenzhenzhen 。
in that city there is a taiwanese firm that made the iphone that many of you have , and they made it with labor from chinese who moved there to shenzhen .	在那個城市裡 , 有一台塔尼爾的iphone , 很多人從中國搬到中國搬到那裡 , 他們和勞工的勞工 。
so after the four special zones , there were 14 coastal cites that were open in the same sense , and eventually demonstrated successes in these places that people could opt in to , that they flocked to because of the advantages they offered .	所以在四個特殊的zone , 有14個共同點 , 最終在這些地方開放成功的成功 , 最終 , 人們可以在這些地方 , 人們可以選擇逃離 。
demonstrated successes there led to a consensus for a move toward the market model for the entire economy .	展示成功成功的成功 , 導致整個經濟模式 , 向整個經濟模式 , 向整個經濟模式 , 為整個經濟模式 。
now the chinese example shows us several points .	現在中國的例子顯示我們有幾點點 。
one is: preserve choices for people .	第一:為人們保存選擇 。
two: operate on the right scale .	第二:在右邊的右邊 。
if you try to change the rules in a village , you could do that , but a village would be too small to get the kinds of benefits you can get if you have millions of people all working under good rules .	如果你試著改變村莊裡的規則 , 你可以這樣做 , 但村莊可能會太小 , 但村莊會太小了 , 你可以得到數百萬人都在做好的規則 。
on the other hand , the nation is too big .	另一方面 , 國家太大了 。
if you try to change the rules in the nation , you can't give some people a chance to hold back , see how things turn out , and let others zoom ahead and try the new rules .	如果你試著改變國家的規則 , 你不能給一些人一個機會 , 看看結果結果 , 看看結果 , 讓其他zo原則 , 嘗試新的規則 。
but cities give you this opportunity to create new places , with new rules that people can opt in to .	但城市給你一個機會創造新的地方 , 用新的規則 , 人們無法在做 。
and they're large enough to get all of the benefits that we can have when millions of us work together under good rules .	而且他們大得夠好 , 才能得到數百萬人都能在好規則上百萬人一起工作 。
so the proposal is that we conceive of something called a charter city .	所以 , 建議是 , 我們意識到某件事叫做 「 查爾城市 」 。
we start with a charter that specifies all the rules required to attract the people who we'll need to build the city .	我們從一個章魚開始 , 規則都需要吸引我們建造城市的人 。
we'll need to attract the investors who will build out the infrastructure the power system , the roads , the port , the airport , the buildings .	我們需要吸引力投資者的投資者 , 他們會建立在權力系統中建造出來的基礎建設 , 道路、機場、機場、機場、機場、機場 。
you'll need to attract firms , who will come hire the people who move there first .	你需要吸引力飛行器 , 誰會來到那裡 。
and you'll need to attract families , the residents who will come and live there permanently , raise their children , get an education for their children , and get their first job .	而你需要吸引家庭、家人 , 那些會來到那裡 , 居住地 , 他們的孩子們 , 讓他們的第一份教育 , 讓他們的孩子 , 讓他們的第一份工作 。
with that charter , people will move there .	那個章節 , 人們會搬到那裡 。
the city can be built .	城市可以建造出來 。
and we can scale this model .	我們可以把這個模型放進這個模型 。
we can go do it over and over again .	我們可以再次做一次 。
to make it work , we need good rules . we've already discussed that .	為了讓它運作 , 我們需要好的規則 。 我們已經討論了 。
those are captured in the charter .	這些都是在章節中捕捉到的 。
we also need the choices for people .	我們也需要為人的選擇 。
that's really built into the model if we allow for the possibility of building cities on uninhabited land .	這真的是建立在模型中 , 如果我們允許建造城市的可能性 。
you start from uninhabited territory .	你從未知的恐怖分子開始 。
people can come live under the new charter , but no one is forced to live under it .	人們可以住在新的章節 , 但沒有人被迫害 。
the final thing we need are choices for leaders .	最後我們需要的是領導人的選擇 。
and , to achieve the kind of choices we want for leaders we need to allow for the potential for partnerships between nations: cases where nations work together , in effect , de facto , the way china and britain worked together to build , first a little enclave of the market model , and then scale it throughout china .	為了達到一個我們想要領導人的選擇 , 我們需要讓領導者之間的潛力:例如 , 國家和英國和英國之間的潛力 , 事實上 , 中國和英國和英國合作合作 , 首先 , 首先 , 首先 , 首先 , 中國和英國和英國合作 。
in a sense , britain , inadvertently , through its actions in hong kong , did more to reduce world poverty than all the aid programs that we've undertaken in the last century .	某種程度上 , 英國、英國、英國、廣告的行動 , 不僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅在過去一世紀中 , 還要減少世界貧窮的計畫 。
so if we allow for these kind of partnerships to replicate this again , we can get those kinds of benefits scaled throughout the world .	所以如果我們允許這些合作夥伴來複製這個世界 , 我們可以把這些類型的益處 。
in some cases this will involve a delegation of responsibility , a delegation of control from one country to another to take over certain kinds of administrative responsibilities .	在某些情況下 , 這會涉及責任的責任 , 一個國家控制權 , 從一個國家到另一種國家 , 以某種方式來採取行動 ,
now , when i say that , some of you are starting to think , " well , is this just bringing back colonialism ? "	當我說這句話時 , 有些人開始想: 「 嗯 , 這只是帶回殖民主義 ? 」
it's not . but it's important to recognize that the kind of emotions that come up when we start to think about these things , can get in the way , can make us pull back , can shut down our ability , and our interest in trying to explore new ideas .	這不是 。 但很重要的是要辨識這種情緒 , 當我們開始思考這些東西時 , 我們就能把這些東西帶回我們的能力 , 可以讓我們回到我們的能力 , 並試著探索新的想法 。
why is this not like colonialism ?	為什麼不喜歡殖民主義 ?
the thing that was bad about colonialism , and the thing which is residually bad in some of our aid programs , is that it involved elements of coercion and condescension .	對於殖民主義而言 , 事情是很糟糕的 , 通常是在我們援助計畫中 , 它涉及了認知的元素和認知 。
this model is all about choices , both for leaders and for the people who will live in these new places .	這模型是關於領導人 , 兩者和領導人一起生活在這些新地方 。
and , choice is the antidote to coercion and condescension .	選擇是抗議和認知和認知 。
so let's talk about how this could play out in practice .	讓我們來談談談這件事如何在練習中演奏 。
let's take a particular leader , raul castro , who is the leader of cuba .	讓我們來舉一個特別領導人、種族歧視 , 他是阿根廷的領導者 。
it must have occurred to castro that he has the chance to do for cuba what deng xiaoping did for china , but he doesn't have a hong kong there on the island in cuba .	一定要有偶爾去摧毀他有機會去拯救中國的危險 , 但他卻沒有一個熱門的韓國 , 但他沒有一個熱帶的島嶼 。
he does , though , have a little bit of light down in the south that has a very special status .	不過 , 南南部有一點光燈在南部有一個非常特別的雕像 。
there is a zone there , around guantanamo bay , where a treaty gives the united states administrative responsibility for a piece of land that's about twice the size of manhattan .	那裡有一個zonezone , 南亞的阿根廷 , 一個治療師給美國的抗議反應 , 對於曼哈頓的大小反應 。
castro goes to the prime minister of canada and says , " look , the yankees have a terrible pr problem .	克里斯特特特律是加拿拿大 , 然後說: 「 看 , yankeke有一個很糟糕的問題 。
they want to get out .	他們想出出去 。
why don't you , canada , take over ?	為什麼你不 , 加拿大 , 拿大 ?
build run a special administrative zone .	建造一個特殊的礦坑 。
allow a new city to be built up there .	讓一個新的城市建立起來 。
allow many people to come in .	讓許多人進來 。
let us have a hong kong nearby .	我們讓我們有一顆熱門的附近 。
some of my citizens will move into that city as well .	我有些公民會搬到那城市 。
others will hold back . but this will be the gateway that will connect the modern economy and the modern world to my country . "	其他人會再回來 , 但這將會成為現代經濟和現代的世界 。 」
now , where else might this model be tried ?	現在 , 其他的模型可能是嘗試的 ?
well , africa . i've talked with leaders in africa .	非洲 , 我和領導人談到非洲 。
many of them totally get the notion of a special zone that people can opt into as a rule .	許多人都無法選擇一個特殊的謎題 , 人們無法選擇成為一個規則 。
it's a rule for changing rules .	這是一個改變規則 。
it's a way to create new rules , and let people optin without coercion , and the opposition that coercion can force .	這是一種方法來創造新的規則 , 讓人們選擇沒有合作 , 而不是合作 , 而是合作的相反 。
they also totally get the idea that in some instances they can make more credible promises to longterm investors the kind of investors who will come build the port , build the roads , in a new city they can make more credible promises if they do it along with a partner nation .	他們也能知道 , 在某些例子中 , 他們也能讓更多非常可思議的投資者 , 他們會創造更多的投資者 , 建造一個新的城市 , 建立一個更可思議的承諾 , 如果他們和一個合作夥伴一起合作 。
perhaps even in some arrangement that's a little bit like an escrow account , where you put land in the escrow account and the partner nation takes responsibility for it .	也許在某些爭議中 , 有點像一個帳戶一樣 , 你把土地放進去 , 你把土地放進去 。
there is also lots of land in africa where new cities could be built .	非洲也有許多許多島嶼 , 新的城市可以建造出來 。
this is a picture i took when i was flying along the coast .	這張照片是我在海岸上飛行的照片 。
there are immense stretches of land like this land where hundreds of millions of people could live .	像這樣的島嶼 , 像這樣的島嶼 , 那裡有數百萬人可以活下來 。
now , if we generalize this and think about not just one or two charter cites , but dozens cities that will help create places for the many hundreds of millions , perhaps billions of people who will move to cities in the coming century is there enough land for them ?	現在 , 如果我們把這個想法轉換成兩個字母 , 但數十萬人都能協助創造出一個地方 , 也許數十億人 , 或許有足夠的城市 , 可能有足夠的土地 , 可能有足夠的土地 , 對他們來說 , 那裡有足夠的城市 ?
well , throughout the world , if we look at the lights at night , the one thing that's misleading is that , visually , it looks like most of the world is already built out .	嗯 , 在整個世界中 , 如果我們仔細觀察光 , 其中一件事情是 , 虛擬地 , 通常 , 世界大部分已經建立出來了 。
so let me show you why that's wrong .	所以 , 讓我告訴各位為什麼錯了 。
take this representation of all of the land .	把這塊土地的代表 。
turn it into a square that stands for all the arable land on earth .	轉換為地球上所有穩定的土地上 。
and let these dots represent the land that's already taken up by the cities that three billion people now live in .	讓這些節目代表在城市中 , 有三十億人居住的土地 。
if you move the dots down to the bottom of the rectangle you can see that the cities for the existing three billion urban residents take up only three percent of the arable land on earth .	如果你搬到地球的底部 , 你可以看到 , 在地球上有30億個城市 , 你可以看到 , 城市有三十億個城市復甦 , 只剩下三分之三的城市 。
so if we wanted to build cities for another billion people , they would be dots like this .	所以如果我們想要建立城市 , 他們會這樣做 。
we'd go from three percent of the arable land , to four percent .	我們從三分之三的島嶼 , 到4% 。
we'd dramatically reduce the human footprint on earth by building more cities that people can move to .	我們很戲劇地減少人類足跡的城市 , 建造更多城市 , 人們可以搬到地球上 。
and if these are cities governed by good rules , they can be cities where people are safe from crime , safe from disease and bad sanitation , where people have a chance to get a job .	如果這些城市是好的規則 , 他們可以從犯罪、安全疾病和壞衛生機構 , 人們有機會取得機會 。
they can get basic utilities like electricity .	他們可以得到基本的能力 , 就像電力一樣 。
their kids can get an education .	他們的孩子可以得到教育 。
so what will it take to get started building the first charter cities , scaling this so we build many more ?	所以 , 我們要怎麼開始建造第一章章章章魚城市 , 把這點建起來 , 我們建立更多更多 ?
it would help to have a manual .	它會幫助一個人工智慧 。
what university professors could do is write some details that might go into this manual .	大學教授可以做的是寫一些細節 , 可能進入這個儀式 。
you wouldn't want to let us run the cities , go out and design them .	你不想讓我們跑到城市 , 去設計城市 , 去設計它們 。
you wouldn't let academics out in the wild .	你不會讓學術界從野生開始 。
but , you could set us to work thinking about questions like , suppose it isn't just canada that does the deal with raul castro .	但 , 你可以讓我們思考問題像這樣的問題 , 假設它不是加拿大 , 而是加拿大的災難 。
perhaps brazil comes in as a participant , and spain as well . and perhaps cuba wants to be one of the partners in a fourway joint venture .	也許巴西來到參與者的參與者 , 也許是巴西想要成為一個夥伴之一的夥伴之一之一 。
how would we write the treaty to do that ?	我們該怎麼寫這個治療方法來做 ?
there is less precedent for that , but that could easily be worked out .	沒有預防這一點 , 但這可以很容易成功 。
how would we finance this ?	我們要如何定義這個呢 ?
turns out singapore and hong kong are cities that made huge gains on the value of the land that they owned when they got started .	結果發現 , 加坡和荷蘭卡的城市 , 讓他們自己開始的巨大的城市價值 , 當他們開始時 ,
you could use the gains on the value of the land to pay for things like the police , the courts , but the school system and the health care system too , which make this a more attractive place to live , makes this a place where people have higher incomes which , incidentally , makes the land more valuable .	你可以用在土地上使用gnus的價值 , 例如警察、法庭系統和健康照護系統 , 但學校系統和健康照護系統 , 讓這個地方變得更有價值 。
so the incentives for the people helping to construct this zone and build it , and set up the basic rules , go very much in the right direction .	所以 , 對人們來說 , 人們幫助建構這個zone , 建立基本規則 , 建立基本規則 , 去做基本規則 , 去做基本的方向 。
so there are many other details like this .	所以 , 有許多其他細節的細節 。
how could we have buildings that are low cost and affordable for people who work in a first job , assembling something like an iphone , but make those buildings energy efficient , and make sure that they are safe , so they don't fall down in an earthquake or a hurricane .	首先 , 我們要如何建立成本低價和負擔工作的人 , 如iphone , 但讓這些建築物更安全 , 但讓這些建築能安全 , 確保它們是安全的 , 所以確保它們是安全的 , 所以他們不在地震或颶風 。
many technical details to be worked out , but those of us who are already starting to pursue these things can already tell that there is no roadblock , there's no impediment , other than a failure of imagination , that will keep us from delivering on a truly global winwin solution .	許多技術細節的細節 , 但這些人已經開始追求這些東西已經開始追求這些東西已經沒有辦法說道路 , 還沒有辦法改善全球風力的失敗 , 其它會讓我們保持全球風力的解決方案 。
let me conclude with this picture .	讓我跟這張照片結論 。
the reason we can be so well off , even though there is so many people on earth , is because of the power of ideas .	雖然我們可以太好了 , 即使有許多人在地球上 , 就是因為想法的力量力量 。
we can share ideas with other people , and when they discover them , they share with us .	我們可以和其他人分享想法 , 當他們發現他們和我們分享他們 。
it's not like scarce objects , where sharing means we each get less .	不像恐怖物體 , 鯊魚的意思是 , 我們每次就會變得更少 。
when we share ideas we all get more .	當我們分享想法時 , 我們都得到更多 。
when we think about ideas in that way , we usually think about technologies .	當我們思考這個想法時 , 我們通常會想到科技科技科技 。
but there is another class of ideas: the rules that govern how we interact with each other ; rules like , let's have a tax system that supports a research university that gives away certain kinds of knowledge for free .	但還有另一個想法: 「 金融規則 」 規則我們如何與彼此互動 ; 例如 , 讓我們有一個稅制系統 , 支持一個研究免費的知識系統 , 讓一些知識自由 。
let's have a system where we have ownership of land that is registered in a government office , that people can pledge as collateral .	咱們來這裡有一個系統 , 我們擁有權利的系統 , 人們可以在政府辦公室裡 , 人們可以把喬治當成大學 。
if we can keep innovating on our space of rules , and particularly innovate in the sense of coming up with rules for changing rules , so we don't get stuck with bad rules , then we can keep moving progress forward and truly make the world a better place , so that people like nelson and his friends don't have to study any longer under the streetlights . thank you .	如果我們能保持創新的空間 , 尤其是創新規則 , 尤其是改變規則 , 所以我們不能用壞規則 , 那麼我們不能用壞規則 , 讓世界變得更好 , 所以 , 人們像尼爾遜和朋友們一樣 。
genomics pioneer craig venter takes a break from his epic roundtheworld expedition to talk about the millions of genes his team has discovered so far in its quest to map the ocean’s biodiversity .	基因組的心理心理心理治療 , 從他的團隊開始 , 從他開始談談到大約有數百萬個基因多樣性 , 他的團隊發現了非常遠 。
dna , biosphere , biotech , entrepreneur , genetics , invention , oceans , science , technology	dna、生物學、生物技術、企業家、工業、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、技術、
craig venter on dna and the sea	爬上dna和海海海域 。
at the break , i was asked by several people about my comments about the aging debate .	在突破時 , 我被問過 , 關於我的評論辯論 。
and this will be my only comment on it .	這將會是我唯一的內容 。
and that is , i understand that optimists greatly outlive pessimists .	這就是 , 我了解到 , 最樂觀主義者很擅長的心理學家 。
what i'm going to tell you about in my 18 minutes is how we're about to switch from reading the genetic code to the first stages of beginning to write the code ourselves .	我要告訴各位 , 在18分鐘內 , 就是我們如何從閱讀基因編碼到基因編碼的第一階段 , 來寫程式碼我們自己 。
it's only 10 years ago this month when we published the first sequence of a freeliving organism , that of haemophilus influenzae .	只有10年前 , 當我們發表了第一個自由主義的序列 , 那個月球體的生命序列 , 那就是哈大氣的影響 。
that took a genome project from 13 years down to four months .	花了13年的時間 , 從13年到四個月 。
we can now do that same genome project in the order of two to eight hours .	現在我們可以做同樣的基因組計畫 , 兩到八個小時 。
so in the last decade , a large number of genomes have been added: most human pathogens , a couple of plants , several insects and several mammals , including the human genome .	所以在過去十年間 , 一大堆基因組中 , 大部分的植物 , 其中幾種植物、昆蟲、昆蟲、幾種哺乳類 , 包括人類基因組 。
genomics at this stage of the thinking from a little over 10 years ago was , by the end of this year , we might have between three and five genomes sequenced ; it's on the order of several hundred .	在十年前 , 基因組的過程中 , 我們可能有三到五個基因組 , 我們大概有三到五個基因組序列 ; 五個基因組序列 。
we just got a grant from the gordon and betty moore foundation to sequence 130 genomes this year , as a side project from environmental organisms .	我們只是從目標開始 , 今年的目標 , 今年130個基因組基金會 , 作為一個來自環境生物生物生物體的一面 。
so the rate of reading the genetic code has changed .	所以閱讀基因編碼的速度已經改變了 。
but as we look , what's out there , we've barely scratched the surface on what is available on this planet .	但當我們觀察到 , 我們幾乎完全在這個星球表面上 , 在地球表面上有可可可用的 。
most people don't realize it , because they're invisible , but microbes make up about a half of the earth's biomass , whereas all animals only make up about one onethousandth of all the biomass .	大多數人並不意識到 , 因為它們是很可見的 , 但微生物會讓地球上有一半的生物物 , 所有動物只能用1/3 。
and maybe it's something that people in oxford don't do very often , but if you ever make it to the sea , and you swallow a mouthful of seawater , keep in mind that each milliliter has about a million bacteria and on the order of 10 million viruses .	也許這是在奧克州的人們並不常常做的事 , 但如果你能讓海水 , 你會意識到海水 , 你就會意識到一百萬個細菌 , 讓每英里的細菌都有大約有一百萬個細菌 。
less than 5 , 000 microbial species have been characterized as of two years ago , and so we decided to do something about it .	超過五千個微生物物種被描繪成了 , 所以我們決定要做些什麼事 。
and we started the sorcerer ii expedition , where we were , as with great oceanographic expeditions , trying to sample the ocean every 200 miles .	我們開始了很恐怖的冰箱 , 我們正處於200英哩的位置 , 試著把海洋分割為200英哩 。
we started in bermuda for our test project , then moved up to halifax , working down the u . s . east coast , the caribbean sea , the panama canal , through to the galapagos , then across the pacific , and we're in the process now of working our way across the indian ocean .	我們從柏林開始 , 為我們的測試 , 然後搬到美國 , 搬到美國海岸 , 加勒比海 , 加勒比海 , 加勒比海 , 到巴勒比亞海岸 , 然後我們正在工作的過程中工作 。
it's very tough duty ; we're doing this on a sailing vessel , in part to help excite young people about going into science .	非常難以置信 , 我們正在做這個事 , 在一部分上 , 幫助年輕人 , 幫助年輕人進入科學領域 。
the experiments are incredibly simple .	實驗是非常簡單的 。
we just take seawater and we filter it , and we collect different size organisms on different filters , and then take their dna back to our lab in rockville , where we can sequence a hundred million letters of the genetic code every 24 hours .	我們只拿海水水 , 我們收集不同的大小生物體 , 然後把它們放在岩石上 , 然後把它們放到我們的實驗室裡 , 我們可以把dna放到我們的實驗室裡 , 每24小時 。
and with doing this , we've made some amazing discoveries .	藉此做這件事 , 我們做了一些驚人的發現 。
for example , it was thought that the visual pigments that are in our eyes there was only one or two organisms in the environment that had these same pigments .	舉例來說 , 這是我們眼睛的視覺模式 , 只有一或兩種生物 , 在我們眼睛裡有同樣的原則 。
it turns out , almost every species in the upper parts of the ocean in warm parts of the world have these same photoreceptors , and use sunlight as the source of their energy and communication .	結果發現 , 幾乎每個物種都在暖化的一部分 , 海洋中的所有這些照片都有同樣的照片 , 用太陽光和溝通 。
from one site , from one barrel of seawater , we discovered 1 . 3 million new genes and as many as 50 , 000 new species .	從一個地方開始 , 從一塊海水中 , 我們發現了1.3百萬個新基因 , 如同有5000個新物種 。
we've extended this to the air now with a grant from the sloan foundation .	我們現在已經擴展到空氣的基金會基金會 。
we're measuring how many viruses and bacteria all of us are breathing in and out every day , particularly on airplanes or closed auditoriums .	我們正在增加多少病毒和細菌有關 , 每天都呼吸和細菌 , 特別是在飛機上 , 特別是在飛機上 , 特別是在飛機上 。
we filter through some simple apparatuses ; we collect on the order of a billion microbes from just a day filtering on top of a building in new york city .	我們透過一些簡單的應用程式 , 我們收集在紐約市一棟十億微生物的秩序 。
and we're in the process of sequencing all that at the present time .	我們現在在現在的秘密過程中 ,
just on the data collection side , just where we are through the galapagos , we're finding that almost every 200 miles , we see tremendous diversity in the samples in the ocean .	只要在資料庫裡 , 我們就會發現 , 幾乎每200英哩 , 我們就會發現 , 幾乎每200英里 , 我們看到了非常多樣性 。
some of these make logical sense , in terms of different temperature gradients .	有些邏輯的意義 , 在不同的溫度中 , 有些不同溫度 。
so this is a satellite photograph based on temperatures red being warm , blue being cold and we found there's a tremendous difference between the warm water samples and the cold water samples , in terms of abundant species .	這是一張衛星攝影的衛星攝影 , 藍色是溫暖的 , 藍色被冷卻 , 我們發現有很大的差異 。
the other thing that surprised us quite a bit is these photoreceptors detect different wavelengths of light , and we can predict that based on their amino acid sequence .	另一件事 , 令人驚訝的是這些攝影師偵測不同的波長 , 我們可以預測光線上的不同波長 。
and these vary tremendously from region to region .	這些疫苗來自區域的區域 。
maybe not surprisingly , in the deep ocean , where it's mostly blue , the photoreceptors tend to see blue light .	也許不是令人驚訝的是 , 在深海海洋中 , 大部分是藍色、攝影師通常會看到藍光 。
when there's a lot of chlorophyll around , they see a lot of green light .	當有許多英雄的圓圈時 , 他們看到很多綠光燈 。
but they vary even more , possibly moving towards infrared and ultraviolet in the extremes .	但他們甚至更脆弱 , 可能在極端移動和紫外線 。
just to try and get an assessment of what our gene repertoire was , we assembled all the data including all of ours thus far from the expedition , which represents more than half of all the gene data on the planet and it totaled around 29 million genes .	為了嘗試 , 我們基因複製了什麼樣子 , 我們組成所有資料包含了所有的資料包含了超過2億個基因資料 , 代表地球上有超過一半的基因資料 , 它代表超過超過2億個基因資料 。
and we tried to put these into gene families to see what these discoveries are: are we just discovering new members of known families , or are we discovering new families ?	我們試著把這些基因放進基因家庭中 , 看看這些發現是:我們只是發現新的成員 , 或者我們發現新家庭的成員 ?
and it turns out we have about 50 , 000 major gene families , but every new sample we take in the environment adds in a linear fashion to these new families .	結果發現 , 我們有大約五萬個主要基因家庭 , 但每一種新的樣本 , 我們在一個線上加上這些新的家庭 。
so we're at the earliest stages of discovery about basic genes , components and life on this planet .	所以我們在最早期的發現 , 關於基本基因、元件和生命在這個星球上 。
when we look at the socalled evolutionary tree , we're up on the upper righthand corner with the animals .	當我們仔細觀察到蘇聯樹上 , 我們在右邊的右邊 , 和動物之間的角落 。
of those roughly 29 million genes , we only have around 24 , 000 in our genome .	那些基因組的基因 , 我們只有大約有24千萬個基因組 , 我們只擁有24千萬個基因組 。
and if you take all animals together , we probably share less than 30 , 000 and probably maybe a dozen or more thousand different gene families .	如果你把所有動物一起在一起 , 我們可能分享不到三萬個基因家庭 , 也許是十萬種不同的基因家庭 。
i view that these genes are now not only the design components of evolution .	我現在認為這些基因不是唯一設計的元素 。
and we think in a genecentric view maybe going back to richard dawkins' ideas than in a genomecentric view , which are different constructs of these gene components .	我們認為在基因中心的觀點也許會回溯到花園的概念 , 不只是基因組的觀點 , 而是不同的建構 。
synthetic dna , the ability to synthesize dna , has changed at sort of the same pace that dna sequencing has over the last decade or two , and is getting very rapid and very cheap .	合成dna , 能夠合成dna的能力 , 隨著dna序列的dna序列已經改變了過去十年或兩 , 結果變得非常快 。
our first thought about synthetic genomics came when we sequenced the second genome back in 1995 , and that from mycoplasma genitalium .	我們首先想到合合成基因組組組組成第二個基因組 , 從我1995年起 , 從我的塑膠原子開始思考 。
and we have really nice tshirts that say , you know , " i heart my genitalium . "	我們有很棒的椅子 , 說: 「 我心臟病原 」
this is actually just a microorganism .	這其實只是個微生物學 。
but it has roughly 500 genes .	但它有大約500個基因 。
haemophilus had 1 , 800 genes .	哈佛博士有1800個基因 。
and we simply asked the question , if one species needs 800 , another 500 , is there a smaller set of genes that might comprise a minimal operating system ?	我們只是問一個問題 , 如果一個物種需要800 , 另一500 , 另一個500 , 有一個較小的基因系統 ?
so we started doing transposon mutagenesis .	所以我們開始做轉變突突變 。
transposons are just small pieces of dna that randomly insert in the genetic code .	相反的dna只是基因編碼的小部分 。
and if they insert in the middle of the gene , they disrupt its function .	如果他們在基因的中間 , 他們會破壞它 。
so we made a map of all the genes that could take transposon insertions and we called those " nonessential genes . "	所以我們做了一幅所有基因組的地圖 , 我們稱之為 「 無知基因 」 。
but it turns out the environment is very critical for this , and you can only define an essential or nonessential gene based on exactly what's in the environment .	但事實證明 , 環境非常重要的是 , 你只能定義一個必要或不確定基因基礎的基因基礎 。
we also tried to take a more directly intellectual approach with the genomes of 13 related organisms , and we tried to compare all of those , to see what they had in common .	我們也試著用更直接直接用13個體體體體內的基因組 , 我們試著把所有這些東西放在一起 , 看看他們在共同點中有什麼共同點 。
and we got these overlapping circles . and we found only 173 genes common to all 13 organisms .	我們得到了這些循環循環循環 , 我們發現只有173個基因共通點 。
the pool expanded a little bit if we ignored one intracellular parasite ; it expanded even more when we looked at core sets of genes of around 310 or so .	警察擴張了一點如果我們忽略了一個交易的寄生蟲 ; 它擴張了超過310或所以當我們看著核心基因組的基因組組組組 。
so we think that we can expand or contract genomes , depending on your point of view here , to maybe 300 to 400 genes from the minimal of 500 .	所以我們認為我們可以擴展或矛盾基因組 , 依賴你的觀點來看 , 也許300到4000個基因 , 從最低的最小的基因 。
the only way to prove these ideas was to construct an artificial chromosome with those genes in them , and we had to do this in a cassettebased fashion .	唯一方法證明這些想法是要建立一個人工染色體染色體染色體染色體
we found that synthesizing accurate dna in large pieces was extremely difficult .	我們發現 , 合成dna中的dna , 非常困難 。
ham smith and clyde hutchison , my colleagues on this , developed an exciting new method that allowed us to synthesize a 5 , 000base pair virus in only a twoweek period that was 100 percent accurate , in terms of its sequence and its biology .	哈姆斯mith和cartchion , 我的同事開發了一個新方法 , 開發了一個新的方法 , 使我們能夠合作 , 讓我們一起合作合作 , 只有兩百分之五千個鹼基病毒 。
it was a quite exciting experiment when we just took the synthetic piece of dna , injected it in the bacteria and all of a sudden , that dna started driving the production of the virus particles that turned around and then killed the bacteria .	這是很令人興奮的實驗當我們把dna放進dna中 , 檢測到它的細菌和所有突然間 , dna開始開車 , dna開始開車 , 然後殺死細菌 。
this was not the first synthetic virus a polio virus had been made a year before but it was only one tenthousandth as active and it took three years to do .	這不是第一個合成的病毒病毒病毒 , 而是花了一年的時間 , 但它只僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅有
this is a cartoon of the structure of phi x 174 .	這是一台慈善機構174年的結構 。
this is a case where the software now builds its own hardware , and that's the notions that we have with biology .	這是軟體現在的軟體現在建造它自己的硬體 , 這不是我們與生物學的概念 。
people immediately jump to concerns about biological warfare , and i had recent testimony before a senate committee , and a special committee the u . s . government has set up to review this area .	人們馬上會馬上跳到生物暖化之前 , 我最近有最近的試驗 , 在一個感官委員會之前 , 一個特別的承諾 , 政府必須重新建議這個區域 。
and i think it's important to keep reality in mind , versus what happens with people's imaginations .	我認為這很重要的是要保持現實、多樣性 , 和人們想像力發生的事情 。
basically , any virus that's been sequenced today that genome can be made .	基本上 , 任何病毒都被序列出來 。
and people immediately freak out about things about ebola or smallpox , but the dna from this organism is not infective .	而人們馬上對伊波拉或小盒子 , 但這些生物從這個生物體中得到的dna , 不是感染的 。
so even if somebody made the smallpox genome , that dna itself would not cause infections .	所以即使有人把基因組組組組成 , dna本身不會造成感染 。
the real concern that security departments have is designer viruses .	真正的概念是 , 安全的辯論是設計病毒病毒 。
and there's only two countries , the u . s . and the former soviet union , that had major efforts on trying to create biological warfare agents .	只有兩個國家 , 美國的總共有兩個國家 , 試圖創造生物暖化 , 試圖創造生物暖化的戰爭 。
if that research is truly discontinued , there should be very little activity on the knowhow to make designer viruses in the future .	如果研究的研究是很不穩定的 , 應該是很小的活動 , 應該在未來製造製造病毒的病毒 。
i think singlecell organisms are possible within two years .	我認為 , 單一兩年內有機體可能性 。
and possibly eukaryotic cells , those that we have , are possible within a decade .	可能是數十年來的細胞 , 那些我們擁有的 , 可能在十年內 。
so we're now making several dozen different constructs , because we can vary the cassettes and the genes that go into this artificial chromosome .	我們現在正在製造數十個不同的建設 , 因為我們可以用貓和基因組 , 讓貓咪和基因會進入這個藝術體中 。
the key is , how do you put all of the others ?	關鍵是 , 你要如何把所有其他人放在一起 ?
we start with these fragments , and then we have a homologous recombination system that reassembles those into a chromosome .	我們從這些框架開始 , 然後我們有一堆巨大的反應系統 , 重新組成這些染色體 。
this is derived from an organism , deinococcus radiodurans , that can take three million rads of radiation and not be killed .	這是從生物體開始 , 絕大多數的輻射輻射 , 可以花三百萬個輻射 , 而不是被殺害 。
it reassembles its genome after this radiation burst in about 12 to 24 hours , after its chromosomes are literally blown apart .	在這個輻射之後 , 它釋放了基因組 , 大約12到24小時後 , 染色體染色體是完全盲目的 。
this organism is ubiquitous on the planet , and exists perhaps now in outer space due to all our travel there .	這種生物在地球上 , 存在於外太空 , 也許現在在太空中 , 可能在太空中所有的旅行 。
this is a glass beaker after about half a million rads of radiation .	這是一百萬個輻射後的玻璃啤酒 。
the glass started to burn and crack , while the microbes sitting in the bottom just got happier and happier .	玻璃開始燃燒和瘋狂 , 雖然微生物坐在底下 , 牠坐在底下 , 更快樂和快樂 。
here's an actual picture of what happens: the top of this shows the genome after 1 . 7 million rads of radiation .	這張照片是發生了什麼事:這顯示了1.7百萬個輻射的基因組 。
the chromosome is literally blown apart .	染色體是完全盲目的 。
and here's that same dna automatically reassembled 24 hours later .	這是同樣的dna自動的dna自動的24小時後 。
it's truly stunning that these organisms can do that , and we probably have thousands , if not tens of thousands , of different species on this planet that are capable of doing that .	真的很幸運的是這些生物可以做到這一點 , 我們可能有數千種不同的物種 , 如果不是數千種不同的物種 。
after these genomes are synthesized , the first step is just transplanting them into a cell without a genome .	在這些基因組之後 , 第一步是合成的 , 第一步就是移植它們 , 沒有基因組 。
so we think synthetic cells are going to have tremendous potential , not only for understanding the basis of biology but for hopefully environmental and society issues .	所以我們認為合成細胞將會有非常大的潛力 , 不僅為了了解生物學和社會議題 。
for example , from the third organism we sequenced , methanococcus jannaschii it lives in boiling water temperatures ; its energy source is hydrogen and all its carbon comes from co2 it captures back from the environment .	舉例來說 , 從第三個機制中 , 甲烷佔據了水溫溫度 , 它的能量源 , 它的能量是氫氣和所有碳從環境中取出來 。
so we know lots of different pathways , thousands of different organisms now that live off of co2 , and can capture that back .	所以我們知道很多不同的路徑 , 數千種不同的生物 , 現在可以從二氧化碳中捕捉到 。
so instead of using carbon from oil for synthetic processes , we have the chance of using carbon and capturing it back from the atmosphere , converting that into biopolymers or other products .	所以 , 不是用石油來合成的碳 , 我們有機會用碳和捕捉它從大氣中取出來 , 將它從大氣中取回生物或其他產品 。
we have one organism that lives off of carbon monoxide , and we use as a reducing power to split water to produce hydrogen and oxygen .	我們有一種機機體 , 用碳分子來製造氫氣和氧氣 。 我們用作為一個紅色的水 , 來製造氫和氧氣 。
also , there's numerous pathways that can be engineered metabolizing methane .	此外 , 有很大的路徑 , 可以被工程化成甲烷 。
and dupont has a major program with statoil in norway to capture and convert the methane from the gas fields there into useful products .	而荷蘭有一大堆石油裡的主要計畫 , 從氣體場到那裡 , 從氣體領域到那裡 , 進入有用的產品 。
within a short while , i think there's going to be a new field called " combinatorial genomics , " because with these new synthesis capabilities , these vast gene array repertoires and the homologous recombination , we think we can design a robot to make maybe a million different chromosomes a day .	短短一段時間內 , 我想有一個新的領域叫做 「 結合器 」 因為這些新的合成基因組 」 因為有這些新合 , 這些新合成的基因組 , 我們認為我們可以設計機器人可以設計一個機器人 , 我們認為我們可以設計機器人可以做出一百萬種不同的染色體 。
and therefore , as with all biology , you get selection through screening , whether you're screening for hydrogen production , or chemical production , or just viability .	因此 , 隨著所有生物學 , 你就會透過螢幕 , 不論你是否在螢幕上 , 不論你在螢幕上 , 或是化學產品 。
to understand the role of these genes is going to be well within reach .	為了了解這些基因的角色將會很有效 。
we're trying to modify photosynthesis to produce hydrogen directly from sunlight .	我們試圖改造氫氣攝影機來製造氫氣直接從太陽光光光光光線上 。
photosynthesis is modulated by oxygen , and we have an oxygeninsensitive hydrogenase that we think will totally change this process .	攝影機是由氧氣組成的 , 我們有一個氧氣感敏感的氫氣 , 我們認為不會改變這個過程 。
we're also combining cellulases , the enzymes that break down complex sugars into simple sugars and fermentation in the same cell for producing ethanol .	我們也將細胞組合成細胞組合 , 酵素將複雜的糖分解成簡單糖尿和脂肪的細胞 。
pharmaceutical production is already under way in major laboratories using microbes .	博物館已經在實驗室中使用微生物生產方式 。
the chemistry from compounds in the environment is orders of magnitude more complex than our best chemists can produce .	在環境中 , 化學物質中的化學物質 , 比我們最好的化學物質 , 比我們最好的化學物質能產生 。
i think future engineered species could be the source of food , hopefully a source of energy , environmental remediation and perhaps replacing the petrochemical industry .	我認為未來工程師可以成為食物的源源頭 , 希望是一堆能量、環境反應、環境反應 , 也許再複製化學物質 。
let me just close with ethical and policy studies .	讓我和政策和政策研究 。
we delayed the start of our experiments in 1999 until we completed a yearandahalf bioethical review as to whether we should try and make an artificial species .	我們在19999年開始我們實驗實驗 , 直到我們完成了一年 , 直到我們是否應該嘗試創造一個人性的物種 。
every major religion participated in this .	在這個領域中 , 每個主要宗教參與者 。
it was actually a very strange study , because the various religious leaders were using their scriptures as law books , and they couldn't find anything in them prohibiting making life , so it must be ok . the only ultimate concerns were biological warfare aspects of this , but gave us the go ahead to start these experiments for the reasons we were doing them .	這是個非常奇怪的研究 , 因為許多宗教領袖使用他們的描述 , 他們用他們的描述 , 他們無法找到任何東西 , 所以他們不能在他們創造生命中唯一的東西 , 所以它一定是生物暖化的唯一面向 。
right now the sloan foundation has just funded a multiinstitutional study on this , to work out what the risk and benefits to society are , and the rules that scientific teams such as my own should be using in this area , and we're trying to set good examples as we go forward .	現在 , 西班牙基基金已經有趣了多種機構 , 找出風險和利益的規則 , 來找出社會的風險和利益團隊 , 比如我自己應該在這個區域中使用的規則 , 我們試著設定好的例子 。
these are complex issues .	這些都是複雜的問題 。
except for the threat of bioterrorism , they're very simple issues in terms of , can we design things to produce clean energy , perhaps revolutionizing what developing countries can do and provide through various simple processes .	除了生物恐怖主義的威脅 , 他們是非常簡單的問題 , 例如 , 我們可以設計東西來製造乾淨能源 , 也許革命發展出乾淨能源 , 也許革命發展出各種簡單的過程 。
psychologist philip zimbardo says happiness and success are rooted in a trait most of us disregard: the way we orient toward the past , present and future . he suggests we calibrate our outlook on time as a first step to improving our lives .	心理學家philipipzimbardo說幸福和成功的結論 , 大部分人都被根除在過去 , 未來 。 他建議了我們的人生 。 他建議了我們的人生 。 他建議了我們的人生 。 他建議了我們的人生 。
brain , business , happiness , mind , psychology , science	企業、幸福、快樂、心理學、心理學、科學、科學、
philip zimbardo prescribes a healthy take on time	philipipzimbardo準備好了 。
i want to share with you some ideas about the secret power of time , in a very short time .	我想和你們分享一些關於時間的秘密力量 , 在很短的時間中 ,
video: all right , start the clock please . 30 seconds studio .	影片:好吧 , 開始carps 。 30秒鐘 。
keep it quiet please . settle down .	讓它安靜下來 , 放下了 。
it's about time . end sequence . take one .	大約是時間 。 最後 , 序列 。
10 , nine , eight , seven , six , five , four , three , two . . .	10 , 9、8、6、5、4 , 等等 。
philip zimbardo: let's tune into the conversation of the principals in adam's temptation .	philipzimbardo:咱們來到原則的對話 。
" come on adam , don't be so wishywashy . take a bite . " " i did . "	「 來到阿姆斯 , 不要太太太願了 。 」
" one bite , adam . don't abandon eve . "	「 某方面 , 阿姆斯 , 不要再生進化 。 」
" i don't know , guys .	「 我不知道 , 傢伙 。 」
i don't want to get in trouble . "	我不想去麻煩 。 」
" okay . one bite . what the hell ? "	「 好 , 嗯 , 嗯 , 什麼 ? 」
life is temptation . it's all about yielding , resisting , yes , no , now , later , impulsive , reflective , present focus and future focus .	生命是跳舞 , 它都是關於黃色、抗拒、抗拒、反抗、現在 , 等等 , 等等 , 反映未來、專注、專注、專注和未來 。
promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment .	承諾在那一刻 , 向前邁進 。
of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage thank you george bush the majority , 60 percent , yielded to sexual temptations within one year .	青少年女孩被激發性虐待性虐待 , 直到婚姻 , 直到婚姻中 , 60%、60%、百分之六十 。
and most of them did so without using birth control .	大部分人都這樣做 , 不用呼吸控制 。
so much for promises .	對於承諾的承諾 。
now lets tempt fouryearolds , giving them a treat .	現在讓我們暫停四歲的孩子 , 給他們一個治療 。
they can have one marshmallow now . but if they wait until the experimenter comes back , they can have two .	現在他們可以有一個馬鈴薯 , 但如果他們直到實驗者回來 , 他們就可以有兩個 。
of course it pays , if you like marshmallows , to wait .	當然它付錢 , 如果你喜歡馬鈴薯 , 等等 。
what happens is twothirds of the kids give in to temptation .	結果是兩分之二的孩子都給誘惑 。
they cannot wait . the others , of course , wait .	他們不能等待 。 當然 , 當然 , 等等 。
they resist the temptation . they delay the now for later .	他們抗拒 , 現在他們拒絕了 。 他們現在拒絕了 。
walter mischel , my colleague at stanford , went back 14 years later , to try to discover what was different about those kids .	華盛頓大學 , 我的同事在史丹佛 , 回到14年後 , 試圖發現這些孩子的不同 。
there were enormous differences between kids who resisted and kids who yielded , in many ways .	有很大的差異和孩子之間有很大的差異 , 尤其是許多方面的孩子 。
the kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the sat .	那些抗拒了250個點 , 坐在坐下來 。
that's enormous . that's like a whole set of different iq points .	這是很巨大 , 這是個不同的iq點 。
they didn't get in as much trouble . they were better students .	他們沒有太多麻煩了 , 他們更好的學生 。
they were selfconfident and determined . and the key for me today , the key for you , is , they were futurefocused rather than presentfocused .	他們很自信 , 今天對我來說 , 關鍵是 , 關鍵是 , 他們對你來說 , 他們是未來深深深刻的 。
so what is time perspective ? that's what i'm going to talk about today .	所以當今觀點呢 ? 這就是我今天要談的是什麼 ?
time perspective is the study of how individuals , all of us , divide the flow of your human experience into time zones or time categories .	視覺是如何個人體驗個人體驗的研究 , 將你的人類體驗到時間zone或時間批評 。
and you do it automatically and nonconsciously .	然後你自動地做 , 沒有意識到 。
they vary between cultures , between nations , between individuals , between social classes , between education levels .	他們在文化之間之間之間之間之間的差距 , 教育層級之間之間之間的差距 。
and the problem is that they can become biased , because you learn to overuse some of them and underuse the others .	問題是 , 他們可以成為偏見 , 因為你學到了一些人 , 並且在其他人身上 。
what determines any decision you make ?	你是否能做出決定呢 ?
you make a decision on which you're going to base an action .	你決定要在哪裡做決定 。
for some people it's only about what is in the immediate situation , what other people are doing and what you're feeling .	對某些人來說 , 只是在立場的情況下 , 其他人正在做的事 , 其他人正在做的事 , 你所感受的感覺 。
and those people , when they make their decisions in that format we're going to call them " presentoriented , " because their focus is what is now .	而這些人 , 當他們做出決策時 , 我們會稱他們為 「 現場 」 因為他們的焦點是現在的 。
for others , the present is irrelevant .	對於其他人來說 , 現場是非常重要的 。
it's always about " what is this situation like that i've experienced in the past ? "	一直在說: 「 我經歷過什麼樣子 ? 」
so that their decisions are based on past memories .	所以 , 他們的決策是根據過去記憶的 。
and we're going to call those people " pastoriented , " because they focus on what was .	我們要稱這些人為 「 過去 」 因為他們專注在做什麼 。
for others it's not the past , it's not the present , it's only about the future .	對其他人來說 , 這不是過去 , 而是關於未來 。
their focus is always about anticipated consequences .	他們的焦點是關於預期的結果 。
we're going to call them " futureoriented . " their focus is on what will be .	我們要稱他們為 「 未來 」 他們的焦點就是在什麼樣子上 。
so , time paradox , i want to argue , the paradox of time perspective , is something that influences every decision you make , you're totally unaware of .	所以 , 時間悖論 , 我想要爭論、時間的矛盾 , 是影響你每一個決定的決定 , 你不會完全意識到 。
namely , the extent to which you have one of these biased time perspectives .	舉例來說 , 你有一個偏見的時間觀點 。
well there is actually six of them . there are two ways to be presentoriented .	其實有六種方法 , 有兩種方式是現代的 。
there is two ways to be pastoriented , two ways to be future .	有兩種方式是過去的 , 兩種方式是未來的 。
you can focus on pastpositive , or pastnegative .	你可以專注過去相反 , 或是過去負面的負面 。
you can be presenthedonistic , namely you focus on the joys of life , or presentfatalist it doesn't matter , your life is controlled .	你可以被展示給生命的喜悅 , 稱之為生命的喜悅主義者的喜悅主義者並不重要 , 你的人生是控制的 。
you can be futureoriented , setting goals .	你可以是未來的 , 設定目標 。
or you can be transcendental future: namely , life begins after death .	或者 , 你可以被轉化為未來的未來:生命開始了 。
developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidly depending on the demands of the situation , that's what you've got to learn to do .	開發出心理飛行的時間來改變心理的觀點 , 很幸運地依賴情況下 , 這就是你必須學習去做的事 。
so , very quickly , what is the optimal time profile ?	所以 , 很快地 , 什麼是最佳的 ?
high on pastpositive . moderately high on future .	過去相反地 , 現代的高度高 。
and moderate on presenthedonism .	而現代主義在現代主義上 。
and always low on pastnegative and presentfatalism .	過去的負面和現代主義 。
so the optimal temporal mix is what you get from the past pastpositive gives you roots . you connect your family , identity and your self .	所以 , 最樂觀的混合是你從過去的過去 , 讓你的家人 , 你連結你的家人 , 和你的自我連結 。
what you get from the future is wings to soar to new destinations , new challenges .	從未來開始 , 你從未來到新的辯論、新的挑戰 。
what you get from the present hedonism is the energy , the energy to explore yourself , places , people , sensuality .	你從現代主義中得到的能量 , 能量來探索自己的地方 , 人們 , 人們、敏感 。
any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives .	任何時間的觀點比正面的觀點比正面 。
what do futures sacrifice for success ?	未來的成功呢 ?
they sacrifice family time . they sacrifice friend time .	他們的犧牲家庭時間 。 他們的犧牲朋友 。
they sacrifice fun time . they sacrifice personal indulgence .	他們的犧牲時間 , 他們犧牲了個人的成人 。
they sacrifice hobbies . and they sacrifice sleep . so it affects their health .	他們的犧牲者 , 他們的犧牲睡眠 。 所以它影響他們的健康 。 所以它影響他們的健康 。
and they live for work , achievement and control .	他們活在工作中 , 一個成就和控制 。
i'm sure that resonates with some of the tedsters .	我相信 , 有一些tedter的反應 。
and it resonated for me . i grew up as a poor kid in the south bronx ghetto , a sicilian family everyone lived in the past and present .	對我來說 , 這對我來說是南布朗克斯的貧窮小孩 , 一位醫師家人住在過去和現在 。
i'm here as a futureoriented person who went over the top , who did all these sacrifices because teachers intervened , and made me future oriented .	我在這裡來這裡是一位未來的陌生人 , 他們做了所有這些犧牲的犧牲 , 因為老師們介紹了 , 讓我未來或有智慧 。
told me don't eat that marshmallow , because if you wait you're going to get two of them , until i learned to balance out .	對我來說 , 不要吃馬鈴薯 , 因為如果你等等待你 , 直到我學會去平衡 。
i've added presenthedonism , i've added a focus on the pastpositive , so , at 76 years old , i am more energetic than ever , more productive , and i'm happier than i have ever been .	我被加入了反抗主義 , 我把焦點放在過去的過去76歲 , 所以 , 在76歲時 , 我比以前更有生產力 , 我比以前更快樂 。
i just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems: changing the dropout rates of school kids , combating addictions , enhancing teen health , curing vets' ptsd with time metaphors getting miracle cures promoting sustainability and conservation , reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50percent drop out rate , altering appeals to suicidal terrorists , and modifying family conflicts as timezone clashes .	我想說 , 我們正在應用很多問題:改變學校的戲劇率:改變學校的戲劇率 , 讓青少年健康、加速健康、治療疫苗 , 把疫苗轉換成永續性和保持穩定的永續性 , 減少了五十個家庭 , 減少了五十個家庭 , 減少了五十五十個家庭 , 以後 , 以後 , 以後 , 以後 , 再生病 。
so i want to end by saying: many of life's puzzles can be solved by understanding your time perspective and that of others .	所以我想要最後說:許多生命的謎題可以被理解 , 你的觀點 , 了解你的觀點和其他人 。
and the idea is so simple , so obvious , but i think the consequences are really profound .	這個想法很簡單 , 但我認為結果是很明顯的 , 但我認為後果真的很深 。
how many of today's headlines will matter in 100 years ? 1000 ? kirk citron's " long news " project collects stories that not only matter today , but will resonate for decades even centuries to come . at ted2010 , he highlights recent headlines with the potential to shape our future .	現今的頭條有多少人頭條會很重要 ?1000年 ? kircit寫信 , 不只是今天今天的新聞報告 , 甚至會回來ted2010年 , 他會對未來的影響 。
future , global issues , media , news , science	未來 , 全球議題、媒體、新聞、新聞、科學、新聞、科學、新聞、新聞、科學、新聞、新聞、
kirk citron: and now , the real news	kirkircit:現在 , 真正的消息 。
we are drowning in news .	我們在新的新聞中 。
reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year .	一年一年半以來 , 一半的新故事 , 一年半的新故事 。
that's just one source .	這只是一個價格 。
my question is: how many of those stories are actually going to matter in the long run ?	我的問題是:有多少這些故事會在長期跑步中 ?
that's the idea behind the long news .	這是長期消息後的概念 。
it's a project by the long now foundation , which was founded by tedsters including kevin kelly and stewart brand .	這是一段長期的基礎 , 包括tedtervinkellyvinkel和史蒂夫的計畫 。
and what we're looking for is news stories that might still matter 50 or 100 or 10 , 000 years from now .	我們正在尋找的新故事 , 可能是50到1000年或1000年 。
and when you look at the news through that filter , a lot falls by the wayside .	當你看著那封濾器時 , 很多人跌倒了 。
to take the top stories from the a . p . this last year , is this going to matter in a decade ?	為了從一年前開始 , 去年 , 去年 , 這將會很重要嗎 ?
is this going to matter in 50 or 100 years ?	這將會發生在50年或100年 ?
okay , that was kind of cool .	好 , 這有點酷 。
but the top story of this past year was the economy , and i'm just betting that , sooner or later , this particular recession is going to be old news .	但過去一年 , 經濟學的最頂端的故事是經濟學 , 我只是在說 , 很快就要是舊消息 。
so , what kind of stories might make a difference for the future ?	那麼 , 故事可能會造成改變未來的改變 ?
well , let's take science .	嗯 , 我們來看看科學 。
someday , little robots will go through our bloodstreams fixing things .	某天 , 小機器人會通過血液來解決我們的血液 。
that someday is already here if you're a mouse .	昨天已經在這裡了 , 如果你是個老鼠 。
some recent stories: nanobees zap tumors with real bee venom ; they're sending genes into the brain ; a robot they built that can crawl through the human body .	最近的故事:奈米生物分裂腫瘤的腫瘤 , 他們將基因送到大腦裡 ; 一個機器人可以透過人類身體內製造出來 。
what about resources ? how are we going to feed nine billion people ?	資源呢 ? 我們要如何餵飽九十億人 ?
we're having trouble feeding six billion today .	我們今天已經有麻煩了六十億人 。
as we heard yesterday , there's over a billion people hungry .	當我們昨天昨天聽到 , 有超過十億人飢餓 。
britain will starve without genetically modified crops .	英國人會盯著沒有基因上被動作 。
bill gates , fortunately , has bet a billion on [agricultural] research .	幸運的是 , 幸運的是 , 幸運的研究 。
what about global politics ?	全球政治政治呢 ?
the world's going to be very different when and if china sets the agenda , and they may .	世界將會非常不同時 , 如果中國設定了基因da , 他們可能是非常不同的 。
they've overtaken the u . s . as the world's biggest car market , they've overtaken germany as the largest exporter , and they've started doing dna tests on kids to choose their careers .	他們在美國最大的汽車市場上 , 如今世界最大的汽車市場 , 他們已經超過了德國最大的運動員 , 他們開始做dna測試 , 他們開始做dna測試 。
we're finding all kinds of ways to push back the limits of what we know .	我們在尋找各種方式來推動我們所知的各種方式 。
some recent discoveries: there's an ant colony from argentina that has now spread to every continent but antarctica ; there's a selfdirected robot scientist that's made a discovery soon , science may no longer need us , and life may no longer need us either ; a microbe wakes up after 120 , 000 years .	有些最近的發現:有一隻螞蟻從阿根根根廷傳播到每隻陸地上都有自動的機器人科學家 , 但南極有自動的機器人科學家 , 科學可能不再需要使用我們 , 生命可能不再需要使用我們 , 生命可能不再需要使用使用使用 , 生命 。
it seems that with or without us , life will go on .	似乎沒有我們 , 生命將會去做 。
but my pick for the top long news story of this past year was this one: water found on the moon .	但過去一年 , 我選擇了最頂尖的新聞故事是:在月球上發現月球 。
makes it a lot easier to put a colony up there .	讓蟻群變得更容易 。
and if nasa doesn't do it , china might , or somebody in this room might write a big check .	如果nasa不這麼做 , 中國可能 , 或在這個房間裡的人可能會寫一個大廚房 。
my point is this: in the long run , some news stories are more important than others .	我的重點是:在長期跑步 , 有些新故事比其他人還要重要 。
planetary scientist carolyn porco shows images from the cassini voyage to saturn , focusing on its largest moon , titan , and on frozen enceladus , which seems to shoot jets of ice .	地球科學家卡林•帕爾•帕爾斯展示了圖片 , 專注於它最大的月球、tan、tan、tan、tan、tan、tan、tan、s、tan、s、tan、i、tan、tan、tan、tan、tan、tan、tan、tan、tan、tan、san、t、tan、san、t、san、t
nasa , design , exploration , science , space , technology , universe , visualizations	太空sa、探索、探索、科學、太空、宇宙、視覺化、視覺化、視覺化 。
carolyn porco flies us to saturn	卡羅•帕羅斯教我們去法庭 。
in the next 18 minutes , i'm going to take you on a journey .	在接下來18分鐘內 , 我將帶給你們一個旅程 。
and it's a journey that you and i have been on for many years now , and it began some 50 years ago , when humans first stepped off our planet .	這是個旅程 , 我一直在過去幾年前 , 開始了一些五十年前 , 當人類第一次踏上我們的星球 。
and in those 50 years , not only did we literally , physically set foot on the moon , but we have dispatched robotic spacecraft to all the planets all eight of them and we have landed on asteroids , we have rendezvoused with comets , and , at this point in time , we have a spacecraft on its way to pluto , the body formerly known as a planet .	在過去五十年內 , 不僅是西方的 , 實體地設定在月球上 , 我們已經把機器人送到所有行星的太空船上 , 我們就有了一座飛行器 , 我們有重建了一座太空船 , 在這個時候 , 我們有一個太空船上的太空船 。
and all of these robotic missions are part of a bigger human journey: a voyage to understand something , to get a sense of our cosmic place , to understand something of our origins , and how earth , our planet , and we , living on it , came to be .	所有這些機械任務都是更大的人類旅程的一部分:一個投票去了解我們的宇宙 , 去了解我們的原始的地方 , 去了解我們的原始點 , 我們的生活 , 來到地球上 , 我們的生活 , 來到 。
and of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this , there's saturn . and we have been to saturn before we visited saturn in the early 1980s but our investigations of saturn have become far more indepth in detail since the cassini spacecraft , traveling across interplanetary space for seven years , glided into orbit around saturn in the summer of 2004 , and became at that point the farthest robotic outpost that humanity had ever established around the sun .	在太陽系中 , 我們可能去尋找答案 , 尋找答案 , 尋找答案 , 這裡有法庭 。 而我們一直在監獄之前 , 在1980年代初期 , 我們已經被監禁了法庭變得更深刻 , 因為我們的調查了太空船 , 從太空船到七年起 , 從太空船到2004年開始 。
now , the saturn system is a rich planetary system .	現在 , 土星系統是一個豐富的行星系統 。
it offers mystery , scientific insight and obviously splendor beyond compare , and the investigation of this system has enormous cosmic reach .	它提供了神秘、科學、科學、科學的研究 , 很明顯地 , 而這個系統的調查 , 這項系統有很大的宇宙 。
in fact , just studying the rings alone , we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies .	事實上 , 我們只是研究星系和星系之間的距離 , 我們稱之為 「 精神銀河系 」 。
and here's a beautiful picture of the andromeda nebula , which is our closest , largest spiral galaxy to the milky way .	這是一張美麗的照片和布拉斯的美麗照片 , 這是我們最親密的銀河系 , 最大的精神銀河系 。
and then , here's a beautiful composite of the whirlpool galaxy , taken by the hubble space telescope .	然後 , 這是一個漂亮的石油銀河系 , 由哈伯太空望遠鏡拍攝的 。
so the journey back to saturn is really part of and is also a metaphor for a much larger human voyage to understand the interconnectedness of everything around us , and also how humans fit into that picture .	所以旅程回到法庭的旅程 , 也是一個大型人類投票的一部分 , 來了解我們周遭的所有事物 , 以及人類如何融入這張照片 。
and it pains me that i can't tell you all that we have learned with cassini .	讓我告訴各位 , 我無法告訴各位我們我們 , 和貓咪學到的 。
i can't show you all the beautiful pictures that we've taken in the last two and a half years , because i simply don't have the time .	我不能展示給各位看的美麗照片 , 過去兩年半的時間 , 因為我只是沒有時間 。
so i'm going to concentrate on two of the most exciting stories that have emerged out of this major exploratory expedition that we are conducting around saturn , and have been for the past two and a half years .	所以我要將近兩年最令人興奮的故事 , 最令人興奮的故事是 , 我們在法庭上有兩年半的探討 , 過去兩年半的時間 。
saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons .	法庭是一個非常大的、非常多版本的月球 。
they range in size from a few kilometers across to as big across as the u . s .	他們從幾公里的大小 , 到美國大小的尺寸 。
most of the beautiful pictures we've taken of saturn , in fact , show saturn in accompaniment with some of its moons . here's saturn with dione , and then , here's saturn showing the rings edgeon , showing you just how vertically thin they are , with the moon enceladus .	事實上 , 我們大部分的美麗照片中拍攝的 , 事實上 , 滿滿滿滿月球 。 這是土星的土星 。 這是土星的土星 , 然後 , 這是土星的土星 。
now , two of the 47 moons that saturn has are standouts .	現在 , 第四7月47月47月47日 。
and those are titan and enceladus . titan is saturn's largest moon , and , until cassini had arrived there , was the largest single expanse of unexplored terrain that we had remaining in our solar system .	而這些不是西班牙和伊拉斯坦是土星最大的月球 , 直到洞穴裡 , 直到洞穴裡 , 直到洞穴中 , 最大的單一部分 。
and it is a body that has long intrigued people who've watched the planets .	這是個體 , 一個身體已經長期了很長的身體 。
it has a very large , thick atmosphere , and in fact , its surface environment was believed to be more like the environment we have here on the earth , or at least had in the past , than any other body in the solar system .	事實上 , 它有一個非常大的厚度 , 事實上 , 它表面環境的表面 , 表面環境的環境 , 或至少在過去 , 至少在太陽系中 , 比其他身體中任何身體的身體 。
its atmosphere is largely molecular nitrogen , like you are breathing here in this room , except that its atmosphere is suffused with simple organic materials like methane and propane and ethane .	大氣層很大的分子 , 就像你在這個房間裡呼吸 , 例如你在這個房間裡 , 除了它簡單的機械材料 , 比如甲烷和財富一樣 。
and these molecules high up in the atmosphere of titan get broken down , and their products join together to make haze particles .	而這些分子在大氣中 , 這些分子在大氣中被破壞 , 他們的產品加起來 , 一起加入粒子 。
this haze is ubiquitous . it's completely global and enveloping titan .	這個習慣是全球和鼓舞 。 它完全是全球和鼓舞 。
and that's why you cannot see down to the surface with our eyes in the visible region of the spectrum .	這就是為什麼你無法看待我們眼睛的表面 。
but these haze particles , it was surmised , before we got there with cassini , over billions and billions of years , gently drifted down to the surface and coated the surface in a thick organic sludge .	但這些討厭粒子 , 在我們和洞穴之前 , 在我們和洞穴中 , 有超過十億年 , 很高興 , 很高興 , 在厚厚厚厚的地面上 。
so like the equivalent , the titan equivalent , of tar , or oil , or what we didn't know what .	所以像平靜 , 西班牙牙人 , 或石油 , 或石油 , 我們不知道什麼 。
but this is what we suspected . and these molecules , especially methane and ethane , can be liquids at the surface temperatures of titan .	但這就是我們被尊重了 , 這些分子 , 特別是甲烷和乙烷 , 可以液態液態溫度的溫度 。
and so it turns out that methane is to titan what water is to the earth .	所以結果發現 , 甲烷是要把水帶到地球上 。
it's a condensable in the atmosphere , and so recognizing this circumstance brought to the fore a whole world of bizarre possibilities . you can have methane clouds , ok , and above those clouds , you have this hundreds of kilometers of haze , which prevent any sunlight from getting to the surface .	這是大氣中的大氣中 , 所以認知這個圓圈 , 所以認知這條圓圈帶到整個世界各地的可能性 。 你可以遇到許多奇怪的可能性 。 你可以遇到雲朵 , 好 , 你有幾百公里的雲朵 , 你有幾百公里的陽光 。
the temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero fahrenheit .	表面的溫度有350度的溫度是0度的0度 。
but despite that cold , you could have rain falling down on the surface of titan .	但儘管如此 , 你可能有雨水的表面上 。
and doing on titan what rain does on the earth: it carves gullies ; it forms rivers and cataracts ; it can create canyons ; it can pool in large basins and craters .	地球上的雨林在地球上做什麼:它會形成河流 ; 它形成河流 , 形成河流 , 可以創造出超越大的細菌和螃蟹 。
it can wash the sludge off high mountain peaks and hills , down into the lowlands . so stop and think for a minute .	它可以引起高山山脈的高山山 , 到低地下 , 停下來 , 停下來 , 停下來 , 停下來思考一下 。
try to imagine what the surface of titan might look like .	試著想像一下 , 英國的表面是什麼樣子 。
it's dark . high noon on titan is as dark as deep earth twilight on the earth .	它是黑暗的 , 高隆在地球上最深的地球上 。
it's cold , it's eerie , it's misty , it might be raining , and you might be standing on the shores of lake michigan brimming with paint thinner .	它很冷 , 很糟糕 , 它錯失了 , 可能是雨林的 , 你可能站在湖泊上 , 你可能站在湖泊上 。
that is the view that we had of the surface of titan before we got there with cassini , and i can tell you that what we have found on titan , though it is not the same in detail , is every bit as fascinating as that story is .	這就是我們在西班牙的表面 , 我可以告訴各位 , 我們在西班牙的表面 , 但我可以告訴各位 , 我們在西班牙所發現的 , 一切都不一樣 。
and for us , it has been like the cassini people it has been like a jules verne adventure come true .	對我們來說 , 它就像是貓一樣的貓一樣 。
as i said , it has a thick , extensive atmosphere .	如我所說的 , 它有一個厚度的大氣 。
this is a picture of titan , backlit by the sun , with the rings as a beautiful backdrop .	這是一幅西班牙 , 由太陽系的圖片 , 隨著一個漂亮的背景 。
and yet another moon there i don't even know which one it is . it's a very extensive atmosphere .	然而另一個月球 , 我甚至不知道哪個月球是非常昂貴的大氣 。
we have instruments on cassini which can see down to the surface through this atmosphere , and my camera system is one of them .	我們在柬埔寨的基礎設施 , 可以透過這個大氣層表面上 , 我的攝影機是其中之一 。
and we have taken pictures like this .	我們拍攝像這樣的照片 。
and what you see is bright and dark regions , and that's about as far as it got for us .	而你所看到的是很明亮且黑暗區域的 , 那就是我們為我們帶來的 。
it was so mystifying: we couldn't make out what we were seeing on titan .	這是我太太太太太棒了 , 我們不能搞清楚我們所看到的 。
when you look closer at this region , you start to see things like sinuous channels we didn't know . you see a few round things .	當你仔細觀察這個區域時 , 你就開始看到一些類似的椅子 , 我們也不知道 。 你可以看到一些圓形的東西 。
this , we later found out , is , in fact , a crater , but there are very few craters on the surface of titan , meaning it's a very young surface .	這之後 , 我們發現了 , 是 , 事實上 , 一個螃蟹的表面上很少 , 意思是 , 非常年輕的表面 。
and there are features that look tectonic .	有些特徵顯示昆蟲的昆蟲 。
they look like they've been pulled apart .	他們看起來像他們一樣被綁架了 。
whenever you see anything linear on a planet , it means there's been a fracture , like a fault .	當你在地球上看到任何東西時 , 它意味著有框架 , 就像一個公平 。
and so it's been tectonically altered .	所以它一直被偵測出來 。
but we couldn't make sense of our images , until , six months after we got into orbit , an event occurred that many have regarded as the highlight of cassini's investigation of titan .	但我們無法理解我們的影像 , 直到 , 直到 , 六個月後 , 一個事件發生在西班牙的高度中 , 許多人都被忽略了 。
and that was the deployment of the huygens probe , the europeanbuilt huygens probe that cassini had carried for seven years across the solar system . we deployed it to the atmosphere of titan , it took two and a half hours to descend , and it landed on the surface .	這就是huygengeneygenebe , 歐洲布萊恩•布萊恩•布萊恩•布萊恩 , 讓它傳到太陽系的大氣層 , 我們將它送到dan的大氣層 , 花了兩半小時 , 一半小時 , 它就在表面上了 。
and i just want to emphasize how significant an event this is .	我只想讓大家了解到這一點是多麼重要 。
this is a device of human making , and it landed in the outer solar system for the first time in human history .	這是人類製造的裝置 , 而且它在人類歷史上第一次的太陽系 。
it is so significant that , in my mind , this was an event that should have been celebrated with ticker tape parades in every city across the u . s . and europe , and sadly , that wasn't the case .	這是我腦袋裡 , 在我的腦袋裡 , 這是個不應該被慶祝 , 在美國各地的城市裡 , 很幸運的是 , 而歐洲、歐洲、歐洲、歐洲、歐洲、和歐洲 , 很幸運的是 , 這不是案例 。
it was significant for another reason . this is an international mission , and this event was celebrated in europe , in germany , and the celebratory presentations were given in english accents , and american accents , and german accents , and french and italian and dutch accents .	另一個原因是 , 國際任務 , 這是個國際任務 , 而這位事件被慶祝 , 在德國 , 在德國 , 在德國 , 慶祝了一世紀 , 美國人在英文中 , 法國和德國 , 法國和德國人 。
it was a moving demonstration of what the words " united nations " are supposed to mean: a true union of nations joined together in a colossal effort for good .	這是個關於 「 聯合國 」 的描述 「 聯合國 」 的國家 , 應該是說:一個真正的努力 。
and , in this case , it was a massive undertaking to explore a planet , and to come to understand a planetary system that , for all of human history , had been unreachable , and now humans had actually touched it .	在這個案例中 , 它是個巨大的潛水系統 , 來了解人類歷史 , 對於所有人類歷史的歷史 , 一直都無法觸碰它 。
so it was i mean , i'm getting goose bumps just talking about it .	所以我說 , 我是說 , 我要去談它 。
it was a tremendously emotional event , and it's something that i will personally never forget , and you shouldn't either .	這是個很棒的情緒事件事件 , 我絕對不會忘記 , 你不應該忘忘記 , 你不應該忘記 。
but anyway , the probe took measurements of the atmosphere on the way down , and it also took panoramic pictures .	但 , 無論如何 , 進化到大氣層上 , 它也用了panamic照片來測量 。
and i can't tell you what it was like to see the first pictures of titan's surface from the probe . and this is what we saw .	我不能告訴各位 , 英國最喜歡的照片 , 這是我們所看到的第一張照片 。 這就是我們所看到的 。
and it was a shocker , because it was everything we wanted those other pictures taken from orbit to be .	這是個震驚者 , 因為這是我們想要這些其他照片拍攝的照片 。
it was an unambiguous pattern , a geological pattern .	這是一個無名的模式 , 一個地理模式 。
it's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids .	這是個典型的演算法 , 可以用液態的形式 , 只有液體流動 。
and you can follow these channels and you can see how they all converge .	你可以遵循這些混亂 , 你可以看到它們所有的內容 。
and they converge into this channel here , which drains into this region .	他們把這張椅子轉進這個區域 , 讓這個區域變成了這個區域 。
you are looking at a shoreline .	你正在看一個鞋子 。
was this a shoreline of fluids ? we didn't know .	這是一系列流感嗎 ? 我們不知道 。
but this is somewhat of a shoreline .	但這也是一些鞋子 。
this picture is taken at 16 kilometers .	這張照片是在16公里拍攝的 。
this is the picture taken at eight kilometers , ok ? again , the shoreline .	這是8公里的照片 , 好嗎 ? 再次 , 好嗎 ? 再一次 , 鞋子 。
okay , now , 16 kilometers , eight kilometers this is roughly an airline altitude .	好 , 現在 , 16公里 , 16公里 , 八公里是空氣線線線索 。
if you were going to take an airplane trip across the u . s . , you would be flying at these altitudes .	如果你要在美國飛機上飛機飛機飛行器 , 你就會在飛機上飛行 。
so , this is the picture you would have at the window of titanian airlines as you fly across the surface of titan .	所以 , 這是你在西班牙航空的窗戶 , 如你在西班牙的表面 。
and then finally , the probe came to rest on the surface , and i'm going to show you , ladies and gentlemen , the first picture ever taken from the surface of a moon in the outer solar system .	最後 , 演員開始恢復表面 , 我要給各位看 , 女士和glemen , 第一個照片來自太陽系表面上的月球表面 。
and here is the horizon , ok ?	這是馬遜 , 好嗎 ?
these are probably water ice pebbles , yes ?	這些可能是水冰的 , 是嗎 ?
and obviously , it landed in one of these flat , dark regions and it didn't sink out of sight . so it wasn't fluid that we landed in .	很明顯地 , 它在其中一塊黑暗區域 , 黑暗區域並沒有那麼明亮 。 所以這不是我們在陸地上 。
what the probe came down in was basically the titan equivalent of a mud flat .	基本上 , 基本上 , 基本上 , 基本上是mud的 。
this is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane .	這是個不合理的地面 , 是沒有液態的甲烷 。
and it's probably the case that this material has washed off the highlands of titan through these channels that we saw , and has drained over billions of years to fill in lowlying basins .	這可能是這材料被破壞了 , 由這些鏈接到我們所看到的 , 並且有超過十億年的時間 , 讓細菌填滿了超過十億年 。
and that is what the huygens probe landed in .	這就是飢餓的原因 。
but still , there was no sign in our images , or even in the huygens' images , of any large , open bodies of fluids .	但仍然 , 我們的影像中沒有信號 , 甚至在飢餓的影像 , 開放的液體 。
where were they ? it got even more puzzling when we found dunes .	他們在哪裡呢 ? 更令人驚訝 , 當我們找到蜜蜂 。
ok , so this is our movie of the equatorial region of titan , showing these dunes . these are dunes that are 100 meters tall , separated by a few kilometers , and they go on for miles and miles and miles .	好吧 , 這是我們的平方程式的電影 , 展示這些塵埃 , 顯示這些塵埃 , 這些塵塵塵埃 , 分開了100公尺 , 分離了幾公里 。
there's hundreds , up to a 1 , 000 or 1 , 200 miles of dunes .	有數百 , 上升到一萬或1 , 200英哩 。
this is the saharan desert of titan .	這是撒哈拉沙漠的沙漠 。
it's obviously a place which is very dry , or you wouldn't get dunes .	顯然是非常乾燥 , 或者你不會得到塵埃 。
so again , it got puzzling that there were no bodies of fluid , until finally , we saw lakes in the polar regions .	再一次 , 它得到了驚喜 , 直到終於 , 直到最後 , 我們看到湖泊裡的湖泊裡 。
and there is a lake scene in the south polar region of titan .	南極地區有一個湖泊在南極地區 。
it's about the size of lake ontario .	這是關於亞利斯的大小湖泊的大小 。
and then , only a week and a half ago , we flew over the north pole of titan and found , again , we found a feature here the size of the caspian sea .	然後 , 只有一週半前 , 我們在西班牙的北極 , 再次 , 我們找到了一個特徵的特徵 。
so it seems that the liquids , for some reason we don't understand , or during at least this season , are apparently at the poles of titan .	所以 , 看起來像是液體 , 我們不知道 , 或者至少這季節 , 至少在這個季節中 , 很顯然地在西班牙 。
and i think you would agree that we have found titan is a remarkable , mystical place . it's exotic , it's alien , but yet strangely earthlike , and having earthlike geological formations and a tremendous geographical diversity , and is a fascinating world whose only rival in the solar system for complexity and richness is the earth itself .	我認為你們會同意 , 我們發現了titan是一個很棒的、我的神秘的地方 。 這是個很棒的 , 但卻很奇怪 , 但卻很奇怪 , 但卻很奇怪的地理形式 , 以及地球上的各樣性 。
and so now we go onto enceladus . enceladus is a small moon , it's about a tenth the size of titan . and you can see it here next to england , just to show you the size . this is not meant to be a threat .	所以現在 , 我們去了這句話 , 斯拉博士是小月球的大小月亮 , 你可以看到下一個英國的大小 , 你可以看到下一個英格蘭 , 這不是要是威脅 。
and enceladus is very white , it's very bright , and its surface is obviously wrecked with fractures .	伊斯蘭人非常聰明 , 它表面非常聰明 , 而且表面很顯然 , 表面很顯然 。
it is a very geologically active body .	這是個非常合理的身體 。
but the mother lode of discoveries on enceladus was found at the south pole and we're looking at the south pole here where we found this system of fractures .	但 , 伊斯蘭的母親失去發現 , 南極的發現我們在南極南極的框架 。
and they're a different color because they're a different composition .	他們是不同的顏色 , 因為他們是不同的 。
they are coated . these fractures are coated with organic materials .	他們被複製出來 , 這些框架和有機材料 。
moreover , this whole , entire region , the south polar region , has elevated temperatures . it's the hottest place on the planet , on the body .	更好的是 , 整個區域 , 南極地區 , 南極地區的溫度溫度 。 它不是地球上最熱的溫度 。
that's as bizarre as finding that the antarctic on the earth is hotter than the tropics .	這是地球上最奇怪的發現 , 比川普比悲劇還要熱門 。
and then , when we took additional pictures , we discovered that from these fractures are issuing jets of fine , icy particles extending hundreds of miles into space .	接著 , 當我們把這些框架放在這些框架中 , 我們發現 , 從這些框架中發現 , 粒子在空間中 , 粒子在空間中 。
and when we colorcode this image , to bring out the faint light levels , we see that these jets feed a plume that , in fact , we see , in other images , goes thousands of miles into the space above enceladus .	當我們用顏色編碼這個圖像時 , 我們看到這些噴射器 , 事實上 , 我們看到這些噴射器 , 事實上 , 在其他影像中 , 在其他影像中看到的 , 經過數千英里 。
my team and i have examined images like this , and like this one , and have thought about the other results from cassini .	我的團隊和我的團隊一樣 , 像這樣 , 就像這樣 , 再想一下 , 從柬埔寨開始思考其他結果 。
and we have arrived at the conclusion that these jets may be erupting from pockets of liquid water under the surface of enceladus .	我們在這個結論中 , 這些猶太人可能被拆除出來的液體可能被拆掉的液體表面
so we have , possibly , liquid water , organic materials and excess heat .	所以我們有 , 可能 , 液態水、有機材料、有機材料和外面的熱能 。
in other words , we have possibly stumbled upon the holy grail of modern day planetary exploration , or in other words , an environment that is potentially suitable for living organisms .	換句話說 , 我們有可能可能在現代的星球探索 , 或換句話說 , 可能是永續生物探索的環境 。
and i don't think i need to tell you that the discovery of life elsewhere in our solar system , whether it be on enceladus or elsewhere , would have enormous cultural and scientific implications .	我不認為我需要告訴各位 , 在太陽系中其他地方 , 無論它在奴隸制度或其他地方 , 都會有很大的文化和科學進步 。
because if we could demonstrate that genesis had occurred not once , but twice , independently , in our solar system , then that means , by inference , it has occurred a staggering number of times throughout the universe and its 13 . 7 billion year history .	因為如果我們可以展現這個基因噪音已經發生了 , 但在我們的太陽系中 , 獨立地 , 在我們的太陽系中 , 這意味著 , 在我們的太陽系中 , 它已經發生了一倍 , 它已經發生了十三倍 。
right now , earth is the only planet still that we know is teeming with life .	現在 , 地球是唯一的行星仍然存在著生命 。
it is precious , it is unique , it is still , so far , the only home we've ever known .	很棒 , 它還是獨特 , 它仍然是如此 , 我們唯一知道的 。
and if any of you were alert and coherent during the 1960s and we'd forgive you , if you weren't , ok you would remember this very famous picture taken by the apollo 8 astronauts in 1968 .	如果你們在19608年時 , 你就會忘記你 , 如果你不認同你 , 你就會記得這個非常有名的照片 , 由阿波波波波波波羅8年拍攝的照片 。
it was the first time that earth was imaged from space , and it had an enormous impact on our sense of place in the universe , and our sense of responsibility for the protection of our own planet .	這是地球上第一次 , 地球的影像 , 它有很大的影響力 , 而我們對地球的責任 , 我們的責任 。
well , we on cassini have taken an equivalent first , a picture that no human eye has ever seen before .	嗯 , 我們在柬埔寨拍攝的第一張照片 , 沒有人看過 。
it is a total eclipse of the sun , seen from the other side of saturn .	這是太陽 , 太陽的另一端 , 從土星的另一端 , 從土星的另一端 。
and in this impossibly beautiful picture , you see the main rings backlit by the sun , you see the refracted image of the sun and you see this ring created , in fact , by the exhalations of enceladus .	在這個不可能的照片中 , 你看到的是太陽系的主要節奏 , 你看到這張節奏的圖像 , 你看到這張節奏 , 事實上 , 由伊斯蘭斯蘭的圖像 。
but as if that weren't brilliant enough , we can spot , in this beautiful image , sight of our own planet , cradled in the arms of saturn's rings .	但如果那不是太棒了 , 我們就能在這個美麗的圖像 , 在土星中 , 瘋狂的亮度 , 瘋狂的角度 。
now , there is something deeply moving about seeing ourselves from afar , and capturing the sight of our little , blueocean planet in the skies of other worlds .	現在 , 有件很深刻地移動我們小小、捕捉我們自己的小小、藍色的星球 , 在其他世界各地 。
and that , and the perspective of ourselves that we gain from that , may be , in the end , the finest reward that we earn from this journey of discovery that started half a century ago .	此外 , 我們自己從那一開始 , 可能是 , 在最後 , 最好的獎勵 , 在一半世紀前 , 我們從這個旅程開始 。
as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped . this slows the delivery of aid after a disaster and hides the economic potential of unused lands and unknown roads . in this short talk , google's lalitesh katragadda demos map maker , a group mapmaking tool that people around the globe are using to map their world .	2005年 , 世界上只有15%的援助 , 這種緩慢的速度 , 隱藏和隱藏的經濟潛力和未知道路的經濟潛力 , 在這個短演講中 , 谷歌是拉丁美洲的地圖 , google是一群地圖 , 一群地圖 , 一群人在地圖上 。
collaboration , design , map , technology	合作、設計、地圖、地圖、技術、技術、技術、技術 。
lalitesh katragadda: making maps to fight disaster , build economies	晚餐katragada:讓地圖來抵抗災 , 建立經濟體系 。
in 2008 , cyclone nargis devastated myanmar .	2008年 , 循環了我的anmarargieararargie 。
millions of people were in severe need of help .	數百萬人在秘密需要幫助 。
the u . n . wanted to rush people and supplies to the area .	英國人 , 想要打破人們和供應到區域 。
but there were no maps , no maps of roads , no maps showing hospitals , no way for help to reach the cyclone victims .	但沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖顯示醫院的地圖 , 沒有幫助到達循環 。
when we look at a map of los angeles or london , it is hard to believe that as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geocodable level of detail .	當我們看著洛杉磯的地圖或倫敦的地圖 , 很難相信 , 在2005年 , 只有15% , 世界上只有15%的細節 。
the u . n . ran headfirst into a problem that the majority of the world's populous faces: not having detailed maps .	美國 , 伊朗總統 , 伊朗總統的問題是 , 世界上大部分的臉孔:沒有細節的地圖 。
but help was coming .	但幫助是來到來的 。
at google , 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120 , 000 kilometers of roads , 3 , 000 hospitals , logistics and relief points .	在google , 40個志工使用一個新的軟體 , 到一萬公里 , 000公里醫院、邏輯和宗教信仰 。
and it took them four days .	它花了四天的時間 。
the new software they used ? google mapmaker .	新軟體會使用嗎 ? googlemakerer 。
google mapmaker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally .	googlemakerer是一項科技 , 我們每個人都知道當地地圖 。
people have used this software to map everything from roads to rivers , from schools to local businesses , and video stores to the corner store .	人們用這種軟體來描述河流 , 從學校到當地商業 , 從學校到珊瑚店到珊瑚店 。
nobel prize nominee hernando de soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land .	諾貝爾獎獎獎勵她的兒子 , 讓大部分開發中國家的關鍵 , 就是經濟上的限制 , 將大部分開發中國家都要處理最大的土地 。
for example , a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapitalized in india alone .	舉例來說 , 一兆美元在印度 , 單單單單獨化 。
in the last year alone , thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information , and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable .	在過去一年 , 數千個使用者在170個國家裡 , 創造了數百萬件資訊 , 創造了一層細節從來沒有想過 。
and this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere .	這可能是有熱情使用者的力量 。
let's look at some of the maps being created by users right now .	讓我們來看看一些地圖被使用者創造出來的地點 。
so , as we speak , people are mapping the world in these 170 countries .	所以 , 當我們說話 , 人們在這個1770個國家 。
you can see bridget in africa who just mapped a road in senegal .	你可以看到在奈及利亞的非洲人 。
and , closer to home , chalua , an n . g . road in bangalore .	更接近回家 , 查爾 , 一個n.g , 在孟加爾 。
this is the result of computational geometry , gesture recognition , and machine learning .	這是計算機組成的結果 , 溫度認知、機器學習 。
this is a victory of thousands of users , in hundreds of cities , one user , one edit at a time .	這是數千個使用者 , 在數百個城市裡 , 其中一個使用者 , 其中一個編輯 。
this is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet .	這是一個邀請地球70%的未被應用在地球上 。
welcome to the new world .	歡迎到新世界 。
in 2003 , the palestinian village of budrus mounted a 10monthlong nonviolent protest to stop a barrier being built across their olive groves . did you hear about it ? didn't think so . brazilian filmmaker julia bacha asks why we only pay attention to violence in the israelpalestine conflict and not to the nonviolent leaders who may one day bring peace .	2003年 , 巴勒斯坦的村落 , 巴勒斯坦的村落 , 巴勒斯坦的抗議 , 你聽見了嗎 ? 不認為 , 巴西的電影會問:為什麼我們只注意到 , 巴西的電影 , 沒有人會注意到 , 我們只關注暴力和平 。
arts , communication , compassion , entertainment , film , peace , violence , war	藝術、溝通、同情、娛樂、娛樂、電影、暴力、暴力、暴力、戰爭、暴力、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭
julia bacha: pay attention to nonviolence	朱利亞•巴克:注意到非暴力暴力 。
for the last 8 years , i have dedicated my life to documenting the work of israelis and palestinians who are trying to end the conflict using peaceful means .	過去8年來 , 我已經被描述了我的人生 , 就是rael和巴勒斯坦和巴勒斯坦人使用和平靜的意義 。
when i travel with my work across europe and the united states , one question always comes up: where is the palestinian gandhi ?	當我和美國各地的工作時 , 其中一個問題總是出現:哪裡是巴勒斯坦甘地 ?
why aren't palestinians using nonviolent resistance ?	為什麼不是巴勒斯坦使用非暴力抗拒 ?
the challenge i face when i hear this question is that often i have just returned from the middle east where i spent my time filming dozens of palestinians who are using nonviolence to defend their lands and water resources from israeli soldiers and settlers .	當我聽到這個問題時 , 我常常常從中東東的挑戰是 , 我花了幾十個巴勒斯坦人使用非暴力來保護他們的土地和水資源來自伊拉利利亞和水資源 。
these leaders are trying to forge a massive national nonviolent movement to end the occupation and build peace in the region .	這些領導人正在試圖忘記一個巨大的國家非暴力運動 , 最終在區域中建立和平靜 。
yet , most of you have probably never heard about them .	然而 , 大多數人可能從來沒有聽過他們 。
this divide between what's happening on the ground and perceptions abroad is one of the key reasons why we don't have yet a palestinian peaceful resistance movement that has been successful .	這個距離在地面和感知之間的距離是關鍵原因之一之一 , 我們還沒有一個巴勒斯坦和平的抗議運動之一之一 。
so i'm here today to talk about the power of attention , the power of your attention , and the emergence and development of nonviolent movements in the west bank , gaza and elsewhere but today , my case study is going to be palestine .	所以我今天來談注意力的力量 , 談到你的注意力的力量 , 以及非暴力運動、加薩、加薩、加薩和其他地方 , 但我的研究將會是巴勒斯坦 。
i believe that what's mostly missing for nonviolence to grow is not for palestinians to start adopting nonviolence , but for us to start paying attention to those who already are .	我相信 , 大部分是不暴力的 , 成長並不是為了巴勒斯坦人開始採取非暴力 , 而是為了我們開始注意到那些已經開始注意到這些人 。
allow me to illustrate this point by taking you to this village called budrus .	讓我向各位介紹這個村落叫做budrudrudrudrudrudrus 。
about seven years ago , they faced extinction , because israel announced it would build a separation barrier , and part of this barrier would be built on top of the village .	大約七年前 , 他們面臨滅絕 , 因為伊拉爾宣佈它會建立一個分離障礙 , 而這條條障礙的一部分 。
they would lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded , so they would lose free access to the rest of the west bank .	他們會失去40%的土地 , 會失去40% , 所以他們會失去西方銀行 。
through inspired local leadership , they launched a peaceful resistance campaign to stop that from happening .	透過啟發當地領導力 , 他們發了一個和平靜的活動 , 來阻止它發生 。
let me show you some brief clips , so you have a sense for what that actually looked like on the ground .	讓我給各位看一些很棒的診斷 , 所以你對地面上看起來像在地面上 。
palestinian woman: we were told the wall would separate palestine from israel .	巴勒斯坦婦女:我們要告訴牆壁會分開巴勒斯坦 。
here in budrus , we realized the wall would steal our land .	在布魯德魯德 , 我們意識到牆上 ,
israeli man: the fence has , in fact , created a solution to terror .	事實上 , 伊莉莎:f句子已經創造了一個解決恐怖的解決方案 。
man: today you're invited to a peaceful march .	曼:今天你邀請到一個和平靜的火星 。
you are joined by dozens of your israeli brothers and sisters .	你被加入了數十億人和姐妹妹 。
israeli activist: nothing scares the army more than nonviolent opposition .	伊拉利斯主義者:任何東西比非暴力的相反 。
woman: we saw the men trying to push the soldiers , but none of them could do that .	女人:我們看到男人試圖把士兵打開 , 但沒有人能做到 。
but i think the girls could do it .	但我認為女孩可以做到 。
fatah party member: we must empty our minds of traditional thinking .	假如黨派:我們必須擁抱傳統思想 。
hamas party member: we were in complete harmony , and we wanted to spread it to all of palestine .	哈瑪黨派:我們在完全討厭它 , 我們想要傳播它 。
chanting: one united nation .	查爾:一個聯合國 。
fatah , hamas and the popular front !	假如 , 哈馬和詩人面前 !
news anchor: the clashes over the fence continue .	新chor:在果蠅持續下去 。
reporter: israeli border police were sent to disperse the crowd .	記者:伊拉利蘭警察被送到群眾 。
they were allowed to use any force necessary .	他們允許使用任何力量 。
man: these are live bullets .	曼:這些是肝臟 。
it's like fallujah . shooting everywhere .	就像秋天 , 每處都在拍攝任何地方 。
israeli activist: i was sure we were all going to die .	伊拉利斯主義者:我相信我們都死了 。
but there were others around me who weren't even cowering .	但還有其他地方 , 我甚至沒有在牛肉身上 。
israeli soldier: a nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear] .	伊拉利斯:一個非暴力抗議的抗議不會阻止 「 非暴力 」 。
protester: this is a peaceful march .	克里斯:這是個非常平靜的火星 。
there is no need to use violence .	沒有需要使用暴力 。
chanting: we can do it ! we can do it !	查理:我們可以做到 ! 我們可以做到 ! 我們可以做到 !
julia bacha: when i first heard about the story of budrus , i was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago , in 2003 .	朱利亞基斯•巴克:當我第一次聽過國際媒體的故事 , 我很驚訝的是 , 國際媒體失敗了非凡的事件 , 在2003年之前 ,
what was even more surprising was the fact that budrus was successful .	更令人驚訝的是 , 布魯德病毒已經成功了 。
the residents , after 10 months of peaceful resistance , convinced the israeli government to move the route of the barrier off their lands and to the green line , which is the internationally recognized boundary between israel and the palestinian territories .	在過去10個月後 , 和平靜的抗拒後 , 相信伊拉斯蘭政府搬到他們的土地和綠線之間 , 以色列和綠線之間 , 國際關係是國際組織和巴勒斯坦人之間 。
the resistance in budrus has since spread to villages across the west bank and to palestinian neighborhoods in jerusalem .	布魯德的抗拒已經從西方移到西方的鄰居和巴勒斯坦鄰居的鄰居 。
yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories .	然而媒體仍然在這些故事上 ,
this silence carries profound consequences for the likelihood that nonviolence can grow , or even survive , in palestine .	這種寂靜的卡路里很深刻的後果 , 沒有暴力可以成長 , 甚至甚至存活下來 , 在巴勒斯坦 。
violent resistance and nonviolent resistance share one very important thing in common ; they are both a form of theater seeking an audience to their cause .	暴力抗拒 , 非暴力抗拒和非暴力抗拒分享一個很重要的事情 , 他們兩者都是一種劇場的形式 。
if violent actors are the only ones constantly getting frontpage covers and attracting international attention to the palestinian issue , it becomes very hard for nonviolent leaders to make the case to their communities that civil disobedience is a viable option in addressing their plight .	如果暴力的演員是唯一的 , 只有一個持續的勇氣和吸引國際注意力 , 並吸引國際議題 , 它變得非常困難 , 讓非暴力領導者能夠讓他們的社區變得更難以置信 。
the power of attention is probably going to come as no surprise to the parents in the room .	注意力的力量可能是沒有驚訝的父母 。
the surest way to make your child throw increasingly louder tantrums is by giving him attention the first time he throws a fit .	要讓你的孩子變得越來越大的挫折 , 就是藉由給他孩子的第一次他注意力 。
the tantrum will become what childhood psychologists call a functional behavior , since the child has learned that he can get parental attention out of it .	trummmms會成為童年心理學家稱之為 「 功能行為 」 的孩子發現 , 他可以得到父母的注意力 。
parents can incentivize or disincentivize behavior simply by giving or withdrawing attention to their children .	父母可以激勵或分散行為 , 只是透過給孩子的注意力 , 只是透過他們的孩子的注意力 。
but that's true for adults too .	但這也是如此 。
in fact , the behavior of entire communities and countries can be influenced , depending on where the international community chooses to focus its attention .	事實上 , 整個社區和國家的行為行為 , 可以在國際社群中 , 決定專注在國際社區中選擇專注 。
i believe that at the core of ending the conflict in the middle east and bringing peace is for us to transform nonviolence into a functional behavior by giving a lot more attention to the nonviolent leaders on the ground today .	我相信在中東 , 在中東的核心 , 帶給我們非暴力的核心是為了改變非暴力的行為行為 , 讓我們更注意力 , 今天的非暴力領導人 。
in the course of taking my film to villages in the west bank , in gaza and in east jerusalem , i have seen the impact that even one documentary film can have in influencing the transformation .	在西方的過程中 , 拍攝我的電影 , 在加薩和東京 , 在加薩和東京的電影中 , 我看過 , 即使有一個文件可以影響轉變 。
in a village called wallajeh , which sits very close to jerusalem , the community was facing a very similar plight to budrus .	在一個村莊中 , 這個村莊非常近的猶太人 , 社區正在面對一個非常相似的飛行器 。
they were going to be surrounded , lose a lot of their lands and not have freedom of access , either to the west bank or jerusalem .	他們將會被監控、失去許多土地 , 失去許多土地 , 而沒有免費的自由 , 或猶太人 。
they had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention .	他們一直在用非暴力的兩年 , 但從沒有人注意力 , 因為沒有人在乎注意力 。
so we organized a screening .	所以我們組織化了一個螢幕 。
a week later , they held the most wellattended and disciplined demonstration to date .	一週後 , 他們告訴了最好的證明 , 最好的展示 。
the organizers say that the villagers , upon seeing the story of budrus documented in a film , felt that there were indeed people following what they were doing , that people cared .	組織者說 , 村莊裡看到了佛羅德的故事 , 看到在電影中的故事中 , 人們在追隨他們所做的 , 人們在追蹤他們所做的 。
so they kept on going .	所以他們繼續下去 。
on the israeli side , there is a new peace movement called solidariot , which means solidarity in hebrew .	在伊拉利亞 , 有一種新的和平靜運動 , 意思是 , 意思是 , 意思是 , 很可怕的 。
the leaders of this movement have been using budrus as one of their primary recruiting tools .	這項運動的領導者一直在使用虐待工具之一 。
they report that israelis who had never been active before , upon seeing the film , understand the power of nonviolence and start joining their activities .	他們報告是raelisisis從來沒有活躍 , 看電影 , 了解非暴力的力量 , 開始加入他們的活動 。
the examples of wallajeh and the solidariot movement show that even a smallbudget independent film can play a role in transforming nonviolence into a functional behavior .	牆壁和索利亞的例子顯示 , 即使在獨立電影中 , 甚至一個小預算電影可以扮演一個角色 , 改變非暴力行為的角色 。
now imagine the power that big media players could have if they started covering the weekly nonviolent demonstrations happening in villages like bil'in , ni'lin , wallajeh , in jerusalem neighborhoods like sheikh jarrah and silwan the nonviolent leaders would become more visible , valued and effective in their work .	想像一下 , 巨大媒體玩家 , 如果他們開始在村莊裡 , 像巴林 , 像巴林 , 像巴勒斯一樣 , 珍妮 , 在猶太人 , 在猶太人 , 在猶太人 , 沒有暴力的領導人會變得更有效 。
i believe that the most important thing is to understand that if we don't pay attention to these efforts , they are invisible , and it's as if they never happened .	我相信最重要的事情是要了解 , 如果我們不關心這些努力 , 它們是不可能的 , 它們是不可能發生的 , 而如果他們從未發生過 。
but i have seen first hand that if we do , they will multiply .	但我看到第一張手 , 如果我們做的話 , 他們會多重 。
if they multiply , their influence will grow in the overall israelipalestinian conflict .	如果他們多久 , 他們的影響會影響超過超過亞洲衝突的衝突 。
and theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation .	他們的影響是 , 能夠終於無法阻擋情況下 。
these leaders have proven that nonviolence works in places like budrus .	這些領導者已經證明了非暴力工作 , 像是布魯德的作品 。
let's give them attention so they can prove it works everywhere .	咱們來給他們注意力 , 可以證明它在任何地方 。
simon sinek has a simple but powerful model for inspirational leadership all starting with a golden circle and the question " why ? " his examples include apple , martin luther king , and the wright brothers . . .	西蒙汀有一個簡單的但有強大的模式 , 由一個黃金圈和問題: 「 為什麼 ? 」 他的例子包括蘋果蘋果、馬丁•金斯王王王國 。
bullseye , business , entrepreneur , leadership , sales , selling , success	bully、企業、企業家、企業、企業、企業、銷售、銷售、成功、成功、成功、成功、成功、成功、成功、成功 。
simon sinek: how great leaders inspire action	西蒙汀:多麼偉大的領導人鼓舞者鼓舞 。
how do you explain when things don't go as we assume ?	你怎麼解釋當事情不像我們假設假設什麼 ?
or better , how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions ?	或者更好 , 你要如何解釋其他假設 , 當其他假設時 , 似乎對所有假設的假設呢 ?
for example: why is apple so innovative ?	例如:為什麼蘋果兒子的蘋果 ?
year after year , after year , after year , they're more innovative than all their competition .	一年後 , 一年後 , 他們比所有的競爭都更創新 。
and yet , they're just a computer company .	然而 , 他們只是一個電腦公司公司 。
they're just like everyone else .	他們就像其他人一樣 。
they have the same access to the same talent , the same agencies , the same consultants , the same media .	他們擁有同樣的能力 , 同樣的基因組 , 同樣的基因組 , 同樣的常見 , 相同的媒體 。
then why is it that they seem to have something different ?	為什麼他們似乎有不同 ?
why is it that martin luther king led the civil rights movement ?	為什麼 , 馬丁王國權運動的領導權運動 ?
he wasn't the only man who suffered in a precivil rights america , and he certainly wasn't the only great orator of the day .	他不是唯一受苦的人 , 他肯定不是唯一偉大的美國 , 他肯定不是唯一偉大的或一天 。
and why is it that the wright brothers were able to figure out controlled , powered man flight when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified , better funded . . .	為什麼這是最糟糕的兄弟能夠找出控制控制 , 強迫飛行時 , 強迫飛行的隊伍 , 更好的資金 。
and they didn't achieve powered man flight , and the wright brothers beat them to it .	他們沒有成就權力了飛行的飛行 , 兄弟們被打敗了 。
there's something else at play here .	這裡還有其他東西 。
about three and a half years ago i made a discovery .	大約三到五年前 , 我做了一個發現 。
and this discovery profoundly changed my view on how i thought the world worked , and it even profoundly changed the way in which i operate in it .	這發現了我對世界運作的方式改變了我的觀點 , 甚至很深刻改變了我如何在它身上 。
as it turns out , there's a pattern .	結果發現 , 有一個模式 。
as it turns out , all the great and inspiring leaders and organizations in the world whether it's apple or martin luther king or the wright brothers they all think , act and communicate the exact same way .	結果發現 , 所有的偉大、鼓舞領導人和組織 , 不論是蘋果或馬丁•王王王王子 , 他們都認為 , 行為和溝通方式溝通 。
and it's the complete opposite to everyone else .	這是完全相反的完全相反 。
all i did was codify it , and it's probably the world's simplest idea .	我所做的都是編碼 , 可能是世界上最簡單的想法 。
i call it the golden circle .	我稱它為黃金圓圈 。
why ? how ? what ?	為什麼 ? 怎麼樣 ?
this little idea explains why some organizations and some leaders are able to inspire where others aren't .	這個小想法解釋為什麼有些人組織和一些領導人都無法啟發 。
let me define the terms really quickly .	讓我解釋一下詞真的很快 。
every single person , every single organization on the planet knows what they do , 100 percent .	每個人 , 每個組織都知道他們所做的 , 每一位組織都知道他們做什麼 , 有100% 。
some know how they do it , whether you call it your differentiated value proposition or your proprietary process or your usp .	有些人知道他們怎麼做 , 不論你稱它為你的不同的價值觀 , 或是你的美國人 。
but very , very few people or organizations know why they do what they do .	但非常非常少的人或組織知道他們怎麼做 。
and by " why " i don't mean " to make a profit . "	順便說: 「 我為何 」 。
that's a result . it's always a result .	這是結果 。 這是結果 。
by " why , " i mean: what's your purpose ?	順便說: 「 為什麼 , 你的目的 ? 」
what's your cause ? what's your belief ?	你的原因是什麼 ? 你的信念 ?
why does your organization exist ?	為什麼你的組織存在 ?
why do you get out of bed in the morning ?	你為什麼要從早上拿出來 ?
and why should anyone care ?	為什麼有人在乎意料 ?
well , as a result , the way we think , the way we act , the way we communicate is from the outside in .	結果 , 結果 , 我們所想的方式是從外面溝通的方式溝通是來自外面的 。
it's obvious . we go from the clearest thing to the fuzziest thing .	很顯然 , 我們從最明顯的事情開始 。
but the inspired leaders and the inspired organizations regardless of their size , regardless of their industry all think , act and communicate from the inside out .	但激勵領導者和鼓勵組織 , 不論他們的尺寸 , 除非他們的工業 , 除非他們認為 , 行動和內部的人溝通 。
let me give you an example .	讓我舉個例子 。
i use apple because they're easy to understand and everybody gets it .	我用蘋果蘋果 , 因為他們很容易了解 , 每個人都得到它 。
if apple were like everyone else , a marketing message from them might sound like this: " we make great computers .	如果蘋果就像其他人一樣 , 一個市場傳遞訊息 , 可能聽起來像這樣: 「 我們製造偉大的電腦 」 。
they're beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	他們很漂亮的設計 , 簡單地使用和使用者友善的方式 。
want to buy one ? " " meh . "	想要買一個嗎 ? 」
and that's how most of us communicate .	這就是我們大多數人溝通 。
that's how most marketing is done , that's how most sales is done and that's how most of us communicate interpersonally .	這就是大部分市場所做的 , 那就是 , 大部分的銷售是做的事 , 那就是我們大部分人溝通 。
we say what we do , we say how we're different or how we're better and we expect some sort of a behavior , a purchase , a vote , something like that .	我們說我們該怎麼做 , 我們是怎麼樣的 , 我們期待一些行為 , 一個投票 , 投票、投票、投票 , 像是這樣 。
here's our new law firm: we have the best lawyers with the biggest clients , we always perform for our clients who do business with us .	這是我們的新法律師:我們有最好的律師 , 我們總是為我們的客戶 , 我們總是為我們的客戶 。
here's our new car: it gets great gas mileage , it has leather seats , buy our car .	這是我們的新車輛:它很棒的銀河 , 它有leather的海域 , 買我們的車 。
here's how apple actually communicates .	這就是蘋果實際上溝通 。
" everything we do , we believe in challenging the status quo .	「 我們所做的一切 , 我們相信在慈善品質上 。 」
we believe in thinking differently .	我們相信不同的思考方式 。
the way we challenge the status quo is by making our products beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	我們挑戰平方方案的方式挑戰我們的產品 , 簡單使用和使用者友善設計 , 簡單使用和使用者 。
we just happen to make great computers .	我們只會發生很棒的電腦 。
want to buy one ? "	想要買一個嗎 ? 」
totally different right ? you're ready to buy a computer from me .	完全不同的對嗎 ? 你準備好買電腦 。
all i did was reverse the order of the information .	我所做的就是把資訊轉換成資訊的秩序 。
what it proves to us is that people don't buy what you do ; people buy why you do it .	對我們來說 , 人們來說 , 人們不買你做什麼 ; 人們買你為什麼這麼做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做的事 , 他們買了為什麼你這樣做 。
this explains why every single person in this room is perfectly comfortable buying a computer from apple .	這解釋為什麼每個人在這個房間裡都非常舒服的電腦 。
but we're also perfectly comfortable buying an mp3 player from apple , or a phone from apple , or a dvr from apple .	但我們同時也非常舒適的買家 , 或蘋果手機來自蘋果或蘋果的dvr , 或是來自蘋果的dvr 。
but , as i said before , apple's just a computer company .	但 , 當我之前說 , 蘋果只是一台電腦公司公司 。
there's nothing that distinguishes them structurally from any of their competitors .	什麼都沒有意料到他們競爭者的競爭者 。
their competitors are all equally qualified to make all of these products .	他們的競爭者都是平等的 。
in fact , they tried .	事實上 , 他們嘗試了 。
a few years ago , gateway came out with flat screen tvs .	幾年前 , 把電視帶到flat螢幕上 。
they're eminently qualified to make flat screen tvs .	他們很容易被迫切的電視機 。
they've been making flat screen monitors for years .	幾年來 , 他們已經製造了電子螢幕 。
dell came out with mp3 players and pdas , and they make great quality products , and they can make perfectly welldesigned products and nobody bought one .	貝爾從3個玩家和慈善產品 , 他們做出了很棒的品質產品 , 他們可以非常精確的產品 , 沒有人買到 。
in fact , talking about it now , we can't even imagine buying an mp3 player from dell .	事實上 , 談到它現在 , 我們甚至無法想像買一台mp3的玩家 。
why would you buy an mp3 player from a computer company ?	為什麼你會買一台電腦公司買一台電腦嗎 ?
but we do it every day .	但我們每天都做這件事 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做的事 , 他們買了為什麼你這樣做 。
the goal is not to do business with everybody who needs what you have .	目標不是要和你需要做的商業 。
the goal is to do business with people who believe what you believe .	目標是要和那些相信你所相信的 。
here's the best part: none of what i'm telling you is my opinion .	這是最好的部分:沒有我要告訴你們的是我的觀點 。
it's all grounded in the tenets of biology .	它都是生物學的數量 。
not psychology , biology .	不是心理學、生物學 。
if you look at a crosssection of the human brain , looking from the top down , what you see is the human brain is actually broken into three major components that correlate perfectly with the golden circle .	如果你仔細觀察人類大腦的雲朵 , 從頂端來看 , 你看到的是人類大腦的大腦實際上被破壞了三種主要的元件 。
our newest brain , our homo sapien brain , our neocortex , corresponds with the " what " level .	我們的新腦袋 , 我們的鄰居大腦、皮質、皮質、反應反應反應反應 。
the neocortex is responsible for all of our rational and analytical thought and language .	新皮質是對我們所有理性和分析的思想和語言 。
the middle two sections make up our limbic brains , and our limbic brains are responsible for all of our feelings , like trust and loyalty .	中間兩個選擇讓我們的肢體 , 我們的肢體是負責責責任 , 比如信任和孤獨 。
it's also responsible for all human behavior , all decisionmaking , and it has no capacity for language .	它也對所有人類行為都有責任 , 所有決策、所有決策 , 都沒有能力為語言 。
in other words , when we communicate from the outside in , yes , people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features and benefits and facts and figures .	換句話說 , 當我們從外面溝通 , 是的 , 人們可以了解大量複雜的資訊 , 比如特徵和利潤和數字 。
it just doesn't drive behavior .	它不僅僅是駕駛行為 。
when we can communicate from the inside out , we're talking directly to the part of the brain that controls behavior , and then we allow people to rationalize it with the tangible things we say and do .	當我們從內部溝通時 , 我們會直接和控制行為的一部分 , 我們讓人們與控制行為的一部分 , 然後我們允許人們和做關係 。
this is where gut decisions come from .	這是猜測的決定來自哪裡 。
you know , sometimes you can give somebody all the facts and figures , and they say , " i know what all the facts and details say , but it just doesn't feel right . "	你知道嗎 , 有時候你可以給某人所有事實和數字 , 他們說: 「 我知道所有事實和細節說 」
why would we use that verb , it doesn't " feel " right ?	為什麼我們會這樣使用這個詞 , 不覺得 「 感覺 」 對吧 ?
because the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking doesn't control language .	因為大腦控制決策並不是控制語言的一部分 。
and the best we can muster up is , " i don't know . it just doesn't feel right . "	最好的 , 我們必須做的就是: 「 我不知道 。 」
or sometimes you say you're leading with your heart , or you're leading with your soul .	或者 , 有時候你跟你的心臟 , 或是你跟你的靈魂 。
well , i hate to break it to you , those aren't other body parts controlling your behavior .	嗯 , 我討厭它 , 這些不是其他身體部部部位控制你的行為 。
it's all happening here in your limbic brain , the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking and not language .	這一切都在你的肢體中 , 控制決策的大腦 , 控制決策 , 而不是語言 。
but if you don't know why you do what you do , and people respond to why you do what you do , then how will you ever get people to vote for you , or buy something from you , or , more importantly , be loyal and want to be a part of what it is that you do .	但如果你不知道你為什麼做的事 , 人們對你做的事 , 人們對你做的事 , 那麼你要如何讓人們投票給你投票 , 或者更重要的是 , 孤獨 , 或更重要的是 , 你所做的 。
again , the goal is not just to sell to people who need what you have ; the goal is to sell to people who believe what you believe .	再一次 , 目標不僅要賣你誰需要什麼 ; 目標是要賣你相信你相信你所相信的 。
the goal is not just to hire people who need a job ; it's to hire people who believe what you believe .	目標不只是為了僱用的人 , 而是要僱用工作的人 , 而是要僱用你相信你所相信的 。
i always say that , you know , if you hire people just because they can do a job , they'll work for your money , but if you hire people who believe what you believe , they'll work for you with blood and sweat and tears .	我總是說 , 如果你僱用人們只是因為他們可以做工作 , 他們會為你付錢 , 但如果你僱用血和汗水 。
and nowhere else is there a better example of this than with the wright brothers .	此外 , 另外還有一個更好的例子 。
most people don't know about samuel pierpont langley .	大部分人不知道samuelpsontlangley 。
and back in the early 20th century , the pursuit of powered man flight was like the dot com of the day .	回到20世紀初 , 追求人飛行的旅程 , 如今 , 如今我們所做的最佳收入 。
everybody was trying it .	每個人都在嘗試它 。
and samuel pierpont langley had , what we assume , to be the recipe for success .	samuelpsontlangngley的確確是為了成功的成功
i mean , even now , you ask people , " why did your product or why did your company fail ? "	甚至現在 , 你問人們: 「 為什麼你的產品或為什麼你的產品失敗 ? 」
and people always give you the same permutation of the same three things: undercapitalized , the wrong people , bad market conditions .	人們總是給你同樣的感受 , 同樣的三件事:在意外化、壞市場條件、壞市場條件、壞市場條件 。
it's always the same three things , so let's explore that .	它總是相同三件事 , 讓我們來探討這一點 。
samuel pierpont langley was given 50 , 000 dollars by the war department to figure out this flying machine .	amuelpelpsontlangley已經給了50000美元 , 來找出這個飛行機器 。
money was no problem .	金錢不是問題 。
he held a seat at harvard and worked at the smithsonian and was extremely wellconnected ; he knew all the big minds of the day .	他告訴了一座哈佛和工作工作在miththonian , 他知道每天都很重要 ; 他知道所有的大心思 。
he hired the best minds money could find and the market conditions were fantastic .	他僱用最好的思想 , 市場條件是很棒的 。
the new york times followed him around everywhere , and everyone was rooting for langley .	紐約時報的紐約時報 , 每個人都在路邊 , 每個人都在為奴隸制度 。
then how come we've never heard of samuel pierpont langley ?	那麼 , 我們從來沒有聽過amuelpleyontlangley ?
a few hundred miles away in dayton ohio , orville and wilbur wright , they had none of what we consider to be the recipe for success .	幾百英里遠遠遠遠遠遠超過幾百英哩之外 , 他們沒有我們所認為的成功 。
they had no money ; they paid for their dream with the proceeds from their bicycle shop ; not a single person on the wright brothers' team had a college education , not even orville or wilbur ; and the new york times followed them around nowhere .	他們沒有錢錢 ; 他們為他們的夢想 , 和他們的夢想 , 不是單單一人 , 而是一個大學的大學教育 , 而不是單一人 , 甚至是一名大學畢業 , 甚至紐約時 , 紐約時報的新聞報導 。
the difference was , orville and wilbur were driven by a cause , by a purpose , by a belief .	差別是 , 橘子和木偶被驅動 , 由一個信念 , 由一個信念 。
they believed that if they could figure out this flying machine , it'll change the course of the world .	他們相信 , 如果他們能找出這個飛行機器 , 它會改變世界的過程 。
samuel pierpont langley was different .	amuelpley是不同的 。
he wanted to be rich , and he wanted to be famous .	他想要富有 , 他想要有名的 。
he was in pursuit of the result .	結果他在追求結果 。
he was in pursuit of the riches .	他在富裕的追求 。
and lo and behold , look what happened .	洛杉磯 , 看看發生了什麼事 。
the people who believed in the wright brothers' dream worked with them with blood and sweat and tears .	那些相信在哥倫斯的夢想和汗水合作夥伴合作 。
the others just worked for the paycheck .	其他人只是為了付錢付錢 。
and they tell stories of how every time the wright brothers went out , they would have to take five sets of parts , because that's how many times they would crash before they came in for supper .	他們告訴大家 , 每次最糟糕的兄弟們 , 他們得要花五個部分 , 因為那是他們在供應器上 , 因為這是他們在供應商之前 。
and , eventually , on december 17th , 1903 , the wright brothers took flight , and no one was there to even experience it .	最後 , 在1903年11月17日 , 1903年 , 最棒的兄弟 , 沒有人會經歷它 。
we found out about it a few days later .	幾天後 , 我們發現了它 。
and further proof that langley was motivated by the wrong thing: the day the wright brothers took flight , he quit .	更進一步的教授 , 是錯誤的:那天最高的兄弟 , 他辭掉了飛機 , 他安靜 。
he could have said , " that's an amazing discovery , guys , and i will improve upon your technology , " but he didn't .	他可以說: 「 這是個很棒的發現 , 傢伙 , 我會改善你的科技 , 」 但他沒有 。
he wasn't first , he didn't get rich , he didn't get famous so he quit .	他不是首先 , 他沒有錢錢 , 他還沒得到錢 , 他就不太太好了 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做的事 , 他們買了為什麼你這樣做 。
and if you talk about what you believe , you will attract those who believe what you believe .	如果你談到你所相信的 , 你會吸引那些相信你所相信的 。
but why is it important to attract those who believe what you believe ?	但為什麼要吸引那些相信你相信你相信什麼 ?
something called the law of diffusion of innovation , and if you don't know the law , you definitely know the terminology .	一種叫做 「 創新 」 的法則 , 如果你不知道法律 , 你絕對不知道法律 , 你絕對知道微生物學 。
the first two and a half percent of our population are our innovators .	首先 , 我們的人口是我們的創新者 。
the next 13 and a half percent of our population are our early adopters .	下一個13% , 我們的人口是早期的 。
the next 34 percent are your early majority , your late majority and your laggards .	下一個34%是你的早期 , 你的遲早 , 你的女士 。
the only reason these people buy touch tone phones is because you can't buy rotary phones anymore .	這些人買到手機的唯一原因是因為你不能買浪費手機 。
we all sit at various places at various times on this scale , but what the law of diffusion of innovation tells us is that if you want massmarket success or massmarket acceptance of an idea , you cannot have it until you achieve this tipping point between 15 and 18 percent market penetration , and then the system tips .	我們都坐在這個規模的各種地方 , 但在創新中 , 卻告訴我們 , 如果你想大麻的法則告訴我們 , 假如你想要大屠殺或大屠殺的概念 , 直到15%到18%和市場之間 , 直到15%到18%之間 。
and i love asking businesses , " what's your conversion on new business ? "	我喜歡問企業: 「 你的內容是什麼 ? 」
and they love to tell you , " oh , it's about 10 percent , " proudly .	他們很喜歡告訴你們: 「 喔 , 這是大約10% 」 「 很驕傲 。
well , you can trip over 10 percent of the customers .	嗯 , 你可以試過超過10%的客戶 。
we all have about 10 percent who just " get it . "	我們都擁有百分之十的 「 得到 」 。
that's how we describe them , right ?	這就是我們如何描述它們 , 對吧 ?
that's like that gut feeling , " oh , they just get it . "	這就像那種猜測感覺: 「 喔 , 他們只是得到它 。 」
the problem is: how do you find the ones that get it before you're doing business with them versus the ones who don't get it ?	問題是:你要如何找到它 , 你要如何找到它 ?
so it's this here , this little gap that you have to close , as jeffrey moore calls it , " crossing the chasm " because , you see , the early majority will not try something until someone else has tried it first .	所以 , 這是這個小小的差距 , 你必須靠近 , 就像jfrey摩爾稱它為 「 雲朵 」 因為你知道 , 早期 , 最早就不會嘗試任何人試驗 。
and these guys , the innovators and the early adopters , they're comfortable making those gut decisions .	這些傢伙 , 創新者和早期選項 , 他們很舒服的決定 。
they're more comfortable making those intuitive decisions that are driven by what they believe about the world and not just what product is available .	他們更加舒適的決策決定 , 是因為他們所相信的世界 , 不僅是生產力的 。
these are the people who stood in line for six hours to buy an iphone when they first came out , when you could have just walked into the store the next week and bought one off the shelf .	這些是那些站在六小時內買一台iphone時 , 買了一台iphone時 , 當你走進鋼琴時 , 買下一個禮物 。
these are the people who spent 40 , 000 dollars on flat screen tvs when they first came out , even though the technology was substandard .	這些是花了4000美元的電視機 , 當他們第一次出去時 , 雖然科技被主宰了 , 雖然科技被主宰了 。
and , by the way , they didn't do it because the technology was so great ; they did it for themselves .	順便一提 , 他們不這麼做是因為科技很棒 , 他們為自己做自己做 。
it's because they wanted to be first .	因為他們想要成為首先 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it and what you do simply proves what you believe .	人們不買你做的事 , 他們買了為什麼你做這件事 , 你只能證明你所相信的 。
in fact , people will do the things that prove what they believe .	事實上 , 人們會做他們所相信的事物 。
the reason that person bought the iphone in the first six hours , stood in line for six hours , was because of what they believed about the world , and how they wanted everybody to see them: they were first .	第一個六小時的iphone , 那個人在線上 , 站在六小時內 , 是因為他們相信世界 , 他們是如何看待他們:他們是第一 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做的事 , 他們買了為什麼你這樣做 。
so let me give you a famous example , a famous failure and a famous success of the law of diffusion of innovation .	所以 , 讓我舉個很有名的失敗和一位有名的失敗和一位有名的成功 。
first , the famous failure .	首先 , 很有名的失敗 。
it's a commercial example .	這是一個商業例子 。
as we said before , a second ago , the recipe for success is money and the right people and the right market conditions , right ? you should have success then .	如我們之前所說的成功是金錢和正確的市場條件 , 對吧 ? 你應該成功 , 對吧 ? 你應該成功 。
from the time tivo came out about eight or nine years ago to this current day , they are the single highestquality product on the market , hands down , there is no dispute .	從198年開始 , 大約有8或九年前 , 他們是市場上最高的產品 , 他們是唯一的 。
they were extremely wellfunded .	他們很受傷 。
market conditions were fantastic .	市場條件很棒 。
i mean , we use tivo as verb .	我的意思是 , 我們用抗拒 。
i tivo stuff on my piece of junk time warner dvr all the time .	我每次在叢林上抗議時 , 我把dvdvdvr 。
but tivo's a commercial failure .	但tivovo是商業失敗 。
they've never made money .	他們從來沒有賺錢 。
and when they went ipo , their stock was at about 30 or 40 dollars and then plummeted , and it's never traded above 10 .	當他們去到ipo時 , 他們的股票是大約30到40美元 , 然後它從來沒有吸引10歲 。
in fact , i don't think it's even traded above six , except for a couple of little spikes .	事實上 , 我不認為它甚至被吸引了六 , 除了幾隻小的猴子 。
because you see , when tivo launched their product they told us all what they had .	因為你看到 , 當抗拒他們產品時 , 他們告訴我們他們他們所擁有的一切 。
they said , " we have a product that pauses live tv , skips commercials , rewinds live tv and memorizes your viewing habits without you even asking . "	他們說: 「 我們有一份廢棄物 , 技巧、技巧、香菸、恢復和記憶力 , 不管你甚至會問你 。 」
and the cynical majority said , " we don't believe you .	而循環的主要說: 「 我們不相信你 。 」
we don't need it . we don't like it .	我們不需要它 。 我們不喜歡它 。
you're scaring us . "	你害怕我們 。 」
what if they had said , " if you're the kind of person who likes to have total control over every aspect of your life , boy , do we have a product for you .	如果他們說: 「 如果你是對你的生活的人來說 , 你就有一個產品控制你的生活 , 男孩 , 我們有一份產品 。
it pauses live tv , skips commercials , memorizes your viewing habits , etc . , etc . "	它保羅居住在電視、技巧、技巧、記憶、記憶、記憶、等等 。 」
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it , and what you do simply serves as the proof of what you believe .	人們不買你做的事 , 他們買了為什麼你這樣做 , 你只會做你所相信的 。
now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation .	現在讓我給各位一個成功的例子 。
in the summer of 1963 , 250 , 000 people showed up on the mall in washington to hear dr . king speak .	1963年夏天夏天夏天的夏天 , 在華盛頓大廳上 , 聽說話 。
they sent out no invitations , and there was no website to check the date .	他們從來沒有邀請 , 沒有網站去檢查這個日子 。
how do you do that ?	你怎麼做 ?
well , dr . king wasn't the only man in america who was a great orator .	嗯 , 金恩不是美國唯一一個偉大的人 。
he wasn't the only man in america who suffered in a precivil rights america .	他不是美國唯一在預防權利權利的男人 。
in fact , some of his ideas were bad .	事實上 , 他的想法很糟糕 。
but he had a gift .	但他有一個禮物 。
he didn't go around telling people what needed to change in america .	他不去告訴大家 , 要改變美國的需求 。
he went around and told people what he believed .	他走過 , 告訴大家他他相信的 。
" i believe , i believe , i believe , " he told people .	「 我相信 , 我相信 , 我告訴大家: 「 嘿 ! 」
and people who believed what he believed took his cause , and they made it their own , and they told people .	而那些相信他所相信的原因 , 讓他們自己的原因 , 他們告訴別人他自己 , 他們告訴別人 。
and some of those people created structures to get the word out to even more people .	有些人創造了結構 , 讓更多人變得更加的人 。
and lo and behold , 250 , 000 people showed up on the right day at the right time to hear him speak .	洛杉磯 , 兩萬五萬人在右邊聽到他說話 。
how many of them showed up for him ?	他們有多少人向他展現了 ?
they showed up for themselves .	他們向自己展示自己 。
it's what they believed about america that got them to travel in a bus for eight hours to stand in the sun in washington in the middle of august .	這是他們所相信的美國 , 讓他們在華盛頓區旅行的八小時 , 站在華盛頓的中間 。
it's what they believed , and it wasn't about black versus white: 25 percent of the audience was white .	這是他們所相信的 , 而不是黑人版本白人:25%的觀眾是白人 。
dr . king believed that there are two types of laws in this world: those that are made by a higher authority and those that are made by man .	博士相信 , 世界上有兩種法則:那些由一個更高的權利和那些是由男人製造出來的 。
and not until all the laws that are made by man are consistent with the laws that are made by the higher authority will we live in a just world .	直到所有法律的法律 , 直到所有法律的法律 , 將我們生活在一個世界中 。
it just so happened that the civil rights movement was the perfect thing to help him bring his cause to life .	剛剛剛剛剛剛剛剛剛剛剛好的事 , 幫助他帶領他的原因 。
we followed , not for him , but for ourselves .	我們追蹤了 , 不是為了自己 , 而是為了自己 。
and , by the way , he gave the " i have a dream " speech , not the " i have a plan " speech .	順便一提 , 他給了 「 我有一個夢想 」 , 不是 「 我有計劃 」 的速度 。
listen to politicians now , with their comprehensive 12point plans .	現在傾聽政治家人現在 , 他們的競爭計畫 。
they're not inspiring anybody .	他們不是鼓勵任何人 。
because there are leaders and there are those who lead .	因為有領導人和領導人 。
leaders hold a position of power or authority , but those who lead inspire us .	領導者握著一個權力或權力 , 但那些領導著鼓舞我們 。
whether they're individuals or organizations , we follow those who lead , not because we have to , but because we want to .	無論他們是個人或組織 , 我們遵循那些領導的人 , 而是因為我們想要 。
we follow those who lead , not for them , but for ourselves .	我們遵循那些領導的人 , 不是為了自己 , 而是為了自己 。
and it's those who start with " why " that have the ability to inspire those around them or find others who inspire them .	這是那些從 「 為何 」 的能力來啟發這些人的能力 , 或找到其他靈感的人 。
how do you remember where you parked your car ? how do you know if you're moving in the right direction ? neuroscientist neil burgess studies the neural mechanisms that map the space around us , and how they link to memory and imagination .	你該怎麼記得你在哪裡 ? 你要怎麼知道你在右邊移動 ? 神經科學學家尼爾•尼爾•尼爾•尼爾斯•尼爾•尼爾大學 , 他們如何連結我們周圍的空間 , 以及想像力 。
brain , cognitive science , exploration , neuroscience , science	大腦、認知科學、探索、探索、神經科學、神經科學、科學、科學、
neil burgess: how your brain tells you where you are	neil官員:你的大腦告訴你你在哪裡 ?
when we park in a big parking lot , how do we remember where we parked our car ?	當我們在一個大停車時 , 我們要如何記得我們車子 ?
here's the problem facing homer .	這是問題的回家 。
and we're going to try to understand what's happening in his brain .	我們要試著了解他的大腦發生了什麼事 。
so we'll start with the hippocampus , shown in yellow , which is the organ of memory .	所以 , 我們從山丘開始 , 展示在黃色上展示 , 這是記憶體的器官 。
if you have damage there , like in alzheimer's , you can't remember things including where you parked your car .	如果你有損害 , 就像阿茲海默症一樣 , 你無法記住你的車子 。
it's named after latin for " seahorse , " which it resembles .	它被稱為 「 海水後 」 的名字 「 海水 」 的意思是 「 海水 」 的名字 。
and like the rest of the brain , it's made of neurons .	就像大腦其他的其他部分 , 它是由神經元組成的 。
so the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it .	所以人類大腦的大腦有大約一百億個神經元 。
and the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other .	而神經元溝通彼此溝通 , 透過電力來傳送小型脈絡 , 來彼此互相連結 。
the hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells , which are very densely interconnected .	山丘形成了兩塊細胞 , 非常密切的細胞 , 非常密切地連結起來 。
and scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food .	科學家們必須了解脊椎記憶如何運作 , 透過個人神經元或micececeo或micececececeo或micecececeo , 尋找食物 。
so we're going to imagine we're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here .	所以 , 我們要想像我們從一個單一神經元的記錄 。
and when it fires a little spike of electricity , there's going to be a red dot and a click .	當它消防了電力時 , 就會變成紅點的紅點 , 就會變成紅點 。
so what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment .	所以 , 我們所看到的是 , 當種族歧視的神經元已經進入一個特定的地方 。
and it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike .	它的訊號 , 訊號傳送一個小電晶片 。
so we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal's location .	所以我們可以展示這些神經元作為一個動物的功能 。
and if we record from lots of different neurons , we'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment , like in this square box shown here .	如果我們從許多不同的神經元 , 我們會看到不同神經元時 , 我們就會看到這些不同的神經元 , 就像這平方方盒子一樣 。
so together they form a map for the rest of the brain , telling the brain continually , " where am i now within my environment ? "	所以 , 他們一起形成了一個大腦地圖 , 告訴大腦持續地的地圖 , 「 我現在在我的環境中 ? 」
place cells are also being recorded in humans .	細胞也被記錄在人類身上 。
so epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring .	所以 , 癲癇患者有時需要電動活動 , 在他們的大腦動作 。
and some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town .	這些病人在玩耍遊戲中扮演一個小鎮的遊戲 , 他們在一個小鎮上 。
and place cells in their hippocampi would fire , become active , start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town .	細胞內部的細胞會消防 , 變成活躍 , 開始傳送電池時 , 開始傳送電池 。
so how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment ?	所以 , 一個細胞知道哪個地方是哪個地方 ?
well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important .	這裡有兩個細胞告訴我們 , 環境非常重要 。
so the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat's in .	所以 , 最頂端的盒子 , 把他們的種族隔離 。
and when you expand the box , the firing location expands .	當你擴張盒子時 , 飛行器會擴展擴展擴展 。
the one below likes to fire whenever there's a wall close by to the south .	其中一個樹木時 , 一個是南方的牆壁接近 。
and if you put another wall inside the box , then the cell fires in both place wherever there's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box .	如果你把另一座牆放在盒子裡 , 然後細胞在兩個地方 , 裡面有一牆壁 , 裡面有一座牆 。
so this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you extended buildings and so on is particularly important for the hippocampus .	所以這個預測顯示 , 周圍的距離和方向的距離 , 尤其是在你周圍的建築物 , 尤其重要重要 。
and indeed , on the inputs to the hippocampus , cells are found which project into the hippocampus , which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it's exploring around .	事實上 , 在山丘上 , 輸入到山丘上 , 細胞被發現到隱藏的隱藏 , 並且在特殊的距離 , 或是在特定的距離 , 或是在特定的距離 。
so the cell on the left , you can see , it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east , whether it's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table , which the animals are running around .	所以左邊的細胞 , 你可以看到 , 螢火蟲接近一個牆壁或圓圈 , 不管是邊緣或圓形的牆壁或牆壁牆壁的牆壁 , 甚至在桌子上 。
and the cell on the right there fires whenever there's a boundary to the south , whether it's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart .	在右邊的細胞上 , 每當有一磅的細胞 , 無論是桌子或牆壁 , 或牆壁或牆壁之間的差距 。
so that's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it's exploring around .	這就是我們所認為的細胞決定 , 動物在探索周圍的哪裡 。
we can also test where we think objects are , like this goal flag , in simple environments or indeed , where your car would be .	我們也能測試我們認為物體就像這個目標一樣 , 在簡單的環境中 , 你的車子會是這樣 。
so we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember .	我們可以讓人們探索一個環境 , 看到他們必須記得 。
and then , if we put them back in the environment , generally they're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was .	然後 , 如果我們把它們放在環境中 , 通常他們認為旗幟或車子 , 他們認為旗幟或車子 。
but on some trials , we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell .	但在某些試驗中 , 我們可以改變和細胞的形狀和大小的環境 。
in that case , we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment .	在那個例子中 , 我們可以看到旗幟如何把旗幟當作改變 , 大小改變環境和環境的大小 。
and what you see , for example , if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment , and then if you ask people where it was , but you've made the environment bigger , where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out .	舉例來說 , 如果你問旗幟在一個小平方環境中 , 就在一個小平方環境中 , 但如果你問人們 , 你就想問人們 , 旗幟已經被偷偷偷偷出來 。
it's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location , and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern .	如你記得在哪裡的旗幟被儲存的圖案 , 然後你可以回到那個地方的細胞 , 然後你可以回到那邊移動 , 然後你就可以回到那個地方 , 最好的矩陣模式 。
that guides you back to the location that you want to remember .	那猜你要記得你想記得 。
but we also know where we are through movement .	但我們也知道我們在哪裡 。
so if we take some outbound path perhaps we park and we wander off we know because our own movements , which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back .	所以如果我們拿一些外面的路徑 , 我們就會知道 , 因為我們自己的運動 , 我們可以把這條路延伸到這個路徑 。
and place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell .	細胞也能從某種細胞中產生這種病例 , 叫做 「 灰細胞 」 的細胞 」 的細胞 。
now grid cells are found , again , on the inputs to the hippocampus , and they're a bit like place cells .	圖細胞發現 , 再一次 , 輸入到山丘上 , 他們有點像細胞 。
but now as the rat explores around , each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid .	但現在當種族探索周圍 , 每一個細胞都會消滅 , 每一個細胞都會消失在環境中釋放出來 , 很棒的規則 。
and if you record from several grid cells shown here in different colors each one has a gridlike firing pattern across the environment , and each cell's gridlike firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells .	如果你從數個圖片中記錄下來 , 每個細胞都有一塊圖案 , 每個細胞都有一塊灰色的模式 , 每個細胞都稍微轉換到其他細胞 。
so the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one .	所以這張圖上紅色的紅色之一 , 在這張圖上 。
so together , it's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you'd find on a map , but using triangles .	所以 , 一起 , 如果種族不能把視覺放到它的環境中 , 像是拉丁丁丁丁裔和長期的線索 , 但使用三角形 , 用三角形來看 。
and as it moves around , the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is , so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment .	隨著它移動 , 電力活動活動可以從下一個細胞到下一個細胞 , 讓它可以使用它自己的運動 , 所以它可以用它自己的運動來知道它在環境中 。
do people have grid cells ?	人們有灰質細胞嗎 ?
well because all of the gridlike firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry , the same orientations of grid , shown in orange here , it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between .	嗯 , 因為所有的圖案都有同樣的對稱模式有相同的對稱 , 相同的軌跡 , 它意味著 , 在橘色或橘色 , 它意味著大腦的神經活動 , 它意味著 , 大腦應該改變這些六個方向 。
so we can put people in an mri scanner and have them do a little video game like the one i showed you and look for this signal .	我們可以把人們放在一個mri掃描儀器裡 , 像我展示給你們看這個訊號 。
and indeed , you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex , which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats .	的確 , 你在人類企業皮質上看到它的大腦 , 也是你所看到的細胞 , 在雨林中看到的細胞 。
so back to homer .	所以回到家裡 。
he's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked .	他可能記得他車子的距離和方向的距離 , 要延伸建築物的距離 , 在那裡他公園的距離 。
and that would be represented by the firing of boundarydetecting cells .	那會被限制的細胞呈現出來 。
he's also remembering the path he took out of the car park , which would be represented in the firing of grid cells .	他也記得他把車子從車子裡拿出來的路徑 , 這會代表在圖片中呈現出來 。
now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire .	兩種細胞都可以讓細胞消防細胞消防 。
and he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car .	他無法回歸到洛杉磯 , 在那裡 , 他停車走到哪裡 , 找到最好的矩陣模式 , 最好的矩陣模式 , 在他的腦袋中 , 他和他的車輛 。
and that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car's actually there .	這引導他回到那邊的視覺分子 , 比如他的車子是否真的在那裡 。
maybe it's been towed .	也許它已經被嚇壞了 。
but he knows where it was , so he knows to go and get it .	但他知道它在哪裡 , 所以他知道要去哪裡 。
so beyond spatial memory , if we look for this gridlike firing pattern throughout the whole brain , we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks , like remembering the last time you went to a wedding , for example .	所以 , 蜜蜂記憶記憶 , 如果我們尋找這隻蜘蛛的模式 , 我們就在整個大腦中看到它 , 在整個大腦中 , 總是活躍 。 當我們做各種自動化的記憶記憶記憶記憶記憶 , 就像記得最後一次你去上去 , 例如 , 記住 , 例如 , 記住 , 例如 , 最後一次 。
so it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene , at least , of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them .	所以這可能是神經機械機制 , 代表我們周圍的空間 , 同時 , 我們也可以重新設計虛擬影像 , 至少 , 發生在我們想要想像它們的時候 。
so if this was happening , your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint .	所以如果這發生了 , 你的記憶可以從細胞活動中開始 , 讓彼此互聯繫在一起 , 然後反應反應反應反應在你的觀點中 , 創造出脊髓結構的結構結構 。
and grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space .	細胞可以透過這個觀點移動這個觀點 。
another kind of cell , head direction cells , which i didn't mention yet , they fire like a compass according to which way you're facing .	另一種細胞 , 腦部的方向 , 我還沒有提到 , 像同情心一樣 , 就像同情心一樣 。
they could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery , so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding , for example .	他們可以定義出你想要創造出一個圖像的圖像 , 以你的視覺圖像 , 所以你可以想像一下 , 當你在這個網站時 , 例如你所處的狀況 。
so this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains .	這只是在認知神經科學的例子之一 , 我們開始了解心理學過程 , 比如你如何記住心理學過程 , 比如你記得或想像 , 或甚至在思考或甚至想想在我們腦中有幾十億個個人神經元 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝各位 。
imagine a global security driven by collaboration among agencies , government , the private sector and the public . that's not just the distant hope of opensource fans , it's the vision of james stavridis , the supreme commander of nato , who shares vivid moments from recent military history to explain why security of the future should be built with bridges rather than walls .	想像一下全球安全局驅動 , 政府、政府、私人部門、私人部門、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人、和公共共的願景 , 它是來自詹姆斯•史蒂夫 , 他是如何和國際安全的歷史 。
collaboration , global issues , opensource , peace , politics , social media , violence , war	合作 , 全球議題、開放、公開、政治、政治、政治、暴力、暴力、暴力、暴力、暴力、暴力、暴力、戰爭、暴力、戰爭、暴力、暴力、戰爭、暴力、戰爭、暴力、暴力、戰爭、暴力、戰爭
james stavridis: how nato's supreme commander thinks about global security	詹姆斯史蒂夫•史蒂夫:natotomarttrichman在思考全球安全性安全性 。
i'm gonna talk a little bit about opensource security , because we've got to get better at security in this 21st century .	我現在要談一點關於開放的安全 , 因為我們必須更好安全 , 在21世紀21世紀 。
let me start by saying , let's look back to the 20th century , and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us .	讓我先說 , 咱們回到20世紀的安全 , 有點了解安全 , 對我們來說 , 安全是如何運作的 。
this is verdun , a battlefield in france just north of the nato headquarters in belgium .	這是廣告 , 一個蝙蝠在法國北部的北極北部 。
at verdun , in 1916 , over a 300day period , 700 , 000 people were killed , so about 2 , 000 a day .	1916年 , 在1916年 , 超過30000000人死了 , 所以每天殺死了 , 所以大約有2千人 。
if you roll it forward 20thcentury security into the second world war , you see the battle of stalingrad , 300 days , 2 million people killed .	如果你把它轉化為第二個世界暖化的安全 , 你可以看到壓力的基礎 , 有300天 , 2百萬人殺死了 。
we go into the cold war , and we continue to try and build walls .	我們進入冷戰戰爭 , 我們繼續嘗試建造牆壁 。
we go from the trench warfare of the first world war to the maginot line of the second world war , and then we go into the cold war , the iron curtain , the berlin wall .	我們從第一個世界大戰的戰爭 , 到第二次世界暖化 , 然後我們進入冷戰 , 然後我們進入冷戰時 , 柏林牆壁 。
my thesis for us today is , instead of building walls to create security , we need to build bridges .	我今天對我們來說 , 不是建築牆壁來創造安全 , 我們需要建造橋樑 。
this is a famous bridge in europe .	這是歐洲的橋樑 。
it's the bridge over the drina river , the subject of a novel by ivo andrić , and it talks about how , in that very troubled part of europe and the balkans , over time there's been enormous building of walls .	這是在飲料的橋上 , 由我投票的主題 , 亞里斯•維特 , 談到歐洲和巴爾的主題 , 談到 , 當時有很大的建築物 。
more recently , in the last decade , we begin to see these communities start , hesitatingly , to come together .	最近十年來 , 在過去十年間 , 我們開始看到這些社區開始 , 將它們結合在一起 。
i would argue , again , opensource security is about connecting the international , the interagency , the privatepublic , and lashing it together with strategic communication , largely in social networks .	我再說一次 , 開放的國家安全是關聯國際、私人、私人、私人溝通、私人溝通 , 和策略 , 與策略之間的關係 。
so let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that , because our global commons is under attack in a variety of ways , and none of the sources of threat to the global commons will be solved by building walls .	所以 , 讓我談談一下為什麼我們需要這麼做 , 因為我們的全球共同共同共同點 , 而沒有任何威脅到全球公共攻擊 , 而沒有人需要牆壁來解決全球共通點 。
now , i'm a sailor , obviously .	現在 , 我是個sailor , 很顯然 。
this is a ship , a liner , clipping through the indian ocean .	這是一艘船 , 一艘船穿過印度海洋 。
what's wrong with this picture ?	這張照片是什麼 ?
it's got concertina wire along the sides of it .	它有保險的邊緣 , 和它之間的關聯 。
that's to prevent pirates from attacking it .	要預防精神病患從攻擊攻擊 。
piracy is a very active threat today around the world . this is in the indian ocean .	現今世界各地是一個非常活躍的威脅 , 這是印度海洋中的海洋 。
piracy is also very active in the strait of malacca .	pira也非常活躍於馬拉卡的時代 。
it's active in the gulf of guinea .	它在腸道上活躍 ,
we see it in the caribbean .	我們在柬埔寨看到它 。
it's a $10billionayear discontinuity in the global transport system .	這是全球運輸系統的10元元元 , 在全球運輸系統中 。
last year , at this time , there were 20 vessels , 500 mariners held hostage .	去年 , 在這個時候 , 那裡有20種維爾 , 500位婚姻 。
this is an attack on the global commons .	這是全球常見的攻擊 。
we need to think about how to address it .	我們需要思考如何加上它 。
let's shift to a different kind of sea , the cyber sea .	咱們轉換到不同的海域 , 網路海 。
here are photographs of two young men .	這是兩個年輕男人拍攝兩歲的照片 。
at the moment , they're incarcerated .	在那一刻 , 他們被監禁了 。
they conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars .	他們被設計成cd編輯了 , 超過十億美元 。
this is part of cybercrime which is a $2trillionayear discontinuity in the global economy .	這是網路犯罪的一部分 , 是全球經濟學的一部分 。
two trillion a year .	每年有兩兆兆美元 。
that's just under the gdp of great britain .	這只是在英國的gdp下 。
so this cyber sea , which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness , is very much under threat as well .	所以這個網路海洋 , 我們知道絕對是基本開放的基本元素 , 是非常低威脅 。
another thing i worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking , by the movement of narcotics , opium , here coming out of afghanistan through europe over to the united states .	我擔心全球常見的是另一件事是威脅的威脅 , 由奈米生物、鴉片、鴉片、鴉片、鴉片、鴉片、歐洲到美國 。
we worry about cocaine coming from the andean ridge north .	我們擔心煤炭從東北部到達北部 。
we worry about the movement of illegal weapons and trafficking . above all , perhaps , we worry about human trafficking , and the awful cost of it .	我們擔心非法武器和販賣的運動運動 , 也許 , 我們擔心人類販運 。 也許 , 我們擔心人類販運 , 也許 , 我們擔心人類販運 。
trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons .	販賣移動大海 , 但在其他地區的其他部分 。
this is a photograph , and i wish i could tell you that this is a very hightech piece of us navy gear that we're using to stop the trafficking .	這是一張照片 , 我希望我能告訴各位 , 這是非常高的美國奈米技術 , 我們用奈米技術來阻止交通 。
the bad news is , this is a semisubmersible run by drug cartels .	壞消息是 , 這是個很混亂的 ,
it was built in the jungles of south america .	它在南美洲的叢林裡 。
we caught it with that lowtech raft — — and it was carrying six tons of cocaine .	我們抓住它的低科技率 , 它在乎六噸的煤炭 。
crew of four . sophisticated communications sweep .	四個 , 複雜溝通的溝通 。
this kind of trafficking , in narcotics , in humans , in weapons , god forbid , in weapons of mass destruction , is part of the threat to the global commons .	這種交易 , 在奈米醫學中 , 在人類武器中 , 在武器中 , 神比 , 在武器、武器、武器的一部分之一之一 。
and let's pull it together in afghanistan today .	我們今天要把它放在一起 , 阿富汗 。
this is a field of poppies in afghanistan .	這是阿富汗的地區 。
eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppy , opium and heroin , comes out of afghanistan .	世界上80%到90%的可能性 , 鴉片和英雄 , 來自阿富汗 。
we also see there , of course , terrorism .	當然 , 我們也看到 , 當然恐怖主義 。
this is where al qaeda is staged from .	這是阿富汗的舞台是來自哪裡 。
we also see a very strong insurgency embedded there .	我們也看到一個非常強烈的急診室 。
so this terrorism concern is also part of the global commons , and what we must address .	所以這恐怖主義也也是全球共同的一部分 , 我們必須加入全球共通點 。
so here we are , 21st century .	這裡我們是21世紀 。
we know our 20thcentury tools are not going to work .	我們知道我們的二十世紀工具不會成功 。
what should we do ?	我們該怎麼做 ?
i would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我會說 , 我們不會用槍枝的安全 , 所以從槍枝上拿到槍枝 。
we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我們不會用槍枝安全地從槍枝上拿到槍枝 。
we will need the application of military force .	我們會需要軍隊的應用程式 。
when we do it , we must do it well , and competently .	當我們這麼做時 , 我們必須做得很好 , 而且競爭 。
but my thesis is , opensource security is about international , interagency , privatepublic connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the internet .	但我的意思是 , 開放的安全是關於國際、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人溝通 。
let me give you a couple of examples of how this works in a positive way .	讓我舉幾個例子來說明這個運作的方式 。
this is afghanistan . these are afghan soldiers .	這是阿富汗軍隊 , 這些是阿富汗士兵 。
they are all holding books .	他們都拿著書籍 。
you should say , " that's odd . i thought i read that this demographic , young men and women in their 20s and 30s , is largely illiterate in afghanistan . "	你應該說: 「 這是odd , 我想我讀這位大氣、年輕男女和30歲 , 大部分是阿富汗的女性 , 大部分是阿富汗 。 」
you would be correct .	你可能是正確的 。
eightyfive percent cannot read when they enter the security forces of afghanistan .	當他們進入安全的百分之八十 , 無法讀到阿富汗時 ,
why ? because the taliban withheld education during the period of time in which these men and women would have learned to read .	為什麼呢 ? 因為塔利班在這些男人和婦女教育時期 , 女人會學會閱讀 。
so the question is , so , why are they all standing there holding books ?	所以問題是 , 為什麼他們都站在那裡站在那裡 ?
the answer is , we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by nato in partnership with private sector entities , in partnership with development agencies .	答案是 , 我們正在教導他們閱讀的文章 , 與私人機構合作 , 與發展機構合作合作 。
we've taught well over 200 , 000 afghan security forces to read and write at a basic level .	我們教了超過2000年阿富汗安全力量來閱讀並寫一個基本層級 。
when you can read and write in afghanistan , you will typically put a pen in your pocket .	當你讀和阿富汗時 , 你通常會把筆放在你的口袋裡 。
at the ceremonies , when these young men and women graduate , they take that pen with great pride , and put it in their pocket .	當這些年輕男孩和女性畢業時 , 他們會拿到這筆錢 , 把這筆錢放在他們的口袋裡 。
this is bringing together international — there are 50 nations involved in this mission — interagency — these development agencies — and privatepublic , to take on this kind of security .	這是把國際關係帶在一起 , 在這個任務中 , 有五十個國家參與這個任務 , 這些發展出一個安全性、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人權 。
now , we are also teaching them combat skills , of course , but i would argue , opensource security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect .	當然 , 我們也在教導他們委員會 , 當然 , 但我會爭論 , 開放的安全性意味著連結 , 創造更長的安全性 。
this is a us navy warship .	這是個美國奈米戰爭 。
it's called the comfort .	它叫做舒適 。
there's a sister ship called the mercy .	有一個姐妹叫做 「 商業 」 。
they are hospital ships .	他們是醫院的船隻 。
this one , the comfort , operates throughout the caribbean and the coast of south america conducting patient treatments .	這一 , 舒適、操作和南美洲的海岸 , 以及南美洲的乳房治療病人治療 。
on a typical cruise , they'll do 400 , 000 patient treatments .	在典型危機上 , 他們會做40000個病人 。
it is crewed not strictly by military but by a combination of humanitarian organizations: operation hope , project smile .	它被軍事組織 , 但透過軍事組織的結合 , 但藉由一個結合的希望 , 專案希望、微笑 。
other organizations send volunteers .	其他組織發送志願者 。
interagency physicians come out .	國際物理學家從來 。
they're all part of this .	他們都是這樣做 。
to give you one example of the impact this can have , this little boy , eight years old , walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the comfort .	為了給各位一個例子的影響 , 這個小男孩 , 八歲 , 八歲 , 跟他的母親一起走進診所 。
when he was fitted , over his extremely myopic eyes , he suddenly looked up and said , " mama , veo el mundo . "	當他被送到他的眼睛時 , 他突然看著我說: 「 媽 , 老鼠 , 老鼠 , 老鼠 。 」
" mom , i see the world . "	「 媽 , 我看到世界 。 」
multiply this by 400 , 000 patient treatments , this privatepublic collaboration with security forces , and you begin to see the power of creating security in a very different way .	從4000000個病人的治療 , 這個私人的合作 , 這種私人力量 , 你開始看見創造安全的力量 , 你開始看見創造安全的力量 。
here you see baseball players .	這裡你可以看到球球球玩家 。
can you pick out the two us army soldiers in this photograph ?	你能從這張照片中挑出來的軍隊嗎 ?
they are the two young men on either side of these young boys . this is part of a series of baseball clinics , where we have explored collaboration between major league baseball , the department of state , who sets up the diplomatic piece of this , military baseball players , who are real soldiers with real skills but participate in this mission , and they put on clinics throughout latin america and the caribbean , in honduras , in nicaragua , in all of the central american and caribbean nations where baseball is so popular , and it creates security .	他們是兩個年輕男孩的一部分 , 這是一系列的一系列 , 這是一系列診所的一系列 , 我們已經探索了合作的合作夥伴 , 軍隊和軍隊之間的距離 , 軍隊 , 軍隊和軍隊之間的軍隊 , 他們是真正的軍隊 , 他們是真正的軍隊 。
it shows role models to young men and women about fitness and about life that i would argue help create security for us .	它給年輕男人和女性有關我的生活和女性有關 , 我會爭議協助我們創造安全的安全 。
another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief .	另一方面 , 這個夥伴是災難的 。
this is a us air force helicopter participating after the tsunami in 2004 which killed 250 , 000 people .	這是我們空軍武器參與了2004年 , 2004年殺死了25000人 。
in each of these major disasters — the tsunami in 2004 , 250 , 000 dead , the kashmiri earthquake in pakistan , 2005 , 85 , 000 dead , the haitian earthquake , about 300 , 000 dead , more recently the awful earthquaketsunami combination which struck japan and its nuclear industry — in all of these instances , we see partnerships between international actors , interagency , privatepublic working with security forces to respond to this kind of natural disaster .	在2004年 , 這些大災難中 , 在巴基斯坦 , 250000人死了 , 2005年 , 000名死於巴基斯坦 , 2005年 , 000名死於巴基斯坦的地球震盪 , 最近 , 海地震和日本之間的聯繫 。
so these are examples of this idea of opensource security .	所以這些是開放的安全性 。
we tie it together , increasingly , by doing things like this .	我們一起把它結合在一起 , 根據這樣做 。
now , you're looking at this thinking , " ah , admiral , these must be sea lanes of communication , or these might be fiber optic cables . "	現在 , 你正在看著這個想法: 「 啊 , 這些必要是海層溝通的溝通 , 或者這些可能是纖維的 。 」
no . this is a graphic of the world according to twitter .	不 , 這是世界根據推特的圖片 。
purple are tweets . green are geolocation .	紫外線不是推特 。 綠色是地質的 。
white is the synthesis .	白色是合成的 。
it's a perfect evocation of that great population survey , the six largest nations in the world in descending order: china , india , facebook , the united states , twitter and indonesia .	這是個完美的演算法 , 世界上六個最佳的國家 , 六個最大的國家 , 印度、印度、臉書、臉書、印度、twiter、tter、witter和dna 。
why do we want to get in these nets ?	為什麼我們想要把這些蚊子放進這些蚊子 ?
why do we want to be involved ?	為什麼我們想要參與 ?
we talked earlier about the arab spring , and the power of all this .	我們談到阿拉伯春天 , 所有這一切 。
i'll give you another example , and it's how you move this message .	我要給各位另一個例子 , 這就是你如何移動這個訊息 。
i gave a talk like this in london a while back about this point . i said , as i say to all of you , i'm on facebook . friend me .	我給倫敦一場演講 , 回到倫敦的演講 , 如我所說的 , 我在臉書上說 , 我在臉書上的朋友 。
got a little laugh from the audience .	聽眾聽眾有點笑聲 。
there was an article which was run by ap , on the wire .	有一篇文章 , 線上有一篇文章 。
got picked up in two places in the world: finland and indonesia .	世界各地的兩位地方:金融和加拿大 。
the headline was: nato admiral needs friends .	頭條是:natototoarto的需求 。
and the story was a catalyst , and the next morning i had hundreds of facebook friend requests from indonesians and finns , mostly saying , " admiral , we heard you need a friend , and oh , by the way , what is nato ? "	故事是一場大堆臉書 , 下天早上我有數百個臉書 , 大部分的臉書 , 大部分都說: 「 老鼠 , 我們聽到你需要朋友 , 喔 , 我們需要朋友 , 喔 , 啊 ! 」
yeah , we laugh , but this is how we move the message , and moving that message is how we connect international , interagency , privatepublic , and these social nets to help create security .	是的 , 我們笑 , 但這就是我們如何移動訊息 , 而訊息就是我們如何連結國際、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人、私人資產 。
now , let me hit a somber note .	現在 , 讓我按下一步 ,
this is a photograph of a brave british soldier .	這是一個勇敢的英國士兵拍攝的照片 。
he's in the scots guards .	他在槍枝的槍枝裡 。
he's standing the watch in helmand , in southern afghanistan .	他站在阿富汗的觀點 , 南方的觀點 。
i put him here to remind us , i would not want anyone to leave the room thinking that we do not need capable , competent militaries who can create real military effect .	我把他帶到提醒我們 , 我不希望任何人離開房間裡想我們不需要任何人、競爭的軍事效應 。
that is the core of who we are and what we do , and we do it to protect freedom , freedom of speech , all the things we treasure in our societies .	這就是我們所做的的核心 , 而我們要保護自由、自由、自由、自由、自由、所有事物的自由 。
but , you know , life is not an onandoff switch .	但 , 你知道 , 生命不是在沙丘上 。
you don't have to have a military that is either in hard combat or is in the barracks .	你不需要有軍隊 , 不必要的軍隊或是巴拉克 。
i would argue life is a rheostat .	我會爭論生命是一種理念 。
you have to dial it in , and as i think about how we create security in this 21st century , there will be times when we will apply hard power in true war and crisis , but there will be many instances , as we've talked about today , where our militaries can be part of creating 21stcentury security , international , interagency , privatepublic , connected with competent communication .	你必須把它放在21世紀內創造安全的安全和危機 , 我們會如何在真正戰爭和危機 , 但還有很多時間 , 當我們談到真實戰爭和危機時 , 我們已經談到現今 , 我們的軍事可以成為創造21世紀安全、國際安全、國際安全、國際安全、國際安全、國際關係 。
i would close by saying that we heard earlier today about wikipedia . i use wikipedia all the time to look up facts , and as all of you appreciate , wikipedia is not created by 12 brilliant people locked in a room writing articles .	我今天要說 , 我們聽過維基百科有關維基百科 , 我每天都用維基百科 , 而你們所有人都很欣賞 , 維基百科 , 維基百科人都在寫作文章中 。
wikipedia , every day , is tens of thousands of people inputting information , and every day millions of people withdrawing that information .	維基百科 , 每天都有數千人在推特資訊中 , 每天有數百萬人和draw這些資訊 。
it's a perfect image for the fundamental point that no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	這是一個完美的圖像 , 沒有人人在想一起思考的基本圖像 。
no one person , no one alliance , no one nation , no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	沒有人人 , 沒有人任何人 , 都沒有人 , 我們都在想在一起 。
the vision statement of wikipedia is very simple: a world in which every human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge .	維基百科的觀點非常簡單:一個世界每一個人都可以自由分享在所有知識中分享 。
my thesis for you is that by combining international , interagency , privatepublic , strategic communication , together , in this 21st century , we can create the sum of all security .	我的意思是 , 結合國際、私人、私人、私人、私人溝通、策略、策略、在21世紀中 , 我們可以創造出所有安全 。
thank you very much . thank you . thank you .	非常謝謝你 。 謝謝 。 謝謝 。
