BLEU = 23.50 56.3/31.1/17.8/10.8 (BP = 0.976 ratio = 0.976 hyp_len = 108640 ref_len = 111282)
when you say she's a programmer , she did do some , but the real thing is to have said the future is going to be much , much more than this .	當你說她是程式設計師時 , 她確實做了一些事 , 但真正的目的是要說未來會比這個還多 。
now , a hundred years later , this guy comes along , alan turing , and in 1936 , and invents the computer all over again .	一百年後 , 這個傢伙出現了 , 艾倫•圖靈 , 1936年 , 再次發明電腦 。
now , of course , babbage's machine was entirely mechanical .	當然 , 巴貝奇的機器完全是機械化的 。
turing's machine was entirely theoretical .	turing的機器完全是理論上的 。
both of these guys were coming from a mathematical perspective , but turing told us something very important .	這兩個人都是從數學的角度來的 , 但turing告訴我們一些非常重要的事 。
he laid down the mathematical foundations for computer science , and said , " it doesn't matter how you make a computer . "	他為電腦科學奠定了數學基礎 , 說: 「 不論你如何製造電腦 , 都不重要 。 」
it doesn't matter if your computer's mechanical , like babbage's was , or electronic , like computers are today , or perhaps in the future , cells , or , again , mechanical again , once we get into nanotechnology .	不論是你的電腦的機械裝置 , 像是babbage的裝置 , 或是像現今的電子裝置 , 或是未來的細胞 , 或者 , 細胞 , 或者 , 一旦我們進入奈米科技 。
we could go back to babbage's machine and just make it tiny . all those things are computers .	我們可以回到babbage的機器 , 讓它變小 。 這些東西都是電腦 。
there is in a sense a computing essence .	在某種意義上是計算的本質 。
this is called the church–turing thesis .	這就是所謂的教會論文 。
and so suddenly , you get this link where you say this thing babbage had built really was a computer .	突然間 , 你看到了這個連結 , 你說這個東西babbage其實是一台電腦 。
in fact , it was capable of doing everything we do today with computers , only really slowly .	事實上 , 它能夠做到我們現今用電腦所做的事 , 只有很慢 。
to give you an idea of how slowly , it had about 1k of memory .	為了讓各位了解它有多慢 , 它有大約1k的記憶力 。
it used punch cards , which were being fed in , and it ran about 10 , 000 times slower the first zx81 .	它用的是打孔卡 , 被餵進去 , 跑的速度大約是一萬倍 , 第一個zx81 。
it did have a ram pack .	它的確有一包鐵包 。
you could add on a lot of extra memory if you wanted to .	如果你想的話 , 你可以加上額外的記憶力 。
so , where does that bring us today ?	所以 , 這帶給我們什麼呢 ?
so there are plans .	所以有計畫 。
over in swindon , the science museum archives , there are hundreds of plans and thousands of pages of notes written by charles babbage about this analytical engine .	在瑞典 , 科學博物館的檔案中 , 有數以百計的計劃和數以千計的筆記 , 由查爾斯•巴貝奇所寫的 。
one of those is a set of plans that we call plan 28 , and that is also the name of a charity that i started with doron swade , who was the curator of computing at the science museum , and also the person who drove the project to build a difference engine , and our plan is to build it .	其中一個計畫就是我們稱之為 「 計劃28 」 , 這也是我以doronswaade為起始的一個慈善機構的名字 , 他是科學博物館的運算策展人 , 也是開這個計劃來建造不同引擎的人 , 我們的計劃是要建造它 。
here in south kensington , we will build the analytical engine .	在南肯辛頓這裡 , 我們會建造分析引擎 。
the project has a number of parts to it .	這個專案有很多部件 。
one was the scanning of babbage's archive .	一個是巴貝奇的檔案掃描 。
that's been done . the second is now the study of all of those plans to determine what to build .	這已經完成了 。 第二個是研究所有計畫的研究 , 來決定要建造什麼 。
the third part is a computer simulation of that machine , and the last part is to physically build it at the science museum .	第三部分是計算機模擬這台機器 , 最後一部分是要在科學博物館實體建造它 。
when it's built , you'll finally be able to understand how a computer works , because rather than having a tiny chip in front of you , you've got to look at this humongous thing and say , " ah , i see the memory operating , i see the cpu operating , i hear it operating . i probably smell it operating . "	當它被建造出來時 , 你終於能夠了解電腦是如何運作的 , 因為你面前有一片小晶片 , 你必須看一下這個神奇的東西 , 然後說: 「 啊 , 我看到記憶運作 , 我看到cpu在運作 , 我聽見它運作 。 我可能聞它 。 」
but in between that we're going to do a simulation .	但在這之間 , 我們要做一個模擬 。
babbage himself wrote , he said , as soon as the analytical engine exists , it will surely guide the future course of science .	巴貝奇自己寫信 , 他說 , 一旦分析引擎就存在 , 就一定會引導未來的科學軌跡 。
of course , he never built it , because he was always fiddling with new plans , but when it did get built , of course , in the 1940s , everything changed .	當然 , 他從來沒有打造它 , 因為他總是在想新的計畫 , 但當它真的被建造出來時 , 當然 , 在1940年代 , 一切都改變了 。
now , i'll just give you a little taste of what it looks like in motion with a video which shows just one part of the cpu mechanism working .	現在 , 我給你一點點的味道 , 看看它在動作時的樣子 , 影片中顯示了cpu機制的一部分 。
so this is just three sets of cogs , and it's going to add . this is the adding mechanism in action , so you imagine this gigantic machine .	這只是三組cogs , 它會加上 。 這是加入的機制 , 所以你想像這個巨大的機器 。
so , give me five years .	所以 , 給我五年 。
before the 2030s happen , we'll have it .	在2030年代發生之前 , 我們就有了 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
in this imagefilled talk , yann arthusbertrand displays his three most recent projects on humanity and our habitat stunning aerial photographs in his series " the earth from above , " personal interviews from around the globe featured in his web project " 6 billion others , " and his soontobereleased movie , " home , " which documents human impact on the environment through breathtaking video .	在這個影像填滿的演講中 , 雅恩•亞瑟•亞伯蘭展示了他最近三項關於人性的計畫 , 我們的棲息地拍攝了他的一系列 「 天文照片 」 , 來自世界各地的個人訪談 , 來自他網路上的 「 六十億人 」 , 他很快就放棄了電影 , 「 家 」 , 透過呼吸影片來記錄人類對環境的影響 。
art , climate change , environment , film , future , humanity , media , photography	藝術、氣候變遷、環境、電影、未來、人性、媒體、攝影 。
yann arthusbertrand captures fragile earth in wideangle	雅諾•亞瑟•亞伯特蘭在寬廣的角度捕捉到脆弱的地球 。
i have a big impact on the planet to travel here by plane .	我對地球有很大的影響 , 以飛機來到這裡旅行 。
i emitted , in the atmosphere , nine tons of co2 ; that is the weight of two elephants .	我在大氣中釋放出九噸的二氧化碳 , 那是兩隻大象的重量 。
i came here to speak about ecology , and i emitted as much co2 as a frenchman in one year .	我來這裡談到生態學 , 一年內我把二氧化碳當成法國人 。
so what do i have to do ?	所以 , 我該怎麼做 ?
i have to kill a frenchman when i come back at home ?	當我回家時 , 我得要殺一位法國人 ?
i have to do my carbon offset in another way , like i do every time .	我必須以另一種方式來做我的碳排卵 , 就像我每次都要做一樣 。
in fact my work is to show our impact on our planet .	事實上 , 我的工作就是展現我們對地球的影響 。
i'm going to show you some examples of the last pictures i've done in the last year .	我要給你們看一些我去年拍的最後一張照片 。
alberta sand oil , a lot of pollution .	阿爾伯塔沙油 , 很多污染 。
you know the problem ; we don't want to believe what we know .	你們知道問題 , 我們不想相信我們所知道的事 。
in alberta people work nonstop , 24 hours by seven to extract as much oil as they can .	在阿爾伯達人的工作非op24小時 , 七小時以上 , 盡可能多提取石油 。
we know about the end of oil .	我們知道石油的終點 。
oil sand is not a longterm solution .	石油沙不是長期的解決方案 。
but we use three times more oil than we find every year .	但我們每年使用的石油量比每年多三倍 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
coral reef in new caledonia .	新克萊尼亞的珊瑚礁 。
100 percent of the coral may be wiped out before 2050 because of global warming .	珊瑚的百分之百可能在2050年前就消失了 , 因為全球暖化 。
and you know how coral are very sensitive to temperature , and are very important for the biodiversity of the sea .	你知道珊瑚對溫度非常敏感 , 對海洋生物多樣性的重要 。
north pole . i've done this picture last summer .	北極 。 去年夏天我拍了這張照片 。
it was impossible to do this picture 15 years ago .	15年前 , 這張照片是不可能做到的 。
now there is a new way open between atlantic and pacific .	在大西洋和太平洋之間 , 有一種新的開放方式 。
the thickness of the arctic decreased more than 40 percent since 1960 .	自從1960年起 , 北極的厚度下降了超過40% 。
there is a new face of kilimanjaro without ice .	沒有冰的kilimanjaro有新的面孔 。
it lost 80 percent of its ice .	它失去了百分之八十的冰 。
according to scientists , in 100 years all the mountain glacier will be gone .	根據科學家的說法 , 在一百年內 , 所有的山冰都會消失 。
glaciers are very important for the life on earth .	冰河對地球上的生命很重要 。
like al gore told you , two billion people live on the water from the glacier of himalaya .	就像艾爾•高爾說的 , 二十億人住在喜馬拉雅冰河裡 。
return of fish men .	回到漁人身上 。
one fifth of human kind depend on fish to live .	五分之一的人類依賴魚類生存 。
today now 70 percent of the fish stock are overexploited .	現今 , 70%的魚類過度開發 。
according to fao , if we don't change our system of fishing the main sea resources will be gone in 2050 .	根據fao , 如果我們不改變我們的捕魚系統 , 2050年就會消失 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
the beautiful picture , by [unclear] in africa .	美麗的照片 , 在非洲 。
one human of six have not enough to eat in the world .	六個人中的一個人不夠吃東西 。
one billion people have not enough to eat .	十億人不夠吃東西 。
in africa , corn is one of the main foods in many places .	在非洲 , 玉米是許多地方的主要食物之一 。
here in america , 90 percent of the corn cultivated is used to feed animals or to do oil .	在美國 , 百分之九十的玉米被用來餵養動物或做石油 。
palm tree plantation in borneo .	在婆羅 , 棕櫚樹種植 。
every year we lose 50 thousand square miles in deforestation .	每年我們損失了五萬平方英里的森林砍伐 。
refugee camp in darfur .	達佛難民營 。
today we have 20 million refugees in the world .	現今 , 我們有兩千萬難民 。
according to the u . n . , we speak about 250 million refugees in 2050 .	根據聯合國 , 我們在2050年提到大約2億5千萬難民 。
i always show my pictures in the street .	我總是在街上展示我的照片 。
we have done already 100 exhibitions in the cities .	我們已經在城市做了一百場展覽 。
but how to understand the world without the voice of people ?	但要怎麼去了解這個世界 , 卻沒有人發聲的聲音 ?
landscape was not enough .	地景不夠 。
it was obvious to me to do another work .	對我來說 , 要做另一件作品是很明顯的 。
i launched a project named six billion others .	我發起了六十億人的專案 。
i sent around the world six cameramen asking the same question , the same crucial question , about life .	我發了六個攝影師問了同樣的問題 , 同樣重要的問題 , 關於生命 。
we have done five thousand interviews .	我們做了五千次訪談 。
i'm going to show you this .	我要給你們看這個 。
man: the most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life ?	男子:我人生中最美好的事 ?
it's when my dad told me , " here , i give you this girl as your fiance . "	那時 , 我爸爸告訴我: 「 在這裡 , 我給你這個女孩做你的好處 。 」
woman: love ? love is nice if you can have it .	女子:愛 ? 愛是好事 , 如果你能做到的話 。
second man: romeo and juliet , sassi and panno , dodi and diana , heer and ranjha , this is love ! third man: my greatest fear is . . .	第二個男人:羅密歐和茱麗葉、薩斯西和潘諾、多迪、戴安娜、赫爾和拉哈 , 這是愛 ! 第三個男人:我最害怕......
woman: you're asking me a hard question .	女子:你問我一個難題 。
fourth man: i live happily because what else should i do ?	第四個男人:我過得很開心 , 因為我還該做些什麼 ?
fifth man: the first thing i remember . . .	第五個男人:我記得的第一件事......
fifth man: . . . from my childhood , fifth man: we were having fun , biking .	第五個男人:從我小時候 , 第五個男人:我們有趣 , 騎腳踏車 。
seventh man: we invented stories , we flew around the world , while remaining in our attic .	第七個男人:我們發明了故事 , 我們飛到世界各地 , 同時還在我們的閣樓中 。
eighth man: i had a big laugh today .	第八個男人:我今天有個大笑 。
ninth man: you see , family is . . . it's awful .	第九個男人:你看 , 家人是...很糟 。
10th man: in the word life , you have the life .	第十個男人:在生活中 , 你有生命 。
11th man: who am i ? isn't that the biggest question ?	第十一個男人:我是誰 ? 這不是最大的問題嗎 ?
12th man: if i was to go back to iraq and speak to the people , i'd have to bow down and kiss their feet .	第十二個男人:如果我回到伊拉克 , 和人民說話 , 我就得向下吹 , 親吻他們的腳 。
just as that woman tried to kiss my feet when we were taking her sons .	正如那位女士試著親吻我腳時 , 我們要照顧她的兒子 。
and i feel humbled by their strength .	我對他們的力量感到謙卑 。
and i will forever feel a need to make reparations to iraq .	我永遠感覺到 , 需要對伊拉克做出回應 。
second woman: dad , mom , i grew up .	第二個女人:爸爸 , 媽 , 我長大了 。
you shouldn't worry about me . dad doesn't need to go to work .	你不該擔心我 。 爸爸不需要上班 。
my family . . . what can i say ?	我的家人......我能說什麼 ?
at the moment , my family is very poor , my life here in shenzhen is just about showing myself that i can earn more and to let my parents stay and have something to live on .	目前 , 我的家人非常貧窮 , 我在深圳的人生 , 只是為了證明我能賺更多錢 , 讓我的父母能繼續生活 。
i don't want them to spend their whole lives in poverty .	我不希望他們一輩子都生活在貧窮之中 。
if someday i can achieve something , i would like to say thank you daddy and mommy .	如果有一天我能做到某件事 , 我會說謝謝你爸爸和媽媽 。
thank you for having fed me and raised me , and for making my life of today . thank you .	感謝你餵我養了我 , 養育我 , 為我今天的生活 。 謝謝 。
13th man: after seven years now of being in a wheelchair , i've done more in life being in a chair than out of a chair .	第十三個男人:在坐輪椅七年後 , 我在椅子裡做過更多的事 。
i still surf . i sail the world . i freedive .	我仍然衝浪 , 我航行這個世界 。 我自由 。
after many people said i couldn't do that .	許多人說我做不到 。
and i think that comes from connecting with nature , connecting with the energy of life , because we're all disabled in some way on the planet spiritually , mentally or physically .	我認為那來自於與大自然連結 , 與生命的能量相連 , 因為我們都在某種程度上 , 在地球上 , 精神上 , 或身體上都有殘疾 。
i got the easy part .	我得到了簡單的部分 。
14th man: let's say that you and me like each other .	第十四個男人:假設你和我都喜歡對方 。
you come from elsewhere .	你來自其他地方 。
you don't know me . i don't know you .	你不認識我 , 我不知道你 。
we talk without lying .	我們不說謊 。
if i do like you , i give you one cow and many other things and we become friends .	如果我跟你一樣 , 我給你一頭牛和許多其他東西 , 我們就成了朋友 。
how can we make it all by ourselves ?	我們要如何讓一切都靠我們自己 ?
yab: you can also go to the website , answer respond to the questions also .	yab:你也可以上這個網站 , 回答這個問題 。
now i am going to speak to you about my movie .	現在我要跟各位談我的電影 。
for the last three years , i was shooting the earth for the movie .	過去三年 , 我在拍攝地球的電影 。
the name of the movie is " home " " maison . "	這部電影的名字是 「 家 」 。
it is about the state of the planet .	重點是地球的狀態 。
it's a fantastic story of life on the earth .	它是地球上生命的神奇故事 。
i'm very proud to show you the teaser .	我很驕傲地向你們展示這個茶器 。
video: this earth is four and a half billion years old .	影片:地球已經有四十五億年了 。
these plants , several hundred million years old .	這些植物 , 已經有數億年前了 。
and we humans have been walking upright for only 200 thousand years .	我們人類已經直立行走了20萬年 。
we've managed to adapt , and have conquered the whole planet .	我們成功地適應整個星球 。
for generations , we've been raising our children , not unlike millions of other species living beside us .	數世代以來 , 我們都在養育我們的孩子 , 不像其他數百萬種住在我們旁邊的物種 。
for the past 30 years i've been closely watching the earth and its dwellers from high up in the sky .	過去30年來 , 我親眼目睹地球和它在天空中高高處的居民 。
our life is tied to the wellbeing of our planet .	我們的生命與地球的幸福有關 。
we depend on water , forests , deserts , oceans .	我們依賴水、森林、沙漠、海洋 。
fishing , breeding , farming are still the world's foremost human occupations .	捕魚 , 繁殖 , 農業仍然是世界上最先進的人類佔領 。
and what binds us together is far greater than what divides us .	把我們結合在一起 , 遠遠比我們分裂的東西還要多 。
we all share the same need for the earth's gifts the same wish to rise above ourselves , and become better .	我們都對地球的天賦有同樣的需求 , 希望能超越我們自己 , 變得更好 。
and yet we carry on raising walls to keep us apart .	然而 , 我們在養育牆壁上留住我們 。
today our greatest battle is to protect the natural offerings of our planet .	今天 , 我們最大的戰役是要保護地球的天然資源 。
in less than 50 years we've altered it more thoroughly than in the entire history of mankind .	不到50年 , 我們已經徹底地改變了它 , 遠超過人類歷史上的所有歷史 。
half of the world's forests have vanished .	世界一半的森林消失了 。
water resources are running low .	水資源很低 。
intensive farming is depleting soils .	密集農業正在耗盡土壤 。
our energy sources are not sustainable .	我們的能源來源並不是永續的 。
the climate is changing .	氣候正在改變 。
we are endangering ourselves .	我們正在危及自己 。
we're only trying to improve our lives .	我們只想改善我們的生活 。
but the wealth gaps are growing wider .	但財富差距越來越大 。
we haven't yet understood that we're going at a much faster pace than the planet can sustain .	我們尚未明白 , 我們的速度比地球能維持的速度還要快很多 。
we know that solutions are available today .	我們知道解決方案現今是可行的 。
we all have the power to change this trend for the better .	我們都有能力改變這個趨勢 , 讓它更好 。
so what are we waiting for ?	所以 , 我們在等什麼 ?
yab: luc besson is the producer of the movie .	比爾貝森:盧克•貝森是電影的製作人 。
but it is not a normal movie .	但這不是正常的電影 。
the film is going to be distributed free .	這部電影將免費分發 。
this film has no copyright .	這部電影沒有版權 。
on the five of june , the environment day , everybody can download the movie on internet .	在六月五日 , 環境日 , 每個人都可以在網路上下載這部電影 。
the film is given for free to the distributor for tv and theater to show it the fifth of june .	這部電影免費提供給電視和劇院的散播者 , 讓它看一下六月五日 。
there is no business on this movie .	這部電影沒有生意 。
it is also available for school , cities , ngos and you .	它也能為學校、城市、非政府組織和你取得 。
we have to believe what we know .	我們必須相信我們所知道的 。
let me tell you something .	讓我告訴你一些事情 。
it's too late to be pessimistic really too late .	太遲了 , 太悲觀了 。
we have all a part of the solutions .	我們都有解決方案的一部分 。
to finish , i would like to welcome the 4 , 700th baby born since the beginning of this talk .	最後 , 我想歡迎從這場演講開始後的四千七百個嬰兒出生 。
merci beaucoup . i love you .	mercibeaucoup , 我愛你 。
illustrious jugglers the raspyni brothers show off their uncanny balance , agility , coordination and willingness to sacrifice . now , if you'll just stand completely still . . .	優秀的雜耍者 , 拉斯普尼兄弟展現出他們不可思議的平衡、敏捷度、協調和意願去犧牲 。 現在 , 如果你完全堅持下去......
collaboration , entertainment , humor , physics	合作、娛樂、幽默、物理、物理學、合作、合作、娛樂、娛樂、娛樂、娛樂、幽默、幽默、物理、物理 。
the raspyni brothers juggle and jest	拉斯普尼兄弟雜耍和傑斯特 。
dan holzman: please throw out the beanbag chairs . here we go .	丹•霍爾曼:請把豆腐椅子丟出來 。 這裡 。
barry friedman: there are all kinds of hightech chairs here today , but this is really , i think , when it reached its peak as far as ergonomics , comfort , design , flexibility . . .	巴里•弗里德曼:現今這裡有各種高科技椅子 , 但我認為 , 這真的是當它達到最高峰時 , 到達農業、舒適、設計、靈活度......
dh: now obviously , this is not something we do on our regular show ; it's something we just kind of learned for this , so we're going to try . but can we have some inspirational music for the beanbag chairs ?	顯然 , 這不是我們平常的節目 , 而是我們剛學會了什麼 , 所以我們會試試 。 但我們能不能為beanbag椅帶來一些啟發性的音樂 ?
bf: nice show , daniel , nice show . you are the man !	很好的節目 , 丹尼爾 , 很好的節目 。 你是那個人 !
nice show . man , that was good !	很棒的節目 。 老兄 , 很好 !
bf: you know , sometimes when people do those , they go all the way down .	布:你知道 , 有時候當人們這麼做時 , 他們就會一路下降 。
you actually just did that .	你剛剛就這麼做了 。
that's the kind of extra effort that's gotten us where we are today . . .	這就是我們今天所在之處的額外努力 。
dh: all right , let's show them something special .	好 , 讓我們給他們看一些特別的東西 。
bf: . . . without a macarthur grant .	布:沒有麥卡瑟獎勵 。
yeah , look at this . you know , all kinds of different . . .	是的 , 看看這個 。 你知道的 , 各種不同的......
ted is about invention , let's be honest . right ? dh: yeah , it is .	ted是關於發明 , 老實說 , 對吧 ? dh:是的 。
bf: last night , michael moschen showed some juggling props he has invented and working on .	昨晚 , michaelmoschen展現了一些雜耍的道具 , 他發明了和工作 。
right now , dan's going to show something he actually invented .	現在 , 丹將要展示他發明的東西 。
dh: a type of juggling i actually invented , right after i saw another juggler do it .	dh:一種我發明的雜耍 , 就在我看過另一個雜耍演員之後 。
dh: and this is a small excerpt from a longer piece .	這是一段長時間的一段小片段 。
folks , this is shaker cup juggling . it's not a showstopper but it certainly slows it down .	各位 , 這是杯子雜耍 。 這不是表演者 , 但它肯定會減緩它 。
bf: oh yeah , it does .	噢 , 是的 , 是的 。
bf: oh , daniel .	喔 , 丹尼爾 。
bf: ok . dh: oh ! all right .	噢 ! 好吧 !
i'm now pushing my luck: i'm skipping right to six cups .	我現在正把我的運氣推到六個杯子上 。
in order to do six cups , i must have perfect control over three with my right hand .	為了做六個杯子 , 我必須用我的右手控制完美 。
bf: also three with his left .	布:左邊還有三個 。
and now , all six cups . should i do it on the first try or should i miss once on purpose ?	現在 , 全部六個杯子 。 我應該先試試一次還是我應該錯過 ?
bf: first try ? once on purpose ?	第一次嘗試 ? 一次是目的 ?
dh: how about if i try first and then decide ?	如果我先試試 , 然後決定呢 ?
bf: good idea . let's leave that . we'll leave that door open .	布:好主意 。 咱們離開 。 我們把門打開 。
dh: he's looking at me .	他看著我 。
bf: that's all right , he does that . all right .	沒錯 , 他做到了 。
dh: oh ! it's time for richard's help .	噢 ! 該是理查幫忙的時候了 。
oh , good . all right .	喔 , 好 , 好 。
bf: you know , over the years , every year at the conference , it's kind of become a tradition for us to do something dangerous with richard . and we've always done something with the bullwhips in our act . it's funny , for years i did it with daniel holding balloons .	布:這些年來 , 每一年在研討會上 , 我們都變成了一種傳統 , 讓我們和理查做一些危險的事 。 我們一直都在做一些事 , 在我們的行動中 , 很有趣的是 , 我和丹尼爾拿著氣球 。
and then we thought , " how stupid . "	然後我們想: 「 多麼愚蠢 。 」
dh: excuse me , could we work on the design of the microphone ?	抱歉 , 我們能否設計麥克風的麥克風 ?
bf: i think that's the next session .	布:我認為這是下一場演講 。
bf: yeah . and so we've actually found a way to incorporate richard in this .	布:是的 。 所以我們真的找到一個結合理查的方法 。
he actually assumes more of the danger in this .	實際上 , 他更認為這個現象的危險性 。
dh: please stand up , richard .	請站起來 , 理查 。
dh: now richard , please . . .	現在理查 , 拜託...
bf: ok , sorry .	好 , 抱歉 。
dh: jesus christ . richard , please stand in front of me .	耶穌基督 。 理查 , 請站在我面前 。
richard wurman: can i say something ?	理查•沃爾曼:我能說些什麼嗎 ?
rw: in all past years i've rehearsed with them , the things that have happened to me i have no idea what's going to happen and that's the truth .	雷恩:過去幾年 , 我一直都在和他們排練 , 發生在我身上的事 , 我完全不知道接下來會發生什麼事 , 那就是真相 。
dh: all right , please stand here in front . . .	好 , 請站在前面...
god , i hate that . put your hands out like this , please .	天啊 , 我討厭這個 。 請你們的手像這樣 , 拜託 。
bf: no , come stay up with him .	班:不 , 請跟他站在一起 。
dan used to actually hold them but now he's got you for protection .	丹以前是真的抱著他們 , 但現在他要你保護你 。
it's kind of neat . ok .	有點棒 。 好 。
dh: wow , you've been working out .	哇 , 你一直在工作 。
bf: no , shut up !	布:不 , 閉嘴 !
having a little bit of richard time . that's nice , that's good .	有一點點理查時間 , 很好 , 很好 。
ok , here we go .	好 , 來吧 。
have him hold your wrist so i can . . .	請他拿著你的手腕 , 這樣我才能...
dh: please hold my wrist , will you . bf: yeah , hold this a minute .	請握住我的手腕 , 你會 。 等等 。
ok , hold on .	好 , 等等 。
bf: all those midyear phone calls are coming back to me now , richard .	布:所有這些中年電話都回來了 , 理查 。
dh: so richard , what were we on the list ? like 1 , 020 ?	理查 , 我們在列表上了什麼 ? 像1 , 020 ?
bf: i think we were just outside .	布:我認為我們只是在外面 。
dh: sorry . bf: having some bad flashbacks .	抱歉 。 bf:有一些壞的閃光 。
rw: do you want me to hold you or not ? dh: don't hold me that hard .	雷恩:你要我抱著你嗎 ? dh:不要抱著我 。
bf: here we go , i'm taking it .	來吧 , 我接受了 。
dh: one more , one more .	再一個 , 一個 。
bf: we've got one more we're going to do .	布:我們還有一件事要做 。
rw: do i get to hold them ?	雷恩:我有拿到嗎 ?
bf: you don't want to hold these , trust me .	請相信我 。
dh: could you spread your legs a little bit ?	德:你能把你的腿分開一點嗎 ?
bf: gloria , you want to do it ? it's very cool .	布:格洛里亞 , 你想做嗎 ? 很酷 。
one more try . man , i don't want to get too close .	再試一次 。 老兄 , 我不想太靠近 。
could you just push that ?	你能把這推一下嗎 ?
dh: wow ! boy !	哇 !
bf: that's cool . i always wanted to try that .	太酷了 。 我總是想試試看 。
dh: let's jump this way , though .	不過 , 讓我們這樣跳 。
now , we risked richard's life , it's only fair we risk our own lives .	我們冒著理查的生活 , 只是公平地冒著自己的生命 。
so to do that , i will juggle these three razorsharp sickles .	所以 , 為了做到這一點 , 我會用這三種鋒利的鐮刀來做 。
and if that wasn't enough , and judging by your response , it's not . . .	如果這還不夠 , 評斷你的反應 , 那就不夠了......
dh: wow ! bf: hoping for a little more build .	哇 ! 哇 ! 希望能再蓋一點 。
dh: true . barry . . .	沒錯 , ......
bf: i'm going to run up behind him .	布:我要跑到他後面 。
dh: leap over my shoulder .	跳過我的肩膀 。
bf: up and over his shoulders .	布:向上和他的肩膀 。
dh: grab the blades in midair , land right there in a pool of blood . . .	dh:抓住半空中的閃光 , 就在一池血中 。
impossible , you say ?	你說不可能 ?
bf: incredible , you say ?	很不可思議吧 ?
dh: why bother , you say ?	你說:為什麼要煩呢 ?
bf: here we go .	來吧 。
dh: just do it juggler boys , you say ?	你說嗎 ?
bf: this guy , this guy invented air .	布:這個傢伙 , 他發明了空氣 。
dh: i think so , that's right .	我想 , 沒錯 。
bf: he invented the pencil .	他發明了鉛筆 。
dh: all right , we'll do this trick , but please remember it took us over 10 years to perfect .	好吧 , 我們會做這個技倆 , 但請記住 , 花了超過十年的時間 , 才會完美 。
bf: ten years to perfect , which you're about to see .	你即將看到的 , 已經十年了 。
dh: it's not that difficult , we just don't like to practice that much .	沒那麼難 , 我們只是不太喜歡去練習 。
bf: no , it's a hassle . traveling too much .	布:不 , 這是個哈斯le 。 太多旅行 。
actually , we will take a second to prove this could be fake that the blades are indeed razorsharp .	事實上 , 我們要花一秒鐘來證明這可能是假的 , 假的確是雷札爾普 。
dh: will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage ?	有人會把小農場丟到台上嗎 ?
or a virgin for a sacrifice ?	或是犧牲的處女 ?
bf: no , she's got . . . farm animal .	布:不 , 她有......農場動物 。
dh: do you have a small farm animal ?	你有隻農場小動物嗎 ?
just trying to play the odds . all right , here we go .	只是試著彈出奇數 , 好吧 , 開始吧 。
bf: over the top , over the top .	布:在頂端 , 在頂端 。
dh: how you feeling , barry ? you feeling all right ?	你感覺如何 , 巴里 ? 你感覺好嗎 ?
bf: yeah , it's all right .	沒錯 。
dh: do you feel everything's ok ? the atmosphere , the . . .	你覺得一切都沒關係嗎 ? 大氣層 , 大氣層......
bf: yeah , a little sketchy .	布:是的 , 有點草圖 。
dh: everything up here's ok ?	好嗎 ?
dh: then here we go .	嗯 , 來吧 。
bf: this one's a little . . . who's doing the lights ? could you point that a little more directly into my eyeballs ? is that possible ? i can still see a little .	布:這一個有點......誰在做燈 ? 你能不能直接指向我的眼球嗎 ? 有可能嗎 ? 我還能稍微看一點 。
dh: and turn up the intensity ; we're still pink in the middle .	強度 , 我們還在中間粉紅色 。
we went too far .	我們走得太遠 。
bf: yeah , it's too far . it's too much of a visual .	沒錯 , 太遠了 , 太多視覺了 。
the design of the body is a whole different thing .	身體的設計是完全不同的 。
dh: ready , barry ? bf: over the top .	準備好了嗎 ? bf:在上面 。
dh: may we have our jumping music please ?	拜託 , 我們能不能讓我們的跳躍音樂 ?
may we have it a bit louder ?	難道我們有一點大聲嗎 ?
bf: they're a good crew ! whoa !	布:他們是很好的團隊 ! 哇 !
dh: whoa , sorry . all right .	哇 , 對不起 。
bf: we're going on .	布:我們正在進行 。
dh: all right , we'll try again .	好 , 我們再試一次 。
bf: all right ? oh my gosh . oh .	好嗎 ? 我的天啊 ! 噢 !
dh: all right , here we go . sorry about that .	好 , 抱歉 。
bf: i thought i had the hard part . ok .	布:我以為我有困難的部分 。 好 。
dh: whenever you're ready .	無論何時準備好 。
bf: there we go !	太棒了 !
all right , get up ! come on and dance ! dh: dance , come on . bf: come on and dance !	好吧 , 站起來 ! 來跳舞 ! 嘿 , 拜託 ! 拜託 ! 拜託 !
somebody dance ! come on !	有人跳 ! 拜託 !
wow , wow , ok , stop .	哇 , 好 , 停下來 。
weird , no one dances . we're two guys doing this .	奇怪的是 , 沒有一個舞蹈 。 我們是兩個人 。
i think that's uncomfortable for everyone .	我認為這對每個人來說是不舒服的 。
dh: the french judge . . .	法國法官......
bf: one more quick thing .	再加快一點 。
dh: the french judge gives it a 5 . 2 .	法國法官給它5.2 。
bf: well , you know . . .	布:嗯 , 你知道......
dh: there you go . . . bf: oh , yeah . another one coming in .	噢 , 是的 , 另外一個進來了 。
dh: tell them about our bio and stuff .	告訴他們關於我們的生物和其他東西 。
bf: yeah . in our bio , some of you may have read that we've won two world juggling championships .	布:是的 , 在我們的生物中 , 有些人可能讀過 , 我們贏得了兩個世界雜耍冠軍 。
and believe it or not , you don't win juggling champions for doing things with bullwhips or shaker cups .	信不信由你 , 你不會贏得雜耍冠軍 , 因為你用推文或打破杯子來做事 。
we're going to show you right now an excerpt from a routine that we used to wipe out the other juggling team competition .	我們現在要給你們看一段我們以前用來擦掉其他雜耍隊伍的演說 。
dh: i know what you're thinking: other juggling teams must really suck .	我知道你們在想什麼:其他雜耍隊真的很糟 。
bf: juggling's got a bad rap .	朱格林有很糟的饒舌 。
dh: but wait , barry , there's still one more club lying there by my foot .	等等 , 巴里 , 再有一根俱樂部躺在我腳邊 。
and look , it has a twin !	看 , 它有雙胞胎 !
dh: there's still one more by my foot .	我的腳還剩下一個 。
what do you want me to do with it ?	你要我怎麼做 ?
bf: richard you tell him , it's your last year .	布:理查你告訴他 , 那是你去年的事 。
dh: that's a pretty good setup , richard .	沒錯 , 理查 。
bf: yeah , it's a good setup . that's a big setup .	沒錯 , 這是個很好的設置 。 這是個很大的設置 。
dh: you can't get any better than that . all right . what i will do: i will use my pantherlike reflexes .	dh:你沒辦法得到更好的 。 好的 。 我會做的是:我會用我的清潔儀式反射 。
dh: i got that to reach down and grab that club in my grip of steel .	dh:我抓住那個俱樂部 , 抓住那個俱樂部 。
dh: i touched it , barry . that should be enough .	我摸了它 , 巴里 。 那應該夠了 。
bf: it's progress , that's the thing .	布:這是進步 , 就是這樣 。
dh: how about that ? i'll do it again .	那怎麼辦 ? 我再做一次 。
oh wait , it's on your side , barry .	喔 , 等等 , 在你這邊 , 巴瑞 。
and it's awfully windy over there .	那裡的風力很大 。
bf: it is , it's weird . you wouldn't think it would affect half the stage , but it is . it's weird .	很奇怪 , 你不會認為它會影響到半個舞台 , 但它很奇怪 。
watch this: what i'm going to do is slide the seventh one onto my foot .	看這個:我要做的是把第七個放到我的腳上 。
dh: wow ! what a great trick , barry !	哇 ! 太棒了 ! 貝瑞 !
oh , look how it lies there .	喔 , 看它是怎麼躺在那裡的 。
oh , barry , is there nothing you can't do ?	喔 , 巴里 , 你做不到什麼嗎 ?
you are my hero . you're my jim shea , jr .	你是我的英雄 , 你是我的吉姆•希亞 , jr 。
bf: from my foot , i'll attempt to kick the seventh club . here we go .	布:從我的腳 , 我會試著去踢第七個俱樂部 。 來吧 。
dh: where , barry ? where ? tell us , barry .	貝瑞:在哪裡 ? 哪裡 ? 告訴我們貝瑞 。
[unclear] eagerly awaits your next syllable . what will it be ?	[不清楚][不清楚][不清楚][不清楚]它會是什麼樣子 ?
what gem of knowledge ?	什麼樣的知識 ?
what pearl of wisdom ?	什麼珍珠的智慧 ?
do you want to buy a vowel , barry ?	你想買一個母音嗎 ?
is that your final answer ?	這是你最後的答案嗎 ?
bf: all right ! you have to turn off the tv from time to time .	布:好的 ! 你必須隨時關掉電視 。
dh: i do , i do .	沒錯 , 我是 。
bf: from my foot , the kick up in the seven .	從我的腳開始 , 七個就開始了 。
dh: we will juggle seven .	觀眾:我們要玩七個 。
bf: from six to seven . dh: that's a world's record . bf: really ? dh: for us .	觀眾:從6到7:這是世界紀錄 。 觀眾:真的嗎 ? dh:對我們 。
dh: whenever you're ready there , big guy .	無論何時你準備好了 , 大傢伙 。
put your tongue away , barry .	把你的舌頭放開 , 巴瑞 。
bf: oh , oh , whoa .	噢 , 哇 !
dh: please , please stay seated . stay seated . thank you .	請坐下來 , 請坐下來 。 謝謝 。
because now , to make this twice as difficult , we'll juggle the seven clubs back . . .	因為 , 要做到這兩倍困難 , 我們會把七個俱樂部拿回來──
dh: . . . to back .	嗯 , 回來 。
bf: thank you , that's it .	布:謝謝你 , 就這樣 。
bf: thank you guys !	謝謝大家 !
dh: thank you very much !	非常謝謝 !
in this accessible talk from tedxboston , richard resnick shows how cheap and fast genome sequencing is about to turn health care upside down .	在這場tedxboston的演講中 , 理查德.雷尼克的演講顯示 , 將來將健康照護的低價和快速基因序列調低 。
dna , biotech , health care , science , technology	dna , 生物科技 , 健康照護 , 科學 , 科技 。
richard resnick: welcome to the genomic revolution	理查•雷斯尼克:歡迎來到基因革命中 , 歡迎來到基因革命 。
ladies and gentlemen , i present to you the human genome .	各位先生女士 , 我向你們展示人類基因組 。
chromosome one , top left .	染色體一 , 左上角 。
bottom right are the sex chromosomes .	右下方是性染色體 。
women have two copies of that big x chromosome ; men have the x and , of course , that small copy of the y .	女性有兩份大x染色體的複製品 ; 男性有x , 當然 , 那個y的小複製品 。
sorry boys , but it's just a tiny little thing that makes you different .	抱歉男孩 , 但這只是個小東西 , 讓你不同 。
so if you zoom in on this genome , then what you see , of course , is this double helix structure the code of life spelled out with these four biochemical letters , or we call them bases , right: a , c , g and t .	所以 , 如果你放大這個基因組 , 你會看到這個雙螺旋結構 , 生命的密碼和這四個生物化學信件的密碼 , 或我們稱之為基礎:a , c , g和t 。
how many are there in the human genome ? three billion .	人類基因組中有多少 ? 三十億 。
is that a big number ?	這是一個很大的數字嗎 ?
well , everybody can throw around big numbers .	嗯 , 每個人都可以投擲大數字 。
but in fact , if i were to place one base on each pixel of this 1280 by 800 resolution screen , we would need 3 , 000 screens to take a look at the genome .	但事實上 , 如果我要在這個1280年到800次的解析度螢幕上放一個鹼基 , 我們需要3 , 000個螢幕來觀察基因組 。
so it's really quite big .	所以它真的很大 。
and perhaps because of its size , a group of people all , by the way , with y chromosomes decided they would want to sequence it .	或許是因為它的大小 , 一群人 , 順便一提 , y染色體決定要將它定序 。
and so 15 years , actually , and about four billion dollars later , the genome was sequenced and published .	實際上 , 15年後 , 大約40億美金後 , 基因組被排序並發表 。
in 2003 , the final version was published , and they keep working on it .	在2003年 , 最後一個版本被刊出 , 他們持續研究它 。
that was all done on a machine that looks like this .	這一切都在一個像這樣的機器上完成 。
it costs about a dollar for each base a very slow way of doing it .	每個基地都要花一塊錢 , 一個非常慢的做法 。
well folks , i'm here to tell you that the world has completely changed and none of you know about it .	各位 , 我來這裡是要告訴你們 , 世界已經完全改變了 , 你們都不知道 。
so now what we do is we take a genome , we make maybe 50 copies of it , we cut all those copies up into little 50base reads , and then we sequence them , massively parallel .	現在我們把基因組做成50份複製品 , 我們把這些複製品做成50頁然後我們將它們定序 , 大規模平行 。
and then we bring that into software , and we reassemble it and we tell you what the story is .	然後我們把它帶到軟體中 , 我們重新組合它 , 告訴你們故事是什麼 。
and so just to give you a picture of what this looks like , the human genome project: 3 gigabases , right .	所以 , 給各位看這張圖片 , 人類基因組計畫:3gbass , 對吧 。
one run on one of these machines: 200 gigabases in a week .	一台在其中一台機器上運行:一週內有200個gbabases 。
and that 200 is going to change to 600 this summer , and there's no sign of this pace slowing .	今年夏天 , 這兩百人將改變到六百人 , 這步調沒有減速的跡象 。
so the price of a base , to sequence a base , has fallen 100 million times .	所以 , 根據基礎定序的價格下降了一億倍 。
that's the equivalent of you filling up your car with gas in 1998 , waiting until 2011 , and now you can drive to jupiter and back twice .	這相當於你在1998年用氣體填滿車子 , 等到2011年 , 現在你可以開到木星和後面兩次 。
world population , pc placements , the archive of all the medical literature , moore's law , the old way of sequencing , and here's all the new stuff .	世界人口、pc地點、所有醫學文獻的檔案、摩爾定律、舊的定序方式 , 還有新的東西 。
guys , this is a log scale ; you don't typically see lines that go up like that .	各位 , 這是物流尺度 , 通常你不會看到這樣的線條 。
so the worldwide capacity to sequence human genomes is something like 50 , 000 to 100 , 000 human genomes this year .	所以 , 全球人類基因組定序的能力是今年大約五萬到十萬的人類基因組 。
and we know this based on the machines that are being placed .	我們知道這個基於被安置的機器 。
this is expected to double , triple or maybe quadruple year over year for the foreseeable future .	預期會增加兩倍、三倍或四倍 , 年復一年 , 才能預見到可預見的未來 。
in fact , there's one lab in particular that represents 20 percent of all that capacity .	事實上 , 特別有一間實驗室 , 代表所有能力的20% 。
it's called the beijing genomics institute .	它叫做北京基因組學院 。
the chinese are absolutely winning this race to the new moon , by the way .	順道一提 , 中國人對新的月球贏得了這個比賽 。
what does this mean for medicine ?	這對醫學有什麼意義 ?
so a woman is age 37 .	一個女人37歲 。
she presents with stage 2 estrogen receptorpositive breast cancer .	她展示了第二階段的雌激素接收乳癌 。
she is treated with surgery , chemotherapy and radiation .	她接受手術、化療和輻射治療 。
two years later , she comes back with stage three c ovarian cancer .	兩年後 , 她帶著三個卵巢癌復發 。
unfortunately , treated again with surgery and chemotherapy .	不幸的是 , 再次用手術和化療來治療 。
she comes back three years later at age 42 with more ovarian cancer , more chemotherapy .	三年後 , 她在42歲時 , 患有更多卵巢癌、更多化療 。
six months later , she comes back with acute myeloid leukemia .	六個月後 , 她帶著急性骨髓性白血病回來 。
she goes into respiratory failure and dies eight days later .	她進入呼吸衰竭 , 八天後就死了 。
so first , the way in which this woman was treated , in as little as 10 years , will look like bloodletting .	首先 , 這個女人被治療的方式 , 在短短的10年內 , 看起來會像血液一樣 。
and it's because of people like my colleague , rick wilson , at the genome institute at washington university , who decided to take a look at this woman postmortem .	因為像我的同事 , 瑞克.威爾森 , 在華盛頓大學的基因研究所 , 她決定看看這位女士後期 。
and he sequenced , he took skin cells , healthy skin , and cancerous bone marrow , and he sequenced the whole genomes of both of them in a couple of weeks , no big deal .	他的基因序列 , 皮膚細胞、健康的皮膚和癌症骨髓 , 在幾週內 , 他定序了兩者的基因組 , 沒什麼大不了的 。
and then he compared those two genomes in software , and what he found , among other things , was a deletion , a 2 , 000base deletion across three billion bases in a particular gene called tp53 .	然後他把這兩組基因組拿來做軟體比較 , 他發現 , 在其他東西中 , 是一個耗損 , 一個兩千多億個鹼基 , 一個叫做tp53的基因 。
if you have this deleterious mutation in this gene , you're 90 percent likely to get cancer in your life .	如果你在這個基因中有突變 , 你就有90%的可能性在你的生命中得到癌症 。
so unfortunately , this doesn't help this woman , but it does have severe , profound if you will , implications to her family .	不幸的是 , 這並沒有幫助這位女士 , 但如果你願意的話 , 它的確有嚴重的、深刻的影響她的家人 。
i mean , if they have the same mutation , and they get this genetic test , and they understand it , then they can go and get regular screens , and they can catch cancer early and potentially live a significantly longer life .	我的意思是 , 如果他們有相同的突變 , 他們得到了這個基因測試 , 然後他們明白了 , 那麼他們就可以定期篩檢 , 他們可以早期發現癌症 , 甚至可能活得更長壽 。
let me introduce you now to the beery twins , diagnosed with cerebral palsy at the age of two .	讓我向你們介紹啤酒雙胞胎 , 在兩歲時被診斷出腦性麻痺 。
their mom is a very brave woman who didn't believe that the symptoms weren't matching up , and through some heroic efforts and a lot of internet searching , she was able to convince the medical community that , in fact , they had something else .	他們的媽媽是個非常勇敢的女人 , 她不相信症狀和一些英雄的努力和許多網路搜尋 , 她能夠說服醫學界 , 事實上 , 他們有別的東西 。
what they had was doparesponsive dystonia .	他們所擁有的就是分離性dstonia 。
and so they were given ldopa , and their symptoms did improve , but they weren't totally asymptomatic .	所以他們得到了dopa , 他們的症狀確實改善了 , 但他們並沒有完全不符合症狀 。
turns out the gentleman in this picture is a guy named joe beery , who was lucky enough to be the cio of a company called life technologies .	這張照片裡的先生叫joebeery他很幸運能成為一家叫做生命科技的公司
they're one of the two companies that makes these massive whole genome sequencing tools .	他們是兩家公司之一 , 製造出大量的基因定序工具 。
and so what he did was he got his kids sequenced .	所以他所做的是讓他的孩子順序 。
and what they found was a series of mutations in a gene called spr , which is responsible for producing serotonin , among other things .	他們發現 , 一系列突變發生在一個叫做spr的基因中 , 這對產生血清素的產生負責 。
so on top of ldopa , they gave these kids a serotonin precursor drug , and they're effectively normal now .	所以在左上角 , 他們給了這些孩子一個血清素的先驅藥 , 現在他們很正常 。
guys , this would never have happened without whole genome sequencing .	沒有完整的基因定序 , 這絕對不會發生 。
and at the time this was a few years ago it cost $100 , 000 .	幾年前 , 成本是10萬美金 。
today it's $10 , 000 . next year it's $1 , 000 .	今天是一萬美金 。 明年是一千美金 。
the year after it's $100 , give or take a year .	一年後 , 要花100美元 , 或花一年 。
that's how fast this is moving .	這就是移動速度 。
so here's little nick likes batman and squirt guns .	這裡有小小的尼克喜歡蝙蝠俠和松鼠槍 。
and it turns out nick shows up at the children's hospital with this distended belly like a famine victim .	結果發現 , 尼克出現在兒童醫院裡 , 帶著這種不良的肚子 , 就像一個飢荒的受害者 。
and it's not that he's not eating , it's that when he eats , his intestine basically opens up and feces spill out into his gut .	並不是說他沒有吃東西 , 而是當他吃東西時 , 他的腸道基本上會打開 , 排泄物進入他的腸道 。
so a hundred surgeries later , he looks at his mom and says , " mom , please pray for me . i'm in so much pain . "	一百多次手術後 , 他看著他的媽媽說: 「 媽 , 拜託我 , 我很痛苦 。 」
his pediatrician happens to have a background in clinical genetics and he has no idea what's going on , but he says , " let's get this kid's genome sequenced . "	他的小兒科醫生剛好有臨床遺傳學的背景 , 他完全不知道發生了什麼事 , 但他說: 「 讓我們把這個孩子的基因序列拿出來 。 」
and what they find is a singlepoint mutation in a gene responsible for controlling programmed cell death .	他們發現一個基因突變 , 負責控制細胞死亡的基因 。
so the theory is that he's having some immunological reaction to what's going on to the food essentially , and that's a natural reaction , which causes some programmed cell death .	理論是 , 他對食物的生理反應有一些免疫反應 , 基本上 , 這是自然的反應 , 造成了一些編寫細胞死亡 。
but the gene that regulates that down is broken .	但那些調節下來的基因已經破壞了 。
and so this informs , among other things , of course , a treatment for bone marrow transplant , which he undertakes .	當然 , 這也提供了骨髓移植的治療 , 他接受了這個治療 。
and after nine months of grueling recovery , he's now eating steak with a1 sauce .	經過九個月的可怕康復之後 , 他現在正在吃一口沙發 。
the prospect of using the genome as a universal diagnostic is upon us today .	用基因組作為普遍診斷的前景 , 現今就在我們身上 。
today , it's here .	今天 , 它就在這裡 。
and what it means for all of us is that everybody in this room could live an extra five , 10 , 20 years just because of this one thing .	對我們所有人而言 , 這意味著在這間房間裡的每個人都可以多活五、十年、二十年 , 只因為這一件事 。
which is a fantastic story , unless you think about humanity's footprint on the planet and our ability to keep up food production .	這是個很棒的故事 , 除非你想到地球上人類的足跡 , 以及我們能維持食物生產的能力 。
so it turns out that the very same technology is also being used to grow new lines of corn , wheat , soybean and other crops that are highly tolerant of drought , of flood , of pests and pesticides .	結果發現 , 同樣的技術也被用來種植玉米、小麥、大豆和其他農作物 , 它們非常包容乾旱、洪水、害蟲和殺蟲劑 。
now look , as long as we continue to increase the population , we're going to have to continue to grow and eat genetically modified foods , and that's the only position that i'll take today .	看 , 只要我們繼續增加人口 , 我們就得要繼續成長、吃基因改造食物 , 而這也是我今天唯一能採取的職位 。
unless there's anybody in the audience that would like to volunteer to stop eating ?	除非觀眾中有人想要自願停止吃飯嗎 ?
none , not one .	沒有 , 沒有 。
this is a typewriter , a staple of every desktop for decades .	這是一台打字機 , 數十年來 , 每台桌上都有一架 。
and in fact , the typewriter was essentially deleted by this thing .	事實上 , 打字機基本上被這個東西刪除了 。
and then more general versions of word processors came about .	接著 , 更多的文字處理器出現了 。
but ultimately , it was a disruption on top of a disruption .	但最終 , 它是顛覆性的顛覆 。
it was bob metcalfe inventing the ethernet and the connection of all these computers that fundamentally changed everything .	它是鮑勃•金恩發明了這些電腦的連接 , 徹底改變了一切 。
and suddenly we had netscape , and we had yahoo and we had , indeed , the entire dotcom bubble .	突然間 , 我們有了netscape , 我們有了雅虎 , 我們的確有了整個網路泡泡 。
not to worry though , that was quickly rescued by the ipod , facebook and , indeed , angry birds .	不過 , 不用擔心 , 那很快就被ipod、臉書和生氣的鳥拯救了 。
look , this is where we are today .	你看 , 這就是我們今天的樣子 。
this is the genomic revolution today . this is where we are .	這就是今天的基因革命 。 這就是我們所在的地方 。
so what i'd like you to consider is: what does it mean when these dots don't represent the individual bases of your genome , but they connect to genomes all across the planet ?	所以 , 我想請各位思考的是:當這些點並不代表你基因組的個別基礎時 , 它們和整個星球的基因組連結是什麼意思 ?
so i just recently had to buy life insurance .	所以最近我只需要買保險 。
and i was required to answer: a . i have never had a genetic test , b . i've had one , here you go , and c . i've had one and i'm not telling .	我被要求回答:a.我從來沒有過基因測驗b.我有過一個 , 這裡 , c.我沒有說過 。
thankfully , i was able to answer a , and i say that honestly in case my life insurance agent is listening .	謝天謝地 , 我可以回答a , 老實說 , 以防我的保險經紀人在聆聽 。
but what would have happened if i had said c ?	但如果我說c的話 , 會發生什麼事 ?
consumer applications for genomics , they will flourish .	消費者應用在基因組上 , 他們會蓬勃發展 。
do you want to see whether you're genetically compatible with your girlfriend ? sure .	你想知道你是否與女友在基因上相容 ? 當然 。
dna sequencing on your iphone ? there's an app for that .	dna在你的iphone上定序 ? 有一個應用程式 。
personalized genomic massage anyone ?	個人化的基因按摩嗎 ?
there's already a lab today that tests for allele 334 of the avpr1 gene , the socalled cheating gene .	現今已經有一個實驗室 , 用來檢測avpr1基因的阿勒勒勒334 , 也就是所謂的作弊基因 。
so anybody who's here today with your significant other , just turn over to them and swab their mouth , send it to the lab and you'll know for sure .	所以 , 今天在這裡的任何人 , 都和你的重要人物在一起 , 轉向他們 , 轉向他們的嘴巴 , 把它送到實驗室 , 然後你就會知道 。
do you really want to elect a president whose genome suggests cardiomyopathy ?	你真的想選一個總統 , 他的基因組建議心臟病變嗎 ?
now think of it , it's 2016 and the leading candidate releases not only her four years of back tax returns , but also her personal genome .	想想看 , 2016年 , 最先進的候選人 , 不僅是她退稅的四年 , 還有她個人的基因組 。
and it looks really good .	看起來很棒 。
and then she challenges all of her competitors to do the same .	接著 , 她挑戰她所有的競爭對手做同樣的事 。
do you think that's not going to happen ?	你覺得這不會發生嗎 ?
do you think it would have helped john mccain ?	你覺得這會幫助約翰麥肯嗎 ?
how many people in the audience have the last name resnick like me ? raise your hand .	觀眾中有多少人有和我一樣的最後一個名字 ? 請舉手 。
typically , there's one or two .	通常有一兩種 。
so my father's father was one of 10 resnick brothers .	我父親的父親是十名叛軍兄弟之一 。
they all hated each other .	他們都討厭彼此 。
and they all moved to different parts of the planet .	它們都搬到地球的不同部位 。
so it's likely that i'm related to every resnick that i ever meet , but i don't know .	很可能我和每個我遇見的resnick有關 , 但我不知道 。
but imagine if my genome were deidentified , sitting in software , and a third cousin's genome was also sitting there , and there was software that could compare these two and make these associations .	但 , 想像一下 , 如果我的基因被拆解了 , 坐在軟體中 , 第三個表親的基因組也坐在那裡 , 有一個軟體可以比較這兩個 , 做出這些關聯 。
not hard to imagine . my company has software that does this right now .	難以想像 。 我的公司有軟體 , 現在就這樣做 。
and so imagine one more thing: that that software is able to ask both parties for mutual consents , " would you be willing to meet your third cousin ? "	所以 , 再試想一件事:那個軟體能要求雙方同意 , 「 你願意見你的第三表親嗎 ? 」
and if we both say yes , voila ! welcome to chromosomally linkedin .	如果我們雙方都說 , 是的 , voila ! 歡迎染色體連結在一起 。
now this is probably a good thing , right ?	這可能是件好事 , 對吧 ?
you have bigger clan gatherings and so on .	你有更大的複製品等等 。
but maybe it's a bad thing as well .	但也許這也是件壞事 。
how many fathers in the room ? raise your hands .	房間裡有多少父親 ? 請舉手 。
okay , so experts think that one to three percent of you are not actually the father of your child .	好吧 , 專家認為在座有1%到3%的人不是你孩子的父親 。
look these genomes , these 23 chromosomes , they don't in any way represent the quality of our relationships or the nature of our society at least not yet .	看看這些基因組 , 這23個染色體 , 它們在任何方面都不代表我們關係的品質 , 至少目前還沒有 。
and like any new technology , it's really in humanity's hands to wield it for the betterment of mankind , or not .	和任何新科技一樣 , 它真的是在人類的手中 , 為了人類的好處 , 或不是 。
and so i urge you all to wake up and to tune in and to influence the genomic revolution that's happening all around you .	所以我鼓勵大家起床、調整、影響你周遭發生的基因革命 。
daniel kraft demos his marrow miner a new device that quickly harvests lifesaving bone marrow with minimal pain to the donor . he emphasizes that the adult stem cells found in bone marrow can be used to treat many terminal conditions , from parkinson's to heart disease .	丹尼爾•克拉夫特展示了他的骨髓採礦器 , 它能很快地把骨髓和捐贈者保存下來 。 他強調 , 骨髓中的成人幹細胞能被用來治療許多終端條件 , 從帕金森氏症到心臟病 。
biology , biotech , health , health care , medicine , science , technology	生物、生物科技、醫療、醫療、醫學、科技、科技、科技、科技、
daniel kraft invents a better way to harvest bone marrow	丹尼爾•克拉夫特發明了更好的方式來收集骨髓 。
so i am a pediatric cancer doctor and stemcell researcher at stanford university where my clinical focus has been bone marrow transplantation .	我是一位小兒科癌醫師 , 以及史丹佛大學的幹細胞研究員 , 我的臨床專注是骨髓移植 。
now , inspired by jill bolte taylor last year , i didn't bring a human brain , but i did bring a liter of bone marrow .	去年 , 我受到jillboltetaylor的啟發 , 我並沒有帶一個人類的大腦 , 但我帶了一公升的骨髓 。
and bone marrow is actually what we use to save the lives of tens of thousands of patients , most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphoma and some other diseases .	骨髓其實就是我們用來拯救數萬名病人的生命 , 大部分患有先進的惡性腫瘤 , 如白血病、淋巴瘤和其他疾病 。
so , a few years ago , i'm doing my transplant fellowship at stanford .	所以 , 幾年前 , 我在史丹佛移植研究人員 。
i'm in the operating room . we have bob here , who is a volunteer donor .	我在手術室 。 我們這裡有bob , 他是志願捐贈者 。
we're sending his marrow across the country to save the life of a child with leukemia .	我們把他的骨髓送到全國 , 以拯救白血病的孩子 。
so actually how do we harvest this bone marrow ?	所以 , 我們要如何收集這些骨髓 ?
well we have a whole o . r . team , general anesthesia , nurses , and another doctor across from me .	我們有一整個o.r.團隊 , 將軍麻醉 , 護士 , 還有另一位來自我身上的醫生 。
bob's on the table , and we take this sort of small needle , you know , not too big .	鮑勃站在桌子上 , 我們用這種小針 , 你知道的 , 不是太大 。
and the way we do this is we basically place this through the soft tissue , and kind of punch it into the hard bone , into the tuchus that's a technical term and aspirate about 10 mls of bone marrow out , each time , with a syringe .	我們的做法基本上就是把這個放到軟組織中 , 把它插入硬骨頭 , 進入tuchus , 每次用針筒來啟動大約十磅的骨髓 。
and hand it off to the nurse . she squirts it into a tin .	把它送到護士面前 , 她將它放進一個tin 。
hands it back to me . and we do that again and again .	把它交給我 , 我們一而再再而三地這樣做 。
about 200 times usually .	通常有兩百次 。
and by the end of this my arm is sore , i've got a callus on my hand , let alone bob , whose rear end looks something more like this , like swiss cheese .	最後 , 我的手臂是索索爾 , 我手上有個通話 , 更不用說bob , 他的屁股看起來更像這樣 , 像是瑞士起司 。
so i'm thinking , you know , this procedure hasn't changed in about 40 years .	所以我在想 , 你知道 , 這種手術在40年內並沒有改變 。
and there is probably a better way to do this .	這樣做可能有更好的方法 。
so i thought of a minimally invasive approach , and a new device that we call the marrow miner .	所以我想到一個極小入侵的方法 , 我們稱之為 「 骨髓礦工 」 的新裝置 。
and the marrow miner , the way it works is shown here .	而骨髓礦工 , 它的運作方式在這裡顯示 。
our standard seethrough patient .	我們的標準來看待病患 。
instead of entering the bone dozens of times , we enter just once , into the front of the hip or the back of the hip .	與其進入骨頭幾十次 , 我們只進入骨頭 , 進入髖骨的前面 , 或髖骨的後面 。
and we have a flexible , powered catheter with a special wire loop tip that stays inside the crunchy part of the marrow and follows the contours of the hip , as it moves around .	我們有彈性、強大的導管 , 帶著特殊的電線路尖 , 留在粗糙的骨髓中 , 跟著骨髓的輪廓 , 當它移動時 。
so it enables you to very rapidly aspirate , or suck out , rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole .	所以 , 它能讓你非常迅速地吸出骨髓 , 很快地穿過一個洞 。
we can do multiple passes through that same entry .	我們可以做多次通過同樣的入口 。
and , so , very quickly , bob can just get one puncture , local anesthesia , and do this harvest as an outpatient .	所以 , 很快的 , 鮑勃就能拿到刺穿 , 當地麻醉 , 做這個收穫是門診 。
so i did a few prototypes . i got a small little grant at stanford .	所以我做了一些原型 。 我在史丹佛得到了一個小小的補助金 。
and played around with this a little bit .	再玩一下這個 。
and our team members developed this technology .	我們的團隊成員開發了這項技術 。
and eventually we got two large animals , and pig studies .	最終我們得到了兩個大型動物和豬的研究 。
and we found , to our surprise , that we not only got bone marrow out , but we got 10 times the stem cell activity in the marrow from the marrow miner , compared to the normal device .	我們驚訝地發現 , 我們不只把骨髓拿出來 , 還得到了骨髓內的幹細胞活動的10倍 , 與一般裝置相比 。
this device was just fda approved in the last year .	這個裝置是去年fda核准的 。
here is a live patient . you can see it following the flexible curves around .	這裡是活體病人 , 你可以看到它跟著靈活的曲線 。
there will be two passes here , in the same patient , from the same hole .	在同一個病人身上 , 會有兩條路 , 同一個洞 。
this was done under local anesthesia , as an outpatient .	這是在當地的麻醉劑下完成的 。
and we got , again , about three to six times more stem cells than the standard approach done on the same patient .	同樣的 , 我們得到的幹細胞比同一個病人的標準方法要多三到六倍 。
so why should you care ? bone marrow is a very rich source of adult stem cells .	你為什麼要在乎 ? 骨髓是成人幹細胞的豐富來源 。
you all know about embryonic stem cells .	你們都知道胚胎幹細胞 。
they've got great potential but haven't yet entered clinical trials .	他們有很大的潛力 , 但還沒有進入臨床試驗 。
adult stem cells are throughout our body , including the bloodforming stem cells in our bone marrow , which we've been using as a form of stemcell therapy for over 40 years .	成人幹細胞在我們的身體中 , 包括骨髓中的血液幹細胞 , 我們用這種方式來當幹細胞療法 , 已經超過40年了 。
in the last decade there's been an explosion of use of bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient's other diseases such as heart disease , vascular disease , orthopedics , tissue engineering , even in neurology to treat parkinson's and diabetes .	在過去十年間 , 用骨髓幹細胞來治療病人的其他疾病 , 比如心臟病、血管疾病、組織工程 , 甚至神經學 , 來治療帕金森氏症和糖尿病 。
we've just come out , we're commercializing , this year , generation 2 . 0 of the marrow miner .	我們剛剛出櫃 , 我們正在商業化 , 今年 , 第2.0名骨髓礦工 。
the hope is that this gets more stem cells out , which translates to better outcomes .	希望這能讓更多幹細胞被翻譯成更好的結果 。
it may encourage more people to sign up to be potential livesaving bone marrow donors .	它可能會鼓勵更多人簽署 , 成為潛在救命的骨髓捐贈者 。
it may even enable you to bank your own marrow stem cells , when you're younger and healthier , to use in the future should you need it .	甚至可以讓你在未來更年輕、更健康時 , 去銀行你自己的骨髓幹細胞 , 去使用在未來你應該需要它 。
and ultimately and here's a picture of our bone marrow transplant survivors , who come together for a reunion each year at stanford .	最終 , 這是我們骨髓移植者的照片 , 每年在史丹佛 , 她們會聚會 。
hopefully this technology will let us have more of these survivors in the future .	希望這項技術能讓我們在未來有更多這些倖存者 。
physicist and surfer garrett lisi presents a controversial new model of the universe that just maybe answers all the big questions . if nothing else , it's the most beautiful 8dimensional model of elementary particles and forces you've ever seen .	物理學家和弗雷特•蓋瑞特•萊西提出了一個有爭議性的宇宙模型 , 可能可以回答所有大問題 。 如果沒有其他東西 , 它是你所見過最美麗的8d立體粒子和力量的模型 。
physics , science , technology	物理、科學、科技、技術、物理、物理、科學、科學、科技 。
garrett lisi on his theory of everything	garretlitlisi理論上所有事物的理論
whoa , dude . check out those killer equations . sweet .	哇 , 老兄 。 看看那些殺手方程式 , 甜蜜 。
actually , for the next 18 minutes i'm going to do the best i can to describe the beauty of particle physics without equations .	事實上 , 在接下來的18分鐘 , 我要盡我所能去描述粒子物理的美麗 , 沒有方程式 。
it turns out there's a lot we can learn from coral .	結果發現 , 我們能從珊瑚身上學到很多東西 。
coral is a very beautiful and unusual animal .	珊瑚是非常美麗且不尋常的動物 。
each coral head consists of thousand of individual polyps .	每一個珊瑚都有上千個珊瑚蟲 。
these polyps are continually budding and branching into genetically identical neighbors .	這些聚合物不斷地分裂成基因相同的鄰居 。
if we imagine this to be a hyperintelligent coral , we can single out an individual and ask him a reasonable question .	如果我們想像這是一個超級智慧的珊瑚 , 我們可以一個人 , 然後問他一個合理的問題 。
we can ask how exactly he got to be in this particular location compared to his neighbors if it was just chance , or destiny , or what ?	我們可以問他在這個特定的地點 , 與他的鄰居相比 , 如果只是機會 , 或命運 , 或什麼 ?
now , after admonishing us for turning the temperature up too high , he would tell us that our question was completely stupid .	在我們把溫度調高過後 , 他會告訴我們 , 我們的問題是完全愚蠢的 。
these corals can be quite kind of mean , you see , and i have surfing scars to prove that .	這些珊瑚可能是很有意義的 , 你看 , 我有衝浪來證明這一點 。
but this polyp would continue and tell us that his neighbors were quite clearly identical copies of him .	但這個聚合劑會繼續告訴我們 , 他的鄰居是非常相似的複製品 。
that he was in all these other locations as well , but experiencing them as separate individuals .	他也在所有其他的地點 , 但經驗卻是不同的個體 。
for a coral , branching into different copies is the most natural thing in the world .	對珊瑚而言 , 分成不同的複製品是世界上最自然的東西 。
unlike us , a hyperintelligent coral would be uniquely prepared to understand quantum mechanics .	不像我們 , 超級智慧的珊瑚 , 會特別準備去了解量子力學 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics very accurately describes how our universe works .	量子力學的數學非常精確地描述我們的宇宙是如何運作的 。
and it tells us our reality is continually branching into different possibilities , just like a coral .	它告訴我們 , 我們的現實不斷地分裂成不同的可能性 , 就像珊瑚一樣 。
it's a weird thing for us humans to wrap our minds around , since we only ever get to experience one possibility .	這對我們人類來說是一件很奇怪的事 , 因為我們只能體驗一個可能性 。
this quantum weirdness was first described by erwin schrödinger and his cat .	這種量子奇怪最初是由薛丁格和他的貓所描述的 。
the cat likes this version better .	貓更喜歡這個版本 。
in this setup , schrödinger is in a box with a radioactive sample that , by the laws of quantum mechanics , branches into a state in which it is radiated and a state in which it is not .	在這個設置中 , 薛丁格在一個放射性樣本中 , 由量子力學的定律 , 分成一個放射性狀態 , 而不是放射性狀態 。
in the branch in which the sample radiates , it sets off a trigger that releases poison and schrödinger is dead .	在樣本中 , 樣本會放射 , 它會引發一種觸發 , 釋放毒藥和薛丁格會死 。
but in the other branch of reality , he remains alive .	但在現實中 , 他仍然活著 。
these realities are experienced separately by each individual .	每個人都有不同的經驗 。
as far as either can tell , the other one doesn't exist .	無論如何 , 另一個都不存在 。
this seems weird to us , because each of us only experiences an individual existence , and we don't get to see other branches .	這對我們來說是很怪的 , 因為我們每個人都只體驗到個人存在 , 我們也看不到其他分支 。
it's as if each of us , like schrödinger here , are a kind of coral branching into different possibilities .	彷彿我們每一個人 , 像這裡的薛丁格 , 有點像是珊瑚分裂成不同的可能性 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics tells us this is how the world works at tiny scales .	量子力學的數學告訴我們這個世界是怎麼運作的
it can be summed up in a single sentence: everything that can happen , does .	它可以用一個句子來總結:所有可能發生的事 , 都可以 。
but this does not mean everything happens .	但這並不意味著一切都發生了 。
the rest of physics is about describing what can happen and what can't .	其餘的物理則是描述可能發生什麼事 , 以及什麼不能 。
what physics tells us is that everything comes down to geometry and the interactions of elementary particles .	物理學告訴我們 , 一切都歸功於幾何學 , 以及基本粒子的互動 。
and things can happen only if these interactions are perfectly balanced .	只有這些互動是完全平衡的 。
now i'll go ahead and describe how we know about these particles , what they are and how this balance works .	現在我要描述我們對這些粒子的了解 , 它們是什麼 , 以及平衡如何運作 。
in this machine , a beam of protons and antiprotons are accelerated to near the speed of light and brought together in a collision , producing a burst of pure energy .	在這台機器中 , 一道質子和反質子的束縛會加速到接近光速 , 並聚集在一起 , 產生出一股純能量 。
this energy is immediately converted into a spray of subatomic particles , with detectors and computers used to figure out their properties .	這種能量馬上被轉換成亞原子粒子 , 用探測器和電腦來找出它們的特性 。
this enormous machine the large hadron collider at cern in geneva has a circumference of 17 miles and , when it's operating , draws five times as much power as the city of monterey .	這台巨大的機器──在日內瓦的大型強子對撞機有17英哩的圓圈 , 當它在運作時 , 比蒙特利市的電力高出五倍 。
we can't predict specifically what particles will be produced in any individual collision .	我們無法精確地預測任何個體碰撞中產生的粒子 。
quantum mechanics tells us all possibilities are realized .	量子力學告訴我們所有可能性都被實現 。
but physics does tell us what particles can be produced .	但物理告訴我們哪些粒子可以產生 。
these particles must have just as much mass and energy as is carried in by the proton and antiproton .	這些粒子的質子和能量必須和質子和反質子相同 。
any particles more massive than this energy limit aren't produced , and remain invisible to us .	任何粒子的質量都比這個能量限度更大 , 對我們來說仍然是隱形的 。
this is why this new particle accelerator is so exciting .	這就是為什麼這個新粒子加速器這麼令人興奮 。
it's going to push this energy limit seven times beyond what's ever been done before , so we're going to get to see some new particles very soon .	它將超越前所未有的能量限制七倍 , 所以我們很快就會看到一些新粒子 。
but before talking about what we might see , let me describe the particles we already know of .	但在談我們可能看到什麼之前 , 讓我來描述我們已經知道的粒子 。
there's a whole zoo of subatomic particles .	有一大堆亞原子粒子 。
most of us are familiar with electrons .	我們大部分人都熟悉電子 。
a lot of people in this room make a good living pushing them around .	在這個房間裡的很多人都做得很好 , 把他們推過來 。
but the electron also has a neutral partner called the neutrino , with no electric charge and a very tiny mass .	但電子也有一個中立的夥伴 , 叫做中子 , 沒有電荷 , 和非常小的質量 。
in contrast , the upanddown quarks have very large masses , and combine in threes to make the protons and neutrons inside atoms .	相對的 , 上方的夸克有很大的質量 , 三的結合 , 使質子和中子在原子中形成 。
all of these matter particles come in left and righthanded varieties , and have antiparticle partners that carry opposite charges .	所有這些物質粒子都出現在左右和右邊的品種中 , 有抗粒子伴侶攜帶著相反的載荷 。
these familiar particles also have less familiar second and third generations , which have the same charges as the first but have much higher masses .	這些熟悉的粒子也比較不熟悉第二代和第三代 , 相同的載荷和第一代相同 , 但有更高的質量 。
these matter particles all interact with the various force particles .	這些物質粒子都和不同力量粒子互動 。
the electromagnetic force interacts with electrically charged matter via particles called photons .	電磁力透過光子的粒子 , 與電荷相互作用 。
there is also a very weak force called , rather unimaginatively , the weak force , that interacts only with lefthanded matter .	還有一種很弱的力量 , 叫做 , 相當不想像 , 較弱的力量 , 只與左撇子物質相互作用 。
the strong force acts between quarks which carry a different kind of charge , called color charge , and come in three different varieties: red , green and blue .	夸克之間的強力作用 , 帶有不同的載荷 , 叫做顏色載荷 , 以三種不同品種:紅、綠、藍 。
you can blame murray gellmann for these names they're his fault .	你可以怪罪murraygellmann--他們是他的錯 。
finally , there's the force of gravity , which interacts with matter via its mass and spin .	最後 , 引力的作用 , 透過質量和旋轉來與物質產生作用 。
the most important thing to understand here is that there's a different kind of charge associated with each of these forces .	最重要的是 , 每種力都有不同的載荷 。
these four different forces interact with matter according to the corresponding charges that each particle has .	這四種不同的力與物質相互作用 , 根據每個粒子所擁有的對應載荷 。
a particle that hasn't been seen yet , but we're pretty sure exists , is the higgs particle , which gives masses to all these other particles .	一個尚未被看見的粒子 , 但我們很確定存在 , 就是希格斯粒子 , 它會給予所有其他粒子的質量 。
the main purpose of the large hadron collider is to see this higgs particle , and we're almost certain it will .	大型強子對撞機的主要目的是看到希格斯粒子 , 我們幾乎確定它會 。
but the greatest mystery is what else we might see .	但最偉大的奧秘是我們還能看到的 。
and i'm going to show you one beautiful possibility towards the end of this talk .	我將向你們展示一個美麗的可能性 , 來結束這場演說 。
now , if we count up all these different particles using their various spins and charges , there are 226 .	如果我們用不同的旋轉和載荷來算出這些不同的粒子 , 會有226個粒子 。
that's a lot of particles to keep track of .	這是很多粒子用來追蹤的 。
and it seems strange that nature would have so many elementary particles .	大自然會有這麼多基本粒子 。
but if we plot them out according to their charges , some beautiful patterns emerge .	但如果我們根據他們的指控來繪製它們 , 有些美麗的圖案會浮現 。
the most familiar charge is electric charge .	最熟悉的載荷是電荷 。
electrons have an electric charge , a negative one , and quarks have electric charges in thirds .	電子有電荷 , 負電荷 , 夸克三分之一有電荷 。
so when two up quarks and a down quark are combined to make a proton , it has a total electric charge of plus one .	所以當兩個夸克和一個下夸克結合成質子時 , 它就有一連串的電荷 。
these particles also have antiparticles , which have opposite charges .	這些粒子也有反粒子 , 有相反的載荷 。
now , it turns out the electric charge is actually a combination of two other charges: hypercharge and weak charge .	結果發現 , 電荷實際上是另外兩個載荷的組合:超電荷和弱電荷 。
if we spread out the hypercharge and weak charge and plot the charges of particles in this twodimensional charge space , the electric charge is where these particles sit along the vertical direction .	如果我們把超荷和弱荷分開來 , 在這二維載荷空間中 , 電荷是這些粒子位置沿著垂直方向的位置 。
the electromagnetic and weak forces interact with matter according to their hypercharge and weak charge , which make this pattern .	電磁力和弱力會根據超荷和弱荷與物質相互作用 , 產生這種模式 。
this is called the unified electroweak model , and it was put together back in 1967 .	這就是所謂的 「 聯合電路 」 模型 , 它在1967年被放回來 。
the reason most of us are only familiar with electric charge and not both of these is because of the higgs particle .	我們大多數人只熟悉電荷 , 而不是兩者都是因為希格斯粒子 。
the higgs , over here on the left , has a large mass and breaks the symmetry of this electroweak pattern .	左邊的希格斯有大量的質量 , 打破了這個斜率模式的對稱性 。
it makes the weak force very weak by giving the weak particles a large mass .	它使弱力變得非常弱 , 使得弱粒子變弱 , 大量質量 。
since this massive higgs sits along the horizontal direction in this diagram , the photons of electromagnetism remain massless and interact with electric charge along the vertical direction in this charge space .	由於這個巨大的希格斯坐落在這個圖表中的水平方向 , 電磁力的光子仍然沒有質量 , 與電荷垂直方向的電荷相互作用 。
so the electromagnetic and weak forces are described by this pattern of particle charges in twodimensional space .	所以電磁力和弱力被二維空間中的粒子載荷所描述 。
we can include the strong force by spreading out its two charge directions and plotting the charges of the force particles in quarks along these directions .	我們可以將強力推向它的兩個載荷方向 , 並在這些方向繪製出夸克力粒子的載荷 。
the charges of all known particles can be plotted in a fourdimensional charge space , and projected down to two dimensions like this so we can see them .	所有已知粒子的載荷可以在四維空間中定位 , 投射到像這樣的二維空間 , 這樣我們就能看見它們 。
whenever particles interact , nature keeps things in a perfect balance along all four of these charge directions .	每當粒子相互作用 , 自然就會讓物體保持完美的平衡 , 沿著這四個載荷方向 。
if a particle and an antiparticle collide , it creates a burst of energy and a total charge of zero in all four charge directions .	如果一顆粒子和反粒子碰撞 , 它會產生一股能量 , 以及四個載荷方向的總載荷 。
at this point , anything can be created as long as it has the same energy and maintains a total charge of zero .	此時此刻 , 任何東西都可以產生 , 只要它擁有相同的能量 , 且能維持完全的載荷 。
for example , this weak force particle and its antiparticle can be created in a collision .	例如 , 這種弱力粒子和它的反粒子可以在碰撞中產生 。
in further interactions , the charges must always balance .	在進一步的互動中 , 指控必須保持平衡 。
one of the weak particles could decay into an electron and an antineutrino , and these three still add to zero total charge .	其中一個微弱的粒子可能會衰退成一個電子和一個中子 , 這三個粒子仍然是零的載荷 。
nature always keeps a perfect balance .	大自然總是保持完美的平衡 。
so these patterns of charges are not just pretty .	所以這些載荷的模式並不只是很漂亮 。
they tell us what interactions are allowed to happen .	他們告訴我們哪些互動是可以發生的 。
and we can rotate this charge space in four dimensions to get a better look at the strong interaction , which has this nice hexagonal symmetry .	我們可以在四維空間中旋轉這個載荷空間 , 來更好地觀察強相互作用 , 它有很棒的六角形對稱性 。
in a strong interaction , a strong force particle , such as this one , interacts with a colored quark , such as this green one , to give a quark with a different color charge this red one .	在強烈的交互作用中 , 強力粒子 , 比如這個 , 和有色的夸克交互作用 , 比如這個綠色的夸克 , 給夸克一個不同的顏色載荷這個紅色的夸克 。
and strong interactions are happening millions of times each second in every atom of our bodies , holding the atomic nuclei together .	強烈的交互作用每秒發生數百萬次在我們身體的每個原子中 , 將原子核結合在一起 。
but these four charges corresponding to three forces are not the end of the story .	但這四個載荷對應三種力並不是故事的結局 。
we can also include two more charges corresponding to the gravitational force .	我們也可以再加上兩個載荷與重力相對應 。
when we include these , each matter particle has two different spin charges , spinup and spindown .	當我們把它們包起來 , 每個粒子都有兩個不同的旋轉載荷 , 旋轉和旋轉 。
so they all split , and give a nice pattern in sixdimensional charge space .	所以它們全部都分開 , 在六度載荷空間中給一個很好的圖案 。
we can rotate this pattern in six dimensions , and see that it's quite pretty .	我們可以在六度空間中旋轉這個模式 , 看到它很漂亮 。
right now , this pattern matches our best current knowledge of how nature is built at the tiny scales of these elementary particles .	此時此刻 , 這種模式符合了我們目前對於大自然如何在這些基本粒子所建立的最佳知識 。
this is what we know for certain .	這就是我們所知道的 。
some of these particles are at the very limit of what we've been able to reach with experiments .	有些粒子是極限的 , 是我們能在實驗中找到的 。
from this pattern , we already know the particle physics of these tiny scales . the way the universe works with these tiny scales is very beautiful .	從這個模式中 , 我們已經知道這些微小尺度的粒子物理 。 宇宙的運作方式非常美麗 。
but now i'm going to discuss some new and old ideas about things we don't know yet .	但現在我要談談一些關於我們尚未知的新古老想法 。
we want to expand this pattern using mathematics alone , and see if we can get our hands on the whole enchilada .	我們想要用數學來拓展這個模式 , 看看我們能不能把手伸到全芝加拉達上 。
we want to find all the particles and forces that make a complete picture of our universe .	我們想要找到所有組成宇宙的粒子和力量 。
and we want to use this picture to predict new particles that we'll see when experiments reach higher energies .	我們想用這張照片來預測新的粒子 , 讓實驗達到更高的能量 。
so there's an old idea in particle physics that this known pattern of charges , which is not very symmetric , could emerge from a more perfect pattern that gets broken similar to how the higgs particle breaks the electroweak pattern to give electromagnetism .	在粒子物理學中有一個古老的想法 , 這種已知的載荷模式 , 不對稱 , 可以從一個更完美的模式中產生 , 和希格斯粒子如何突破電磁化的模式 , 來產生電磁性 。
in order to do this , we need to introduce new forces with new charge directions .	為了做到這一點 , 我們需要引進新的力量 , 引進新的載荷方向 。
when we introduce a new direction , we get to guess what charges the particles have along this direction , and then we can rotate it in with the others .	當我們介紹一個新的方向時 , 我們會猜測粒子在這個方向上有哪些載荷 , 然後我們可以把它轉向另一個方向 。
if we guess wisely , we can construct the standard charges in six charge dimensions as a broken symmetry of this more perfect pattern in seven charge dimensions .	假如我們明智地猜測 , 我們可以建立標準載荷 , 以六度載荷的形式 , 來作為這更完美的七度載荷空間的對稱性 。
this particular choice corresponds to a grand unified theory introduced by pati and salam in 1973 .	在1973年 , 帕蒂和薩姆在1973年引入了一項大型統一理論 。
when we look at this new unified pattern , we can see a couple of gaps where particles seem to be missing .	當我們看這個新的統一模式時 , 我們可以看到一些差異 , 粒子看起來似乎缺少了 。
this is the way theories of unification work .	這就是統一理論的運作方式 。
a physicist looks for larger , more symmetric patterns that include the established pattern as a subset .	物理學家尋找更大、更對稱的模式 , 包含以子組成的模式 。
the larger pattern allows us to predict the existence of particles that have never been seen .	更大的模式讓我們能夠預測那些從未被看見的粒子存在 。
this unification model predicts the existence of these two new force particles , which should act a lot like the weak force , only weaker .	這個統一模型預測了這兩種新的力量粒子的存在 , 該作用很像弱力 , 只是弱力 。
now we can rotate this set of charges in seven dimensions and consider an odd fact about the matter particles: the second and third generations of matter have exactly the same charges in sixdimensional charge space as the first generation .	現在我們可以在七維空間中旋轉這組載荷 , 並考慮一個關於物質粒子的奇怪事實:第二代和第三代物質在六維載荷空間中有完全相同的載荷空間 。
these particles are not uniquely identified by their six charges .	這些粒子並非獨一無二的被六個載荷辨識出來 。
they sit on top of one another in the standard charge space .	他們坐在標準載荷空間的頂端 。
however , if we work in eightdimensional charge space , then we can assign unique new charges to each particle .	然而 , 如果我們在八度載荷空間中工作 , 那麼我們就可以把獨特的載荷給每個粒子 。
then we can spin these in eight dimensions , and see what the whole pattern looks like .	然後我們可以在八度空間中旋轉 , 看看整體的圖案是什麼樣子 。
here we can see the second and third generations of matter now related to the first generation by a symmetry called " triality . "	在這裡 , 我們可以看到第二代、第三代物質 , 與第一代相關 , 是由所謂的 「 審判 」 的對稱性 。
this particular pattern of charges in eight dimensions is actually part of the most beautiful geometric structure in mathematics .	這種八度空間的載荷模式其實是數學中最美麗的幾何結構之一 。
it's a pattern of the largest exceptional lie group , e8 .	這是最大的例外謊言集團e8 。
this lie group is a smooth , curved shape with 248 dimensions .	這個謊言團體是平滑的曲線形狀 , 有248個維度 。
each point in this pattern corresponds to a symmetry of this very complex and beautiful shape .	每一個點都與這個非常複雜且美麗的形狀相對應 。
one small part of this e8 shape can be used to describe the curved spacetime of einstein's general relativity , explaining gravity .	這個e8形狀的一小部分可以用來描述愛因斯坦廣義相對論的曲線時期 , 解釋重力 。
together with quantum mechanics , the geometry of this shape could describe everything about how the universe works at the tiniest scales .	與量子力學結合 , 這個形狀的幾何形狀可以描述宇宙在最小的尺度運作的一切 。
the pattern of this shape living in eightdimensional charge space is exquisitely beautiful , and it summarizes thousands of possible interactions between these elementary particles , each of which is just a facet of this complicated shape .	這種形狀的模式是活在八度載荷空間中 , 非常美麗 , 它總結成千上萬個可能的粒子間的互動 , 每一個都只是這種複雜形狀的表面 。
as we spin it , we can see many of the other intricate patterns contained in this one .	隨著我們旋轉 , 我們可以看到其中許多複雜的圖案 。
and with a particular rotation , we can look down through this pattern in eight dimensions along a symmetry axis and see all the particles at once .	有了特定的旋轉 , 我們就能在八度空間中觀察這個模式 , 同時看到所有粒子 。
it's a very beautiful object , and as with any unification , we can see some holes where new particles are required by this pattern .	它是一個非常美麗的物體 , 如同任何一個單一物件 , 我們可以看到一些新粒子被這個圖案所需要的孔洞 。
there are 20 gaps where new particles should be , two of which have been filled by the patisalam particles .	那裡有20個空隙 , 新粒子應該有二個被巴黎粒子填滿 。
from their location in this pattern , we know that these new particles should be scalar fields like the higgs particle , but have color charge and interact with the strong force .	從它們的位置來看 , 我們知道這些新粒子應該是像希格斯粒子那樣的尺寸 , 但它們有色荷 , 和強力相互作用 。
filling in these new particles completes this pattern , giving us the full e8 .	填入這些新粒子 , 完成了這個模式 , 給我們全e8 。
this e8 pattern has very deep mathematical roots .	這個e8圖案有非常深的數學根 。
it's considered by many to be the most beautiful structure in mathematics .	它被許多人認為是數學中最美麗的結構 。
it's a fantastic prospect that this object of great mathematical beauty could describe the truth of particle interactions at the smallest scales imaginable .	這個偉大數學美麗的物體能夠描述粒子相互作用的真相 , 以最小規模的想像力描述 。
and this idea that nature is described by mathematics is not at all new .	大自然被數學所描述的這個想法完全不是新的想法 。
in 1623 , galileo wrote this: " nature's grand book , which stands continually open to our gaze , is written in the language of mathematics .	在1623年 , 伽利略寫了這句話: 「 大自然的偉大書 , 不斷地對我們的目光開放 , 以數學的語言寫 。
its characters are triangles , circles and other geometrical figures , without which it is humanly impossible to understand a single word of it ; without these , one is wandering around in a dark labyrinth . "	它的角色是三角形 , 圓形和其他幾何形狀 , 沒有這些形狀是人類無法理解的 ; 沒有這些 , 一個在黑暗的迷宮中漫遊 。 」
i believe this to be true , and i've tried to follow galileo's guidance in describing the mathematics of particle physics using only triangles , circles and other geometrical figures .	我相信這是真的 , 我試著追蹤伽利略的指導 , 用三角形、圓形和其他幾何形狀來描述粒子物理的數學 。
of course , when other physicists and i actually work on this stuff , the mathematics can resemble a dark labyrinth .	當然 , 當其他物理學家和我研究這個東西時 , 數學可以和黑暗迷宮相似 。
but it's reassuring that at the heart of this mathematics is pure , beautiful geometry .	但這張數學的核心是純粹、美麗的幾何圖形 。
joined with quantum mechanics , this mathematics describes our universe as a growing e8 coral , with particles interacting at every location in all possible ways according to a beautiful pattern .	與量子力學結合 , 這個數學將我們的宇宙描述為一個生長的e8珊瑚 , 粒子在所有可能的位置相互作用 , 根據一個美麗的模式 。
and as more of the pattern comes into view using new machines like the large hadron collider , we may be able to see whether nature uses this e8 pattern or a different one .	隨著越來越多的圖案使用像大型強子對撞機的新機器 , 我們也許能看到大自然是否使用這個e8圖案或另一個圖案 。
this process of discovery is a wonderful adventure to be involved in .	這個發現的過程是一場很棒的冒險旅程 。
if the lhc finds particles that fit this e8 pattern , that will be very , very cool .	如果lhc找到符合e8圖案的粒子 , 那會非常酷 。
if the lhc finds new particles , but they don't fit this pattern well , that will be very interesting , but bad for this e8 theory .	如果lhc找到新的粒子 , 但它們不符合這個模式 , 那會很有趣 , 但對這個e8理論不好 。
and , of course , bad for me personally .	當然 , 對我個人來說不好 。
now how bad would that be ?	那有多糟 ?
well , pretty bad .	嗯 , 差不多 。
but predicting how nature works is a very risky game .	但預測大自然如何運作是非常危險的遊戲 。
this theory and others like it are long shots .	這種理論和其他類似的理論是很長的 。
one does a lot of hard work knowing that most of these ideas probably won't end up being true about nature .	一個人做了很多辛苦的工作 , 知道這些想法可能最終不會實現大自然 。
that's what doing theoretical physics is like: there are a lot of wipeouts .	這就是理論物理學的樣子:有很多野生動物 。
in this regard , new physics theories are a lot like startup companies .	在這方面 , 新的物理理論很像新創公司 。
as with any large investment , it can be emotionally difficult to abandon a line of research when it isn't working out .	和任何大型投資一樣 , 要放棄一行不通的研究方式 , 情緒上是很困難的 。
but in science , if something isn't working , you have to toss it out and try something else .	但在科學中 , 如果事情不成功 , 你得要把它弄出來 , 嘗試其他東西 。
now , the only way to maintain sanity and achieve happiness in the midst of this uncertainty is to keep balance and perspective in life .	要保持清潔和幸福的唯一方法 , 就是保持生活的平衡和觀點 。
i've tried the best i can to live a balanced life .	我盡我所能地過著平衡的生活 。
i try to balance my life equally between physics , love and surfing my own three charge directions .	我試著平衡我的生活 , 物理、愛和衝浪我自己的三項載荷方向 。
this way , even if the physics i work on comes to nothing , i still know i've lived a good life .	這樣一來 , 即使我研究的物理成分都沒有 , 我仍然知道我過得很好 。
and i try to live in beautiful places .	我試著生活在美麗的地方 。
for most of the past ten years i've lived on the island of maui , a very beautiful place .	過去十年 , 我住在毛伊島 , 一個非常美麗的地方 。
now it's one of the greatest mysteries in the universe to my parents how i managed to survive all that time without engaging in anything resembling fulltime employment .	現在 , 這是我父母最大的謎團之一 , 我如何能在沒有全職工作的情況下生存下來 , 生存下來 。
i'm going to let you in on that secret .	我要告訴你們這個秘密 。
this was a view from my home office on maui .	這是我在毛伊家辦公室的景象 。
and you may have noticed that these beautiful views are similar , but in slightly different places .	你可能已經注意到這些美麗的觀點是相似的 , 但在稍微不同的地方 。
that's because this used to be my home and office on maui .	那是因為這曾經是我在毛伊的家和辦公室 。
i've chosen a very unusual life .	我選擇了一個非常不尋常的人生 。
but not worrying about rent allowed me to spend my time doing what i love .	但不用擔心租金讓我花時間做我愛的事 。
living a nomadic existence has been hard at times , but it's allowed me to live in beautiful places and keep a balance in my life that i've been happy with .	有時 , 過著遊牧的存在很艱難 , 但它讓我能住在美麗的地方 , 在我的生活中保持平衡 。
it allows me to spend a lot of my time hanging out with hyperintelligent coral .	它讓我能花很多時間和超級智慧珊瑚在一起 。
but i also greatly enjoy the company of hyperintelligent people .	但我也很享受超級聰明的人的公司 。
so i'm very happy to have been invited here to ted .	我很高興被邀請來到ted 。
chris anderson: i probably understood two percent of that , but i still absolutely loved it . so i'm going to sound dumb .	克里斯•安德森:我大概了解了百分之二 , 但我還是很喜歡 。 所以我要聽起來很蠢 。
your theory of everything garrett lisi: i'm used to coral .	你的所有東西的理論:我習慣珊瑚 。
ca: that's right . the reason it's got a few people at least excited is because , if you're right , it brings gravity and quantum theory together .	克里斯:沒錯 。 原因有少數人感到興奮 , 因為 , 如果你是對的 , 它會把重力和量子理論結合在一起 。
so are you saying that we should think of the universe , at its heart that the smallest things that there are , are somehow an e8 object of possibility ?	所以 , 你說我們應該想一下宇宙 , 心臟裡最小的東西 , 可能是e8的可能性嗎 ?
i mean , is there a scale to it , at the smallest scale , or . . . ?	我的意思是 , 在最小的尺度 , 還是......
gl: well , right now the pattern i showed you that corresponds to what we know about elementary particle physics that already corresponds to a very beautiful shape .	格林:現在我給你們看的圖案 , 與我們所知的基本粒子物理學有關 , 已經對應到一個非常美麗的形狀 。
and that's the one that i said we knew for certain .	這就是我所說的我們肯定知道的 。
and that shape has remarkable similarities and the way it fits into this e8 pattern could be the rest of the picture .	這種形狀有著驚人的相似性 , 和它如何融入e8模式 , 可能是圖片的其他部分 。
and these patterns of points that i've shown for you actually represent symmetries of this highdimensional object that would be warping and moving and dancing over the space time that we experience .	我給你們看的這些點的圖案 , 實際上代表著這個高維度物體的對稱性 , 會在我們體驗的時空中扭曲、移動、跳舞 。
and that would be what explains all these elementary particles that we see .	這就解釋了我們所看到的這些基本粒子 。
ca: but a string theorist , as i understand it , explains electrons in terms of much smaller strings vibrating i know you don't like string theory vibrating inside it .	克:但弦理論家 , 如我所知 , 用較小的弦震動來解釋電子 , 我知道你不喜歡弦理論在裡面震動 。
how should we think of an electron in relation to e8 ?	我們該如何把電子和e8有關 ?
gl: no , it would be one of the symmetries of this e8 shape .	諾曼:不 , 這會是e8形狀的對稱性 。
so what's happening is , as the shape is moving over spacetime , it's twisting . and the direction it's twisting as it moves is what particle we see . so it would be ca: the size of the e8 shape , how does that relate to the electron ?	所以 , 隨著形狀在時空移動 , 它在扭轉 。 當它移動時 , 它的方向是粒子的形狀 。 克里斯:e8形狀的大小 , 和電子有什麼關係 ?
i kind of feel like i need that for my picture .	我覺得我需要這張照片 。
is it bigger ? is it smaller ?	它比較大嗎 ? 比較小嗎 ?
gl: well , as far as we know electrons are point particles , so this would be going down to the smallest possible scales .	諾曼:嗯 , 據我們所知 , 電子是指點粒子 , 所以這會降到最小的尺度 。
so the way these things are explained in quantum field theory is , all possibilities are expanding and developing at once .	所以 , 在量子場理論中 , 這些東西是可以同時擴展和發展的 。
and this is why i use the analogy to coral .	這就是為什麼我用珊瑚的比喻 。
and in this way , the way that e8 comes in is it will be as a shape that's attached at each point in spacetime .	如此一來 , e8進來的形狀就是每一次都附著在時空的形狀 。
and , as i said , the way the shape twists the directional along which way the shape is twisting as it moves over this curved surface is what the elementary particles are , themselves .	正如我所說的 , 形狀的扭曲了方向 , 形狀在移動時扭曲了曲面 , 就是基本粒子本身 。
so through quantum field theory , they manifest themselves as points and interact that way .	透過量子場理論 , 他們表現出自己是指點 , 並以這種方式互動 。
i don't know if i'll be able to make this any clearer .	我不知道我能否更清楚一點 。
ca: it doesn't really matter .	克:這並不重要 。
it's evoking a kind of sense of wonder , and i certainly want to understand more of this .	它喚起了一種奇妙的感覺 , 我肯定想了解更多 。
but thank you so much for coming . that was absolutely fascinating .	非常謝謝你們來了 。 這真的很吸引人 。
the legendary chimpanzee researcher jane goodall talks about tacare and her other community projects , which help people in booming african towns live sidebyside with threatened animals .	傳奇的黑猩猩研究員珍.古拉爾談到塔瑞和她的其他社區計畫 , 協助在波動的非洲小鎮居住 , 和威脅動物的威脅 。
africa , animals , biodiversity , environment , global issues , pollution , primates , science	非洲、動物、生物多樣性、環境、全球議題、污染、靈長類、科學、科學等 。
jane goodall helps humans and animals live together	珍•古拉爾幫助人類和動物一起生活在一起 ,
good afternoon , good evening , whatever .	午安 , 晚安 , 等等 。
we can go , jambo , guten abend , bonsoir , but we can also ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh .	我們能去 , 賈莫 , 吉姆.阿伯丁 , 波諾 , 但我們也可以 , 喔 , 喔 , 喔 , 喔 , 喔 , 喔 , 喔 , 喔 , 喔 , 喔 , 喔 , 喔 , 喔 , 喔 , 哦 。
that is the call that chimpanzees make before they go to sleep in the evening .	這就是黑猩猩在晚上睡覺之前所接到的電話 。
you hear it going from one side of the valley to the other , from one group of nests to the next .	你聽到它從山谷的一邊傳到另一邊 , 從一群的巢穴傳到下一邊 。
and i want to pick up with my talk this evening from where zeray left off yesterday .	今天晚上 , 我想要帶著我的演說 , 從昨天zeray離開的地方 。
he was talking about this amazing , threeyearold australopithecine child , selam .	他在談的是這個奇妙的三歲大的澳大利亞小孩 , selam 。
and we've also been hearing about the history , the family tree , of mankind through dna genetic profiling .	我們也聽過人類的歷史、家譜、人類透過基因檔案來獲取 。
and it was a paleontologist , the late louis leakey , who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees .	這是一位古生物學家 , 已故路易斯•萊基 , 他讓我踏上了研究黑猩猩的路 。
and it was pretty extraordinary , way back then .	當時是非常不凡的 。
it's kind of commonplace now , but his argument was because he'd been searching for the fossilized remains of early humans in africa .	現在有點常見 , 但他的論點是 , 因為他一直在尋找非洲早期人類的化石 。
and you can tell an awful lot about what those beings looked like from the fossils , from the shape of the muscle attachments , something about the way they lived from the various artifacts found with them .	從化石的形狀 , 你可以分辨出很多的生物 , 從肌肉依附的形狀 , 從不同文物中 , 牠們是怎麼生活的 。
but what about how they behaved ? that's what he wanted to know .	但他們的行為如何呢 ? 這是他想要知道的 。
and of course , behavior doesn't fossilize .	當然 , 行為並沒有化石 。
he argued and it's now a fairly common theory that if we found behavior patterns similar or the same in our closest living relatives , the great apes , and humans today , then maybe those behaviors were present in the apelike , humanlike ancestor some seven million years ago .	他主張 , 現在是一個相當常見的理論 , 如果我們在最接近的生物親戚身上找到行為模式 , 或類似的行為模式 , 如今人類 , 也許這些行為在大約七百萬年前就出現了 , 人類的祖先 。
and therefore , perhaps we had brought those characteristics with us from that ancient , ancient past .	因此 , 也許我們把這些特徵從古代、古代的過去帶給了我們 。
well , if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution , you very often find people speculating about how early humans may have behaved , based on the behavior of chimpanzees .	嗯 , 如果你現在在教科書上看到處理人類演化的過程 , 你常常會發現人們在推測早期人類的行為 , 基於黑猩猩的行為 。
they are more like us than any other living creature , and we've heard about that during this ted conference .	牠們比其他生物更像我們 , 在ted的會議中 , 我們聽說過這件事 。
so it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzees are so like us , in certain aspects of their behavior .	所以 , 我一直在評論黑猩猩在某些方面和我們很相似的行為方式 。
every chimpanzee has his or her own personality .	每隻黑猩猩都有牠或牠自己的個性 。
of course , i gave them names . they can live to be 60 years or more , although we think most of them probably don't make it to 60 in the wild .	當然 , 我給了他們名字 。 他們可以活到六十年以上 , 雖然我們認為大部分的人可能不會在野外60歲 。
mr . wurzel . the female has her first baby when she's 11 or 12 .	女生在11或12歲時 , 她的第一個寶寶 。
thereafter , she has one baby only every five or six years , a long period of childhood dependency when the child is nursing , sleeping with the mother at night , and riding on her back .	在那裡 , 她只有五、六年的嬰兒 , 一個長期的兒童依賴度 , 當孩子在晚上護理母親時 , 和她一起睡覺 , 背上騎著 。
and we believe that this long period of childhood is important for chimpanzees , just as it is for us , in relation to learning .	我們相信 , 長期的童年期對黑猩猩來說很重要 , 就如同對我們而言 , 與學習有關 。
as the brain becomes ever more complex during evolution in different forms of animals , so we find that learning plays an ever more important role in an individual's life history .	隨著大腦在不同形式的動物進化過程中變得更複雜 , 所以我們發現 , 學習在個人的生命史中扮演著更重要的角色 。
and young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do .	年輕的黑猩猩花了很多時間看他們的長輩怎麼做 。
we know now that they're capable of imitating behaviors that they see .	我們現在知道他們有能力模仿他們所看到的行為 。
and we believe that it's in this way that the different toolusing behaviors that have now been seen in all the different chimpanzee populations studied in africa how these are passed from one generation to the next , through observation , imitation and practice , so that we can describe these toolusing behaviors as primitive culture .	我們相信 , 這種方式 , 目前在非洲各個黑猩猩族群中 , 所看到的各種不同的工具行為 , 都在研究這些行為 , 如何從一個世代傳到下一個世代 , 透過觀察、模仿和實踐 , 這樣我們就能把這些工具行為描述成原始文化 。
chimpanzees don't have a spoken language . we've talked about that .	黑猩猩沒有口語 , 我們已經談過了 。
they do have a very rich repertoire of postures and gestures , many of which are similar , or even identical , to ours and formed in the same context . greeting chimpanzees embracing .	他們的確有非常豐富的姿勢和姿勢 , 當中許多都很類似 , 甚至相同 , 和我們在同一個情境下形成 。 打招呼黑猩猩擁抱 。
they also kiss , hold hands , pat one another on the back .	他們也親吻、握手、拍手 。
and they swagger and they throw rocks .	他們搖擺 , 扔石頭 。
in chimpanzee society , we find many , many examples of compassion , precursors to love and true altruism .	在黑猩猩社會中 , 我們發現許多關於同情心的例子 , 前導者要愛和真正利他主義 。
unfortunately , they , like us , have a dark side to their nature .	不幸的是 , 他們和我們一樣 , 對他們的本質有著黑暗的一面 。
they're capable of extreme brutality , even a kind of primitive war .	他們有能力極度殘酷 , 甚至是一種原始的戰爭 。
and these really aggressive behaviors , for the most part , are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group .	這些極具侵略性的行為 , 大部分是被指導對抗鄰近社群的個體 。
they are very territorially aggressive .	他們非常積極地激進 。
chimpanzees , i believe , more than any other living creature , have helped us to understand that , after all , there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom .	我相信 , 比起其他生物 , 黑猩猩已經幫助我們了解到 , 畢竟 , 人類和其他動物王國之間沒有尖銳的界線 。
it's a very blurry line , and it's getting more blurry all the time as we make even more observations .	這條線非常模糊 , 每當我們做更多觀察時 , 它就會變得越來越模糊 。
the study that i began in 1960 is still continuing to this day .	我從1960年開始的研究仍然持續到今日 。
and these chimpanzees , living their complex social lives in the wild , have helped more than anything else to make us realize we are part of , and not separated from , the amazing animals with whom we share the planet .	這些黑猩猩 , 在野外過著複雜的社交生活 , 協助了我們了解到我們是其中的一部分 , 而不是和我們共享地球的神奇動物分開來的 。
so it's pretty sad to find that chimpanzees , like so many other creatures around the world , are losing their habitats .	很遺憾 , 發現黑猩猩 , 就像世界上許多其他生物一樣 , 正在失去牠們的棲息地 。
this is just one photograph from the air , and it shows you the forested highlands of gombe .	這只是一張從空中拍攝的照片 , 它顯示了戈柏的森林高地 。
and it was when i flew over the whole area , about 16 years ago , and realized that outside the park , this forest , which in 1960 had stretched almost unbroken along the eastern shore of lake tanganyika , which is where the tiny , 30squaremile gombe national park lies , that a question came to my mind .	那時我在整個地區飛越 , 大約16年前 , 我發現 , 在公園之外 , 這片森林 , 在1960年時幾乎沒有破裂 , 沿著坦尚尼卡湖的東岸 , 也就是小小的三十平方英雄的羊公園 , 這個問題來了我的腦海 。
" how can we even try to save these famous chimpanzees , when the people living around the national park are struggling to survive ? "	「 我們要如何拯救這些知名的黑猩猩 , 當住在國家公園附近的人掙扎生存時 ? 」
more people are living there than the land could possibly support .	更多人住在那裏 , 比那塊土地能支援的還要多 。
the numbers increased by refugees pouring in from burundi and over the lake from congo .	難民從緬甸湧入的數字增加 , 和剛果湖邊的數量 。
and very poor people they couldn't afford to buy food from elsewhere .	非常貧窮的人負擔不起從別處購買食物 。
this led to a program , which we call tacare .	這導致了一個計畫 , 我們稱它為tacare 。
it's a very holistic way of improving the lives of the people living in the villages around the park .	這是一種非常全面的方式來改善人們生活在公園附近的村莊 。
it started small with 12 villages . it's now in 24 .	它從十二個村莊開始 , 現在已經24個了 。
there isn't time to go into it , but it's including things like tree nurseries , methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded , almost desertlike land up in these mountains .	沒有時間深入探究它 , 但它包括樹木護士 , 目前最適合耕種的方法 , 幾乎像沙漠一樣落在這些山上 。
ways of controlling , preventing soil erosion .	控制的方式 , 防止土壤侵蝕 。
ways of reclaiming overused farmland , so that within two years they can again be productive .	再利用過度使用的農地 , 這樣兩年內 , 農地就能再次有生產力 。
working to help the villagers obtain fresh water from wells .	協助村民從井裡取得淡水 。
perhaps build some schoolrooms .	也許建造一些學校 。
most important of all , i believe , is working with small groups of women , providing them with opportunities for microcredit loans .	最重要的是 , 我相信 , 與一小群女性合作 , 提供她們機會給微型貸款 。
and we've got , as is the case around the world , about 95 percent of all loans returned .	如同世界各地的案例 , 我們有95%的貸款回報 。
empowering women , working with education , providing scholarships for girls so they can finish secondary school , in the clear understanding that , all around the world , as women's education improves , family size drops .	賦權女性 , 與教育合作 , 為女孩們提供獎學金 , 讓他們能完成中學 , 清楚了解到 , 世界各地 , 身為女性的教育改善 , 家庭大小下降 。
we provide information about family planning and about hiv/aids .	我們提供關於家庭規劃和愛滋病的資訊 。
and as a result of this program , something's happening for conservation .	由於這個計畫 , 有些事正在進行保育 。
what's happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages , instead of looking on us as a bunch of white people coming to study a whole bunch of monkeys and by the way , many of the staff are now tanzanian but when we began the tacare program , it was a tanzanian team going into the villages .	保育的情況是 , 住在這24個村莊的農夫 , 與其把我們當成一群白人來研究一群猴子 , 順便一提 , 許多員工現在是坦尚尼亞人 , 但當我們開始了坦尚尼亞計劃時 , 是一個坦尚尼亞團隊進入村落 。
it was a tanzanian team talking to the villagers , asking what they were interested in .	那是一位坦尚尼亞團隊和村民談話 , 問他們對什麼感興趣 。
were they interested in conservation ? absolutely not .	他們對保育有興趣嗎 ? 絕對不是 。
they were interested in health ; they were interested in education .	他們對健康有興趣 , 他們對教育有興趣 。
and as time went on , and as their situation began to improve , they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation .	隨著時間過去 , 隨著情況開始改善 , 他們開始更了解保育的需求 。
they began to understand that as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees , so you've got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides .	他們開始了解 , 隨著山丘的上層是樹木 , 所以你有這種可怕的土壤侵蝕和泥塊 。
today , we are developing what we call the greater gombe ecosystem .	現今 , 我們正在發展所謂的 「 更大的羊生態系統 」 。
this is an area way outside the national park , stretching out into all these very degraded lands .	這是一個遠離國家公園的區域 , 延伸到這些非常退化的土地上 。
and as these villages have a better standard of life , they are actually agreeing to put between 10 percent and 20 percent of their land in the highlands aside , so that once again , as the trees grow back , the chimpanzees will have leafy corridors through which they can travel to interact as they must for genetic viability with other remnant groups outside the national park .	當這些村莊有更好的生活標準時 , 他們其實同意把百分之十到二十的高地放到一旁 , 這樣一來 , 當樹木長回來時 , 黑猩猩就會有葉面的走廊 , 可以在國家公園以外的遺傳村莊和其他殘留的遺傳團體互動 。
so tacare is a success .	所以 , 坦尚是成功的 。
we're replicating it in other parts of africa , around other wilderness areas which are faced with extreme population pressure .	我們在非洲其它地方複製它 , 在其他地方 , 面臨極端人口壓力的荒野區域 。
the problems in africa , however , as we've been discussing for the whole of these first couple of days of ted , are major problems .	然而 , 非洲的問題 , 正如我們在ted的前幾天所討論的 , 都是重大的問題 。
there is a great deal of poverty .	有很大的貧窮 。
and when you get large numbers of people living in land that is not that fertile , particularly when you cut down trees , and you leave the soil open to the wind for erosion , as desperate populations cut down more and more trees , so that they can try and grow food for themselves and their families , what's going to happen ? something's got to give .	當你收到大量住在土地上的人 , 那不是肥沃 , 尤其是當你砍掉樹木 , 你把土壤留在侵蝕的風上 , 因為絕望的人口減少了越來越多的樹木 , 所以他們可以試著為自己和家人種植食物 , 會發生什麼事 ?
and the other problems in not only africa , but the rest of the developing world and , indeed , everywhere what are we doing to our planet ?	其他問題不只在非洲 , 還在開發中國家的其他國家 , 不論在哪裡 , 我們在地球上做什麼 ?
you know , the famous scientist , e . o . wilson said that if every person on this planet attains the standard of living of the average european or american , we need three new planets .	你知道的 , 著名的科學家 , e.o.wilson說如果這個星球上每一個人都活在歐洲人或美國人的平均生活水準 , 我們需要三個新的行星 。
today , they are saying four . but we don't have them . we've got one .	現今 , 他們說的是四個 。 但我們沒有 。 我們只有一個 。
and what's happened ? i mean , the question here is , here we are , arguably the most intelligent being that's ever walked planet earth , with this extraordinary brain , capable of the kind of technology that is so well illustrated by these ted conferences , and yet we're destroying the only home we have .	到底發生了什麼事 ? 我的意思是 , 問題來了 , 我們是最聰明的生物 , 能夠走過地球 , 帶著非凡的腦袋 , 能夠用這些ted會議所描繪出來的科技 , 但我們卻在摧毀我們唯一的家園 。
the indigenous people around the world , before they made a major decision , used to sit around and ask themselves , " how does this decision affect our people seven generations ahead ? "	世界各地的原住民 , 在他們做出重大決策之前 , 曾經坐下來問自己: 「 這個決策如何影響我們前面的七代人 ? 」
today , major decisions and i'm not particularly talking about africa here , but the developed world major decisions involving millions of dollars , and millions of people , are often based on , " how will this affect the next shareholders' meeting ? "	今天 , 主要的決策 , 我不是特別在談非洲 , 而是已開發國家的主要決策 , 包含了數百萬美金 , 數百萬人 , 通常基於 「 這會如何影響下股東會議 ? 」
and these decisions affect africa .	這些決定會影響非洲 。
as i began traveling around africa talking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests , i realized more and more how so many of africa's problems could be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation .	當我開始在非洲四處旅行 , 談到黑猩猩所面臨的問題 , 以及消失的森林 , 我了解到 , 非洲有多少問題可能是前次殖民地剝削 。
so i began traveling outside africa , talking in europe , talking in the united states , going to asia .	所以我開始到非洲外面去 , 在歐洲 , 說話 , 在美國說話 , 去亞洲 。
and everywhere there were these terrible problems .	到處都有這些可怕的問題 。
and you know the kind i'm talking about . i'm talking about pollution .	你知道我在說的那種 。 我在說的是污染 。
the air that we breathe that often poisons us .	我們呼吸的空氣通常會毒害我們 。
the earth is poisoning our foods .	地球正在毒害我們的食物 。
the water water is perhaps one of the most crucial issues that we're going to face in this century and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural , industrial and household chemicals that still are being sprayed around the world , seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience .	水資源可能是這世紀我們要面對的最關鍵議題之一 , 到處都是農業、工業和家庭的污染 , 仍然被全世界噴灑的化學物質之一 , 似乎無法從過去經驗中獲利 。
the mangroves are being cut down ; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse .	紅樹林被砍伐 , 海嘯的效應變得更糟 。
we've talked about the soil erosion .	我們談過土壤侵蝕 。
we have the reckless burning of fossil fuels along with other greenhouse gasses , so called , leading to climate change .	我們有無數的燃燒化石燃料和其他溫室氣體一起燃燒 , 所以 , 稱為氣候變遷 。
finally , all around the world , people have begun to believe that there is something going on very wrong with our climate .	最後 , 全世界的人開始相信氣候有問題 。
all around the world climates are mixed up .	全世界的氣候都被混合在一起 。
and it's the poor people who are affected worse .	影響更糟的是窮人 。
it's africa that already is affected .	非洲已經受到影響 。
in many parts of subsaharan africa , the droughts are so much worse .	在撒哈拉以南非洲的許多地區 , 乾旱越來越嚴重 。
and when the rain does come , it so often leads to flooding and added distress , and the cycle of poverty and hunger and disease .	當雨來臨時 , 通常會導致洪水、加上苦難 , 以及貧窮、飢餓和疾病的循環 。
and the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support , who are too poor to buy food , who can't move away because the whole land is degraded .	住在一個土地無法支撐的地區 , 太貧窮的人們無法購買食物 , 因為整個土地已經退化了 。
and so you get desertification creeping , creeping , creeping as the last of the trees are cut down .	所以你會得到沙漠化、磨損、磨損 , 隨著樹木的最後一棵被砍伐 。
and this kind of thing is not just in africa . it's all over the world .	這種事情不只發生在非洲 , 全世界都是如此 。
so it wasn't surprising to me that as i was traveling around the world i met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope .	所以 , 我並不意外 , 當我在世界各地旅行時 , 我遇到了許多年輕人 , 他們似乎失去了希望 。
we seem to have lost wisdom , the wisdom of the indigenous people .	我們似乎失去了智慧 , 原住民的智慧 。
i asked a question . " why ? "	我問了一個問題: 「 為什麼 ? 」
well , do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain , the kind of brain that the ted technologies exemplify , and the human heart ? talking about it in the nonscientific term , in terms of love and compassion . is there some disconnect ?	嗯 , 你認為在這個非凡聰明的大腦中 , 可能有某種區別 , 這種區分了ted的科技 , 而人類的心 ? 以科學的角度來說 , 在愛和同情的角度來說 , 是否有某種隔閡 ?
and these young people , when i talk to them , basically they were either depressed or apathetic , or bitter and angry . and they said more or less the same thing , " we feel this way because we feel you've compromised our future and there's nothing we can do about it . "	而這些年輕人 , 當我跟他們說話時 , 基本上他們不是憂鬱、冷漠、憤怒 , 他們說了同樣的話: 「 我們覺得你已經犯下了我們的未來 , 我們沒有辦法做這件事 。 」
we have compromised their future .	我們已經妥協了他們的未來 。
i've got three little grandchildren , and every time i look at them and i think how we've harmed this beautiful planet since i was their age , i feel this desperation .	我有三個小孫子 , 每當我看著他們 , 我想我們如何傷害這個美麗的星球 , 自從我年紀開始 , 我感到絕望 。
and that led to this program we call roots and shoots , which began right here in tanzania and has now spread to 97 countries around the world .	導致這個計畫 , 我們稱之為根與芽 , 它從坦尚尼亞開始 , 現在已經擴散到全世界97個國家 。
it's symbolic . roots make a firm foundation .	它是象徵性的 。 根是建立一間公司基礎 。
shoots seem tiny ; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall .	射擊看起來很小 ; 為了抵達太陽 , 它們可以穿過磚牆 。
see the brick wall as all these problems we've inflicted on the planet , environmental and social . it's a message of hope .	把磚牆看成我們在地球上所遇到的問題 , 環境和社會問題 。 這是希望的訊息 。
hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things .	全世界有數十萬名年輕人可以打破這個世界 , 為所有生物創造一個更好的世界 。
the most important message of roots and shoots: every single one of us makes a difference , every single day .	根與芽的最重要的訊息:我們每一個人每天都能做出改變 。
we have a choice . every one of us in this room , we have a choice as to what kind of difference we want to make .	我們有選擇 。 在座的每一個人 , 我們都有選擇 , 我們想要做出什麼樣的差別 。
the very poor have no choice . it's up to us to change things so that the poor have choice as well .	窮人沒有選擇權 , 我們要改變現狀 , 讓窮人也有選擇 。
the roots and shoots groups all choose three projects .	根與芽團體都選擇了三個計畫 。
it depends on how old they are , and which country , whether they're in a city or rural , as to what kinds of projects .	這取決於他們有多老 , 哪個國家 , 不論他們身在城市或鄉村 , 都要看什麼樣的計畫 。
but basically , we have programs now from preschool right through university , with more and more adults starting their own roots and shoots groups .	但基本上 , 我們現在已經從幼稚園到大學 , 越來越多的成人開始自己的根與芽團體 。
and every group chooses , between them , three different kinds of project to make this a better world , recognizing that all these different problems are interconnected and impinge on each other .	每個團體都選擇 , 在他們之間 , 三個不同的項目 , 來讓這個更美好的世界變得更好 , 了解到 , 所有這些不同的問題都互相連結 , 並互相影響 。
so one of their projects will be to help their own human community .	其中一項計畫就是幫助他們自己的社群 。
and then , if they're able , they may raise money to help communities in other parts of the world .	如果他們能夠的話 , 他們可能會籌錢協助世界其他地方的社區 。
one of their projects will be to help animals not just wildlife , domestic animals as well .	其中一項計畫是幫助動物 , 不僅僅是野生動物 , 家庭的動物 。
and one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share .	其中一項計畫就是幫助我們共享的環境 。
and woven throughout all of this is a message of learning to live in peace and harmony within ourselves , in our families , in our communities , between nations , between cultures , between religions and between us and the natural world .	整體來說 , 學習在我們自己、在我們的家庭、在我們的社區、文化、宗教、我們之間、和自然界之間生活的訊息 。
we need the natural world . we cannot go on destroying it at the rate we are .	我們需要自然世界 。 我們不能以我們現在的速度去摧毀它 。
we not do have more than this one planet .	我們沒有比這個星球還多 。
just picking one or two of the projects right here in africa that the roots and shoots groups are doing , one or two projects only in tanzania , in uganda , kenya , south africa , congobrazzaville , sierra leone , cameroon and other groups . and as i say , it's in 97 countries around the world .	在非洲這裡挑選一到兩項項項目:根與芽團體正在進行 , 一到兩項專案只有在坦尚尼亞、肯亞、南非、剛果巴拉斯維爾、獅子山共和國、喀麥隆和其他團體 。 如我所說 , 它在世界上97個國家 。
of course , they're planting trees . they're growing organic vegetables .	當然 , 他們種植樹木 , 種植有機蔬菜 。
they're working in the refugee camps , with chickens and selling the eggs for a little amount of money , or just using them to feed their families , and feeling a sense of pride and empowerment , because they're no longer helpless and depending on others with their vegetables and their chickens .	他們在難民營工作 , 賣掉雞蛋 , 賣掉一些錢 , 或只用它們餵飽家人 , 感受到驕傲和賦權 , 因為他們不再無助 , 也不再仰賴其他人 , 他們的蔬菜和雞 。
it's being used in uganda to give some psychological help to exchild soldiers .	它被用在烏干達 , 給予一些心理協助 , 來展現士兵 。
doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves .	做像這樣的計畫 , 把他們自己帶出去 。
once again , they're useful members of society .	再一次 , 他們是社會中有用的成員 。
we have this program in prisons as well .	我們在監獄也有這個計畫 。
so , there's no time for more roots and shoots now .	所以 , 現在沒有時間可以讓更多的根與芽 。
but oh , they're also working on hiv/aids .	但喔 , 他們也在研究hiv/aids 。
that's a very important component of roots and shoots , with older kids talking to younger ones .	這是根與芽的重要成分 , 與較年長的孩子對話 。
and unwanted pregnancies and things like that , which young people listen to better from other youth , rather than adults .	不想懷孕 , 諸如此類 , 年輕人會傾聽其他年輕人的聲音 , 而非成人 。
hope . that's the question i get asked as i'm going around the world: " jane , you've seen so many terrible things , you've seen your chimpanzees decrease in number from about one million , at the turn of the century , to no more than 150 , 000 now , and the same with so many other animals .	希望 。 這就是我在世界各地被問到的問題: 「 珍 , 你見過這麼多可怕的事情 , 你見過你的黑猩猩數量從一百萬增加到一世紀 , 到現在都不超過十五萬 , 其他動物也一樣 。
forests disappearing , deserts where once there was forest .	森林消失 , 曾經有森林的沙漠 。
do you really have hope ? " well , yes .	你真的有希望嗎 ? 」 好吧 。
you can't come to a conference like ted and not have hope , can you ?	你不能來參加像ted這樣的會議 , 沒有希望 , 你能嗎 ?
and of course , there's hope . one is this amazing human brain .	當然 , 還有希望 。 其中一個是人類的神奇大腦 。
and i mean , think of the technologies .	我的意思是 , 想想科技 。
and i've just been so thrilled , finally , to come to people talking about compost latrines .	最後 , 我很興奮 , 最後 , 來談談堆肥式廁所 。
it's one of my hobbyhorses .	它是我的嗜好之一 。
we just flush all this water down the lavatory , it's terrible .	我們只是把所有的水沖到火車上 , 很糟糕 。
and then talking about renewable energy desperately important .	接著 , 談論再生能源 , 極其重要 。
do we care about the planet for our children ?	我們是否在乎我們的孩子 ?
how many of us have children or grandchildren , nieces , nephews ?	有多少人有小孩或孫子、姪子、姪子 ?
do we care about their future ?	我們關心他們的未來嗎 ?
and if we care about their future , we , as the elite around the world , we can do something about it . we can make choices as to how we live each day .	如果我們關心他們的未來 , 我們 , 身為世界各地菁英 , 我們能做點什麼 。 我們可以做出選擇 , 來當我們每天的生活 。
what we buy . what we wear .	我們買了什麼 , 穿什麼 。
and choose to make these choices with the question , how will this affect the environment around me ?	選擇用問題來做這些選擇 , 這會如何影響我周圍的環境 ?
how will it affect the life of my child when he or she grows up ?	在他長大後 , 它會如何影響我的孩子的生活 ?
or my grandchild , or whatever it is .	或我的孫子 , 或其他東西 。
so the human brain , coupled with the human heart , and we join hands around the world .	所以 , 人類的大腦 , 和人類的心情結合 , 我們加入了全世界的手 。
and that's what ted is helping so well with , and google who help us , and esri are helping us with mapping in gombe national park .	ted就是這樣幫助我們 , 谷歌幫助我們 , esri也幫助我們繪製在gombe國家公園的地圖 。
all of these technologies we can use .	所有我們能使用的科技 。
now let's link them , and it's beginning to happen , isn't it ?	現在讓我們連結它們 , 開始發生了 , 不是嗎 ?
you've heard about it this afternoon . it's beginning to happen .	今天下午你已經聽過了 , 開始發生了 。
this change , this change . to see change that we must have if we care about the future .	這個改變 , 這個改變 。 若我們關心未來 , 我們必須要有所改變 。
and the next reason for hope nature is amazingly resilient .	希望大自然的下一個理由非常有韌性 。
you can take an area that's absolutely destroyed , with time and perhaps some help it can regenerate .	你可以把一個絕對被摧毀的區域 , 用時間 , 或許有些幫助它再生 。
and an example is the tacare program .	一個例子是坦尚尼亞計劃 。
i told you , where a seemingly dead tree stump if you stop hacking them for firewood , which you don't need to because you have wood lots , then in five years you can have a 30foot tree .	我告訴各位 , 看似死掉的樹木 , 如果你停止砍掉它們 , 你不需要砍掉它們 , 因為你有木頭 , 那麼五年內 , 你就有一棵30英呎樹 。
and animals , almost on the brink of extinction , can be given a second chance . that's my next book .	動物 , 幾乎在滅絕的邊緣 , 可以給予第二次機會 。 這是我的下一本書 。
it's inspiring . and it brings me to my last category of hope , and we've heard about this so much in the last two days: this indomitable human spirit . this determination of people , the resilience of the human spirit , so that people who you would think would be battered by poverty , or disease , or whatever , can pull themselves up out of it , sometimes with a helping hand , and take their part in society , and take their part in changing the world .	這很鼓舞人心 。 這帶給我最後一個希望的類別 , 我們在過去兩天裡都聽過這一點:這種不屈不撓的人類精神 。 這個決心 , 人類精神的韌性 , 使你認為會被貧窮、疾病所打擊的人們 , 或其他的人們 , 有時會用手伸出手 , 把他們的部分帶進社會中 , 改變世界 。
and just to think of one or two people out of africa who are just really inspiring .	想想非洲有一兩個人 , 他們真的很鼓舞人心 。
we could make a very long list , but obviously nelson mandela , emerging from 17 years of hard physical labor , 23 years of imprisonment , with this amazing ability to forgive , so that he could lead his nation out the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath .	我們可以列出很長的清單 , 但顯然納爾遜•曼德拉從十七年的辛苦勞動 , 23年的監禁 , 帶著這令人驚訝的寬恕的能力 , 讓他能帶領他的國家 , 走出種族隔離的邪惡政權 , 沒有血盆 。
ken sarowiwa , in nigeria , who took on the giant oil companies , and although people around the world tried their best , was executed .	奈及利亞的肯薩萊瓦 , 他接納了巨型石油公司 , 雖然全世界的人都嘗試了最好的 , 被處決了 。
people like this are so inspirational .	像這樣的人非常鼓舞人心 。
people like this are the role models we need for young africans .	像這樣的人 , 是非洲年輕人所需要的榜樣 。
and we need some environmental role models as well , and i've been hearing some of them today .	我們也需要一些環保的榜樣 , 我今天也聽過一些 。
so i'm really grateful for this opportunity to share this message again , with everyone at ted .	所以 , 我很感激這個機會再次分享這個訊息 , 和ted的每個人分享 。
and i hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things , especially the roots and shoots program .	我希望有些人能聚在一起討論這些事 , 特別是根與芽計畫 。
and just a last word on that the young woman who's running this entire conference center , i met her today .	最後一個詞是一位經營這整個會議中心的年輕女士 , 我今天認識了她 。
she came up so excited , with her certificate . she was [in] roots and shoots .	她很興奮 , 她的認證很興奮 。 她是根和芽 。
she was in the leadership in dar es salaam .	她在達拉姆的領導階層 。
she said it's helped her to do what she's doing .	她說 , 這協助她做她正在做的事 。
and it was very , very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people , when they are empowered , given the opportunity to take action , to make the world a better place , truly are our hope for tomorrow .	讓我非常興奮地見到她 , 看到一個例子 , 說明年輕人是如何被賦權的 , 因為有機會採取行動 , 讓世界變得更美好 , 真正是我們明天的希望 。
artist dianna cohen shares some tough truths about plastic pollution in the ocean and in our lives and some thoughts on how to free ourselves from the plastic gyre .	藝術家黛安娜柯恩在海洋中和我們的生活中 , 分享了一些關於塑膠污染的艱難真相 。 還有一些想法 , 關於如何從塑膠健身中解放我們自己 。
consumerism , global issues , green , mission blue , oceans , plastic	消費主義、全球議題、綠色、使命藍、海洋、塑膠、塑膠等 。
dianna cohen: tough truths about plastic pollution	黛安娜柯恩:對塑膠污染的艱難真相 。
i'm a visual artist , and i'm also one of the cofounders of the plastic pollution coalition .	我是視覺藝術家 , 我也是塑膠污染聯盟的共同創辦人之一 。
i've been working with plastic bags , which i cut up and sew back together as my primary material for my artwork for the last 20 years .	我一直在研究塑膠袋 , 我把塑膠袋剪下來 , 縫合成我作品的主要材料 , 在過去二十年間 。
i turn them into two and threedimensional pieces and sculptures and installations .	我把它們變成二維、三維空間的碎片、雕塑和裝置 。
upon working with the plastic , after about the first eight years , some of my work started to fissure and break down into smaller little bits of plastic .	在與塑膠合作的前八年 , 我的工作中 , 有些開始裂縫 , 分解成更小的塑膠 。
and i thought , " great .	我心想: 「 太棒了 。
it's ephemeral just like us . "	跟我們一樣是短暫的 。 」
upon educating myself a little further about plastics , i actually realized this was a bad thing .	在我更進一步教育塑膠時 , 我發現這是件壞事 。
it's a bad thing that plastic breaks down into smaller little bits , because it's always still plastic .	塑膠會分解成更小的部分 , 因為它總是塑膠 。
and what we're finding is that a lot of it is in the marine environment .	我們發現 , 很多都是在海洋環境中 。
i then , in the last few years , learned about the pacific garbage patch and the gyre .	接著 , 在過去幾年 , 我學到太平洋垃圾堆和健身房 。
and my initial reaction and i think this is a lot of people's first reaction to learning about it is , " oh my god !	我最初的反應和我認為這是很多人對它的第一個反應: 「 天啊 !
we've got to go out there and clean this thing up . "	我們得要走出去 , 把這個東西清乾淨 。 」
so i actually developed a proposal to go out with a cargo ship and two decommissioned fishing trawlers , a crane , a chipping machine and a coldmolding machine .	因此我提出了一個提案 , 要搭乘貨櫃 , 和兩艘被丟棄的漁船拖船 , 一艘船 , 一台滑雪機器 , 和一台冷冰的機器 。
and my intention was to go out to the gyre , raise awareness about this issue and begin to pick up the plastic , chip it into little bits and cold mold it into bricks that could potentially be used as building materials in underdeveloped communities .	我的意圖是要走到健身房 , 提高對這個議題的認知 , 並開始將塑膠分解成一點點 , 將它冷到磚塊中 , 讓它可以被當作社區內部的建築材料 。
i began talking with people who actually had been out to the gyre and were studying the plastic problem in the marine environment and upon doing so , i realized actually that cleaning it up would be a very small drop in the bucket relative to how much is being generated every day around the world , and that actually i needed to back up and look at the bigger picture .	我開始和那些曾經去過健身房的人聊天 , 研究海洋環境裡的塑膠問題 , 我意識到 , 清理它會是非常小的一滴 , 相較於每天在世界各地產生的數量 , 實際上 , 我需要回頭看看更大的圖片 。
and the bigger picture is: we need to find a way to turn off the faucet .	更大的圖片是:我們需要找到一種方法來關掉水龍頭 。
we need to cut the spigot of singleuse and disposable plastics , which are entering the marine environment every day on a global scale .	我們需要切割使用和丟棄塑膠的位置 , 每天都要進入海洋環境 , 以全球性的規模 。
so in looking at that , i also realized that i was really angry .	仔細看 , 我也了解到我真的很生氣 。
i wasn't just concerned about plastic that you're trying to imagine out in the middle of the pacific ocean of which i have learned there are now 11 gyres , potentially , of plastic in five major oceans in the world .	我不只在乎塑膠 , 你在太平洋中期想出來 , 我發現現在有11個健身 , 可能是世界上五個大海裡的塑膠 。
it's not just that gyre of plastic that i'm concerned about it's the gyre of plastic in the supermarket .	我所關心的塑膠不僅僅是超市裡的塑膠工廠 。
i'd go to the supermarket and all of my food is packaged in plastic .	我會去超市 , 所有的食物都是塑膠包裝 。
all of my beverages are packaged in plastic , even at the health food market .	我所有的飲料都是塑膠的包裝 , 甚至在健康食品市場上 。
i'm also concerned about the plastic in the refrigerator , and i'm concerned about the plastic and the toxins that leach from plastic into us and into our bodies .	我也擔心冰箱裡的塑膠 , 我擔心塑膠和毒素會從塑膠中滲透到我們體內 。
so i came together with a group of other people who were all looking at this issue , and we created the plastic pollution coalition .	所以我和一群人聚在一起 , 他們都在研究這個議題 , 我們創造了塑膠污染聯盟 。
we have many initiatives that we're working on , but some of them are very basic .	我們有很多我們正在努力的倡議 , 但其中有些是非常基本的 。
one is: if 80 to 90 percent of what we're finding in the ocean of the marine debris that we're finding in the ocean is plastic , then why don't we call it what it is .	第一:如果80%到90%的海洋碎片 , 我們在海洋中發現的就是塑膠 , 那我們為什麼不把它稱之為 「 塑膠 」 。
recycling everybody kind of ends their books about being sustainable and greening with the idea of recycling .	回收每個人的書 , 都是關於永續發展和綠化 , 都是回收的概念 。
you put something in a bin and you don't have to think about it again .	你把東西放到一塊垃圾桶裡 , 你不用再想一想 。
what is the reality of that ?	這是什麼呢 ?
in the united states , less than seven percent of our plastics are recycled .	在美國 , 低於7%的塑膠回收 。
and if you really look into it , particularly when it comes to plastic bottles , most of it is only downcycled , or incinerated , or shipped to china .	如果你仔細觀察 , 特別是塑膠瓶 , 大部份只會被低收利用 , 或被焚化 , 或運送到中國 。
it is downcycled and turned into lesser things , while a glass bottle can be a glass bottle again or can be used again a plastic bottle can never be a plastic bottle again .	它的循環被轉換成比較少的東西 , 玻璃瓶可以再次變成玻璃瓶 , 或是再次使用塑膠瓶 , 絕對不會再次成為塑膠瓶 。
so this is a big issue for us .	這對我們來說是個大問題 。
another thing that we're looking at and asking people to think about is we've added a fourth r onto the front of the " reduce , reuse , recycle , " three r's , and that is refuse .	另一件我們正在看的東西 , 請大家思考的是 , 我們在 「 減少、再利用、回收 」 前面加上了第四個r , 那就拒絕了 。
whenever possible , refuse singleuse and disposable plastics .	每當可能發生時 , 都會拒絕使用和丟棄的塑膠 。
alternatives exist ; some of them are very oldschool .	替代方案存在 ; 有些是很古老的 。
i myself am now collecting these cool pyrex containers and using those instead of glad and tupperware containers to store food in .	我現在在收集這些冷酷的pyrex容器 , 用這些裝置 , 而不是發電裝置來儲存食物 。
and i know that i am doing a service to myself and my family .	我知道我對自己和我的家人做了一個服務 。
it's very easy to pick up a stainlesssteel bottle or a glass bottle , if you're traveling and you've forgotten to bring your stainlesssteel bottle and fill that up with water or filtered water , versus purchasing plastic bottled water .	很容易就拿起不穩定的瓶子或玻璃瓶 , 如果你在旅行 , 你忘了把你的不穩定的瓶裝滿水或過濾水 , 和購買塑膠瓶裝水 。
i guess what i want to say to everybody here and i know that you guys know a lot about this issue is that this is a huge problem in the oceans , but this is a problem that we've created as consumers and we can solve .	我想在座的各位 , 我知道你們對這個議題的了解是 , 這在海洋中是個大問題 , 但身為消費者 , 我們所創造出的問題是可以解決的 。
we can solve this by raising awareness of the issue and teaching people to choose alternatives .	我們可以藉由提高意識到這個問題並教導人們選擇替代方案 。
so whenever possible , to choose alternatives to singleuse plastics .	所以每當可能時 , 選擇使用單一塑膠的替代方案 。
we can cut the stem tide the stem of this into our oceans and in doing so , save our oceans , save our planet , save ourselves .	我們可以將它的幹細胞切成海洋 , 這樣一來 , 拯救海洋 , 拯救地球 , 拯救我們自己 。
this demo from pattie maes' lab at mit , spearheaded by pranav mistry was the buzz of ted . it's a wearable device with a projector that paves the way for profound interaction with our environment . imagine " minority report " and then some .	來自麻省理工學院的pattiemaes實驗室的示範 , 由pranavmitry所發表的 , 是ted的buzz 。 這是一個可穿戴式裝置 , 用投影機來繪製我們與環境的深度互動 。 想像一下 , 「 少數報告 」 再加上一些 。
demo , design , interface design , technology	demo , 設計 , 介面設計 , 科技 , 科技 。
pattie maes and pranav mistry demo sixthsense	pattiemaes和panav錯過了第六感 。
i've been intrigued by this question of whether we could evolve or develop a sixth sense a sense that would give us seamless access and easy access to metainformation or information that may exist somewhere that may be relevant to help us make the right decision about whatever it is that we're coming across .	我對這個問題很感興趣 , 關於我們能否進化或發展出第六感的感覺 , 給予我們無縫接觸和容易取得的資訊 , 或可能存在的資訊 , 可以協助我們做出正確的決定 , 來決定我們要面對的是什麼 。
and some of you may argue , well , don't today's cell phones do that already ?	有些人可能會認為 , 今天的手機已經不行了嗎 ?
but i would say no .	但我會說 , 不 。
when you meet someone here at ted and this is the top networking place , of course , of the year you don't shake somebody's hand and then say , " can you hold on for a moment while i take out my phone and google you ? "	當你在ted認識一個人 , 當然 , 這是最頂尖的網絡場所 , 在那年你不會握手 , 然後說: 「 你能拿出我的手機和google嗎 ? 」
or when you go to the supermarket and you're standing there in that huge aisle of different types of toilet papers , you don't take out your cell phone , and open a browser , and go to a website to try to decide which of these different toilet papers is the most ecologically responsible purchase to make .	或當你去超市 , 你站在那一大堆不同的馬桶文件裡 , 你不會拿出你的手機 , 打開瀏覽器 , 去一個網站 , 試著決定這些不同的廁所論文是最環保的購買 。
so we don't really have easy access to all this relevant information that can just help us make optimal decisions about what to do next and what actions to take .	所以我們並不容易取得所有相關的資訊 , 只能協助我們做出最佳的決定 , 決定下一步該怎麼做 , 以及該採取什麼行動 。
and so my research group at the media lab has been developing a series of inventions to give us access to this information in a sort of easy way , without requiring that the user changes any of their behavior .	所以我在媒體實驗室的研究團隊開發了一系列的發明 , 讓我們能以一種簡單的方式取得這些資訊 , 而不需要使用者改變他們的行為 。
and i'm here to unveil our latest effort , and most successful effort so far , which is still very much a work in process .	我來這裡是為了揭開我們最新的努力 , 目前為止 , 最成功的努力 , 在過程中仍然是一份工作 。
i'm actually wearing the device right now and we've sort of cobbled it together with components that are off the shelf and that , by the way , only cost 350 dollars at this point in time .	我現在正戴著這個裝置 , 我們把它融合在一起 , 順帶一提 , 目前只需要花350美元 。
i'm wearing a camera , just a simple webcam , a portable , batterypowered projection system with a little mirror .	我戴著相機 , 只是一個簡單的網路攝影機 , 一個可攜式、電池驅動的投影系統 , 用鏡子 。
these components communicate to my cell phone in my pocket which acts as the communication and computation device .	這些元件跟我的口袋裡的手機溝通 , 它是溝通和計算裝置 。
and in the video here we see my student pranav mistry , who's really the genius who's been implementing and designing this whole system .	在影片中 , 我們看到我的學生帕納•錯誤 , 他真的是天才 , 他一直在執行和設計這整個系統 。
and we see how this system lets him walk up to any surface and start using his hands to interact with the information that is projected in front of him .	我們看到這個系統讓他走到任何表面 , 開始用他的雙手來和他面前投射的資訊互動 。
the system tracks the four significant fingers .	系統追蹤了四隻手指 。
in this case , he's wearing simple marker caps that you may recognize .	在這個案例中 , 他戴著你可能認得的簡單標記帽 。
but if you want a more stylish version you could also paint your nails in different colors .	但如果你想要更風格的版本 , 你也可以用不同顏色來畫你的指甲 。
and the camera basically tracks these four fingers and recognizes any gestures that he's making so he can just go to , for example , a map of long beach , zoom in and out , etc .	攝影機基本上追蹤這四隻手指並辨識出他所創造的任何手勢 , 例如 , 長灘的地圖 , 放大 , 等等 。
the system also recognizes iconic gestures such as the " take a picture " gesture , and then takes a picture of whatever is in front of you .	系統也能辨識出像 「 拍照 」 的標誌性姿勢 , 然後拍一張你面前的任何東西 。
and when he then walks back to the media lab , he can just go up to any wall and project all the pictures that he's taken , sort through them and organize them , and resize them , etc . , again using all natural gestures .	當他走回媒體實驗室時 , 他可以走到任何牆上 , 投射他拍攝的所有照片 , 把它們整理起來 , 再次重塑 , 再次使用所有自然的手勢 。
so , some of you most likely were here two years ago and saw the demo by jeff han or some of you may think , " well , doesn't this look like the microsoft surface table ? "	有些人可能在兩年前就在這裡看到傑夫•漢的示範 , 有些人可能會想: 「 嗯 , 這看起來不像微軟的表面桌子嗎 ? 」
and yes , you also interact using natural gestures , both hands , etc .	是的 , 你也會用自然的手勢來互動 , 雙手等等 。
but the difference here is that you can use any surface , you can walk to up to any surface , including your hand if nothing else is available and interact with this projected data .	但不同的是 , 你可以用任何表面 , 你可以走到任何表面 , 包括你的手 , 如果沒有其他東西可以用 , 和這個投影資料互動 。
the device is completely portable , and can be . . .	這個裝置是可攜式的 , 可以......
so one important difference is that it's totally mobile .	其中一個重要的差別是它完全是行動起來的 。
another even more important difference is that in mass production this would not cost more tomorrow than today's cell phones and would actually not sort of be a bigger packaging could look a lot more stylish than this version that i'm wearing around my neck .	另一個更重要的差別是 , 在大規模生產上 , 這不會比現今的手機花更多 , 也不會變成更大的包裝 , 看起來比我在脖子上戴的這個版本還要多 。
but other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as tom cruise in " minority report , " the reason why we're really excited about this device is that it really can act as one of these sixthsense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you .	但除此之外 , 除了讓你們之外 , 在《少數報告》中的湯姆•克魯斯 , 我們之所以對這個裝置感到興奮的原因 , 是因為它真的可以扮演這第六感的裝置之一 , 讓你有相關資訊 , 讓你知道在你面前的任何東西 。
so we see pranav here going into the supermarket and he's shopping for some paper towels .	我們看到帕納走進超市 , 他正在購買一些紙巾 。
and , as he picks up a product the system can recognize the product that he's picking up , using either image recognition or marker technology , and give him the green light or an orange light .	當他拿起產品系統時 , 可以辨識出他所拿到的產品 , 用的是影像辨識或標記技術 , 給他綠光或橘色光 。
he can ask for additional information .	他可以要求額外的資訊 。
so this particular choice here is a particularly good choice , given his personal criteria .	所以這個特別的選擇 , 特別是他個人的標準 。
some of you may want the toilet paper with the most bleach in it rather than the most ecologicallyresponsible choice .	有些人可能希望廁所紙上有最多的白化紙 , 而不是最環保的選擇 。
if he picks up a book in the bookstore , he can get an amazon rating it gets projected right on the cover of the book .	如果他在書店裡拿起一本書 , 他可以拿到亞馬遜的評分 , 它就會被投射到書的封面上 。
this is juan's book , our previous speaker , which gets a great rating , by the way , at amazon .	這是胡安的書 , 我們先前的講者 , 順便說一下 , 在亞馬遜得到了很棒的評分 。
and so , pranav turns the page of the book and can then see additional information about the book reader comments , maybe sort of information by his favorite critic , etc .	所以 , 帕納翻了書的頁面 , 再看看書中讀者留言的額外資訊 , 可能是他最喜歡的批評 , 等等 。
if he turns to a particular page he finds an annotation by maybe an expert of a friend of ours that gives him a little bit of additional information about whatever is on that particular page .	如果他轉到特定的頁面 , 他可能找到了我們朋友的註解專家 , 給他一些關於那一頁內容的額外資訊 。
reading the newspaper it never has to be outdated .	閱讀報紙 , 它永遠不會被過時 。
you can get video annotations of the event that you're reading about you can get the latest sports scores etc .	你可以得到你正在讀的事件的影片註冊 , 你可以得到最新的體育分數 。
this is a more controversial one .	這是更具爭議性的 。
as you interact with someone at ted , maybe you can see a word cloud of the tags , the words that are associated with that person in their blog and personal web pages .	當你和ted的某人互動 , 也許你能看到標籤的雲 , 和那個人的部落格和個人網頁相關的字詞 。
in this case , the student is interested in cameras , etc .	在這個案例中 , 學生對攝影機有興趣 , 等等 。
on your way to the airport , if you pick up your boarding pass , it can tell you that your flight is delayed , that the gate has changed , etc .	在你去機場的路上 , 如果你拿起你的登機通行證 , 它可以告訴你你的航班延遲了 , 大門已經改變了 , 等等 。
and , if you need to know what the current time is it's as simple as drawing a watch on your arm .	如果你需要知道現在的時刻 , 就像在你的手臂上畫一支手臂上的手錶一樣簡單 。
so that's where we're at so far in developing this sixth sense that would give us seamless access to all this relevant information about the things that we may come across .	這就是我們目前正在發展的第六感 , 讓我們能取得所有關於我們可能遇到的事物的相關資訊 。
my student pranav , who's really , like i said , the genius behind this .	我的學生帕拉夫 , 真的 , 就像我說的 , 背後的天才 。
he does deserve a lot of applause because i don't think he's slept much in the last three months , actually .	他的確需要很多掌聲 , 因為我不認為他在過去三個月中睡得太多 。
and his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either .	他的女友也可能對他也不滿意 。
but it's not perfect yet , it's very much a work in progress .	但它還不完美 , 它在進步中非常多 。
and who knows , maybe in another 10 years we'll be here with the ultimate sixth sense brain implant .	誰知道 , 或許在接下來的十年 , 我們將會與第六次的大腦植入 。
phyllis rodriguez and aicha elwafi have a powerful friendship born of unthinkable loss . rodriguez' son was killed in the world trade center attacks on september 11 , 2001 ; elwafi's son zacarias moussaoui was convicted of a role in those attacks and is serving a life sentence . in hoping to find peace , these two moms have come to understand and respect one another .	菲利斯•羅德里格茲和艾ichaelwafi有一個強大的友誼 , 來自於無法想像的失去 。 羅德里格茲的兒子在世界貿易中心被殺害 , 2001年9月11日 , 伊爾威菲的兒子佐伊在那些攻擊中被判有一場角色 , 並且在這些攻擊中被判有生命的句子 。 希望找到和平 , 這兩位母親都能互相了解和尊重 。
culture , global issues , politics	文化、全球議題、政治、政治、
9/11 healing: the mothers who found forgiveness , friendship	9/11癒合:那些找到寬恕、友誼的母親 。
phyllis rodriguez: we are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship .	菲利斯•羅德里格茲:我們今天在這裡是因為我們有大多數人認為非比尋常的友誼 。
and yet , it feels natural to us now .	然而 , 我們現在感覺很自然 。
i first learned that my son had been in the world trade center on the morning of september 11th , 2001 .	我第一次了解到我兒子在世界貿易中心在2001年9月11日的早上 。
we didn't know if he had perished yet until 36 hours later .	我們不知道他是否死了 , 直到36小時之後 。
at the time , we knew that it was political .	當時 , 我們知道它是政治性的 。
we were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son my husband , orlando , and i and our family .	我們害怕我們的國家會怎麼做 , 以我們兒子的名字 , 我的丈夫 , 奧蘭多 , 我和我們的家人 。
and when i saw it and yet , through the shock , the terrible shock , and the terrible explosion in our lives , literally , we were not vengeful .	當我看到它時 , 很震驚的是 , 我們的生命中糟糕的爆炸 , 真的 , 我們並沒有被復仇 。
and a couple of weeks later when zacarias moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism , and the u . s . government called for a death penalty for him , if convicted , my husband and i spoke out in opposition to that , publicly .	幾個星期後 , zacariasmoussaoui被指控在六次犯下恐怖主義的陰謀上 , 以及美國政府要求為他死刑 , 如果定罪了 , 我的丈夫和我在公開對他說話 。
through that and through human rights groups , we were brought together with several other victims' families .	透過這些和人權團體 , 我們和許多其他受害者的家人聚在一起 。
when i saw aicha in the media , coming over when her son was indicted , and i thought , " what a brave woman .	當我在媒體上看到艾妮莎 , 她兒子被指控 , 我心想: 「 什麼是勇敢的女人 。
someday i want to meet that woman when i'm stronger . "	有一天 , 當我更強壯的時候 , 我想要和那個女人見面 。 」
i was still in deep grief ; i knew i didn't have the strength .	我仍然在悲慟中 ; 我知道我沒有力量 。
i knew i would find her someday , or we would find each other .	我知道我有一天會找到她 , 或我們會找到彼此 。
because , when people heard that my son was a victim , i got immediate sympathy .	因為 , 當人們聽到我兒子是受害者時 , 我立刻得到同情 。
but when people learned what her son was accused of , she didn't get that sympathy .	但當人們知道她的兒子被指控時 , 她沒有得到同情 。
but her suffering is equal to mine .	但她的苦難和我一樣 。
so we met in november 2002 , and aicha will now tell you how that came about .	我們在2002年11月見面 , 艾icha現在會告訴你這是怎麼來的 。
aicha elwafi: good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen .	aichaelwafi:下午 , 各位先生女士 。
i am the mother of zacarias moussaoui .	我是zacariasmoussaui的母親 。
and i asked the organization of human rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims .	我請人權組織讓我聯絡受害者的父母 。
so they introduced me to five families .	所以他們向我介紹五個家庭 。
and i saw phyllis , and i watched her .	我看到phyllis , 我看著她 。
she was the only mother in the group .	她是群體中唯一的母親 。
the others were brothers , sisters .	其他人則是兄弟姊妹 。
and i saw in her eyes that she was a mother , just like me .	我在她的眼中看到她就像我一樣 。
i suffered a lot as a mother .	我身為母親 , 遭受許多苦難 。
i was married when i was 14 .	我14歲時結婚 。
i lost a child when i was 15 , a second child when i was 16 .	我十五歲時失去了一個孩子 , 那時我十六歲 。
so the story with zacarias was too much really .	所以zacaria的故事實在太多了 。
and i still suffer , because my son is like he's buried alive .	我仍然受苦 , 因為我的兒子就像活著一樣 。
i know she really cried for her son .	我知道她真的為她的兒子哭了 。
but she knows where he is .	但她知道他在哪裡 。
my son , i don't know where he is .	我的兒子 , 我不知道他在哪裡 。
i don't know if he's alive . i don't know if he's tortured .	我不知道他是否活著 , 我不知道他是否受刑 。
i don't know what happened to him .	我不知道他發生了什麼事 。
so that's why i decided to tell my story , so that my suffering is something positive for other women .	所以 , 這就是為什麼我決定要說我的故事 , 所以我的痛苦對其他女性來說是正面的 。
for all the women , all the mothers that give life , you can give back , you can change .	對於所有婦女 , 所有給予生命的媽媽 , 你可以回饋 , 你可以改變 。
it's up to us women , because we are women , because we love our children .	取決於我們女性 , 因為我們是女性 , 因為我們愛我們的孩子 。
we must be handinhand and do something together .	我們必須親手合作 。
it's not against women , it's for us , for us women , for our children .	不是反對女性 , 而是為了我們 , 為我們女性 , 為我們的孩子 。
i talk against violence , against terrorism .	我談到暴力 , 對抗恐怖主義 。
i go to schools to talk to young , muslim girls so they don't accept to be married against their will very young .	我去學校跟年輕的穆斯林女孩說話 , 這樣她們不接受婚姻會很年輕 。
so if i can save one of the young girls , and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as i did , well this is something good .	所以 , 如果我能拯救其中一位年輕女孩 , 避免她們結婚和受苦 , 嗯 , 這是件好事 。
this is why i'm here in front of you .	這就是為什麼我會站在你們面前 。
pr: i would like to say that i have learned so much from aicha , starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members which was a very private meeting with security , because it was november 2002 , and , frankly , we were afraid of the superpatriotism of that time in the country those of us family members .	pr:我想說 , 我從阿加哈學到很多 , 從那天起 , 我們第一次和其他家庭成員開會 , 那是一個非常私人的會議 , 因為那是2002年11月 , 而且 , 坦白說 , 我們害怕那個國家那個時候的超級病菌 。
but we were all so nervous .	但我們都非常緊張 。
" why does she want to meet us ? "	「 她為什麼要見我們 ? 」
and then she was nervous .	然後她緊張了 。
" why did we want to meet her ? "	「 為什麼我們要見她 ? 」
what did we want from each other ?	我們想要彼此的是什麼 ?
before we knew each others' names , or anything , we had embraced and wept .	在我們認識彼此的名字之前 , 或任何東西之前 , 我們都接受了和哭泣 。
then we sat in a circle with support , with help , from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation .	接著 , 我們坐在一個圓圈裡 , 帶著幫助 , 帶著幫助 , 從人們身上 , 體驗到這種和解 。
and aicha started , and she said , " i don't know if my son is guilty or innocent , but i want to tell you how sorry i am for what happened to your families .	aicha開始了 , 她說: 「 我不知道我的兒子是否有罪惡感或無辜 , 但我想告訴你 , 我對你的家人的狀況有多麼抱歉 。
i know what it is to suffer , and i feel that if there is a crime , a person should be tried fairly and punished . "	我知道要受苦的是什麼 , 我覺得如果有犯罪 , 一個人應該要被公平的審判和懲罰 。 」
but she reached out to us in that way , and it was , i'd like to say , it was an icebreaker .	但她用那樣的方式向我們伸出援手 , 我想要說 , 那是個冰桶 。
and what happened then is we all told our stories , and we all connected as human beings .	接下來發生的是 , 我們都說了我們的故事 , 我們都以人類的身分連結 。
by the end of the afternoon it was about three hours after lunch we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever .	下午就結束了 , 午餐後的三小時 , 我們感覺好像我們永遠認識彼此一樣 。
now what i learned from her , is a woman , not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then , and what was being done to her son , but the life she's had .	我從她身上學到的 , 是女人 , 不僅僅是如此慷慨 , 在這些現況下 , 及當時的狀況下 , 以及她兒子所做的事 , 還有她所經歷的人生 。
i never had met someone with such a hard life , from such a totally different culture and environment from my own .	我從來沒有遇過像這樣艱難的生活 , 來自我自己的文化和環境 。
and i feel that we have a special connection , which i value very much .	我覺得我們有一個特別的連結 , 我非常重視 。
and i think it's all about being afraid of the other , but making that step and then realizing , " hey , this wasn't so hard .	我覺得這全是為了害怕另一個人 , 但要踏出那一步 , 然後意識到: 「 嘿 , 這一點也不難 。
who else can i meet that i don't know , or that i'm so different from ? "	我還能和誰見面 , 我不知道 , 或我和誰很不一樣 ? 」
so , aicha , do you have a couple of words for conclusion ?	所以 , aicha , 你有幾個字要做結論嗎 ?
because our time is up .	因為我們的時間到了 。
aw: i wanted to say that we have to try to know other people , the other .	aw:我想說 , 我們必須試著認識別人 , 其他人 。
you have to be generous , and your hearts must be generous , your mind must be generous .	你必須慷慨 , 你的心一定是慷慨的 , 你的心靈一定是慷慨的 。
you must be tolerant .	你一定是包容的 。
you have to fight against violence .	你必須對抗暴力 。
and i hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other .	我希望有一天我們都能一起生活在和平中 , 互相尊重 。
this is what i wanted to say .	這是我想要說的 。
too much of the world lacks access to clean drinking water . engineer michael pritchard did something about it inventing the portable lifesaver filter , which can make the most revolting water drinkable in seconds . an amazing demo from tedglobal 2009 .	太多世界缺乏乾淨飲用水的管道 。 工程師麥可•普立特在發明可攜式的救命過濾器 , 可以在幾秒鐘內完成最適合飲用水的示範 。 這是2009年tedglobal的驚人示範 。
business , demo , design , global issues , invention , technology , water	商業、展示、設計、全球議題、發明、科技、水源、水源、水源、
michael pritchard's water filter turns filthy water drinkable	michaelpritchard的水過濾器 , 會讓骯髒的水喝飲用 。
i'd like to talk about a couple of things today .	今天我想談談幾件事 。
the first thing is water .	第一件事是水 。
now i see you've all been enjoying the water that's been provided for you here at the conference , over the past couple of days .	現在我看到你們都很享受在研討會上為你們提供的水 , 在過去幾天裡 。
and i'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source .	我相信你們會覺得這是安全的來源 。
but what if it wasn't ?	但如果不是呢 ?
what if it was from a source like this ?	如果它是來自這樣的來源呢 ?
then statistics would actually say that half of you would now be suffering with diarrhea .	接著 , 統計數字會說你們當中一半的人現在會遭受腹瀉的苦難 。
i talked a lot in the past about statistics , and the provision of safe drinking water for all .	我在過去談了很多關於統計的議題 , 以及為所有人提供安全飲用水的條件 。
but they just don't seem to get through .	但他們似乎不會穿透 。
and i think i've worked out why .	我想我已經找出原因了 。
it's because , using current thinking , the scale of the problem just seems too huge to contemplate solving .	因為 , 使用目前的思考 , 問題的規模似乎太大了 , 無法解決 。
so we just switch off: us , governments and aid agencies .	所以我們就關掉了:我們、政府和援助機構 。
well , today , i'd like to show you that through thinking differently , the problem has been solved .	今天 , 我想用不同的方式來告訴各位 , 問題已經解決了 。
by the way , since i've been speaking , another 13 , 000 people around the world are suffering now with diarrhea .	順道一提 , 自從我開始演講之後 , 世界各地有一萬三千人正在受腹瀉所苦 。
and four children have just died .	四個孩子剛過世了 。
i invented lifesaver bottle because i got angry .	我發明了生命安全瓶 , 因為我生氣了 。
i , like most of you , was sitting down , the day after christmas in 2004 , when i was watching the devastating news of the asian tsunami as it rolled in , playing out on tv .	我和你們大部分人一樣 , 在2004年聖誕節過後的那天 , 當我在看亞洲海嘯的消息 , 當它滾進來時 , 我在電視上演出 。
the days and weeks that followed , people fleeing to the hills , being forced to drink contaminated water or face death .	接下來的日子和幾週 , 人們逃到山丘上 , 被迫喝下受污染的水或死亡 。
that really stuck with me .	這真的困擾了我 。
then , a few months later , hurricane katrina slammed into the side of america .	然後 , 幾個月後 , 颶風卡崔娜衝進美國邊 。
" okay , " i thought , " here's a first world country , let's see what they can do . "	「 好吧 , 」 我想: 「 這是第一個世界國家 , 咱們來看看他們能做什麼 。 」
do you know it took five days to get water to the superdome ?	你知道要花五天才能把水送到超級名嗎 ?
people were shooting each other on the streets for tv sets and water .	人們在街上為電視設定和水拍攝彼此 。
that's when i decided i had to do something .	那是我決定要做點什麼的時候 。
now i spent a lot of time in my garage , over the next weeks and months , and also in my kitchen much to the dismay of my wife .	現在我花了很多時間在我的車庫裡 , 在接下來的幾週、幾個月 , 在我的廚房裡 , 我太太太很不滿 。
however , after a few failed prototypes , i finally came up with this , the lifesaver bottle .	然而 , 在幾次失敗的原型之後 , 我終於想到了這個 , 救命瓶 。
okay , now for the science bit .	好 , 現在來談科學 。
before lifesaver , the best hand filters were only capable of filtering down to about 200 nanometers .	在生物救世代之前 , 最好的手過濾器只能過濾大約200奈米 。
the smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers .	最小的細菌大約是200奈米 。
so a 200nanometer bacteria is going to get through a 200nanometer hole .	所以一個200奈米的細菌將會穿過一個200奈米的洞 。
the smallest virus , on the other hand , is about 25 nanometers .	另一方面 , 最小的病毒大約是25奈米 。
so that's definitely going to get through those 200 nanometer holes .	這絕對是要穿過200奈米的洞 。
lifesaver pores are 15 nanometers .	救命者池塘是15奈米 。
so nothing is getting through .	所以 , 沒有任何東西能穿過 。
okay , i'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration .	好 , 我來示範一下 。
would you like to see that ?	你們想看到嗎 ?
i spent all the time setting this up , so i guess i should .	我花了很多時間把這些設定好 , 我想我應該這樣做 。
we're in the fine city of oxford .	我們在牛津的最好城市 。
so someone's done that up .	有人這樣做 。
fine city of oxford , so what i've done is i've gone and got some water from the river cherwell , and the river thames , that flow through here . and this is the water .	美好的牛津城 , 所以我做的是 , 我從河流中取得一些水 , 河流的thames , 流過這裡 。 這就是水 。
but i got to thinking , you know , if we were in the middle of a flood zone in bangladesh , the water wouldn't look like this .	但我想 , 如果我們在孟加拉的洪水區中央 , 水不會像這樣 。
so i've gone and got some stuff to add into it .	所以 , 我做了一些東西來加入它 。
and this is from my pond .	這是我的池塘 。
have a smell of that , mister cameraman .	聞一下 , 攝影師先生 。
we're just going to pour that in there .	我們只會把它倒進去 。
michael pritchard: okay . we've got some runoff from a sewage plant farm .	michaelpritchard:好的 , 我們有一些從污水廠運來的 。
so i'm just going to put that in there .	所以 , 我要把它放進去 。
put that in there . there we go .	把它放進去 , 就這樣 。
and some other bits and pieces , chuck that in there .	其他的碎片和碎片 。
and i've got a gift here from a friend of mine's rabbit .	我這裡有個禮物來自我的朋友的兔子 。
so we're just going to put that in there as well .	我們也要把它放進去 。
the lifesaver bottle works really simply .	救生員的瓶子很簡單 。
you just scoop the water up .	你只是把水往上跑 。
today i'm going to use a jug just to show you all . let's get a bit of that poo in there .	今天我要用一個評斷來給你們看 。 讓我們看看裡面的一些小馬 。
that's not dirty enough . let's just stir that up a little bit .	這還不夠髒 。 讓我們稍微攪拌一下 。
okay , so i'm going to take this really filthy water , and put it in here . do you want a drink yet ?	好 , 我要把這個非常骯髒的水放進這裡 , 你還想喝杯嗎 ?
okay . there we go .	好了 , 開始了 。
give it a few pumps . okay ?	給它一些幫浦 。 好嗎 ?
that's all that's necessary .	那是必要的 。
now as soon as i pop the teat , sterile drinking water is going to come out .	一旦我打開了茶 , 無菌的飲用水就會出現 。
i've got to be quick . okay , ready ?	我得很快 , 準備好了嗎 ?
there we go . mind the electrics .	來了 , 注意一下電 。
that is safe , sterile drinking water .	那是安全、無菌的飲用水 。
there you go chris .	來吧克里斯 。
what's it taste of ?	它有什麼味道 ?
let's see chris's program throughout the rest of the show . okay ?	我們來看看克里斯在其餘的節目 。 好嗎 ?
okay . lifesaver bottle is used by thousands of people around the world .	好 , 世界各地數以千計的人使用了救命瓶 。
it'll last for 6 , 000 liters .	它會維持6 , 000公升 。
and when it's expired , using failsafe technology , the system will shut off , protecting the user .	用失敗的技術 , 系統會關閉 , 保護使用者 。
pop the cartridge out . pop a new one in .	把車禍趕出去 , 打開一個新進去 。
it's good for another 6 , 000 liters .	對6 , 000公升來說是好的 。
so let's look at the applications .	咱們來看看應用程式 。
traditionally , in a crisis , what do we do ?	傳統上 , 在危機中 , 我們該怎麼做 ?
then , after a few weeks , we set up camps .	幾週後 , 我們成立了營地 。
and people are forced to come into the camps to get their safe drinking water .	人們被迫進入營地 , 以取得安全的飲用水 。
what happens when 20 , 000 people congregate in a camp ?	當兩萬人聚集在營地時 , 會發生什麼事 ?
diseases spread . more resources are required .	疾病散播 。 需要更多資源 。
the problem just becomes selfperpetuating .	問題就在於自我繁殖 。
but by thinking differently , and shipping these , people can stay put .	但藉由不同的思考 , 運送這些東西 , 人們可以留在上面 。
they can make their own sterile drinking water , and start to get on with rebuilding their homes and their lives .	他們可以自己製造無菌飲用水 , 開始重建家園和生活 。
now , it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work .	現在 , 這並不需要天然災害才能運作 。
using the old thinking , of national infrastructure and pipe work , is too expensive .	使用舊的想法 , 國家基礎建設和管道工作太貴了 。
when you run the numbers on a calculator , you run out of noughts .	當你在計算機上運算時 , 你就沒有了 。
so here is the " thinking different " bit .	這裡有 「 思考不同 」 的部分 。
instead of shipping water , and using manmade processes to do it , let's use mother nature . she's got a fantastic system .	與其運送水 , 使用人造流程來做 , 讓我們用大自然 。 她有一個很棒的系統 。
she picks the water up from there , desalinates it , for free , transports it over there , and dumps it onto the mountains , rivers , and streams .	她從那裡撿起水 , 免費將水淡化 , 運送到那裡 , 把它丟到山上 , 河流 , 河流 。
and where do people live ? near water .	人們住在哪裡 ? 附近的水 。
all we've go to do is make it sterile . how do we do that ?	我們要做的就是讓它變得無菌 。 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , we could use the lifesaver bottle .	嗯 , 我們可以用救命奶瓶 。
or we could use one of these .	或者我們可以用其中一種 。
the same technology , in a jerry can .	同樣的技術 , 在傑利可以 。
this will process 25 , 000 liters of water ; that's good enough for a family of four , for three years .	這會處理2萬5千公升的水 ; 這足夠給四個家庭 , 三年之久 。
and how much does it cost ?	要花多少錢 ?
about half a cent a day to run .	一天要花半分錢跑 。
so , by thinking differently , and processing water at the point of use , mothers and children no longer have to walk four hours a day to collect their water .	所以 , 透過不同的思考方式 , 在使用的同時 , 母親和孩子們不再需要每天走四個小時來收集他們的水 。
they can get it from a source nearby .	他們可以從附近的來源取得它 。
so with just eight billion dollars , we can hit the millennium goal's target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water .	所以 , 只要花八十億美金 , 我們就能達到千禧目標 , 目標是要在沒有安全飲用水的情況下 , 把人數減少 。
to put that into context , the u . k . government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid .	要把這些數據歸納為背景 , 英國政府每年要花大約一百二十億英鎊在外國援助上 。
but why stop there ?	但為什麼要停在那裡 ?
with 20 billion dollars , everyone can have access to safe drinking water .	有了20億美金 , 每個人都能取得安全飲用水 。
so the threeandahalf billion people that suffer every year as a result , and the two million kids that die every year , will live .	因此 , 每年有三百五十億人遭受苦難 , 每年有兩百萬名兒童死去 , 會活下來 。
paddy ashdown claims that we are living in a moment in history where power is changing in ways it never has before . in a spellbinding talk at tedxbrussels he outlines the three major global shifts that he sees coming .	paddyashown聲稱我們現在生活在歷史上 , 權力正在改變它從來沒有的方式 。 在tedxbrussel的演講中 , 他將他所看到的3大全球轉變排列出來 。
foreign policy , global issues , politics , world cultures	外交政策、全球議題、政治、世界文化、文化、文化、
paddy ashdown: the global power shift	padyashown:全球權力轉移 。
there's a poem written by a very famous english poet at the end of the 19th century .	在19世紀末 , 有一首非常有名的英文詩人寫的詩 。
it was said to echo in churchill's brain in the 1930s .	據說 , 在1930年代 , 教堂的大腦迴響 。
and the poem goes: " on the idle hill of summer , lazy with the flow of streams , hark i hear a distant drummer , drumming like a sound in dreams , far and near and low and louder on the roads of earth go by , dear to friend and food to powder , soldiers marching , soon to die . "	這首詩是: 「 在夏天的伊德爾山丘上 , 帶著溪流的懶惰 , 哈克我聽到一個遙遠的鼓聲 , 像在夢裡的聲音 , 遙遠又低又大聲地在地球的道路上 , 親愛的朋友和食物到粉末 , 士兵遊行 , 很快就死了 。 」
those who are interested in poetry , the poem is " a shropshire lad " written by a . e . housman .	那些對詩感興趣的人 , 這首詩是《shropshirelad》 , 由a.housman所寫 。
but what housman understood , and you hear it in the symphonies of nielsen too , was that the long , hot , silvan summers of stability of the 19th century were coming to a close , and that we were about to move into one of those terrifying periods of history when power changes .	但housman知道的 , 你也聽到尼爾森交響樂中 , 聽到的是19世紀長、炎熱、西爾文夏天的穩定性 , 即將到達一個近距離 , 而當權力改變時 , 我們將要進入一個可怕的時期 。
and these are always periods , ladies and gentlemen , accompanied by turbulence , and all too often by blood .	這些經期 , 各位先生女士 , 經常伴隨著亂流 , 經常被血液吸引 。
and my message for you is that i believe we are condemned , if you like , to live at just one of those moments in history when the gimbals upon which the established order of power is beginning to change and the new look of the world , the new powers that exist in the world , are beginning to take form .	而我要告訴你們的訊息是 , 我相信我們被譴責 , 如果你喜歡 , 生活在歷史上的那些時刻之一 , 那時 , 權力的基礎已經開始改變 , 世界的新力量 , 已經開始形成 。
and these are and we see it very clearly today nearly always highly turbulent times , highly difficult times , and all too often very bloody times .	今天我們很清楚地看到 , 幾乎總是高頻繁、極度困難的時光 , 常常是非常血腥的時代 。
by the way , it happens about once every century .	順便一提 , 它每一世紀都會發生一次 。
you might argue that the last time it happened and that's what housman felt coming and what churchill felt too was that when power passed from the old nations , the old powers of europe , across the atlantic to the new emerging power of the united states of america the beginning of the american century .	你可能會認為 , 最後一次發生了 , 休斯曼的感覺也來了 , 教堂的感覺也一樣 , 當權力從舊國家傳遞時 , 歐洲的舊勢力 , 跨越大西洋 , 到美國新興的力量 , 美國剛開始 。
and of course , into the vacuum where the tooold european powers used to be were played the two bloody catastrophes of the last century the one in the first part and the one in the second part: the two great world wars .	當然 , 在過去的歐洲權力過時的真空中 , 在上個世紀的兩個血腥災難中 , 第一部分和第二部分是:兩次世界大戰 。
mao zedong used to refer to them as the european civil wars , and it's probably a more accurate way of describing them .	毛澤東曾經稱他們為歐洲內戰 , 可能是更正確的描述方式 。
well , ladies and gentlemen , we live at one of those times .	女士們先生們 , 我們生活在其中一次 。
but for us , i want to talk about three factors today .	但對我們來說 , 我今天要談三個因素 。
and the first of these , the first two of these , is about a shift in power .	首先 , 這兩者的前兩項重點是權力的轉變 。
and the second is about some new dimension which i want to refer to , which has never quite happened in the way it's happening now .	第二個是關於一些新的維度我想提一下 , 這從來沒有發生過 。
but let's talk about the shifts of power that are occurring to the world .	但讓我們來談談權力的轉變 , 發生在世界上 。
and what is happening today is , in one sense , frightening because it's never happened before .	今天發生的事 , 在某種意義上 , 很恐怖 , 因為它從來沒有發生過 。
we have seen lateral shifts of power the power of greece passed to rome and the power shifts that occurred during the european civilizations but we are seeing something slightly different .	我們已經看到希臘後來的權力轉移 , 在歐洲文明時期 , 羅馬和權力轉移的力量 , 但我們看到的有點不同 。
for power is not just moving laterally from nation to nation .	權力不只是從國家延續到國家 。
it's also moving vertically .	它的垂直移動 。
what's happening today is that the power that was encased , held to accountability , held to the rule of law , within the institution of the nation state has now migrated in very large measure onto the global stage .	現今正在發生的是 , 被監禁的權力 , 被監禁 , 被監禁在法律的規則上 , 在國家的制度中 , 現在已經大幅地移民到全球舞台上 。
the globalization of power we talk about the globalization of markets , but actually it's the globalization of real power .	我們談到全球化的權力 , 其實是真正的權力 。
and where , at the nation state level that power is held to accountability subject to the rule of law , on the international stage it is not .	在國家的層面 , 權力被迫要負責法律的法則 , 在國際舞台上 , 權力並非如此 。
the international stage and the global stage where power now resides: the power of the internet , the power of the satellite broadcasters , the power of the money changers this vast moneygoround that circulates now 32 times the amount of money necessary for the trade it's supposed to be there to finance the money changers , if you like , the financial speculators that have brought us all to our knees quite recently , the power of the multinational corporations now developing budgets often bigger than mediumsized countries .	國際舞台和全球舞台現在有權力:網際網路的力量、衛星廣播的力量 , 貨幣的力量改變了這個廣大的金錢運輸工具 , 該交易的金額現在是32倍 , 該有金錢可以供應給金錢改變者 , 假如你喜歡 , 金融推測者 , 最近我們都帶給我們所有的財務推動者的力量 , 如今 , 跨國企業的預算能力 , 經常比發展中國家更大 。
these live in a global space which is largely unregulated , not subject to the rule of law , and in which people may act free of constraint .	這些生活在一個幾乎沒有規範的全球空間 , 而非受到法律規範的影響 , 而在這樣的環境下 , 人們可能沒有限制 。
now that suits the powerful up to a moment .	這套裝置強大到一瞬間 。
it's always suitable for those who have the most power to operate in spaces without constraint , but the lesson of history is that , sooner or later , unregulated space space not subject to the rule of law becomes populated , not just by the things you wanted international trade , the internet , etc . but also by the things you don't want international criminality , international terrorism .	總是適合那些在沒有限制的空間中運作最有權力的人 , 但歷史的教訓是 , 很快地 , 沒有規範的空間不受法律規範的影響 , 不只是你想要的國際貿易、網路等等 。 還有你不想要的國際犯罪、國際恐怖主義的事 。
the revelation of 9/11 is that even if you are the most powerful nation on earth , nevertheless , those who inhabit that space can attack you even in your most iconic of cities one bright september morning .	911事件的啟示是 , 即使你是地球上最強大的國家 , 儘管如此 , 那些住在那空間的人 , 甚至可以在九月早上攻擊你最具代表性的城市 。
it's said that something like 60 percent of the four million dollars that was taken to fund 9/11 actually passed through the institutions of the twin towers which 9/11 destroyed .	據說 , 被帶到911事件的四百萬美金中 , 大約有60%通過雙胞胎大樓的機構 , 911事件摧毀了 。
you see , our enemies also use this space the space of mass travel , the internet , satellite broadcasters to be able to get around their poison , which is about destroying our systems and our ways .	我們的敵人也用這個空間 , 大眾旅行、網路、衛星廣播家 , 來繞過毒藥 , 重點在於摧毀我們的系統和我們的方式 。
sooner or later , sooner or later , the rule of history is that where power goes governance must follow .	很快的 , 不久後 , 歷史的規則就是權力統治的目的必須跟隨著 。
and if it is therefore the case , as i believe it is , that one of the phenomenon of our time is the globalization of power , then it follows that one of the challenges of our time is to bring governance to the global space .	所以 , 正如我所說的 , 正如我所說的 , 我們這個時代的一個現象就是全球化的權力 , 那麼我們這個時代所面臨的挑戰之一就是把治理帶到全球空間 。
and i believe that the decades ahead of us now will be to a greater or lesser extent turbulent the more or less we are able to achieve that aim: to bring governance to the global space .	我相信 , 未來的幾十年 , 將會是更大或更少的亂流 , 我們能達成這個目標:把治理帶到全球空間 。
now notice , i'm not talking about government .	注意 , 我不是在說政府 。
i'm not talking about setting up some global democratic institution .	我不是在說建立一些全球民主制度 。
my own view , by the way , ladies and gentlemen , is that this is unlikely to be done by spawning more u . n . institutions .	順帶一提 , 我自己的觀點是 , 女士們先生們 , 女士們 , 女士們 , 不太可能透過擴展聯合國機構來做 。
if we didn't have the u . n . , we'd have to invent it .	如果我們沒有聯合國 , 我們就得發明它 。
the world needs an international forum .	世界需要一個國際論壇 。
it needs a means by which you can legitimize international action .	它需要合法化的國際行動 。
but when it comes to governance of the global space , my guess is this won't happen through the creation of more u . n . institutions .	但 , 談到全球空間的治理 , 我猜 , 這不會發生在聯合國機構的創作中 。
it will actually happen by the powerful coming together and making treatybased systems , treatybased agreements , to govern that global space .	事實上 , 強大的力量會聚集在一起 , 創造出以合約為基礎的系統 , 合約的協議 , 來管理這個全球空間 。
and if you look , you can see them happening , already beginning to emerge .	如果你看 , 你可以看到它們正在發生 , 已經開始出現了 。
the world trade organization: treatybased organization , entirely treatybased , and yet , powerful enough to hold even the most powerful , the united states , to account if necessary .	世界貿易組織:以條約為基礎的組織 , 完全以合約為基礎 , 但 , 強大到能容納最強大的美國 , 如果有必要的話 。
kyoto: the beginnings of struggling to create a treatybased organization .	kyoto:努力創造一個合約的組織的開端 。
the g20: we know now that we have to put together an institution which is capable of bringing governance to that financial space for financial speculation .	g20:我們現在知道 , 我們得要組成一個機構 , 能夠把治理帶到金融空間 , 給金融推測 。
and that's what the g20 is , a treatybased institution .	而這就是g20 , 一個以條約為基礎的機構 。
now there's a problem there , and we'll come back to it in a minute , which is that if you bring the most powerful together to make the rules in treatybased institutions , to fill that governance space , then what happens to the weak who are left out ?	現在有個問題 , 我們等一下會再回來談 , 如果你把最強大的力量聚集在一起 , 以合約為基礎的機構制定規則 , 填補政府的空間 , 那弱者又會怎麼樣 ?
and that's a big problem , and we'll return to it in just a second .	這是個很大的問題 , 我們只要一秒鐘就能回報 。
so there's my first message , that if you are to pass through these turbulent times more or less turbulently , then our success in doing that will in large measure depend on our capacity to bring sensible governance to the global space .	所以 , 我的第一個訊息是 , 如果你要傳遞這些亂流的次數 , 那麼 , 我們的成功程度就大程度上 , 取決於我們的能力 , 把合理的治理帶到全球空間 。
and watch that beginning to happen .	看著這開始發生 。
my second point is , and i know i don't have to talk to an audience like this about such a thing , but power is not just shifting vertically , it's also shifting horizontally .	我的第二點是 , 我知道我不需要和觀眾談談這種事 , 但權力不只是垂直轉移 , 它也在地平線轉移 。
you might argue that the story , the history of civilizations , has been civilizations gathered around seas with the first ones around the mediterranean , the more recent ones in the ascendents of western power around the atlantic .	你可能會認為 , 文明的歷史 , 已經被文明聚集在海洋周圍 , 聚集在地中海 , 最近在西方大西洋的力量中越是近期 。
well it seems to me that we're now seeing a fundamental shift of power , broadly speaking , away from nations gathered around the atlantic [seaboard] to the nations gathered around the pacific rim .	對我來說 , 我們現在看到的是權力的轉變 , 廣泛地說 , 遠離大西洋棋的國家聚集在太平洋邊緣的國家 。
now that begins with economic power , but that's the way it always begins .	這從經濟力量開始 , 但這一直是這樣開始的 。
you already begin to see the development of foreign policies , the augmentation of military budgets occurring in the other growing powers in the world .	你已經開始看到外交政策的發展 , 軍事預算的擴增發生在世界上其他增長的力量 。
i think actually this is not so much a shift from the west to the east ; something different is happening .	我認為 , 其實這不是西方的轉變 , 從東邊轉移到東邊 , 有些不同的事情正在發生 。
my guess is , for what it's worth , is that the united states will remain the most powerful nation on earth for the next 10 years , 15 , but the context in which she holds her power has now radically altered ; it has radically changed .	我的猜測是 , 美國在未來十年、15年 , 仍然是地球上最強大的國家 , 但她握有權力的情境現在已經徹底改變了 , 徹底改變了 。
we are coming out of 50 years , most unusual years , of history in which we have had a totally monopolar world , in which every compass needle for or against has to be referenced by its position to washington a world bestrode by a single colossus .	我們從50年來 , 最不尋常的歷史 , 到目前為止 , 我們有一個完全獨立的世界 , 在這個世界中 , 每個羅馬人所需要或對抗的同理心都必須被它的位置所指示 , 一個由一個巨人所組成的世界中 , 一個最好的世界 。
but that's not a usual case in history .	但這不是歷史上常見的案例 。
in fact , what's now emerging is the much more normal case of history .	事實上 , 現在出現的是更正常的歷史案例 。
you're beginning to see the emergence of a multipolar world .	你開始看到一個多極化的世界的出現 。
up until now , the united states has been the dominant feature of our world .	到目前為止 , 美國一直是我們世界的主流特徵 。
they will remain the most powerful nation , but they will be the most powerful nation in an increasingly multipolar world .	它們會維持最強大的國家 , 但它們會是越來越多極化的世界中最強大的國家 。
and you begin to see the alternative centers of power building up in china , of course , though my own guess is that china's ascent to greatness is not smooth .	你開始看到中國的權力建設中心 , 當然 , 我自己的猜測是中國的高興不是平滑的 。
it's going to be quite grumpy as china begins to democratize her society after liberalizing her economy .	當中國在自由化經濟後 , 將開始民主化她的社會 。
but that's a subject of a different discussion .	但這是另一個討論的主題 。
you see india , you see brazil .	你看到印度 , 巴西 。
you see increasingly that the world now looks actually , for us europeans , much more like europe in the 19th century .	你可以看到這個世界現在看起來 , 對我們歐洲人來說 , 更像19世紀的歐洲人 。
europe in the 19th century: a great british foreign secretary , lord canning , used to describe it as the " european concert of powers . "	十九世紀 , 歐洲 , 一位偉大的英國外交部長 , 總統 , 曾經把它描述為 「 歐洲的權力協會 」 。
there was a balance , a fivesided balance .	有一個平衡 , 一個五面體的平衡 。
britain always played to the balance .	英國總是為了平衡而演奏 。
if paris got together with berlin , britain got together with vienna and rome to provide a counterbalance .	如果巴黎和柏林合作 , 英國和維也納和羅馬合作 , 來提供平衡 。
now notice , in a period which is dominated by a monopolar world , you have fixed alliances nato , the warsaw pact .	請注意 , 在一個由單一世界主導的時期 , 你已經修復了聯盟 , 美國大陸公約組織 。
a fixed polarity of power means fixed alliances .	固定的權力兩極代表固定的盟友 。
but a multiple polarity of power means shifting and changing alliances .	但多重權力的兩極化意味著改變和改變盟友 。
and that's the world we're coming into , in which we will increasingly see that our alliances are not fixed .	這就是我們正在進入的世界 , 我們會漸漸看到我們的聯盟並沒有固定 。
canning , the great british foreign secretary once said , " britain has a common interest , but no common allies . "	坎寧 , 偉大的英國秘書曾說過: 「 英國有共同的利益 , 但沒有共同盟友 。 」
and we will see increasingly that even we in the west will reach out , have to reach out , beyond the cozy circle of the atlantic powers to make alliances with others if we want to get things done in the world .	我們會發現 , 即使我們西方國家會伸出援手 , 還得伸出援手 , 超越大西洋力量的舒適圈 , 來和其他人聯盟 , 如果我們想讓世界上的一切做好 。
note , that when we went into libya , it was not good enough for the west to do it alone ; we had to bring others in .	注意 , 當我們進入利比亞時 , 西方的做法不夠好 ; 我們得要把他人帶進來 。
we had to bring , in this case , the arab league in .	在這個例子中 , 我們得帶入阿拉伯聯盟 。
my guess is iraq and afghanistan are the last times when the west has tried to do it themselves , and we haven't succeeded .	我的猜測是伊拉克和阿富汗是西方試圖自己做這件事的最後一次 , 我們還沒成功 。
my guess is that we're reaching the beginning of the end of 400 years i say 400 years because it's the end of the ottoman empire of the hegemony of western power , western institutions and western values .	我的猜測是400年底我說這是奧圖曼帝國結束西方勢力、西方制度和西方價值觀的終結
you know , up until now , if the west got its act together , it could propose and dispose in every corner of the world .	你知道 , 直到現在 , 如果西方國家團結起來 , 它可以在世界的各個角落提出並消除 。
but that's no longer true .	但這已經不是事實了 。
take the last financial crisis after the second world war .	以第二次世界大戰後最後的金融危機為例 。
the west got together the bretton woods institution , world bank , international monetary fund the problem solved .	西方國家聚集了布雷頓森林機構 , 世界銀行 , 國際貨幣基金會 , 解決了問題 。
now we have to call in others .	現在我們必須打電話給別人 。
now we have to create the g20 .	現在我們必須創造g20 。
now we have to reach beyond the cozy circle of our western friends .	現在我們要超越西方朋友的舒適圈 。
let me make a prediction for you , which is probably even more startling .	讓我為各位做個預測 , 這可能更令人驚訝 。
i suspect we are now reaching the end of 400 years when western power was enough .	我猜我們現在已經到了400年了 , 西方勢力已經足夠了 。
people say to me , " the chinese , of course , they'll never get themselves involved in peacemaking , multilateral peacemaking around the world . "	人們對我說: 「 中國人 , 當然 , 他們永遠不會參與到和平協調 , 全世界的多邊和平調停 。 」
oh yes ? why not ?	喔 ? 為什麼不呢 ?
how many chinese troops are serving under the blue beret , serving under the blue flag , serving under the u . n . command in the world today ?	有多少中國軍隊在藍色的貝雷特下服役 , 在藍旗下服役 , 在聯合國指揮下服役 ?
how many americans ? 11 .	有多少美國人 ? 11 。
what is the largest naval contingent tackling the issue of somali pirates ?	什麼是最大的海軍陸戰隊處理索馬利海盜議題 ?
the chinese naval contingent .	中國海軍總裁 。
of course they are , they are a mercantilist nation .	當然 , 他們是商業化的國家 。
they want to keep the sea lanes open .	他們想要保持海道開放 。
increasingly , we are going to have to do business with people with whom we do not share values , but with whom , for the moment , we share common interests .	漸漸地 , 我們得要和那些沒有共享價值的人做生意 , 但 , 在當下 , 我們有共同的利益 。
it's a whole new different way of looking at the world that is now emerging .	這是一種全新的看世界的方式 , 正在興起 。
and here's the third factor , which is totally different .	第三個因素 , 完全不同 。
today in our modern world , because of the internet , because of the kinds of things people have been talking about here , everything is connected to everything .	現今 , 在我們的現代世界裡 , 由於網路 , 因為人們在這裡所談論的東西 , 所有東西都和一切連結在一起 。
we are now interdependent .	我們現在是互相依賴的 。
we are now interlocked , as nations , as individuals , in a way which has never been the case before , never been the case before .	我們現在是相互關聯的 , 作為一個國家 , 作為個體 , 在某種程度上從來沒有發生過 , 從來沒有發生過 。
the interrelationship of nations , well it's always existed .	國家的相互關係 , 總是存在 。
diplomacy is about managing the interrelationship of nations .	外交是要管理國家的相互關係 。
but now we are intimately locked together .	但現在我們密切關在一起 。
you get swine flu in mexico , it's a problem for charles de gaulle airport 24 hours later .	你在墨西哥得到豬流感 , 二十四小時後查爾斯德高爾機場的問題 。
lehman brothers goes down , the whole lot collapses .	雷曼兄弟會下降 , 很多崩潰 。
there are fires in the steppes of russia , food riots in africa .	俄羅斯的步伐中有火災 , 非洲的食物暴動 。
we are all now deeply , deeply , deeply interconnected .	我們現在都深切、深切地相互連結 。
and what that means is the idea of a nation state acting alone , not connected with others , not working with others , is no longer a viable proposition .	這意味著 , 一個國家單獨行動 , 和他人連結 , 而不是和他人合作 , 不再是一個可行的提案 。
because the actions of a nation state are neither confined to itself , nor is it sufficient for the nation state itself to control its own territory , because the effects outside the nation state are now beginning to affect what happens inside them .	因為國家的動作既不被限制 , 也不足以控制國家本身 , 來控制自己的領土 , 因為國家之外的影響已經開始影響他們 。
i was a young soldier in the last of the small empire wars of britain .	我是英國帝國戰爭的年輕士兵 。
at that time , the defense of my country was about one thing and one thing only: how strong was our army , how strong was our air force , how strong was our navy and how strong were our allies .	那時 , 我國家的辯護是一件事 , 只有一件事:我們的軍隊有多堅強 , 我們的空軍有多強大 , 我們的海軍有多強 , 我們的盟友有多強壯 。
that was when the enemy was outside the walls .	那是敵人在牆外的時候 。
now the enemy is inside the walls .	敵人在牆壁裡 。
now if i want to talk about the defense of my country , i have to speak to the minister of health because pandemic disease is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of agriculture because food security is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of industry because the fragility of our hitech infrastructure is now a point of attack for our enemies as we see from cyber warfare i have to speak to the minister of home affairs because who has entered my country , who lives in that terraced house in that inner city has a direct effect on what happens in my country as we in london saw in the 7/7 bombings .	現在 , 如果我想要談談我國家的防禦 , 我得要和健康部談談 , 因為流行病對我的安全是威脅 , 我得要和農業部談談 , 因為食物安全是對我安全的威脅 , 我得要和產業的部長談談談 , 因為 , 我們希臘基礎建設的脆弱是對我們的敵人 , 從網路戰爭到我所見到的敵人 , 因為在我國家的房子裡 , 我們的家裡 , 已經有7個衝擊 , 因為在我的家裡 , 和7個房子裡 , 和7個房子裡 , 和7個房子裡的房子裡的家裡的家裡的家裡 , 和7個房子 。
it's no longer the case that the security of a country is simply a matter for its soldiers and its ministry of defense .	不再是國家的安全對其士兵和國防部而言 , 不再是問題 。
it's its capacity to lock together its institutions .	它是鎖定其制度的能力 。
and this tells you something very important .	這告訴你們一件非常重要的事 。
it tells you that , in fact , our governments , vertically constructed , constructed on the economic model of the industrial revolution vertical hierarchy , specialization of tasks , command structures have got the wrong structures completely .	它告訴你 , 事實上 , 我們的政府 , 垂直建構 , 建立在工業革命的經濟模式上 , 垂直的階級制度 , 專業任務 , 指揮結構完全錯了 。
you in business know that the paradigm structure of our time , ladies and gentlemen , is the network .	在商業界你知道我們這個時代的典範結構 , 各位先生女士 , 是網路 。
it's your capacity to network that matters , both within your governments and externally .	你的網絡能力很重要 , 包括在你的政府和外在 。
so here is ashdown's third law .	這是阿什丹的第三法律 。
by the way , don't ask me about ashdown's first law and second law because i haven't invented those yet ; it always sounds better if there's a third law , doesn't it ?	順道一提 , 不要問我 「 崩解 」 的第一個法律和第二定律 , 因為我還沒發明這些法律 ; 如果有第三條法律的話 , 聽起來比較好 , 對吧 ?
ashdown's third law is that in the modern age , where everything is connected to everything , the most important thing about what you can do is what you can do with others .	第三條法則是 , 在現代的時代 , 一切都和一切有關 , 最重要的事是你能做的 , 就是你能和他人做的事 。
the most important bit about your structure whether you're a government , whether you're an army regiment , whether you're a business is your docking points , your interconnectors , your capacity to network with others .	最重要的一點是 , 不論你是政府 , 不論你是軍隊註冊 , 不論你是企業 , 你的間接點 , 你和他人建立網路的能力 。
you understand that in industry ; governments don't .	你明白這一點 , 在工業上 , 政府不是 。
but now one final thing .	但最後一件事情 。
if it is the case , ladies and gentlemen and it is that we are now locked together in a way that has never been quite the same before , then it's also the case that we share a destiny with each other .	如果是這樣 , 各位先生女士 , 我們現在被困在一種以前從來沒有相同的情況下 , 那也是我們彼此共同的命運 。
suddenly and for the very first time , collective defense , the thing that has dominated us as the concept of securing our nations , is no longer enough .	突然間 , 也是第一次 , 集體防禦 , 主導我們 , 作為國家安全的概念 , 已經不夠了 。
it used to be the case that if my tribe was more powerful than their tribe , i was safe ; if my country was more powerful than their country , i was safe ; my alliance , like nato , was more powerful than their alliance , i was safe .	過去 , 如果我的部落比他們的部落更強大 , 我是安全的 ; 如果我的國家比他們的國家更強大 , 我是安全的 ; 我的盟友 , 像是納多 , 比他們的盟友更強大 , 我是安全的 。
it is no longer the case .	現在不再是這樣了 。
the advent of the interconnectedness and of the weapons of mass destruction means that , increasingly , i share a destiny with my enemy .	相互關聯和大規模毀滅性武器的出現 , 意味著 , 漸漸地 , 我和敵人分享了命運 。
when i was a diplomat negotiating the disarmament treaties with the soviet union in geneva in the 1970s , we succeeded because we understood we shared a destiny with them .	當我是外交官 , 在1970年代 , 我和日內瓦的蘇聯協定談判 , 我們成功了 , 因為我們了解我們和他們分享了命運 。
collective security is not enough .	集體安全不夠 。
peace has come to northern ireland because both sides realized that the zerosum game couldn't work .	和平來到北愛爾蘭 , 因為兩方都知道 , 零和遊戲無法運作 。
they shared a destiny with their enemies .	他們和敵人共享命運 。
one of the great barriers to peace in the middle east is that both sides , both israel and , i think , the palestinians , do not understand that they share a collective destiny .	中東和平的大障礙之一是以色列 , 我認為巴勒斯坦人並不了解他們有共同的命運 。
and so suddenly , ladies and gentlemen , what has been the proposition of visionaries and poets down the ages becomes something we have to take seriously as a matter of public policy .	所以 , 女士們先生們 , 過去的願景和詩人提出 , 我們必須認真看待公共政策 。
i started with a poem , i'll end with one .	我從一首詩開始 , 以一首詩為結尾 。
the great poem of john donne's .	約翰•唐妮的偉大詩 。
" send not for whom the bell tolls . "	「 送給鐘聲的誰 。 」
the poem is called " no man is an island . "	這首詩叫做 「 沒有人是島嶼 。 」
and it goes: " every man's death affected me , for i am involved in mankind , send not to ask for whom the bell tolls , it tolls for thee . "	內容是: 「 每個人的死亡都會影響我 , 因為我參與的人 , 不要去問鐘聲 , 要為你賺錢 。 」
for john donne , a recommendation of morality .	對於約翰•唐納 , 道德的建議 。
for us , i think , part of the equation for our survival .	對我們來說 , 我認為 , 我們生存的方程式之一 。
to find the path to long life and health , dan buettner and team study the world's " blue zones , " communities whose elders live with vim and vigor to recordsetting age . at tedxtc , he shares the 9 common diet and lifestyle habits that keep them spry past age 100 .	為了找到長壽、健康、丹•布雷特納和團隊 , 研究世界的 「 藍色區 」 , 他們的長者和vim一起生活 , 在tedxtc記錄年齡 。 他分享了九項常見的飲食和生活習慣 , 讓他們能在一百歲時流產 。
biology , culture , exploration , food , health , life , science	生物、文化、探索、食物、健康、生命、科學、科學、科學、科學、
dan buettner: how to live to be 100+	danbuettner:如何活到100+ ?
something called the danish twin study established that only about 10 percent of how long the average person lives , within certain biological limits , is dictated by our genes .	丹麥雙胞胎研究指出 , 在某些生物限制下 , 平均人的壽命只有百分之十 , 是由我們的基因來決定 。
the other 90 percent is dictated by our lifestyle .	另外百分之九十是由我們的生活方式所主宰 。
so the premise of blue zones: if we can find the optimal lifestyle of longevity we can come up with a de facto formula for longevity .	所以藍色區塊的前提是:如果我們能找到長壽的最佳生活方式 , 我們就能想出一個真正的公式來長壽 。
but if you ask the average american what the optimal formula of longevity is , they probably couldn't tell you .	但如果你問一般的美國人長壽的最佳公式是什麼 , 他們可能不會告訴你 。
they've probably heard of the south beach diet , or the atkins diet .	他們可能聽過南海灘飲食 , 或墨水飲食 。
you have the usda food pyramid .	你有美國食品金字塔 。
there is what oprah tells us .	歐普拉告訴我們 。
there is what doctor oz tells us .	奧茲醫生告訴我們 ,
the fact of the matter is there is a lot of confusion around what really helps us live longer better .	事實是 , 對於真正能讓我們活得更好的事物 , 有很多疑惑 。
should you be running marathons or doing yoga ?	你應該跑馬拉松還是做瑜伽 ?
should you eat organic meats or should you be eating tofu ?	你應該吃有機肉還是吃豆腐 ?
when it comes to supplements , should you be taking them ?	談到補給品時 , 你應該拿它們嗎 ?
how about these hormones or resveratrol ?	那麼這些荷爾蒙又或者逆流呢 ?
and does purpose play into it ?	是否有目的呢 ?
spirituality ? and how about how we socialize ?	靈性 ? 那我們如何社交呢 ?
well , our approach to finding longevity was to team up with national geographic , and the national institute on aging , to find the four demographically confirmed areas that are geographically defined .	我們找到長壽的方法是和國家地理研究所合作 , 國家老化研究所 , 找出四個人口統計的地區 , 地理學定義的區域 。
and then bring a team of experts in there to methodically go through exactly what these people do , to distill down the crosscultural distillation .	接著 , 帶一組專家到那裡 , 來調查這些人的行為 , 來調查跨文化的陳述 。
and at the end of this i'm going to tell you what that distillation is .	最後 , 我要告訴你們那段陳述是甚麼 。
but first i'd like to debunk some common myths when it comes to longevity .	但 , 首先 , 我想要破除一些常見的迷思 , 談到長壽 。
and the first myth is if you try really hard you can live to be 100 .	第一個迷思是 , 如果你真的很努力 , 你就能活到100歲 。
the problem is , only about one out of 5 , 000 people in america live to be 100 .	問題是 , 美國大約有五千人當中只有一人活到一百歲 。
your chances are very low .	你的機率很低 。
even though it's the fastest growing demographic in america , it's hard to reach 100 .	即使在美國 , 人口成長最快 , 還是很難達到100 。
the problem is that we're not programmed for longevity .	問題是 , 我們不是為了長壽而編寫的 。
we are programmed for something called procreative success .	我們為所謂的 「 繁榮成功 」 計畫 。
i love that word .	我喜歡這個詞 。
it reminds me of my college days .	它讓我想起大學的日子 。
biologists term procreative success to mean the age where you have children and then another generation , the age when your children have children .	生物學家稱之為 「 繁衍成功 」 , 意思是 「 你有孩子的年齡 」 , 接著是 「 下一代 」 , 「 孩子的年齡 」 。
after that the effect of evolution completely dissipates .	在那之後 , 演化的效應完全消失了 。
if you're a mammal , if you're a rat or an elephant , or a human , in between , it's the same story .	如果你是哺乳動物 , 如果你是老鼠或大象 , 或人 , 在兩者之間 , 則是相同的故事 。
so to make it to age 100 , you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle , you also have to have won the genetic lottery .	所以 , 要做到一百歲 , 你不僅要有很好的生活方式 , 你還得贏得基因彩票 。
the second myth is , there are treatments that can help slow , reverse , or even stop aging .	第二個迷思是 , 有治療可以減緩、逆轉 , 甚至阻止老化 。
when you think of it , there is 99 things that can age us .	想想看 , 我們有99件事情可以讓我們變老 。
deprive your brain of oxygen for just a few minutes , those brain cells die , they never come back .	只要幾分鐘 , 那些腦細胞就會死亡 , 它們就不會回來了 。
play tennis too hard , on your knees , ruin your cartilage , the cartilage never comes back .	打網球太硬 , 在膝蓋上 , 磨損軟骨 , 軟骨永遠不會回來 。
our arteries can clog . our brains can gunk up with plaque , and we can get alzheimer's .	我們的動脈可以堵塞 。 我們的大腦可以用白斑連結起來 , 我們可以得到阿茲海默症 。
there is just too many things to go wrong .	有太多事情要出錯了 。
our bodies have 35 trillion cells , trillion with a " t . " we're talking national debt numbers here .	我們的身體有35兆個細胞 , 用的是t 。 我們在這裡談的是國家債務數字 。
those cells turn themselves over once every eight years .	那些細胞每八年一次就轉一次 。
and every time they turn themselves over there is some damage . and that damage builds up .	每次他們轉到那裡 , 就會有一些損害 , 造成損害 。
and it builds up exponentially .	它以指數型的方式成長 。
it's a little bit like the days when we all had beatles albums or eagles albums and we'd make a copy of that on a cassette tape , and let our friends copy that cassette tape , and pretty soon , with successive generations that tape sounds like garbage .	有點像是當我們有披頭四的專輯或老鷹的專輯時 , 我們會在錄音帶上複製 , 讓朋友們複製錄錄錄錄錄音帶 , 很快地 , 錄音帶的成功世代聽起來像垃圾 。
well , the same things happen to our cells .	同樣的事也發生在我們的細胞上 。
that's why a 65yearold person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12yearold person .	這就是為什麼一個65歲的人老化速度比一個12歲的人快了125倍 。
so , if there is nothing you can do to slow your aging or stop your aging , what am i doing here ?	所以 , 如果你沒有辦法減緩老化或阻止老化 , 我在這裡做什麼 ?
well , the fact of the matter is the best science tells us that the capacity of the human body , my body , your body , is about 90 years , a little bit more for women .	嗯 , 事實上 , 最好的科學告訴我們 , 人體的能力 , 我的身體 , 你的身體 , 大約是90年 , 對女人來說 , 再多一點 。
but life expectancy in this country is only 78 .	但在這個國家 , 平均壽命只有78 。
so somewhere along the line , we're leaving about 12 good years on the table .	在這條線上 , 我們離開了大約12年的美好時光 。
these are years that we could get .	這些年來我們都可以做到 。
and research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease , heart disease , cancer and diabetes .	研究顯示 , 長期疾病、心臟病、癌症和糖尿病 , 絕大部分時間都不會有慢性病、心臟病、癌症、糖尿病 。
we think the best way to get these missing years is to look at the cultures around the world that are actually experiencing them , areas where people are living to age 100 at rates up to 10 times greater than we are , areas where the life expectancy is an extra dozen years , the rate of middle age mortality is a fraction of what it is in this country .	我們認為 , 要消失這些年齡最好的方法就是去看世界各地的文化 , 實際上正在經歷他們的文化 , 那裡的人比我們年齡100歲 , 比我們多出十倍 , 預期壽命是十幾年 , 中年的死亡率是這個國家的一小部分 。
we found our first blue zone about 125 miles off the coast of italy , on the island of sardinia .	我們在義大利海岸找到第一條藍色區大約有125英里 , 在薩丁尼亞島上 。
and not the entire island , the island is about 1 . 4 million people , but only up in the highlands , an area called the nuoro province .	不是整個島嶼 , 島嶼大約有140萬人 , 但只有在高地 , 一個叫做nuoro省的區域 。
and here we have this area where men live the longest , about 10 times more centenarians than we have here in america .	這裡我們有這個區域 , 男人的壽命最長 , 大約比美國這裡的百歲人多十倍 。
and this is a place where people not only reach age 100 , they do so with extraordinary vigor .	這個地方 , 人們不只達到100歲 , 他們還用非凡的vigor來做這件事 。
places where 102 year olds still ride their bike to work , chop wood , and can beat a guy 60 years younger than them .	在那裡 , 102歲的老人仍然騎腳踏車去工作 , 蕭條木 , 打敗比他們年輕60歲的人 。
their history actually goes back to about the time of christ .	他們的歷史回溯到基督的時代 。
it's actually a bronze age culture that's been isolated .	它其實是一個被隔離的銅時代文化 。
because the land is so infertile , they largely are shepherds , which occasions regular , lowintensity physical activity .	因為這塊土地很不具侵蝕性 , 大多是牧羊人 , 偶爾 , 較弱的身體活動 。
their diet is mostly plantbased , accentuated with foods that they can carry into the fields .	他們的飲食主要是以植物為基礎 , 以它們能帶進田野的食物為中心 。
they came up with an unleavened whole wheat bread called carta musica made out of durum wheat , a type of cheese made from grassfed animals so the cheese is high in omega3 fatty acids instead of omega6 fatty acids from cornfed animals , and a type of wine that has three times the level of polyphenols than any known wine in the world .	他們想出了一堆未發酵的小麥麵包 , 叫做卡塔音樂麵包 , 由草食動物製成的一種乳酪 , 乳酪在omega-3脂肪酸中很高 , 而不是omega-6脂肪酸 , 來自玉米餵養的動物 , 還有一種葡萄酒 , 比世界上任何葡萄酒都要高三倍 。
but the real secret i think lies more in the way that they organize their society .	但真正的秘密在於他們組織社會的方式 。
and one of the most salient elements of the sardinian society is how they treat older people .	薩丁尼亞社會中最重要的元素之一就是他們對待老年人的方式 。
you ever notice here in america , social equity seems to peak at about age 24 ?	你有沒有注意到在美國 , 社會平等似乎在24歲時達到高峰 ?
just look at the advertisements .	看看廣告 。
here in sardinia , the older you get the more equity you have , the more wisdom you're celebrated for .	在薩丁尼亞 , 你得到的越多平等 , 你就越有智慧 。
you go into the bars in sardinia , instead of seeing the sports illustrated swimsuit calendar , you see the centenarian of the month calendar .	你走進薩丁尼亞的酒吧 , 而不是看到運動畫面上的游泳日曆 , 你看到月曆的百歲人 。
this , as it turns out , is not only good for your aging parents to keep them close to the family it imparts about four to six years of extra life expectancy research shows it's also good for the children of those families , who have lower rates of mortality and lower rates of disease .	事實證明 , 這不僅對你的老父母親有好處 , 要讓他們和家人親近 , 預期壽命約四到六年的研究顯示 , 對那些家庭的孩子而言 , 死亡率也比較低 , 疾病的比率也比較低 。
that's called the grandmother effect .	這叫做祖母效應 。
we found our second blue zone on the other side of the planet , about 800 miles south of tokyo , on the archipelago of okinawa .	我們在地球的另一端發現了第二個藍色區塊 , 位於東京南部大約800英里 , 位於okinawa的阿奇拉群島 。
okinawa is actually 161 small islands .	okinawa其實是161個小島 。
and in the northern part of the main island , this is ground zero for world longevity .	在主島的北部 , 這是世界長壽的零地 。
this is a place where the oldest living female population is found .	這是一個最古老的女性族群被發現的地方 。
it's a place where people have the longest disabilityfree life expectancy in the world .	在那裡 , 人們有世界上最長的殘疾壽命 。
they have what we want .	他們有我們想要的 。
they live a long time , and tend to die in their sleep , very quickly , and often , i can tell you , after sex .	牠們活了很久 , 通常會在牠們的睡眠中死亡 , 很快 , 通常 , 我可以告訴你 , 在性愛之後 。
they live about seven good years longer than the average american .	他們的壽命比美國人多了七年 。
five times as many centenarians as we have in america .	我們在美國有五倍的百歲人 。
one fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer , big killers here in america .	美國有五分之一的殖民地和乳癌 , 大型殺手 。
and one sixth the rate of cardiovascular disease .	心血管疾病的前六分之一 。
and the fact that this culture has yielded these numbers suggests strongly they have something to teach us .	事實上 , 這種文化已經證實了這些數字 , 表示他們有強烈的教導力 。
what do they do ?	他們會怎麼做 ?
once again , a plantbased diet , full of vegetables with lots of color in them .	再一次 , 以植物為基礎的飲食 , 裡面有許多顏色的蔬菜 。
and they eat about eight times as much tofu as americans do .	美國人吃大約八倍的豆腐 。
more significant than what they eat is how they eat it .	比他們吃的東西更重要 。
they have all kinds of little strategies to keep from overeating , which , as you know , is a big problem here in america .	他們有各式各樣的小策略來避免過量 , 如你所知 , 這在美國是個大問題 。
a few of the strategies we observed: they eat off of smaller plates , so they tend to eat fewer calories at every sitting .	我們觀察到的一些策略:牠們吃掉較小的盤子 , 所以牠們通常在每一隻坐下的熱量都比較少 。
instead of serving family style , where you can sort of mindlessly eat as you're talking , they serve at the counter , put the food away , and then bring it to the table .	與其服務家庭風格 , 在談話時 , 你可以無心地吃東西 , 他們在櫃台上 , 把食物拿走 , 然後把它送到桌子上 。
they also have a 3 , 000yearold adage , which i think is the greatest sort of diet suggestion ever invented .	他們還有3000歲的年紀 , 我認為這是史上最偉大的飲食建議 。
it was invented by confucius .	它是由混合物所發明的 。
and that diet is known as the hara , hatchi , bu diet .	這種飲食被稱為 「 哈拉 , 哈特 , 哈特 , 飲食 。 」
it's simply a little saying these people say before their meal to remind them to stop eating when their stomach is [80] percent full .	簡單來說 , 這些人在吃飯之前說 , 要提醒他們不要再吃東西 , 因為他們的胃是80% 。
it takes about a half hour for that full feeling to travel from your belly to your brain .	要花上半小時才能從肚子傳到大腦 。
and by remembering to stop at 80 percent it helps keep you from doing that very thing .	記住 , 要在80%停止 , 它能協助你避免做這件事 。
but , like sardinia , okinawa has a few social constructs that we can associate with longevity .	但 , 就像薩丁尼亞一樣 , okinawa有一些社會結構 , 我們可以把長壽聯結在一起 。
we know that isolation kills .	我們知道隔離會致命 。
fifteen years ago , the average american had three good friends .	15年前 , 美國人平均有三個好朋友 。
we're down to one and half right now .	我們現在已經下降到一半了 。
if you were lucky enough to be born in okinawa , you were born into a system where you automatically have a half a dozen friends with whom you travel through life .	如果你夠幸運 , 生在okinawa , 你就生在一個系統裡 , 你自動自動就有一半的朋友陪伴你人生 。
they call it a moai . and if you're in a moai you're expected to share the bounty if you encounter luck , and if things go bad , child gets sick , parent dies , you always have somebody who has your back .	他們稱它為moai 。 如果你在moai中 , 你被期待要分享這個機會 , 如果你幸運的話 , 孩子生病了 , 父母死了 , 你總是會有一個有你的背 。
this particular moai , these five ladies have been together for 97 years .	這位特殊的moai女士 , 這五位女士已經在一起了97年 。
their average age is 102 .	他們的平均年齡是102歲 。
typically in america we've divided our adult life up into two sections .	通常在美國 , 我們把成人的生活分成兩部分 。
there is our work life , where we're productive .	我們的工作生活 , 我們有生產力 。
and then one day , boom , we retire .	然後有一天 , 我們退休了 。
and typically that has meant retiring to the easy chair , or going down to arizona to play golf .	通常這意味著退休給簡單的椅子 , 或是去亞利桑那州打高爾夫球 。
in the okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement .	在okinawan語中 , 甚至沒有退休的詞語 。
instead there is one word that imbues your entire life , and that word is " ikigai . "	取而代之的是 , 整個人生都會有一個字 , 這個字是 「 ikigai 」 。
and , roughly translated , it means " the reason for which you wake up in the morning . "	大約翻譯了 , 意思是 「 你早上醒來的原因 」 。
for this 102yearold karate master , his ikigai was carrying forth this martial art .	對這位102歲的karatester來說 , 他的ikigai正攜帶著這件軍事藝術 。
for this hundredyearold fisherman it was continuing to catch fish for his family three times a week .	對這位百歲的漁夫來說 , 每週要捕魚三次 。
and this is a question . the national institute on aging actually gave us a questionnaire to give these centenarians .	這是個問題 。 國家老化研究所給了我們一個問卷 , 給這些百歲人 。
and one of the questions , they were very culturally astute , the people who put the questionnaire .	其中一個問題 , 他們是非常文化上的直覺 , 那些提出了問卷的人 。
one of the questions was , " what is your ikigai ? "	其中一個問題是: 「 你的ikigai是什麼 ? 」
they instantly knew why they woke up in the morning .	他們馬上就知道為什麼早上起床 。
for this 102 year old woman , her ikigai was simply her greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	對這位102歲的老婦人而言 , 她的ikigai只是她的曾曾曾曾曾曾曾孫女 。
two girls separated in age by 101 and a half years .	兩位女孩在101年半之間分開 。
and i asked her what it felt like to hold a greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	我問她 , 是什麼樣的感覺 , 可以保持一個曾曾曾曾孫女的感覺 。
and she put her head back and she said , " it feels like leaping into heaven . "	她回頭說: 「 感覺就像跳入天堂 。 」
i thought that was a wonderful thought .	我覺得這是個很棒的想法 。
my editor at geographic wanted me to find america's blue zone .	我的地理編輯希望我找到美國的藍色區域 。
and for a while we looked on the prairies of minnesota , where actually there is a very high proportion of centenarians .	有一陣子 , 我們研究明尼蘇達的草原 , 那裡其實有很高比例的百歲人 。
but that's because all the young people left .	但那是因為所有年輕人都離開了 。
so , we turned to the data again .	所以 , 我們再轉向數據 。
and we found america's longestlived population among the seventhday adventists concentrated in and around loma linda , california .	我們發現美國最長壽的人口 , 在加州的第七天冒險家中 , 都集中在洛馬林達 。
adventists are conservative methodists .	先進主義者是保守主義者 。
they celebrate their sabbath from sunset on friday till sunset on saturday .	他們在星期五日落慶祝他們的休息日 , 星期五日落 。
a " 24hour sanctuary in time , " they call it .	一個 「 時間24小時的庇護所 」 , 他們稱之為 。
and they follow five little habits that conveys to them extraordinary longevity , comparatively speaking .	相較之下 , 他們遵循了五個小習慣 。
in america here , life expectancy for the average woman is 80 .	在美國 , 平均女性平均壽命是八十歲 。
but for an adventist woman , their life expectancy is 89 .	但對於一位先進主義的女性來說 , 他們的平均壽命是89 。
and the difference is even more pronounced among men , who are expected to live about 11 years longer than their american counterparts .	不同之處在於男性之間 , 比美國人多出11年的預期壽命 。
now , this is a study that followed about 70 , 000 people for 30 years .	這個研究追蹤了大約七萬人三十年 。
sterling study . and i think it supremely illustrates the premise of this blue zone project .	史特林研究 。 我認為它最能說明這個藍色區域計畫的前提 。
this is a heterogeneous community .	這是一個異性戀的社群 。
it's white , black , hispanic , asian .	它是白色、黑色、西班牙裔、亞洲 。
the only thing that they have in common are a set of very small lifestyle habits that they follow ritualistically for most of their lives .	他們唯一的共通點是一組非常小的生活習慣 , 他們大部分時間都遵循著儀式的生活 。
they take their diet directly from the bible .	他們直接從聖經取得飲食 。
genesis: chapter one , verse [29] , where god talks about legumes and seeds , and on one more stanza about green plants , ostensibly missing is meat .	基因:第一章 , 詩句是29種 。 上帝談到傳承和種子 , 再談談綠色植物 , 顯然缺少的是肉 。
they take this sanctuary in time very serious .	他們非常認真地看待這個庇護所 。
for 24 hours every week , no matter how busy they are , how stressed out they are at work , where the kids need to be driven , they stop everything and they focus on their god , their social network , and then , hardwired right in the religion , are nature walks .	每週24小時 , 不論他們多忙 , 工作壓力多大 , 孩子們需要開車 , 他們會停止一切 , 專注在神、社交網路上 , 然後 , 在宗教中 , 天生會走路 。
and the power of this is not that it's done occasionally , the power is it's done every week for a lifetime .	它的力量並不是偶爾完成的 , 它的力量是每週都完成一次 。
none of it's hard . none of it costs money .	沒有任何一個很難 。 沒有一個花費 。
adventists also tend to hang out with other adventists .	冒險家也傾向和其他冒險家在一起 。
so , if you go to an adventist's party you don't see people swilling jim beam or rolling a joint .	所以 , 如果你去參加一場冒險家派對 , 你不會看到有人在搖吉姆姆姆姆光燈或捲起一個關節 。
instead they're talking about their next nature walk , exchanging recipes , and yes , they pray .	相反地 , 他們在談論他們的下一個自然步行 , 交換食譜 , 是的 , 他們祈禱 。
but they influence each other in profound and measurable ways .	但它們會以深刻且可測量的方式互相影響 。
this is a culture that has yielded ellsworth whareham .	這個文化讓埃爾斯•沃爾斯•沃爾斯•沃爾斯感到羞恥 。
ellsworth whareham is 97 years old .	ellswharem97歲
he's a multimillionaire , yet when a contractor wanted 6 , 000 dollars to build a privacy fence , he said , " for that kind of money i'll do it myself . "	他是數百萬富翁 , 但當包商想要六千美元去建立隱私的圍籬時 , 他說: 「 為了我自己做得到的那一筆錢 。 」
so for the next three days he was out shoveling cement , and hauling poles around .	所以在接下來的三天裡 , 他出去打擊水泥 , 四處晃動 。
and predictably , perhaps , on the fourth day he ended up in the operating room .	可想而知 , 也許在第四天 , 他最後到達手術室 。
but not as the guy on the table ; the guy doing openheart surgery .	但不像桌上的那個人 , 做開心手術的人 。
at 97 he still does 20 openheart surgeries every month .	九十七歲時 , 他每個月仍然做了二十次開心手術 。
ed rawlings , 103 years old now , an active cowboy , starts his morning with a swim .	艾德.羅林斯 , 103歲 , 一個活躍的牛仔 , 早上就開始了游泳 。
and on weekends he likes to put on the boards , throw up rooster tails .	在週末 , 他喜歡戴上板子 , 扔出羅斯特尾巴 。
her grandson actually lives in the twin cities here .	她的孫子其實住在這兩個城市裡 。
she starts her day with lifting weights .	她從她的日子開始 , 帶著升重 。
she rides her bicycle .	她騎著腳踏車 。
and then she gets in her rootbeer colored 1994 cadillac seville , and tears down the san bernardino freeway , where she still volunteers for seven different organizations .	接著 , 她走進她的根部 , 1994年的卡迪拉克賽維爾 , 撕下聖伯納多高速公路 , 在那裡 , 她仍然自願參與七個不同的組織 。
i've been on 19 hardcore expeditions .	我去過19次艱難的探險 。
i'm probably the only person you'll ever meet who rode his bicycle across the sahara desert without sunscreen .	我可能是你遇見唯一一個騎腳踏車的人 , 穿越撒哈拉沙漠 , 沒有防曬霜 。
but i'll tell you , there is no adventure more harrowing than riding shotgun with marge deton .	但我要告訴各位 , 沒有冒險 , 比起在華盛頓特區開槍更駭人 。
" a stranger is a friend i haven't met yet ! " she'd say to me .	「 陌生人是我還沒見過的朋友 ! 」 她會對我說 。
so , what are the common denominators in these three cultures ?	那麼 , 這三種文化中的共通點是什麼 ?
what are the things that they all do ?	他們所做的事是什麼 ?
and we managed to boil it down to nine .	我們成功歸結為九個 。
in fact we've done two more blue zone expeditions since this and these common denominators hold true .	事實上 , 我們已經做過兩次藍色藍色的探險 , 這些共同的探險人員確實是如此 。
and the first one , and i'm about to utter a heresy here , none of them exercise , at least the way we think of exercise .	首先 , 我將要說出一個喜劇 , 沒有一個運動 , 至少我們對運動的看法 。
instead , they set up their lives so that they are constantly nudged into physical activity .	相反地 , 他們建立了自己的生命 , 這樣他們不斷地被推進實體活動 。
these 100yearold okinawan women are getting up and down off the ground , they sit on the floor , 30 or 40 times a day .	這些百歲的okinawan女性站在地上 , 她們每天坐在地板上30到40次 。
sardinians live in vertical houses , up and down the stairs .	薩丁尼亞人住在垂直的房子裡 , 樓梯上上下 。
every trip to the store , or to church or to a friend's house occasions a walk .	每次旅行到商店 , 或教堂或朋友家 , 都會走路 。
they don't have any conveniences .	他們沒有便利 。
there is not a button to push to do yard work or house work .	沒有一個按鈕來推動花園工作或房子工作 。
if they want to mix up a cake , they're doing it by hand .	如果他們想要混合蛋糕 , 他們會用手做 。
that burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does .	燃燒卡路里和跑步機一樣 。
when they do do intentional physical activity , it's the things they enjoy . they tend to walk , the only proven way to stave off cognitive decline , and they all tend to have a garden .	當他們做刻意的身體活動時 , 是他們喜歡的事 。 他們傾向於走路 , 唯一證實的方式就是脫離認知衰退 , 而他們都傾向有花園 。
they know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook .	他們知道如何用正確的方式生活 , 所以他們有正確的外觀 。
each of these cultures take time to downshift .	每一種文化都需要時間減少 。
the sardinians pray . the seventhday adventists pray .	薩丁尼亞人祈禱 。 第七天的冒險家祈禱 。
the okinawans have this ancestor veneration .	okinawans有祖先的調查 。
but when you're in a hurry or stressed out , that triggers something called the inflammatory response , which is associated with everything from alzheimer's disease to cardiovascular disease .	但當你在急促或緊張時 , 會觸發一種稱為 「 發炎反應 」 的現象 , 和阿茲海默症的一切有關 , 到心血管疾病 。
when you slow down for 15 minutes a day you turn that inflammatory state into a more antiinflammatory state .	當你每天放慢15分鐘 , 你就會把發炎狀態轉變成更反炎的狀態 。
they have vocabulary for sense of purpose , ikigai , like the okinawans .	他們的字彙有目的、ikigai , 就像okinawanns一樣 。
you know the two most dangerous years in your life are the year you're born , because of infant mortality , and the year you retire .	你知道你人生中最危險的兩年是你出生的那一年 , 因為嬰兒死亡率 , 你退休的那一年 。
these people know their sense of purpose , and they activate in their life , that's worth about seven years of extra life expectancy .	這些人知道自己的目的 , 他們活化了自己的人生 , 這價值約七年的預期壽命 。
there's no longevity diet .	沒有長壽飲食 。
instead , these people drink a little bit every day , not a hard sell to the american population .	相反地 , 這些人每天都喝點酒 , 而不是賣給美國人 。
they tend to eat a plantbased diet .	他們傾向於吃植物的飲食 。
doesn't mean they don't eat meat , but lots of beans and nuts .	不是說牠們不吃肉 , 而是很多豆類和堅果 。
and they have strategies to keep from overeating , little things that nudge them away from the table at the right time .	他們有策略可以避免過量 , 小東西在對的時間將它們推離桌子 。
and then the foundation of all this is how they connect .	這一切的基礎是他們如何連結的 。
they put their families first , take care of their children and their aging parents .	他們先把家人放第一 , 照顧他們的孩子和老化的父母 。
they all tend to belong to a faithbased community , which is worth between four and 14 extra years of life expectancy if you do it four times a month .	他們都屬於信仰型的社區 , 值4到14年的預期壽命 , 如果你每個月做四次 。
and the biggest thing here is they also belong to the right tribe .	最重要的是 , 他們也屬於對的部落 。
they were either born into or they proactively surrounded themselves with the right people .	他們不是生來就是活躍地圍繞著對的人 。
we know from the framingham studies , that if your three best friends are obese there is a 50 percent better chance that you'll be overweight .	我們從弗蘭罕研究得知 , 如果你三個最好的朋友肥胖 , 會有50%的機率超重 。
so , if you hang out with unhealthy people , that's going to have a measurable impact over time .	所以 , 如果你和不健康的人住在一起 , 隨著時間 , 會有很大的影響 。
instead , if your friend's idea of recreation is physical activity , bowling , or playing hockey , biking or gardening , if your friends drink a little , but not too much , and they eat right , and they're engaged , and they're trusting and trustworthy , that is going to have the biggest impact over time .	相反地 , 如果你的朋友對於娛樂的概念是實體的活動 , 弓弦 , 或演奏曲棍球 , 腳踏車或園藝 , 如果你的朋友喝了一點點 , 但他們吃得不對 , 而且他們很投入 , 信任和值得信賴 , 這將會對時間產生最大的影響 。
diets don't work . no diet in the history of the world has ever worked for more than two percent of the population .	飲食是行不通的 。 在歷史上 , 沒有飲食是超過2%的人口 。
exercise programs usually start in january ; they're usually done by october .	運動計劃通常從一月開始 , 通常是十月份完成的 。
when it comes to longevity there is no short term fix in a pill or anything else .	當談到長壽時 , 藥丸或任何其他東西都沒有短期的固定方案 。
but when you think about it , your friends are longterm adventures , and therefore , perhaps the most significant thing you can do to add more years to your life , and life to your years . thank you very much .	但當你仔細想想 , 你的朋友是長期的冒險 , 因此 , 也許是你能做的最重要的事 , 多年以後 , 和你的生活 。 謝謝 。
ink that conducts electricity ; a window that turns from clear to opaque at the flip of a switch ; a jelly that makes music . all this stuff exists , and catarina mota says: it's time to play with it . mota leads us on a tour of surprising and cool new materials , and suggests that the way we'll figure out what they're good for is to experiment , tinker and have fun .	那種導電力 ; 一扇窗從清晰轉換到開關的空白 ; 一顆製造音樂的水母 。 所有的東西都存在 。 卡塔琳娜•莫塔說:該是和它一起玩的時候了 。 莫塔帶領我們參觀驚喜且酷炫的新材料的旅程 , 建議我們找出它們的好處 , 去實驗、修補 , 並有樂趣 。
creativity , design , technology	創造力、設計、科技、科技、科技 。
catarina mota: play with smart materials	catarinamota:玩智能材料的遊戲 。
i have a friend in portugal whose grandfather built a vehicle out of a bicycle and a washing machine so he could transport his family .	我有一個在葡萄牙的朋友 , 他的祖父用腳踏車和洗衣機建造了一台車 , 這樣他才能運送他的家人 。
he did it because he couldn't afford a car , but also because he knew how to build one .	他這麼做是因為他買不起一輛車 , 同時也因為他知道如何建造一輛車 。
there was a time when we understood how things worked and how they were made , so we could build and repair them , or at the very least make informed decisions about what to buy .	曾經有段時間 , 我們了解事情是如何運作的 , 以及如何做出來的 , 這樣我們就能建立並修復它們 , 或最少有資訊的決策 , 來決定要買什麼 。
many of these doityourself practices were lost in the second half of the 20th century .	在20世紀後半葉 , 許多的圓頂做法都已經消失了 。
but now , the maker community and the opensource model are bringing this kind of knowledge about how things work and what they're made of back into our lives , and i believe we need to take them to the next level , to the components things are made of .	但現在 , 製造者和開放原始碼模型將這些知識帶入我們的生活中 , 我相信我們需要把這些知識帶到下一個階段 , 到構成的階段 。
for the most part , we still know what traditional materials like paper and textiles are made of and how they are produced .	大部分的情況下 , 我們仍然知道傳統的材料 , 像是紙和紡織品的構成 , 以及它們如何生產 。
but now we have these amazing , futuristic composites plastics that change shape , paints that conduct electricity , pigments that change color , fabrics that light up .	但現在我們有了這些奇妙的、具體的複合材料塑膠 , 會改變形狀、會導電的顏料、會改變顏色的顏色、會發光的布料 。
let me show you some examples .	讓我給你們看一些例子 。
so conductive ink allows us to paint circuits instead of using the traditional printed circuit boards or wires .	導電墨水讓我們繪製電路 , 而不是使用傳統印刷電路板或電線 。
in the case of this little example i'm holding , we used it to create a touch sensor that reacts to my skin by turning on this little light .	在我拿的這個小例子中 , 我們用它來創造觸摸感測器 , 藉由打開這個小光來對我的皮膚做出反應 。
conductive ink has been used by artists , but recent developments indicate that we will soon be able to use it in laser printers and pens .	藝術家用的導電墨水 , 但近期的發展顯示 , 我們很快就能用雷射印表機和筆 。
and this is a sheet of acrylic infused with colorless lightdiffusing particles .	這張是加上無色光驅光粒子的水晶 。
what this means is that , while regular acrylic only diffuses light around the edges , this one illuminates across the entire surface when i turn on the lights around it .	這意味著 , 雖然一般水晶只能在邊緣散射光線 , 這個光照在整個表面上 , 當我打開燈光時 , 會照亮整個表面 。
two of the known applications for this material include interior design and multitouch systems .	這材料有兩種已知的應用 , 包括內部設計和多點觸控系統 。
and thermochromic pigments change color at a given temperature .	而溫室色素在特定的溫度下會改變顏色 。
so i'm going to place this on a hot plate that is set to a temperature only slightly higher than ambient and you can see what happens .	所以我要把這個放在一個熱板上 , 溫度只比環境溫度稍高一點 , 你可以看到發生了什麼事 。
so one of the principle applications for this material is , amongst other things , in baby bottles , so it indicates when the contents are cool enough to drink .	這種材料的其中一個原則是嬰兒瓶子裡的其他東西 , 所以當內容物夠酷的時候 , 它會指出 。
so these are just a few of what are commonly known as smart materials .	這些只是一些常被稱為智慧材料的東西 。
in a few years , they will be in many of the objects and technologies we use on a daily basis .	幾年後 , 它們將成為我們日常使用的物體和技術 。
we may not yet have the flying cars science fiction promised us , but we can have walls that change color depending on temperature , keyboards that roll up , and windows that become opaque at the flick of a switch .	我們可能還沒有飛天車科幻小說給我們保證 , 但我們可以有牆壁 , 根據溫度 , 按鍵板會滾起來 , 窗戶會在開關上變得不一樣 。
so i'm a social scientist by training , so why am i here today talking about smart materials ?	我是社會科學家 , 為什麼我今天要談智慧材料 ?
well first of all , because i am a maker .	首先 , 因為我是製造家 。
i'm curious about how things work and how they are made , but also because i believe we should have a deeper understanding of the components that make up our world , and right now , we don't know enough about these hightech composites our future will be made of .	我很好奇事物如何運作 , 以及它們是如何製造的 , 也因為我相信我們應該更深入地了解構成我們世界的元件 , 而現在 , 我們對這些高科技合成的未來不夠了解 。
smart materials are hard to obtain in small quantities .	智慧材料很難在小量中取得 。
there's barely any information available on how to use them , and very little is said about how they are produced .	幾乎沒有任何資訊可以用在如何使用它們 , 很少人會說它們是如何產生的 。
so for now , they exist mostly in this realm of trade secrets and patents only universities and corporations have access to .	所以 , 目前 , 他們主要存在於貿易秘密和專利領域 , 只有大學和企業才能取得 。
so a little over three years ago , kirsty boyle and i started a project we called open materials .	大約三年前 , 科斯泰男孩和我成立了一個計畫 , 我們稱之為 「 開放材料 」 。
it's a website where we , and anyone else who wants to join us , share experiments , publish information , encourage others to contribute whenever they can , and aggregate resources such as research papers and tutorials by other makers like ourselves .	這是一個網站 , 我們和任何想要加入我們的人 , 分享實驗、出版資訊 , 鼓勵其他人在任何時候都能做出貢獻 , 集體資源 , 像是研究論文和教學 , 和其他像我們一樣的製造者 。
we would like it to become a large , collectively generated database of doityourself information on smart materials .	我們希望它能成為一個龐大、集體的資料庫 , 用智慧材料來發送自身資訊 。
but why should we care how smart materials work and what they are made of ?	但為什麼我們要關心智慧材料有多有效 ? 它們是由什麼組成 ?
first of all , because we can't shape what we don't understand , and what we don't understand and use ends up shaping us .	首先 , 因為我們無法塑造我們不了解的事物 , 我們不了解和使用的東西最終會塑造我們 。
the objects we use , the clothes we wear , the houses we live in , all have a profound impact on our behavior , health and quality of life .	我們使用的物品、衣服、我們居住的房子 , 都對我們的行為、健康和生活品質有深遠的影響 。
so if we are to live in a world made of smart materials , we should know and understand them .	所以如果我們生活在一個由智慧材料組成的世界 , 我們應該要知道並理解它們 。
secondly , and just as important , innovation has always been fueled by tinkerers .	第二 , 同樣重要的是 , 創新總是由tinker推動 。
so many times , amateurs , not experts , have been the inventors and improvers of things ranging from mountain bikes to semiconductors , personal computers , airplanes .	很多時候 , 業餘 , 不是專家 , 都是發明家和改善者 , 從山腳踏車到半導體 , 個人電腦 , 飛機 。
the biggest challenge is that material science is complex and requires expensive equipment .	最大的挑戰是 , 材料科學是複雜且需要昂貴的設備 。
but that's not always the case .	但並非總是如此 。
two scientists at university of illinois understood this when they published a paper on a simpler method for making conductive ink .	伊利諾大學的兩位科學家了解到這一點 , 當時他們發表了一篇論文 , 以更簡單的方式製作導電墨水 。
jordan bunker , who had had no experience with chemistry until then , read this paper and reproduced the experiment at his maker space using only offtheshelf substances and tools .	jordanbunker在那時完全沒有化學經驗 , 直到那時為止 , 讀了這篇論文 , 並在他的創作空間中進行實驗 , 只用現成的物質和工具來進行實驗 。
he used a toaster oven , and he even made his own vortex mixer , based on a tutorial by another scientist/maker .	他用烤箱 , 甚至用他自己的蒸氣混合器 , 基於另一位科學家/maker的教練 。
jordan then published his results online , including all the things he had tried and didn't work , so others could study and reproduce it .	喬丹後來在網路上發表了他的結果 , 包括他嘗試過的東西 , 沒有用 , 其他人可以研究並複製它 。
so jordan's main form of innovation was to take an experiment created in a wellequipped lab at the university and recreate it in a garage in chicago using only cheap materials and tools he made himself .	約旦的主要創新形式是把一個在大學的一個良好實驗室裡創造出來的實驗 , 並在芝加哥的車庫裡重製它 , 只用便宜的材料和工具 , 來製造他自己 。
and now that he published this work , others can pick up where he left and devise even simpler processes and improvements .	現在他發表了這項工作 , 其他人可以找到他離開的地方 , 甚至設計更簡單的過程和改善 。
another example i'd like to mention her project's goal is to highlight the expressive qualities of materials while focusing on the creativity and skills of the builder .	另外一個例子 , 我想提一下她的專案計畫的目標 , 就是強調材料的表現特質 , 同時把焦點放在建造者的創意和技巧上 。
electronics kits are very powerful in that they teach us how things work , but the constraints inherent in their design influence the way we learn .	電子設備非常強大 , 它們教導我們事物如何運作 , 但在設計中 , 限制了我們學習的方式 。
so hannah's approach , on the other hand , is to formulate a series of techniques for creating unusual objects that free us from predesigned constraints by teaching us about the materials themselves .	另一方面 , 漢娜的做法是建立一系列的技術 , 來創造出不尋常的物品 , 來讓我們從預設的限制中解放出來 , 來教導我們材料本身 。
so amongst hannah's many impressive experiments , this is one of my favorites .	在漢娜的許多令人印象深刻的實驗中 , 這是我最喜歡的一個 。
[ " paper speakers " ] what we're seeing here is just a piece of paper with some copper tape on it connected to an mp3 player and a magnet .	我們現在看到的只是一張紙 , 上面有銅膠貼在mp3和磁鐵上 。
so based on the research by marcelo coelho from mit , hannah created a series of paper speakers out of a wide range of materials from simple copper tape to conductive fabric and ink .	根據麻省理工學院的marcelocoelho的研究 , 漢娜創造了一系列的紙喇叭 , 從簡單的銅膠帶到導電布和墨水 。
just like jordan and so many other makers , hannah published her recipes and allows anyone to copy and reproduce them .	就像約旦和許多其他的製造者漢娜發表了她的食譜讓任何人複製和複製它們
but paper electronics is one of the most promising branches of material science in that it allows us to create cheaper and flexible electronics .	但紙電子產品是材料科學中最有希望的分支之一 , 讓我們能創造出更便宜且有彈性的電子產品 。
so hannah's artisanal work , and the fact that she shared her findings , opens the doors to a series of new possibilities that are both aesthetically appealing and innovative .	漢娜的工藝作品 , 她分享她的發現 , 打開了一連串新的可能性 , 兩者都很吸引人和創新 。
so the interesting thing about makers is that we create out of passion and curiosity , and we are not afraid to fail .	製造者有趣的是 , 我們從熱情和好奇心中創造出來 , 我們並不害怕失敗 。
we often tackle problems from unconventional angles , and , in the process , end up discovering alternatives or even better ways to do things .	我們常常用不尋常的角度來處理問題 , 在這個過程中 , 最後發現了替代方案 , 甚至更好的方式來做事 。
so the more people experiment with materials , the more researchers are willing to share their research , and manufacturers their knowledge , the better chances we have to create technologies that truly serve us all .	所以越多人實驗材料 , 研究人員願意分享他們的研究 , 製造他們的知識 , 我們就越有機會創造出真正適合我們所有人的科技 。
so i feel a bit as ted nelson must have when , in the early 1970s , he wrote , " you must understand computers now . "	我覺得有點像是tednelson在1970年代初 , 他寫道: 「 你現在必須要了解電腦 。 」
back then , computers were these large mainframes only scientists cared about , and no one dreamed of even having one at home .	那時 , 電腦是這些大型主體 , 只有科學家在乎 , 沒有人夢想要在家裡裝一個 。
so it's a little strange that i'm standing here and saying , " you must understand smart materials now . "	所以 , 我站在這裡有點奇怪 , 說: 「 你現在必須要了解智慧材料 。 」
just keep in mind that acquiring preemptive knowledge about emerging technologies is the best way to ensure that we have a say in the making of our future .	請記住 , 對於新興科技的知識 , 最好的方式就是確保我們有對未來的說法 。
when we drive , we get into a glass bubble , lock the doors and press the accelerator , relying on our eyes to guide us even though we can only see the few cars ahead of and behind us . but what if cars could share data with each other about their position and velocity , and use predictive models to calculate the safest routes for everyone on the road ? jennifer healey imagines a world without accidents .	當我們開車時 , 我們進入了玻璃泡 , 關上門 , 按住加速器 , 依賴我們的眼睛 , 來引導我們 , 即使我們只能看到前面的幾輛車子後面的車子 。 但如果車子能和彼此分享資料 , 關於他們的位置和速度 , 並使用模型來計算路上的每個人的安全路徑 ? 珍妮佛•哈利 , 想像一個沒有意外世界 。
jennifer healey: if cars could talk , accidents might be avoidable	珍妮佛•海利:如果汽車能說話 , 意外可能會避免意外發生 。
let's face it: driving is dangerous .	讓我們面對現實:開車是危險的 。
it's one of the things that we don't like to think about , but the fact that religious icons and good luck charms show up on dashboards around the world betrays the fact that we know this to be true .	這是我們不喜歡思考的一件事 , 但事實是 , 宗教偶像和好運迷人在世界各地出現在儀表板上 , 背叛了事實 , 我們知道這是真的 。
car accidents are the leading cause of death in people ages 16 to 19 in the united states leading cause of death and 75 percent of these accidents have nothing to do with drugs or alcohol .	車禍是美國十六到十九歲人死亡的主要原因 , 這些事故中有百分之七十五的意外與毒品或酒精無關 。
no one can say for sure , but i remember my first accident .	沒人能確定 , 但我記得我第一次意外 。
i was a young driver out on the highway , and the car in front of me , i saw the brake lights go on .	我在高速公路上是個年輕的司機 , 在我面前的車子裡 , 我看到煞車燈亮了 。
i'm like , " okay , all right , this guy is slowing down , i'll slow down too . "	我說: 「 好吧 , 這傢伙慢了下來 , 我也會慢下來 。 」
i step on the brake .	我踩煞車 。
but no , this guy isn't slowing down .	但不 , 這傢伙不會慢下來 。
this guy is stopping , dead stop , dead stop on the highway .	這傢伙在高速公路上停下來 , 停下來 。
it was just going 65 to zero ?	只剩65到零 ?
i slammed on the brakes .	我踩煞車 。
i felt the abs kick in , and the car is still going , and it's not going to stop , and i know it's not going to stop , and the air bag deploys , the car is totaled , and fortunately , no one was hurt .	我覺得abck很快就開始了 , 車子還沒停下來 , 我知道它不會停下來 , 空氣袋部署 , 車子很幸運 , 沒有人受傷 。
but i had no idea that car was stopping , and i think we can do a lot better than that .	但我完全不知道車子停止了 , 我認為我們可以做得更好 。
i think we can transform the driving experience by letting our cars talk to each other .	我認為我們可以透過讓車子彼此交談來改變駕駛的經驗 。
i just want you to think a little bit about what the experience of driving is like now .	我只是想讓你們想想開車的經驗是什麼樣子 。
get into your car . close the door . you're in a glass bubble .	上你的車 , 關上門 , 你在玻璃泡裡 。
you can't really directly sense the world around you .	你無法直接感知你周遭的世界 。
you're in this extended body .	你在這個延伸的身體裡 。
you're tasked with navigating it down partiallyseen roadways , in and amongst other metal giants , at superhuman speeds .	你的工作任務是要在半球路徑下導航 , 在其他的金屬巨人當中 , 以超人的速度 。
okay ? and all you have to guide you are your two eyes .	好嗎 ? 你只要指引你是你的雙眼 。
okay , so that's all you have , eyes that weren't really designed for this task , but then people ask you to do things like , you want to make a lane change , what's the first thing they ask you do ?	好吧 , 這就是你所擁有的 , 不是為了這個任務而設計的眼睛 , 但人們會要求你做像這樣的事 , 你想要做車道改變 , 他們最先要求你做的事是什麼 ?
take your eyes off the road . that's right .	把你的眼睛從馬路上拿走 , 沒錯 。
stop looking where you're going , turn , check your blind spot , and drive down the road without looking where you're going .	別再看你要去哪裡 , 轉身 , 檢查你的盲點 , 不看你要去哪裡 。
you and everyone else . this is the safe way to drive .	你和其他人 。 這是安全的驅動方式 。
why do we do this ? because we have to , we have to make a choice , do i look here or do i look here ?	為什麼我們要這樣做 ? 因為我們必須做出選擇 , 我要看這裡還是看這裡 ?
and usually we do a fantastic job picking and choosing what we attend to on the road .	通常我們會做一個很棒的工作 , 選擇我們在路上做的事 。
but occasionally we miss something .	但偶爾我們忽略了某樣東西 。
occasionally we sense something wrong or too late .	偶爾我們會感覺出了錯或太遲 。
in countless accidents , the driver says , " i didn't see it coming . "	無數次意外 , 司機說: 「 我沒看到它來了 。 」
and i believe that . i believe that .	我相信 。 我相信 。
we can only watch so much .	我們只能看太多了 。
but the technology exists now that can help us improve that .	但現在的科技已經存在 , 可以協助我們改善它 。
in the future , with cars exchanging data with each other , we will be able to see not just three cars ahead and three cars behind , to the right and left , all at the same time , bird's eye view , we will actually be able to see into those cars .	在未來 , 車子彼此交換資料 , 我們不僅能看到前面的三輛車 , 還有三輛車後面 , 到右邊 , 同時 , 鳥瞰視角 , 我們還能看到這些車子 。
we will be able to see the velocity of the car in front of us , to see how fast that guy's going or stopping .	我們將能夠看到前面車輛的速度 , 看看那傢伙的前方有多快或停止 。
if that guy's going down to zero , i'll know .	如果那個人要降到零 , 我就會知道 。
and with computation and algorithms and predictive models , we will be able to see the future .	有了計算、演算法和預測模型 , 我們就能看見未來 。
you may think that's impossible .	你可能認為這是不可能的 。
how can you predict the future ? that's really hard .	你要如何預測未來 ? 這真的很難 。
actually , no . with cars , it's not impossible .	事實上 , 不 , 車子不是不可能的 。
cars are threedimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity .	車子是三維的物體 , 有固定的位置和速度 。
they travel down roads .	他們沿著道路走下去 。
often they travel on prepublished routes .	通常他們會走在預先出版的路線上 。
it's really not that hard to make reasonable predictions about where a car's going to be in the near future .	很難做出合理的預測 , 預測車子在不久的將來會在哪裡 。
even if , when you're in your car and some motorcyclist comes bshoom ! 85 miles an hour down , lanesplitting i know you've had this experience that guy didn't " just come out of nowhere . "	即使當你在車上時 , 有些摩托車人每小時85英里 , 我知道你有過這個經驗 , 不是 「 出去 」 。
that guy's been on the road probably for the last half hour .	那傢伙在路上大概在過去半個小時 。
right ? i mean , somebody's seen him .	對嗎 ? 我的意思是 , 有人看過他 。
ten , 20 , 30 miles back , someone's seen that guy , and as soon as one car sees that guy and puts him on the map , he's on the map position , velocity , good estimate he'll continue going 85 miles an hour .	10、20、30英里後 , 有人看過那傢伙 , 當一輛車看到那傢伙 , 把他放在地圖上 , 他的位置 , 速度 , 好估計 , 他會以每小時85英哩的速度繼續走85英哩 。
you'll know , because your car will know , because that other car will have whispered something in his ear , like , " by the way , five minutes , motorcyclist , watch out . "	你們會知道 , 因為你的車會知道 , 因為其他的車會在他的耳朵上低聲說: 「 順便說一下 , 五分鐘 , 摩托車 , 看一下 。 」
you can make reasonable predictions about how cars behave .	你可以對汽車的行為做出合理的預測 。
i mean , they're newtonian objects .	我的意思是 , 它們是牛頓的物體 。
that's very nice about them .	這對他們來說很棒 。
so how do we get there ?	所以 , 我們要如何達成目標 ?
we can start with something as simple as sharing our position data between cars , just sharing gps .	我們可以從簡單的東西開始 , 就像分享車子間的位置資料 , 分享gps 。
if i have a gps and a camera in my car , i have a pretty precise idea of where i am and how fast i'm going .	如果我有gps和攝影機在我的車子裡 , 我有一個很精確的概念 , 關於我在哪裡 , 以及我要走多快 。
with computer vision , i can estimate where the cars around me are , sort of , and where they're going .	有了電腦視覺 , 我可以估計我身邊的車在哪裡 , 以及他們要去哪裡 。
and same with the other cars .	其他車也一樣 。
they can have a precise idea of where they are , and sort of a vague idea of where the other cars are .	他們可以精確地知道他們在哪裡 , 有點模糊 , 知道其他車在哪裡 。
what happens if two cars share that data , if they talk to each other ?	如果兩輛車有同樣的數據 , 如果他們彼此交談 , 會發生什麼事 ?
i can tell you exactly what happens .	我可以告訴你發生了什麼事 。
professor bob wang and his team have done computer simulations of what happens when fuzzy estimates combine , even in light traffic , when cars just share gps data , and we've moved this research out of the computer simulation and into robot test beds that have the actual sensors that are in cars now on these robots: stereo cameras , gps , and the twodimensional laser range finders that are common in backup systems .	bobwang教授和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 模擬了當模擬模擬結果 , 甚至在輕流量中 , 當車子共用gps資料時 , 我們把這項研究從電腦模擬中移到機器人的床上 , 進行真正的感測器 , 進行這些機器人的實際感測器:壓力攝影機、gps、二維雷射雷射雷射雷射 , 這些都是在後備系統中常見的 。
we also attach a discrete shortrange communication radio , and the robots talk to each other .	我們也加上一段短距離通訊收音機 , 機器人會彼此交談 。
when these robots come at each other , they track each other's position precisely , and they can avoid each other .	當這些機器人互相抵觸時 , 它們能精確地追蹤彼此的位置 , 它們能避免彼此 。
we're now adding more and more robots into the mix , and we encountered some problems .	我們現在在混合更多的機器人 , 我們遇到了一些問題 。
one of the problems , when you get too much chatter , it's hard to process all the packets , so you have to prioritize , and that's where the predictive model helps you .	其中一個問題是 , 當你收到太多的章節時 , 很難處理所有的包裝 , 所以你得要優先考慮 , 那就是預測模型能協助你的地方 。
if your robot cars are all tracking the predicted trajectories , you don't pay as much attention to those packets .	如果你的機器人車都在追蹤預測軌跡 , 你不會多注意那些包裝 。
you prioritize the one guy who seems to be going a little off course .	你把一個看起來有點偏離軌道的人排除在前面 。
that guy could be a problem .	那個人可能是個問題 。
and you can predict the new trajectory .	你可以預測新的軌跡 。
so you don't only know that he's going off course , you know how .	所以你不只知道他會走下去 , 你知道怎麼做 。
and you know which drivers you need to alert to get out of the way .	你知道哪些司機你需要警覺離開路 。
and we wanted to do how can we best alert everyone ?	我們想做些什麼 , 我們要如何警告每個人 ?
how can these cars whisper , " you need to get out of the way ? "	這些車子怎麼可能會說: 「 你需要走出路 ? 」
well , it depends on two things: one , the ability of the car , and second the ability of the driver .	嗯 , 它取決於兩樣東西:一 , 車的能力 , 第二個駕駛能力 。
if one guy has a really great car , but they're on their phone or , you know , doing something , they're not probably in the best position to react in an emergency .	如果一個人擁有很棒的車子 , 但他們在手機上 , 或者 , 做些什麼 , 他們可能就不在緊急狀況的最佳位置 。
so we started a separate line of research doing driver state modeling .	所以我們開始了一項分開的研究 , 做司機國家模式 。
and now , using a series of three cameras , we can detect if a driver is looking forward , looking away , looking down , on the phone , or having a cup of coffee .	現在 , 使用一系列的三台攝影機 , 我們能偵測到 , 如果駕駛向前看 , 向下看 , 看手機 , 或喝杯咖啡 。
we can predict the accident and we can predict who , which cars , are in the best position to move out of the way to calculate the safest route for everyone .	我們可以預測意外事故 , 我們可以預測哪輛車 , 最好的位置是要走出路 , 去計算每個人最安全的路線 。
fundamentally , these technologies exist today .	基本上 , 這些技術是現今存在的 。
i think the biggest problem that we face is our own willingness to share our data .	我認為我們面臨的最大問題是我們自己願意分享我們的資料 。
i think it's a very disconcerting notion , this idea that our cars will be watching us , talking about us to other cars , that we'll be going down the road in a sea of gossip .	我認為這是一個非常讓人沮喪的觀念 , 我們的車子會看著我們 , 談論其他車輛 , 說我們會在一片八卦的大道上走下去 。
but i believe it can be done in a way that protects our privacy , just like right now , when i look at your car from the outside , i don't really know about you .	但我相信它可以用一種方式來保護我們的隱私 , 就像現在 , 當我從外面看你的車 , 我並不知道你 。
if i look at your license plate number , i don't really know who you are .	如果我看看你的車牌號碼 , 我真的不知道你是誰 。
i believe our cars can talk about us behind our backs .	我相信我們的車子可以在我們的背後談論我們 。
and i think it's going to be a great thing .	我認為這將會是件好事 。
i want you to consider for a moment if you really don't want the distracted teenager behind you to know that you're braking , that you're coming to a dead stop .	我希望各位花點時間想想 , 如果你真的不希望身後的青少年知道你在煞車 , 你即將來到終點 。
by sharing our data willingly , we can do what's best for everyone .	透過自願分享我們的資料 , 我們就能為每個人做最好的事 。
so let your car gossip about you .	所以 , 讓你的車子看看你 。
it's going to make the roads a lot safer .	它會讓道路更安全 。
x prize founder peter diamandis talks about how he helped stephen hawking fulfill his dream of going to space by flying together into the upper atmosphere and experiencing weightlessness at zero g .	xprize的創辦人彼得•戴曼迪斯談到他如何協助史蒂芬•霍金實現了他的夢想 , 透過一起飛進大氣層 , 體驗無重量的無重力 。
business , flight , science , short talk , space , technology , universe	商業、飛行、科學、短談、空間、科技、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙 。
peter diamandis on stephen hawking in zero g	史蒂芬•霍金的彼得•戴曼迪斯在0g中在史蒂芬•霍金的史蒂芬•戴曼迪斯 。
those of you who know me know how passionate i am about opening the space frontier .	那些認識我的人 , 知道我有多熱情 , 想要打開太空前線 。
so when i had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity , it was incredible .	所以當我有機會給全世界的重力專家──無重力的體驗 , 那真是太棒了 。
and i want to tell you that story .	我想告訴各位這個故事 。
i first met him through the archon x prize for genomics .	我初次見到他是基因組學的archonx獎 。
it's a competition we're holding , the second x prize , for the first team to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days .	這是我們所持有的競爭 , 第二個xprize , 讓第一個團隊在十天內將100個人類基因組定序 。
we have something called the genome 100 100 individuals we're sequencing as part of that .	我們有所謂的基因組一百個人 , 我們將它定序為其中的一部分 。
craig venter chairs that event .	克萊格•凡特事件 。
and i met professor hawking , and he said his dream was to travel into space .	我遇到了霍金教授 , 他說他的夢想是要進入太空 。
and i said , " i can't take you there , but i can take you into weightlessness into zerog .	我說: 「 我不能帶你到那裡 , 但我可以帶你到零的無重力中 。
and he said , on the spot , " absolutely , yes . "	他說: 「 絕對是的 。 」
well , the only way to experience zerog on earth is actually with parabolic flight , weightless flight .	唯一能體驗地球零度的方法 , 其實是用拋物飛行 , 無重力飛行 。
you take an airplane , you fly over the top , you're weightless for 25 seconds .	你拿一架飛機 , 你飛過頂部 , 重量25秒 。
come back down , you weigh twice as much .	回來 , 你的重量是兩倍 。
you do it again and again .	你一而再而三地做 。
you can get eight , 10 minutes of weightlessness how nasa's trained their astronauts for so long .	你可以得到8、10分鐘的無重力--美國太空總署長度以來訓練他們的太空人 。
we set out to do this .	我們開始這樣做 。
it took us 11 years to become operational .	我們花了11年才開始運作 。
and we announced that we were going to fly stephen hawking .	我們宣佈我們要飛史蒂芬霍金 。
we had one government agency and one company aircraft operator say , you're crazy , don't do that , you're going kill the guy .	我們有一間政府機構和一間公司飛機操作員說 , 你瘋了 , 別這樣做 , 你就會殺了這個傢伙 。
and he wanted to go .	他想要去 。
we worked hard to get all the permissions .	我們努力取得所有的許可 。
and six months later , we sat down at kennedy space center .	六個月後 , 我們在甘迺迪太空中心坐下來 。
we had a press conference , we announced our intent to do one zerog parabola , give him 25 seconds of zerog .	我們有一場新聞會議 , 我們宣佈我們要做一個零平面 , 給他25秒的零 。
and if it went really well , we might do three parabolas .	如果一切順利 , 我們可能會做三個拋物鏡 。
well , we asked him why he wanted to go up and do this .	我們問他為什麼他要上去做這件事 。
and what he said , for me , was very moving .	他所說的 , 對我來說 , 非常感人 。
he said , " life on earth is at an everincreasing risk of being wiped out by disaster . . .	他說: 「 地球上的生命正處於不斷增加的風險 , 被災難摧毀......
i think the human race doesn't have a future if it doesn't go into space .	我認為 , 如果沒有進入太空 , 人類就不會有未來 。
i therefore want to encourage public interest in space . "	所以我想鼓勵公眾對太空的興趣 。 」
we took him out to the kennedy space center , up inside the nasa vehicle , into the back of the zerog airplane .	我們把他帶到甘迺迪太空中心 , 在nasa車輛的後面 , 進入零角飛機的後面 。
we had about 20 people who made donations we raised $150 , 000 in donations for children's charities who flew with us .	我們有大約二十個人捐款 , 我們捐款給十五萬美金給兒童慈善機構 。
a few tedsters here .	這裡有幾個tedster 。
we set up a whole er .	我們設立了一個整間急診室 。
we had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane .	我們有四位急診室醫生和兩位護士登上飛機 。
we were monitoring his po2 of his blood , his heart rate , his blood pressure .	我們監測他的血液、心跳速率、血壓 。
we had everything all set in case of an emergency ; god knows , you don't want to hurt this worldrenowned expert .	我們有各式各樣的東西 , 例如緊急狀況 ; 神知道 , 你不想傷害這個世界知名的專家 。
we took off from the shuttle landing facility , where the shuttle takes off and lands .	我們從太空梭降落設施起飛 , 太空梭起飛 , 降落 。
and my partner byron lichtenberg and i carefully suspended him into zerog .	我的另一半是羅恩•里希伯格 , 我小心地把他壓縮成零 。
once he was there , [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like .	一旦他在那裡 , 我們就讓他去體驗無重力的真正體驗 。
and after that first parabola , you know , the doc said everything is great . he was smiling , and we said go .	在第一個拋物蟲之後 , 你知道的 , 醫生說一切都很棒 。 他笑了 , 我們說: 「 走了 。 」
so we did a second parabola .	所以我們做了第二次拋物線鏡 。
we actually floated an apple in homage to sir isaac newton because professor hawking holds the same chair at cambridge that isaac newton did .	我們實際上漂浮在牛頓爵士的霍格斯區因為霍金教授在劍橋舉辦了相同的椅子 , 艾薩克•牛頓 。
and we did a fourth , and a fifth and a sixth .	我們做了第四、第五、第六次 。
and a seventh and an eighth .	第七次和第八次 。
and this man does not look like a 65yearold wheelchairbound man .	這個人看起來不像一個65歲的輪椅人 。
he was so happy .	他很開心 。
we are living on a precious jewel , and it's during our lifetime that we're moving off this planet .	我們生活在珍貴的珠寶上 , 在我們一生中 , 我們正從這個星球上移下來 。
please join us in this epic adventure .	請加入我們這個史詩般的冒險 。
medical animator david bolinsky presents 3 minutes of stunning animation that show the bustling life inside a cell .	醫療動畫大衛•布林斯基在一個細胞內展現出令人震驚的動畫 。
design , entertainment , film , health , medicine , science , technology , visualizations	設計、娛樂、電影、健康、醫學、科學、科技、視覺化視覺化 。
david bolinsky animates a cell	davidbolinsky動畫了一個細胞
i'm a medical illustrator , and i come from a slightly different point of view .	我是醫學插圖師 , 我來自一個稍微不同的觀點 。
i've been watching , since i grew up , the expressions of truth and beauty in the arts and truth and beauty in the sciences .	自從我長大以來 , 我一直在看真相和美麗的表達在科學中的藝術、真與美 。
and while these are both wonderful things in their own right they both have very wonderful things going for them truth and beauty as ideals that can be looked at by the sciences and by math are almost like the ideal conjoined twins that a scientist would want to date .	雖然這兩者都很美好 , 但他們都有很棒的東西 , 能為他們帶來真相和美 , 作為理想的科學和數學的理想 , 幾乎就像是科學家想約會的理想結合雙胞胎 。
these are expressions of truth as awefull things , by meaning they are things you can worship .	這些表達真相是令人敬畏的事物 , 意味著它們是你可以崇拜的事物 。
they are ideals that are powerful . they are irreducible .	它們是很強大的理想 。 它們是不可思議的 。
they are unique . they are useful sometimes , often a long time after the fact .	它們是獨一無二的 , 有時是有用的 , 通常在事實後很長一段時間 。
and you can actually roll some of the pictures now , because i don't want to look at me on the screen .	現在你可以把這些照片翻出來 , 因為我不想在螢幕上看著我 。
truth and beauty are things that are often opaque to people who are not in the sciences .	真相和美 , 通常對不在科學領域的人來說是不可或缺的 。
they are things that describe beauty in a way that is often only accessible if you understand the language and the syntax of the person who studies the subject in which truth and beauty is expressed .	它們是用來描述美麗的事物 , 通常只能理解語言和語法 , 研究真相和美的主題 。
if you look at the math , e=mc squared , if you look at the cosmological constant , where there's an anthropic ideal , where you see that life had to evolve from the numbers that describe the universe these are things that are really difficult to understand .	如果你觀察數學 , e=mc平方 , 如果你觀察宇宙的常數 , 有一個人類理想 , 你可以看到生命必須從描述宇宙的數字中進化 , 這些都是很難理解的 。
and what i've tried to do since i had my training as a medical illustrator since i was taught animation by my father , who was a sculptor and my visual mentor i wanted to figure out a way to help people understand truth and beauty in the biological sciences by using animation , by using pictures , by telling stories so that the things that are not necessarily evident to people can be brought forth , and can be taught , and can be understood .	自從我被教導父親動畫的醫學插畫師以後 , 我嘗試做的是 , 他是雕塑家和我的視覺導師 , 我想要找出方法來幫助人們了解生物科學的真與美 , 透過動畫 , 用圖像 , 說故事 , 讓人們不見得有證據可以被教導 , 也能被教導 。
students today are often immersed in an environment where what they learn is subjects that have truth and beauty embedded in them , but the way they're taught is compartmentalized and it's drawn down to the point where the truth and beauty are not always evident .	現今的學生經常沉浸在一個環境中 , 她們學到的是有真相和美麗的主題 , 但她們被教導的方式卻被拿來比較 , 她們學到的事實和美 , 並不總是顯而易見 。
it's almost like that old recipe for chicken soup where you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone .	就像是雞湯的老食譜 , 你煮雞肉 , 直到味覺消失 。
we don't want to do that to our students .	我們不想對我們的學生那樣做 。
so we have an opportunity to really open up education .	所以我們有機會真正開放教育 。
and i had a telephone call from robert lue at harvard , in the molecular and cellular biology department , a couple of years ago . he asked me if my team and i would be interested and willing to really change how medical and scientific education is done at harvard .	我接到哈佛大學的robertlue打來的電話 , 在幾年前的分子和細胞生物學部門 。 他問我和我的團隊是否有興趣 , 願意真正改變哈佛大學的醫學和科學教育 。
so we embarked on a project that would explore the cell that would explore the truth and beauty inherent in molecular and cellular biology so that students could understand a larger picture that they could hang all of these facts on .	所以我們開始進行一項計畫 , 探索細胞 , 探索分子和細胞生物學的真與美 , 讓學生能了解更大的圖片 , 讓它們能夠記住這些事實 。
they could have a mental image of the cell as a large , bustling , hugely complicated city that's occupied by micromachines .	他們可能有一塊由微機械所組成的大型巴士所構成的複雜城市 。
and these micromachines really are at the heart of life .	這些微機械正處於生命的核心 。
these micromachines , which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over , are selfdirected , powerful , precise , accurate devices that are made out of strings of amino acids .	這些微機械 , 是世界各地奈米技術人員的嫉妒 , 是自主導導導向、強大、精確、精確的裝置 , 由胺基酸組成 。
and these micromachines power how a cell moves .	這些微機械的力量是細胞如何移動的 。
they power how a cell replicates . they power our hearts .	它們會驅動細胞複製的方式 。 它們會影響我們的心 。
they power our minds .	它們能驅動我們的思想 。
and so what we wanted to do was to figure out how we could make this story into an animation that would be the centerpiece of biovisions at harvard , which is a website that harvard has for its molecular and cellular biology students that will in addition to all the textual information , in addition to all the didactic stuff put everything together visually , so that these students would have an internalized view of what a cell really is in all of its truth and beauty , and be able to study with this view in mind , so that their imaginations would be sparked , so that their passions would be sparked and so that they would be able to go on and use these visions in their head to make new discoveries and to be able to find out , really , how life works .	所以我們想做的是 , 想辦法把這個故事做成動畫 , 將是哈佛的生物維護中心 , 這個網站是哈佛大學為它的分子和細胞生物學系學生所設立的 , 除了所有的文學資料以外 , 所有的做法都被視覺組合在一起 , 這樣這些學生就可以從內部看出細胞的真相和美麗 , 並且能夠從中研究這個觀點 , 以此來研究它們的心靈感 , 使它們的生命能被發現 。
so we set out by looking at how these molecules are put together .	所以我們開始研究這些分子如何組合在一起 。
we worked with a theme , which is , you've got macrophages that are streaming down a capillary , and they're touching the surface of the capillary wall , and they're picking up information from cells that are on the capillary wall , and they are given this information that there's an inflammation somewhere outside , where they can't see and sense .	我們和一個主題合作 , 也就是說 , 你的巨噬細胞在微血管下流動 , 它們正在觸碰微血管壁的表面 , 它們正在從微血管壁上接收到來自細胞的信息 , 它們給的信息是 , 在外面的某處發炎 , 在那裡 , 它們看不見和感知 。
but they get the information that causes them to stop , causes them to internalize that they need to make all of the various parts that will cause them to change their shape , and try to get out of this capillary and find out what's going on .	但他們得到的資訊會讓它們停止 , 讓它們內化 , 讓它們需要製造出各種各樣的零件 , 來改變它們的形狀 , 試著脫離這種微小的管道 , 找出發生了什麼事 。
so these molecular motors we had to work with the harvard scientists and databank models of the atomically accurate molecules and figure out how they moved , and figure out what they did .	這些分子馬達 , 我們得要和哈佛科學家及資料庫模型合作 , 模型原子是精確的分子 , 找出它們如何移動 , 找出它們的作用 。
and figure out how to do this in a way that was truthful in that it imparted what was going on , but not so truthful that the compact crowding in a cell would prevent the vista from happening .	想辦法以一種真誠的方式來做這件事 , 讓發生了什麼事 , 但不太真實 , 細胞裡的緊密群會防止病毒發生 。
and so what i'm going to show you is a threeminute reader's digest version of the first aspect of this film that we produced . it's an ongoing project that's going to go another four or five years .	接下來我要給你們看的是一個三分鐘的讀者的消化版本 , 是我們製作的這部電影的第一個面向 。 這是一個持續進行的計畫 , 將要花四到五年 。
and i want you to look at this and see the paths that the cell manufactures these little walking machines , they're called kinesins that take these huge loads that would challenge an ant in relative size .	我希望你們看一下 , 看到細胞製造這些小步行機器的路徑 , 它們被稱為kinesin , 將這些巨大的負荷帶到相對大小的螞蟻身上 。
run the movie , please .	請跑這部電影 , 拜託 。
but these machines that power the inside of the cells are really quite amazing , and they really are the basis of all life because all of these machines interact with each other .	但這些機器能驅動細胞內部的機器真的很了不起 , 它們真的是所有生命的基礎 , 因為所有這些機器都能彼此互動 。
they pass information to each other .	他們互相傳遞訊息 。
they cause different things to happen inside the cell .	它們會導致細胞內發生不同的事 。
and the cell will actually manufacture the parts that it needs on the fly , from information that's brought from the nucleus by molecules that read the genes .	細胞會製造果蠅所需要的部件 , 由細胞核的分子所引發的資訊 。
no life , from the smallest life to everybody here , would be possible without these little micromachines .	沒有生命 , 從最小的生命到這裡的每個人 , 如果沒有這些微機械的話 , 就不可能有生命了 。
in fact , it would really , in the absence of these machines , have made the attendance here , chris , really quite sparse .	事實上 , 在沒有這些機器的情況下 , 克里斯的出席率真的很大 。
this is the fedex delivery guy of the cell .	這是細胞的fedex遞送人員 。
this little guy is called the kinesin , and he pulls a sack that's full of brand new manufactured proteins to wherever it's needed in the cell whether it's to a membrane , whether it's to an organelle , whether it's to build something or repair something .	這個小傢伙叫做 「 kinesin 」 , 他拉著一把全新的製造蛋白質到細胞所需的任何地方 , 不論是到細胞膜 , 不論是用來製造或修復某樣東西 。
and each of us has about 100 , 000 of these things running around , right now , inside each one of your 100 trillion cells .	我們每個人都有大約十萬個這種東西正在四處運作 , 目前 , 每一百兆個細胞中都有大約十萬個 。
so no matter how lazy you feel , you're not really intrinsically doing nothing .	不論你感覺多懶 , 你本質上什麼都不做 。
so what i want you to do when you go home is think about this , and think about how powerful our cells are .	所以當你回家時 , 我要你做的是想想這個 , 想想我們的細胞有多強大 。
and think about some of the things that we're learning about cellular mechanics .	想想一些我們正在學習的關於細胞機械的東西 。
once we figure out all that's going on and believe me , we know almost a percent of what's going on once we figure out what's going on , we're really going to be able to have a lot of control over what we do with our health , with what we do with future generations , and how long we're going to live .	一旦我們了解了所有正在發生的事情 , 相信我 , 我們就知道一旦我們知道發生了什麼事 , 我們就真的能夠掌握很多掌控我們的健康 , 掌握我們對未來的世代所做的事 , 以及我們將能活多久 。
and hopefully we'll be able to use this to discover more truth , and more beauty .	希望我們能用它來發現更多的真相 , 還有更多的美 。
but it's really quite amazing that these cells , these micromachines , are aware enough of what the cell needs that they do their bidding .	但令人驚訝的是 , 這些細胞 , 這些微機械 , 已經足以察覺細胞所需的作用 。
they work together . they make the cell do what it needs to do .	他們一起工作 。 他們讓細胞做它需要做的事 。
and their working together helps our bodies huge entities that they will never see function properly .	他們一起工作 , 幫助我們身體的巨大實體 , 他們永遠看不到正常的功能 。
enjoy the rest of the show . thank you .	享受剩下的表演 。 謝謝 。
becky blanton planned to live in her van for a year and see the country , but when depression set in and her freelance job ended , her camping trip turned into homelessness . in this intimate talk , she describes her experience of becoming one of america's working homeless .	貝琪•布蘭頓計劃在她的車裡待了一年 , 看到了這個國家 , 但當憂鬱落入 , 她的自由工作結束時 , 她的露營旅程變成無家可歸者 。 在這個親密的演講中 , 她描述了她經歷成為美國無家可歸的無家可歸者 。
adventure , happiness , life , personal growth , poverty , social change , society , storytelling	冒險、快樂、人生、個人成長、貧窮、社會變遷、社會變遷、說故事、說故事、說故事、說故事、社會、社會、社會、說故事、故事、說故事、
becky blanton: the year i was homeless	貝琪•布蘭頓:那一年 , 我無家可歸 , 無家可歸 。
i'm a writer and a journalist , and i'm also an insanely curious person , so in 22 years as a journalist , i've learned how to do a lot of new things .	我是一位作家和記者 , 我也是一位瘋狂的好奇人 , 所以 , 22年來作為記者 , 我學會了很多新的東西 。
and three years ago , one of the things i learned how to do was to become invisible .	三年前 , 我學到的其中一件事就是變得隱形 。
i became one of the working homeless .	我成為了無家可歸者之一 。
i quit my job as a newspaper editor after my father died in february of that same year , and decided to travel .	我辭掉了報紙編輯的工作 , 在我父親同年二月去世之後 , 我決定去旅行 。
his death hit me pretty hard .	他的死亡對我影響很大 。
and there were a lot of things that i wanted to feel and deal with while i was doing that .	在我這麼做時 , 我想要感受到和處理很多事情 。
i've camped my whole life . and i decided that living in a van for a year to do this would be like one long camping trip .	我一生都在露營 。 我決定住在一台車裡待了一年 , 去做這件事就像一趟漫長的露營旅程 。
so i packed my cat , my rottweiler and my camping gear into a 1975 chevy van , and drove off into the sunset , having fully failed to realize three critical things .	所以 , 我把貓包起來 , 我的腐爛weiler和我的露營裝備裝在1975年的車裡 , 開車到日落 , 完全沒有意識到三件重要的事 。
one: that society equates living in a permanent structure , even a shack , with having value as a person .	第一:社會等於永久的結構 , 甚至是緊縮 , 以人的價值為衡量 。
two: i failed to realize how quickly the negative perceptions of other people can impact our reality , if we let it .	第二:我沒有意識到 , 別人的負面感知會如何快速影響我們的現實 , 如果我們放下它的話 。
three: i failed to realize that homelessness is an attitude , not a lifestyle .	第三:我沒有意識到 , 無家可歸是一種態度 , 而不是生活方式 。
at first , living in the van was great .	一開始 , 住在車上是很棒的 。
i showered in campgrounds . i ate out regularly .	我在營地洗澡 。 我經常吃飯 。
and i had time to relax and to grieve .	我有時間放鬆和悲慟 。
but then the anger and the depression about my father's death set in .	但之後 , 我父親的死亡造成的憤怒和沮喪 。
my freelance job ended . and i had to get a fulltime job to pay the bills .	我的自由工作結束了 , 我得要有全職的工作來支付帳單 。
what had been a really mild spring turned into a miserably hot summer .	當時很溫和的春天 , 變成了一個很熱的夏天 。
and it became impossible to park anywhere without being very obvious that i had a cat and a dog with me , and it was really hot .	在任何地方 , 都不可能停車 , 很顯然我有一隻貓和一隻狗 , 真的很熱 。
the cat came and went through an open window in the van .	貓跑過來 , 在車上打開窗戶 。
the doggy went into doggy day care .	狗狗狗在照顧狗狗 。
whenever i could , i used employee showers in office buildings and truck stops .	每當我能時 , 我都會用辦公大樓的員工淋浴 , 卡車停止 。
or i washed up in public rest rooms .	或是我在公共房間洗衣服 。
nighttime temperatures in the van rarely dropped below 80 degrees fahrenheit , making it difficult or impossible to sleep .	在華氏80度以下的夜間溫度很少會降低 , 使得睡不著或無法睡覺 。
food rotted in the heat .	食物在熱中腐爛 。
ice in my ice chest melted within hours , and it was pretty miserable .	冰層在我的冰層融化了好幾個小時 , 感覺很悲慘 。
i couldn't afford to find an apartment , or couldn't afford an apartment that would allow me to have the rottweiler and the cat .	我負擔不起公寓 , 或負擔不起公寓 , 讓我有了腐爛的推力器和貓 。
and i refused to give them up , so i stayed in the van .	我拒絕放棄 , 所以我留在車上 。
and when the heat made me too sick to walk the 50 feet to the public restroom outside my van at night , i used a bucket and a trash bag as a toilet .	當暖氣使我無法走50英尺 , 到我車外的公共廁所時 , 我用桶子和垃圾袋當廁所 。
when winter weather set in , the temperatures dropped below freezing . and they stayed there .	當冬天氣候下降時 , 溫度降到冰凍之下 , 牠們留在那裡 。
and i faced a whole new set of challenges .	我面對了全新的挑戰 。
i parked a different place every night so i would avoid being noticed and hassled by the police .	我每天晚上都停著不同的地點 , 這樣我才能避免被警察注意到和被警察察察察察察察察察察察察察察察察察察察察察察注意
i didn't always succeed .	我並不總是成功 。
but i felt out of control of my life .	但我感覺不到我人生的控制 。
and i don't know when or how it happened , but the speed at which i went from being a talented writer and journalist to being a homeless woman , living in a van , took my breath away .	我不知道何時或如何發生 , 但我從一個有才華的作家和記者變成一個無家可歸的女人 , 住在車子裡 , 把我的呼吸帶走了 。
i hadn't changed . my i . q . hadn't dropped .	我還沒改變 , 我的智商還沒下學 。
my talent , my integrity , my values , everything about me remained the same .	我的才華 , 我的完整性 , 我的價值觀 , 所有關於我的東西都一樣 。
but i had changed somehow .	但不知怎麼的 , 我改變了 。
i spiraled deeper and deeper into a depression .	我更深入地探索了憂鬱症 。
and eventually someone referred me to a homeless health clinic .	最後有人把我稱為無家可歸的健康診所 。
and i went . i hadn't bathed in three days .	我去了 。 我三天沒有洗澡 。
i was as smelly and as depressed as anyone in line .	我和任何人一樣 , 都很沮喪 。
i just wasn't drunk or high .	我只是沒喝醉或喝醉 。
and when several of the homeless men realized that , including a former university professor , they said , " you aren't homeless . why are you really here ? "	當幾個無家可歸的人意識到 , 包括前大學教授 , 他們說: 「 你不是無家可歸的 , 為什麼你會在這裡 ? 」
other homeless people didn't see me as homeless , but i did .	其他無家可歸的人沒有把我視為無家可歸的人 , 但我做到了 。
then the professor listened to my story and he said , " you have a job . you have hope .	然後教授聽我的故事 , 他說: 「 你有工作 , 你有希望 。
the real homeless don't have hope . "	真正的無家可歸者沒有希望 。 」
a reaction to the medication the clinic gave me for my depression left me suicidal . and i remember thinking , " if i killed myself , no one would notice . "	診所給我的自殺傾向 , 我記得當時在想: 「 如果我殺了我 , 沒人會注意到 。 」
a friend told me , shortly after that , that she had heard that tim russert , a nationally renowned journalist , had been talking about me on national t . v .	不久後 , 一位朋友告訴我 , 她聽說提姆•羅斯特 , 他是全國知名的記者 , 一直在談論我在國際電視台上談論我 。
an essay i'd written about my father , the year before he died , was in tim's new book .	我寫了一篇關於我父親的文章 , 在他死前的那一年 , 是在提姆的新書中 。
and he was doing the talk show circuit . and he was talking about my writing .	他在做這個講座的電路 。 他在談我的寫作 。
and when i realized that tim russert , former moderator of " meet the press , " was talking about my writing , while i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , i started laughing .	當我意識到timrusssert時 , 《見報》的前主持人在談論我的寫作 , 當我住在walmart停車場時 , 我開始笑 。
i started laughing because it got to the point where , was i a writer , or was i a homeless woman ?	我開始笑 , 因為這已經到了我是作家 , 還是我是無家可歸的女性 ?
so i went in the bookstore . and i found tim's book .	所以我去了書店 , 找到提姆的書 。
and i stood there . and i reread my essay .	我站在那裡 , 重新讀我的短論 。
because i was a writer .	因為我是個作家 。
i was a writer .	我是個作家 。
shortly after that i moved back to tennessee .	在那之後不久 , 我搬回田納西 。
i alternated between living in a van and couch surfing with friends .	我和朋友住在貨車裡 , 和沙發衝浪之間的改變 。
and i started writing again .	我又開始寫作了 。
by the summer of the following year i was a working journalist .	隔年夏天 , 我是個工作記者 。
i was winning awards . i was living in my own apartment .	我贏得獎項 。 我住在我自己的公寓裡 。
i was no longer homeless .	我不再無家可歸 。
and i was no longer invisible .	我不再被看不見了 。
thousands of people work full and parttime jobs , and live in their cars .	數以千計的人全職工作 , 一同工作 , 住在他們的車裡 。
but society continues to stigmatize and criminalize living in your vehicle or on the streets .	但社會持續把生活在車上或街上的犯罪化和罪犯化 。
so the homeless , the working homeless , primarily remain invisible .	所以無家可歸 , 工作無家可歸 , 主要是看不見的 。
but if you ever meet one , engage them , encourage them , and offer them hope .	但如果你遇過一個 , 讓他們參與 , 鼓勵他們 , 並提供他們希望 。
the human spirit can overcome anything if it has hope .	人類的精神可以克服任何事情 , 如果它有希望的話 。
and i'm not here to be the poster girl for the homeless .	我不是來這裡當無家可歸的海報女孩 。
i'm not here to encourage you to give money to the next panhandler you meet .	我不是來鼓勵你把錢捐給下一個你遇見的乞討者 。
but i am here to tell you that , based on my experience , people are not where they live , where they sleep , or what their life situation is at any given time .	但我在這裡要告訴各位 , 根據我的經驗 , 大家不是他們住的地方 , 他們睡在哪裡 , 或他們生活的情境隨時都在 。
three years ago i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , and today i'm speaking at ted .	三年前 , 我住在一輛沃爾瑪超市停車場 , 今天我在ted演講 。
hope always , always finds a way . thank you .	希望總是找到方法 。 謝謝 。
at tedxchange , thailand's " mr . condom , " mechai viravaidya , walks us through the country's bold plan to raise its standard of living , starting in the 1970s . first step: population control . and that means a lot of frank , funny and very effective talk about condoms .	在tedxchange , 泰國的《保險套》 , mechaiviravaida , 帶我們走過全國的大膽計劃 , 來提高它的生活水準 , 從1970年代開始 。 第一步:人口控制 。 這意味著很多法蘭克、有趣的 , 和非常有效的討論保險套 。
culture , global issues , health , population , science	文化、全球議題、健康、人口、科學、科學、科學、科學、
mechai viravaidya: how mr . condom made thailand a better place	契亞•維瓦里達:保險套如何讓泰國成為一個更好的地方 , 一個更好的地方 。
now , when i was a young man 40 years ago , the country was very , very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty .	40年前 , 當我還是個年輕人時 , 這個國家非常非常貧窮 , 有許多人生活在貧窮之中 。
we decided to do something about it , but we didn't begin with a welfare program or a poverty reduction program .	我們決定採取行動 , 但我們並不是從福利計畫開始 , 或減少貧窮計畫開始 。
but we began with a familyplanning program , following a very successful maternal child health activity , sets of activities .	但我們從家庭平台開始 , 遵循一個非常成功的孕產婦健康活動 , 一組活動 。
so basically , no one would accept family planning if their children didn't survive .	基本上 , 沒有人能接受家庭規劃 , 如果他們的孩子沒有存活下來 。
so the first step: get to the children , get to the mothers , and then follow up with family planning .	第一步:到孩子們 , 去找媽媽 , 然後跟著家人計劃 。
not just child mortality alone , you need also family planning .	不僅僅是兒童死亡 , 你還需要家庭規劃 。
now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it .	讓我帶各位回來 , 為何我們需要這麼做 。
in my country , that was the case in 1974 .	在我的國家 , 那是1974年的案例 。
seven children per family tremendous growth at 3 . 3 percent .	每個家庭中有7個孩子 , 成長率是3.3% 。
there was just no future .	沒有未來 。
we needed to reduce the population growth rate .	我們需要減少人口成長率 。
so we said , " let's do it . "	我們說: 「 我們來做吧 。 」
the women said , " we agree . we'll use pills , but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills , " and we had very , very few doctors .	女性說: 「 我們同意 , 我們會用藥丸 , 但我們需要醫生來開藥 。 」 我們很少有醫生 。
we didn't take no as an answer ; we took no as a question .	我們沒有把 「 不 」 視為 「 不 」 的問題 。
we went to the nurses and the midwives , who were also women , and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill .	我們去看護士和助產士 , 他們同時也是女性 , 做了一個很棒的工作 , 解釋如何使用藥丸 。
that was wonderful , but it covered only 20 percent of the country .	那是很棒的 , 但它只覆蓋了百分之二十的國家 。
what do we do for the other 80 percent leave them alone and say , " well , they're not medical personnel . "	我們為其他80%的人做些什麼 , 讓他們孤獨 , 說: 「 嗯 , 他們不是醫療人員 。 」
no , we decided to do a bit more .	不 , 我們決定多做一點 。
so we went to the ordinary people that you saw .	所以我們去了普通人群 。
actually , below that yellow sign i wish they hadn't wiped that , because there was " cocacola " there .	其實 , 在那黃色標誌下面我希望他們沒有這麼做 , 因為那裡有 「 可口可樂 」 。
we were so much bigger than cocacola in those days .	當時我們比可口可樂還要大很多 。
and no difference , the people they chose were the people we chose .	沒有差別 , 他們選的人是我們選的人 。
they were wellknown in the community , they knew that customers were always right , and they were terrific , and they practiced their family planning themselves .	他們在社區中很熟悉 , 他們知道客戶總是對的 , 而且他們很棒 , 他們自己練習了他們的家庭規劃 。
so they could supply pills and condoms throughout the country , in every village of the country .	所以他們可以在全國各地提供藥丸和保險套 , 在全國各個村莊 。
so there we are . we went to the people who were seen as the cause of the problem to be the solution .	所以 , 我們在那裡 。 我們去找被視為問題的成因者 , 來解決問題 。
wherever there were people and you can see boats with the women , selling things here's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives wherever you find people , you'll find contraceptives in thailand .	不論有哪些人 , 你都能看到有女人的船 , 賣東西是漂浮的市場賣香蕉和螃蟹 , 還有避孕用品 , 不論你在泰國哪裡找到的人 , 你會在泰國找到避孕品 。
and then we decided , why not get to religion because in the philippines , the catholic church was pretty strong , and thai people were buddhist .	然後我們決定 , 為什麼不上宗教 , 因為在菲律賓 , 天主教教會非常強壯 , 泰國人是佛教徒 。
we went to them and they said , " look , could you help us ? "	我們去找他們 , 他們說: 「 聽著 , 你能幫我們嗎 ? 」
i'm there the one in blue , not the yellow holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to sprinkle holy water on pills and condoms for the sanctity of the family .	我是藍色的那隻 , 不是黃色的黃色 , 拿著一碗聖水 , 讓僧侶在吃藥和保險套上灑水 , 為家庭的聖經 。
and this picture was sent throughout the country .	這張照片被送到全國各地 。
so some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves .	有些村莊裡的僧人自己也做了同樣的事 。
and the women were saying , " no wonder we have no sideeffects .	女人說: 「 難怪我們沒有副作用 。
it's been blessed . "	它被祝福了 。 」
that was their perception .	那是他們的感知 。
and then we went to teachers .	然後我們去找老師 。
you need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place .	你需要每個人參與嘗試提供任何讓人類成為更好的地方 。
so we went to the teachers .	所以我們去找老師 。
over a quarter of a million were taught about family planning with a new alphabet a , b for birth , c for condom , i for iud , v for vasectomy .	超過25萬人被教導家庭規劃 , 用新的字母a、出生、保險套、紫外線、血管切除術 。
and then we had a snakes and ladders game , where you throw dice .	然後我們拿了一隻蛇和梯子遊戲 , 你扔了骰子 。
if you land on anything profamily planning , you move ahead .	如果你降落在平常的規劃上 , 你就往前走 。
like , " mother takes the pill every night .	比如 「 媽媽每晚都會吃藥 。
very good , mother . move ahead .	非常好 , 媽媽 , 繼續前進 。
uncle buys a condom . very good , uncle . move ahead .	叔叔買保險套 , 很好 , 叔叔 , 繼續前進 。
uncle gets drunk , doesn't use condom . come back , start again . "	叔叔喝醉 , 不用保險套 , 回來 , 再開始 。 」
again , education , class entertainment .	同樣地 , 教育和娛樂 。
and the kids were doing it in school too .	孩子們也在學校做這件事 。
we had relay races with condoms , we had children's condomblowing championship .	我們有保險套的相關種族 , 我們有兒童的保險套冠軍 。
and before long , the condom was know as the girl's best friend .	不久之後 , 保險套被稱為女生最好的朋友 。
in thailand , for poor people , diamonds don't make it so the condom is the girl's best friend .	在泰國 , 對窮人來說 , 鑽石不會把它做成這樣保險套就是女孩最好的朋友 。
we introduced our first microcredit program in 1975 , and the women who organized it said , " we only want to lend to women who practice family planning .	我們在1975年推出了第一個微型貸款計畫 , 組織這個計畫的女性說: 「 我們只想借錢給做家庭規劃的女性 。
if you're pregnant , take care of your pregnancy .	如果你懷孕了 , 照顧懷孕 。
if you're not pregnant , you can take a loan out from us . "	如果你沒懷孕 , 你可以從我們身上借錢 。 」
and that was run by them .	那是他們所經營的 。
and after 35/36 years , it's still going on .	經過35/36年之後 , 它仍然在發生 。
it's a part of the village development bank ; it's not a real bank , but it's a fund microcredit .	它是村落發展銀行的一部分 , 不是真正的銀行 , 而是基金微型貸款 。
and we didn't need a big organization to run it it was run by the villagers themselves .	我們不需要一個大型組織來執行 , 由村民自己經營 。
and you probably hardly see a thai man there , it's always women , women , women , women .	你可能幾乎看不到一個泰國人 , 總是女人、女人、女人 。
and then we thought we'd help america , because america's been helping everyone , whether they want help or not .	接著 , 我們以為我們會協助美國 , 因為美國一直在協助每個人 , 不論他們是否想要協助 。
and this is on the fourth of july .	這是七月四日 。
we decided to provide vasectomy to all men , but in particular , american men to the front of the queue , right up to the ambassador's residence during his [unclear] .	我們決定要為所有男人提供注射器 , 但特別是 , 美國人在排隊前面 , 直接送到大使館的居住地 。
and the hotel gave us the ballroom for it very appropriate room .	旅館給我們一個非常適合的房間 。
and since it was near lunch time , they said , " all right , we'll give you some lunch .	因為午餐時間很近 , 他們說: 「 好吧 , 我們會給你吃午餐 。
of course , it must be american cola .	當然 , 它一定是美國的可樂 。
you get two brands , coke and pepsi .	你有兩個品牌、可口可樂和百事可樂 。
and then the food is either hamburger or hotdog . "	然後食物是漢堡或熱狗 。 」
and i thought a hotdog will be more symbolic .	我想 , 熱狗會比較象徵性 。
and here is this , then , young man called willy bohm who worked for the usaid .	這裡是這位年輕人 , 叫做威廉 , 他為美國國際援助工作 。
obviously , he's had his vasectomy because his hotdog is half eaten , and he was very happy .	很明顯地 , 他有他的切除術 , 因為他的熱狗吃了一半 , 他很開心 。
it made a lot of news in america , and it angered some people also .	它在美國製造了很多新聞 , 也讓一些人感到憤怒 。
i said , " don't worry . come over and i'll do the whole lot of you . "	我說: 「 別擔心 , 過來 , 我會做很多事 。 」
in all this thing , from seven children to 1 . 5 children , population growth rate of 3 . 3 to 0 . 5 .	在這一切中 , 從7個孩子到1.5個小孩 , 人口成長率是3.3到0.5 。
you could call it the cocacola approach if you like it was exactly the same thing .	你可以稱它為可口可樂的方法 , 如果你喜歡它是完全一樣的 。
i'm not sure whether cocacola followed us , or we followed cocacola , but we're good friends .	我不確定可口可樂是否跟隨我們 , 或者我們跟著可口可樂 , 但我們是好朋友 。
and so that's the case of everyone joining in .	這就是所有人加入的案例 。
we didn't have a strong government . we didn't have lots of doctors .	我們沒有強大的政府 。 我們沒有很多醫生 。
but it's everybody's job who can change attitude and behavior .	但每個人都能改變態度和行為 。
then aids came along and hit thailand , and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight aids .	接著 , 愛滋病來到泰國 , 我們必須停止對抗愛滋病的好事 。
but unfortunately , the government was in denial , denial , denial .	但不幸的是 , 政府在否認、否認、否認 。
so our work wasn't affected .	所以我們的工作沒有受到影響 。
so i thought , " well , if you can't go to the government , go to the military . "	所以我想: 「 嗯 , 如果你不能去政府 , 去軍隊 。 」
so i went to the military and asked to borrow 300 radio stations .	所以我去了軍隊 , 要求借300個電台 。
they have more than the government , and they've got more guns than the government .	他們的槍比政府還多 , 他們的槍比政府多 。
so i asked them , could they help us in our fight against hiv .	所以我問他們 , 他們能否幫助我們對抗愛滋病毒 。
and after i gave them statistics , they said , " yes . okay . you can use all the radio stations , television stations . "	在我給他們統計數據之後 , 他們說: 「 是的 , 你可以用所有的電台、電視台 。 」
and that's when we went onto the airwaves .	那時我們就上了飛機 。
and then we got a new prime minister soon after that .	之後 , 我們得到了一個新的總理 。
and he said , " mechai , could you come and join ? "	他說: 「 米奇亞 , 你能來加入嗎 ? 」
he asked me in because he liked my wife a lot .	他問我是因為他很喜歡我太太 。
so i said , " okay . "	我說: 「 好吧 。 」
he became the chairman of the national aids committee and increased the budget fiftyfold .	他成為國家愛滋病委員會的主席 , 增加預算的五十倍 。
every ministry , even judges , had to be involved in aids education everyone and we said the public , institutions , religious institutions , schools everyone was involved .	每個部長 , 甚至法官 , 都必須參與愛滋病教育 , 每一個人 , 我們說 , 大眾、機構、宗教機構、學校 , 每個人都參與 。
and here , every media person had to be trained for hiv .	在這裡 , 每一位媒體人員都必須接受愛滋病的訓練 。
and we gave every station half a minute extra for advertising to earn more money .	我們把每台車額外的半分鐘廣告付出 , 來賺更多錢 。
so they were happy with that .	所以他們對此很滿意 。
and then aids education in all schools , starting from university .	然後所有學校的愛滋病教育從大學開始
and these are high school kids teaching high school kids .	這些高中生教導高中生 。
and the best teachers were the girls , not the boys , and they were terrific .	最好的老師是女生 , 不是男孩 , 他們很棒 。
and these girls who go around teaching about safe sex and hiv were known as mother theresa .	而那些四處教導安全性愛和愛滋病毒的女孩 , 被稱為 「 愛滋病毒 」 。
and then we went down one more step .	然後我們再往下一步 。
these are primary school kids third , fourth grade going to every household in the village , every household in the whole of thailand , giving aids information and a condom to every household , given by these young kids .	這些是第一所學校的孩子三年級 , 四年級到村子裡的每個家庭 , 泰國的每個家庭 , 給予愛滋病的資訊和保險套 , 給每個家庭 , 給這些孩子 。
and no parents objected , because we were trying to save lives , and this was a lifesaver .	沒有任何家長反對 , 因為我們試著拯救生命 , 這是個救命的人 。
and we said , " everyone needs to be involved . "	我們說: 「 每個人都需要參與 。 」
so you have the companies also realizing that sick staff don't work , and dead customers don't buy .	所以 , 你也知道 , 生病人員沒有用 , 而消費者卻沒有購買 。
so they all trained .	所以他們都受過訓練 。
and then we have this captain condom , with his harvard mba , going to schools and night spots .	接著 , 我們有了這個保險套 , 他的哈佛mba , 到學校和夜區 。
and they loved him . you need a symbol of something .	他們很愛他 , 你需要一個象徵 。
in every country , every program , you need a symbol , and this is probably the best thing he's ever done with his mba .	在每個國家 , 每個計畫 , 你都需要一個符號 , 這大概是他與他的mba所做的最好的事 。
and then we gave condoms out everywhere on the streets everywhere , everywhere .	然後我們在街上到處都有保險套 , 到處都有 。
in taxis , you get condoms .	在計程車上 , 你會得到保險套 。
and also , in traffic , the policemen give you condoms our " cops and rubbers " programs .	此外 , 在交通上 , 警察會給你保險套 , 我們的 「 警察 」 計畫 。
so , can you imagine new york policemen giving out condoms ?	所以 , 你能想像紐約警察給保險套嗎 ?
of course i can . and they'd enjoy it immensely ; i see them standing around right now , everywhere .	當然我可以 , 他們會很享受 , 我看到他們現在站在任何地方 。
imagine if they had condoms , giving out to all sorts of people .	想像一下 , 如果他們有保險套 , 送給各式各樣的人 。
and then , new change , we had hair bands , clothing and the condom for your mobile phone during the rainy season .	接著 , 新的改變 , 我們有髮帶、衣服和保險套 , 在雨季時期 , 為你的手機打手機 。
and these were the condoms that we introduced .	這些是我們推出的保險套 。
one says , " weapon of mass protection . "	有人說: 「 大規模保護的武器 。 」
we found you know somebody here was searching for the weapon of mass destruction , but we have found the weapon of mass protection: the condom .	我們發現這裡有人在尋找大規模毀滅性的武器 , 但我們已經找到了大規模保護的武器:保險套 。
and then it says here , with the american flag , " don't leave home without it . "	然後它說 , 美國國旗在這裡 , 上面寫著: 「 不用回家 。 」
but i have some to give out afterward .	但之後我還是得放棄 。
but let me warn you , these are thaisized , so be very careful .	但讓我先警告各位 , 這些都是泰國化 , 所以非常小心 。
and so you can see that condoms can do so many things .	所以你可以看到保險套可以做很多事 。
look at this i gave this to al gore and to bill senior also .	看看這個 , 我把這個給了高爾和比爾•高爾 。
stop global warming ; use condoms .	停止全球暖化使用保險套
and then this is the picture i mentioned to you the weapon of mass protection .	這張照片是我剛才提到的大規模保護的武器
and let the next olympics save some lives .	下一次奧林匹克拯救了一些生命 。
why just run around ?	為什麼要跑來跑去 ?
and then finally , in thailand we're buddhist , we don't have a god , so instead , we say , " in rubber we trust . "	最後 , 在泰國 , 我們是佛教徒 , 我們沒有神 , 反之 , 我們說: 「 在橡膠我們信任 。 」
so you can see that we added everything to our endeavor to make life better for the people .	所以你可以看到 , 我們把一切加到我們的努力 , 讓人民的生活更好 。
we had condoms in all the refrigerators in the hotels and the schools , because alcohol impairs judgment .	我們在旅館和學校的冰箱裡有保險套 , 因為酒精的判斷 。
and then what happened ?	接著 , 發生了什麼事 ?
after all this time , everybody joined in .	畢竟 , 每個人都加入了 。
according to the u . n . , new cases of hiv declined by 90 percent , and according to the world bank , 7 . 7 million lives were saved .	根據聯合國 , 新愛滋病案例減少了90% , 根據世界銀行 , 拯救了770萬條人命 。
otherwise there wouldn't be many thais walking around today .	否則 , 今天沒有太多的泰國人走來走去 。
so it just showed you , you could do something about it .	它只是給你看 , 你可以為它做點什麼 。
90 percent of the funding came from thailand .	90%的資金來自泰國 。
there was political commitment , some financial commitment , and everybody joined in the fight .	有政治承諾 , 有些財務承諾 , 每個人都加入了戰鬥 。
so just don't leave it to the specialists and doctors and nurses .	所以 , 不要把它留給專家、醫生和護士 。
we all need to help .	我們都需要協助 。
and then we decided to help people out of poverty , now that we got aids somewhat out of the way this time , not with government alone , but in cooperation with the business community .	接著 , 我們決定要幫助人們脫離貧窮 , 現在我們得到了愛滋病 , 不是單單靠政府 , 而是和商業界合作 。
because poor people are business people who lack business skills and access to credit .	因為窮人是商人 , 他們缺乏商業技能和功勞 。
those are the things to be provided by the business community .	這些都是商業社群提供的 。
we're trying to turn them into barefoot entrepreneurs , little business people .	我們試著把他們變成赤腳企業家 , 小企業家 。
the only way out of poverty is through business enterprise .	脫貧的唯一方法就是透過企業企業 。
so , that was done .	所以 , 那已經完成了 。
the money goes from the company into the village via treeplanting .	這筆錢從公司到村莊 , 透過樹木移植 。
it's not a free gift .	這不是免費的禮物 。
they plant the trees , and the money goes into their microcredit fund , which we call the village development bank .	他們種樹木 , 金錢進入他們的微型貸款基金 , 我們稱之為村落發展銀行 。
everybody joins in , and they feel they own the bank , because they have brought the money in .	每個人都加入 , 他們覺得自己擁有銀行 , 因為他們把錢帶進來 。
and before you can borrow the money , you need to be trained .	在你借錢之前 , 你需要被訓練 。
and we believe if you want to help the poor , those who are living in poverty , access to credit must be a human right .	我們相信 , 如果你想幫助窮人 , 那些生活在貧窮的人 , 能夠取得信用的人一定是人權 。
access to credit must be a human right .	要取得功勞 , 必須要是人權 。
otherwise they'll never get out of poverty .	否則他們永遠不會脫離貧窮 。
and then before getting a loan , you must be trained .	在取得貸款之前 , 你必須被訓練 。
here's what we call a " barefoot mba , " teaching people how to do business so that , when they borrow money , they'll succeed with the business .	這是我們所謂的 「 赤腳mba 」 , 教導人們如何做生意 , 這樣 , 當他們借錢時 , 他們就會成功 。
these are some of the businesses: mushrooms , crabs , vegetables , trees , fruits , and this is very interesting nike ice cream and nike biscuits ; this is a village sponsored by nike .	這些是一些生意:蘑菇、螃蟹、蔬菜、樹木、水果 , 這非常有意思的nike冰淇淋和nike餅乾 ; 這是一個由nike贊助的村莊 。
they said , " they should stop making shoes and clothes .	他們說: 「 他們應該停止做鞋子和衣服 。
make these better , because we can afford them . "	把這些做得更好 , 因為我們負擔得起 。 」
and then we have silk , thai silk .	然後我們有絲 , 泰國絲 。
now we're making scottish tartans , as you can see on the left , to sell to all people of scottish ancestors .	現在我們正在做蘇格蘭塔安 , 如你所見 , 將蘇格蘭祖先賣給所有蘇格蘭祖先 。
so anyone sitting in and watching tv , get in touch with me .	有人坐著看電視 , 跟我聯絡 。
and then this is our answer to starbucks in thailand " coffee and condoms . "	這是我們在泰國的星巴克《咖啡與保險套》的答案 。
see , starbucks you awake , we keep you awake and alive .	你看 , 星巴克你醒著 , 我們讓你保持清醒和活著 。
can you imagine , at every starbucks that you can also get condoms ?	你能否想像 , 在你能得到保險套的每一顆星巴克 ?
you can order your condoms with your with your cappuccino .	你可以和你的保險套訂購你的保險套 , 用你的卡普奇諾 。
and then now , finally in education , we want to change the school as being underutilized into a place where it's a lifelong learning center for everyone .	現在 , 終於在教育上 , 我們希望把學校改造成不受教育的地方 , 讓每個人成為終身學習中心 。
we call this our schoolbased integrated rural development .	我們稱之為我們以學校為基礎的農村發展 。
and it's a center , a focal point for economic and social development .	它是經濟和社會發展的中心點 。
redo the school , make it serve the community needs .	重新上學 , 讓它服務社區的需求 。
and here is a bamboo building all of them are bamboo .	這裡有一棟竹子建築全部都是竹子 。
this is a geodesic dome made of bamboo .	這是一個由竹子組成的地緣穹頂 。
and i'm sure buckminster fuller would be very , very proud to see a bamboo geodesic dome .	我相信巴克敏斯特•富勒會非常驕傲地看到一個竹子地質的圓頂 。
and we use vegetables around the school ground , so they raise their own vegetables .	我們在學校附近使用蔬菜 , 所以他們養育自己的蔬菜 。
and then , finally , i firmly believe , if we want the mdgs to work the millennium development goals we need to add family planning to it .	最後 , 我堅信 , 如果我們希望mdgs能夠運作千禧年發展目標 , 我們需要加入家庭規劃 。
of course , child mortality first and then family planning everyone needs family planning service it's underutilized .	當然 , 孩童死亡率首先 , 家庭規劃每個人都需要家庭規劃服務 , 它被用盡了 。
so we have now found the weapon of mass protection .	所以我們現在發現了大規模保護的武器 。
and we also ask the next olympics to be involved in saving lives .	我們也要求下一次奧林匹克參與拯救生命的活動 。
and then , finally , that is our network .	最後 , 這就是我們的網路 。
and these are our thai tulips .	這些是我們的泰國霸主 。
thank you very much indeed .	非常謝謝你們 。
your smartphone may feel like a friend but a true friend would give you a smile once in a while . at ted2013 , keller rinaudo demos romo , the smartphonepowered mini robot who can motor along with you on a walk , slide you a cup of coffee across the table , and react to you with programmable expressions .	你的智慧手機可能感覺像個朋友 , 但一個真正的朋友會給你一個微笑 。 在ted2013年 , 克萊納德•羅摩 , 一個智慧型手機驅動的機器人 , 可以和你一起走路 , 幻燈片你一張桌子的咖啡 , 和你做出可程式化的表情反應 。
keller rinaudo: a mini robot powered by your phone	克萊納多:一個迷你機器人 , 由你的手機驅動 。
so just by a show of hands , how many of you all have a robot at home ?	舉手來說 , 在座有多少人家裡都有機器人 ?
not very many of you .	很多人都沒有 。
okay . and actually of those hands , if you don't include roomba how many of you have a robot at home ?	好 , 其實是那些手 , 如果你不包含室巴 , 有多少人家裡有機器人 ?
that's the problem that we're trying to solve at romotive that i and the other 20 nerds at romotive are obsessed with solving .	這就是我們在romotive嘗試解決的問題 , 我和其他20位在romotive的書呆子都很著迷於解決問題 。
so we really want to build a robot that anyone can use , whether you're eight or 80 .	所以我們真的想要建造一個任何人都可以使用的機器人 , 不論你是8或80歲 。
and as it turns out , that's a really hard problem , because you have to build a small , portable robot that's not only really affordable , but it has to be something that people actually want to take home and have around their kids .	結果發現 , 這是個非常困難的問題 , 因為你得要建造一個小型可攜式機器人 , 它不僅是可以負擔得起的 , 而且它必須是人們想要回家 , 帶著孩子們回家的樣子 。
this robot can't be creepy or uncanny .	這個機器人不可能很詭異或不可思議 。
he should be friendly and cute .	他應該是友善的、可愛的 。
romo's a robot that uses a device you already know and love your iphone as his brain .	romo是一個用你已經知道且愛你的iphone的機器人 , 來當作他的大腦 。
and by leveraging the power of the iphone's processor , we can create a robot that is wifi enabled and computer visioncapable for 150 bucks , which is about one percent of what these kinds of robots have cost in the past .	透過iphone的處理器的力量 , 我們就能創造一個可以用wi-fi和電腦視覺處理器的機器人 , 讓150美元的電腦視覺可行 , 這大約是過去機器人所付出的百分之一 。
when romo wakes up , he's in creature mode .	當romo醒來時 , 他就在創造模式中 。
so he's actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face .	所以他實際上是在用這個裝置上的攝影機來追蹤我的臉 。
if i duck down , he'll follow me .	如果我倒下 , 他會跟著我 。
he's wary , so he'll keep his eyes on me .	他很溫暖 , 所以他會盯著我看 。
if i come over here , he'll turn to follow me .	如果我來到這裡 , 他會轉向跟隨我 。
if i come over here he's smart .	如果我來這裡 , 他很聰明 。
and if i get too close to him , he gets scared just like any other creature .	如果我太靠近他 , 他就會嚇到和其他生物一樣 。
so in a lot of ways , romo is like a pet that has a mind of his own .	所以 , 在很多方面 , romo就像一隻有自己的寵物 。
thanks , little guy .	謝謝 , 小傢伙 。
and if i want to explore the world uhoh , romo's tired if i want to explore the world with romo , i can actually connect him from any other ios device .	如果我想要探索這個世界 , romo已經累了如果我想要用romo來探索這個世界 , 我可以把他和其他ios設備連結起來 。
so here's the ipad .	這是ipad 。
and romo will actually stream video to this device .	而romo會把視頻串到這個裝置 。
so i can see everything that romo sees , and i get a robot'seyeview of the world .	所以我可以看到romo所看到的一切 , 我得到了一個機器人的觀點 。
now this is a free app on the app store , so if any of you guys had this app on your phones , we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together .	這是應用程式的免費應用程式 , 如果你們有人在手機上使用這個應用程式 , 我們現在可以一起控制機器人 , 一起玩遊戲 。
so i'll show you really quickly , romo actually he's streaming video , so you can see me and the entire ted audience .	我很快地給你們看romo , 他在串流影片 , 所以你們可以看到我和ted的觀眾 。
if i get in front of romo here .	如果我來到romo前面 。
and if i want to control him , i can just drive .	如果我想要控制他 , 我就可以開車 。
so i can drive him around , and i can take pictures of you .	我可以帶他到處開車 , 拍下你們的照片 。
i've always wanted a picture of a 1 , 500person ted audience .	我一直都想要一張1 , 500個ted觀眾的照片 。
so i'll snap a picture .	我會拍一張照片 。
and in the same way that you scroll through content on an ipad , i can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device .	就像你在ipad上翻閱內容一樣 , 我可以在儀器上調整相機的角度 。
so there are all of you through romo's eyes .	所以 , 你們所有人都透過romo的眼睛 。
and finally , because romo is an extension of me , i can express myself through his emotions .	最後 , 因為romo是我的延伸 , 我可以透過他的情緒表達自己 。
so i can go in and i can say let's make romo excited .	所以我可以進去 , 我可以說 , 讓我們來做romo興奮 。
but the most important thing about romo is that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive .	但romo最重要的是 , 我們想創造一個完全直覺的東西 。
you do not have to teach someone how to drive romo .	你不需要教別人如何開romo 。
in fact , who would like to drive a robot ?	事實上 , 誰想開一個機器人 ?
thank you , scott .	謝謝你 , 史考特
and even cooler , you actually don't have to be in the same geographic location as the robot to control him .	更酷的是 , 你其實不需要和機器人在相同的地理位置來控制他 。
so he actually streams twoway audio and video between any two smart devices .	所以他實際上在任何兩個智能裝置之間串連了雙向音頻和影片 。
so you can log in through the browser , and it's kind of like skype on wheels .	你可以在瀏覽器上登入 , 有點像輪子上的skype 。
so we were talking before about telepresence , and this is a really cool example .	我們先前談到遠端臨界 , 這是個很酷的例子 。
you can imagine an eightyearold girl , for example , who has an iphone , and her mom buys her a robot .	舉例來說 , 你可以想像一個八歲的女孩 , 她有iphone , 她媽媽買了她的機器人 。
that girl can take her iphone , put it on the robot , send an email to grandma , who lives on the other side of the country .	那個女孩可以拿她的iphone , 把它放到機器人上 , 寄電子郵件給祖母 , 住在這個國家的另一邊 。
grandma can log into that robot and play hideandgoseek with her granddaughter for fifteen minutes every single night , when otherwise she might only be able to get to see her granddaughter once or twice a year .	祖母可以登入那台機器人 , 和她的孫女玩隱匿號 , 每晚十五分鐘 , 否則她可能只能看到她孫女每年一次或兩次 。
so those are a couple of the really cool things that romo can do today .	這些是現今romo可以做的一些很酷的事 。
but i just want to finish by talking about something that we're working on in the future .	但我只想談談我們未來正在努力的事物 。
this is actually something that one of our engineers , dom , built in a weekend .	這其實是我們其中一個工程師 , 一個週末建造的 。
it's built on top of a google open framework called blockly .	它是建立在google開放式的架構上 , 叫做街區 。
this allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic code and create any behavior for this robot you want .	這樣你就可以拖著這些語義代碼 , 創造出任何你想要的機器人行為 。
you do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for romo .	你不需要知道如何為romo創造一個行為 。
and you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser , which is what you see romo doing on the left .	你可以模擬瀏覽器的行為 , 左邊是romo在做的事 。
and then if you have something you like , you can download it onto your robot and execute it in real life , run the program in real life .	如果你有你喜歡的東西 , 你可以下載它到你的機器人上 , 在現實生活中執行它 , 在現實生活中執行程式 。
and then if you have something you're proud of , you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world .	如果你有讓你驕傲的東西 , 你可以和世界上所有擁有機器人的人分享 。
so all of these wifi–enabled robots actually learn from each other .	所有這些無線網路的機器人 , 都能互相學習 。
the reason we're so focused on building robots that everyone can train is that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal .	我們之所以如此專注在建造人人人都可以訓練的機器人 , 是因為我們認為在個人機器人學中 , 最具吸引力的使用案例是個人的 。
they change from person to person .	他們從人轉變為人 。
so we think that if you're going to have a robot in your home , that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination .	所以 , 我們認為 , 如果你在家裡有機器人 , 那機器人應該是你自己的想像力 。
so i wish that i could tell you what the future of personal robotics looks like .	所以我希望我能告訴你們個人機器人的未來是什麼樣子 。
to be honest , i have no idea .	老實說 , 我不知道 。
but what we do know is that it isn't 10 years or 10 billion dollars or a large humanoid robot away .	但我們確實知道 , 要花10年或100億美金或大型人造機器人 。
the future of personal robotics is happening today , and it's going to depend on small , agile robots like romo and the creativity of people like yourselves .	個人機器人的未來正在發生 , 它將會取決於小型、敏捷的機器人 , 像是romo , 以及像你們這樣的人的創造力 。
so we can't wait to get you all robots , and we can't wait to see what you build .	所以 , 我們等不及要給你所有機器人 , 我們等不及要看到你打造了什麼 。
author and activist isabel allende discusses women , creativity , the definition of feminism and , of course , passion in this talk .	作者和激進主義的伊莎貝爾會討論女性、創造力、女性主義的定義 , 當然 , 還有這場演講的熱情 。
entertainment , global issues , love , parenting , storytelling , women , world cultures	娛樂、全球議題、愛、養育、說故事、女人、世界文化、文化、文化、女人 。
isabel allende tells tales of passion	伊莎貝爾•阿爾德說過關於熱情的故事 ,
thank you so much . it's really scary to be here among the smartest of the smart .	非常謝謝你們 。 非常嚇人的是 , 在這裡 , 最聰明的 。
i'm here to tell you a few tales of passion .	我來這裡是要告訴你們幾個關於熱情的故事 。
there's a jewish saying that i love .	有一個猶太人說我愛 。
what is truer than truth ? answer: the story .	什麼比真理更真實 ? 答案:故事 。
i'm a storyteller . i want to convey something that is truer than truth about our common humanity .	我是一個說故事的人 。 我想傳達一個比我們共同人性更為真實的東西 。
all stories interest me , and some haunt me until i end up writing them .	所有故事都讓我很感興趣 , 直到我最後寫了它們 。
certain themes keep coming up: justice , loyalty , violence , death , political and social issues , freedom .	有些主題不斷出現:正義、忠誠、暴力、死亡、政治和社會議題、自由 。
i'm aware of the mystery around us , so i write about coincidences , premonitions , emotions , dreams , the power of nature , magic .	我意識到我們身邊的神秘 , 所以我寫了關於巧合、預示、情緒、夢想、大自然的力量、魔法 。
in the last 20 years i have published a few books , but i have lived in anonymity until february of 2006 , when i carried the olympic flag in the winter olympics in italy .	在過去20年 , 我發表了幾本書 , 但我直到2006年二月 , 當我在義大利的冬季奧運會中帶著奧運 。
that made me a celebrity . now people recognize me in macy's , and my grandchildren think that i'm cool .	這讓我成為了名人 。 現在人們認得我在馬西的名人 , 我的孫子認為我很酷 。
allow me to tell you about my four minutes of fame .	讓我告訴你我四分鐘的名聲 。
one of the organizers of the olympic ceremony , of the opening ceremony , called me and said that i had been selected to be one of the flagbearers .	奧林匹克典禮的組織者之一 , 打電話給我 , 說我被選為國旗辯護者之一 。
i replied that surely this was a case of mistaken identity because i'm as far as you can get from being an athlete .	我回答 , 這絕對是個錯誤認同的案例 , 因為我可以從運動員的身分中得知 。
actually , i wasn't even sure that i could go around the stadium without a walker .	其實 , 我甚至不確定我可以走在體育場 , 不用步行 。
i was told that this was no laughing matter .	我被告知這不是笑物 。
this would be the first time that only women would carry the olympic flag .	這是第一次 , 只有女性會帶著奧運旗幟 。
five women , representing five continents , and three olympic gold medal winners .	五位女性代表五大洲 , 三位奧運金牌獎得主 。
my first question was , naturally , what was i going to wear ?	我的第一個問題是 , 很自然地 , 我要穿什麼 ?
a uniform , she said , and asked for my measurements .	她說 , 制服 , 要求我的測量標準 。
i had a vision of myself in a fluffy anorak , looking like the michelin man .	我有自己的遠景 , 在流行的動作中 , 看起來就像米其林人 。
by the middle of february , i found myself in turin , where enthusiastic crowds cheered when any of the 80 olympic teams was in the street .	到了二月中期 , 我在土耳其 , 那裡充滿熱情的群眾在任何80個奧運隊伍都在街上 。
those athletes had sacrificed everything to compete in the games .	那些運動員犧牲了所有比賽中的一切 。
they all deserved to win , but there's the element of luck .	他們都值得贏 , 但還有運氣的元素 。
a speck of snow , an inch of ice , the force of the wind , can determine the result of a race or a game .	一口雪 , 一英吋的冰 , 風力的力量 , 可以決定種族或遊戲的結果 。
however , what matters most more than training or luck is the heart .	然而 , 比訓練或運氣更重要的是心臟 。
only a fearless and determined heart will get the gold medal .	只有無懼且堅定的心才能得到金牌 。
it is all about passion .	一切都和熱情有關 。
the streets of turin were covered with red posters announcing the slogan of the olympics .	土耳其的街道被紅海報覆蓋 , 宣佈奧運的口號 。
passion lives here . isn't it always true ?	熱情在這裡 , 這不是真的嗎 ?
heart is what drives us and determines our fate .	心就是驅使我們、決定我們的命運 。
that is what i need for my characters in my books: a passionate heart .	這就是我書中的角色所需要的:熱情心 。
i need mavericks , dissidents , adventurers , outsiders and rebels , who ask questions , bend the rules and take risks .	我需要大把、異議者、冒險家、局外人和叛軍 , 他們會問問題、彎曲規則、冒險 。
people like all of you in this room .	像在座各位一樣的人 。
nice people with common sense do not make interesting characters .	有常識的人並不會做出有趣的角色 。
they only make good former spouses .	他們只能做好之前的配偶 。
in the green room of the stadium , i met the other flag bearers: three athletes , and the actresses susan sarandon and sophia loren .	在體育場的綠色房間裡 , 我遇到了其他旗幟:三位運動員 , 女演員蘇珊撒旦和蘇菲亞羅倫 。
also , two women with passionate hearts: wangari maathai , the nobel prizewinner from kenya who has planted 30 million trees . and by doing so , she has changed the soil , the weather , in some places in africa , and of course the economic conditions in many villages .	此外 , 兩個有熱情的女性:旺加里•馬塔伊 , 肯亞諾貝爾獎得主種了三千萬棵樹 。 藉由這麼做 , 她改變了土壤、天氣 , 在非洲的某些地方 , 當然 , 許多村莊的經濟條件 。
and somaly mam , a cambodian activist who fights passionately against child prostitution .	一位柬埔寨激進分子 , 他熱情對抗兒童賣淫 。
when she was 14 years old , her grandfather sold her to a brothel .	當她14歲時 , 她的祖父賣給妓院 。
she told us of little girls raped by men who believe that having sex with a very young virgin will cure them from aids .	她告訴我們 , 小女孩被男人強暴 , 她們相信 , 和很年輕的處女做愛 , 會讓他們從愛滋病中治癒 。
and of brothels where children are forced to receive five , 15 clients per day , and if they rebel , they are tortured with electricity .	每天有五、十五個客戶被迫要收到的妓院 , 如果她們反抗 , 她們就會受到電力的折磨 。
in the green room i received my uniform .	在綠色的房間裡 , 我收到了我的制服 。
it was not the kind of outfit that i normally wear , but it was far from the michelin man suit that i had anticipated . not bad , really .	這不是我平常穿的衣服 , 但距離我預期的米其林男士西服還很遠 。 真的不錯 。
i looked like a refrigerator .	我看起來像是冰箱 。
but so did most of the flagbearers , except sophia loren , the universal symbol of beauty and passion .	但大部分的旗幟家 , 除了蘇菲雅洛倫 , 美麗和熱情的普遍象徵 。
sophia is over 70 and she looks great .	蘇菲雅七十多歲 , 她看起來很棒 。
she's sexy , slim and tall , with a deep tan .	她很性感 , 很脆弱 , 很高 , 有很深的色彩 。
now , how can you have a deep tan and have no wrinkles ?	現在 , 你要如何有深色的坦承 ? 沒有皺紋 ?
when asked in a tv interview , " how could she look so good ? "	當電視訪談問問: 「 她怎麼會看起來這麼好 ? 」
she replied , " posture . my back is always straight , and i don't make old people's noises . "	她回答說: 「 姿勢 。 我的背總是直直直的 , 我沒有發出老人的噪音 。 」
so , there you have some free advice from one of the most beautiful women on earth .	所以 , 這裡有一些免費的建議來自地球上最美麗的女性之一 。
no grunting , no coughing , no wheezing , no talking to yourselves , no farting .	不發言、不咳嗽、不發臭、不跟自己說話 , 不至於遙控 。
well , she didn't say that exactly .	嗯 , 她並沒有那麼說 。
at some point around midnight , we were summoned to the wings of the stadium , and the loudspeakers announced the olympic flag , and the music started by the way , the same music that starts here , the aida march .	在午夜的時候 , 我們被召喚到體育場的翅膀 , 聲響者宣佈奧運旗 , 順便一提 , 音樂起始於這邊的同一音樂 , aida遊行 。
sophia loren was right in front of me she's a foot taller than i am , not counting the poofy hair .	蘇菲雅羅倫就在我面前 , 她比我高 , 不算毛毛毛髮 。
she walked elegantly , like a giraffe on the african savannah , holding the flag on her shoulder . i jogged behind on my tiptoes holding the flag on my extended arm , so that my head was actually under the damn flag .	她優雅地走路 , 就像非洲大草原上的長頸鹿 , 她肩上拿著旗子 。 我穿著我的尖端把旗子放在我的伸展手上 , 這樣我的頭其實就在旗子底下 。
all the cameras were , of course , on sophia .	當然 , 所有攝影機都是在蘇菲亞 。
that was fortunate for me , because in most press photos i appear too , although often between sophia's legs .	這對我來說很幸運 , 因為在大部分的媒體照片中我也出現了 , 儘管我常在蘇菲亞的腿之間 。
a place where most men would love to be .	一個大部分男人都喜歡的地方 。
the best four minutes of my entire life were those in the olympic stadium .	我一生中最好的四分鐘就是那些在奧林匹克體育場的人 。
my husband is offended when i say this although i have explained to him that what we do in private usually takes less than four minutes so he shouldn't take it personally .	我先生在我說這句話時被冒犯了 , 雖然我向他解釋過 , 我們在私人身上做的事通常花不到四分鐘 , 所以他不該親自服用 。
i have all the press clippings of those four magnificent minutes , because i don't want to forget them when old age destroys my brain cells .	我有這四分鐘的按鈕 , 因為我不想忘記它們 , 老時破壞我的大腦細胞 。
i want to carry in my heart forever the key word of the olympics passion .	我想永遠帶著我的心 , 帶著奧林匹克熱情的關鍵字 。
so here's a tale of passion .	這是個充滿熱情的故事 。
the year is 1998 , the place is a prison camp for tutsi refugees in congo .	1998年 , 這個地方是剛果的土桑難民營 。
by the way , 80 percent of all refugees and displaced people in the world are women and girls .	順道一提 , 世界上百分之八十的難民是女性和女孩 。
we can call this place in congo a death camp , because those who are not killed will die of disease or starvation .	我們可以稱之為剛果死亡營 , 因為那些沒有被殺的人會死於疾病或飢餓 。
the protagonists of this story are a young woman , rose mapendo , and her children .	這個故事的主角是一位年輕的女子 , 蘿絲•地圖 , 和她的孩子 。
she's pregnant and a widow .	她懷孕和寡婦 。
soldiers have forced her to watch as her husband was tortured and killed .	士兵強迫她看她的丈夫被虐待並殺害 。
somehow she manages to keep her seven children alive , and a few months later , she gives birth to premature twins .	不知怎麼的 , 她成功讓她七個孩子活著 , 幾個月後 , 她生了雙胞胎 。
two tiny little boys .	兩個小男孩 。
she cuts the umbilical cord with a stick , and ties it with her own hair .	她用棍子剪下麻痺的線 , 用她自己的頭髮綁起來 。
she names the twins after the camp's commanders to gain their favor , and feeds them with black tea because her milk cannot sustain them .	她以營地指揮官的名字命名為雙胞胎 , 以取得他們的偏好 , 用黑色茶餵給他們 , 因為她的牛奶無法維持它們 。
when the soldiers burst in her cell to rape her oldest daughter , she grabs hold of her and refuses to let go , even when they hold a gun to her head .	當她的牢房裡的士兵強暴她最老的女兒時 , 她抓住她並拒絕放手 , 即使他們拿著槍到她的頭上 。
somehow , the family survives for 16 months , and then , by extraordinary luck , and the passionate heart of a young american man , sasha chanoff , who manages to put her in a u . s . rescue plane , rose mapendo and her nine children end up in phoenix , arizona , where they're now living and thriving .	不知怎麼的 , 家人存活了16個月 , 接著 , 幸運的是 , 年輕的美國人 , 薩夏.查諾夫的熱情 , 他成功地把她放進美國救援機、羅塞.地圖和她的九個孩子 , 最後到達了亞利桑那州鳳凰城 , 他們現在住在和茁壯的地方 。
mapendo , in swahili , means great love .	在斯瓦希里 , 地圖意味著偉大的愛 。
the protagonists of my books are strong and passionate women like rose mapendo .	我書裡的主角是強壯且有熱情的女性 , 像是羅斯•繪圖 。
i don't make them up . there's no need for that .	我不做這些 , 也不需要這樣做 。
i look around and i see them everywhere .	我環顧四周 , 到處都看到它們 。
i have worked with women and for women all my life .	我一生都和女性合作過 。
i know them well .	我很了解他們 。
i was born in ancient times , at the end of the world , in a patriarchal catholic and conservative family .	我出生在古代的時代 , 在世界末期 , 在父權天主教和保守家庭 。
no wonder that by age five i was a raging feminist although the term had not reached chile yet , so nobody knew what the heck was wrong with me .	難怪在我五歲時 , 我是個憤怒的女權主義者 , 雖然這個詞還沒到智利 , 所以沒人知道我有什麼問題 。
i would soon find out that there was a high price to pay for my freedom , and for questioning the patriarchy .	我很快就會發現 , 我的自由價格很高 , 且要質疑父權制度 。
but i was happy to pay it , because for every blow that i received , i was able to deliver two .	但我很高興能支付它 , 因為每次我收到的炸彈 , 我都能遞送兩次 。
once , when my daughter paula was in her twenties , she said to me that feminism was dated , that i should move on .	有一次 , 當我女兒保羅亞在二十多歲時 , 她對我說女權主義是約會的 , 我應該繼續走下去 。
we had a memorable fight . feminism is dated ?	我們有不可思議的鬥爭 。 女權主義約會了嗎 ?
yes , for privileged women like my daughter and all of us here today , but not for most of our sisters in the rest of the world who are still forced into premature marriage , prostitution , forced labor they have children that they don't want or they cannot feed .	是的 , 對於像我女兒和在場的優勢女性來說 , 但對世界上大部分的姊妹來說 , 她們仍然被強迫要結婚、賣淫、強迫勞動 , 她們有不想要的孩子 , 或無法餵食 。
they have no control over their bodies or their lives .	他們沒有控制身體或生活 。
they have no education and no freedom .	他們沒有教育 , 也沒有自由 。
they are raped , beaten up and sometimes killed with impunity .	他們被強暴、被毆打 , 有時會因為不幸而被殺 。
for most western young women of today , being called a feminist is an insult .	現今大部分的西方年輕女性被稱為女性主義者是侮辱者 。
feminism has never been sexy , but let me assure you that it never stopped me from flirting , and i have seldom suffered from lack of men .	女性主義從來沒有很性感 , 但讓我向各位保證 , 女性主義從來沒有阻止我調情 , 我也遭受缺乏男性的苦難 。
feminism is not dead , by no means .	女權主義不是死的 , 沒有意義 。
it has evolved . if you don't like the term , change it , for goddess' sake .	它進化了 。 如果你不喜歡這個詞 , 改變它 , 對女神的sake而言 。
call it aphrodite , or venus , or bimbo , or whatever you want ; the name doesn't matter , as long as we understand what it is about , and we support it .	稱之為蚜蟲 , 維納斯 , 或bimbo , 或任何你想要的東西 ; 名字並不重要 , 只要我們了解它是什麼 , 我們就支持它 。
so here's another tale of passion , and this is a sad one .	這裡還有另一個關於熱情的故事 , 這是個悲傷的故事 。
the place is a small women's clinic in a village in bangladesh .	這個地方是一個孟加拉村莊的婦女診所 。
the year is 2005 .	2005年 。
jenny is a young american dental hygienist who has gone to the clinic as a volunteer during her threeweek vacation .	珍妮是一位年輕的美國牙醫 , 她去診所當志工 , 在她的三週假期間 。
she's prepared to clean teeth , but when she gets there , she finds out that there are no doctors , no dentists , and the clinic is just a hut full of flies .	她準備好要清潔牙齒 , 但當她到達那裡時 , 她發現沒有醫生 , 沒有牙醫 , 診所只是一個充滿蒼蠅的小屋 。
outside , there is a line of women who have waited several hours to be treated .	外面有一排婦女等了好幾個小時被治療 。
the first patient is in excruciating pain because she has several rotten molars .	第一位病人處於極度痛苦的狀態 , 因為她有幾種腐爛的瘧疾 。
jenny realizes that the only solution is to pull out the bad teeth .	珍妮知道 , 唯一的解決方案就是拉出不好的牙齒 。
she's not licensed for that ; she has never done it .	她沒有執照 , 她從來沒有做過 。
she risks a lot and she's terrified .	她的風險很大 , 她很害怕 。
she doesn't even have the proper instruments , but fortunately she has brought some novocaine .	她甚至沒有適當的樂器 , 但幸運的是 , 她帶來了一些諾伏卡因 。
jenny has a brave and passionate heart .	珍妮有勇氣和熱情 。
she murmurs a prayer and she goes ahead with the operation .	她謀殺了禱告 , 繼續向前邁進 。
at the end , the relieved patient kisses her hands .	最後 , 鬆軟的病人親吻她 。
that day the hygienist pulls out many more teeth .	那天 , 衛生主義者把更多的牙齒拿出來 。
the next morning , when she comes again to the socalled clinic , her first patient is waiting for her with her husband .	第二天早上 , 當她再次到所謂的診所時 , 她的第一個病人正在等她丈夫 。
the woman's face looks like a watermelon .	女人的臉看起來像水母 。
it is so swollen that you can't even see the eyes .	腫脹到你甚至看不到眼睛 。
the husband , furious , threatens to kill the american .	丈夫、憤怒、威脅要殺美國 。
jenny is horrified at what she has done , but then the translator explains that the patient's condition has nothing to do with the operation .	珍妮對她所做的事感到害怕 , 但翻譯說明病人的狀況和手術無關 。
the day before , her husband beat her up because she was not home in time to prepare dinner for him .	前一天 , 她丈夫打敗她 , 因為她沒有家準備晚餐給他 。
millions of women live like this today .	現今有數百萬的女性像這樣生活 。
they are the poorest of the poor .	他們是最貧窮的人 。
although women do twothirds of the world's labor , they own less than one percent of the world's assets .	儘管世界上三分之二的婦女在做勞動 , 他們擁有不到百分之一的世界資產 。
they are paid less than men for the same work if they're paid at all , and they remain vulnerable because they have no economic independence , and they are constantly threatened by exploitation , violence and abuse .	他們的薪水低於同一份工作 , 如果他們付錢 , 他們仍然很脆弱 , 因為他們沒有經濟獨立 , 而且他們經常受到剝削、暴力和虐待的威脅 。
it is a fact that giving women education , work , the ability to control their own income , inherit and own property , benefits the society .	事實上 , 給予女性教育、工作、控制她們自己的收入、繼承和財產的能力 , 讓社會受益 。
if a woman is empowered , her children and her family will be better off .	如果一個女人被賦權 , 她的孩子和家人會更好 。
if families prosper , the village prospers , and eventually so does the whole country .	如果家人繁榮 , 村莊繁榮 , 最終 , 整個國家也一樣 。
wangari maathai goes to a village in kenya .	wangarimaathai去肯亞的一個村莊 。
she talks with the women and explains that the land is barren because they have cut and sold the trees .	她和婦女談話 , 解釋說土地是荒廢的 , 因為他們砍了樹 , 賣掉樹 。
she gets the women to plant new trees and water them , drop by drop .	她讓婦女種植新的樹和水 , 掉下去 。
in a matter of five or six years , they have a forest , the soil is enriched , and the village is saved .	大約五、六年後 , 他們有森林 , 土壤被充足 , 村落被拯救了 。
the poorest and most backward societies are always those that put women down .	最貧窮、最後退的社會 , 總是那些會讓女性失望的人 。
yet this obvious truth is ignored by governments and also by philanthropy .	但這個顯而易見的事實卻被政府和慈善機構忽視 。
for every dollar given to a women's program , 20 dollars are given to men's programs .	給女性專案的每一塊錢 , 有20元給男性專案 。
women are 51 percent of humankind .	女性佔人類的51% 。
empowering them will change everything more than technology and design and entertainment .	給予他們力量 , 會改變一切 , 不僅僅是科技、設計和娛樂 。
i can promise you that women working together linked , informed and educated can bring peace and prosperity to this forsaken planet .	我可以向各位保證 , 女性一起工作 , 連結、有知識、受教育 , 能帶給這個被偽造的星球帶來和平和繁榮 。
in any war today , most of the casualties are civilians , mainly women and children . they are collateral damage .	在任何戰爭中 , 大部分的傷亡都是平民百姓 , 主要是婦女和兒童 。 她們是殘酷的傷害 。
men run the world , and look at the mess we have .	男人經營世界 , 看看我們所擁有的混亂 。
what kind of world do we want ?	我們想要什麼樣的世界 ?
this is a fundamental question that most of us are asking .	這是我們大部分人都在問的一個根本的問題 。
does it make sense to participate in the existing world order ?	參與現有的世界秩序是合理的嗎 ?
we want a world where life is preserved and the quality of life is enriched for everybody , not only for the privileged .	我們想要一個保存生命的世界 , 生活品質對所有人都豐富的世界 , 不只是為了特權 。
in january i saw an exhibit of fernando botero's paintings at the uc berkeley library .	一月我看到費南多•博特歐在加州柏克萊圖書館的畫作 。
no museum or gallery in the united states , except for the new york gallery that carries botero's work , has dared to show the paintings because the theme is the abu ghraib prison .	美國沒有博物館或畫廊 , 除了紐約畫廊 , 卡里斯•波特歐的作品 , 還敢展示這幅畫 , 因為主題是阿布格拉伊監獄 。
they are huge paintings of torture and abuse of power , in the voluminous botero style .	它們是巨大的折磨和濫用權力的畫作 , 用的是大型的波特羅風格 。
i have not been able to get those images out of my mind or my heart .	我無法從我的腦中或我的心中取得這些影像 。
what i fear most is power with impunity .	我最害怕的就是權力 。
i fear abuse of power , and the power to abuse .	我害怕濫用權力 , 以及濫用權力的力量 。
in our species , the alpha males define reality , and force the rest of the pack to accept that reality and follow the rules .	在我們這個物種中 , 雄性領袖定義現實 , 並強迫其他群體接受現實並遵守規則 。
the rules change all the time , but they always benefit them , and in this case , the trickledown effect , which does not work in economics , works perfectly .	規則隨時都在改變 , 但他們總是受惠 , 在這個例子中 , 技巧效應並不適用於經濟 , 完全適用 。
abuse trickles down from the top of the ladder to the bottom .	從梯子的頂部到底部的虐待 。
women and children , especially the poor , are at the bottom .	女性和孩子 , 特別是窮人 , 都在最底層 。
even the most destitute of men have someone they can abuse a woman or a child .	即使是最高的男性 , 她們也能虐待女人或小孩 。
i'm fed up with the power that a few exert over the many through gender , income , race , and class .	我得到了一些力量 , 透過性別、收入、種族、和階級 。
i think that the time is ripe to make fundamental changes in our civilization .	我認為 , 時機是對我們的文明做出根本的改變 。
but for real change , we need feminine energy in the management of the world .	但為了真正的改變 , 我們需要全世界的女性能源 。
we need a critical number of women in positions of power , and we need to nurture the feminine energy in men .	我們需要數不清的女性在權力的位置 , 我們需要培養男性的女性能源 。
i'm talking about men with young minds , of course .	我說的當然是年輕人 。
old guys are hopeless ; we have to wait for them to die off .	老年人無助 , 我們必須等待他們死去 。
yes , i would love to have sophia loren's long legs and legendary breasts .	是的 , 我很想有蘇菲雅羅倫的長腿和傳奇的胸部 。
but given a choice , i would rather have the warrior hearts of wangari maathai , somaly mam , jenny and rose mapendo .	但 , 根據一個選擇 , 我寧願有勇氣的心 , 像是威加利馬塔伊 , 索瑪利媽 , 珍妮和羅斯地圖 。
i want to make this world good .	我想要讓這個世界變得更好 。
not better , but to make it good .	不是更好 , 而是要讓它更好 。
why not ? it is possible . look around in this room all this knowledge , energy , talent and technology .	為什麼不 ? 是有可能的 。 看看這個房間裡的所有知識、能源、天賦和科技 。
let's get off our fannies , roll up our sleeves and get to work , passionately , in creating an almost perfect world .	讓我們擺脫我們的炫耀 , 捲起袖子 , 熱情地 , 創造一個幾乎完美的世界 。
every day , in a city the size of london , 30 million meals are served . but where does all the food come from ? architect carolyn steel discusses the daily miracle of feeding a city , and shows how ancient food routes shaped the modern world .	每天 , 在倫敦大小的城市中 , 有三千萬餐是用的 。 但是 , 所有的食物是從哪裡來的 ? 建築師卡洛琳•史特爾討論了每天餵食城市的奇蹟 , 展示了古老食物路徑如何塑造了現代世界 。
cities , culture , food , global issues	城市、文化、食物、全球議題、全球議題、
carolyn steel: how food shapes our cities	卡羅琳•史黛爾:食物如何塑造我們的城市 , 如何塑造我們的城市 。
how do you feed a city ?	你要如何餵飽一個城市 ?
it's one of the great questions of our time .	這是我們時代最偉大的問題之一 。
yet it's one that's rarely asked .	但卻很少被問到 。
we take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant , or indeed into this theater's foyer in about an hour's time , there is going to be food there waiting for us , having magically come from somewhere .	我們視為理所當然 , 如果我們去一家商店或餐廳 , 或在一個小時內 , 就會有食物在等著我們 , 神奇地從某處來 。
but when you think that every day for a city the size of london , enough food has to be produced , transported , bought and sold , cooked , eaten , disposed of , and that something similar has to happen every day for every city on earth , it's remarkable that cities get fed at all .	但當你認為 , 對於倫敦大小的城市來說 , 每天都要生產出足夠的食物 , 運輸、購買、煮飯、吃、丟掉這些東西 , 每天都要發生在地球上的每個城市 , 都很了不起 。
we live in places like this as if they're the most natural things in the world , forgetting that because we're animals and that we need to eat , we're actually as dependent on the natural world as our ancient ancestors were .	我們生活在像這樣的地方 , 彷彿它們是世界上最自然的事物 , 因為我們是動物 , 我們需要吃 , 事實上我們和古老祖先一樣依賴自然界 。
and as more of us move into cities , more of that natural world is being transformed into extraordinary landscapes like the one behind me it's soybean fields in mato grosso in brazil in order to feed us .	隨著越來越多人搬進城市 , 越多的自然世界 , 被轉變成像我身後的那樣非凡的景觀 , 它是巴西馬托格羅索的大豆田 , 目的是要餵飽我們 。
these are extraordinary landscapes , but few of us ever get to see them .	這些是非凡的地景 , 但很少人能看到它們 。
and increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either .	越來越多的地景不僅僅是餵飽我們 。
as more of us move into cities , more of us are eating meat , so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals .	隨著越多人搬進城市 , 我們就越多人吃肉 , 所以每年全球農作物中有三分之一的食物會被餵給動物 , 而不是我們人類的動物 。
and given that it takes three times as much grain actually ten times as much grain to feed a human if it's passed through an animal first , that's not a very efficient way of feeding us .	由於這需要三倍的穀物 , 實際上是十倍的穀物餵飽人類 , 如果是先通過動物的話 , 那不是非常有效率的方式來餵飽我們 。
and it's an escalating problem too .	問題也在惡化 。
by 2050 , it's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities .	到了2050年 , 據估計 , 我們所居住的城市數量會是兩倍 。
and it's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed .	據估計 , 有兩倍的肉類和乳房消耗量 。
so meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand .	所以肉類和城市主義在手上升 。
and that's going to pose an enormous problem .	這將會帶來一個巨大的問題 。
six billion hungry carnivores to feed , by 2050 .	到2050年 , 挨餓的六十億人挨餓 。
that's a big problem . and actually if we carry on as we are , it's a problem we're very unlikely to be able to solve .	這是個大問題 。 事實上 , 如果我們繼續下去 , 這個問題就不太可能解決 。
nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land .	每年有九百萬公頃的雨林被砍伐 , 來創造新的耕地 。
although at the same time we're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion .	儘管同時 , 我們也失去了相當大量的耕種能力 , 來鹽和侵蝕 。
we're very hungry for fossil fuels too .	我們也很渴望石化燃料 。
it takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the west .	大約需要10卡路里才能生產西方的每一卡路里的食物 。
and even though there is food that we are producing at great cost , we don't actually value it .	即便如此 , 我們在生產大量成本的食物 , 我們也不重視它 。
half the food produced in the usa is currently thrown away .	美國生產的一半的食物現在被丟棄了 。
and to end all of this , at the end of this long process , we're not even managing to feed the planet properly .	為了結束這一切 , 在這個長程結束時 , 我們甚至沒有適當地餵飽地球 。
a billion of us are obese , while a further billion starve .	十億人肥胖 , 同時又有十億人挨餓 。
none of it makes very much sense .	這一點都不合理 。
and when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations , it's a grim picture .	當你認為現在全球80%的食物貿易只由五間跨國企業所控制 , 這是一張可怕的照片 。
as we're moving into cities , the world is also embracing a western diet .	當我們進入城市時 , 世界也擁抱西方飲食 。
and if we look to the future , it's an unsustainable diet .	如果我們去看未來 , 它是一種不永續的飲食 。
so how did we get here ?	我們是怎麼走到這一步的 ?
and more importantly , what are we going to do about it ?	更重要的是 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , to answer the slightly easier question first , about 10 , 000 years ago , i would say , is the beginning of this process in the ancient near east , known as the fertile crescent .	首先 , 要回答稍微簡單的問題 , 大約一萬年前 , 我會說 , 這個過程是在古老的東邊 , 稱為 「 肥沃 」 。
because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .	因為 , 如你所見 , 正如你所見 , 正如你所見 , 正如你所看到的 , 正如你所看到的 ,
and it was also fertile .	同時也是肥沃 。
and it was here , about 10 , 000 years ago , that two extraordinary inventions , agriculture and urbanism , happened roughly in the same place and at the same time .	大約在一萬年前 , 這兩種非凡的發明 , 農業和城市化 , 發生在同一個地方 , 同時也發生了 。
this is no accident , because agriculture and cities are bound together . they need each other .	這並不意外 , 因為農業和城市是相互連結的 。 他們需要彼此 。
because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements .	因為這是我們古老祖先第一次發現穀物 , 製造出足夠大且穩定的食物來源 , 來支撐永久的定居地 。
and if we look at what those settlements were like , we see they were compact .	如果我們看看這些定居處的樣子 , 我們會看到它們是緊密的 。
they were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at ur , that were , in fact , effectively , spiritualized , central food distribution centers .	他們被生產力的農場包圍 , 被大型的寺廟複雜所主導 , 像是烏爾 , 事實上 , 靈性化 , 中央食物分配中心 。
because it was the temples that organized the harvest , gathered in the grain , offered it to the gods , and then offered the grain that the gods didn't eat back to the people .	因為神殿安排收穫 , 聚集在穀物中 , 將它送給神 , 然後給予神神不吃人的穀物 。
so , if you like , the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them .	所以 , 如果你喜歡 , 這些城市的精神和實體生活都是由穀物所支配 , 以及維持它們的收穫所支配 。
and in fact , that's true of every ancient city .	事實上 , 每個古老城市都是如此 。
but of course not all of them were that small .	但當然不是全部都這麼小 。
famously , rome had about a million citizens by the first century a . d .	著名的是 , 羅馬在第一世紀有大約一百萬個公民 。
so how did a city like this feed itself ?	所以 , 像這樣的城市是怎麼回饋的 ?
the answer is what i call " ancient food miles . "	答案是我所謂的 「 古老食物哩程 」 。
basically , rome had access to the sea , which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away .	基本上 , 羅馬可以進入海洋 , 讓它可以從很遠的地方進口食物 。
this is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world , because it was very difficult to transport food over roads , which were rough .	在古代世界裡 , 只有這樣做 , 因為要在路上運輸食物是非常困難的 , 差不多就是這樣 。
and the food obviously went off very quickly .	食物顯然很快就消失了
so rome effectively waged war on places like carthage and egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves .	所以羅馬很有效率地在像凱斯和埃及這樣的地方打仗 , 只為了取得他們的穀物保留地 。
and , in fact , you could say that the expansion of the empire was really sort of one long , drawn out militarized shopping spree , really .	事實上 , 你可以說 , 帝國的擴張真的是一長串的 , 畫出軍事化的購物圈 。
in fact i love the fact , i just have to mention this: rome in fact used to import oysters from london , at one stage . i think that's extraordinary .	事實上 , 我很喜歡事實 , 我只需要提一下:羅馬以前是從倫敦進口牡蠣的 , 在某個階段 , 我覺得這很不凡 。
so rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite .	羅馬透過它的胃口 , 塑造了它的內陸 。
but the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the preindustrial world .	但有趣的是 , 在工業界也發生了另一件事 。
if we look at a map of london in the 17th century , we can see that its grain , which is coming in from the thames , along the bottom of this map .	如果我們看看十七世紀倫敦的地圖 , 我們可以看到它的穀物 , 它來自thames , 沿著這張地圖的底部 。
so the grain markets were to the south of the city .	所以 , 穀物市場就在城市的南方 。
and the roads leading up from them to cheapside , which was the main market , were also grain markets .	路從他們走到廉價的路上 , 那是主要的市場 , 也是穀物市場 。
and if you look at the name of one of those streets , bread street , you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago .	如果你看這些街道的名字 , 麵包街 , 你可以知道300年前發生了什麼事 。
and the same of course was true for fish .	當然 , 魚也是如此 。
fish was , of course , coming in by river as well . same thing .	當然 , 魚也是從河流進來的 。 同樣的東西 。
and of course billingsgate , famously , was london's fish market , operating onsite here until the mid1980s .	當然 , 比爾辛辛格很有名的是倫敦的魚市場直到1980年代中期才開始運作
which is extraordinary , really , when you think about it .	真的 , 仔細想想 , 這真的很不尋常 。
everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port .	其他所有人都在用行動電話遊蕩 , 看起來像磚頭 , 有點像是在港口捕魚 。
this is another thing about food in cities: once its roots into the city are established , they very rarely move .	這是城市中的食物:一旦它根入城市 , 它們很少會移動 。
meat is a very different story because , of course , animals could walk into the city .	肉類是很不一樣的 , 因為 , 當然 , 動物會走進城市 。
so much of london's meat was coming from the northwest , from scotland and wales .	倫敦大部分的肉都來自西北 , 來自蘇格蘭和威爾斯 。
so it was coming in , and arriving at the city at the northwest , which is why smithfield , london's very famous meat market , was located up there .	所以它來了 , 抵達西北部的城市 , 這就是為什麼史密斯菲爾德 , 倫敦著名的肉市場 , 位在那邊 。
poultry was coming in from east anglia and so on , to the northeast .	家禽從東加利亞到東北
i feel a bit like a weather woman doing this . anyway , and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes .	我覺得有點像氣象女性這樣做 。 總之 , 鳥類會用腳保護著牠們的腳 。
and then when they hit the eastern end of cheapside , that's where they were sold , which is why it's called poultry .	接著 , 當他們進入便宜的東端時 , 他們就被賣掉了 , 這就是為什麼被稱為 「 家禽 」 。
and , in fact , if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age , you can trace food coming in to it .	事實上 , 如果你看看工業時代的任何城市地圖 , 你可以追蹤食物進來 。
you can actually see how it was physically shaped by food , both by reading the names of the streets , which give you a lot of clues .	你可以看到它是如何被食物的形狀 , 兩者都透過閱讀街道的名字 , 給你很多線索 。
friday street , in a previous life , is where you went to buy your fish on a friday .	星期五街 , 在過去的人生中 , 是你在星期五去買你的魚的地方 。
but also you have to imagine it full of food .	但你也必須想像它充滿了食物 。
because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold .	因為街道和公共空間是唯一買食物的地方 。
and if we look at an image of smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from .	如果我們看看1830年史密斯菲爾德的影像 , 你可以看到 , 住在這樣的城市中 , 很難知道你的食物從哪裡來 。
in fact , if you were having sunday lunch , the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier .	事實上 , 假如你有星期日午餐 , 可能是你的窗外流血或流血的機率大約三天前 。
so this was obviously an organic city , part of an organic cycle .	這顯然是一個有機城市 , 一個有機循環的一部分 。
and then 10 years later everything changed .	十年後 , 一切都改變了 。
this is an image of the great western in 1840 .	這是1840年大西部的圖片 。
and as you can see , some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep .	如你所見 , 最早的火車乘客是豬和綿羊 。
so all of a sudden , these animals are no longer walking into market .	突然間 , 這些動物不再走進市場了 。
they're being slaughtered out of sight and mind , somewhere in the countryside .	他們因為視力和心智而被屠殺 , 在鄉下某處 。
and they're coming into the city by rail .	他們以鐵路進入城市 。
and this changes everything .	這改變了一切 。
to start off with , it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities , really any size and shape , in any place .	首先 , 首先 , 它可以成為第一次 , 種植城市 , 大小和形狀 , 在任何地方 。
cities used to be constrained by geography ; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means .	過去的城市被地理限制 ; 他們以前必須透過非常困難的實體方式來取得食物 。
all of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography .	突然間 , 他們被地理限制了 。
and as you can see from these maps of london , in the 90 years after the trains came , it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot , and so on , to a large splurge , that would be very , very difficult to feed with anybody on foot , either animals or people .	如你所看到的 , 從倫敦的地圖上看到的 , 在火車出現的九十年後 , 它從一個很容易被動物送進來的小小圓點 , 以此類推 , 到一個很大的海綿 , 要不管是腳上、動物或人類 , 都很難餵飽 。
and of course that was just the beginning . after the trains came cars , and really this marks the end of this process .	當然這只是開端 。 火車來了之後 , 真的是這個過程的結尾 。
it's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all .	這是城市的最後解放 , 完全和大自然的關係 。
and this is the kind of city that's devoid of smell , devoid of mess , certainly devoid of people , because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape .	這是那種沒有氣味的城市 , 沒有混亂的城市 , 絕對沒有人 , 因為沒有人會夢想走在這樣的地景中 。
in fact , what they did to get food was they got in their cars , drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts , came back with a week's worth of shopping , and wondered what on earth to do with it .	事實上 , 他們把食物送到車上 , 開車到郊區的某個地方 , 帶著一週的購物回來 , 想知道到底該怎麼做 。
and this really is the moment when our relationship , both with food and cities , changes completely .	此時此刻 , 我們與食物和城市的關係 , 完全改變了 。
here we have food that used to be the center , the social core of the city at the periphery .	這裡我們有食物 , 以前是市中心 , 在邊緣的社會核心 。
it used to be a social event , buying and selling food .	以前是社交活動 , 買賣和賣食物 。
we used to cook ; now we just add water , or a little bit of an egg if you're making a cake or something .	我們以前煮飯 ; 現在我們加入水或一點蛋 , 如果你做蛋糕或其他東西的話 。
we don't smell food to see if it's okay to eat .	我們不會聞到食物 , 看看是否可以吃 。
we just read the back of a label on a packet .	我們只是在包裝上讀到標籤 。
and we don't value food . we don't trust it .	我們不重視食物 , 我們不相信食物 。
so instead of trusting it , we fear it .	所以 , 我們不再相信它 , 而是害怕它 。
and instead of valuing it , we throw it away .	我們不再重視它 , 而是丟掉它 。
one of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder .	現代食品系統最諷刺的一點是 , 他們做出了他們承諾要讓生活更加困難的東西 。
by making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place , they've actually distanced us from our most important relationship , which is that of us and nature .	藉由讓城市可以在任何地方建立城市 , 實際上它們能讓我們與我們最重要的關係脫離 , 那就是我們和大自然的關係 。
and also they've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver , that , as we've seen , are unsustainable .	此外 , 它們也讓我們依賴它們能傳遞的系統 , 如同我們所見 , 它們是無法永續發展的 。
so what are we going to do about that ?	那麼 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
it's not a new question .	這不是一個新的問題 。
500 years ago it's what thomas more was asking himself .	五百年前湯瑪斯•摩爾在問自己 。
this is the frontispiece of his book " utopia . "	這是他書《烏托邦》的頭條 。
and it was a series of semiindependent citystates , if that sounds remotely familiar , a day's walk from one another where everyone was basically farmingmad , and grew vegetables in their back gardens , and ate communal meals together , and so on .	那是一系列半獨立的城邦 , 如果聽起來很熟悉 , 一天之間的走路 , 每個人基本上都是農人 , 在他們的後花園中種植蔬菜 , 一起吃飯 , 等等 。
and i think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of utopia , even though more never framed it that way .	我認為你可以說 , 食物是烏托邦的基本原則 , 即使從來沒有這樣做 。
and here is another very famous " utopian " vision , that of ebenezer howard , " the garden city . "	這裡還有另一個非常有名的烏托邦願景 , 伊伯內斯霍華的《花園城市》 。
same idea: series of semiindependent citystates , little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around , joined to one another by railway .	同樣的想法:一系列半獨立的城邦 , 一小片大都市的東西 , 帶著耕地 , 連接到鐵路 。
and again , food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision .	同樣的 , 食物可以被認為是他願景的訂購原則 。
it even got built , but nothing to do with this vision that howard had .	它甚至被建造出來 , 但跟霍華德的這個願景沒有關係 。
and that is the problem with these utopian ideas , that they are utopian .	這些烏托邦想法的問題是 , 他們是烏托邦 。
utopia was actually a word that thomas moore used deliberately .	烏托邦其實是湯瑪斯•摩爾刻意使用的詞 。
it was a kind of joke , because it's got a double derivation from the greek .	這是個笑話 , 因為它的產量是希臘的兩倍 。
it can either mean a good place , or no place .	它可能意味著一個好的地方 , 或沒有地方 。
because it's an ideal . it's an imaginary thing . we can't have it .	因為這是一個理想的 , 一個有想像力的東西 。 我們不能擁有它 。
and i think , as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling , that makes it not much use .	我認為 , 作為一個概念性的工具 , 來思考人類的深層問題 , 讓它不太能被使用 。
so i've come up with an alternative , which is sitopia , from the ancient greek , " sitos " for food , and " topos " for place .	所以我想出了一個替代方案 , 來自古希臘文 「 西托 」 、 「 為食物 」 、 「 湯波 」 的替代方案 。
i believe we already live in sitopia .	我相信我們已經住在西托邦 。
we live in a world shaped by food , and if we realize that , we can use food as a really powerful tool a conceptual tool , design tool , to shape the world differently .	我們生活在一個被食物塑造的世界 , 如果我們意識到 , 我們可以把食物當作一個非常強大的工具 , 一個概念性工具 , 設計工具 , 以不同的方式塑造世界 。
so if we were to do that , what might sitopia look like ?	如果我們這樣做 , 西托邦看起來會是什麼樣子 ?
well i think it looks a bit like this .	我想這看起來有點像這樣 。
i have to use this slide . it's just the look on the face of the dog .	我必須用這張投影片 , 只是狗臉上的表情 。
but anyway , this is it's food at the center of life , at the center of family life , being celebrated , being enjoyed , people taking time for it .	但無論如何 , 這是食物在生活的中心 , 在家庭生活的中心 , 被讚頌 , 被享受 , 人們花時間陪伴它 。
this is where food should be in our society .	這就是我們社會中糧食應當的地方 。
but you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this .	但除非你有這樣的人 , 你不能有這樣的場景 。
by the way , these can be men as well .	順便一提 , 這些也可以是男人 。
it's people who think about food , who think ahead , who plan , who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them .	人們會想到食物 , 會想 , 誰會計劃 , 會盯著一堆原生蔬菜 , 並且認得它們 。
we need these people . we're part of a network .	我們需要這些人 。 我們是網路的一部分 。
because without these kinds of people we can't have places like this .	因為如果沒有這種人 , 我們就不能有這樣的地方 。
here , i deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable .	在這裡 , 我故意選擇這個 , 因為這是一個人買蔬菜 。
but networks , markets where food is being grown locally .	但網路、市場 , 在那裡 , 食物在當地生長 。
it's common . it's fresh .	很常見 , 很新鮮 。
it's part of the social life of the city .	它是城市社會生活的一部分 。
because without that , you can't have this kind of place , food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape , and is not just a zerosum commodity off in some unseen hellhole .	因為沒有了這一點 , 你就不能有這種地方種植的食物 , 同時也是地景的一部分 , 而不只是一個零和的商品 , 在一些看不見的地獄裡 。
cows with a view .	牛有著視野 。
steaming piles of humus .	大堆的 「 嗡 」 。
this is basically bringing the whole thing together .	這基本上就是把整件事結合在一起 。
and this is a community project i visited recently in toronto .	這是我最近在多倫多拜訪的一個社區專案 。
it's a greenhouse , where kids get told all about food and growing their own food .	它是一個溫室 , 孩子們會告訴所有關於食物和種植他們自己的食物 。
here is a plant called kevin , or maybe it's a plant belonging to a kid called kevin . i don't know .	這裡有一棵叫kevin的植物 , 或者它屬於一個叫kevin的孩子 。 我不知道 。
but anyway , these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important .	但不管怎樣 , 這些企劃試圖與大自然重新連結的計畫是非常重要的 。
so sitopia , for me , is really a way of seeing .	所以 , 西托邦 , 對我來說 , 真的是一種看待方式 。
it's basically recognizing that sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere .	基本上 , 西托邦已經存在於小口袋裡 。
the trick is to join them up , to use food as a way of seeing .	訣竅是要把它們加在一起 , 用食物當作一種看法 。
and if we do that , we're going to stop seeing cities as big , metropolitan , unproductive blobs , like this .	如果我們這樣做 , 我們就不再把城市看成大型、大都市化、無生產力的怪物 , 像這樣 。
we're going to see them more like this , as part of the productive , organic framework of which they are inevitably a part , symbiotically connected .	我們將看到它們更像這樣 , 作為生產力、有機架構的一部分 , 它們是無可避免的 , 具有共生關係的 。
but of course , that's not a great image either , because we need not to be producing food like this anymore .	但當然 , 這也不是很棒的形象 , 因為我們不需要再製造像這樣的食物 。
we need to be thinking more about permaculture , which is why i think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing .	我們需要考慮永續發展 , 這就是為什麼我認為這張圖片總結出我們需要做的事 。
it's a reconceptualization of the way food shapes our lives .	這是一種重新概念化的食物如何塑造我們的生活 。
the best image i know of this is from 650 years ago .	我所知道的最好的圖像是從650年前開始 。
it's ambrogio lorenzetti's " allegory of good government . "	是阿布羅吉歐•羅倫澤蒂的 「 好政府的寓言 」 。
it's about the relationship between the city and the countryside .	重點是城市和鄉村之間的關係 。
and i think the message of this is very clear .	我認為這個訊息非常清楚 。
if the city looks after the country , the country will look after the city .	如果城市照顧這個國家 , 這個國家會照顧這個城市 。
and i want us to ask now , what would ambrogio lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today ?	現在 , 我想問我們 , 阿布羅吉歐•洛倫澤蒂 , 如果他今天畫出這張影像 , 會是什麼樣子 ?
what would an allegory of good government look like today ?	今天好政府的寓言會是什麼樣子 ?
because i think it's an urgent question .	因為我認為這是一個迫切的問題 。
it's one we have to ask , and we have to start answering .	我們得要問 , 我們得要開始回答 。
we know we are what we eat .	我們知道我們就是吃什麼的 。
we need to realize that the world is also what we eat .	我們需要了解 , 世界也是我們吃的 。
but if we take that idea , we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better .	但如果我們採取這個想法 , 我們可以用食物作為一個非常強大的工具 , 來塑造世界變得更好 。
weeks from the charter for compassion launch , karen armstrong looks at religion's role in the 21st century: will its dogmas divide us ? or will it unite us for common good ? she reviews the catalysts that can drive the world's faiths to rediscover the golden rule .	卡倫•阿姆斯壯在21世紀的宗教角色:它的教條會分裂我們嗎 ? 還是我們共通的 ? 她檢視世界信仰的催化劑 , 來重新發現黃金法則 。
god , ted prize , global issues , politics , religion , tedglobal2009 , violence	上帝、ted獎、全球議題、政治、宗教、2009年tedglobal、暴力、暴力 。
karen armstrong: let's revive the golden rule	karenarmstrong:讓我們重現黃金法則 。
for years i've been feeling frustrated , because as a religious historian , i've become acutely aware of the centrality of compassion in all the major world faiths .	多年來 , 我感到很挫折 , 因為身為宗教歷史學家 , 我敏銳地意識到同情心在世界各大宗教的核心 。
every single one of them has evolved their own version of what's been called the golden rule .	每一個人都進化了他們自己的黃金法則 。
sometimes it comes in a positive version " always treat all others as you'd like to be treated yourself . "	有時 , 它出現在一個正面的版本中 , 「 總是把他人當作你想要被治療的所有人 。 」
and equally important is the negative version " don't do to others what you would not like them to do to you . "	同樣重要的是負面版本: 「 不要對別人做你不喜歡的事 。 」
look into your own heart , discover what it is that gives you pain and then refuse , under any circumstance whatsoever , to inflict that pain on anybody else .	看看你自己的心 , 發現它給予你痛苦 , 然後拒絕 , 在任何情況下 , 將痛苦在其他人身上發揮 。
and people have emphasized the importance of compassion , not just because it sounds good , but because it works .	人們強調同情的重要性 , 不只是因為它聽起來很棒 , 也因為它很有用 。
people have found that when they have implemented the golden rule as confucius said , " all day and every day , " not just a question of doing your good deed for the day and then returning to a life of greed and egotism , but to do it all day and every day , you dethrone yourself from the center of your world , put another there , and you transcend yourself .	人們發現 , 當他們實施黃金法則時 , 如同混亂所說: 「 整天 , 」 不只在做好事時 , 還要回到貪婪和自負的生活 , 每天都要做 , 你從世界的中心來拒絕自己 , 放在那裡 , 超越你自己 。
and it brings you into the presence of what's been called god , nirvana , rama , tao .	它帶你到一個名為 「 上帝 」 的存在 , nirvana , rama , tao 。
something that goes beyond what we know in our egobound existence .	超越我們所知的自我存在 。
but you know you'd never know it a lot of the time , that this was so central to the religious life .	但你知道你從來不知道很多時間 , 這對宗教生活是很重要的 。
because with a few wonderful exceptions , very often when religious people come together , religious leaders come together , they're arguing about abstruse doctrines or uttering a council of hatred or inveighing against homosexuality or something of that sort .	因為有了一些很棒的例外 , 通常當宗教人聚在一起 , 宗教領袖聚在一起時 , 他們會爭論廢除教條 , 或說出仇恨的議會 , 或反對同性戀或類似的事情 。
often people don't really want to be compassionate .	通常人們並不真的想要有同情心 。
i sometimes see when i'm speaking to a congregation of religious people a sort of mutinous expression crossing their faces because people often want to be right instead .	我有時會看到當我和一群宗教人談話時 , 有點像是在表達他們的臉 , 因為人們常常想做對的事 。
and that of course defeats the object of the exercise .	那當然會打敗運動的物體 。
now why was i so grateful to ted ?	我為什麼這麼感激ted ?
because they took me very gently from my booklined study and brought me into the 21st century , enabling me to speak to a much , much wider audience than i could have ever conceived .	因為他們很溫柔地從我的書籍研究帶我進入二十一世紀 , 讓我能和比我想像中更廣泛的觀眾交談 。
because i feel an urgency about this .	因為我對此感到很迫切 。
if we don't manage to implement the golden rule globally , so that we treat all peoples , wherever and whoever they may be , as though they were as important as ourselves , i doubt that we'll have a viable world to hand on to the next generation .	如果我們沒有辦法在全球實施黃金法則 , 所以我們對待所有人 , 不論他們在哪裡 , 不論他們是誰 , 彷彿他們和我們一樣重要 , 我懷疑我們會有一個可行的世界 , 來傳給下一代 。
the task of our time , one of the great tasks of our time , is to build a global society , as i said , where people can live together in peace .	我們這個時代的任務 , 我們這個時代最偉大的任務之一 , 就是建立一個全球社會 , 如我所說 , 在那裡 , 人們可以和平共處 。
and the religions that should be making a major contribution are instead seen as part of the problem .	而應該要做出重大貢獻的宗教 , 卻被視為是問題的一部分 。
and of course it's not just religious people who believe in the golden rule .	當然 , 不只是宗教人士相信黃金法則 。
this is the source of all morality , this imaginative act of empathy , putting yourself in the place of another .	這是所有道德的來源 , 這種有想像力的同理心的行為 , 把自己放在另一個地方 。
and so we have a choice , it seems to me .	所以 , 我們有選擇 , 對我來說似乎是如此 。
we can either go on bringing out or emphasizing the dogmatic and intolerant aspects of our faith , or we can go back to the rabbis . rabbi hillel , the older contemporary of jesus , who , when asked by a pagan to sum up the whole of jewish teaching while he stood on one leg , said , " that which is hateful to you , do not do to your neighbor .	我們可以繼續提出或強調我們信仰的教條和寬容的面向 , 或者我們可以回到拉比希爾 , 一位年長的耶穌現代人 , 當他站在一條猶太教義上時 , 他說: 「 這對你的鄰居來說是有害的 。
that is the torah and everything else is only commentary . "	那是托拉和其他一切都只是評論 。 」
and the rabbis and the early fathers of the church who said that any interpretation of scripture that bred hatred and disdain was illegitimate .	拉比和早期教會的父親說 , 教堂的任何詮釋都說 , 教條的任何詮釋都不合法 。
and we need to revive that spirit .	我們需要復興那個精神 。
and it's not just going to happen because a spirit of love wafts us down .	這不僅會發生 , 因為愛情的精神會降低我們 。
we have to make this happen , and we can do it with the modern communications that ted has introduced .	我們必須實現這一點 , 而且我們能用ted所介紹的現代溝通來做到 。
already i've been tremendously heartened at the response of all our partners .	我已經對所有夥伴的反應感到極大的鼓舞 。
in singapore , we have a group going to use the charter to heal divisions recently that have sprung up in singaporean society , and some members of the parliament want to implement it politically .	在新加坡 , 我們有一群人 , 會使用最近在新加坡社會中所使用的治癒分裂 , 國會的一些成員想要在政治上實施 。
in malaysia , there is going to be an art exhibition in which leading artists are going to be taking people , young people , and showing them that compassion also lies at the root of all art .	在馬來西亞 , 將會有一場藝術展 , 主導藝術家會帶領人們、年輕人 , 並展現出慈悲心也源於所有藝術的根源 。
throughout europe , the muslim communities are holding events and discussions , are discussing the centrality of compassion in islam and in all faiths .	在歐洲 , 穆斯林社區在舉辦活動和討論 , 正在討論伊斯蘭和所有信仰中同情心的核心 。
but it can't stop there . it can't stop with the launch .	但它不能停在那裡 , 它不能停止發射 。
religious teaching , this is where we've gone so wrong , concentrating solely on believing abstruse doctrines .	宗教教學 , 我們錯過了 , 專注於相信abstrusse的教條 。
religious teaching must always lead to action .	宗教教學一定永遠會引起行動 。
and i intend to work on this till my dying day .	我打算在我死去的那一天工作 。
and i want to continue with our partners to do two things educate and stimulate compassionate thinking .	我想繼續讓我們的夥伴們去做兩件事 , 去教育和刺激同情心思考 。
education because we've so dropped out of compassion .	教育因為我們已經失去同情心了 。
people often think it simply means feeling sorry for somebody .	人們常常認為這只是對某人感到抱歉的意思 。
but of course you don't understand compassion if you're just going to think about it .	但當然 , 如果你只是想一想 , 你不了解同情心 。
you also have to do it .	你也必須這麼做 。
i want them to get the media involved because the media are crucial in helping to dissolve some of the stereotypical views we have of other people , which are dividing us from one another .	我希望他們能參與媒體 , 因為媒體是很重要的 , 要協助分解一些我們對他人的刻板印象 , 把我們從彼此分開來 。
the same applies to educators .	教育家也一樣 。
i'd like youth to get a sense of the dynamism , the dynamic and challenge of a compassionate lifestyle .	我希望年輕人能感受到動態、動態和挑戰同情生活方式 。
and also see that it demands acute intelligence , not just a gooey feeling .	同時也看到它需要急性智能 , 而不僅僅是舒服的感覺 。
i'd like to call upon scholars to explore the compassionate theme in their own and in other people's traditions .	我想呼籲學者去探索他們自己和其他人傳統中的同情心 。
and perhaps above all , to encourage a sensitivity about uncompassionate speaking , so that because people have this charter , whatever their beliefs or lack of them , they feel empowered to challenge uncompassionate speech , disdainful remarks from their religious leaders , their political leaders , from the captains of industry .	最重要的是 , 鼓勵不友善的言論的敏感度 , 如此一來 , 因為人們有這章節 , 不論他們的信念或缺乏信念 , 他們覺得有能力挑戰不友善的言論 , 不友善的宗教領袖 , 他們的政治領袖 , 來自工業界的領袖 。
because we can change the world , we have the ability .	因為我們可以改變世界 , 我們有能力 。
i would never have thought of putting the charter online .	我從來沒有想過把這篇文章放在網路上 。
i was still stuck in the old world of a whole bunch of boffins sitting together in a room and issuing yet another arcane statement .	我仍然被困在舊世界裡 , 一大群人坐在一間房間裡 , 還在說另一句話 。
and ted introduced me to a whole new way of thinking and presenting ideas .	ted向我介紹一個全新的思考方式和呈現想法 。
because that is what is so wonderful about ted .	因為這就是ted的美妙之處 。
in this room , all this expertise , if we joined it all together , we could change the world .	在這個房間裡 , 所有的專長 , 如果我們加入這一切 , 我們就能改變世界 。
and of course the problems sometimes seem insuperable .	當然 , 有時候問題似乎很有吸引力 。
but i'd just like to quote , finish at the end with a reference to a british author , an oxford author whom i don't quote very often , c . s . lewis .	但最後我想引用一句英國作家的話 , 他是牛津作家 , 我不常引用c.s.lewis 。
but he wrote one thing that stuck in my mind ever since i read it when i was a schoolgirl .	但他寫了一件事 , 從我讀書的時候 , 一直困在我腦海裡 。
it's in his book " the four loves . "	在他的書《四個愛》裡 。
he said that he distinguished between erotic love , when two people gaze , spellbound , into each other's eyes .	他說 , 他分辨出愛情之間的差別 , 當兩個人凝視、拼字 , 彼此的眼睛 。
and then he compared that to friendship , when two people stand side by side , as it were , shoulder to shoulder , with their eyes fixed on a common goal .	接著 , 他把這和友誼做比較 , 當兩個人站在旁邊 , 如同肩膀肩膀肩膀 , 雙眼固定在共同的目標上 。
we don't have to fall in love with each other , but we can become friends .	我們不需要愛上彼此 , 但我們能成為朋友 。
and i am convinced .	我深信 。
i felt it very strongly during our little deliberations at vevey , that when people of all different persuasions come together , working side by side for a common goal , differences melt away .	我很強烈地感受到 , 在我們在vey的小型決心時 , 所有不同的說服的人聚在一起 , 一起合作 , 一起合作合作 , 為了一個共同的目標 , 把差異融化 。
and we learn amity .	我們學到的是同性戀 。
and we learn to live together and to get to know one another .	我們學會一起生活 , 了解彼此 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
david macaulay relives the winding and sometimes surreal journey toward the completion of rome antics , his illustrated homage to the historic city .	davidmacauly復活了風 , 有時超現實的旅程朝著羅馬反抗的成就 , 他描繪了對歷史城市的敬意 。
macarthur grant , art , arts , book , cities , communication , culture , design , entertainment , humor , storytelling	macarthur授予藝術、藝術、書籍、溝通、文化、設計、娛樂、幽默、說故事、說故事、說故事、城市、溝通、文化、文化、設計、設計、娛樂、娛樂、幽默、幽默、幽默、幽默、
i draw to better understand things .	我畫畫畫 , 來更了解事物 。
sometimes i make a lot of drawings and i still don't understand what it is i'm drawing .	有時候我畫了很多圖 , 我仍然不知道我在畫什麼 。
those of you who are comfortable with digital stuff and even smug about that relationship might be amused to know that the guy who is best known for " the way things work , " while preparing for part of a panel for called understanding , spent two days trying to get his laptop to communicate with his new cd burner .	那些與數位化物質舒適的人 , 甚至對那段關係的短缺感到不舒服 , 知道在 「 工作方式 」 中 , 最為人所知的人 , 同時 , 準備了一塊板 , 叫 「 了解 」 , 花了兩天的時間 , 試圖讓他的筆記型電腦和他的新cdburner溝通 。
who knew about extension managers ?	誰知道延伸經理 ?
i've always managed my own extensions so it never even occurred to me to read the instructions , but i did finally figure it out . i had to figure it out , because along with the invitation came the frightening reminder that there would be no projector , so bringing those carousels would no longer be necessary but some alternate form of communication would .	我總是管理自己的延伸 , 所以從來沒有想過我讀過這些指令 , 但我終於搞清楚了 。 因為我必須想通 , 因為隨著邀請來到這裡 , 沒有投影機 , 所以把這些心房帶到不可或缺 , 但有些替代的溝通方式會發生 。
now , i could talk about something that i'm known for , something that would be particularly appropriate for many of the more technically minded people here , or i could talk about something i really care about .	現在 , 我可以談談我所知道的一些東西 , 特別適合在很多技術上被關注的人 , 或是我可以談論我真正關心的事物 。
i decided to go with the latter .	我決定跟後者一起去 。
i'm going to talk about rome .	我要談談羅馬 。
now , why would i care about rome , particularly ?	我為什麼特別在乎羅馬呢 ?
well , i went to rhode island school of design in the second half of the '60s to study architecture .	我在1960年代後半期去羅德島設計學院讀建築 。
i was lucky enough to spend my last year , my fifth year , in rome as a student . it changed my life .	我很幸運能去年度 , 身為學生的第五年 , 羅馬改變了我的人生 。
not the least reason was the fact that i had spent those first four years living at home , driving into risd everyday , driving back .	不是因為我在家裡待了前四年 , 每天開車回來 , 開車回來 。
i missed the '60s . i read about them ; i understand they were pretty interesting . i missed them , but i did spend that extraordinary year in rome , and it's a place that is never far from my mind .	我錯過了1960年代 。 我讀到這些 , 我知道他們很有趣 。 我錯過了他們 , 但我確實花了那一年在羅馬 , 這是我從來沒有想過的地方 。
so , whenever given an opportunity , i try to do something in it or with it or for it .	所以 , 每當有機會時 , 我就試著去做點什麼 , 用它或它來做 。
i also make drawings to help people understand things .	我也畫圖來幫助人們理解事物 。
things that i want them to believe i understand .	我希望他們相信我所理解的事物 。
and that's what i do as an illustrator , that's my job .	這就是我作為一個插畫家所做的 , 那是我的工作 。
so , i'm going to show you some pictures of rome .	我要給你們看一些羅馬的照片 。
i've made a lot of drawings of rome over the years .	多年來我畫了很多羅馬畫 。
these are just drawings of rome . i get back as often as possible i need to .	這些只是羅馬的圖 , 我盡可能回去 。
all different materials , all different styles , all different times , drawings from sketchbooks looking at the details of rome .	所有不同的材料 , 各種不同的風格 , 隨時不同的時間 , 繪製草圖 , 看看羅馬的細節 。
part of the reason i'm showing you these is that it sort of helps illustrate this process i go through of trying to figure out what it is i feel about rome and why i feel it .	我給你們看的其中一部分原因是 , 它協助說明了這個過程 , 我試圖找出我對羅馬的感受 , 以及為什麼我覺得它 。
these are sketches of some of the little details .	這些是一些細節的草圖 。
rome is a city full of surprises .	羅馬是個充滿驚喜的城市 。
i mean , we're talking about unusual perspectives , we're talking about narrow little winding streets that suddenly open into vast , sundrenched piazzas never , though , piazzas that are not humanly scaled .	我的意思是 , 我們談的是不尋常的觀點 , 我們談的是狹窄的風街道 , 突然變成廣闊、陽光充足的帕薩斯 , 從來沒有 , 比薩斯人性規模過 。
part of the reason for that is the fact that they grew up organically .	其中一個原因是他們有機地長大 。
that amazing juxtaposition of old and new , the bits of light that come down between the buildings that sort of create a map that's traveling above your head of usually blue especially in the summer compared to the map that you would normally expect to see of conventional streets .	古老和新事物的奇妙結合 , 那些在建築物之間的亮光 , 像是在你頭頂上創造出一張地圖 , 特別是在夏天 , 與你平常看到的傳統街道相比 。
and i began to think about how i could communicate this in book form .	我開始思考如何用書籍來溝通 。
how could i share my sense of rome , my understanding of rome ?	我要如何分享我對羅馬的認知 , 我對羅馬的認知 ?
and i'm going to show you a bunch of dead ends , basically .	基本上 , 我要給你們看一堆死胡同 。
the primary reason for all these dead ends is when if you're not quite sure where you're going , you're certainly not going to get there with any kind of efficiency .	所有這些死亡的主要原因是如果你不太確定你要去哪 , 你肯定不會有任何的效率 。
here's a little map . and i thought of maps at the beginning ; maybe i should just try and do a little atlas of my favorite streets and connections in rome .	這是一張小地圖 , 我一開始就想到了地圖 ; 也許我應該試試看一下我最喜歡的街道和連線 。
and here's a line of text that actually evolves from the exhaust of a scooter zipping across the page .	這裡有一系列文字 , 實際上是從一連串的散佈到一頁 。
here that same line of text wraps around a fountain in an illustration that can be turned upside down and read both ways .	在這裡 , 同樣的文字在噴泉周圍繞著一個插圖 , 可以顛倒並閱讀兩種方式 。
maybe that line of text could be a story to help give some human aspect to this .	或許這一行的文字可以是一個故事 , 來幫助人類對此的一些面向 。
maybe i should get away from this map completely , and really be honest about wanting to show you my favorite bits and pieces of rome and simply kick a soccer ball in the air which happens in so many of the squares in the city and let it bounce off of things . and i'll simply explain what each of those things is that the soccer ball hits .	也許我應該完全脫離這張地圖 , 說真的 , 說實話 , 要向你們展示我最喜歡的部分羅馬和羅馬 , 簡單地踢一顆足球 , 發生在城市中許多正方形中 , 讓它反彈 。 我將簡單地解釋一下 , 足球撞擊的每一件事 。
that seemed like a sort of a cheap shot .	這看起來像是個便宜的照片 。
but even though i just started this presentation , this is not the first thing that i tried to do and i was getting sort of desperate .	但即使我剛開始這場演說 , 這不是我試圖做的第一件事 , 我也開始感到絕望 。
eventually , i realized that i had really no content that i could count on , so i decided to move towards packaging .	最終 , 我意識到我沒有什麼內容可以依靠 , 所以我決定搬到包裝上 。
i mean , it seems to work for a lot of things .	我的意思是 , 這似乎對許多事情有用 。
so i thought a little box set of four small books might do the trick .	所以我想 , 一組四本小書的盒子 , 可能會做這個技巧 。
but one of the ideas that emerged from some of those sketches was the notion of traveling through rome in different vehicles at different speeds in order to show the different aspects of rome .	但其中一個想法是從這些草圖中浮現出來的概念是透過不同的速度穿越羅馬的羅馬 , 以不同速度展示羅馬的不同面向 。
sort of an overview of rome and the plan that you might see from a dirigible .	有點過度的羅馬和你可能從可怕的計畫中看到的 。
quick snapshots of things you might see from a speeding motor scooter , and very slow walking through rome , you might be able to study in more detail some of the wonderful surfaces and whatnot that you come across .	快速拍攝你可能從加速摩托車上看到的東西 , 慢慢的走過羅馬 , 你可能可以更詳細地研究一些美妙的表面 , 和你碰到的是什麼 。
anyways , i went back to the dirigible notion .	總之 , 我回到可怕的觀念 。
went to alberto santosdumont .	去了albertosdumont 。
found one of his dirigibles that had enough dimensions so i could actually use it as a scale that i would then juxtapose with some of the things in rome .	他找到了其中一個有足夠的維度的電子元件 , 讓我可以把它當作一個規模 , 然後我會和羅馬的一些東西混合在一起 。
this thing would be flying over or past or be parked in front of , but it would be like having a ruler sort of travel through the pages without being a ruler .	這東西會飛越或過往 , 或被停在前面 , 但那就像是把統治者從頁面上穿過 , 不用當統治者 。
not that you know how long number 11 actually is , but you would be able to compare number 11 against the pantheon with number 11 against the baths of caracalla , and so on and so forth . if you were interested .	不是你知道11事件有多長 , 但你可以比較11號和萬神廟的數字 , 和卡拉浴場有11號比對 , 等等 。 如果你有興趣的話 。
this is beatrix . she has a dog named ajax , she has purchased a dirigible a small dirigible she's assembling the structure , ajax is sniffing for holes in the balloon before they set off .	這是beatrix 。 她有一隻狗叫ajax , 她買了一台可怕的小裝置 , 她正在組裝這個結構 , ajax在氣球開啟前聞到氣球上的洞 。
she launches this thing above the spanish steps and sets off for an aerial tour of the city .	她在西班牙階梯上發射這個東西 , 為城市的空中巡迴演出 。
over the spanish steps we go .	我們走過西班牙階梯 。
a nice way to show that river , that stream sort of pouring down the hill .	展現這條河 , 一條河流沿著山坡倒下 。
unfortunately , just across the road from it or quite close by is the column of marcus aurelius , and the diameter of the dirigible makes an impression , as you can see , as she starts trying to read the story that spirals around the column of marcus aurelius gets a little too close , nudges it .	不幸的是 , 就在路上或靠近馬克力斯奧里烏斯的柱子上 , 可怕的直徑會產生一種印象 , 如你所見 , 正如她開始嘗試閱讀馬可•阿里烏斯圓柱周圍的螺旋的故事 , 太接近了 , 引導它 。
this gives me a chance to suggest to you the structure of the column of marcus aurelius , which is really no more than a pile of quarters high thick quarters . over the piazza of saint ignacio , completely ruining the symmetry , but that aside a spectacular place to visit .	這讓我有機會向各位建議馬可.奧里略圓柱的結構 , 這不僅僅是一堆四分之一高厚的石塊 。 在聖格納西歐的象形上 , 完全毀掉了對稱的結構 , 但那還不夠壯觀 。
a spectacular framework , inside of which you see , usually , extraordinary blue sky .	一個壯觀的架構 , 裡面通常是非凡的藍天 。
over the pantheon and the 26foot diameter oculus .	在萬神廟和26英尺直徑的眼睛裡 。
she parks her dirigible , lowers the anchor rope and climbs down for a closer look inside .	她停了她的數量 , 降低了繩子 , 爬下去 , 再更仔細地觀察她的內部 。
the text here is right side and upside down so that you are forced to turn the book around , and you can see it from ground point of view and from her point of view looking in the hole , getting a different kind of perspective , moving you around the space . particularly appropriate in a building that can contain perfectly a sphere dimensions of the diameter being the same as the distance from the center of the floor to the center of the oculus .	這裡的文字是對的 , 向下的 , 這樣你就被迫轉過來 , 從地面的角度看 , 從她的角度看 , 帶著不同的觀點 , 移動你 , 特別適合在一個建築中 , 容納著直徑的一維空間 , 和在八月中心的距離一樣 。
unfortunately for her , the anchor line gets tangled around the feet of some boy scouts who are visiting the pantheon , and they are immediately yanked out and given an extraordinary but terrifying tour of some of the domes of rome , which would , from their point of view , naturally be hanging upside down .	不幸的是 , 對她來說 , 這條線環繞著一些拜訪萬神廟的男孩偵查員 , 他們馬上就被拉出來了 , 給了一些奇特但可怕的旅程 , 一些羅馬的圓頂 , 從他們的角度來看 , 自然會被往下掉 。
they bail out as soon as they get to the top of saint ivo , that little spiral structure you see there .	一旦他們抵達聖象群的頂端 , 就會保釋你所看到的小螺旋結構 。
she continues on her way over piazza navona .	她繼續走下去 , 穿越了帕札納維納 。
notices a lot of activity at the tre scalini restaurant , is reminded that it is lunchtime and she's hungry .	注意到在trescoalini餐廳裡的許多活動 , 都提醒了它是午餐時間 , 她餓了 。
they keep on motoring towards the campo de' fiori , which they soon reach . ajax the dog is put in a basket and lowered with a list of food into the marketplace , which flourishes there until about one in the afternoon , and then is completely removed and doesn't appear again until six or seven the following morning .	牠們繼續向柬埔寨的菲利里移動 , 很快地牠們就抵達 。 雅克斯把狗放進籃子裡 , 裝滿一份食物到市場上 , 直到下午 , 牠才會浮起來 , 然後完全移除 , 直到六、七個早上才開始 。
anyway , the pooch gets back to the dirigible with the stuff .	總之 , 糞便會回到可怕的東西上 。
unfortunately , when she goes to unwrap the prosciutto , ajax makes a lunge for it .	不幸的是 , 當她去揭開校園時 , ajax會為此吃午餐 。
she's managed to save the prosciutto , but in the process she loses the tablecloth , which you can see flying away in the upper lefthand corner .	她成功地拯救了這個學徒 , 但在這個過程中 , 她失去了桌布 , 你可以在左上角看到飛走 。
they continue without their tablecloth , looking for a place to land this thing so that they can actually have lunch .	他們不用桌布繼續下去 , 找一個地方降落這個東西 , 這樣他們才能真的吃午餐 。
they eventually discover a huge wall that's filled with small holes , ideal for docking a dirigible because you've got a place to tie up .	他們終於發現了一座充滿了小洞的巨大牆 , 理想的把一個可怕的地方綁起來 , 因為你還有一個可以綁起來的地方 。
turns out to be the exterior wall that part of it that remains of the coliseum , so they park themselves there and have a terrific lunch and have a spectacular view .	原來是哥倫斯留下來的外圍牆 , 所以他們會在那裡停下來 , 吃很棒的午餐 , 看上去很棒 。
at the end of lunch , they untie the anchor , they set off through the baths of caracalla and over the walls of the city and then an abandoned gatehouse and decide to take one more look at the pyramid of cestius , which has this lightning rod on top .	午餐結束時 , 他們將chor解開 , 他們從卡拉浴場 , 穿過城市的牆壁 , 接著 , 一個廢棄的大門 , 決定再看一眼西斯提烏斯的金字塔 , 上面有一道閃電 。
unfortunately , that's a problem: they get a little too close , and when you're in a dirigible you have to be very careful about spikes .	不幸的是 , 那是個問題:他們太靠近了 , 當你在可怕的情況下 , 你必須非常小心地注意刺激 。
so that sort of brings her little story to a conclusion .	所以這有點像是把她的故事帶到一個結論中 。
marcello , on the other hand , is sort of a lazy guy , but he's not due at work until about noon .	另一方面 , marcello有點懶惰 , 但他一直在工作 , 直到無時無刻都在工作 。
so , the alarm goes off and it's five to 12 or so .	所以 , 警報消失了 , 大約是五到十二歲 。
he gets up , leaps onto his scooter , races through the city past the church of santa maria della pace , down the alleys , through the streets that tourists may be wandering through , disturbing the quiet backstreet life of rome at every turn .	他站起來 , 跳到他的摩托車上 , 種族穿越整個城市 , 超越聖馬利亞德拉的教堂 , 沿著巷子 , 穿過遊客的街道 , 每輪都要走過安靜的羅馬背景 。
that speed with which he is moving , i hope i have suggested in this little image , which , again , can be turned around and read from both sides because there's text on the bottom and text on the top , one of which is upside down in this image .	他移動的速度 , 我希望我建議這張小小的圖片 , 可以轉過頭看 , 因為底部和文字上面有文字 , 其中一張是顛倒的圖片 。
so , he keeps on moving , approaching an unsuspecting waiter who is trying to deliver two plates of linguine in a delicate white wine clam sauce to diners who are sitting at a table just outside of a restaurant in the street .	所以 , 他繼續前進 , 接近一個不懷疑的服務生 , 他試圖在一個脆弱的白葡萄酒杯醬給坐在餐廳外面的餐廳外面的餐桌上 。
waiter catches on , but it's too late .	服務生接住了 , 但已經太遲了 。
and marcello keeps moving in his scooter .	馬歇羅繼續前進 。
everything he sees from this point on is slightly affected by the linguine , but keeps on moving because this guy's got a job to do .	從這個時候起 , 他所看到的一切都有點受到語言影響 , 但繼續前進 , 因為這個傢伙有工作要做 。
removes some scaffolding . one of the reasons rome remains the extraordinary place it is that because of scaffolding and the determination to maintain the fabric , it is a city that continues to grow and adapt to the needs of the particular time in which it finds itself , or we find it .	除去一些支架 。 羅馬仍然是不平凡的地方 , 原因之一 , 是因為支架和決心要維持結構 , 一個城市持續成長和適應它所發現的特定時間的需求 , 或我們發現它自己 。
right through the piazza della rotonda , in front of the pantheon again wreaking havoc and finally getting to work .	穿過pazzaderotonda , 又在萬神廟前 , 又醒來 , 終於開始工作了 。
marcello , as it turns out , is the driver of the number 64 bus , and if you've been on the number 64 bus , you know that it's driven with the same kind of exuberance as marcello demonstrated on his scooter .	馬賽利歐 , 事實證明 , 是64輛公車的驅動力 , 如果你在64輛公車上 , 你知道它的驅動力和馬塞洛在他的台上展示的一樣 。
and finally carletto . you see his apartment in the upper lefthand corner .	最後是卡萊托 。 你看到他在左上角的公寓 。
he's looking at his table ; he's planning to propose this evening to his girlfriend of 40 years , and he wants it to be perfect .	他正在看著他的桌子 , 他打算在晚上向他的女友提出這個建議 , 他希望它能完美 。
he's got candles out , he's got flowers in the middle and he's trying to figure out where to put the plates and the glasses .	他把蠟燭拿出來 , 中間有一朵花 , 試圖找出要把盤子和眼鏡放哪裡 。
but he's not happy ; something's wrong .	但他並不開心 , 有些事是錯的 。
the phone rings anyway , he's called to the palazzo .	總之 , 電話響了 , 他被叫去palazo 。
he saunters he saunters at a good clip , but as compared to all the traveling we've just seen , he's sauntering .	他在一段很好的短片上逃跑 , 但和我們剛才看到的旅程相比 , 他在逃跑 。
everybody knows carletto , because he's in entertainment , actually ; he's in television .	大家都知道carletto , 因為他在娛樂上 , 他在電視上 。
he's actually in television repair , which is why people know him .	他其實是在電視修復 , 這就是為什麼人們知道他 。
so they all have his number .	所以他們都有他的數字 。
he arrives at the palazzo , arrives at the big front door .	他到達了帕拉索 , 到達前門前的大門 。
enters the courtyard and talks to the custodian , who tells him that there's been a disaster in the palazzo ; nobody's tvs are working and there's a big soccer game coming up , and the crowd is getting a little restless and a little nervous .	進入庭院 , 和客戶談話 , 他告訴他 , 在帕拉索有一場災難 ; 沒有人在工作 , 足球比賽上來 , 群眾變得有點不安 , 有點緊張 。
he goes down to the basement and starts to check the wiring , and then gradually works his way up to the top of the building , apartment by apartment , checking every television , checking every connection , hoping to find out what this problem is .	他走到地下室 , 開始檢查電線 , 然後漸漸地把他的路往上延伸到建築的頂端 , 公寓 , 檢查每個電視 , 檢查每一個連結 , 希望找出問題是什麼 。
he works his way up , finally , the grand staircase and then a smaller staircase until he reaches the attic .	他終於成功了 , 大樓梯接著一個小樓梯 , 直到他抵達閣樓 。
he opens the window of the attic , of course , and there's a tablecloth wrapped around the building's television antenna .	他打開了閣樓的窗戶 , 當然 , 有一張桌布包著建築物的電視天線 。
he removes it , the problems are solved , everybody in the palazzo is happy .	他移除它 , 問題解決了 , 帕拉索的每個人都快樂 。
and of course , he also solves his own problem .	當然 , 他也解決自己的問題 。
all he has to do now , with a perfect table , is wait for her to arrive .	他現在只需要用一個完美的桌子 , 等著她抵達 。
that was the first attempt , but it didn't seem substantial enough to convey whatever it was i wanted to convey about rome .	那是我第一次嘗試 , 但似乎還不夠實質 , 可以傳達我想要傳達羅馬的內容 。
so i thought , well , i'll just do piazzas , and i'll get inside and underneath and i'll show these things growing and show why they're shaped the way they are and so on .	所以我想 , 好吧 , 我就來做吧 , 我會進去 , 下面我會展示這些東西在成長 , 展示它們為什麼會塑造它們的樣子等等 。
and then i thought , that's too complicated . no , i'll just take my favorite bits and pieces and i'll put them inside the pantheon but keep the scale , so you can see the top of sant'ivo and the pyramid of cestius and the tempietto of bramante all side by side in this amazing space .	然後我就想 , 這太複雜了 。 不 , 我會把我最喜歡的部分和碎片放進萬神廟裡 , 把尺寸放進去 , 這樣你就可以看見聖誕節的頂端 , 西斯提烏斯的金字塔和巴曼特拉曼特的聖殿旁邊 。
now that's one drawing , so i thought maybe it's time for piranesi to meet escher .	這是一張圖 , 所以我想也許是皮蘭西要去見escher的時候了 。
you see that i'm beginning to really lose control here and also hope .	你看我已經開始失去控制權了 , 也失去了希望 。
there's a very thin blue line of exhaust that sort of runs through this thing that would be kind of the trail that holds it all together .	有一條非常薄的藍線 , 會穿過這個東西 , 有點像是把一切連結在一起的軌跡 。
then i thought , " wait a minute , what am i doing ? "	然後我想: 「 等等 , 我在做什麼 ? 」
a book is not only a neat way of collecting and storing information , it's a series of layers .	書不只是收集和儲存資訊的好方法 , 它是一系列的 。
i mean , you always peel one layer off another ; we think of them as pages , doing it a certain way .	我的意思是 , 你總是把一層一層剝下來 ; 我們認為他們是頁面 , 用某種方式來做 。
but think of them as layers . i mean , rome is a place of layers horizontal layers , vertical layers and i thought , well just peeling off a page would allow me to if i got you thinking about it the right way would allow me to sort of show you the depth of layers .	但把它們想成是層級的 。 我的意思是 , 羅馬是一個層級的地平層 , 垂直層層 , 我心想 , 只要把頁面撕下來 , 就能讓我用正確的方式來思考 , 讓我可以向你們展示層次的深度 。
the stucco on the walls of most of the buildings in rome covers the scars ; the scars of centuries of change as these structures have been adapted rather than being torn down .	羅馬大部份建築的牆壁都包含了傷疤 ; 這些結構的傷疤數世紀以來 , 而不是被撕裂 。
if i do a foldout page on the lefthand side and let you just unfold it , you see behind it what i mean by scar tissue .	如果我在左手邊做一張摺疊頁 , 讓你把它展開 , 你可以看到我所謂的疤組織背後的意思 。
you can see that in 1635 , it became essential to make smaller windows because the bad guys were coming or whatever .	你可以看到在1635年 , 製造小型的窗戶是必要的 , 因為壞人要來或其他東西 。
adaptations all get buried under the stucco .	適應都被埋在黏土底下 。
i could peel out a page of this palazzo to show you what's going on inside of it .	我可以把這個palazzo的頁面向你們展示裡面發生了什麼事 。
but more importantly , i could also show you what it looks like at the corner of one of those magnificent buildings with all the massive stone blocks , or the fake stone blocks done with brick and stucco , which is more often the case .	但 , 更重要的是 , 我也能讓你們看看在其中一個偉大的建築角落 , 裡面有大型石塊 , 或是磚塊和黏土所做的假石塊 , 通常更常是如此 。
so it becomes slightly threedimensional .	所以它變得有點立體 。
i could take you down one of those narrow little streets into one of those surprising piazzas by using a double gate fold double foldout page which , if you were like me reading a popup book as a child , you hopefully stick your head into .	我可以把你帶到一條狹窄的小街上 , 用雙重摺疊頁面 , 如果你跟我一樣 , 小時候讀一本pop-up的書 , 你希望能把你的頭伸進去 。
you wrap the pages around your head and are in that piazza for that brief period of time .	你把你的頭包裹起來 , 在那短暫的時間內 。
and i've really not done anything much more complicated than make foldout pages .	我並沒有做任何更複雜的事 , 比起摺疊頁面 ,
but then i thought , maybe i could be simpler here .	但接著我想 , 或許我可以簡單一點 。
let's look at the pantheon and the piazza della rotonda in front of it .	咱們來看看萬神廟 , 前面的pazzallotonda 。
here's a book completely wide open .	這是一本完全開放的書 。
ok , if i don't open the book the whole way , if i just open it 90 degrees , we're looking down the front of the pantheon , and we're looking sort of at the top , more or less down on the square .	好 , 如果我不打開這本書 , 只要我打開它90度 , 我們就在萬神廟的前面 , 我們在看上方 , 往下看 , 往下看 , 往下看 。
and if i turn the book the other way , we're looking across the square at the front of the pantheon .	如果我把這本書的另一面翻過來 , 我們就在萬神殿前看過廣場 。
no foldouts , no tricks just a book that isn't open the whole way .	沒有摺疊品 , 沒有把戲 , 只是一本沒有打開整個過程的書 。
that seemed promising . i thought , maybe i'll do it inside and i can even combine the foldouts with the only partially opened book .	這似乎很有希望 。 我心想 , 也許我會在裡面做 , 我甚至可以把摺紙和唯一開放的書結合在一起 。
so we get inside the pantheon and it grows and so on and so forth .	所以我們走進了萬神廟 , 它不斷地成長 , 等等 。
and i thought , maybe i'm on the right track , but it sort of lost its human quality .	我心想 , 也許我站在正確的軌道上 , 但它失去了人類的品質 。
so i went back to the notion of story , which is always a good thing to have if you're trying to get people to pay attention to a book and pick up information along the way .	所以我回到故事的概念 , 如果你想要讓人們注意書 , 一路上收集資訊 , 總是一件好事 。
" pigeon's progress " struck me as a catchy title .	「 鴿子的進步 」 震撼了我 , 成為一個 「 抓住我 」 的標題 。
if it was a homing pigeon , it would be called " homer's odyssey . "	如果是蜂巢鴿 , 它會被稱為 「 荷馬的奧德賽 」 。
but it was the journey of the . . .	但那是那段旅程......
i mean , if a title works , use it . but it would be a journey that went through rome and showed all the things that i like about rome .	我的意思是 , 如果一個標題有效 , 使用它 , 那會是一段旅程 , 穿過羅馬 , 展示出我喜歡羅馬的東西 。
it's a pigeon sitting on top of a church .	這是一隻鴿子 , 坐在教堂的頂端 。
goes off during the day and does normal pigeon stuff . comes back , the whole place is covered with scaffolding and green netting and there's no way this pigeon can get home .	白天離開 , 做正常的鴿子 。 回來 , 整個地方都被支架和綠色網包覆著 , 這鴿子無法回家 。
so it's a homeless pigeon now and it's going to have to find another place to live , and that allows me to go through my catalog of favorite things , and we start with the tall ones and so on .	它現在是無家可歸的鴿子 , 它必須找到另外一個地方 , 這讓我可以經歷我最喜歡的東西的目錄 , 我們從高度的鴿子開始 。
maybe it has to go back and live with family members ; that's not always a good thing , but it does sort of bring pigeons together again .	也許它得要回去和家人一起生活 , 那不一定是件好事 , 但它確實會讓鴿子再次聚在一起 。
and i thought , that's sort of interesting , but maybe there's a person who should be involved in this in some way .	我心想 , 這有點有趣 , 但也許有一個人應該以某種方式參與其中 。
so i kind of came up with this old guy who spends his life looking after sick pigeons .	所以我想出了一個老傢伙 , 他一生都在照顧生病鴿子 。
he'll go anywhere to get them dangerous places and whatnot and they become really friends with this guy , and learn to do tricks for him and entertain him at lunchtime and stuff like that .	他會去任何地方 , 讓他們去危險的地方 , 什麼不 , 他們會和這個傢伙交朋友 , 學習為他做招術 , 在午餐時間和其他類似的事情上娛樂他 。
there's a real bond that develops between this old man and these pigeons .	這種老人和鴿子之間的關係是真實的 。
but unfortunately he gets sick . he gets really sick at the end of the story .	但不幸的是 , 他生病了 。 他在故事結束後就生病了 。
he's taught them to spell his name , which is aldo .	他教他們拼他的名字 , 艾爾多 。
they show up one day after three or four days of not seeing him he lives in this little garret and they spell his name and fly around .	他們在三、四天後出現 , 看不見他 , 他住在這個小小的車庫裡 , 拼他的名字和飛來飛去 。
and he finally gets enough strength together to climb up the ladder onto the roof , and all the pigeons , a la red balloon , are there waiting for him and they carry him off over the walls of the city .	他終於得到了足夠的力量 , 把梯子爬到屋頂上 , 所有的鴿子 , 拉紅氣球 , 在那裡等著他 , 把他帶到城市的牆上 。
and i forgot to mention this: whenever he lost a pigeon , he would take that pigeon out beyond the walls of the city .	我忘記提到這一點:每當他失去了鴿子時 , 他就會把鴿子放到城市的牆上 。
in the old roman custom , the dead were never buried within the walls .	在老羅馬習俗中 , 死者從來沒有埋藏在牆壁裡 。
and i thought that's a really cheery story .	我以為這是一個非常動人的故事 。
. that's really going to go a long way .	真的很長一段時間了 。
so anyway , i went through . . . and again , if packaging doesn't work and if the stories aren't going anywhere , i just come up with titles and hope that a title will sort of kick me off in the right direction .	總之 , 我經歷了...再一次 , 如果包裝沒有用 , 如果故事不會去任何地方 , 我只想出標題 , 希望書名會把我趕出正確的方向 。
and sometimes it does focus me enough and i'll even do a title page .	有時候它會把我專注在我身上 , 我甚至會做一個標題頁面 。
so , these are all title pages that eventually led me to the solution i settled on , which is the story of a young woman who sends a message on a homing pigeon she lives outside the walls of the city of rome to someone in the city .	所以 , 這些都是標題 , 最終帶我到我定居的解決方案 , 這個故事是關於一個年輕女子的故事 , 她在羅馬城牆外送訊息給城市中的羅馬人 。
and the pigeon is flying down above the appian way here .	鴿子飛上亞洲 。
you can see the tombs and pines and so on and so forth along the way .	你可以看到墳墓和松樹等等 。
if you see the red line , you are seeing the trail of the pigeon ; if you don't see the red line , you are the pigeon .	如果你看到紅線 , 你會看到鴿子的軌跡 ; 如果你看不到紅線 , 你就是鴿子 。
and it becomes necessary and possible , at this point , to try to convey what that sense would be like of flying over the city without actually moving .	在這個時點 , 它變得必要且可能 , 試圖傳達那種飛越城市的感覺是什麼樣的感覺 , 卻沒有真正的動作 。
past the pyramid of cestius these will seem very familiar to you , even if you haven't been to rome recently past the gatehouse .	過了cestius的金字塔 , 似乎對你來說很熟悉 , 即使最近你還沒去過rome , 超越了大門 。
this is something that's a little bit unusual .	這有點不尋常 。
this pigeon does something that most homing pigeons do not do: it takes the scenic route , which was a device that i felt was necessary to actually extend this book beyond about four pages .	這隻鴿子做了一件大部份的居住鴿子都不做的事:它需要那條景色路線 , 我覺得這台裝置是必要的 , 把這本書延伸到四頁以外 。
so , we circle around the coliseum , past the church of santa maria in cosmedin and the temple of hercules towards the river .	所以 , 我們繞過了哥倫比亞教堂 , 穿過了哥斯馬尼亞的聖母堂 , 和海克力士的神廟朝著河流前進 。
we almost collide with the cornice of the palazzo farnese designed by michelangelo , built of stone taken from the coliseum narrow escape .	我們幾乎和米開朗基羅設計的古米開朗基羅的古米開朗基羅 , 由哥倫斯狹窄的逃離所構成的石頭 。
we swoop down over the campo de' fiori .	我們游過柬埔寨的菲律里 。
this is one of those things i show to my students because it's a complete bastardization a denial of any rules of perspective .	這是我向學生展示的其中一件事 , 因為這是一個完整的基準化 , 否認任何規則的觀點 。
the only rule of perspective that i think matters is if it looks believable , you've succeeded .	我認為唯一重要的觀點法則是 , 如果它看起來是可信的 , 你就成功了 。
but you try and figure out where the vanishing points meet here ; a couple are on mars and a couple of others in cremona .	但你試著找出在這裡消失的點 , 幾對在火星上 , 還有幾位在克雷蒙亞的其他地方 。
but into the piazza in front of santa maria della pace , where invariably a soccer game is going on , and we're hit by a soccer ball .	但在聖馬利亞德拉的前面 , 在足球賽的前面 , 我們被足球擊中了 。
now this is a terrible illustration of being hit by a soccer ball .	這張圖很糟糕 , 被足球擊中了 。
i have all the pieces: there's santa maria della pace , there's a soccer ball , there's a little bit of a bird's wing nothing's happening , so i had to rethink it .	我有所有的零件:聖母瑪麗亞•德拉斯 , 有一個足球 , 有一點鳥翅膀沒有發生 , 所以我得要重新思考它 。
and if you do want to see santa maria della pace , these books are really flexible , incredibly interactive just turn it around and look at it the other way .	如果你想看到聖母瑪麗亞德拉的速度 , 這些書真的很靈活 , 令人難以置信的互動 , 轉過頭來看 , 另一方面 。
through the alley , we can see the impact is captured in the red line .	透過巷子 , 我們可以看到紅線所捕捉到的影響 。
and then bird manages to pull itself together past this medieval tower one of the few remaining medieval towers towards the church of sant'agnese and around the dome looking down into piazza navona which we've already mentioned and seen and flown over a couple of times ; there's the bernini statue of the four rivers and then past the wonderful borromini sant'ivo , stopping just long enough on the 26foot diameter oculus of the pantheon to catch our breath .	然後鳥類把自己拉到中世紀的高塔上 , 剩下的少數中世紀大樓 , 朝聖誕老人的教堂 , 向下看 , 向下看 , 向下看 , 我們已經提到 , 看過了幾次 , 看到了 , 流過了四條河流的伯尼斯塔 , 然後超越了偉大的布魯米羅米諾•桑迪諾 , 停止了26英尺長的距離 , 停止了我們的呼吸道 。
and then we can swoop inside and around ; and because we're flying , we don't really have to worry about gravity at this particular moment in time , so this drawing can be oriented in any way on the page .	接著 , 我們可以四處流動 , 因為我們在飛行 , 我們不需要擔心重力在這個特定時刻 , 所以這幅圖可以以任何方式在頁面上被引導 。
we get a little exuberant as we pass gesu ; it's not surprising to sort of mimic the architecture in this way .	當我們通過gesu時 , 我們會有點興奮 ; 這並不讓人意外 , 用這種方式模仿建築 。
past the wonderful wall filled with the juxtaposition that i was talking about ; beautiful carvings set into the walls above the neon " ristorante " sign , and so on .	穿過我剛剛提到的美好的牆壁 , 美麗的雕刻在尼龍 「 崛起 」 上方的牆上 , 等等 。
and eventually , we arrive at the courtyard of the palazzo , which is our destination .	最終 , 我們到達了帕拉索的庭院 , 那是我們的目的 。
straight up through the courtyard into a little window into the attic , where somebody is working at the drawing board .	直接穿過庭院 , 進入一個小窗戶 , 進入閣樓 , 有人在畫板上工作 。
he removes the message from the leg of the bird ; this is what it says .	他從鳥的腿部移除訊息 , 這是它所說的 。
as we look at the drawing board , we see what he's working on is , in fact , a map of the journey that the pigeon has just taken , and the red line extends through all the sights .	當我們看著畫板時 , 我們看到他正在做的事 , 事實上 , 鴿子剛剛拍攝的旅程地圖 , 紅線延伸了所有的視野 。
and if you want the information , so that we complete this cycle of understanding , all you have to do is read these paragraphs .	如果你想要這些資訊 , 所以我們完成了這個關於理解的循環 , 你只需要閱讀這些段落 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
mit researcher skylar tibbits works on selfassembly the idea that instead of building something , we can create materials that build themselves , much the way a strand of dna zips itself together . it's a big concept at early stages ; tibbits shows us three inthelab projects that hint at what a selfassembling future might look like .	麻省理工學院研究者skylarstibbit在自我組裝上 , 而不是建造東西 , 我們可以創造一些材料 , 更像dnazips本身 , 這是個很大的概念 。 tibbits告訴我們三項關於自我組裝未來的計畫 。
skylar tibbits: can we make things that make themselves ?	天空的tibbits:我們能製造製造製造製造自己的東西嗎 ?
today i'd like to show you the future of the way we make things .	今天我想向你們展示我們創造東西的方式的未來 。
i believe that soon our buildings and machines will be selfassembling , replicating and repairing themselves .	我相信 , 很快我們的建築和機器就會自我組裝、複製、修復自己 。
so i'm going to show you what i believe is the current state of manufacturing , and then compare that to some natural systems .	我將向你們展示我所相信的 , 是目前製造業的狀態 , 然後將它和一些自然系統做比較 。
so in the current state of manufacturing , we have skyscrapers two and a half years [of assembly time] , 500 , 000 to a million parts , fairly complex , new , exciting technologies in steel , concrete , glass .	在目前的製造狀態中 , 我們有摩天大樓兩年半的時間 , 五十萬到一百萬個零件 , 相當複雜、令人興奮的新技術 , 鋼鐵、水泥、玻璃 。
we have exciting machines that can take us into space five years [of assembly time] , 2 . 5 million parts .	我們有令人興奮的機器可以帶我們進入太空五年--[組裝時間]250萬個零件 。
but on the other side , if you look at the natural systems , we have proteins that have two million types , can fold in 10 , 000 nanoseconds , or dna with three billion base pairs we can replicate in roughly an hour .	但另一方面 , 如果你看自然系統 , 我們有兩百萬種蛋白質 , 可以摺疊一萬奈秒 , 或用三十億鹼基對 , 我們可以在大約一小時內複製 。
so there's all of this complexity in our natural systems , but they're extremely efficient , far more efficient than anything we can build , far more complex than anything we can build .	所以 , 我們的自然系統中有這麼多複雜性 , 但它們非常有效率 , 比我們能建造的任何東西都還要有效率 , 遠遠比我們能建造的任何東西都還要複雜 。
they're far more efficient in terms of energy .	在能源方面 , 它們的效率更高 。
they hardly ever make mistakes .	他們幾乎不會犯錯 。
and they can repair themselves for longevity .	他們可以修復自己長壽 。
so there's something super interesting about natural systems .	所以 , 自然系統有一點很有趣 。
and if we can translate that into our built environment , then there's some exciting potential for the way that we build things .	如果我們能將它轉化到我們的建築環境中 , 那就有一些令人興奮的潛力 , 可以用來建造東西 。
and i think the key to that is selfassembly .	我認為關鍵在於自我組裝 。
so if we want to utilize selfassembly in our physical environment , i think there's four key factors .	所以 , 如果我們想要在我們的實體環境中利用自我組裝 , 我認為有四個關鍵因素 。
the first is that we need to decode all of the complexity of what we want to build so our buildings and machines .	首先 , 我們需要解碼所有我們想要建造的複雜性 , 來建造建築和機器 。
and we need to decode that into simple sequences basically the dna of how our buildings work .	我們需要把它解碼成簡單的序列 , 基本上就是我們的建築物如何運作的dna 。
then we need programmable parts that can take that sequence and use that to fold up , or reconfigure .	接著 , 我們需要可編寫的零件 , 可以把這些序列拿來摺疊 , 或重新配置 。
we need some energy that's going to allow that to activate , allow our parts to be able to fold up from the program .	我們需要一些能量 , 讓它能夠啟動 , 讓我們的零件能夠從程式中摺疊 。
and we need some type of error correction redundancy to guarantee that we have successfully built what we want .	我們需要某種類型的錯誤控權來確保我們成功地建立了我們想要的東西 。
so i'm going to show you a number of projects that my colleagues and i at mit are working on to achieve this selfassembling future .	所以我要給你們看一些計畫 , 我的同事和我在麻省理工正在努力達成這個自我組裝的未來 。
the first two are the macrobot and decibot .	前兩個是macrobot和decibot 。
so these projects are largescale reconfigurable robots 8 ft . , 12 ft . long proteins .	這些計畫是大規模的可重組機器人8英尺 , 12英尺長的蛋白質 。
they're embedded with mechanical electrical devices , sensors .	他們嵌入了機械裝置 , 感測器 。
you decode what you want to fold up into , into a sequence of angles so negative 120 , negative 120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , negative 120 something like that ; so a sequence of angles , or turns , and you send that sequence through the string .	你解碼你想要摺疊的是什麼 , 變成一連串的角度-120 , 負120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , 120 , 負120 , 類似這樣的東西 ; 一連串的角度 , 或轉 , 然後你將序列透過弦傳遞 。
each unit takes its message so negative 120 it rotates to that , checks if it got there and then passes it to its neighbor .	每個單位都會收到它的訊息 , 負120個它會轉到那邊 , 檢查是否到那邊 , 然後把它傳給鄰居 。
so these are the brilliant scientists , engineers , designers that worked on this project .	這些傑出的科學家、工程師、設計師在這個計畫上工作 。
and i think it really brings to light: is this really scalable ?	我認為它真的能帶來光明:它真的很可擴展嗎 ?
i mean , thousands of dollars , lots of man hours made to make this eightfoot robot .	我的意思是 , 成千上萬美元 , 製造了這個八英尺的機器人 。
can we really scale this up ? can we really embed robotics into every part ?	我們真的能把這個放大嗎 ? 我們真的能把機器人放到每一個部分嗎 ?
the next one questions that and looks at passive nature , or passively trying to have reconfiguration programmability .	下一個問題 , 看看被動性大自然 , 或被動地試圖進行調整編程 。
but it goes a step further , and it tries to have actual computation .	但它進一步進一步 , 它試圖進行實際的計算 。
it basically embeds the most fundamental building block of computing , the digital logic gate , directly into your parts .	它基本上是計算最基本的基礎積木 , 數位邏輯大門 , 直接嵌入你的部分 。
so this is a nand gate .	這是nandgate 。
you have one tetrahedron which is the gate that's going to do your computing , and you have two input tetrahedrons .	你有一個四面體 , 它是通往你的電腦的大門 , 你有兩個輸入的四面體 。
one of them is the input from the user , as you're building your bricks .	其中一個是使用者的輸入 , 當你在建造你的磚塊時 。
the other one is from the previous brick that was placed .	另外一個是從前面的磚塊中放出來的 。
and then it gives you an output in 3d space .	再給你一個3d空間的輸出 。
so what this means is that the user can start plugging in what they want the bricks to do .	意思是 , 使用者可以開始加入他們想要的磚塊 。
it computes on what it was doing before and what you said you wanted it to do .	它會計算它以前所做的事 , 你說它要它做的事 。
and now it starts moving in threedimensional space so up or down .	現在它開始在三維空間上下移動 。
so on the lefthand side , [1 , 1] input equals 0 output , which goes down .	所以在左手邊 , [1、1]輸入等於0的輸出 , 就會下降 。
on the righthand side , [0 , 0] input is a 1 output , which goes up .	在右手邊 , [0 , 0]輸入是1個輸出值 , 就會上升 。
and so what that really means is that our structures now contain the blueprints of what we want to build .	這意味著我們的結構現在包含了我們想要建造的藍圖 。
so they have all of the information embedded in them of what was constructed .	所以他們所有的資訊都嵌入其中 , 說明了什麼是被建構出來的 。
so that means that we can have some form of selfreplication .	這意味著我們可以有某種形式的自我複製 。
in this case i call it selfguided replication , because your structure contains the exact blueprints .	在這個例子中 , 我稱它為自動複製 , 因為你的結構包含了精確的藍圖 。
if you have errors , you can replace a part .	如果你有錯誤 , 你可以取代部分 。
all the local information is embedded to tell you how to fix it .	所有的當地資訊都嵌入在上面 , 告訴你如何修復它 。
so you could have something that climbs along and reads it and can output at one to one .	所以你可能有爬上去讀取的東西 , 可以輸出一個到一個 。
it's directly embedded ; there's no external instructions .	它是直接嵌入的 , 沒有外部指令 。
so the last project i'll show is called biased chains , and it's probably the most exciting example that we have right now of passive selfassembly systems .	我將展示的最後一個專案叫做 「 偏見鏈 」 , 它可能是我們目前最令人興奮的例子 , 被動自我組裝系統 。
so it takes the reconfigurability and programmability and makes it a completely passive system .	所以 , 它需要可重組性和可編程性 , 讓它成為一個完全被動的系統 。
so basically you have a chain of elements .	所以基本上你有一連串的元素 。
each element is completely identical , and they're biased .	每一個元素都是完全相同的 , 它們有偏見 。
so each chain , or each element , wants to turn right or left .	所以每條鏈 , 或每一個元素 , 都想要左轉或左轉 。
so as you assemble the chain , you're basically programming it .	所以當你組裝鏈時 , 你基本上是在編寫它 。
you're telling each unit if it should turn right or left .	你要告訴每個單位是否該轉左轉 。
so when you shake the chain , it then folds up into any configuration that you've programmed in so in this case , a spiral , or in this case , two cubes next to each other .	所以當你搖動鏈 , 它會摺疊成任何你編程的組合 , 例如 , 螺旋 , 或這個例子 , 兩個立方體相互相相對 。
so you can basically program any threedimensional shape or onedimensional , twodimensional up into this chain completely passively .	所以基本上你可以程式任何三維的形狀或維度的二維空間 , 完全被動地進入這個鏈 。
so what does this tell us about the future ?	所以 , 這告訴我們未來什麼 ?
i think that it's telling us that there's new possibilities for selfassembly , replication , repair in our physical structures , our buildings , machines .	我認為這告訴我們有新的可能性可以自我組裝、複製、修復我們的實體結構、建築物、機器 。
there's new programmability in these parts .	這些部分有新的可編寫能力 。
and from that you have new possibilities for computing .	從中 , 你有新的計算可能性 。
we'll have spatial computing .	我們會有空間計算 。
imagine if our buildings , our bridges , machines , all of our bricks could actually compute .	想像一下如果我們的建築物、橋樑、機器 , 所有的磚塊都可以計算 。
that's amazing parallel and distributed computing power , new design possibilities .	那是很驚人的平行和分散式的計算能力 , 新的設計可能性 。
so it's exciting potential for this .	對此 , 它是令人興奮的潛力 。
so i think these projects i've showed here are just a tiny step towards this future , if we implement these new technologies for a new selfassembling world .	所以 , 我認為我在這裡所展示的這些計畫只是一個小步 , 邁向這個未來 , 如果我們實行這些新科技 , 來創造一個新的自我組合世界 。
we've been to the moon , we've mapped the continents , we've even been to the deepest point in the ocean twice . what's left for the next generation to explore ? biologist and explorer nathan wolfe suggests this answer: almost everything . and we can start , he says , with the world of the unseeably small .	我們去過月球 , 我們繪製了非洲大陸 , 我們甚至去過海底最深的一點 。 下一代要探究什麼 ? 生物學家和探險者nathanwolfe提出了這個答案:幾乎每一件事 。 他說 , 帶著這個不可思議的世界 。
biodiversity , exploration , microbiology , science	生物多樣性、探索、微生物學、科學、科學、科學、生物學、
nathan wolfe: what's left to explore ?	內森•沃爾夫:要去探索什麼 ?
recently i visited beloit , wisconsin .	最近我去了威斯康辛州的貝洛特 。
and i was there to honor a great 20th century explorer , roy chapman andrews .	我在那裡榮耀一個偉大的二十世紀探險家羅伊•查普曼•安德魯斯 。
during his time at the american museum of natural history , andrews led a range of expeditions to uncharted regions , like here in the gobi desert .	在他在美國自然歷史博物館的時代 , 安德魯斯領導了一系列的探險 , 來到未知的地區 , 例如在戈壁沙漠 。
he was quite a figure .	他是個人物 。
he was later , it's said , the basis of the indiana jones character .	後來他說 , 印第安納瓊斯人物的基礎 。
and when i was in beloit , wisconsin , i gave a public lecture to a group of middle school students .	當我在威斯康辛州的貝洛特時 , 我給一群中學學生公開講座 。
and i'm here to tell you , if there's anything more intimidating than talking here at ted , it'll be trying to hold the attention of a group of a thousand 12yearolds for a 45minute lecture .	我來這裡要告訴各位 , 如果在ted演講中 , 比在座的演講更親密的話 , 它會試圖注意到一群45分鐘課程中的一千二歲人 。
at the end of the lecture they asked a number of questions , but there was one that's really stuck with me since then .	演講結束時 , 他們問了幾個問題 , 但從那時起 , 我就一直困住了 。
there was a young girl who stood up , and she asked the question: " where should we explore ? "	有位年輕女孩站起來 , 她問: 「 我們該去哪裡探索 ? 」
i think there's a sense that many of us have that the great age of exploration on earth is over , that for the next generation they're going to have to go to outer space or the deepest oceans in order to find something significant to explore .	我認為有很多人有一種感覺 , 地球上偉大的探索時代已經結束了 , 在下一代 , 他們得要去外太空或深海 , 才能找到重要的探索 。
but is that really the case ?	但這是真的嗎 ?
is there really nowhere significant for us to explore left here on earth ?	地球上真的沒有任何東西可以讓我們探索嗎 ?
it sort of made me think back to one of my favorite explorers in the history of biology .	這讓我回想起生物歷史中我最喜歡的探險家之一 。
this is an explorer of the unseen world , martinus beijerinck .	這是一個看不見的世界的探險家 , 馬丁烏斯•貝吉尼克 。
so beijerinck set out to discover the cause of tobacco mosaic disease .	所以 , beijerinck開始發現菸草病的成因 。
what he did is he took the infected juice from tobacco plants and he would filter it through smaller and smaller filters .	他所做的是把被感染的果汁從菸草植物中取出 , 將它過濾成更小、更小的過濾器 。
and he reached the point where he felt that there must be something out there that was smaller than the smallest forms of life that were ever known bacteria , at the time .	他到了那個時候 , 他覺得一定有某種比當時所知最小型的生命形式還要小的東西 。
he came up with a name for his mystery agent .	他為他的謎團找了一個名字 。
he called it the virus latin for " poison . "	他稱它為 「 毒藥 」 的拉丁文 。
and in uncovering viruses , beijerinck really opened this entirely new world for us .	在揭開病毒的過程中 , beijerinck為我們開啟了這個全新的世界 。
we now know that viruses make up the majority of the genetic information on our planet , more than the genetic information of all other forms of life combined .	我們現在知道病毒組成地球上大部分的基因信息 , 遠超過所有其他生命形式的基因信息 。
and obviously there's been tremendous practical applications associated with this world things like the eradication of smallpox , the advent of a vaccine against cervical cancer , which we now know is mostly caused by human papillomavirus .	很明顯地 , 已經有很大的實際應用 , 和這個世界有關 , 比如根除天花 , 疫苗的出現是對子宮頸癌的先鋒 , 我們現在知道 , 大部分是由人類的帕羅馬病毒造成的 。
and beijerinck's discovery , this was not something that occurred 500 years ago .	beijerinck的發現 , 這不是500年前發生的事 。
it was a little over 100 years ago that beijerinck discovered viruses .	大約一百多年前 , beijerinck發現了病毒 。
so basically we had automobiles , but we were unaware of the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	基本上 , 我們有汽車 , 但我們不知道生命形式是如何組成地球上大部分基因信息的 。
we now have these amazing tools to allow us to explore the unseen world things like deep sequencing , which allow us to do much more than just skim the surface and look at individual genomes from a particular species , but to look at entire metagenomes , the communities of teeming microorganisms in , on and around us and to document all of the genetic information in these species .	我們現在有了不可思議的工具 , 來探索那些看不見的世界 , 例如深度定序 , 讓我們能做得遠遠超過表面 , 從特定物種看個人基因組 , 再來看看整個新陳代數 , 微生物群落在我們身邊 , 記錄這些物種的基因信息 。
we can apply these techniques to things from soil to skin and everything in between .	我們可以把這些技巧用在土壤、皮膚、所有東西之間 。
in my organization we now do this on a regular basis to identify the causes of outbreaks that are unclear exactly what causes them .	在我的組織中 , 我們現在常常這樣做 , 來辨識出爆發的原因 , 完全是造成它們的原因 。
and just to give you a sense of how this works , imagine that we took a nasal swab from every single one of you .	為了讓各位了解這如何運作 , 想像一下 , 我們從你們每一個人身上都拿了一個鼻子 。
and this is something we commonly do to look for respiratory viruses like influenza .	這是我們常用這種方法來尋找呼吸道病毒 , 比如流感病毒 。
the first thing we would see is a tremendous amount of genetic information .	首先我們會看到的是大量的基因信息 。
and if we started looking into that genetic information , we'd see a number of usual suspects out there of course , a lot of human genetic information , but also bacterial and viral information , mostly from things that are completely harmless within your nose .	如果我們開始研究這些基因信息 , 我們會看到一些常見的猜測 , 當然 , 很多人類的基因信息 , 同時 , 細菌和病毒信息 , 大部分來自你鼻子內完全沒有傷害的事物 。
but we'd also see something very , very surprising .	但我們也會看到非常非常令人驚訝的東西 。
as we started to look at this information , we would see that about 20 percent of the genetic information in your nose doesn't match anything that we've ever seen before no plant , animal , fungus , virus or bacteria .	當我們開始研究這些資訊時 , 我們會發現 , 你鼻子裡大約百分之二十的基因信息並不符合任何我們從未見過的植物、動物、真菌、病毒或細菌 。
basically we have no clue what this is .	基本上 , 我們不知道這是什麼 。
and for the small group of us who actually study this kind of data , a few of us have actually begun to call this information biological dark matter .	對於我們這些研究這類資料的小團體 , 我們當中少數人已經開始稱之為生物暗物質 。
we know it's not anything that we've seen before ; it's sort of the equivalent of an uncharted continent right within our own genetic information .	我們知道這不是我們以前見過的任何東西 , 而是相當於在我們自己的基因信息中未知的大陸 。
and there's a lot of it .	還有很多 。
if you think 20 percent of genetic information in your nose is a lot of biological dark matter , if we looked at your gut , up to 40 or 50 percent of that information is biological dark matter .	如果你認為你鼻子裡百分之二十的基因信息是很多生物暗物質 , 如果我們觀察你的腸道 , 高達百分之四十到五十的信息是生物暗物質 。
and even in the relatively sterile blood , around one to two percent of this information is dark matter can't be classified , can't be typed or matched with anything we've seen before .	即使在相對不穩定的血液中 , 大約有1%到2%的資訊是暗物質無法被分類 , 也不能被輸入或配對 。
at first we thought that perhaps this was artifact .	一開始我們以為這是人造物 。
these deep sequencing tools are relatively new .	這些深度定序的工具相對比較新 。
but as they become more and more accurate , we've determined that this information is a form of life , or at least some of it is a form of life .	但隨著他們越來越準確 , 我們決定了這些資訊是生命的一種形式 , 或者至少其中一些是生命的一種形式 。
and while the hypotheses for explaining the existence of biological dark matter are really only in their infancy , there's a very , very exciting possibility that exists: that buried in this life , in this genetic information , are signatures of as of yet unidentified life .	雖然解釋生物暗物質存在的假設只存在於它們的暗物質中 , 存在著非常非常令人興奮的可能性:在這個生命中埋藏在這個基因信息中 , 代表著尚未被辨識的生命的特徵 。
that as we explore these strings of a's , t's , c's and g's , we may uncover a completely new class of life that , like beijerinck , will fundamentally change the way that we think about the nature of biology .	當我們探索一連串的a、t、c、g , 我們可能會發現一個全新的生命階級 , 例如beijerinck , 將徹底改變我們對生物學的本質 。
that perhaps will allow us to identify the cause of a cancer that afflicts us or identify the source of an outbreak that we aren't familiar with or perhaps create a new tool in molecular biology .	或許可以讓我們辨識出癌症的成因 , 或辨識出我們不熟悉的爆發病源 , 或是在分子生物學中創造出新的工具 。
i'm pleased to announce that , along with colleagues at stanford and caltech and ucsf , we're currently starting an initiative to explore biological dark matter for the existence of new forms of life .	我很高興地宣布 , 和史丹佛大學的同事、加州理工學院和加州理工學院的同事們一起 , 我們目前正在開始一項計畫 , 來探索生物暗物質 , 來探索新的生命存在 。
a little over a hundred years ago , people were unaware of viruses , the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	大約一百多年前 , 人們不知道病毒 , 生命形式是地球上大部分的基因信息組成的 。
a hundred years from now , people may marvel that we were perhaps completely unaware of a new class of life that literally was right under our noses .	一百年後 , 人們可能會驚嘆 , 我們可能完全不知道一種新的生活階級 , 真的就在我們的鼻子底下 。
it's true , we may have charted all the continents on the planet and we may have discovered all the mammals that are out there , but that doesn't mean that there's nothing left to explore on earth .	沒錯 , 我們可能對地球上所有的大陸作了圖表 , 我們可能已經發現了所有外面的哺乳動物 , 但這並不表示地球上沒有任何東西可以探索 。
beijerinck and his kind provide an important lesson for the next generation of explorers people like that young girl from beloit , wisconsin .	beijerinck和他的善良為下一代的探險家提供了很重要的一課 , 像是威斯康辛州的貝洛特年輕女孩 。
and i think if we phrase that lesson , it's something like this: don't assume that what we currently think is out there is the full story .	我認為如果我們這樣說 , 就會是這樣的:不要假設我們目前認為的全部故事是全部的 。
go after the dark matter in whatever field you choose to explore .	在你選擇探索的領域中 , 去探索暗物質 。
there are unknowns all around us and they're just waiting to be discovered .	我們身邊有未知的事物 , 他們只是等著被發現 。
legendary scientist david deutsch puts theoretical physics on the back burner to discuss a more urgent matter: the survival of our species . the first step toward solving global warming , he says , is to admit that we have a problem .	傳奇科學家daviddeutsch把理論物理放在後埋葬上 , 來討論更迫切的問題:人類的生存 。 他說 , 解決全球暖化的第一步 , 就是承認我們有一個問題 。
climate change , cosmos , culture , environment , global issues , physics , science , technology , universe	氣候變遷、宇宙、文化、全球議題、物理、科學、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙 。
david deutsch on our place in the cosmos	daviddeutsch在宇宙中的我們位置 。
we've been told to go out on a limb and say something surprising .	我們被告知要走出肢體 , 說出令人驚訝的事 。
so i'll try and do that , but i want to start with two things that everyone already knows .	我會試著這樣做 , 但我想要從大家已經知道的兩件事開始 。
and the first one , in fact , is something that has been known for most of recorded history .	事實上 , 首先 , 是歷史上大部分人都知道的 。
and that is that the planet earth , or the solar system , or our environment or whatever , is uniquely suited to sustain our evolution or creation , as it used to be thought and our present existence , and most important , our future survival .	那就是地球 , 太陽系 , 或我們的環境 , 或其它的地球 , 都是獨一無二的適合來維持我們的演化或創造 , 就像過去的思想和我們現在的存在一樣 , 最重要的是 , 我們的未來的生存 。
nowadays this idea has a dramatic name: spaceship earth .	現今這個想法有個戲劇性的名字:太空船地球 。
and the idea there is that outside the spaceship , the universe is implacably hostile , and inside is all we have , all we depend on .	想法是 , 在太空船外面 , 宇宙是不可思議的 , 而內部是我們所擁有的 , 我們所仰賴的一切 。
and we only get the one chance: if we mess up our spaceship , we've got nowhere else to go .	我們只有一個機會:如果我們搞砸了我們的太空船 , 我們就沒有其他地方可以去 。
now , the second thing that everyone already knows is that contrary to what was believed for most of human history , human beings are not , in fact , the hub of existence .	第二件事 , 大家都知道的 , 與大部分人類歷史所相信的相反 , 事實上 , 人類並不是存在的中心 。
as stephen hawking famously said , we're just a chemical scum on the surface of a typical planet that's in orbit around a typical star , which is on the outskirts of a typical galaxy , and so on .	如同史蒂芬•霍金所說 , 我們只是一個典型的星球表面上的化學雕像 , 繞著一個典型的恆星繞著一個典型的星球 , 位在一個典型的銀河系的郊區 , 諸如此類 。
now the first of those two things that everyone knows is kind of saying that we're at a very untypical place , uniquely suited and so on , and the second one is saying that we're at a typical place .	大家所知道的這兩件事的第一件事就是說我們處在一個非常不典型的地方 , 獨一無二的服裝等等 , 第二件事是說我們處在一個典型的地方 。
and especially if you regard these two as deep truths to live by and to inform your life decisions , then they seem a little bit to conflict with each other .	特別是如果你把這兩種真相視為深刻的真相 , 來告知你人生的決定 , 那麼他們似乎有點衝突彼此 。
but that doesn't prevent them from both being completely false .	但這並不能阻止他們完全錯誤 。
and they are . so let me start with the second one: typical . well is this a typical place ? well , let's look around , you know , and look in a random direction , and we see a wall , and chemical scum and that's not typical of the universe at all .	他們是的 。 讓我先從第二個例子開始 , 很典型嗎 ? 嗯 , 我們來看看四周 , 看看隨機方向 , 然後我們看到一面牆 , 化學氣囊 , 這完全不是典型的宇宙 。
all you've got to do is go a few hundred miles in that same direction and look back , and you won't see any walls or chemical scum at all all you see is a blue planet . and if you go further than that , you'll see the sun , the solar system , and the stars and so on .	你要做的只是朝同一個方向走幾百英里 , 回頭看 , 你不會看到任何牆或化學污垢 , 你看到的就是藍色的行星 。 如果你更進一步 , 你會看到太陽、太陽系 , 和恆星等等 。
but that's still not typical of the universe , because stars come in galaxies .	但那仍然不典型的宇宙 , 因為星星會進入銀河系 。
and most places in the universe , a typical place in the universe , is nowhere near any galaxies .	宇宙中大部分的地方 , 一個典型的地方 , 幾乎沒有任何星系 。
so let's go out further , till we're outside the galaxy , and look back , and yeah , there's the huge galaxy with spiral arms laid out in front of us .	所以 , 讓我們再往外走 , 直到我們在銀河系外面 , 回頭看 , 是的 , 銀河系有著巨大的銀河系 , 螺旋臂在我們面前擺動 。
and at this point we've come 100 , 000 light years from here .	此時此刻 , 我們已經有十萬光年了 。
but we're still nowhere near a typical place in the universe .	但是我們仍處於一個典型的宇宙中 。
to get to a typical place , you've got to go 1 , 000 times as far as that into intergalactic space .	要到一個典型的地方 , 你要到達一千倍的距離 , 到達一個星系間的空間 。
and so what does that look like ? typical .	那看起來是什麼樣子 ? 典型的 。
what does a typical place in the universe look like ?	在宇宙中典型的地方是什麼樣子 ?
well , at enormous expense , ted has arranged a highresolution immersion virtual reality rendering of intergalactic space the view from intergalactic space .	嗯 , 在巨大的代價下 , ted已經安排了高解析度的虛擬實境 , 從星系間空間的角度呈現出銀河空間 。
so can we have the lights off , please , so we can see it ?	請把燈關掉 , 請看 , 這樣我們就可以看得到嗎 ?
well , not quite , not quite perfect you see , in intergalactic space intergalactic space is completely dark , pitch dark .	嗯 , 不太完美你可以看到 , 在星系間的空間中是完全漆黑的 , 漆黑的 。
it's so dark that if you were to be looking at the nearest star to you , and that star were to explode as a supernova , and you were to be staring directly at it at the moment when its light reached you , you still wouldn't be able to see even a glimmer .	如果你看著最近的恆星 , 那顆恆星就會爆炸成超新星 , 你就直接盯著它看 , 當它照亮你時 , 你甚至無法看到一個滑翔生物 。
that's how big and how dark the universe is .	這就是宇宙的大小和暗度 。
and that's despite the fact that a supernova is so bright , so brilliant an event , that it would kill you stone dead at a range of several light years .	儘管超新星很亮 , 很聰明 , 但它會讓你死於數年的光年 。
and yet from intergalactic space , it's so far away you wouldn't even see it .	然而 , 從星系間的空間 , 到目前為止 , 你甚至看不到它 。
it's also very cold out there less than three degrees above absolute zero .	那裡的溫度也很低 , 絕對零度超過三度 。
and it's very empty . the vacuum there is one million times less dense than the highest vacuum that our best technology on earth can currently create . so that's how different a typical place is from this place .	這是非常空的 。 真空狀態下的密度比目前地球上最好的科技能創造的高達一百萬倍 。 這就是典型的地點 。
and that is how untypical this place is .	這就是這個地方的不典型 。
so can we have the lights back on please ? thank you .	所以 , 我們能把燈關回來嗎 ? 謝謝
now how do we know about an environment that's so far away , and so different , and so alien , from anything we're used to ?	我們如何知道一個遙遠的環境 , 如此不同 , 外星人 , 和我們以前習慣的任何環境 ?
well , the earth our environment , in the form of us is creating knowledge .	地球 , 我們的環境 , 以我們的方式 , 正在創造知識 。
well , what does that mean ? well , look out even further than we've just been i mean from here , with a telescope and you'll see things that look like stars .	嗯 , 這意味著什麼 ? 嗯 , 看看比我們剛剛從這裡看到的還要遠一點 , 用望遠鏡 , 你會看到看起來像恆星的東西 。
they're called " quasars . " quasars originally meant quasistellar object .	它們被稱為 「 夸薩 」 。 夸薩爾原本是指量子星體 。
which means things that look a bit like stars . but they're not stars .	這意味著看起來有點像恆星 , 但它們不是恆星 。
and we know what they are . billions of years ago , and billions of light years away , the material at the center of a galaxy collapsed towards a supermassive black hole .	我們知道它們是什麼 。 數十億年前 , 數十億光年後 , 星系中心的物質崩塌成一個超大質量的黑洞 。
and then intense magnetic fields directed some of the energy of that gravitational collapse . and some of the matter , back out in the form of tremendous jets which illuminated lobes with the brilliance of i think it's a trillion suns .	然後強烈的磁場引導了重力崩塌的部分能量 。 其中一些物質以巨大的噴射流形式 , 以光明的角度照亮了葉子 , 我認為它是一兆個太陽 。
now , the physics of the human brain could hardly be more unlike the physics of such a jet .	現在 , 人類大腦的物理學幾乎不可能和這台噴射機的物理更不一樣 。
we couldn't survive for an instant in it . language breaks down when trying to describe what it would be like in one of those jets .	我們無法即時存活下來 。 語言瓦解 , 試圖描述其中一個噴射機中會是什麼樣子 。
it would be a bit like experiencing a supernova explosion , but at pointblank range and for millions of years at a time .	這有點像是體驗到超新星爆炸 , 但在尖端的範圍 , 一次又幾百萬年 。
and yet , that jet happened in precisely such a way that billions of years later , on the other side of the universe , some bit of chemical scum could accurately describe , and model , and predict , and explain , above all there's your reference what was happening there , in reality .	然而 , 這台噴射機在數十億年後發生在宇宙的另一端 , 有些化學污垢可以準確地描述、模型、預測 , 並解釋 , 最重要的是 , 你在現實中所發生的事 。
the one physical system , the brain , contains an accurate working model of the other the quasar .	一個物理系統 , 一個大腦 , 包含了一個精確的運作模式 , 其它夸薩爾 。
not just a superficial image of it , though it contains that as well , but an explanatory model , embodying the same mathematical relationships and the same causal structure .	不僅僅是它的超平面形象 , 雖然它包含了它 , 還包含了解釋性的模型 , 體現出相同的數學關係 , 以及相同的因果結構 。
now that is knowledge . and if that weren't amazing enough , the faithfulness with which the one structure resembles the other is increasing with time . that is the growth of knowledge .	這才是知識 。 如果這還不夠驚人 , 其中一個結構和另一個結構相似 , 就是隨著時間的增長 。 這就是知識的增長 。
so , the laws of physics have this special property .	所以 , 物理定律有這種特殊的特性 。
that physical objects , as unlike each other as they could possibly be , can nevertheless embody the same mathematical and causal structure and to do it more and more so over time .	那個實體物體 , 和它們可能不同 , 仍然可以體現相同的數學和因果結構 , 隨著時間不斷地實現 。
so we are a chemical scum that is different . this chemical scum has universality .	所以 , 我們是種不同的化學氣味 。 這種化學氣味有普遍性 。
its structure contains , with everincreasing precision , the structure of everything . this place , and not other places in the universe , is a hub which contains within itself the structural and causal essence of the whole of the rest of physical reality . and so , far from being insignificant , the fact that the laws of physics allow this , or even mandate that this can happen , is one of the most important things about the physical world .	它的結構 , 包含著不斷增加的精確度 , 萬物的結構 。 這個位置 , 而非宇宙中的其他位置 , 是它本身的結構和因果的本質 , 包含了整個實體現實的本質 。 到目前為止 , 不論是無知 , 物理定律允許這個定律 , 甚至允許它發生 , 是物理世界最重要的事項之一 。
now how does the solar system and our environment , in the form of us acquire this special relationship with the rest of the universe ?	太陽系和我們的環境 , 如何在我們與宇宙其餘的關係中取得這種特殊的關係 ?
well , one thing that's true about stephen hawking's remark i mean , it is true , but it's the wrong emphasis . one thing that's true about it is that it doesn't do it with any special physics . there's no special dispensation , no miracles involved . it does it simply with three things that we have here in abundance .	嗯 , 史蒂芬霍金的提議有一個事實 , 我是說 , 這是真的 , 但這是錯誤的強調 。 一件事是 , 它沒有用任何特殊的物理 。 沒有特殊的干擾 , 沒有奇蹟涉入 。 它只用了我們這裡的三樣東西 。
one of them is matter , because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing . information processing is computation , computation requires a computer there's no known way of making a computer without matter .	其中一個是物質 , 因為知識的增長是資訊處理的一種形式 , 資訊處理是計算 , 計算需要一台電腦 , 沒有知道製造電腦的方法 。
we also need energy to make the computer , and most important , to make the media in effect onto which we record the knowledge that we discover .	我們也需要精力來製造電腦 , 最重要的是 , 讓媒體能夠影響我們所發現的知識 。
and then thirdly , less tangible , but just as essential for the openended creation of knowledge , of explanations , is evidence .	第三 , 比較不具體 , 但對於開放式的知識、解釋來說 , 都是證據 。
now , our environment is inundated with evidence .	我們的環境充滿了證據 。
we happen to get round to testing , let's say , newton's law of gravity about 300 years ago .	比方說 , 牛頓重力定律大約在三百年前 。
but the evidence that we used to do that was falling down on every square meter of the earth for billions of years before that , and will continue to fall on for billions of years afterwards . and the same is true for all the other sciences .	但 , 我們過去做過的證據 , 已經在地球上數十億年前 , 地球上每一平方公尺上下降 , 之後會持續落下數十億年 。 其他科學也是如此 。
as far as we know , evidence to discover the most fundamental truths of all the sciences is here just for the taking on our planet .	據我們所知 , 發現所有科學最基本的真理 , 只是為了地球上取得的證據 。
our location is saturated with evidence , and also with matter and energy .	我們的所在地 , 有證據 , 也有物質和能量 。
out in intergalactic space , those three prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge are at their lowest possible supply .	在星系間的空間中 , 這三種為開放式知識創造而設立的設備 , 是他們最低的可能供給 。
as i said , it's empty ; it's cold ; and it's dark out there . or is it ?	如我所說 , 它是空的 , 它是冷的 , 它是暗的 。 還是嗎 ?
now actually , that's just another parochial misconception .	事實上 , 這只是另一個狹隘的誤解 。
because imagine a cube out there in intergalactic space , the same size as our home , the solar system . now that cube is very empty by human standards , but that still means that it contains over a million tons of matter .	想像一下 , 在星系間的空間裡有一個立方體 , 跟我們家一樣大 , 太陽系 。 現在 , 立方體是非常空的 , 但這仍然意味著它含有超過一百萬噸的物質 。
and a million tons is enough to make , say , a selfcontained space station , on which there's a colony of scientists that are devoted to creating an openended stream of knowledge , and so on .	一百萬噸的土地足以製造一個自給自足的太空站 , 上面有一群科學家 , 致力於創造一個開放式的知識流 , 諸如此類 。
now , it's way beyond present technology to even gather the hydrogen from intergalactic space and form it into other elements and so on .	現在 , 除了現代科技之外 , 還能從星系間空間收集氫氣 , 形成其他元素等等 。
but the thing is , in a comprehensible universe , if something isn't forbidden by the laws of physics , then what could possibly prevent us from doing it , other than knowing how ?	但 , 重點是 , 在一個完整的宇宙中 , 如果某樣東西不被物理定律禁止 , 那麼 , 什麼能阻止我們去做 , 除非知道怎麼做 ?
in other words , it's a matter of knowledge , not resources .	換句話說 , 它是知識的問題 , 而不是資源 。
and the same well , if we could do that we'd automatically have an energy supply , because the transmutation would be a fusion reactor and evidence ?	同樣地 , 如果我們能自動做到 , 我們會有能源供給 , 因為交通運輸會是核融合反應器和證據 ?
well , again , it's dark out there to human senses . but all you've got to do is take a telescope , even one of presentday design , look out and you'll see the same galaxies as we do from here .	嗯 , 同樣的 , 這對人類的感官是暗的 。 但你只需要用望遠鏡 , 即使是現今的設計 , 向外看 , 你會看到相同的銀河系 , 就像我們從這裡看到的一樣 。
and with a more powerful telescope , you'll be able to see stars , and planets .	有了更強大的望遠鏡 , 你可以看見恆星 , 行星 。
in those galaxies , you'll be able to do astrophysics , and learn the laws of physics .	在這些星系中 , 你可以做天體物理學 , 學習物理定律 。
and locally there you could build particle accelerators , and learn elementary particle physics , and chemistry , and so on .	你可以在當地建立粒子加速器 , 學習基本粒子物理學 , 化學等等 。
probably the hardest science to do would be biology field trips because it would take several hundred million years to get to the nearest lifebearing planet and back .	可能最困難的科學會是生物領域的旅程 , 因為要花上數億年才能到達最近的生物居住的星球 。
but i have to tell you and sorry , richard but i never did like biology field trips much , and i think we can just about make do with one every few hundred million years .	但是我必須告訴你們 , 抱歉 , 理查 , 但我從來沒有像生物實地之旅一樣 , 我想我們每隔幾億年就能完成一個 。
so in fact , intergalactic space does contain all the prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge . any such cube , anywhere in the universe , could become the same kind of hub that we are , if the knowledge of how to do so were present there .	事實上 , 星系間的空間包含了所有開放式知識的前提 。 任何這樣的立方體 , 在宇宙中的任何一個地方 , 都可能變成跟我們一樣的樞紐 , 如果該怎麼做的話 。
so we're not in a uniquely hospitable place .	所以 , 我們不在一個獨特的安居處 。
if intergalactic space is capable of creating an openended stream of explanations , then so is almost every other environment . so is the earth . so is a polluted earth .	如果星系空間能夠創造出一個開放的解釋流 , 那麼幾乎所有其他的環境都一樣 。 地球也是污染的地球 。
and the limiting factor , there and here , is not resources , because they're plentiful , but knowledge , which is scarce .	而有限的因素 , 在這裡和這裡 , 並不是資源 , 因為它們很豐富 , 但知識 , 很稀少 。
now this cosmic knowledgebased view may and i think ought to make us feel very special . but it should also make us feel vulnerable , because it means that without the specific knowledge that's needed to survive the ongoing challenges of the universe , we won't survive them .	這種以知識為基礎的觀點 , 我認為應該讓我們覺得很特別 。 但它也應該讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為它意味著 , 若沒有必要的特定知識 , 能夠存活在宇宙的挑戰中 , 我們就不會存活下來 。
all it takes is for a supernova to go off a few light years away , and we'll all be dead !	只需要一個超新星 , 才能在幾年後離開 , 我們都會死去 !
martin rees has recently written a book about our vulnerability to all sorts of things , from astrophysics , to scientific experiments gone wrong , and most importantly to terrorism with weapons of mass destruction .	馬丁.雷斯最近寫了一本關於我們脆弱的書 , 從天體物理 , 到科學實驗都出錯了 , 最重要的是要用大規模毀滅性的武器來恐怖主義 。
and he thinks that civilization has only a 50 percent chance of surviving this century .	他認為文明只有50%的機會能在這個世紀生存 。
i think he's going to talk about that later in the conference .	我想他等一下會議上會談到這件事 。
now i don't think that probability is the right category to discuss this issue in .	我不認為機率是正確的分類來討論這個議題 。
but i do agree with him about this . we can survive , and we can fail to survive .	但我同意他這件事 , 我們可以存活下來 , 我們無法存活下來 。
but it depends not on chance , but on whether we create the relevant knowledge in time .	但這不取決於偶然 , 而是依據我們是否創造有關時間的知識 。
the danger is not at all unprecedented . species go extinct all the time .	危險完全不是史無前例的物種會一直滅絕
civilizations end . the overwhelming majority of all species and all civilizations that have ever existed are now history .	文明終止了 。 絕大多數的物種和文明 , 都是歷史 。
and if we want to be the exception to that , then logically our only hope is to make use of the one feature that distinguishes our species , and our civilization , from all the others namely , our special relationship with the laws of physics , our ability to create new explanations , new knowledge to be a hub of existence .	如果我們想成為例外 , 那麼我們唯一的希望就是利用一種區別我們這個物種的特徵 , 我們的文明 , 和其他物種的特徵 , 也就是 , 我們與物理定律的特殊關係 , 我們創造新的解釋能力 , 新的知識成為存在的中心 。
so let me now apply this to a current controversy , not because i want to advocate any particular solution , but just to illustrate the kind of thing i mean .	現在 , 讓我把這個應用到目前的爭議上 , 不是因為我想要提倡任何特定的解決方案 , 只是為了說明我所說的 。
and the controversy is global warming .	爭議是全球暖化 。
now , i'm a physicist , but i'm not the right kind of physicist . in regard to global warming , i'm just a layman . and the rational thing for a layman to do is to take seriously the prevailing scientific theory . and according to that theory , it's already too late to avoid a disaster .	我是物理學家 , 但根據這個理論 , 我不是一個正確的物理學家 。 在全球暖化的方面 , 我只是一個拉曼 。 一個拉曼人要做的理性是認真看待科學理論的開端 。 根據這個理論 , 已經太遲了 , 已經無法避免災難 。
because if it's true that our best option at the moment is to prevent co2 emissions with something like the kyoto protocol , with its constraints on economic activity and its enormous cost of hundreds of billions of dollars or whatever it is , then that is already a disaster by any reasonable measure .	因為 , 如果我們現在最好的選擇是阻止二氧化碳排放 , 例如京都議定書 , 其經濟活動和它極大的成本 , 成千上萬美元 , 不論是什麼 , 那就已經是個災難了 。
and the actions that are advocated are not even purported to solve the problem , merely to postpone it by a little . so it's already too late to avoid it , and it probably has been too late to avoid it ever since before anyone realized the danger .	倡導者的行動 , 甚至都沒有在意去解決這個問題 , 只是稍微延後它 。 所以 , 已經太遲了 , 以致於在任何人意識到危險之前 , 已經太遲了 。
it was probably already too late in the 1970s , when the best available scientific theory was telling us that industrial emissions were about to precipitate a new ice age in which billions would die .	可能已經太晚了 , 在1970年代 , 最好的科學理論告訴我們工業排放即將在數十億的時代中滅亡 。
now the lesson of that seems clear to me , and i don't know why it isn't informing public debate .	這教訓對我來說很清楚 , 我不知道為什麼它沒有公開辯論 。
it is that we can't always know . when we know of an impending disaster , and how to solve it at a cost less than the cost of the disaster itself , then there's not going to be much argument , really .	就是說 , 我們不能永遠知道 。 當我們知道即將發生的災難 , 以及如何在災難本身的成本下解決它 , 那就不會有太多的爭論了 。
but no precautions , and no precautionary principle , can avoid problems that we do not yet foresee .	但沒有預防措施 , 也沒有預防原則 , 可以避免我們尚未預料到的問題 。
hence , we need a stance of problemfixing , not just problemavoidance .	因此 , 我們需要解決問題的立場 , 不僅僅是麻煩 。
and it's true that an ounce of prevention equals a pound of cure , but that's only if we know what to prevent .	的確 , 一連串預防等於一磅解藥 , 但只有我們知道預防什麼 。
if you've been punched on the nose , then the science of medicine does not consist of teaching you how to avoid punches .	如果你在鼻子上打過鼻子 , 那麼醫學的科學並沒有教導你如何避免打孔 。
if medical science stopped seeking cures and concentrated on prevention only , then it would achieve very little of either .	如果醫學不再尋求治療方法 , 只專注在預防上 , 那它也無法達成 。
the world is buzzing at the moment with plans to force reductions in gas emissions at all costs .	目前世界正在緩和計劃 , 將氣體排放減量 , 全部成本都減少 。
it ought to be buzzing with plans to reduce the temperature , and with plans to live at the higher temperature and not at all costs , but efficiently and cheaply . and some such plans exist , things like swarms of mirrors in space to deflect the sunlight away , and encouraging aquatic organisms to eat more carbon dioxide .	它應該要用計畫來降低溫度 , 且計畫要在更高的溫度上生活 , 而不是任何成本 , 而是有效率且便宜 。 有些計畫存在 , 像是在太空中的鏡子 , 將太陽光轉移開 , 鼓勵水產有機體來吃更多的二氧化碳 。
at the moment , these things are fringe research .	目前 , 這些東西是邊緣研究 。
they're not central to the human effort to face this problem , or problems in general .	它們不是人類努力要面對這個問題的核心 , 或一般的問題 。
and with problems that we are not aware of yet , the ability to put right not the sheer good luck of avoiding indefinitely is our only hope , not just of solving problems , but of survival .	有了我們還沒意識到的問題 , 我們有能力不把正確的運氣當成無限期的避免運氣 , 不只是我們唯一的希望 , 不只是解決問題 , 而是生存 。
so take two stone tablets , and carve on them .	用兩塊石板 , 雕刻在上面 。
on one of them , carve: " problems are soluble . "	其中之一 , 卡夫: 「 問題是難以解決的 。 」
and on the other one carve: " problems are inevitable . "	另一張地毯則是: 「 問題是無可避免的 。 」
how can a struggling country break out of poverty if it's trapped in a system of bad rules ? economist paul romer unveils a bold idea: " charter cities , " cityscale administrative zones governed by a coalition of nations .	如果被困在不好的規則系統中 , 一個掙扎的國家要如何脫離貧窮 ? 經濟學家保羅默提出了一個大膽的想法: 「 查特斯卡爾城市 , 市區由國家聯盟統治 。
business , culture , economics , global issues , politics	商業、文化、經濟、全球議題、政治、政治、
paul romer's radical idea: charter cities	paulromer的想法是極端的:城市特區城市 。
take a look at this picture .	看看這張照片 。
it poses a very fascinating puzzle for us .	它為我們帶來了一個非常吸引人的謎題 。
these african students are doing their homework under streetlights at the airport in the capital city because they don't have any electricity at home .	這些非洲學生在首都機場的路燈下做功課 , 因為他們家裡沒有電 。
now , i haven't met these particular students , but i've met students like them .	我還沒見過這些特別的學生 , 但我見過像他們一樣的學生 。
let's just pick one for example , the one in the green shirt .	舉個例子 , 綠色襯衫中的一個 。
let's give him a name , too: nelson .	讓我們給他一個名字:nelson 。
i'll bet nelson has a cellphone .	我打賭nelson有一個手機 。
so here is the puzzle .	這就是謎題 。
why is it that nelson has access to a cuttingedge technology , like the cellphone , but doesn't have access to a 100yearold technology for generating electric light in the home ?	為什麼nelson能取得尖端科技 , 如手機 , 但無法取得一百歲的科技 , 讓家裡產生電燈 ?
now , in a word , the answer is " rules . "	換句話說 , 答案是 「 規則 」 。
bad rules can prevent the kind of winwin solution that's available when people can bring new technologies in and make them available to someone like nelson .	不好的規則可以防止雙贏的解決方案 , 當人們能把新科技帶進來 , 讓他們可以用到像尼爾森這樣的人身上 。
what kinds of rules ?	什麼樣的規則 ?
the electric company in this nation operates under a rule , which says that it has to sell electricity at a very low , subsidized price in fact , a price that is so low it loses money on every unit that it sells .	這個國家的電力公司在一個規則下運作 , 它說它必須以非常低、補貼的價格來銷售電力 , 事實上 , 一個價格低到它銷售的每一單位都要損錢 。
so it has neither the resources , nor the incentives , to hook up many other users .	所以它既不是資源 , 也不是獎勵 , 連接其他的使用者 。
the president wanted to change this rule .	總統想要改變這個規則 。
he's seen that it's possible to have a different set of rules , rules where businesses earn a small profit , so they have an incentive to sign up more customers .	他看到 , 有可能有不同的規則 , 企業賺取小額利潤的規則 , 所以他們有獎勵要簽更多客戶 。
that's the kind of rules that the cellphone company that nelson purchases his telephony from operates under .	這類規則是nelson購買的手機公司 , 用他的電話來運作 。
the president has seen how those rules worked well .	總統知道這些規則是如何運作的 。
so he tried to change the rules for pricing on electricity , but ran into a firestorm of protest from businesses and consumers who wanted to preserve the existing subsidized rates .	所以他試著改變用電價制定的規則 , 但跑到商業和消費者的激烈抗議中 , 他們想要保存現有的補貼率 。
so he was stuck with rules that prevented him from letting the winwin solution help his country .	所以他陷入困境的規則 , 阻止他讓雙贏解決方案來協助他的國家 。
and nelson is stuck studying under the streetlights .	nelson被困在街燈下學習 。
the real challenge then , is to try to figure out how we can change rules .	真正的挑戰是要試著找出如何改變規則 。
are there some rules we can develop for changing rules ?	我們是否能發展出一些規則來改變規則 ?
i want to argue that there is a general abstract insight that we can make practical , which is that , if we can give more choices to people , and more choices to leaders who , in many countries , are also people .	我想說的是 , 我們有一項普遍抽象的見解 , 那就是 , 如果我們能提供更多的選擇給人民 , 以及在許多國家 , 領導者更多的選擇 , 也是人 。
but , it's useful to present the opposition between these two .	但這兩者之間的反對是有用的 。
because the kind of choice you might want to give to a leader , a choice like giving the president the choice to raise prices on electricity , takes away a choice that people in the economy want .	因為你可能想要給領導人的那種選擇 , 例如給總統用電價提高總統的選擇 , 消除經濟想要的人的選擇 。
they want the choice to be able to continue consuming subsidized electric power .	他們希望選擇繼續消耗補貼的電力 。
so if you give just to one side or the other , you'll have tension or friction .	所以如果你只給一邊或另一邊 , 你就會有張力或摩擦力 。
but if we can find ways to give more choices to both , that will give us a set of rules for changing rules that get us out of traps .	但如果我們能找到讓兩者更多選擇的方法 , 那就能給我們一組改變規則的規則 , 來讓我們擺脫陷阱 。
now , nelson also has access to the internet .	nelson也能上網 。
and he says that if you want to see the damaging effects of rules , the ways that rules can keep people in the dark , look at the pictures from nasa of the earth at night .	他說 , 如果你想看到規則的破壞效應 , 規則可以讓人們在黑暗中留下 , 看看美國太空總署在晚上看到的照片 。
in particular check out asia .	特別是亞洲 。
if you zoom in here , you can see north korea , in outline here , which is like a black hole compared to its neighbors .	如果你放大這裡 , 你可以看到北韓 , 在這裡 , 它就像是和鄰居相比的黑洞 。
now , you won't be surprised to learn that the rules in north korea keep people there in the dark .	現在 , 你不會很驚訝地發現北韓的規則讓人們處在黑暗中 。
but it is important to recognize that north korea and south korea started out with identical sets of rules in both the sense of laws and regulations , but also in the deeper senses of understandings , norms , culture , values and beliefs .	但很重要的是 , 要了解北韓和南韓開始有相同的規則 , 從法律和規範的角度來看 , 同時也從更深層的角度來看 , 理解、規範、文化、價值觀和信念 。
when they separated , they made choices that led to very divergent paths for their sets of rules .	當他們分開時 , 他們做出選擇 , 導致他們制定的規則非常不同的路徑 。
so we can change we as humans can change the rules that we use to interact with each other , for better , or for worse .	所以我們可以改變人類的規則 , 可以改變我們用來彼此互動的規則 , 做得更好 , 或更糟 。
now let's look at another region , the caribbean .	現在讓我們來看看另一個加勒比海地區 。
zoom in on haiti , in outline here .	放大海地這裡的線上
haiti is also dark , compared to its neighbor here , the dominican republic , which has about the same number of residents .	海地也是黑暗的 , 相較於它的鄰居 , 多明尼加共和國 , 大約有相同的居民數量 。
both of these countries are dark compared to puerto rico , which has half as many residents as either haiti or the dominican republic .	這兩個國家相較於波多黎各 , 那裡有一半的居民是海地或多明尼加共和國 。
what haiti warns us is that rules can be bad because governments are weak .	海地警告我們 , 規則可能很糟 , 因為政府很弱 。
it's not just that the rules are bad because the government is too strong and oppressive , as in north korea .	不只是規則糟糕 , 因為政府實在太強壯、壓迫 , 和北韓一樣 。
so that if we want to create environments with good rules , we can't just tear down .	所以如果我們想用良好的規則來創造環境 , 我們就不能只撕裂了 。
we've got to find ways to build up , as well .	我們也得找到方法來建立 。
now , china dramatically demonstrates both the potential and the challenges of working with rules .	現在 , 中國大大展現了與規則合作的潛力和挑戰 。
back in the beginning of the data presented in this chart , china was the world's hightechnology leader .	在這張圖表中 , 中國是世界上高科技領導人 。
chinese had pioneered technologies like steel , printing , gunpowder .	中國的先驅技術 , 像是鋼、印刷、火藥 。
but the chinese never adopted , at least in that period , effective rules for encouraging the spread of those ideas a profit motive that could have encouraged the spread .	但中國人從來沒有採用過 , 至少在那個時期 , 有效的規則 , 鼓勵這些想法散播出去 , 一種利潤的動機 , 可以鼓勵散播出去 。
and they soon adopted rules which slowed down innovation and cut china off from the rest of the world .	他們很快就採用了規則 , 減緩了創新 , 把中國從世界各地移除 。
so as other countries in the world innovated , in the sense both of developing newer technologies , but also developing newer rules , the chinese were cut off from those advances .	所以 , 世界上其他國家創新了 , 兩者都在發展更新科技 , 同時發展更新規則 , 中國的發展已經脫離了那些進步 。
income there stayed stagnant , as it zoomed ahead in the rest of the world .	那裡的收入一直停滯不前 , 因為它在世界其他地方被放大了 。
this next chart looks at more recent data .	下一張圖表比較近期的數據 。
it plots income , average income in china as a percentage of average income in the united states .	它描繪了中國平均收入的比例 , 美國平均收入的比例 。
in the '50s and '60s you can see that it was hovering at about three percent .	在50和60年代 , 各位可以看到 , 大約有3%的人在住家 。
but then in the late '70s something changed .	但到了70年代末期 , 事情改變了 。
growth took off in china . the chinese started catching up very quickly with the united states .	中國的經濟開始起飛 , 中國開始迅速的趕上美國 。
if you go back to the map at night , you can get a clue to the process that lead to the dramatic change in rules in china .	如果你晚上回到地圖 , 就能得到一個線索 , 讓中國的規則大幅改變 。
the brightest spot in china , which you can see on the edge of the outline here , is hong kong .	中國最明亮的位置 , 如你所看到的 , 就是香港 。
hong kong was a small bit of china that , for most of the 20th century , operated under a very different set of rules than the rest of mainland china rules that were copied from working market economies of the time , and administered by the british .	香港是中國的一小部分 , 在20世紀大部分的時候 , 經營的規則和當時其他主要主要的中國規則截然不同 , 由英國管理 。
in the 1950s , hong kong was a place where millions of people could go , from the mainland , to start in jobs like sewing shirts , making toys .	在1950年代 , 香港是個地方 , 那裡有數百萬人可以從大陸開始 , 開始工作 , 比如縫衣、製作玩具 。
but , to get on a process of increasing income , increasing skills led to very rapid growth there .	但 , 為了達成增加收入的過程 , 增加技能 , 導致在那裡非常快速的成長 。
hong kong was also the model which leaders like deng xiaoping could copy , when they decided to move all of the mainland towards the market model .	香港也是個典範 , 領導人 , 例如香港 , 可以複製 , 當他們決定要把所有的大陸都移到市場模式上 。
but deng xiaoping instinctively understood the importance of offering choices to his people .	但鄧小平直覺地了解到提供他人民選擇的重要性 。
so instead of forcing everyone in china to shift immediately to the market model , they proceeded by creating some special zones that could do , in a sense , what britain did: make the opportunity to go work with the market rules available to the people who wanted to opt in there .	所以 , 與其強迫每個中國人立即轉移到市場模式 , 他們的做法是創造出一些特殊的區域 , 在某種程度上 , 英國所做的是:讓機會去做市場規則 , 讓那些想要選擇的人可以選擇 。
so they created four special economic zones around hong kong: zones where chinese could come and work , and cities grew up very rapidly there ; also zones where foreign firms could come in and make things .	所以他們在香港附近創建了四個特殊的經濟區 , 中國人可以來工作 , 城市很快就在那裡成長 ; 還有一些區域 , 外國公司可以進來製造東西 。
one of the zones next to hong kong has a city called shenzhen .	香港旁邊的一個區域 , 有一個叫做 「 深圳 」 的城市 。
in that city there is a taiwanese firm that made the iphone that many of you have , and they made it with labor from chinese who moved there to shenzhen .	在那個城市裡有一間台台灣公司 , 製造了iphone , 在座很多人都有 , 他們用中國人的勞工來做 , 搬到深圳 。
so after the four special zones , there were 14 coastal cites that were open in the same sense , and eventually demonstrated successes in these places that people could opt in to , that they flocked to because of the advantages they offered .	所以在四個特區之後 , 有14個沿海地區的空地 , 最終在這些地方展現了成功 , 讓人們可以選擇進去 , 因為他們提供的優勢 。
demonstrated successes there led to a consensus for a move toward the market model for the entire economy .	在那裡證明了成功 , 導致了共識 , 朝向整個經濟的市場模式前進 。
now the chinese example shows us several points .	中國的例子顯示了幾點 。
one is: preserve choices for people .	第一:保存人們的選擇 。
two: operate on the right scale .	第二:在正確的規模上運作 。
if you try to change the rules in a village , you could do that , but a village would be too small to get the kinds of benefits you can get if you have millions of people all working under good rules .	如果你試著改變村落的規則 , 你可以這樣做 , 但村落太小了 , 如果你有數百萬人在良好規則下工作 , 就會得到一些好處 。
on the other hand , the nation is too big .	另一方面 , 國家太大了 。
if you try to change the rules in the nation , you can't give some people a chance to hold back , see how things turn out , and let others zoom ahead and try the new rules .	如果你試著改變國家的規則 , 你就不能給一些人回顧 , 看看事情是怎麼發生的 , 讓其他人放大 , 嘗試新規則 。
but cities give you this opportunity to create new places , with new rules that people can opt in to .	但城市給了你機會 , 創造新的地方 , 讓人們可以選擇的新規則 。
and they're large enough to get all of the benefits that we can have when millions of us work together under good rules .	它們夠大 , 足以得到我們所能擁有的所有利益 , 只要有數百萬人在良好的規則下合作 。
so the proposal is that we conceive of something called a charter city .	所以 , 提議是 , 我們構想了一個叫做 「 特許城市 」 的概念 。
we start with a charter that specifies all the rules required to attract the people who we'll need to build the city .	我們從一個特定規則開始 , 來吸引我們所需要的所有規則 , 來吸引我們建造城市的人們 。
we'll need to attract the investors who will build out the infrastructure the power system , the roads , the port , the airport , the buildings .	我們需要吸引投資者 , 他們會建立基礎建設──電力系統、道路、港口、機場、建築 。
you'll need to attract firms , who will come hire the people who move there first .	你需要吸引公司 , 他們會僱用先搬到那裡的人 。
and you'll need to attract families , the residents who will come and live there permanently , raise their children , get an education for their children , and get their first job .	你需要吸引家庭 , 那些會來到那裡的居民 , 永久地養育他們的孩子 , 為他們的孩子接受教育 , 為他們的第一份工作 。
with that charter , people will move there .	有了這一章 , 人們會搬到那裡 。
the city can be built .	城市可以被建造出來 。
and we can scale this model .	我們可以擴大這個模型 。
we can go do it over and over again .	我們可以一次又一次地做 。
to make it work , we need good rules . we've already discussed that .	要成功 , 我們需要好的規則 。 我們已經討論過了 。
those are captured in the charter .	那些被記錄在章節裡 。
we also need the choices for people .	我們也需要人們的選擇 。
that's really built into the model if we allow for the possibility of building cities on uninhabited land .	如果我們允許在未居住的土地上建造城市的可能性 。
you start from uninhabited territory .	從未居住的領土開始 。
people can come live under the new charter , but no one is forced to live under it .	人們可以活在新的章節底下 , 但沒有人被迫活在它下面 。
the final thing we need are choices for leaders .	最後 , 我們需要的是領導者的選擇 。
and , to achieve the kind of choices we want for leaders we need to allow for the potential for partnerships between nations: cases where nations work together , in effect , de facto , the way china and britain worked together to build , first a little enclave of the market model , and then scale it throughout china .	為了達成我們想要的選擇 , 我們需要讓各國之間合作的可能性:國家合作的情況 , 實際上 , 中國和英國合作的方式 , 首先要加強市場模式 , 然後擴展到整個中國 。
in a sense , britain , inadvertently , through its actions in hong kong , did more to reduce world poverty than all the aid programs that we've undertaken in the last century .	在某種程度上 , 英國 , 不經意地透過香港的行動 , 減少世界貧窮 , 比上個世紀我們所經歷的援助計畫還要多 。
so if we allow for these kind of partnerships to replicate this again , we can get those kinds of benefits scaled throughout the world .	所以如果我們允許這類合作關係再次複製 , 我們就能讓全世界的規模都受惠 。
in some cases this will involve a delegation of responsibility , a delegation of control from one country to another to take over certain kinds of administrative responsibilities .	在某些情況下 , 這會涉及到負責任的程度 , 從一個國家的控制權 , 到另一個國家 , 來掌管某些行政責任 。
now , when i say that , some of you are starting to think , " well , is this just bringing back colonialism ? "	現在 , 當我這麼說的時候 , 有些人開始想: 「 嗯 , 這只是帶來殖民主義嗎 ? 」
it's not . but it's important to recognize that the kind of emotions that come up when we start to think about these things , can get in the way , can make us pull back , can shut down our ability , and our interest in trying to explore new ideas .	不是的 。 但很重要的是要了解當我們開始思考這些事情時會產生的那種情感 , 能讓我們退一步 , 能夠關閉我們的能力 , 以及我們想要探索新點子的興趣 。
why is this not like colonialism ?	為什麼不像殖民主義 ?
the thing that was bad about colonialism , and the thing which is residually bad in some of our aid programs , is that it involved elements of coercion and condescension .	殖民主義是不好的 , 而我們一些援助計畫中 , 反而是很糟糕的 , 就是它涉及了合作和欺騙的元素 。
this model is all about choices , both for leaders and for the people who will live in these new places .	這個模式是關於選擇的 , 無論是領導者或是住在這些新地方的人 。
and , choice is the antidote to coercion and condescension .	選擇是對抗合作和避孕的解藥
so let's talk about how this could play out in practice .	咱們來談談如何在實踐中演奏 。
let's take a particular leader , raul castro , who is the leader of cuba .	我們拿一個特定的領導人raulcastro , 他是古巴的領導人 。
it must have occurred to castro that he has the chance to do for cuba what deng xiaoping did for china , but he doesn't have a hong kong there on the island in cuba .	卡斯楚一定有機會為古巴做古巴 , 讓他有機會為中國做安寧 , 但他在古巴島上沒有香港 。
he does , though , have a little bit of light down in the south that has a very special status .	然而 , 他在南方有一點點光 , 上面有非常特殊的地位 。
there is a zone there , around guantanamo bay , where a treaty gives the united states administrative responsibility for a piece of land that's about twice the size of manhattan .	那裡有一區 , 位在南阿莫灣 , 在那裡 , 條約給美國政府負責一塊土地 , 大約是曼哈頓的兩倍大 。
castro goes to the prime minister of canada and says , " look , the yankees have a terrible pr problem .	卡斯楚去了加拿大總理 , 說: 「 看 , 雅諾斯有個可怕的pr問題 。
they want to get out .	他們想要出去 。
why don't you , canada , take over ?	為什麼你不 , 加拿大 , 拿過去 ?
build run a special administrative zone .	建造一個特殊的行政區 。
allow a new city to be built up there .	讓新城市在上面建造 。
allow many people to come in .	讓許多人進來 。
let us have a hong kong nearby .	讓我們有個香港附近 。
some of my citizens will move into that city as well .	我的一些市民也會搬進那個城市 。
others will hold back . but this will be the gateway that will connect the modern economy and the modern world to my country . "	其他人會回來 。 但這將會是通往現代經濟和現代世界的通道 。 」
now , where else might this model be tried ?	現在 , 這個模型還在哪裡試過呢 ?
well , africa . i've talked with leaders in africa .	嗯 , 非洲 。 我和非洲的領導人談過 。
many of them totally get the notion of a special zone that people can opt into as a rule .	許多人完全得到一個特區的概念 , 讓人們可以選擇成為一個規則 。
it's a rule for changing rules .	它是改變規則的規則 。
it's a way to create new rules , and let people optin without coercion , and the opposition that coercion can force .	它是一種創造新規則的方式 , 讓人們不需要強迫 , 反對 。
they also totally get the idea that in some instances they can make more credible promises to longterm investors the kind of investors who will come build the port , build the roads , in a new city they can make more credible promises if they do it along with a partner nation .	他們也完全了解 , 在某些情況下 , 他們可以對長期投資者做出更可靠的承諾 , 這種投資者會來到港口 , 建造道路 , 在新的城市裡 , 他們能做出更可靠的承諾 , 只要他們和一個夥伴合作 , 就能做出更可靠的承諾 。
perhaps even in some arrangement that's a little bit like an escrow account , where you put land in the escrow account and the partner nation takes responsibility for it .	甚至在一些安排中 , 有點像是一場短跑帳戶 , 把土地放在短跑帳戶中 , 伴侶國家負起責任 。
there is also lots of land in africa where new cities could be built .	在非洲 , 也有許多土地 , 在那裡 , 新城市可以建造 。
this is a picture i took when i was flying along the coast .	這是我在海岸邊飛行時拍的照片 。
there are immense stretches of land like this land where hundreds of millions of people could live .	像這樣的土地有著巨大的延伸 , 在那裡 , 有數十億人可以住 。
now , if we generalize this and think about not just one or two charter cites , but dozens cities that will help create places for the many hundreds of millions , perhaps billions of people who will move to cities in the coming century is there enough land for them ?	現在 , 如果我們將它歸納起來 , 想想 , 不僅僅是一或二個特區居住的城市 , 還有數十億個城市 , 甚至數十億人口 , 在未來一個世紀 , 會搬到城市 , 足以為他們帶來足夠的土地 ?
well , throughout the world , if we look at the lights at night , the one thing that's misleading is that , visually , it looks like most of the world is already built out .	嗯 , 在世界各地 , 如果我們晚上看燈 , 誤導的一件事是 , 視覺上 , 世界大部分都已經被建造出來了 。
so let me show you why that's wrong .	所以 , 讓我告訴各位 , 為何這不對 。
take this representation of all of the land .	以所有土地的呈現為例 。
turn it into a square that stands for all the arable land on earth .	把它變成一個正方形 , 代表地球上所有的可耕地 。
and let these dots represent the land that's already taken up by the cities that three billion people now live in .	讓這些點代表已經被三十億人居住的城市佔據的土地 。
if you move the dots down to the bottom of the rectangle you can see that the cities for the existing three billion urban residents take up only three percent of the arable land on earth .	如果你把點移到長方形的底部 , 你可以看到 , 現有的城市中有30億的居民 , 佔地球上僅有3%的可耕土地 。
so if we wanted to build cities for another billion people , they would be dots like this .	所以如果我們想要為另外十億人建造城市 , 他們就會像這樣點點 。
we'd go from three percent of the arable land , to four percent .	我們將從百分之三的可耕地變成百分之四 。
we'd dramatically reduce the human footprint on earth by building more cities that people can move to .	我們會大幅減少地球上的人類足跡 , 藉由建造更多人可以移動的城市 。
and if these are cities governed by good rules , they can be cities where people are safe from crime , safe from disease and bad sanitation , where people have a chance to get a job .	如果這些城市被良好的規則管理 , 他們可以成為城市 , 在那裡 , 人民是安全的 , 不受疾病和公共衛生的城市 , 在那裡 , 人們有機會找到工作 。
they can get basic utilities like electricity .	他們能得到像電力這樣的基本效用 。
their kids can get an education .	他們的孩子可以接受教育 。
so what will it take to get started building the first charter cities , scaling this so we build many more ?	所以 , 要建造第一座特區城市 , 要怎麼建造它 ? 才能建造更多 ?
it would help to have a manual .	這對手冊有幫助 。
what university professors could do is write some details that might go into this manual .	大學教授能做的是寫一些細節 , 寫進這個手冊 。
you wouldn't want to let us run the cities , go out and design them .	你不想讓我們經營城市 , 去設計它們 。
you wouldn't let academics out in the wild .	你不會在野外放學術 。
but , you could set us to work thinking about questions like , suppose it isn't just canada that does the deal with raul castro .	但 , 你可以讓我們去思考像這樣的問題 , 假設不只是加拿大 , 處理拉爾卡斯特的問題 。
perhaps brazil comes in as a participant , and spain as well . and perhaps cuba wants to be one of the partners in a fourway joint venture .	也許巴西也參加了西班牙 , 也許古巴也想成為四個聯合創投的夥伴之一 。
how would we write the treaty to do that ?	我們要怎麼寫條約 ?
there is less precedent for that , but that could easily be worked out .	沒有那麼先例 , 但那很容易就成功 。
how would we finance this ?	我們該如何資助呢 ?
turns out singapore and hong kong are cities that made huge gains on the value of the land that they owned when they got started .	結果發現 , 新加坡和香港是城市 , 在他們起步時 , 他們擁有的土地價值很大 。
you could use the gains on the value of the land to pay for things like the police , the courts , but the school system and the health care system too , which make this a more attractive place to live , makes this a place where people have higher incomes which , incidentally , makes the land more valuable .	你可以利用土地上的收入來支付像警察、法庭等的收入 , 但學校系統和醫療系統 , 讓這個地方更吸引人 , 讓人們的收入更高 , 順帶一提 , 讓土地更有價值 。
so the incentives for the people helping to construct this zone and build it , and set up the basic rules , go very much in the right direction .	所以 , 那些幫助建造這個區域的人的動機 , 建立它 , 建立基本規則 , 朝向正確的方向前進 。
so there are many other details like this .	所以還有很多類似的細節 。
how could we have buildings that are low cost and affordable for people who work in a first job , assembling something like an iphone , but make those buildings energy efficient , and make sure that they are safe , so they don't fall down in an earthquake or a hurricane .	我們要如何讓低成本、負擔得起的人在第一份工作時 , 能夠組裝類似iphone的建築物 , 但能讓那些建築物有效率 , 確保它們是安全的 , 所以它們不會掉落在地震或颶風中 。
many technical details to be worked out , but those of us who are already starting to pursue these things can already tell that there is no roadblock , there's no impediment , other than a failure of imagination , that will keep us from delivering on a truly global winwin solution .	很多技術上的細節要被解決 , 但那些已經開始追求這些事的人 , 已經知道沒有障礙 , 沒有障礙 , 除了想像的失敗之外 , 其它方式 , 會讓我們無法實現真正的全球雙贏解決方案 。
let me conclude with this picture .	讓我用這張照片來總結 。
the reason we can be so well off , even though there is so many people on earth , is because of the power of ideas .	我們之所以能成功 , 是因為地球上有這麼多人 , 是因為想法的力量 。
we can share ideas with other people , and when they discover them , they share with us .	我們可以和別人分享想法 , 當他們發現他們時 , 他們會和我們分享 。
it's not like scarce objects , where sharing means we each get less .	它不像稀有物品 , 共享意味著我們每個人都能得到較少 。
when we share ideas we all get more .	當我們分享想法時 , 我們都會得到更多 。
when we think about ideas in that way , we usually think about technologies .	當我們用那樣的方式思考想法時 , 我們通常會想到科技 。
but there is another class of ideas: the rules that govern how we interact with each other ; rules like , let's have a tax system that supports a research university that gives away certain kinds of knowledge for free .	但還有另一種想法:管理我們如何互動的規則 ; 例如 , 讓我們有一個計程系統 , 來支持一項研究大學 , 免費提供某種知識 。
let's have a system where we have ownership of land that is registered in a government office , that people can pledge as collateral .	我們有一個系統 , 讓土地能登記在政府辦公室 , 人民可以承認承諾是殖民地 。
if we can keep innovating on our space of rules , and particularly innovate in the sense of coming up with rules for changing rules , so we don't get stuck with bad rules , then we can keep moving progress forward and truly make the world a better place , so that people like nelson and his friends don't have to study any longer under the streetlights . thank you .	如果我們能持續創新我們對規則的空間 , 尤其是創新 , 想出改變規則的概念 , 所以我們不會被困在不好的規則 , 那麼我們就能繼續前進 , 真正讓世界變得更美好 , 像納爾遜和他的朋友不再需要在路燈下學習 。 謝謝 。
genomics pioneer craig venter takes a break from his epic roundtheworld expedition to talk about the millions of genes his team has discovered so far in its quest to map the ocean’s biodiversity .	基因學先驅克雷格•凡特需要休息一下他的史詩般的圓環探險 , 來談談他的團隊發現的數百萬個基因 , 到目前為止 , 來繪製海洋的生物多樣性 。
dna , biosphere , biotech , entrepreneur , genetics , invention , oceans , science , technology	dna、生物圈、生物科技、企業家、基因、發明、海洋、科學、科技、科技、科技、
craig venter on dna and the sea	克萊格•凡特在dna和海上 , 和克萊格•凡特 。
at the break , i was asked by several people about my comments about the aging debate .	休息時間 , 我被幾個人問到我關於老化辯論的評論 。
and this will be my only comment on it .	這將會是我唯一的評論 。
and that is , i understand that optimists greatly outlive pessimists .	那就是 , 我了解樂觀主義者大大勝過悲觀主義者 。
what i'm going to tell you about in my 18 minutes is how we're about to switch from reading the genetic code to the first stages of beginning to write the code ourselves .	在我18分鐘內 , 我將告訴各位 , 我們將如何從基因編碼轉換到開始寫程式的第一階段 。
it's only 10 years ago this month when we published the first sequence of a freeliving organism , that of haemophilus influenzae .	直到十年前 , 我們才出版了第一組免費的有機體序列 , 也就是大象流感 。
that took a genome project from 13 years down to four months .	這個計畫花了13年到4個月的基因組計畫 。
we can now do that same genome project in the order of two to eight hours .	我們現在可以在兩到八小時內做同樣的基因組計畫 。
so in the last decade , a large number of genomes have been added: most human pathogens , a couple of plants , several insects and several mammals , including the human genome .	過去十年間 , 大量的基因組被加上:大部份的人類病原體、幾株植物、昆蟲和哺乳類 , 包括人類的基因組 。
genomics at this stage of the thinking from a little over 10 years ago was , by the end of this year , we might have between three and five genomes sequenced ; it's on the order of several hundred .	十年前 , 在這個想法的階段 , 基因組學在今年底 , 我們可能有三到五個基因序列 , 數百個 。
we just got a grant from the gordon and betty moore foundation to sequence 130 genomes this year , as a side project from environmental organisms .	今年我們剛從戈登和貝蒂摩爾基金得到了一百三十個基因組的補助 , 作為環境生物的一面 。
so the rate of reading the genetic code has changed .	所以閱讀基因密碼的速度已經改變了 。
but as we look , what's out there , we've barely scratched the surface on what is available on this planet .	但 , 正如我們所看到的 , 我們幾乎無法在這個星球上找到可用的表面 。
most people don't realize it , because they're invisible , but microbes make up about a half of the earth's biomass , whereas all animals only make up about one onethousandth of all the biomass .	大部分人都不知道 , 因為它們是看不見的 , 但微生物組成了地球生物質的一半 , 而所有的動物只佔所有生物總量的一分之一 。
and maybe it's something that people in oxford don't do very often , but if you ever make it to the sea , and you swallow a mouthful of seawater , keep in mind that each milliliter has about a million bacteria and on the order of 10 million viruses .	也許牛津的人們通常不會做的事 , 但如果你把它放到海裡 , 吞下一口海水 , 請記住每一毫升都有大約一百萬個細菌 , 和一千萬個病毒 。
less than 5 , 000 microbial species have been characterized as of two years ago , and so we decided to do something about it .	不到五千種微生物物種在兩年前被特徵了 , 所以我們決定要做點什麼 。
and we started the sorcerer ii expedition , where we were , as with great oceanographic expeditions , trying to sample the ocean every 200 miles .	我們開啟了sercer二次探險 , 當時我們正處於大海攝影探險 , 嘗試每200英哩的海洋樣本 。
we started in bermuda for our test project , then moved up to halifax , working down the u . s . east coast , the caribbean sea , the panama canal , through to the galapagos , then across the pacific , and we're in the process now of working our way across the indian ocean .	我們從百慕達開始測試 , 然後搬到哈利法克斯 , 沿著美國東岸 , 加勒比海 , 巴拿馬運河 , 穿過加拉帕戈斯 , 穿越太平洋 , 我們現在正在橫跨印度洋 。
it's very tough duty ; we're doing this on a sailing vessel , in part to help excite young people about going into science .	這非常困難 ; 我們在航海船上做這件事 , 有部分是要協助刺激年輕人進入科學領域 。
the experiments are incredibly simple .	實驗非常簡單 。
we just take seawater and we filter it , and we collect different size organisms on different filters , and then take their dna back to our lab in rockville , where we can sequence a hundred million letters of the genetic code every 24 hours .	我們只用海水過濾它 , 我們用不同的濾器收集不同的大小生物 , 然後把它們的dna帶回我們在洛克維爾的實驗室 , 每24小時就可以排列出一億個基因編碼的字母 。
and with doing this , we've made some amazing discoveries .	藉此 , 我們做了一些驚人的發現 。
for example , it was thought that the visual pigments that are in our eyes there was only one or two organisms in the environment that had these same pigments .	例如 , 認為我們眼睛裡的視覺色素只有一到兩種有機體有著同樣的色素 。
it turns out , almost every species in the upper parts of the ocean in warm parts of the world have these same photoreceptors , and use sunlight as the source of their energy and communication .	結果發現 , 幾乎所有海洋上半部的生物 , 都擁有相同的光電接收器 , 並使用陽光 , 就像它們的能量和溝通的來源 。
from one site , from one barrel of seawater , we discovered 1 . 3 million new genes and as many as 50 , 000 new species .	從一個網站 , 從一桶海水中 , 我們發現了130萬個新基因 , 和50 , 000種新物種一樣多 。
we've extended this to the air now with a grant from the sloan foundation .	我們現在將它延伸到空中 , 給sloan基金會的獎金 。
we're measuring how many viruses and bacteria all of us are breathing in and out every day , particularly on airplanes or closed auditoriums .	我們測量我們每天呼吸的病毒和細菌數量 , 特別是在飛機上或隔離室 。
we filter through some simple apparatuses ; we collect on the order of a billion microbes from just a day filtering on top of a building in new york city .	我們透過一些簡單的外表過濾 ; 我們一天從紐約市的建築物上收集了十億微生物的數量 。
and we're in the process of sequencing all that at the present time .	我們正處於當下的定序過程中 。
just on the data collection side , just where we are through the galapagos , we're finding that almost every 200 miles , we see tremendous diversity in the samples in the ocean .	就在數據收集方面 , 我們在加拉帕戈斯所在的地方 , 我們發現幾乎每200英哩 , 我們在海洋中看到巨大的多樣性 。
some of these make logical sense , in terms of different temperature gradients .	有些是合理的 , 以不同溫度的梯度來看 。
so this is a satellite photograph based on temperatures red being warm , blue being cold and we found there's a tremendous difference between the warm water samples and the cold water samples , in terms of abundant species .	這是一張衛星照片 , 以紅色溫度為基礎 , 藍色是溫暖 , 我們發現溫暖的水樣本和冷水樣本之間有很大的差異 。
the other thing that surprised us quite a bit is these photoreceptors detect different wavelengths of light , and we can predict that based on their amino acid sequence .	另外一點讓我們感到驚訝的是這些光受器偵測不同的光波長我們可以根據它們的胺基酸序列來預測
and these vary tremendously from region to region .	而這些從各個地區轉變為區域 。
maybe not surprisingly , in the deep ocean , where it's mostly blue , the photoreceptors tend to see blue light .	也許不意外地 , 在深海 , 大部分是藍色的 , 光受器通常會看見藍光 。
when there's a lot of chlorophyll around , they see a lot of green light .	當周圍有很多葉綠素時 , 它們會看到很多綠光 。
but they vary even more , possibly moving towards infrared and ultraviolet in the extremes .	但它們可能更加不同 , 在極端的紅外線和紫外線 。
just to try and get an assessment of what our gene repertoire was , we assembled all the data including all of ours thus far from the expedition , which represents more than half of all the gene data on the planet and it totaled around 29 million genes .	為了得到一個評估我們的基因複製品 , 我們把所有的資料組合起來 , 包括我們在探險的範圍之外 , 這代表了地球上所有基因資料的一半 , 總共大約兩千九百萬個基因 。
and we tried to put these into gene families to see what these discoveries are: are we just discovering new members of known families , or are we discovering new families ?	我們試著把這些資料放入基因家庭 , 看看這些發現是什麼:我們只是發現已知家庭的新成員 , 還是發現新的家庭 ?
and it turns out we have about 50 , 000 major gene families , but every new sample we take in the environment adds in a linear fashion to these new families .	結果發現 , 我們有大約五萬名主要的基因家庭 , 但我們在環境中所採集的每一種新樣本 , 都會增加給這些新家庭的線性時尚 。
so we're at the earliest stages of discovery about basic genes , components and life on this planet .	所以我們正處於這個星球上基礎基因、元件和生命的最早階段 。
when we look at the socalled evolutionary tree , we're up on the upper righthand corner with the animals .	當我們看所謂的進化樹 , 我們在右上角和動物的右上角 。
of those roughly 29 million genes , we only have around 24 , 000 in our genome .	在大約兩億九千萬個基因中 , 我們的基因體中只有大約兩萬四千個 。
and if you take all animals together , we probably share less than 30 , 000 and probably maybe a dozen or more thousand different gene families .	如果你把所有的動物集合在一起 , 我們可能有不到三萬個 , 可能有十幾個不同的基因家庭 。
i view that these genes are now not only the design components of evolution .	我覺得這些基因不僅僅是演化的設計成分 。
and we think in a genecentric view maybe going back to richard dawkins' ideas than in a genomecentric view , which are different constructs of these gene components .	我們認為在基因中心的觀點也許回到理查德•達金斯的觀點 , 遠超過基因中心的觀點 , 這些基因組成的構造不同 。
synthetic dna , the ability to synthesize dna , has changed at sort of the same pace that dna sequencing has over the last decade or two , and is getting very rapid and very cheap .	合成dna , 合成dna的能力 , 在過去十年或二十年間 , dna定序的速度和dna定序的速度差不多 , 且變得很快 , 且很便宜 。
our first thought about synthetic genomics came when we sequenced the second genome back in 1995 , and that from mycoplasma genitalium .	我們首先想到合成基因組學 , 當我們在1995年重組第二組基因組時 , 最初想到的就是墨西哥柏斯的生殖器 。
and we have really nice tshirts that say , you know , " i heart my genitalium . "	我們有很棒的t恤 , 上面寫著: 「 我愛我的生殖器 。 」
this is actually just a microorganism .	這其實只是一種微生物 。
but it has roughly 500 genes .	但它大約有500個基因 。
haemophilus had 1 , 800 genes .	嗜血桿菌有1800個基因 。
and we simply asked the question , if one species needs 800 , another 500 , is there a smaller set of genes that might comprise a minimal operating system ?	我們只想問一個問題 , 如果一個物種需要800 , 另一個500 , 是否有較小的基因組組可以組成最小的營運系統 ?
so we started doing transposon mutagenesis .	所以我們開始進行轉移 , 突變 。
transposons are just small pieces of dna that randomly insert in the genetic code .	轉換器只是隨機插入基因碼中的小片dna 。
and if they insert in the middle of the gene , they disrupt its function .	如果它們插入基因的中間 , 它們會破壞它的功能 。
so we made a map of all the genes that could take transposon insertions and we called those " nonessential genes . "	所以我們做了一張基因圖 , 可以用轉移插入的地圖 , 我們稱之為 「 正面基因 」 。
but it turns out the environment is very critical for this , and you can only define an essential or nonessential gene based on exactly what's in the environment .	但事實證明 , 環境是非常關鍵的 , 你只能根據環境到底是什麼來定義一個必要或不必要的基因 。
we also tried to take a more directly intellectual approach with the genomes of 13 related organisms , and we tried to compare all of those , to see what they had in common .	我們也試著用更直接的智力方法和13個相關的有機體基因組做比較 , 我們試著去比較它們的共通點 。
and we got these overlapping circles . and we found only 173 genes common to all 13 organisms .	我們發現這些重疊的圓圈 。 我們發現 , 只有173個基因和所有13個有機體相同 。
the pool expanded a little bit if we ignored one intracellular parasite ; it expanded even more when we looked at core sets of genes of around 310 or so .	池塘擴張一點 , 如果我們忽略一個細胞寄生蟲 , 它會擴展得更廣 , 當我們觀察核心基因的核心組合 , 大約310組 。
so we think that we can expand or contract genomes , depending on your point of view here , to maybe 300 to 400 genes from the minimal of 500 .	所以 , 我們認為我們可以擴展或收縮基因組 , 取決於你的觀點 , 至於500年最低的300到400個基因 。
the only way to prove these ideas was to construct an artificial chromosome with those genes in them , and we had to do this in a cassettebased fashion .	要證明這些想法的唯一方法 , 就是建造一個人造染色體 , 裡面有這些基因 , 我們得要用以現場為基礎的時尚來做這件事 。
we found that synthesizing accurate dna in large pieces was extremely difficult .	我們發現 , 在大片中合成精確的dna是非常困難的 。
ham smith and clyde hutchison , my colleagues on this , developed an exciting new method that allowed us to synthesize a 5 , 000base pair virus in only a twoweek period that was 100 percent accurate , in terms of its sequence and its biology .	漢姆.史密斯和clydehutchison , 我的同事開發了一個令人興奮的新方法 , 讓我們可以在兩週內合成一個五千個鹼基對病毒 , 準確度是百分之百精確的 , 以其序列和生物學來說 。
it was a quite exciting experiment when we just took the synthetic piece of dna , injected it in the bacteria and all of a sudden , that dna started driving the production of the virus particles that turned around and then killed the bacteria .	這是一個相當令人興奮的實驗 , 當我們把合成的dna注射到細菌中 , 突然間 , dna開始開著病毒粒子的生產 , 然後殺死細菌 。
this was not the first synthetic virus a polio virus had been made a year before but it was only one tenthousandth as active and it took three years to do .	這不是第一個合成病毒--一個小兒麻痺病毒在一年之前被製造出來 , 但它只有一個活躍的十三年 , 且要做三年 。
this is a cartoon of the structure of phi x 174 .	這是phix174的結構 。
this is a case where the software now builds its own hardware , and that's the notions that we have with biology .	這是一個軟體製造自己的硬體 , 那就是我們對生物學的觀念 。
people immediately jump to concerns about biological warfare , and i had recent testimony before a senate committee , and a special committee the u . s . government has set up to review this area .	人們立刻開始關心生態戰爭 , 我最近在參議院委員會前有證詞 , 美國政府設立了特殊委員會來審查這個區域 。
and i think it's important to keep reality in mind , versus what happens with people's imaginations .	我認為 , 要記住現實是很重要的 , 而不是人們的想像力會發生什麼事 。
basically , any virus that's been sequenced today that genome can be made .	基本上 , 現今的任何病毒都可以被基因組定序 。
and people immediately freak out about things about ebola or smallpox , but the dna from this organism is not infective .	人們馬上就對伊波拉或天花的事物感到害怕 , 但這種生物的dna沒有傳染性 。
so even if somebody made the smallpox genome , that dna itself would not cause infections .	所以即使有人製造了天花的基因組 , dna本身也不會造成感染 。
the real concern that security departments have is designer viruses .	安全部門真正關心的是設計師病毒 。
and there's only two countries , the u . s . and the former soviet union , that had major efforts on trying to create biological warfare agents .	只有兩個國家 , 美國和前蘇聯 , 努力創造生物武器代理人 。
if that research is truly discontinued , there should be very little activity on the knowhow to make designer viruses in the future .	如果這份研究真的被遺漏了 , 未來應該就沒有任何的知識來製造設計病毒 。
i think singlecell organisms are possible within two years .	我認為兩年內就有可能實現單細胞生物 。
and possibly eukaryotic cells , those that we have , are possible within a decade .	可能在十年內 , 那些我們擁有的真菌細胞 。
so we're now making several dozen different constructs , because we can vary the cassettes and the genes that go into this artificial chromosome .	我們現在正在製造數十種不同的構造 , 因為我們可以改變人造染色體的貓咪和基因 。
the key is , how do you put all of the others ?	關鍵在於 , 你要如何把所有其他人都放在一起 ?
we start with these fragments , and then we have a homologous recombination system that reassembles those into a chromosome .	我們從這些碎片開始 , 然後我們有一個同源重組系統 , 將它們重新組合成染色體 。
this is derived from an organism , deinococcus radiodurans , that can take three million rads of radiation and not be killed .	這是從一個有機體中衍生出來的 , 失序的無線電 , 可以用三百萬個輻射 , 而不是被殺 。
it reassembles its genome after this radiation burst in about 12 to 24 hours , after its chromosomes are literally blown apart .	在輻射爆炸後 , 它會重新組合它的基因組 , 大約12到24小時後 , 它的染色體被拆開了 。
this organism is ubiquitous on the planet , and exists perhaps now in outer space due to all our travel there .	這種有機體在地球上無所不在 , 可能是因為我們旅行到外太空的存在 。
this is a glass beaker after about half a million rads of radiation .	這是在約五十萬輻射後的玻璃貝克 。
the glass started to burn and crack , while the microbes sitting in the bottom just got happier and happier .	玻璃開始燃燒和裂縫 , 而微生物就坐在底部 , 變得更快樂、更快樂 。
here's an actual picture of what happens: the top of this shows the genome after 1 . 7 million rads of radiation .	這是一張實際發生的圖片 , 上面的圖片顯示了一百七十萬張輻射後的基因組 。
the chromosome is literally blown apart .	染色體真的分開了 。
and here's that same dna automatically reassembled 24 hours later .	同樣的dna在24小時後自動重組 。
it's truly stunning that these organisms can do that , and we probably have thousands , if not tens of thousands , of different species on this planet that are capable of doing that .	真的令人驚訝的是這些有機體能做到這一點 , 我們可能有數千種 , 如果不是數萬種 , 在這個星球上有能力做到這一點的物種 。
after these genomes are synthesized , the first step is just transplanting them into a cell without a genome .	在這些基因組被合成之後 , 第一步就是將它們移植到沒有基因組的細胞中 。
so we think synthetic cells are going to have tremendous potential , not only for understanding the basis of biology but for hopefully environmental and society issues .	因此 , 我們認為合成細胞將會有很大的潛力 , 不僅是為了了解生物學的基礎 , 還有希望環境和社會議題 。
for example , from the third organism we sequenced , methanococcus jannaschii it lives in boiling water temperatures ; its energy source is hydrogen and all its carbon comes from co2 it captures back from the environment .	例如 , 從我們排序的第三個有機體中 , 它住在沸騰的水溫下 , 它的能量來源是氫 , 它的碳來自於環境中的二氧化碳 。
so we know lots of different pathways , thousands of different organisms now that live off of co2 , and can capture that back .	所以我們知道許多不同的途徑 , 成千上萬的不同有機體從二氧化碳中存活下來 , 並捕捉到它 。
so instead of using carbon from oil for synthetic processes , we have the chance of using carbon and capturing it back from the atmosphere , converting that into biopolymers or other products .	所以 , 與其使用石油合成過程的碳 , 我們有機會使用碳 , 從大氣中捕捉回來 , 將它轉換成生物聚合物或其他產品 。
we have one organism that lives off of carbon monoxide , and we use as a reducing power to split water to produce hydrogen and oxygen .	我們有一種生物體 , 住在一氧化碳中 , 我們用它來減少水分裂 , 來產生氫和氧 。
also , there's numerous pathways that can be engineered metabolizing methane .	此外 , 有許多可以改造代謝甲烷的途徑 。
and dupont has a major program with statoil in norway to capture and convert the methane from the gas fields there into useful products .	杜邦有一個重大的計畫 , 用挪威的雕像來捕捉並把甲烷從那裡轉換成有用的產品 。
within a short while , i think there's going to be a new field called " combinatorial genomics , " because with these new synthesis capabilities , these vast gene array repertoires and the homologous recombination , we think we can design a robot to make maybe a million different chromosomes a day .	在短時間內 , 我認為將有一個新的領域叫做 「 組合基因組 」 , 因為有了這些新的合成能力 , 這些大量的基因組修復和同源的組合 , 我們認為我們可以設計一個機器人 , 一天可以製造一百萬個不同的染色體 。
and therefore , as with all biology , you get selection through screening , whether you're screening for hydrogen production , or chemical production , or just viability .	因此 , 就如同所有的生物學而言 , 你在篩選 , 不論你在篩選氫化生產 , 或化學生產 , 或單純的可行性 。
to understand the role of these genes is going to be well within reach .	要了解這些基因的角色 , 會很棒 。
we're trying to modify photosynthesis to produce hydrogen directly from sunlight .	我們試著修改光合作用 , 從陽光直接製造氫氣 。
photosynthesis is modulated by oxygen , and we have an oxygeninsensitive hydrogenase that we think will totally change this process .	光合作用被氧氣調節 , 我們有一種氧氣敏感的氫氣 , 我們認為會完全改變這個過程 。
we're also combining cellulases , the enzymes that break down complex sugars into simple sugars and fermentation in the same cell for producing ethanol .	我們也結合了細胞膜 , 分解複雜糖的酵素 , 分解成簡單糖和發酵 , 在同一個細胞中產生乙醇 。
pharmaceutical production is already under way in major laboratories using microbes .	製藥生產已經在大型實驗室使用微生物 。
the chemistry from compounds in the environment is orders of magnitude more complex than our best chemists can produce .	環境中的化合物所產生的化學物質比我們最好的化合物能產生的還要複雜 。
i think future engineered species could be the source of food , hopefully a source of energy , environmental remediation and perhaps replacing the petrochemical industry .	我認為未來的工程物種可能是食物的來源 , 希望是能源、環境復原的來源 , 也可能替換了石化產業 。
let me just close with ethical and policy studies .	讓我用倫理和政策研究來結束 。
we delayed the start of our experiments in 1999 until we completed a yearandahalf bioethical review as to whether we should try and make an artificial species .	我們在1999年延遲實驗的開端 , 直到我們完成了一年半的生物倫理審查 , 來嘗試製造人造物種 。
every major religion participated in this .	每個主要的宗教都參與其中 。
it was actually a very strange study , because the various religious leaders were using their scriptures as law books , and they couldn't find anything in them prohibiting making life , so it must be ok . the only ultimate concerns were biological warfare aspects of this , but gave us the go ahead to start these experiments for the reasons we were doing them .	這其實是個很奇怪的研究 , 因為各式各樣的宗教領袖把他們的經文當作法律書 , 他們找不到任何禁止創造生命的任何東西 , 所以這一定是可以的 。 唯一的疑慮是生物戰事方面 , 但給了我們前進的主意 , 以我們做這些實驗的原因 。
right now the sloan foundation has just funded a multiinstitutional study on this , to work out what the risk and benefits to society are , and the rules that scientific teams such as my own should be using in this area , and we're trying to set good examples as we go forward .	現在sloan基金會剛資助了多重機構的研究 , 來找出對社會的風險和益處 , 以及像我這樣的科學團隊應該要在這個領域中使用的規則 , 我們正試著設立好的例子 。
these are complex issues .	這些都是複雜的問題 。
except for the threat of bioterrorism , they're very simple issues in terms of , can we design things to produce clean energy , perhaps revolutionizing what developing countries can do and provide through various simple processes .	除了生物恐怖主義的威脅之外 , 它們是非常簡單的議題 , 我們能否設計東西來製造乾淨能源 , 或許改革開發中國家能做些什麼 , 並提供各種簡單的過程 。
psychologist philip zimbardo says happiness and success are rooted in a trait most of us disregard: the way we orient toward the past , present and future . he suggests we calibrate our outlook on time as a first step to improving our lives .	心理學家philipzimbardo說幸福和成功根深蒂固的特質:我們對過去、現在、未來的方向 。 他建議我們在未來的第一步改善我們的生活 。
brain , business , happiness , mind , psychology , science	大腦、商業、快樂、心智、心理學、科學、科學、科學、
philip zimbardo prescribes a healthy take on time	philipzimbardo開了個健康的處方 , 花了很長的時間 ,
i want to share with you some ideas about the secret power of time , in a very short time .	我想和大家分享一些關於時間的秘密力量的概念 , 在很短的時間內 。
video: all right , start the clock please . 30 seconds studio .	影片:好的 , 開始時鐘 。 三十秒鐘的工作室 。
keep it quiet please . settle down .	讓它安靜下來 , 安靜下來 。
it's about time . end sequence . take one .	時間 , 終結序列 , 一試 。
10 , nine , eight , seven , six , five , four , three , two . . .	10、9、8、7、6、4、3、2......
philip zimbardo: let's tune into the conversation of the principals in adam's temptation .	菲利普•辛巴多:咱們來談談亞當的誘惑 。
" come on adam , don't be so wishywashy . take a bite . " " i did . "	「 拜託 , 不要太小心了 。 請小心 。 」 「 我做了 。 」
" one bite , adam . don't abandon eve . "	「 一口 , 亞當 , 別拋棄eve 。 」
" i don't know , guys .	「 我不知道 , 各位 。
i don't want to get in trouble . "	我不想惹麻煩 。 」
" okay . one bite . what the hell ? "	「 好 , 一口 。 到底是什麼 ? 」
life is temptation . it's all about yielding , resisting , yes , no , now , later , impulsive , reflective , present focus and future focus .	人生是誘惑的 。 重點是產出、抗拒 , 是的 , 後來 , 衝動性、反思性、焦點 , 以及未來焦點 。
promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment .	被承諾的美德落在當下的熱情 。
of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage thank you george bush the majority , 60 percent , yielded to sexual temptations within one year .	青少女在婚前宣揚性別缺席和處女的青少年 , 感謝喬治•布希多半 , 60% , 被性誘惑所吸引 。
and most of them did so without using birth control .	他們大部分都沒有用出生控制權 。
so much for promises .	承諾太多了 。
now lets tempt fouryearolds , giving them a treat .	現在讓我們誘惑四歲的孩子 , 給他們治療 。
they can have one marshmallow now . but if they wait until the experimenter comes back , they can have two .	他們現在可以有一顆棉花糖 。 但如果他們等到實驗者回來 , 他們就可以有兩顆 。
of course it pays , if you like marshmallows , to wait .	當然 , 如果你喜歡棉花糖 , 它會支付 。
what happens is twothirds of the kids give in to temptation .	三分之二的孩子因誘惑而放棄 。
they cannot wait . the others , of course , wait .	他們不能等待 。 當然 , 其他的 , 等等 。
they resist the temptation . they delay the now for later .	他們抗拒誘惑 , 現在延遲了 。
walter mischel , my colleague at stanford , went back 14 years later , to try to discover what was different about those kids .	華特•米歇爾 , 我在史丹佛大學的同事 , 14年後 , 試圖發現那些孩子有什麼不同 。
there were enormous differences between kids who resisted and kids who yielded , in many ways .	在許多方面 , 抗拒的孩子和受益的孩子之間有很大的差異 。
the kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the sat .	那些拒絕分數250分的人 , 在座位上比較高 。
that's enormous . that's like a whole set of different iq points .	這太龐大了 。 這就像一整組不同的智商點 。
they didn't get in as much trouble . they were better students .	他們沒有惹上麻煩 , 他們是更好的學生 。
they were selfconfident and determined . and the key for me today , the key for you , is , they were futurefocused rather than presentfocused .	他們是自信且有決心的 。 今天對我而言 , 關鍵在於 , 他們是未來的 , 而不是全面性的 。
so what is time perspective ? that's what i'm going to talk about today .	所以 , 時間是什麼 ? 這就是我今天要談的 。
time perspective is the study of how individuals , all of us , divide the flow of your human experience into time zones or time categories .	時間的觀點是研究個體 , 我們所有人 , 將你的人類經驗分成時間區或時間分類 。
and you do it automatically and nonconsciously .	你自動做 , 無意識地做這件事 。
they vary between cultures , between nations , between individuals , between social classes , between education levels .	文化、國家、社會階級、教育程度之間的差異不同 。
and the problem is that they can become biased , because you learn to overuse some of them and underuse the others .	問題是 , 他們可以變得有偏見 , 因為你學會了濫用其中的一些 , 並且濫用其他的 。
what determines any decision you make ?	你做了什麼決定 ?
you make a decision on which you're going to base an action .	你做出一個決定 , 你要採取行動 。
for some people it's only about what is in the immediate situation , what other people are doing and what you're feeling .	對某些人而言 , 只有在當下的情況下 , 其他人在做什麼 , 以及你在感受什麼 。
and those people , when they make their decisions in that format we're going to call them " presentoriented , " because their focus is what is now .	那些人 , 當他們做決定時 , 我們會稱他們為 「 現狀 」 , 因為他們的焦點是現在的 。
for others , the present is irrelevant .	對其他人來說 , 現在是不相關的 。
it's always about " what is this situation like that i've experienced in the past ? "	總是在說: 「 我過去經歷過的這種情況是什麼樣子 ? 」
so that their decisions are based on past memories .	所以 , 他們的決策基於過去的記憶 。
and we're going to call those people " pastoriented , " because they focus on what was .	我們會稱這些人為 「 偽造 」 , 因為他們專注於什麼 。
for others it's not the past , it's not the present , it's only about the future .	對其他人來說 , 這不是過去 , 也不是現在 , 而是關於未來 。
their focus is always about anticipated consequences .	他們的焦點總是針對預期的結果 。
we're going to call them " futureoriented . " their focus is on what will be .	我們將稱之為 「 未來 」 。 他們的焦點是 「 未來 」 。
so , time paradox , i want to argue , the paradox of time perspective , is something that influences every decision you make , you're totally unaware of .	所以 , 時間悖論 , 我想主張時間觀點的悖論 , 是影響你所做的每一個決定 , 你完全不知道的 。
namely , the extent to which you have one of these biased time perspectives .	換句話說 , 你有這種偏見的時間觀點 。
well there is actually six of them . there are two ways to be presentoriented .	嗯 , 其實有六種方式 。 有兩種方式可以呈現出來 。
there is two ways to be pastoriented , two ways to be future .	有兩種方式可以修正 , 兩種未來的方式 。
you can focus on pastpositive , or pastnegative .	你可以把焦點放在過度積極或負面 。
you can be presenthedonistic , namely you focus on the joys of life , or presentfatalist it doesn't matter , your life is controlled .	你可以是具體的 , 也就是你把焦點放在生活的喜悅 , 或當前主義者──不重要 , 你的人生被控制著 。
you can be futureoriented , setting goals .	你可以有未來的目標 。
or you can be transcendental future: namely , life begins after death .	或者 , 你可以是超然的未來:生命起源於死亡 。
developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidly depending on the demands of the situation , that's what you've got to learn to do .	發展思維靈活度 , 讓時間觀點流暢地取決於情況的需求 , 這就是你必須學習的 。
so , very quickly , what is the optimal time profile ?	很快地 , 最佳時間檔案是什麼 ?
high on pastpositive . moderately high on future .	在過去的高度 , 在未來的高度 。
and moderate on presenthedonism .	而在現代主義上調節 。
and always low on pastnegative and presentfatalism .	總是低於負面和實在主義 。
so the optimal temporal mix is what you get from the past pastpositive gives you roots . you connect your family , identity and your self .	所以 , 最佳的顳葉混合是你從過去過去所得到的 , 給了你根 。 你連結你的家人、身分和你的自我 。
what you get from the future is wings to soar to new destinations , new challenges .	你從未來所得到的 , 是翅膀到新的目的地 , 新的挑戰 。
what you get from the present hedonism is the energy , the energy to explore yourself , places , people , sensuality .	你從現在的享樂主義得到的就是能量 , 去探索你自己 , 地方 , 人們 , 感知 。
any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives .	任何時間看過多的觀點 , 都會比正面的觀點更負面 。
what do futures sacrifice for success ?	未來如何犧牲成功 ?
they sacrifice family time . they sacrifice friend time .	他們犧牲家庭時間 , 他們犧牲朋友時間 。
they sacrifice fun time . they sacrifice personal indulgence .	他們犧牲有趣的時光 , 犧牲個人的絕緣 。
they sacrifice hobbies . and they sacrifice sleep . so it affects their health .	他們犧牲嗜好 , 犧牲睡眠 , 影響他們的健康 。
and they live for work , achievement and control .	他們為了工作、成就和控制而活著 。
i'm sure that resonates with some of the tedsters .	我相信這和一些ted人有所共鳴 。
and it resonated for me . i grew up as a poor kid in the south bronx ghetto , a sicilian family everyone lived in the past and present .	這對我有共鳴 。 我在南布朗克斯貧民區長大 , 一個西西西里家庭 , 所有人都住在過去和現在 。
i'm here as a futureoriented person who went over the top , who did all these sacrifices because teachers intervened , and made me future oriented .	我來到這裡 , 作為一個長久以來的人 , 他們做這些犧牲 , 因為老師介入 , 讓我有未來的方向 。
told me don't eat that marshmallow , because if you wait you're going to get two of them , until i learned to balance out .	告訴我不要吃那塊棉花糖 , 因為如果你等著你拿到兩顆 , 直到我學會平衡 。
i've added presenthedonism , i've added a focus on the pastpositive , so , at 76 years old , i am more energetic than ever , more productive , and i'm happier than i have ever been .	我加上了現代主義 , 我把焦點放在過去的思維上 , 所以 , 在76歲時 , 我比以往更有生產力 , 且我比以前更快樂 。
i just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems: changing the dropout rates of school kids , combating addictions , enhancing teen health , curing vets' ptsd with time metaphors getting miracle cures promoting sustainability and conservation , reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50percent drop out rate , altering appeals to suicidal terrorists , and modifying family conflicts as timezone clashes .	我只是想說 , 我們把這個應用到許多世界問題上:改變輟學率 , 結合成癮 , 增加青少年健康 , 用時間隱喻來治療創傷後壓力症候群 , 讓 「 永續 」 和 「 保育 」 , 減少身體復健 , 在那裡有50%的輟學率 , 改變了自殺恐怖份子 , 以及改變家庭衝突 。
so i want to end by saying: many of life's puzzles can be solved by understanding your time perspective and that of others .	所以我想以此作結:許多人生的謎題可以透過了解時間觀和其他人的觀點來解答 。
and the idea is so simple , so obvious , but i think the consequences are really profound .	這個想法很簡單 , 很明顯 , 但我認為後果真的很深奧 。
how many of today's headlines will matter in 100 years ? 1000 ? kirk citron's " long news " project collects stories that not only matter today , but will resonate for decades even centuries to come . at ted2010 , he highlights recent headlines with the potential to shape our future .	現今的頭條在一百年內會很重要 ? 一百年後 ? kirkcron的 「 長新聞 」 計畫收集了現今很重要的故事 , 數十年來 , 甚至會有共鳴 。 在ted2010年 , 他強調了我們未來的潛力 。
future , global issues , media , news , science	未來、全球議題、媒體、新聞、科學、科學、科學、
kirk citron: and now , the real news	kirkcron:現在 , 真正的消息是 ,
we are drowning in news .	我們在新聞中淹沒 。
reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year .	光是路透社每年就有三百五十萬個新聞 。
that's just one source .	這只是一個源頭 。
my question is: how many of those stories are actually going to matter in the long run ?	我的問題是:長期來看 , 那些故事中有多少會很重要 ?
that's the idea behind the long news .	這是長期新聞的主意 。
it's a project by the long now foundation , which was founded by tedsters including kevin kelly and stewart brand .	這個計畫是長期的基金會 , 是由tedster所創立的 , 包括凱文凱利和史都華•布蘭德 。
and what we're looking for is news stories that might still matter 50 or 100 or 10 , 000 years from now .	我們正在尋找的新聞故事 , 可能是從現在起五十到十萬年後 , 可能仍然重要 。
and when you look at the news through that filter , a lot falls by the wayside .	當你看新聞過濾器時 , 很多東西會從旁邊掉下來 。
to take the top stories from the a . p . this last year , is this going to matter in a decade ?	去年 , 為了從a.p.上述的故事 , 這會在十年內發生嗎 ?
is this going to matter in 50 or 100 years ?	這在50或100年後會發生什麼事嗎 ?
okay , that was kind of cool .	好吧 , 那有點酷 。
but the top story of this past year was the economy , and i'm just betting that , sooner or later , this particular recession is going to be old news .	但 , 過去一年的上述故事是經濟 , 我很快就打賭 , 這種衰退將會是古老的消息 。
so , what kind of stories might make a difference for the future ?	所以 , 未來有什麼樣的故事會造成什麼樣的改變 ?
well , let's take science .	嗯 , 咱們來談科學 。
someday , little robots will go through our bloodstreams fixing things .	有一天 , 小機器人會穿過我們的血液循環 。
that someday is already here if you're a mouse .	如果你是老鼠 , 某一天就在這裡 。
some recent stories: nanobees zap tumors with real bee venom ; they're sending genes into the brain ; a robot they built that can crawl through the human body .	最近有些故事:奈米蜜蜂和真實蜜蜂毒液的腫瘤 , 它們會把基因送到大腦中 ; 一個可以爬過人體的機器人 。
what about resources ? how are we going to feed nine billion people ?	那麼資源呢 ? 我們要如何餵飽九十億人 ?
we're having trouble feeding six billion today .	我們現在有六十億人在吃麻煩 。
as we heard yesterday , there's over a billion people hungry .	正如我們昨天聽到的 , 有超過十億人挨餓 。
britain will starve without genetically modified crops .	英國會餓死 , 沒有基因改造的作物 。
bill gates , fortunately , has bet a billion on [agricultural] research .	幸運的是 , 比爾蓋茲已經賭注了十億人 。
what about global politics ?	那麼全球政治呢 ?
the world's going to be very different when and if china sets the agenda , and they may .	世界將會非常不一樣 , 如果中國設定議程 , 他們可能會 。
they've overtaken the u . s . as the world's biggest car market , they've overtaken germany as the largest exporter , and they've started doing dna tests on kids to choose their careers .	他們過度推翻了美國 , 成為世界上最大的汽車市場 , 他們超越了德國 , 成為最大的出口國 , 他們開始做dna測驗 , 來選擇他們的職業 。
we're finding all kinds of ways to push back the limits of what we know .	我們發現各式各樣的方式來推動我們所知的極限 。
some recent discoveries: there's an ant colony from argentina that has now spread to every continent but antarctica ; there's a selfdirected robot scientist that's made a discovery soon , science may no longer need us , and life may no longer need us either ; a microbe wakes up after 120 , 000 years .	最近的一些發現:阿根廷有一個蟻群 , 現在已經散播到每一個大陸 , 但南極洲 ; 有一個自主導導導向的機器人科學家很快就發現了 , 科學可能不再需要我們 , 生命也可能不再需要我們了 ; 一根微生物在十二萬年後會醒來 。
it seems that with or without us , life will go on .	似乎沒有我們 , 生命會繼續下去 。
but my pick for the top long news story of this past year was this one: water found on the moon .	但 , 去年我在月球上找到了水 。
makes it a lot easier to put a colony up there .	讓這個蟻群更容易放上去 。
and if nasa doesn't do it , china might , or somebody in this room might write a big check .	如果美國太空總署沒有做到 , 中國可能會 , 或在座的某人可能會寫一份大支票 。
my point is this: in the long run , some news stories are more important than others .	我的重點是:長期來看 , 有些新聞比其他新聞更重要 。
planetary scientist carolyn porco shows images from the cassini voyage to saturn , focusing on its largest moon , titan , and on frozen enceladus , which seems to shoot jets of ice .	地球科學家卡羅琳•波科斯從卡西尼航行到土星的影像 , 專注於它最大的衛星、泰坦 , 以及佛洛茲.羅德斯 , 這似乎是冰中的噴射機 。
nasa , design , exploration , science , space , technology , universe , visualizations	美國太空總署、設計、探索、科學、太空、科技、宇宙、視覺化視覺化、視覺化 。
carolyn porco flies us to saturn	卡羅琳•波科讓我們飛到土星上 ,
in the next 18 minutes , i'm going to take you on a journey .	在接下來的18分鐘 , 我會帶各位踏上一段旅程 。
and it's a journey that you and i have been on for many years now , and it began some 50 years ago , when humans first stepped off our planet .	這趟旅程 , 各位和我已經經歷了很多年 , 大約50年前 , 人類第一次離開地球 。
and in those 50 years , not only did we literally , physically set foot on the moon , but we have dispatched robotic spacecraft to all the planets all eight of them and we have landed on asteroids , we have rendezvoused with comets , and , at this point in time , we have a spacecraft on its way to pluto , the body formerly known as a planet .	在那50年裡 , 我們不僅僅是真的在月球上設定了腳 , 我們已經把機械太空船分散到所有行星上 , 全部八個行星上 , 我們已經降落在小行星上 , 在這個時點 , 我們有了一艘太空船 , 用來冥王星 , 前人稱它為行星 。
and all of these robotic missions are part of a bigger human journey: a voyage to understand something , to get a sense of our cosmic place , to understand something of our origins , and how earth , our planet , and we , living on it , came to be .	所有這些機械任務都是人類旅程的一部分:一趟航行 , 去了解某樣東西 , 去了解我們的宇宙 , 去了解我們的起源 , 以及地球 , 我們的地球 , 以及我們的生活 , 來臨 。
and of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this , there's saturn . and we have been to saturn before we visited saturn in the early 1980s but our investigations of saturn have become far more indepth in detail since the cassini spacecraft , traveling across interplanetary space for seven years , glided into orbit around saturn in the summer of 2004 , and became at that point the farthest robotic outpost that humanity had ever established around the sun .	在太陽系中的所有地方 , 我們可能會去尋找像這樣的問題的答案 , 這是土星 。 我們去過土星 , 在1980年代早期 , 探訪土星時 , 我們調查土星的細節已經變得更加深刻 , 因為卡西尼號太空船 , 在2004年夏天 , 穿越了星際空間 , 在2004年的夏天 , 環繞土星軌道 , 成為了人類最遙遠的機器人 。
now , the saturn system is a rich planetary system .	土星系統是很豐富的行星系統 。
it offers mystery , scientific insight and obviously splendor beyond compare , and the investigation of this system has enormous cosmic reach .	它提供了神秘、科學的洞見 , 顯然擴張超越了這個系統的調查 , 已經達到了巨大的宇宙範圍 。
in fact , just studying the rings alone , we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies .	事實上 , 光是研究光環 , 我們就知道很多恆星和氣體的圓盤 , 我們稱之為 「 螺旋星系 」 。
and here's a beautiful picture of the andromeda nebula , which is our closest , largest spiral galaxy to the milky way .	這裡有一張很漂亮的照片 , 這張照片是我們最接近的銀河系 , 最大的螺旋星系 。
and then , here's a beautiful composite of the whirlpool galaxy , taken by the hubble space telescope .	然後 , 這裡有一個美麗的旋pool銀河系是由哈伯太空望遠鏡所組成 。
so the journey back to saturn is really part of and is also a metaphor for a much larger human voyage to understand the interconnectedness of everything around us , and also how humans fit into that picture .	所以 , 回到土星的旅程其實是一部分 , 也是人類旅程的比喻 , 來了解我們身邊的事物之間的關聯性 , 以及人類如何融入這張圖片 。
and it pains me that i can't tell you all that we have learned with cassini .	讓我痛苦的是 , 我無法告訴你們 , 我們在卡西尼學到的一切 。
i can't show you all the beautiful pictures that we've taken in the last two and a half years , because i simply don't have the time .	我無法給你們看我們過去兩年半所拍攝的美麗照片 , 因為我沒有時間 。
so i'm going to concentrate on two of the most exciting stories that have emerged out of this major exploratory expedition that we are conducting around saturn , and have been for the past two and a half years .	所以我要專注在這個重大的探險探險旅程中 , 其中兩個最令人興奮的故事 , 就是我們正在進行土星旅行的旅程 , 過去兩年半 , 一直都是如此 。
saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons .	土星是由非常大且多樣化的衛星組成的 。
they range in size from a few kilometers across to as big across as the u . s .	它們的尺寸從幾公里長 , 大到和美國一樣大 。
most of the beautiful pictures we've taken of saturn , in fact , show saturn in accompaniment with some of its moons . here's saturn with dione , and then , here's saturn showing the rings edgeon , showing you just how vertically thin they are , with the moon enceladus .	我們拍攝土星的大部分美麗的照片 , 事實上 , 土星與它的一些衛星相伴 。 這是土星和鑽石土星 , 接著 , 這是土星展示了地表的環狀壁虎 , 展示了它們的垂直稀薄度 , 和土衛二 。
now , two of the 47 moons that saturn has are standouts .	土星47顆衛星中有兩個是排名 。
and those are titan and enceladus . titan is saturn's largest moon , and , until cassini had arrived there , was the largest single expanse of unexplored terrain that we had remaining in our solar system .	那些是土衛六和土衛二 。 土衛六是土星最大的衛星 , 直到卡西尼抵達那裡 , 是太陽系中我們剩下最多未被探索的地形 。
and it is a body that has long intrigued people who've watched the planets .	而這個身體有很長一段感興趣的人觀看了這個星球 。
it has a very large , thick atmosphere , and in fact , its surface environment was believed to be more like the environment we have here on the earth , or at least had in the past , than any other body in the solar system .	它的大氣層非常厚 , 事實上 , 它的表面環境被認為比較像是地球上的環境 , 或者至少在過去 , 比太陽系中的任何其他身體都要大 。
its atmosphere is largely molecular nitrogen , like you are breathing here in this room , except that its atmosphere is suffused with simple organic materials like methane and propane and ethane .	它的大氣層主要是分子氮氣 , 就像你在這個房間裡呼吸一樣 , 但它的大氣層卻充滿了像甲烷、丙烷和乙烷的簡單有機物質 。
and these molecules high up in the atmosphere of titan get broken down , and their products join together to make haze particles .	這些分子在土衛六大氣層中高度被打破 , 它們的產品結合在一起 , 形成了 「 黑色粒子 」 。
this haze is ubiquitous . it's completely global and enveloping titan .	這隻海鮮無所不在 , 完全是全球性的 , 也是霸主 。
and that's why you cannot see down to the surface with our eyes in the visible region of the spectrum .	這就是為什麼你不能用眼睛在光譜中可見的區域看到我們的表面 。
but these haze particles , it was surmised , before we got there with cassini , over billions and billions of years , gently drifted down to the surface and coated the surface in a thick organic sludge .	但這些觸覺粒子在我們和卡西尼一起到達之前 , 已經有數十億年了 , 溫柔地漂移到表面 , 將表面覆蓋在有機泥中 。
so like the equivalent , the titan equivalent , of tar , or oil , or what we didn't know what .	所以 , 就像泰坦等同於焦油 , 油 , 或我們不知道的 。
but this is what we suspected . and these molecules , especially methane and ethane , can be liquids at the surface temperatures of titan .	但這就是我們猜想的 。 這些分子 , 特別是甲烷和乙烷 , 可能是土衛六表面溫度的液體 。
and so it turns out that methane is to titan what water is to the earth .	結果發現 , 甲烷是要把水送到地球上 。
it's a condensable in the atmosphere , and so recognizing this circumstance brought to the fore a whole world of bizarre possibilities . you can have methane clouds , ok , and above those clouds , you have this hundreds of kilometers of haze , which prevent any sunlight from getting to the surface .	在大氣層中 , 它是可以被凝聚的 , 所以認知到這個情況 , 帶到一個怪異的可能性 。 你可以有甲烷雲 , 好 , 在這些雲層上 , 上方有數百公里的霧氣 , 防止任何陽光照射到表面 。
the temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero fahrenheit .	表面溫度是華氏零下350度 。
but despite that cold , you could have rain falling down on the surface of titan .	但儘管寒冷 , 土衛六的表面下雨 。
and doing on titan what rain does on the earth: it carves gullies ; it forms rivers and cataracts ; it can create canyons ; it can pool in large basins and craters .	在土衛六上雨是如何在地球上運作的:它雕刻了石頭 ; 它形成了河流和開車 ; 它可以創造峽谷 ; 它可以在大盆地和隕石坑中聚集 。
it can wash the sludge off high mountain peaks and hills , down into the lowlands . so stop and think for a minute .	它可以把泥土洗掉高山頂和山丘 , 洗到低地 。 停下來 , 想一想 。
try to imagine what the surface of titan might look like .	試著想像土衛六表面會是什麼樣子 。
it's dark . high noon on titan is as dark as deep earth twilight on the earth .	黑暗 。 鐵達尼號的高低點和地球上深處的地震一樣黑 。
it's cold , it's eerie , it's misty , it might be raining , and you might be standing on the shores of lake michigan brimming with paint thinner .	它很冷 , 很噁心 , 很悲慘 , 可能會下雨 , 你可能站在密西根湖邊邊 , 用油漆薄板來模仿 。
that is the view that we had of the surface of titan before we got there with cassini , and i can tell you that what we have found on titan , though it is not the same in detail , is every bit as fascinating as that story is .	這是我們和卡西尼一起到達那裡之前的土衛六表面 , 我可以告訴你們 , 我們在土衛六所發現的 , 雖然細節不一樣 , 比那個故事更吸引人 。
and for us , it has been like the cassini people it has been like a jules verne adventure come true .	對我們來說 , 這就像卡西尼人一樣──它就像是一位陪審團的冒險 , 實現了 。
as i said , it has a thick , extensive atmosphere .	如我所說 , 它有很厚的大氣層 。
this is a picture of titan , backlit by the sun , with the rings as a beautiful backdrop .	這張照片是titan , 背著太陽 , 圈圈是美麗的背景 。
and yet another moon there i don't even know which one it is . it's a very extensive atmosphere .	還有另一顆衛星 , 我甚至不知道它是哪個 。 它是非常廣泛的大氣層 。
we have instruments on cassini which can see down to the surface through this atmosphere , and my camera system is one of them .	我們有卡西尼號的儀器可以透過大氣層看到海面 , 我的攝影機系統是其中之一 。
and we have taken pictures like this .	我們拍了像這樣的照片 。
and what you see is bright and dark regions , and that's about as far as it got for us .	你看到的是明亮又黑暗的區域 , 這跟我們目前為止一樣 。
it was so mystifying: we couldn't make out what we were seeing on titan .	這實在是太神奇了:我們無法找出我們在泰坦看到的是什麼 。
when you look closer at this region , you start to see things like sinuous channels we didn't know . you see a few round things .	當你仔細觀察這個區域時 , 你會開始看到我們不知道的無數通道 。 你會看到一些圓形的東西 。
this , we later found out , is , in fact , a crater , but there are very few craters on the surface of titan , meaning it's a very young surface .	我們後來發現 , 事實上 , 一個隕石坑 , 但土衛六表面上有很少的隕石坑 , 意思是 , 土衛六的表面很年輕 。
and there are features that look tectonic .	有些特徵看起來像是地形 。
they look like they've been pulled apart .	他們看起來就像被拉開一樣 。
whenever you see anything linear on a planet , it means there's been a fracture , like a fault .	每當你看到一個星球上的線性 , 就表示已經有破裂 , 像個錯 。
and so it's been tectonically altered .	所以它已經有了直覺的改變 。
but we couldn't make sense of our images , until , six months after we got into orbit , an event occurred that many have regarded as the highlight of cassini's investigation of titan .	但我們無法理解我們的影像 , 直到我們進入軌道六個月後 , 發生了一件事件 , 許多人都被視為是卡西尼對土衛六的高度調查 。
and that was the deployment of the huygens probe , the europeanbuilt huygens probe that cassini had carried for seven years across the solar system . we deployed it to the atmosphere of titan , it took two and a half hours to descend , and it landed on the surface .	這就是呼吸探測器的部署 , 歐洲的呼吸探測器 , 卡西尼在太陽系上載了七年 。 我們將它部署到土衛六的大氣層 , 花了2.5小時才能下降 , 直到表面上 。
and i just want to emphasize how significant an event this is .	我只想強調這個事件的重要性 。
this is a device of human making , and it landed in the outer solar system for the first time in human history .	這個裝置是人類製造的 , 它第一次在人類歷史上降落在外太陽系 。
it is so significant that , in my mind , this was an event that should have been celebrated with ticker tape parades in every city across the u . s . and europe , and sadly , that wasn't the case .	在我看來 , 這件事非常顯著 , 這事件應該要和美國和歐洲的每個城市的陳腔帶遊行一起慶祝 , 不幸的是 , 這並非如此 。
it was significant for another reason . this is an international mission , and this event was celebrated in europe , in germany , and the celebratory presentations were given in english accents , and american accents , and german accents , and french and italian and dutch accents .	這是另外一個原因 。 這是個國際的使命 , 在德國 , 舉辦的活動是英國口音、美國口音、德國口音、法語、義大利語和荷蘭口音 。
it was a moving demonstration of what the words " united nations " are supposed to mean: a true union of nations joined together in a colossal effort for good .	這是一個關於 「 聯合國 」 所謂的 「 聯合國 」 的示範:一個真正的聯合國 , 加入一個極為好的努力 。
and , in this case , it was a massive undertaking to explore a planet , and to come to understand a planetary system that , for all of human history , had been unreachable , and now humans had actually touched it .	在這個案例中 , 探索一個星球是很大的 , 漸漸了解一個行星系統 , 對於所有人類歷史來說 , 這個行星系統是不可思議的 , 現在人類已經觸碰了它 。
so it was i mean , i'm getting goose bumps just talking about it .	所以 , 我的意思是 , 我開始談起雞皮疙瘩 。
it was a tremendously emotional event , and it's something that i will personally never forget , and you shouldn't either .	那是非常激動的事件 , 我個人永遠不會忘記 , 也不該忘記 。
but anyway , the probe took measurements of the atmosphere on the way down , and it also took panoramic pictures .	總之 , 探測器在下面進行大氣層測量 , 也拍了全景照片 。
and i can't tell you what it was like to see the first pictures of titan's surface from the probe . and this is what we saw .	我無法告訴各位 , 看到探測器表面的第一張圖片是泰坦的表面 。 這是我們看到的 。
and it was a shocker , because it was everything we wanted those other pictures taken from orbit to be .	這真的很震驚 , 因為我們希望其他的照片都能從軌道上拍下來 。
it was an unambiguous pattern , a geological pattern .	那是一種不明確的模式 , 一種地質模式 。
it's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids .	它是一種只由液體流動而形成的趨勢 。
and you can follow these channels and you can see how they all converge .	你可以遵循這些通道 , 你可以看到它們是如何聚集在一起的 。
and they converge into this channel here , which drains into this region .	他們把這條通道連接到這裡 , 流入這個區域 。
you are looking at a shoreline .	你看到的是海岸線 。
was this a shoreline of fluids ? we didn't know .	這是流體的海岸線嗎 ? 我們不知道 。
but this is somewhat of a shoreline .	但這是海岸線 。
this picture is taken at 16 kilometers .	這張照片是在16公里拍攝的 。
this is the picture taken at eight kilometers , ok ? again , the shoreline .	這是8公里的照片 , 好嗎 ? 再一次 , 海岸線 。
okay , now , 16 kilometers , eight kilometers this is roughly an airline altitude .	好 , 現在 , 16公里 , 8公里大概是航空高度 。
if you were going to take an airplane trip across the u . s . , you would be flying at these altitudes .	如果你要穿越美國的飛機旅行 , 你會飛到這些高度 。
so , this is the picture you would have at the window of titanian airlines as you fly across the surface of titan .	這張照片是泰坦航空的窗戶 , 飛越土衛六的表面 。
and then finally , the probe came to rest on the surface , and i'm going to show you , ladies and gentlemen , the first picture ever taken from the surface of a moon in the outer solar system .	最後 , 探測器在表面休息 , 我要展示給你們看 , 各位先生女士 , 第一張從外太陽系的月亮表面拍攝的照片 。
and here is the horizon , ok ?	這是地平線 , 好嗎 ?
these are probably water ice pebbles , yes ?	這些可能是冰塊 , 是嗎 ?
and obviously , it landed in one of these flat , dark regions and it didn't sink out of sight . so it wasn't fluid that we landed in .	很明顯地 , 它降落在其中一個平坦、黑暗的區域 , 且它沒有從視線下沉 。 所以我們降落的不是液體 。
what the probe came down in was basically the titan equivalent of a mud flat .	探測器基本上就是土衛六的平面 。
this is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane .	這是一個沒有安慰的土地 , 充滿了液態甲烷 。
and it's probably the case that this material has washed off the highlands of titan through these channels that we saw , and has drained over billions of years to fill in lowlying basins .	可能是因為這種材料已經從土衛六的高地上清洗掉 , 穿過我們看到的這些管道 , 且已經耗盡了數十億年 , 來填滿低窪的盆地 。
and that is what the huygens probe landed in .	這就是海吉探測器登陸的原因 。
but still , there was no sign in our images , or even in the huygens' images , of any large , open bodies of fluids .	但仍然在我們的影像中沒有標誌 , 甚至在熱量的影像中 , 沒有任何大型的液體 。
where were they ? it got even more puzzling when we found dunes .	他們在哪裡 ? 當我們發現沙丘時 , 會變得更困惑 。
ok , so this is our movie of the equatorial region of titan , showing these dunes . these are dunes that are 100 meters tall , separated by a few kilometers , and they go on for miles and miles and miles .	好 , 這是我們在土衛六赤道地區的電影 , 顯示這些沙丘高達一百公尺高 , 分離了幾公里 , 它們延伸了幾英里和里程數 。
there's hundreds , up to a 1 , 000 or 1 , 200 miles of dunes .	數百英里高達一千到一千兩百英里的沙丘 。
this is the saharan desert of titan .	這是土衛六沙漠 。
it's obviously a place which is very dry , or you wouldn't get dunes .	很顯然 , 這是一個非常乾燥的地方 , 或者你不會得到沙丘 。
so again , it got puzzling that there were no bodies of fluid , until finally , we saw lakes in the polar regions .	再一次 , 令人困惑的是沒有液體 , 直到最後 , 我們看到北極地區的湖泊 。
and there is a lake scene in the south polar region of titan .	在土衛六南極地的南極地區有一個湖泊 。
it's about the size of lake ontario .	大約是安大略湖的大小 。
and then , only a week and a half ago , we flew over the north pole of titan and found , again , we found a feature here the size of the caspian sea .	僅僅一個星期半前 , 我們飛越了土衛六北極 , 再次發現 , 我們發現了像卡西亞海的大小 。
so it seems that the liquids , for some reason we don't understand , or during at least this season , are apparently at the poles of titan .	所以 , 似乎這些液體 , 基於某些我們不了解的原因 , 或至少在這個季節 , 都顯然是土衛六極 。
and i think you would agree that we have found titan is a remarkable , mystical place . it's exotic , it's alien , but yet strangely earthlike , and having earthlike geological formations and a tremendous geographical diversity , and is a fascinating world whose only rival in the solar system for complexity and richness is the earth itself .	我想你會同意 , 我們找到泰坦是個很了不起、很神秘的地方 。 它很奇怪 , 但卻是外星人 , 但有著像地球一樣的地質形態 , 也有很棒的地理多樣性 , 一個很棒的世界 , 在太陽系中 , 只有太陽系的複雜性和豐富性才是地球本身 。
and so now we go onto enceladus . enceladus is a small moon , it's about a tenth the size of titan . and you can see it here next to england , just to show you the size . this is not meant to be a threat .	現在我們來到土衛二 。 土衛二是個小月球 , 土衛六大小約是土衛六的十分之一 。 你可以看到在英格蘭旁邊 , 只為了讓你看到大小 。 這不是威脅 。
and enceladus is very white , it's very bright , and its surface is obviously wrecked with fractures .	土衛二非常白 , 非常明亮 , 它的表面很明顯地被破裂 。
it is a very geologically active body .	它是一個非常地質活躍的身體 。
but the mother lode of discoveries on enceladus was found at the south pole and we're looking at the south pole here where we found this system of fractures .	但在土衛二的母親在南極發現了新發現 , 我們正在看南極 , 在那裡我們找到了破裂的系統 。
and they're a different color because they're a different composition .	它們是不同的顏色 , 因為它們是不同的組成 。
they are coated . these fractures are coated with organic materials .	它們是被覆蓋的 。 這些碎片是用有機材料覆蓋的 。
moreover , this whole , entire region , the south polar region , has elevated temperatures . it's the hottest place on the planet , on the body .	此外 , 整個區域 , 整個南極地區 , 都升高了溫度 。 它是地球上最熱的地方 。
that's as bizarre as finding that the antarctic on the earth is hotter than the tropics .	這很奇怪 , 發現地球上的南極比熱帶更熱 。
and then , when we took additional pictures , we discovered that from these fractures are issuing jets of fine , icy particles extending hundreds of miles into space .	然後 , 當我們拍了額外的圖片 , 我們發現 , 從這些碎片中發現 , 冰粒會將數百英哩延伸到太空中 。
and when we colorcode this image , to bring out the faint light levels , we see that these jets feed a plume that , in fact , we see , in other images , goes thousands of miles into the space above enceladus .	當我們把這張圖描繪出來時 , 我們會看到這些噴射機餵食了一加水 , 事實上 , 在其他的圖像中 , 在土衛二上方數千英里的太空中 。
my team and i have examined images like this , and like this one , and have thought about the other results from cassini .	我的團隊和我研究了像這樣的圖片 , 像這個 , 思考了卡西尼其他的結果 。
and we have arrived at the conclusion that these jets may be erupting from pockets of liquid water under the surface of enceladus .	我們得到的結論是 , 這些噴射機可能從土衛二表面下噴發液態水 。
so we have , possibly , liquid water , organic materials and excess heat .	所以我們可能有液態水、有機材料和過多的熱能 。
in other words , we have possibly stumbled upon the holy grail of modern day planetary exploration , or in other words , an environment that is potentially suitable for living organisms .	換句話說 , 我們可能偶然發現了現代行星探索的聖杯 , 也就是說 , 一個適合生物生存的環境 。
and i don't think i need to tell you that the discovery of life elsewhere in our solar system , whether it be on enceladus or elsewhere , would have enormous cultural and scientific implications .	我不認為我需要告訴各位 , 在我們的太陽系中發現了生命 , 不論是在土衛二或其他地方 , 都會有巨大的文化和科學影響 。
because if we could demonstrate that genesis had occurred not once , but twice , independently , in our solar system , then that means , by inference , it has occurred a staggering number of times throughout the universe and its 13 . 7 billion year history .	因為如果我們能證明基因的發生不只一次 , 而是在我們的太陽系中 , 獨立發生兩次 , 那就意味著 , 根據推論 , 它在宇宙中發生了很驚人的次數 , 且它有137億年的歷史 。
right now , earth is the only planet still that we know is teeming with life .	目前 , 地球也是我們所知唯一的行星 , 就是充滿生命 。
it is precious , it is unique , it is still , so far , the only home we've ever known .	它很珍貴 , 它是獨一無二的 , 到目前為止 , 我們唯一認識的家 。
and if any of you were alert and coherent during the 1960s and we'd forgive you , if you weren't , ok you would remember this very famous picture taken by the apollo 8 astronauts in 1968 .	如果你們當中有任何人在1960年代時 , 都原諒你 , 如果你不是 , 那你會記得1968年阿波羅8號太空人拍的這張非常有名的照片 。
it was the first time that earth was imaged from space , and it had an enormous impact on our sense of place in the universe , and our sense of responsibility for the protection of our own planet .	那是第一次 , 地球是從太空拍攝出來的 , 它對我們在宇宙中的位置有著巨大的影響 , 我們對地球的保護有責任感 。
well , we on cassini have taken an equivalent first , a picture that no human eye has ever seen before .	嗯 , 我們在卡西尼首次拍了一幅相當於人類以前從未見過的照片
it is a total eclipse of the sun , seen from the other side of saturn .	它是太陽的全食 , 從土星的另一側看到 。
and in this impossibly beautiful picture , you see the main rings backlit by the sun , you see the refracted image of the sun and you see this ring created , in fact , by the exhalations of enceladus .	在這張不太美麗的圖片中 , 你可以看到由太陽所組成的主要環 , 你可以看到太陽重新折射的影像 , 你可以看到這個環 , 事實上 , 由土衛二的排放 。
but as if that weren't brilliant enough , we can spot , in this beautiful image , sight of our own planet , cradled in the arms of saturn's rings .	但就好像那還不夠聰明 , 我們可以在這個美麗的圖像中發現 , 看見我們自己的星球 , 在土星光環的手臂上爬上 。
now , there is something deeply moving about seeing ourselves from afar , and capturing the sight of our little , blueocean planet in the skies of other worlds .	現在 , 我們有一些深刻的動作 , 可以從外遇看到我們自己 , 捕捉到我們的小藍色的星球 , 在其他星球的天空中 。
and that , and the perspective of ourselves that we gain from that , may be , in the end , the finest reward that we earn from this journey of discovery that started half a century ago .	而我們從中獲益的這個觀點 , 可能是 , 最終 , 我們從這個半個世紀前開始的發現旅程中得到最好的獎賞 。
as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped . this slows the delivery of aid after a disaster and hides the economic potential of unused lands and unknown roads . in this short talk , google's lalitesh katragadda demos map maker , a group mapmaking tool that people around the globe are using to map their world .	在2005年 , 只有15%的世界被繪製出來 。 這慢慢地在災難後 , 隱藏了未經使用的土地和未知道路的經濟潛力 。 在這短短的演講中 , google的卡特加達展示地圖 , 全球各地的一群人繪製的地圖工具 , 用於繪製他們的世界地圖 。
collaboration , design , map , technology	合作、設計、地圖、科技、科技、
lalitesh katragadda: making maps to fight disaster , build economies	最近的卡特加達:製作地圖來對抗災難 , 建立經濟體 , 建立經濟體系 。
in 2008 , cyclone nargis devastated myanmar .	2008年 , 颶風納利斯遭到毀滅性的緬甸人 。
millions of people were in severe need of help .	數百萬人需要協助 。
the u . n . wanted to rush people and supplies to the area .	聯合國想要趕人和供應到該地區 。
but there were no maps , no maps of roads , no maps showing hospitals , no way for help to reach the cyclone victims .	但沒有地圖 , 沒有道路地圖 , 沒有地圖顯示醫院 , 沒有辦法幫助到cyclone受害者 。
when we look at a map of los angeles or london , it is hard to believe that as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geocodable level of detail .	當我們看到洛杉磯或倫敦的地圖時 , 很難相信 , 在2005年 , 世界上只有15%被描繪成地理的細節 。
the u . n . ran headfirst into a problem that the majority of the world's populous faces: not having detailed maps .	聯合國投入了世界上大部分人臉龐的問題:沒有細節地圖 。
but help was coming .	但救援已經來了 。
at google , 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120 , 000 kilometers of roads , 3 , 000 hospitals , logistics and relief points .	在google , 40名志工用了一套新的軟體來繪製十二萬公里的道路、三千間醫院、物流和救援點 。
and it took them four days .	他們花了四天 。
the new software they used ? google mapmaker .	他們用的新軟體 ? google繪圖機 。
google mapmaker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally .	google地圖製造商是一項技術 , 讓我們每個人都能繪製我們所知的地圖 。
people have used this software to map everything from roads to rivers , from schools to local businesses , and video stores to the corner store .	人們用這個軟體來繪製每樣東西 , 從道路到河流 , 從學校到當地企業 , 影片商店到轉角店 。
nobel prize nominee hernando de soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land .	諾貝爾獎提名赫南多•索托承認 , 對大部分開發中國家而言 , 經濟升降的關鍵是要處理大量未經調整的土地 。
for example , a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapitalized in india alone .	舉例來說 , 僅僅在印度 , 一兆美元的房地產仍然未被啟發 。
in the last year alone , thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information , and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable .	光是去年 , 在170個國家 , 數以千計的使用者就繪製了數百萬個資訊 , 創造了一幅細節的地圖 , 從來沒有被認為是可行的 。
and this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere .	這使得熱情使用者的力量無所不在 。
let's look at some of the maps being created by users right now .	現在讓我們來看看一些使用者所創造的地圖 。
so , as we speak , people are mapping the world in these 170 countries .	所以 , 正如我們所說 , 在這170個國家 , 人們正在繪製世界的地圖 。
you can see bridget in africa who just mapped a road in senegal .	你可以看到在非洲的橋樑 , 剛在塞內加爾繪製了一條道路 。
and , closer to home , chalua , an n . g . road in bangalore .	離家更近 , chalua , 班加羅爾的g.g.路 。
this is the result of computational geometry , gesture recognition , and machine learning .	這是計算幾何、手勢識別和機器學習的結果 。
this is a victory of thousands of users , in hundreds of cities , one user , one edit at a time .	這是數以百計城市使用者的勝利 , 一個使用者 , 一次編輯 。
this is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet .	這是我們未開發的地球70%的邀請 。
welcome to the new world .	歡迎來到新世界 。
in 2003 , the palestinian village of budrus mounted a 10monthlong nonviolent protest to stop a barrier being built across their olive groves . did you hear about it ? didn't think so . brazilian filmmaker julia bacha asks why we only pay attention to violence in the israelpalestine conflict and not to the nonviolent leaders who may one day bring peace .	2003年 , 巴勒斯坦村落布德魯斯在十個月大的非暴力抗議活動中阻止一道障礙在他們的橄欖樹上被建造出來 。 你有聽過嗎 ? 巴西製片人約利亞.朱利亞.巴哈亞問為什麼我們只關注以色列衝突的暴力 , 而不是非暴力的領導人 , 有一天會帶來和平 。
arts , communication , compassion , entertainment , film , peace , violence , war	藝術、溝通、慈悲、娛樂、電影、和平、暴力、戰爭、戰爭、
julia bacha: pay attention to nonviolence	juliabacha:注意非暴力的注意 。
for the last 8 years , i have dedicated my life to documenting the work of israelis and palestinians who are trying to end the conflict using peaceful means .	過去八年來 , 我致力於記錄以色列和巴勒斯坦人的工作 , 他們試圖用和平的手段來結束衝突 。
when i travel with my work across europe and the united states , one question always comes up: where is the palestinian gandhi ?	當我和歐洲及美國的作品一起旅行時 , 有一個問題總是出現:巴勒斯坦的甘地在哪裡 ?
why aren't palestinians using nonviolent resistance ?	為什麼巴勒斯坦人不使用非暴力抗爭 ?
the challenge i face when i hear this question is that often i have just returned from the middle east where i spent my time filming dozens of palestinians who are using nonviolence to defend their lands and water resources from israeli soldiers and settlers .	當我聽到這個問題時 , 我面臨的挑戰是 , 我常常從中東回來 , 在那裡 , 我花了很多時間拍攝數十名巴勒斯坦人 , 他們使用非暴力來保護他們的土地和水資源 , 來自以色列士兵和移民者 。
these leaders are trying to forge a massive national nonviolent movement to end the occupation and build peace in the region .	這些領導人正試著要打造一個全國性的非暴力運動 , 終止職業 , 並在該地區建立和平 。
yet , most of you have probably never heard about them .	但 , 在座大部分人可能從來沒有聽過他們 。
this divide between what's happening on the ground and perceptions abroad is one of the key reasons why we don't have yet a palestinian peaceful resistance movement that has been successful .	國外發生了什麼事和國外感知之間的分歧是為何我們尚未有巴勒斯坦和平抗爭運動成功的關鍵原因之一 。
so i'm here today to talk about the power of attention , the power of your attention , and the emergence and development of nonviolent movements in the west bank , gaza and elsewhere but today , my case study is going to be palestine .	我今天在這裡要談的是注意力的力量 , 你的注意力 , 以及在西岸、加薩和其他地方的非暴力運動的崛起和發展 , 但今天 , 我的案件研究將會是巴勒斯坦 。
i believe that what's mostly missing for nonviolence to grow is not for palestinians to start adopting nonviolence , but for us to start paying attention to those who already are .	我相信 , 最少缺少非暴力來成長的 , 並不是為了巴勒斯坦人開始採用非暴力 , 而是要我們開始注意那些已經存在的人 。
allow me to illustrate this point by taking you to this village called budrus .	讓我用布德魯斯帶你到這個叫布德魯斯的村子來說明這個點 。
about seven years ago , they faced extinction , because israel announced it would build a separation barrier , and part of this barrier would be built on top of the village .	大約七年前 , 他們面臨絕種 , 因為以色列宣佈它會建造一個隔離障礙 , 其中一部分的障礙會在村落上蓋 。
they would lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded , so they would lose free access to the rest of the west bank .	他們會失去40%的土地 , 被包圍 , 所以他們會失去自由的權利 , 到其他的西岸 。
through inspired local leadership , they launched a peaceful resistance campaign to stop that from happening .	透過當地領導者的靈感 , 他們發起了和平的抗爭活動 , 來阻止這種事發生 。
let me show you some brief clips , so you have a sense for what that actually looked like on the ground .	讓我給你們看一些短片 , 所以你們有一種感覺 , 在地面上看起來是什麼樣子 。
palestinian woman: we were told the wall would separate palestine from israel .	巴勒斯坦女性:我們被告知牆會和以色列分開巴勒斯坦 。
here in budrus , we realized the wall would steal our land .	在布德魯斯 , 我們發現牆會偷我們的土地 。
israeli man: the fence has , in fact , created a solution to terror .	以色列人:柵欄事實上 , 為恐怖創造了一個解決方案 。
man: today you're invited to a peaceful march .	男人:今天你被邀請參加和平的遊行 。
you are joined by dozens of your israeli brothers and sisters .	你加入了數十個以色列兄弟姐妹 。
israeli activist: nothing scares the army more than nonviolent opposition .	以色列行動主義者:沒有什麼比非暴力反對者更嚇人 。
woman: we saw the men trying to push the soldiers , but none of them could do that .	女子:我們看到男人試圖推動士兵 , 但沒有人能那樣做 。
but i think the girls could do it .	但我認為女孩可以做到 。
fatah party member: we must empty our minds of traditional thinking .	法塔•派對成員:我們必須忽略傳統思維 。
hamas party member: we were in complete harmony , and we wanted to spread it to all of palestine .	哈馬斯•派對:我們是完整的和諧 , 我們想要把它散播到巴勒斯坦 。
chanting: one united nation .	聊天:聯合國 。
fatah , hamas and the popular front !	法塔、哈馬斯和流行的前面 !
news anchor: the clashes over the fence continue .	新聞主持人:柵欄的凝塊持續著 。
reporter: israeli border police were sent to disperse the crowd .	記者:以色列邊界警察被送去散播群眾 。
they were allowed to use any force necessary .	他們被允許使用任何必要的力量 。
man: these are live bullets .	男人:這些是活的子彈 。
it's like fallujah . shooting everywhere .	這就好像在世界各地射擊 。
israeli activist: i was sure we were all going to die .	以色列行動主義者:我確信我們都會死 。
but there were others around me who weren't even cowering .	但在我身邊還有其他人 , 甚至不是牛仔 。
israeli soldier: a nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear] .	以色列士兵:非暴力抗議不會阻止伊斯蘭國 。
protester: this is a peaceful march .	蛋白:這是一場和平的遊行 。
there is no need to use violence .	不需要使用暴力 。
chanting: we can do it ! we can do it !	溝通:我們能做到 ! 我們能做到 !
julia bacha: when i first heard about the story of budrus , i was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago , in 2003 .	朱利亞•巴查亞:我第一次聽到布德魯斯的故事時 , 我很驚訝國際媒體並沒有報導七年前發生的非凡事件 , 在2003年發生 。
what was even more surprising was the fact that budrus was successful .	更令人驚訝的是 , 布德魯斯成功了 。
the residents , after 10 months of peaceful resistance , convinced the israeli government to move the route of the barrier off their lands and to the green line , which is the internationally recognized boundary between israel and the palestinian territories .	居民 , 經過10個月的和平抗爭 , 說服以色列政府將土地上的障礙移到綠線上 , 也就是國際認可以色列和巴勒斯坦領土之間的界線 。
the resistance in budrus has since spread to villages across the west bank and to palestinian neighborhoods in jerusalem .	布德魯斯的抗爭自從散播到整個西岸的村莊 , 到耶路撒冷的巴勒斯坦鄰里 。
yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories .	但媒體仍然沉默於這些故事中 。
this silence carries profound consequences for the likelihood that nonviolence can grow , or even survive , in palestine .	這種沉默會造成很深刻的後果 , 造成非暴力的可能性 , 甚至在巴勒斯坦的存活 。
violent resistance and nonviolent resistance share one very important thing in common ; they are both a form of theater seeking an audience to their cause .	暴力抗爭和非暴力抗爭有著非常重要的共通點 , 兩者都有形式的劇院尋求觀眾的理想 。
if violent actors are the only ones constantly getting frontpage covers and attracting international attention to the palestinian issue , it becomes very hard for nonviolent leaders to make the case to their communities that civil disobedience is a viable option in addressing their plight .	如果暴力演員是唯一不斷地收到頭版 , 並吸引國際關注巴勒斯坦的議題 , 那對非暴力的領導者來說 , 要對他們的社區來說 , 公民不服從是可行的選擇 。
the power of attention is probably going to come as no surprise to the parents in the room .	注意力的力量可能對在座的父母來說是毫無意外的 。
the surest way to make your child throw increasingly louder tantrums is by giving him attention the first time he throws a fit .	要讓你的孩子更大聲地投擲你的孩子 , 最好的方式就是讓他第一次關注他 , 他把手放進去 。
the tantrum will become what childhood psychologists call a functional behavior , since the child has learned that he can get parental attention out of it .	螞蟻會變成兒時心理學家所謂的 「 功能性行為 」 , 因為孩子們知道他可以從中得到父母的注意力 。
parents can incentivize or disincentivize behavior simply by giving or withdrawing attention to their children .	父母可以鼓勵或貶低行為 , 只要給予或讓孩子們注意力就好了 。
but that's true for adults too .	但對成人來說也是如此 。
in fact , the behavior of entire communities and countries can be influenced , depending on where the international community chooses to focus its attention .	事實上 , 整個社區和國家的行為可以被影響 , 取決於國際社會選擇把注意力放在哪裡 。
i believe that at the core of ending the conflict in the middle east and bringing peace is for us to transform nonviolence into a functional behavior by giving a lot more attention to the nonviolent leaders on the ground today .	我相信 , 終結中東的衝突 , 帶來和平的核心是要將非暴力行為轉化為功能性行為 , 讓更多關注現今在地面上的非暴力領袖 。
in the course of taking my film to villages in the west bank , in gaza and in east jerusalem , i have seen the impact that even one documentary film can have in influencing the transformation .	在拍攝西岸、加薩和東耶路撒冷的村落中 , 我看到即使是一部紀錄片 , 也會影響到轉變 。
in a village called wallajeh , which sits very close to jerusalem , the community was facing a very similar plight to budrus .	在一個叫瓦拉賈的村子裡 , 離耶路撒冷很近 , 社區正面臨著和布德魯斯非常相似的困境 。
they were going to be surrounded , lose a lot of their lands and not have freedom of access , either to the west bank or jerusalem .	他們會被包圍 , 失去很多土地 , 沒有任何可取得的自由 , 不論是西岸或耶路撒冷 。
they had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention .	兩年來 , 他們一直在使用非暴力 , 但從沒人注意到他們就越來越不滿了 。
so we organized a screening .	所以我們組織了一個螢幕 。
a week later , they held the most wellattended and disciplined demonstration to date .	一個禮拜後 , 他們舉辦了最好的示範和最明確的示範 。
the organizers say that the villagers , upon seeing the story of budrus documented in a film , felt that there were indeed people following what they were doing , that people cared .	組織者說 , 村民看到布德魯斯在電影中記錄了布德魯斯的故事 , 認為確實有人在追蹤他們在做的事 , 有人在乎 。
so they kept on going .	所以他們繼續下去 。
on the israeli side , there is a new peace movement called solidariot , which means solidarity in hebrew .	在以色列 , 有一個新的和平運動 , 叫做索麗達里ot , 意思是希伯來的團結 。
the leaders of this movement have been using budrus as one of their primary recruiting tools .	這項運動的領導者一直把布德魯斯當作主要的招募工具之一 。
they report that israelis who had never been active before , upon seeing the film , understand the power of nonviolence and start joining their activities .	他們報告說 , 以色列人從來沒有活躍過 , 看電影 , 了解非暴力的力量 , 開始加入他們的活動 。
the examples of wallajeh and the solidariot movement show that even a smallbudget independent film can play a role in transforming nonviolence into a functional behavior .	華拉賈和索里達里德運動的例子顯示 , 即使是一部小預算的獨立電影 , 也可以扮演一個角色 , 將非暴力行為轉化為功能性行為 。
now imagine the power that big media players could have if they started covering the weekly nonviolent demonstrations happening in villages like bil'in , ni'lin , wallajeh , in jerusalem neighborhoods like sheikh jarrah and silwan the nonviolent leaders would become more visible , valued and effective in their work .	現在 , 想像一下 , 大型媒體玩家可以擁有的力量 , 如果他們開始報導每週非暴力的示威 , 在村落中發生 , 比如比利、尼、瓦拉、耶路撒冷 , 在耶路撒冷的鄰里 , 如希克•賈拉和史瓦 , 非暴力的領導人 , 在他們的工作中 , 會變得更明顯、更有價值、更有效率 。
i believe that the most important thing is to understand that if we don't pay attention to these efforts , they are invisible , and it's as if they never happened .	我相信最重要的是要了解 , 如果我們不注意這些努力 , 它們是看不見的 , 就好像它們從來沒有發生過一樣 。
but i have seen first hand that if we do , they will multiply .	但我親眼見識過 , 如果我們做到了 , 他們就會乘上去 。
if they multiply , their influence will grow in the overall israelipalestinian conflict .	如果它們的數量會增加 , 它們的影響力會在以色列的衝突中成長 。
and theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation .	他們的影響力終於可以解開局面 。
these leaders have proven that nonviolence works in places like budrus .	這些領導人證明非暴力在布德魯斯之類的地方是有效的 。
let's give them attention so they can prove it works everywhere .	讓我們關注他們 , 讓他們可以證明它在各地運作 。
simon sinek has a simple but powerful model for inspirational leadership all starting with a golden circle and the question " why ? " his examples include apple , martin luther king , and the wright brothers . . .	西蒙•辛克有個簡單但有力的模式 , 鼓舞人心的領導人 , 都從金圈開始 , 問題是: 「 為什麼 ? 」 他的例子包括蘋果、馬丁•路德金 , 以及萊特兄弟 。
bullseye , business , entrepreneur , leadership , sales , selling , success	bullseye , 商業 , 企業家 , 領導力 , 銷售 , 賣 , 成功 , 成功 。
simon sinek: how great leaders inspire action	西蒙•桑德克:偉大的領導者啟發了行動 。
how do you explain when things don't go as we assume ?	你要如何解釋當事情不像我們假設的那樣 ?
or better , how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions ?	或更好的是 , 你要如何解釋 , 當其他人能夠做到似乎違反所有假設時 , 你要如何解釋 ?
for example: why is apple so innovative ?	例如:為什麼蘋果如此有創意 ?
year after year , after year , after year , they're more innovative than all their competition .	年復一年 , 一年又一年 , 他們比他們所有的競爭都要有創意 。
and yet , they're just a computer company .	然而 , 他們只是一家電腦公司 。
they're just like everyone else .	他們就像其他人一樣 。
they have the same access to the same talent , the same agencies , the same consultants , the same media .	他們有相同的才華、相同的機構、相同的顧問、相同的媒體 。
then why is it that they seem to have something different ?	那麼 , 為什麼他們似乎有不同之處 ?
why is it that martin luther king led the civil rights movement ?	為什麼馬丁•路德•金恩帶領民權運動 ?
he wasn't the only man who suffered in a precivil rights america , and he certainly wasn't the only great orator of the day .	他不是唯一一個在美國受苦的人 , 他肯定不是那天最偉大的演說者 。
and why is it that the wright brothers were able to figure out controlled , powered man flight when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified , better funded . . .	為什麼萊特兄弟們能夠想出控制權 , 強權的人飛行 , 當然還有其他更好的隊伍 , 更好的資金......
and they didn't achieve powered man flight , and the wright brothers beat them to it .	他們沒有完成人類飛行 , 萊特兄弟打敗他們 。
there's something else at play here .	這裡還有別的玩法 。
about three and a half years ago i made a discovery .	大約三年半前 , 我做了一項發現 。
and this discovery profoundly changed my view on how i thought the world worked , and it even profoundly changed the way in which i operate in it .	這項發現深深地改變了我對世界運作的方式 , 它甚至深深地改變了我運作的方式 。
as it turns out , there's a pattern .	結果發現 , 有一種模式 。
as it turns out , all the great and inspiring leaders and organizations in the world whether it's apple or martin luther king or the wright brothers they all think , act and communicate the exact same way .	結果發現 , 世界上所有偉大、鼓舞人心的領導人和組織 , 不論是蘋果、馬丁路德金 , 或是他們認為的萊特兄弟 , 採取行動 , 並以相同的方式溝通 。
and it's the complete opposite to everyone else .	完全相反 。
all i did was codify it , and it's probably the world's simplest idea .	我所做的就是編碼它 , 可能是世界上最簡單的想法 。
i call it the golden circle .	我稱之為黃金圈 。
why ? how ? what ?	為什麼 ? 怎麼做 ? 什麼 ?
this little idea explains why some organizations and some leaders are able to inspire where others aren't .	這個小點子解釋了為什麼有些組織和一些領導人能夠鼓舞其他人不在哪裡 。
let me define the terms really quickly .	讓我很快地定義這個詞 。
every single person , every single organization on the planet knows what they do , 100 percent .	每個人 , 地球上的每一個組織都知道他們在做什麼 , 百分之百 。
some know how they do it , whether you call it your differentiated value proposition or your proprietary process or your usp .	有些人知道他們是怎麼做到的 , 不管你稱之為 「 分化價值觀 」 的提案 , 不管你稱之為 「 適當的程序 」 或 「 適當的程序 」 。
but very , very few people or organizations know why they do what they do .	但很少人或組織知道他們為什麼要做他們要做的事 。
and by " why " i don't mean " to make a profit . "	所謂的 「 為什麼 」 , 我不是要 「 賺錢 」 。
that's a result . it's always a result .	這是結果 , 一直都是結果 。
by " why , " i mean: what's your purpose ?	我指的是:你的目的是什麼 ?
what's your cause ? what's your belief ?	你的原因是什麼 ? 你的信念是什麼 ?
why does your organization exist ?	你的組織為什麼存在 ?
why do you get out of bed in the morning ?	為什麼你早上起床 ?
and why should anyone care ?	為什麼有人要在乎呢 ?
well , as a result , the way we think , the way we act , the way we communicate is from the outside in .	因此 , 我們思考的方式、行動方式、溝通的方式 , 都來自外面 。
it's obvious . we go from the clearest thing to the fuzziest thing .	很明顯 。 我們從最清楚的事物到最模糊的事物 。
but the inspired leaders and the inspired organizations regardless of their size , regardless of their industry all think , act and communicate from the inside out .	但激勵人心的領導人和激勵人心的組織 , 不論他們的規模 , 不論他們的產業都認為 , 採取行動和溝通 。
let me give you an example .	讓我舉個例子 。
i use apple because they're easy to understand and everybody gets it .	我用蘋果是因為它們很容易了解 , 每個人都懂 。
if apple were like everyone else , a marketing message from them might sound like this: " we make great computers .	如果蘋果和其他人一樣 , 他們的行銷訊息聽起來會像這樣: 「 我們製造出很棒的電腦 。
they're beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	它們設計得很漂亮 , 很簡單 , 可以使用和使用者友善 。
want to buy one ? " " meh . "	想買一台嗎 ? 」
and that's how most of us communicate .	這就是我們大多數人溝通的方式 。
that's how most marketing is done , that's how most sales is done and that's how most of us communicate interpersonally .	大部分的行銷是這樣做的 , 大部分的銷售都是這樣做的 , 那就是我們大多數人之間的溝通方式 。
we say what we do , we say how we're different or how we're better and we expect some sort of a behavior , a purchase , a vote , something like that .	我們說我們做的事 , 我們說我們是如何變得更好 , 我們期待某種行為、購買、投票 , 諸如此類 。
here's our new law firm: we have the best lawyers with the biggest clients , we always perform for our clients who do business with us .	這是我們的新法律公司:我們有最好的律師 , 有最大的客戶 , 我們總是為我們的客戶做生意 。
here's our new car: it gets great gas mileage , it has leather seats , buy our car .	這是我們的新車:它有很棒的氣體流程 , 它有皮革座位 , 買我們的車 。
here's how apple actually communicates .	蘋果電腦是如何溝通的 。
" everything we do , we believe in challenging the status quo .	「 我們所做的一切 , 我們相信挑戰現狀 。
we believe in thinking differently .	我們相信用不同的方式思考 。
the way we challenge the status quo is by making our products beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	我們挑戰現狀的方式是 , 把我們的產品設計得很漂亮 , 很簡單 , 可以使用和使用者友善 。
we just happen to make great computers .	我們剛好是用電腦做好的 。
want to buy one ? "	想買一台嗎 ? 」
totally different right ? you're ready to buy a computer from me .	完全不同的是吧 ? 你準備好要跟我買一台電腦 。
all i did was reverse the order of the information .	我所做的就是反轉資訊的順序 。
what it proves to us is that people don't buy what you do ; people buy why you do it .	它向我們證明了人們不買你做什麼 ; 人們買你為什麼要做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 。
this explains why every single person in this room is perfectly comfortable buying a computer from apple .	這解釋了為什麼在座的每個人都很自在地買蘋果電腦 。
but we're also perfectly comfortable buying an mp3 player from apple , or a phone from apple , or a dvr from apple .	但我們也很自在地買蘋果電腦的mp3播放器 , 或蘋果電腦的電話 , 或是蘋果電腦的dvr 。
but , as i said before , apple's just a computer company .	但 , 就像我之前說的 , 蘋果只是一家電腦公司 。
there's nothing that distinguishes them structurally from any of their competitors .	沒有什麼可以區別它們的競爭者 。
their competitors are all equally qualified to make all of these products .	他們的競爭對手都一樣有資格做這些產品 。
in fact , they tried .	事實上 , 他們試過了 。
a few years ago , gateway came out with flat screen tvs .	幾年前 , gateway發表了平面電視 。
they're eminently qualified to make flat screen tvs .	他們非常有資格製作平面電視 。
they've been making flat screen monitors for years .	他們多年來都在製作平面螢幕 。
dell came out with mp3 players and pdas , and they make great quality products , and they can make perfectly welldesigned products and nobody bought one .	德爾想出了mp3播放器和pdas , 他們製造了很棒的品質產品 , 他們能做出完美的設計產品 , 沒有人買 。
in fact , talking about it now , we can't even imagine buying an mp3 player from dell .	事實上 , 談到這件事 , 我們甚至無法想像從現場購買mp3播放器 。
why would you buy an mp3 player from a computer company ?	為什麼你會從電腦公司買mp3播放器 ?
but we do it every day .	但我們每天都這麼做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 。
the goal is not to do business with everybody who needs what you have .	目標不是要跟你所擁有的所有人做生意 。
the goal is to do business with people who believe what you believe .	目標是要和相信你所相信的人做生意 。
here's the best part: none of what i'm telling you is my opinion .	最棒的部分是:我要告訴你的是我的意見 。
it's all grounded in the tenets of biology .	這一切都基於生物學的基礎 。
not psychology , biology .	不是心理學、生物學 。
if you look at a crosssection of the human brain , looking from the top down , what you see is the human brain is actually broken into three major components that correlate perfectly with the golden circle .	如果你看看人類大腦的橫軸 , 從上往下看 , 你可以看到人類的大腦實際上被分成三個主要元件 , 與黃金圈完全相關 。
our newest brain , our homo sapien brain , our neocortex , corresponds with the " what " level .	我們最新的大腦 , 我們的智人大腦 , 我們的新皮層 , 與 「 什麼 」 層面相對應 。
the neocortex is responsible for all of our rational and analytical thought and language .	新皮層負責我們所有的理性、分析思考和語言 。
the middle two sections make up our limbic brains , and our limbic brains are responsible for all of our feelings , like trust and loyalty .	中間兩個部分組成我們的邊緣大腦 , 我們的邊緣大腦負責我們所有的感覺 , 像是信任和忠誠 。
it's also responsible for all human behavior , all decisionmaking , and it has no capacity for language .	它也負責所有人類的行為 , 所有決策 , 它沒有語言的能力 。
in other words , when we communicate from the outside in , yes , people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features and benefits and facts and figures .	換句話說 , 當我們從外面的溝通 , 是的 , 人們可以了解大量複雜的資訊 , 比如特徵、利益、事實和數字 。
it just doesn't drive behavior .	只是它不會驅動行為 。
when we can communicate from the inside out , we're talking directly to the part of the brain that controls behavior , and then we allow people to rationalize it with the tangible things we say and do .	當我們從內部傳遞訊息時 , 我們直接對控制行為的大腦說話 , 接著 , 我們允許人們將它合理化 , 用我們說和做的事 。
this is where gut decisions come from .	這就是腸道決策的來源 。
you know , sometimes you can give somebody all the facts and figures , and they say , " i know what all the facts and details say , but it just doesn't feel right . "	有時候你會給某人所有的事實和數據 , 他們會說: 「 我知道所有事實和細節都說了什麼 , 但感覺不對 。 」
why would we use that verb , it doesn't " feel " right ?	為什麼我們要用這個動詞 , 它不會 「 感覺 」 ?
because the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking doesn't control language .	因為控制決策的大腦部位無法控制語言 。
and the best we can muster up is , " i don't know . it just doesn't feel right . "	我們最好能忍受的就是: 「 我不知道 , 感覺不對 。 」
or sometimes you say you're leading with your heart , or you're leading with your soul .	或者有時候你會說你是帶著你的心 , 或是你的靈魂領導 。
well , i hate to break it to you , those aren't other body parts controlling your behavior .	嗯 , 我討厭把它打破 , 不是其他身體部位控制你的行為 。
it's all happening here in your limbic brain , the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking and not language .	這一切都發生在你的邊緣大腦中 , 控制決策的那部分 , 而非語言 。
but if you don't know why you do what you do , and people respond to why you do what you do , then how will you ever get people to vote for you , or buy something from you , or , more importantly , be loyal and want to be a part of what it is that you do .	但如果你不知道你為什麼要做你做的事 , 人們會回應你為什麼要做你做的事 , 那你要如何讓人們投票給你 , 或從你身上買東西 , 或者 , 更重要的是 , 忠誠 , 想要成為你所做的事的一部分 。
again , the goal is not just to sell to people who need what you have ; the goal is to sell to people who believe what you believe .	同樣的 , 目標不只是賣給需要你的人 , 目標是賣給那些相信你所相信的人 。
the goal is not just to hire people who need a job ; it's to hire people who believe what you believe .	目標不只是要僱用需要工作的人 ; 而是要僱用那些相信你所相信的事的人 。
i always say that , you know , if you hire people just because they can do a job , they'll work for your money , but if you hire people who believe what you believe , they'll work for you with blood and sweat and tears .	我總是說 , 如果你雇用人 , 只因為他們能做一份工作 , 他們會為你的錢工作 , 但如果你雇用那些相信你所相信的人 , 他們會用血汗和淚水來工作 。
and nowhere else is there a better example of this than with the wright brothers .	沒有什麼比萊特兄弟更好的例子 。
most people don't know about samuel pierpont langley .	大多數人不知道samuelpierpontlangley 。
and back in the early 20th century , the pursuit of powered man flight was like the dot com of the day .	回到20世紀初期 , 追求人類飛行的追求 , 就像是那天的網路com 。
everybody was trying it .	每個人都在嘗試 。
and samuel pierpont langley had , what we assume , to be the recipe for success .	而samuelpierpontlangley所擁有的 , 我們假設成功的食譜 。
i mean , even now , you ask people , " why did your product or why did your company fail ? "	我是說 , 甚至現在 , 你問人們: 「 你的產品或你的公司為什麼會失敗 ? 」
and people always give you the same permutation of the same three things: undercapitalized , the wrong people , bad market conditions .	人們總是給予你相同的三件事:不受啟發、錯誤的人、壞的市場條件 。
it's always the same three things , so let's explore that .	一直都是同樣的三件事 , 讓我們來探究一下 。
samuel pierpont langley was given 50 , 000 dollars by the war department to figure out this flying machine .	samuelpierpontlangley得到了五萬美金 , 由戰爭部門來想出這台飛行機器 。
money was no problem .	金錢根本沒問題 。
he held a seat at harvard and worked at the smithsonian and was extremely wellconnected ; he knew all the big minds of the day .	他在哈佛舉辦了一座座位 , 在史密森尼工作 , 當時非常有連結 ; 他知道當時的所有大心 。
he hired the best minds money could find and the market conditions were fantastic .	他僱用了最好的心態金錢 , 市場條件很棒 。
the new york times followed him around everywhere , and everyone was rooting for langley .	紐約時報隨處跟著他 , 每個人都在為拉ngley開根 。
then how come we've never heard of samuel pierpont langley ?	我們怎麼可能從來沒有聽過samuelpierpontlangley ?
a few hundred miles away in dayton ohio , orville and wilbur wright , they had none of what we consider to be the recipe for success .	幾百英里遠在俄亥俄州 , 奧維爾和威爾布萊特 , 他們沒有我們認為成功的食譜 。
they had no money ; they paid for their dream with the proceeds from their bicycle shop ; not a single person on the wright brothers' team had a college education , not even orville or wilbur ; and the new york times followed them around nowhere .	他們沒有錢 ; 他們用自行車店的腳踏車來支付夢想 ; 沒有一個人在萊特兄弟的團隊中受過大學教育 , 甚至是奧維爾或威爾堡 ; 紐約時報跟隨他們到處走 。
the difference was , orville and wilbur were driven by a cause , by a purpose , by a belief .	差別在於 , 奧維爾和威爾堡被一個目的、一個目的、一個目的、一個信念所驅動 。
they believed that if they could figure out this flying machine , it'll change the course of the world .	他們相信如果他們能想出這台飛行機器 , 就會改變世界的軌跡 。
samuel pierpont langley was different .	samuelpierpontlangley不同 。
he wanted to be rich , and he wanted to be famous .	他想要變得富有 , 他想要有名 。
he was in pursuit of the result .	他追求結果 。
he was in pursuit of the riches .	他追求富人 。
and lo and behold , look what happened .	注意 , 看看發生了什麼事
the people who believed in the wright brothers' dream worked with them with blood and sweat and tears .	相信萊特兄弟的夢想 , 和他們一起工作 , 血汗和淚水 。
the others just worked for the paycheck .	另外一些人只是為薪水工作 。
and they tell stories of how every time the wright brothers went out , they would have to take five sets of parts , because that's how many times they would crash before they came in for supper .	他們講述故事 , 每次萊特兄弟出櫃時 , 他們會需要花五組零件 , 因為他們會在他們進來之前撞到幾次 。
and , eventually , on december 17th , 1903 , the wright brothers took flight , and no one was there to even experience it .	最終 , 1903年12月17日 , 萊特兄弟飛了起來 , 沒有人去體驗它 。
we found out about it a few days later .	幾天後我們就發現了 。
and further proof that langley was motivated by the wrong thing: the day the wright brothers took flight , he quit .	更進一步的證明 , 蘭利被錯誤的動機驅使:萊特兄弟飛行的那天 , 他放棄了 。
he could have said , " that's an amazing discovery , guys , and i will improve upon your technology , " but he didn't .	他可能會說: 「 那是很棒的發現 , 各位 , 我會改善你的科技 。 」 但他沒有 。
he wasn't first , he didn't get rich , he didn't get famous so he quit .	他不是第一個 , 他沒有變有錢 , 他沒有變有名 , 所以他放棄了 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 。
and if you talk about what you believe , you will attract those who believe what you believe .	如果你談到你所相信的 , 你會吸引那些相信你所相信的人 。
but why is it important to attract those who believe what you believe ?	但為什麼吸引那些相信你所相信的人是很重要的 ?
something called the law of diffusion of innovation , and if you don't know the law , you definitely know the terminology .	一種叫做 「 創新的擴散法則 」 , 如果你不知道法律 , 你絕對知道術語 。
the first two and a half percent of our population are our innovators .	人口的前2.5%是我們的創新者 。
the next 13 and a half percent of our population are our early adopters .	接下來的13.5%是我們的早期採用者 。
the next 34 percent are your early majority , your late majority and your laggards .	接下來的34%是你最早的大多數人 , 你的大多數人和拉克人 。
the only reason these people buy touch tone phones is because you can't buy rotary phones anymore .	這些人購買觸覺電話的唯一原因 , 就是你不再買輪車電話 。
we all sit at various places at various times on this scale , but what the law of diffusion of innovation tells us is that if you want massmarket success or massmarket acceptance of an idea , you cannot have it until you achieve this tipping point between 15 and 18 percent market penetration , and then the system tips .	我們都處在不同時間點 , 但創新的散播法則告訴我們 , 如果你想要大眾市場成功或大眾市場接受這個想法 , 你就無法做到這個臨界點 , 直到你達成了15%到18%的市場滲透 , 然後系統的尖端 。
and i love asking businesses , " what's your conversion on new business ? "	我喜歡問企業: 「 你對新企業的轉變是什麼 ? 」
and they love to tell you , " oh , it's about 10 percent , " proudly .	他們很喜歡告訴你: 「 喔 , 這大約是10% 。 」 很驕傲地 ,
well , you can trip over 10 percent of the customers .	嗯 , 你可以超過百分之十的客戶 。
we all have about 10 percent who just " get it . "	我們大約有百分之十的人只是 「 了解 」 。
that's how we describe them , right ?	這就是我們如何描述它們 , 對吧 ?
that's like that gut feeling , " oh , they just get it . "	就像那種直覺的感覺: 「 喔 , 他們就懂了 。 」
the problem is: how do you find the ones that get it before you're doing business with them versus the ones who don't get it ?	問題是:你要如何找到那些在你做生意之前找到的 , 而不是那些不懂的人 ?
so it's this here , this little gap that you have to close , as jeffrey moore calls it , " crossing the chasm " because , you see , the early majority will not try something until someone else has tried it first .	所以 , 在這裡 , 你必須關閉的這個小差距 , 如同jeffreymoore所說的 , " 跨越這個隔閡 " , 因為 , 你看 , 早期大部分的人都不會嘗試一些東西 , 直到有人先試過它 。
and these guys , the innovators and the early adopters , they're comfortable making those gut decisions .	這些人 , 創新者和早期採用者 , 他們很自在地做出這些直覺決策 。
they're more comfortable making those intuitive decisions that are driven by what they believe about the world and not just what product is available .	他們更自在地做出那些直覺的決策 , 由他們對世界的信念所驅動 , 而不只是產品可用 。
these are the people who stood in line for six hours to buy an iphone when they first came out , when you could have just walked into the store the next week and bought one off the shelf .	這些人是排隊排隊六個小時買iphone的人 , 當他們第一次出櫃時 , 可以在下星期走進店裡 , 買下一台手機 。
these are the people who spent 40 , 000 dollars on flat screen tvs when they first came out , even though the technology was substandard .	這些人一開始就花了四萬美金在平面電視上 , 儘管這項技術是次等的 。
and , by the way , they didn't do it because the technology was so great ; they did it for themselves .	順便一提 , 他們並沒有這麼做 , 因為這項技術太棒了 , 他們自己也做了 。
it's because they wanted to be first .	那是因為他們想要成為第一 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it and what you do simply proves what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 , 你做的就是證明你所相信的 。
in fact , people will do the things that prove what they believe .	事實上 , 人們會做那些證明他們所相信的事 。
the reason that person bought the iphone in the first six hours , stood in line for six hours , was because of what they believed about the world , and how they wanted everybody to see them: they were first .	前六個小時 , 人們買iphone的原因 , 站在前六個小時 , 是因為他們對這個世界的信念 , 以及他們希望每個人看到的:他們是第一 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 。
so let me give you a famous example , a famous failure and a famous success of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我給你們一個有名的例子 , 一個有名的失敗和一個有名的成功 , 關於創新的散播法則 。
first , the famous failure .	首先 , 知名的失敗 。
it's a commercial example .	這是個商業的例子 。
as we said before , a second ago , the recipe for success is money and the right people and the right market conditions , right ? you should have success then .	正如我們之前所說的 , 第二 , 成功的秘訣是金錢、對的人、對的市場條件 , 對吧 ? 你應該要成功 。
from the time tivo came out about eight or nine years ago to this current day , they are the single highestquality product on the market , hands down , there is no dispute .	從八、九年前 , tivo出版到現在 , 他們是市場上最高品質的產品 , 手下 , 沒有爭議 。
they were extremely wellfunded .	他們非常受歡迎 。
market conditions were fantastic .	市場條件很棒 。
i mean , we use tivo as verb .	我的意思是 , 我們把tivo當作動詞 。
i tivo stuff on my piece of junk time warner dvr all the time .	我常在垃圾時間華納dvr上講tivo東西 。
but tivo's a commercial failure .	但tivo是個商業上的失敗 。
they've never made money .	他們從來沒有賺到錢 。
and when they went ipo , their stock was at about 30 or 40 dollars and then plummeted , and it's never traded above 10 .	當他們到ipo時 , 他們的股票大約是30或40美元 , 然後被壓倒 , 結果從來沒有在10美元以上交易 。
in fact , i don't think it's even traded above six , except for a couple of little spikes .	事實上 , 我不認為它在六歲以上的交易 , 除了幾條小插頭之外 。
because you see , when tivo launched their product they told us all what they had .	因為你看 , 當tivo推出他們的產品時 , 他們告訴我們他們擁有的一切 。
they said , " we have a product that pauses live tv , skips commercials , rewinds live tv and memorizes your viewing habits without you even asking . "	他們說: 「 我們有一個可以暫停現場電視的產品 , 跳過商業廣告 , 回收現場的電視節目 , 記住你的觀看習慣 , 你甚至不會問你 。 」
and the cynical majority said , " we don't believe you .	憤世嫉俗大多說: 「 我們不相信你 。
we don't need it . we don't like it .	我們不需要它 。 我們不喜歡它 。
you're scaring us . "	你害怕我們 。 」
what if they had said , " if you're the kind of person who likes to have total control over every aspect of your life , boy , do we have a product for you .	如果他們說: 「 如果你是那種喜歡全面控制的人 , 天哪 , 我們有產品給你 。
it pauses live tv , skips commercials , memorizes your viewing habits , etc . , etc . "	它會暫停現場電視、跳過廣告 , 記住你的觀看習慣等等 。 」
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it , and what you do simply serves as the proof of what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 , 而你所做的就是證明你所相信的 。
now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我給你們一個成功的例子 , 說明創新的散播法則 。
in the summer of 1963 , 250 , 000 people showed up on the mall in washington to hear dr . king speak .	1963年夏天 , 有25萬人出現在華盛頓的購物中心 , 去聽金恩博士演講 。
they sent out no invitations , and there was no website to check the date .	他們沒有發出任何邀請 , 沒有網站來檢查日期 。
how do you do that ?	你該怎麼做 ?
well , dr . king wasn't the only man in america who was a great orator .	嗯 , 金恩博士不是美國唯一一個偉大的演說家 。
he wasn't the only man in america who suffered in a precivil rights america .	他不是唯一在美國受過早期權利的男人 。
in fact , some of his ideas were bad .	事實上 , 他的一些想法很糟 。
but he had a gift .	但他有個禮物 。
he didn't go around telling people what needed to change in america .	他沒有到處告訴人們 , 美國需要什麼改變 。
he went around and told people what he believed .	他四處走動 , 告訴人們他所相信的 。
" i believe , i believe , i believe , " he told people .	「 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 。 」 他告訴人們 。
and people who believed what he believed took his cause , and they made it their own , and they told people .	相信他所相信的原因的人 , 讓他成為自己 , 告訴人們 。
and some of those people created structures to get the word out to even more people .	其中一些人創造了結構 , 讓更多人知道這個詞 。
and lo and behold , 250 , 000 people showed up on the right day at the right time to hear him speak .	有25萬人在右天出現在對的時間聽他說話 。
how many of them showed up for him ?	有多少人來找他 ?
they showed up for themselves .	他們為自己出席 。
it's what they believed about america that got them to travel in a bus for eight hours to stand in the sun in washington in the middle of august .	這是他們相信的美國 , 讓他們在一輛巴士旅行八小時 , 站在華盛頓的太陽中 , 站在八月中期 。
it's what they believed , and it wasn't about black versus white: 25 percent of the audience was white .	這是他們所相信的 , 重點不是黑人和白人:25%的觀眾是白人 。
dr . king believed that there are two types of laws in this world: those that are made by a higher authority and those that are made by man .	金恩博士相信世上有兩種法律:由更高的權威和由人類所組成的法律 。
and not until all the laws that are made by man are consistent with the laws that are made by the higher authority will we live in a just world .	除非所有由人類所制定的法律都和較高權威制定的法律一致 , 否則我們生活在一個正義的世界裡 。
it just so happened that the civil rights movement was the perfect thing to help him bring his cause to life .	剛好 , 民權運動是最完美的 , 協助他把他的成因帶到生命中 。
we followed , not for him , but for ourselves .	我們跟著 , 不是為了他 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and , by the way , he gave the " i have a dream " speech , not the " i have a plan " speech .	順帶一提 , 他給了 「 我有一個夢想 」 演講 , 而不是 「 我有一個計畫 」 。
listen to politicians now , with their comprehensive 12point plans .	現在 , 聽政治人物們 , 他們的全面12點計畫 。
they're not inspiring anybody .	他們沒有啟發任何人 。
because there are leaders and there are those who lead .	因為有領袖 , 有領袖 。
leaders hold a position of power or authority , but those who lead inspire us .	領導者有權力或權威的位置 , 但那些領導人激勵我們的人 。
whether they're individuals or organizations , we follow those who lead , not because we have to , but because we want to .	不論是個人或組織 , 我們遵循領導者 , 不是因為我們需要 , 而是因為我們想要 。
we follow those who lead , not for them , but for ourselves .	我們追隨那些領導者 , 不是為了他們 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and it's those who start with " why " that have the ability to inspire those around them or find others who inspire them .	那些從 「 為什麼 」 開始的人 , 他們有能力激發他們周圍的人 , 或找到啟發他們的人 。
how do you remember where you parked your car ? how do you know if you're moving in the right direction ? neuroscientist neil burgess studies the neural mechanisms that map the space around us , and how they link to memory and imagination .	你怎麼記得你在哪裡停車 ? 你怎麼知道你是不是在正確的方向移動 ? 神經科學家尼爾•尼爾研究我們周圍的神經機制 , 以及它們如何連結到記憶和想像力 。
brain , cognitive science , exploration , neuroscience , science	大腦、認知科學、探索、神經科學、科學、科學、科學、科學、
neil burgess: how your brain tells you where you are	尼爾•布爾斯:你的大腦如何告訴你你身在何處 。
when we park in a big parking lot , how do we remember where we parked our car ?	當我們停在一個大停車場時 , 我們要如何記住我們停車的位置 ?
here's the problem facing homer .	問題來了荷馬 。
and we're going to try to understand what's happening in his brain .	我們要試著了解他的大腦到底發生了什麼事 。
so we'll start with the hippocampus , shown in yellow , which is the organ of memory .	我們先從海馬體開始 , 黃色標示的是記憶的器官 。
if you have damage there , like in alzheimer's , you can't remember things including where you parked your car .	如果你在那裡受損 , 就像阿茲海默症一樣 , 你無法記住你停車的地方 。
it's named after latin for " seahorse , " which it resembles .	它的名字是拉丁文 , 名字是 「 海馬 」 , 相似之處 。
and like the rest of the brain , it's made of neurons .	就像大腦的其他部分 , 它是由神經元組成的 。
so the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it .	人類的大腦有大約一千億個神經元 。
and the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other .	神經元互相溝通 , 藉由發送小脈衝或脈衝電流 , 透過連結彼此 。
the hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells , which are very densely interconnected .	海馬體是由兩片細胞組成 , 它們非常緊密相互連結 。
and scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food .	科學家開始了解空間記憶是如何運作的 , 藉由記錄老鼠在覓食或探索環境中尋找食物的個別神經元 。
so we're going to imagine we're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here .	想像一下 , 我們正在紀錄這隻老鼠的海馬體中的一個神經元 。
and when it fires a little spike of electricity , there's going to be a red dot and a click .	當它發射電流時 , 會有一個紅點和點擊 。
so what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment .	我們看到的是 , 這個神經元知道當老鼠在牠的環境中進入一個特定位置 。
and it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike .	大腦其他部位會透過發送電衝刺來傳遞訊號 。
so we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal's location .	所以我們可以顯示神經元的激發率 , 作為動物所在位置的函數 。
and if we record from lots of different neurons , we'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment , like in this square box shown here .	如果我們從不同神經元中記錄下來 , 我們會發現 , 當動物在其環境的不同部分時 , 不同的神經元會發射 , 就像這個正方形的盒子 。
so together they form a map for the rest of the brain , telling the brain continually , " where am i now within my environment ? "	所以他們一起組成一張地圖 , 讓大腦不斷地告訴大腦: 「 我現在在我的環境裡 ? 」
place cells are also being recorded in humans .	地點細胞也被記錄在人類身上 。
so epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring .	所以癲癇患者有時需要腦部監控的電活動 。
and some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town .	有些病人在玩電玩遊戲 , 他們開車繞著一個小鎮 。
and place cells in their hippocampi would fire , become active , start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town .	海馬體內的細胞會被激發 , 會被活躍起來 , 每當他們開車經過一個特定的地點 , 就會開始發送電脈衝 。
so how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment ?	那麼 , 一個位置細胞怎麼知道老鼠或人的環境在哪裡 ?
well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important .	這兩個細胞告訴我們環境的界線特別重要 。
so the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat's in .	最上方的那隻 , 像是在老鼠的箱子牆上發射的中間 。
and when you expand the box , the firing location expands .	當你擴張盒子時 , 發射地點會擴張 。
the one below likes to fire whenever there's a wall close by to the south .	下面的一面 , 每當有一面牆接近南邊時 , 就會有一面牆 。
and if you put another wall inside the box , then the cell fires in both place wherever there's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box .	如果你把另一面牆放在盒子裡 , 細胞會在兩個地方被激發 , 不論在哪裡 , 都會有一面牆到南邊 , 當動物在盒子裡探索時 。
so this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you extended buildings and so on is particularly important for the hippocampus .	所以這預測了 , 感測到你周圍的邊界方向和邊界方向 , 對海馬迴來說 , 尤其重要 。
and indeed , on the inputs to the hippocampus , cells are found which project into the hippocampus , which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it's exploring around .	的確 , 在海馬迴的輸入中 , 細胞會被發現 , 在海馬迴中 , 它會對偵測邊界或邊緣的反應 , 特別是從老鼠或老鼠的方向 , 來偵測 。
so the cell on the left , you can see , it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east , whether it's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table , which the animals are running around .	左邊的細胞 , 你可以看到 , 當動物靠近一面牆 , 或東邊的邊界時 , 不論是方形的邊緣 , 或圓形的牆 , 或是圓形的邊緣 , 甚至是桌子的邊緣 , 動物會跑來跑去 。
and the cell on the right there fires whenever there's a boundary to the south , whether it's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart .	右邊的細胞會發射當南邊有邊界時 , 不論是桌邊的邊緣 , 或牆壁 , 甚至是兩張桌子之間的落差 。
so that's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it's exploring around .	因此 , 我們認為位置細胞會決定動物在哪裡探索 。
we can also test where we think objects are , like this goal flag , in simple environments or indeed , where your car would be .	我們也能測試我們認為物體在哪裡 , 比如這個目標旗幟 , 在簡單的環境中 , 或你的汽車在哪裡 。
so we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember .	所以 , 我們可以讓人們探索一個環境 , 看到他們必須記得的位置 。
and then , if we put them back in the environment , generally they're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was .	接著 , 如果我們把它們放回環境中 , 通常它們很擅長把標記放在他們認為旗幟或車子的地方 。
but on some trials , we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell .	但在一些試驗中 , 我們可以改變環境的形狀和尺寸 , 就像我們用位置細胞一樣 。
in that case , we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment .	在那個例子中 , 我們可以看到他們認為旗幟在哪裡被改變 , 因為你如何改變環境的形狀和尺寸 。
and what you see , for example , if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment , and then if you ask people where it was , but you've made the environment bigger , where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out .	舉例來說 , 舉例來說 , 如果旗幟在一個小方形的環境中 , 然後如果你問別人它在哪裡 , 但你讓環境變得更大 , 他們認為旗幟已經被伸展到完全相同的地方 , 位置細胞發射出來 。
it's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location , and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern .	彷彿你還記得旗幟的位置 , 藉由儲存你位置細胞的位置 , 這樣你就可以回歸到那個位置 , 這樣你就可以最符合你位置細胞的激發模式 。
that guides you back to the location that you want to remember .	那引導你回到你想要記得的地點 。
but we also know where we are through movement .	但我們也知道我們在哪裡進行動作 。
so if we take some outbound path perhaps we park and we wander off we know because our own movements , which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back .	所以 , 如果我們採取一些外在的路徑 , 也許我們停了一下 , 我們就會知道 , 因為我們自己的動作 , 我們可以整合這條路徑 , 大約是前進的方向 。
and place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell .	位置細胞也得到這種整合路徑 , 來自一種叫做網格細胞的細胞 。
now grid cells are found , again , on the inputs to the hippocampus , and they're a bit like place cells .	網格細胞在海馬體輸入的輸入中 , 它們有點像位置細胞 。
but now as the rat explores around , each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid .	但當老鼠四處探索時 , 每一個細胞都會在一系列不同的地點在整個環境中發射 , 以驚人的三角形格子在整個環境中發射 。
and if you record from several grid cells shown here in different colors each one has a gridlike firing pattern across the environment , and each cell's gridlike firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells .	如果你從不同顏色的數個網格細胞中記錄 , 每個圖案都有類似發射的圖案 , 每個細胞的格狀圖案都和其他細胞有稍微相似 。
so the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one .	所以這個網格上的紅色部份和綠色的這個 , 和這個上面的藍色 。
so together , it's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you'd find on a map , but using triangles .	所以 , 這就像老鼠可以把一個虛擬的網格放到整個環境中 , 有點像你在地圖上看到的緯度和長度線 , 但用三角形 。
and as it moves around , the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is , so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment .	當它移動時 , 電活動可以從其中一個細胞傳遞到下一個細胞 , 來追蹤它的位置 , 這樣它就可以利用它自己的動作來知道它的環境在哪裡 。
do people have grid cells ?	人們有網格細胞嗎 ?
well because all of the gridlike firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry , the same orientations of grid , shown in orange here , it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between .	由於所有類似網格激發的模式 , 都有相同的對稱軸 , 相同的格子位置 , 在橘色的位置 , 這意味著 , 大腦中所有網格細胞的活動都應該根據這六個方向進行改變 , 或在六個方向之間進行 。
so we can put people in an mri scanner and have them do a little video game like the one i showed you and look for this signal .	所以我們可以把人放進核磁共振掃描儀 , 讓他們做個電玩遊戲 , 像我給你們看的一樣 , 尋找這個信號 。
and indeed , you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex , which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats .	的確 , 你確實在人類的腦皮層中看到了網格細胞 , 和老鼠的腦部一樣 。
so back to homer .	回到荷馬 。
he's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked .	他可能還記得他的車在距離和方向的哪裡 , 可以在他停車的地方延伸建築和邊界 。
and that would be represented by the firing of boundarydetecting cells .	可以用邊界偵測細胞的激發來呈現 。
he's also remembering the path he took out of the car park , which would be represented in the firing of grid cells .	他還記得他從汽車公園中走出來的路徑 , 在格子細胞激發的路上 。
now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire .	這兩種細胞都可以讓位置細胞發射 。
and he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car .	他可以回到他所在的位置 , 藉由移動的位置 , 找到最好的位置 , 符合他目前大腦中的位置細胞的發射模式 , 以他停車的位置 。
and that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car's actually there .	這引導他回到視覺暗示的位置 , 像他的車到底是不是真的在那裡 。
maybe it's been towed .	也許是被綁架了 。
but he knows where it was , so he knows to go and get it .	但他知道它在哪裡 , 所以他知道要去拿它 。
so beyond spatial memory , if we look for this gridlike firing pattern throughout the whole brain , we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks , like remembering the last time you went to a wedding , for example .	所以 , 除了空間記憶之外 , 如果我們在整個大腦中尋找類似網狀激發的模式 , 我們會在一系列的地點中看到 , 當我們在做各種自傳記憶任務時 , 都會活躍起來 , 比如 , 記得你上次去婚禮的時候 , 例如 。
so it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene , at least , of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them .	所以 , 我們身邊的空間 , 神經機制也被用來產生視覺影像 , 這樣我們才能重現空間的場景 , 至少 , 當我們想要想像它們時 , 發生在我們身上的事件 。
so if this was happening , your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint .	所以 , 如果這發生了 , 你的記憶可以從細胞的相互作用中啟動 , 然後透過這些密集的連結 , 重新啟動邊界細胞 , 來創造你觀點周圍的空間結構 。
and grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space .	網格細胞可以在這個空間中移動這個視野 。
another kind of cell , head direction cells , which i didn't mention yet , they fire like a compass according to which way you're facing .	另一種我還沒提到的細胞頭向細胞 , 根據你面前的哪種方式 , 它們就像是羅盤 。
they could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery , so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding , for example .	他們可以定義你想要創造視覺圖像的視覺方向 , 例如 , 當你在這次婚禮時 , 想像發生了什麼事 。
so this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains .	這只是一個新時代的一個例子 , 其實是在認知神經科學中 , 我們開始了解心理過程 , 例如你如何記憶、想像 , 或甚至是以數十億個獨立的神經元來思考 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
imagine a global security driven by collaboration among agencies , government , the private sector and the public . that's not just the distant hope of opensource fans , it's the vision of james stavridis , the supreme commander of nato , who shares vivid moments from recent military history to explain why security of the future should be built with bridges rather than walls .	想像一下 , 由機構、政府、私營部門和大眾合作驅動的全球安全性 。 這不僅僅是開放式粉絲的遙遠期希望 , 也是納米斯•斯特里迪迪斯的願景 , 納斯托的最高指揮官 , 他在近期的軍事史中共享過的危險時刻 , 來解釋為何未來的安全應該用橋樑建造 , 而不是牆壁 。
collaboration , global issues , opensource , peace , politics , social media , violence , war	合作、全球議題、開放、和平、政治、社交媒體、暴力、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、
james stavridis: how nato's supreme commander thinks about global security	詹姆斯•斯特瓦里迪斯:納多的最高指揮官如何看待全球安全問題 ?
i'm gonna talk a little bit about opensource security , because we've got to get better at security in this 21st century .	我會談到開放資源安全 , 因為在21世紀 , 我們必須要更安全 。
let me start by saying , let's look back to the 20th century , and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us .	讓我先回顧二十世紀 , 看看這個安全是如何運作的 。
this is verdun , a battlefield in france just north of the nato headquarters in belgium .	這是verdun , 一個在法國的戰場 , 位在比利時總部的北方 。
at verdun , in 1916 , over a 300day period , 700 , 000 people were killed , so about 2 , 000 a day .	1916年 , 在verdun , 超過三百天 , 七十萬人被殺 , 每天大約兩千人 。
if you roll it forward 20thcentury security into the second world war , you see the battle of stalingrad , 300 days , 2 million people killed .	如果你向前推進20世紀的安全性 , 進入第二次世界大戰 , 你會看到史達林格的戰役 , 300天 , 2百萬人死亡 。
we go into the cold war , and we continue to try and build walls .	我們進入冷戰 , 我們繼續建造牆壁 。
we go from the trench warfare of the first world war to the maginot line of the second world war , and then we go into the cold war , the iron curtain , the berlin wall .	我們從第一次世界大戰的戰線轉變成第二次世界大戰的惡性線 , 然後我們進入冷戰 , 鐵幕 , 柏林牆 。
my thesis for us today is , instead of building walls to create security , we need to build bridges .	我今天的論點是 , 與其建造牆壁來創造安全 , 我們需要建造橋樑 。
this is a famous bridge in europe .	這是一座歐洲著名的橋 。
it's the bridge over the drina river , the subject of a novel by ivo andrić , and it talks about how , in that very troubled part of europe and the balkans , over time there's been enormous building of walls .	它是德萊納河的橋樑 , ivo和ri奇的小說主題 , 它談到如何在歐洲和巴爾幹半島的一部分 , 長久以來 , 已經有了巨大的牆 。
more recently , in the last decade , we begin to see these communities start , hesitatingly , to come together .	最近 , 在過去十年 , 我們開始看到這些社區開始 , 猶豫地 , 聚在一起 。
i would argue , again , opensource security is about connecting the international , the interagency , the privatepublic , and lashing it together with strategic communication , largely in social networks .	我會說 , 開放式安全是要連結國際、國際、私人公共事務 , 並將它與戰略通訊聯繫在一起 , 主要是在社交網路上 。
so let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that , because our global commons is under attack in a variety of ways , and none of the sources of threat to the global commons will be solved by building walls .	讓我來談談為什麼我們需要這樣做 , 因為我們的全球公有物受到各種不同方式的攻擊 , 而全球公有物的來源都不會受到建築物的威脅 。
now , i'm a sailor , obviously .	很顯然 , 我是個水手 。
this is a ship , a liner , clipping through the indian ocean .	這是一艘船 , 一條線 , 穿過印度洋 。
what's wrong with this picture ?	這張照片有什麼問題 ?
it's got concertina wire along the sides of it .	它的旁邊有康蒂娜電線 。
that's to prevent pirates from attacking it .	那就是防止海盜攻擊它 。
piracy is a very active threat today around the world . this is in the indian ocean .	海盜是現今世界上非常活躍的威脅 。 這是在印度洋 。
piracy is also very active in the strait of malacca .	盜版在馬拉卡的草地上也很活躍 。
it's active in the gulf of guinea .	它活躍在幾內亞灣 。
we see it in the caribbean .	我們在加勒比海看到了 。
it's a $10billionayear discontinuity in the global transport system .	它是全球交通系統中十億美金的不連續性 。
last year , at this time , there were 20 vessels , 500 mariners held hostage .	去年 , 在這個時候 , 有20艘船 , 500名陸軍陸軍陸戰隊 。
this is an attack on the global commons .	這是全球公有物的攻擊 。
we need to think about how to address it .	我們需要思考如何處理它 。
let's shift to a different kind of sea , the cyber sea .	讓我們轉移到另一種海洋 , 網絡海 。
here are photographs of two young men .	這是兩個年輕人的照片 。
at the moment , they're incarcerated .	目前 , 他們被監禁了 。
they conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars .	他們做了一張信用卡詐欺 , 把他們淨化超過一百億美金 。
this is part of cybercrime which is a $2trillionayear discontinuity in the global economy .	這是網路犯罪的一部分 , 它是全球經濟的2兆美元不連續性 。
two trillion a year .	一年兩兆 。
that's just under the gdp of great britain .	這只是英國的國內生產總值 。
so this cyber sea , which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness , is very much under threat as well .	我們所知的網路海是極為激進的開放最基本的一部分也受到了威脅 。
another thing i worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking , by the movement of narcotics , opium , here coming out of afghanistan through europe over to the united states .	在全球公有物中 , 我擔心的另一件事 , 是販賣所帶來的威脅 , 由毒品、鴉片的運動 , 從阿富汗到歐洲的阿富汗到美國 。
we worry about cocaine coming from the andean ridge north .	我們擔心從安地里北部來的古柯鹼 。
we worry about the movement of illegal weapons and trafficking . above all , perhaps , we worry about human trafficking , and the awful cost of it .	我們擔心非法武器和販賣 。 最重要的是 , 我們擔心人口販賣 , 以及它的損失 。
trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons .	人口販賣主要在海上移動 , 但在全球公有物的其他部分 。
this is a photograph , and i wish i could tell you that this is a very hightech piece of us navy gear that we're using to stop the trafficking .	這是一張照片 , 我希望我能告訴你們 , 這是一塊非常高科技的美國海軍裝備 , 用來阻止人口販運 。
the bad news is , this is a semisubmersible run by drug cartels .	壞消息是 , 這是由毒品汽車所經營的半合物經營 。
it was built in the jungles of south america .	它建在南美的叢林裡 。
we caught it with that lowtech raft — — and it was carrying six tons of cocaine .	我們用那個低科技的木筏捕捉到它 , 它帶著六噸的古柯鹼 。
crew of four . sophisticated communications sweep .	四個組員 , 精密的溝通掃了 。
this kind of trafficking , in narcotics , in humans , in weapons , god forbid , in weapons of mass destruction , is part of the threat to the global commons .	這種販賣、毒品、人體、武器、上帝禁止大規模毀滅的武器 , 是對全球公有物的威脅之一 。
and let's pull it together in afghanistan today .	咱們現在在阿富汗將它拉在一起 。
this is a field of poppies in afghanistan .	這是阿富汗的popps場 。
eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppy , opium and heroin , comes out of afghanistan .	世界上80%到90%的糞便、鴉片和海洛因 , 來自阿富汗 。
we also see there , of course , terrorism .	當然 , 我們也看到恐怖主義 。
this is where al qaeda is staged from .	這是基地組織的階段 。
we also see a very strong insurgency embedded there .	我們也看到一個非常強烈的迫切性 。
so this terrorism concern is also part of the global commons , and what we must address .	所以 , 恐怖主義也是全球公有物的一部分 , 我們必須處理的 。
so here we are , 21st century .	所以 , 我們現在是21世紀 。
we know our 20thcentury tools are not going to work .	我們知道20世紀的工具行不通 。
what should we do ?	我們該怎麼做 ?
i would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我主張 , 我們不會只從槍枝的桶子中提供安全性 。
we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我們不會只從槍枝的桶子裡提供安全 。
we will need the application of military force .	我們需要軍事力量的應用 。
when we do it , we must do it well , and competently .	當我們這樣做時 , 我們必須做得很好 , 並且有能力 。
but my thesis is , opensource security is about international , interagency , privatepublic connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the internet .	但我的論點是 , 開放式安全是關於國際、國際化、私人的連結 , 透過網路上策略通訊的概念 , 把彼此拉在一起 。
let me give you a couple of examples of how this works in a positive way .	讓我舉幾個例子說明這如何用正面的方式運作 。
this is afghanistan . these are afghan soldiers .	這是阿富汗 。 這些是阿富汗士兵 。
they are all holding books .	他們都拿著書 。
you should say , " that's odd . i thought i read that this demographic , young men and women in their 20s and 30s , is largely illiterate in afghanistan . "	你應該說: 「 這很奇怪 。 我以為我讀到這個人口統計 , 二十三十多歲的年輕男女 , 在阿富汗大多是文盲 。 」
you would be correct .	你會是對的 。
eightyfive percent cannot read when they enter the security forces of afghanistan .	當他們進入阿富汗安全部隊時 , 85%的人看不到 。
why ? because the taliban withheld education during the period of time in which these men and women would have learned to read .	為什麼 ? 因為塔利班早在這些男人和女人的時期就學會閱讀 。
so the question is , so , why are they all standing there holding books ?	所以問題是 , 為什麼他們都站在那裡拿著書 ?
the answer is , we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by nato in partnership with private sector entities , in partnership with development agencies .	答案是 , 我們教導他們在識字課程中閱讀 , 由nato和私人企業團體合作 , 與發展機構合作 。
we've taught well over 200 , 000 afghan security forces to read and write at a basic level .	我們教導了超過二十萬阿富汗安全部隊 , 以基本的層面來閱讀和寫 。
when you can read and write in afghanistan , you will typically put a pen in your pocket .	當你在阿富汗讀和寫時 , 你通常會把一支筆放在口袋裡 。
at the ceremonies , when these young men and women graduate , they take that pen with great pride , and put it in their pocket .	在典禮上 , 當這些年輕男女畢業時 , 他們用很棒的驕傲把筆放在口袋裡 。
this is bringing together international — there are 50 nations involved in this mission — interagency — these development agencies — and privatepublic , to take on this kind of security .	這將國際組織起來 , 有五十個國家參與這項任務 , 國際化 , 這些發展機構和私人公共事務 , 來採取這種安全 。
now , we are also teaching them combat skills , of course , but i would argue , opensource security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect .	當然 , 我們也教導他們對抗技能 , 但我認為 , 開放資源安全意味著連結 , 創造出更長的安全效應 。
this is a us navy warship .	這是美國海軍戰艦 。
it's called the comfort .	它叫做舒適感 。
there's a sister ship called the mercy .	有一艘姐妹船叫做慈悲 。
they are hospital ships .	他們是醫院船 。
this one , the comfort , operates throughout the caribbean and the coast of south america conducting patient treatments .	這個 , 舒適的 , 在加勒比海和南美海岸進行病人的治療 。
on a typical cruise , they'll do 400 , 000 patient treatments .	一般來說 , 他們會做四十萬個病人治療 。
it is crewed not strictly by military but by a combination of humanitarian organizations: operation hope , project smile .	並非由軍隊組成 , 而是由人道主義組織組成:營運希望 , 計畫微笑 。
other organizations send volunteers .	其他組織會派出義工 。
interagency physicians come out .	內部醫師出櫃了 。
they're all part of this .	他們都是這方面的一部分 。
to give you one example of the impact this can have , this little boy , eight years old , walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the comfort .	給你們舉個例子 , 這個小男孩 , 八歲 , 跟著他的母親走兩天來到舒適的眼科診所 。
when he was fitted , over his extremely myopic eyes , he suddenly looked up and said , " mama , veo el mundo . "	當他適應時 , 在他的視野中 , 他突然抬頭說: 「 媽媽 , 維埃爾米羅 。 」
" mom , i see the world . "	「 媽媽 , 我看到世界 。 」
multiply this by 400 , 000 patient treatments , this privatepublic collaboration with security forces , and you begin to see the power of creating security in a very different way .	將這個數乘以四十萬名病人的治療 , 這個私人的合作與安全部隊合作 , 你開始以非常不同的角度來看創造安全的力量 。
here you see baseball players .	這裡你看到棒球選手 。
can you pick out the two us army soldiers in this photograph ?	你能在這張照片中挑出兩位美國軍人士兵嗎 ?
they are the two young men on either side of these young boys . this is part of a series of baseball clinics , where we have explored collaboration between major league baseball , the department of state , who sets up the diplomatic piece of this , military baseball players , who are real soldiers with real skills but participate in this mission , and they put on clinics throughout latin america and the caribbean , in honduras , in nicaragua , in all of the central american and caribbean nations where baseball is so popular , and it creates security .	他們是這兩位小男孩的兩個年輕人 。 這是一系列棒球診所的一部分 , 我們在大聯盟棒球、國家部門 , 他們成立了軍事棒球員 , 他們是真正的士兵 , 但他們參與了這個任務 , 他們在整個南美和加勒比海 , 在全美 , 全美 , 全美 , 和加勒比的巴黎 , 創造了一套外交官 。
it shows role models to young men and women about fitness and about life that i would argue help create security for us .	它向年輕男性和女性表達角色的典範 , 以及關於健身和生活的典範 , 我會說 , 幫助我們創造安全 。
another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief .	這個合作關係的另一個面向是災難救援 。
this is a us air force helicopter participating after the tsunami in 2004 which killed 250 , 000 people .	這是美國空軍直升機在2004年海嘯攻擊後 , 殺死了25萬人 。
in each of these major disasters — the tsunami in 2004 , 250 , 000 dead , the kashmiri earthquake in pakistan , 2005 , 85 , 000 dead , the haitian earthquake , about 300 , 000 dead , more recently the awful earthquaketsunami combination which struck japan and its nuclear industry — in all of these instances , we see partnerships between international actors , interagency , privatepublic working with security forces to respond to this kind of natural disaster .	在這些重大災難中 , 海嘯在2004年、25萬人死亡 , 2005年巴基斯坦的kashmiri地震 , 8萬5千人死亡 , 海地地地地震 , 最近發生了三十萬人的地震組合 , 造成日本和核子產業的組合 , 在所有這些例子中 , 我們看到了國際間的合作夥伴 , 和安全的合作關係 。
so these are examples of this idea of opensource security .	這些都是開放資源的例子 。
we tie it together , increasingly , by doing things like this .	我們將它綁在一起 , 漸漸地 , 做像這樣的事 。
now , you're looking at this thinking , " ah , admiral , these must be sea lanes of communication , or these might be fiber optic cables . "	現在 , 你看著這個想法: 「 啊 , 行話 , 這些必定是溝通的海道 , 或這些可能是光纖電纜 。 」
no . this is a graphic of the world according to twitter .	不 , 這是推特的一張圖 。
purple are tweets . green are geolocation .	紫色是推特 , 綠色是地理分配 。
white is the synthesis .	白色是合成 。
it's a perfect evocation of that great population survey , the six largest nations in the world in descending order: china , india , facebook , the united states , twitter and indonesia .	人口調查是完美的演化 , 世界上六個最大的國家以下降秩序:中國、印度、印度、臉書、美國、推特和印尼 。
why do we want to get in these nets ?	為什麼我們要進入這些蚊帳 ?
why do we want to be involved ?	我們為什麼要參與 ?
we talked earlier about the arab spring , and the power of all this .	我們先前談到阿拉伯之春 , 以及這一切的力量 。
i'll give you another example , and it's how you move this message .	我再舉另一個例子 , 就是你如何移動這個訊息 。
i gave a talk like this in london a while back about this point . i said , as i say to all of you , i'm on facebook . friend me .	我在倫敦做了這樣的演講 , 前一陣子我跟你們說 , 我在facebook , 朋友我 。
got a little laugh from the audience .	聽眾笑了一下 。
there was an article which was run by ap , on the wire .	有一篇文章是ap在電線上運作的 。
got picked up in two places in the world: finland and indonesia .	在世界上兩個地方被撿起來:芬蘭和印尼 。
the headline was: nato admiral needs friends .	標題是:納多需要朋友 。
and the story was a catalyst , and the next morning i had hundreds of facebook friend requests from indonesians and finns , mostly saying , " admiral , we heard you need a friend , and oh , by the way , what is nato ? "	這個故事是個催化劑 , 隔天早上我有數百個臉書朋友請求來自印尼人和芬蘭 , 大多是說: 「 阿米爾 , 我們聽說你需要一個朋友 , 喔 , 順便說一下 , 納多 ? 」
yeah , we laugh , but this is how we move the message , and moving that message is how we connect international , interagency , privatepublic , and these social nets to help create security .	是的 , 我們笑了 , 但這就是我們傳遞訊息的方式 , 轉動訊息是我們如何連結國際、國際、私人、以及這些社交網絡 , 來協助創造安全 。
now , let me hit a somber note .	現在 , 讓我按下一個明顯的音符 。
this is a photograph of a brave british soldier .	這是一張勇敢英國士兵的照片 。
he's in the scots guards .	他在蘇格蘭警衛中 。
he's standing the watch in helmand , in southern afghanistan .	他站在赫爾曼南部 , 在阿富汗南部 。
i put him here to remind us , i would not want anyone to leave the room thinking that we do not need capable , competent militaries who can create real military effect .	我把他放到這裡來提醒我們 , 我不希望有人離開房間 , 認為我們不需要有能力、有能力的軍隊 , 能夠創造出真正的軍事效應 。
that is the core of who we are and what we do , and we do it to protect freedom , freedom of speech , all the things we treasure in our societies .	那就是我們是誰的核心 , 我們這麼做 , 來保護言論自由、言論自由 , 所有我們在我們的社會中珍視的事 。
but , you know , life is not an onandoff switch .	但 , 你知道 , 人生不是一場大開關 。
you don't have to have a military that is either in hard combat or is in the barracks .	你不需要有一支軍隊 , 不論是硬戰 , 還是在巴拉克 。
i would argue life is a rheostat .	我認為生命是固定的 。
you have to dial it in , and as i think about how we create security in this 21st century , there will be times when we will apply hard power in true war and crisis , but there will be many instances , as we've talked about today , where our militaries can be part of creating 21stcentury security , international , interagency , privatepublic , connected with competent communication .	你必須將它撥進去 , 正如我所想 , 我們如何在21世紀創造安全 , 會有時候我們會用真正的戰爭和危機來使用硬實力 , 但還有很多例子 , 如我們今天所說 , 我們的軍隊可以成為21世紀安全、國際安全、私人公共、私人公共、私人溝通的一部分 。
i would close by saying that we heard earlier today about wikipedia . i use wikipedia all the time to look up facts , and as all of you appreciate , wikipedia is not created by 12 brilliant people locked in a room writing articles .	最後我會說我們今天早先聽到維基百科 。 我常用維基百科來查看事實 , 就像在座所有人都很感激 , 維基百科並不是由12位傑出的人鎖在房間寫文章中 。
wikipedia , every day , is tens of thousands of people inputting information , and every day millions of people withdrawing that information .	維基百科 , 每天都有數萬人在輸入信息 , 每天有數百萬人在記錄這些信息 。
it's a perfect image for the fundamental point that no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	對我們所有人而言 , 這是個完美的圖像 , 沒有一個人和所有人一起思考一樣聰明 。
no one person , no one alliance , no one nation , no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	沒有一個人 , 沒有一個聯盟 , 沒有一個國家 , 沒有一個人和我們所有人一起思考一樣聰明 。
the vision statement of wikipedia is very simple: a world in which every human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge .	維基百科的觀點非常簡單:一個每個人都可以自由地分享所有知識的世界 。
my thesis for you is that by combining international , interagency , privatepublic , strategic communication , together , in this 21st century , we can create the sum of all security .	我的論點是 , 把國際、國際、私人、策略通訊結合在一起 , 在21世紀 , 我們可以創造所有安全的總和 。
thank you very much . thank you . thank you .	非常謝謝 。 謝謝 。
