BLEU = 22.92 56.0/30.6/17.4/10.5 (BP = 0.968 ratio = 0.969 hyp_len = 107806 ref_len = 111282)
when you say she's a programmer , she did do some , but the real thing is to have said the future is going to be much , much more than this .	當你說她是程式設計師時 , 她做了一些事 , 但真正要說的是 , 未來會比這個還要多 。
now , a hundred years later , this guy comes along , alan turing , and in 1936 , and invents the computer all over again .	一百年後 , 這個傢伙出現了 , 艾倫•圖靈 , 1936年 , 發明了電腦 。
now , of course , babbage's machine was entirely mechanical .	當然 , babbage的機器完全是機械的 。
turing's machine was entirely theoretical .	圖靈的機器完全是理論的 。
both of these guys were coming from a mathematical perspective , but turing told us something very important .	兩者都來自數學觀點 , 但圖靈告訴我們一件非常重要的事 。
he laid down the mathematical foundations for computer science , and said , " it doesn't matter how you make a computer . "	他為電腦科學奠定了數學基礎 , 並說: 「 不管你怎麼製造電腦 。 」
it doesn't matter if your computer's mechanical , like babbage's was , or electronic , like computers are today , or perhaps in the future , cells , or , again , mechanical again , once we get into nanotechnology .	不管你的電腦是不是機械 , 像是babbage , 或電子 , 像現今的電腦 , 或未來 , 細胞 , 還是在機械式上 , 一旦我們進入奈米科技 。
we could go back to babbage's machine and just make it tiny . all those things are computers .	我們可以回到babbage的機器 , 把它做得很小 。 所有東西都是電腦 。
there is in a sense a computing essence .	在某種意義上 , 電腦是存在的 。
this is called the church–turing thesis .	這叫做教堂正在進行分析 。
and so suddenly , you get this link where you say this thing babbage had built really was a computer .	突然間 , 你就有了這個連結 , 你說這個東西babbage建了一台電腦 。
in fact , it was capable of doing everything we do today with computers , only really slowly .	事實上 , 它能夠用電腦來做我們現今所做的每件事 , 只有很慢 。
to give you an idea of how slowly , it had about 1k of memory .	為了讓各位知道 , 它的記憶有多慢 。
it used punch cards , which were being fed in , and it ran about 10 , 000 times slower the first zx81 .	它用打孔卡 , 被送進去 , 它跑了大約一萬倍 , 第一個zx81 。
it did have a ram pack .	它的確有拉姆包 。
you could add on a lot of extra memory if you wanted to .	如果你想要的話 , 你可以加入很多額外的記憶 。
so , where does that bring us today ?	所以 , 今天會帶我們到哪裡 ?
so there are plans .	這裡有計畫 。
over in swindon , the science museum archives , there are hundreds of plans and thousands of pages of notes written by charles babbage about this analytical engine .	在瑞典 , 科學博物館的檔案庫中有數以千計的計劃和數以千計的筆記 , 由查爾斯•巴比奇所寫的 。
one of those is a set of plans that we call plan 28 , and that is also the name of a charity that i started with doron swade , who was the curator of computing at the science museum , and also the person who drove the project to build a difference engine , and our plan is to build it .	其中一個是我們稱之為 「 規劃28 」 的一系列計畫 , 這也是我從多倫斯•瑞德開始的慈善機構 , 他是科學博物館的計算器 , 也是開工專案建造出差別引擎的人 , 我們的計畫就是建造它 。
here in south kensington , we will build the analytical engine .	在南肯辛頓 , 我們會建造分析引擎 。
the project has a number of parts to it .	這個專案有很多部件 。
one was the scanning of babbage's archive .	其中一個是babbage的檔案 。
that's been done . the second is now the study of all of those plans to determine what to build .	這已經完成了 。 第二個是這些計畫的研究 , 來決定要建造什麼 。
the third part is a computer simulation of that machine , and the last part is to physically build it at the science museum .	第三個部分是電腦模擬這個機器 , 最後一部分是在科學博物館建造它 。
when it's built , you'll finally be able to understand how a computer works , because rather than having a tiny chip in front of you , you've got to look at this humongous thing and say , " ah , i see the memory operating , i see the cpu operating , i hear it operating . i probably smell it operating . "	當它被建造出來時 , 你終於能夠了解電腦是如何運作的 , 因為在你面前的小晶片 , 你必須去看這個謙遜的東西 , 說: 「 啊 , 我看到記憶運作 , 我看到cpu運作 , 我聽見它運作 。 我可能聞過它正在運作 。 」
but in between that we're going to do a simulation .	但在這兩者之間 , 我們要做一個模擬 。
babbage himself wrote , he said , as soon as the analytical engine exists , it will surely guide the future course of science .	babbage自己寫信 , 他說 , 當分析引擎存在時 , 它肯定會引導未來的科學課程 。
of course , he never built it , because he was always fiddling with new plans , but when it did get built , of course , in the 1940s , everything changed .	當然 , 他從來沒有打造它 , 因為他總是在找新的計畫 , 但在1940年代 , 當然 , 一切都改變了 。
now , i'll just give you a little taste of what it looks like in motion with a video which shows just one part of the cpu mechanism working .	現在 , 我來給各位一些味道 , 用影片呈現出cpu機制運作的一部分 。
so this is just three sets of cogs , and it's going to add . this is the adding mechanism in action , so you imagine this gigantic machine .	這只是三組齒輪 , 它會加入 。 這是加強機制的動作 , 所以你想像一下這個巨大的機器 。
so , give me five years .	所以 , 給我五年 。
before the 2030s happen , we'll have it .	在2030年以前 , 我們將會有它 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
in this imagefilled talk , yann arthusbertrand displays his three most recent projects on humanity and our habitat stunning aerial photographs in his series " the earth from above , " personal interviews from around the globe featured in his web project " 6 billion others , " and his soontobereleased movie , " home , " which documents human impact on the environment through breathtaking video .	在這個影像的演說中 , 雅南•伯特蘭展示了他三個近期的項目 , 關於人性和我們的棲息地 , 在他的系列 「 地球上 」 的個人訪談 , 來自世界各地的個人訪談 , 在他的網路專案中 , 「 六十億人 」 , 以及他的 「 月亮的電影 」 , 《家 」 , 記錄了人類對環境的影響 。
art , climate change , environment , film , future , humanity , media , photography	藝術、氣候變遷、環境、電影、未來、人性、媒體、攝影、攝影 。
yann arthusbertrand captures fragile earth in wideangle	雅南.伯特蘭曾捕捉到很脆弱的地球 , 位在廣大的角度 , 形成了很脆弱的地球 。
i have a big impact on the planet to travel here by plane .	我對地球有很大的影響力 , 靠飛機來到這裡 。
i emitted , in the atmosphere , nine tons of co2 ; that is the weight of two elephants .	我在大氣中排放了九噸的二氧化碳 , 這是兩隻大象的重量 。
i came here to speak about ecology , and i emitted as much co2 as a frenchman in one year .	我來到這裡 , 談到生態學 , 一年內我排放的二氧化碳就和法國人一樣多 。
so what do i have to do ?	所以 , 我該怎麼做 ?
i have to kill a frenchman when i come back at home ?	當我回到家時 , 我必須殺死法國人嗎 ?
i have to do my carbon offset in another way , like i do every time .	我得要用另一種方式來抵銷碳 , 就像我每次都這樣做 。
in fact my work is to show our impact on our planet .	事實上 , 我的工作就是向我們展示我們對地球的影響 。
i'm going to show you some examples of the last pictures i've done in the last year .	我要給你們看一些我過去一年所拍攝的照片 。
alberta sand oil , a lot of pollution .	亞伯達石油 , 很多污染 。
you know the problem ; we don't want to believe what we know .	你知道問題 ; 我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
in alberta people work nonstop , 24 hours by seven to extract as much oil as they can .	在阿爾伯達人工作時 , 24小時 , 7個小時 , 盡可能地提取石油 。
we know about the end of oil .	我們知道石油的終點 。
oil sand is not a longterm solution .	石油沙不是長期的解決方案 。
but we use three times more oil than we find every year .	但我們每年用的石油比我們發現的還要多三倍 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
coral reef in new caledonia .	新卡里尼亞的珊瑚礁 。
100 percent of the coral may be wiped out before 2050 because of global warming .	珊瑚的百分之百可能在2050之前就被消滅 , 因為全球暖化 。
and you know how coral are very sensitive to temperature , and are very important for the biodiversity of the sea .	你知道珊瑚對溫度非常敏感 , 對海洋的生物多樣性很重要 。
north pole . i've done this picture last summer .	北極 , 我去年夏天拍了這張照片 。
it was impossible to do this picture 15 years ago .	15年前不可能拍攝這張照片 。
now there is a new way open between atlantic and pacific .	現在 , 大西洋和太平洋之間有一種新的開放方式 。
the thickness of the arctic decreased more than 40 percent since 1960 .	從1960年起 , 北極的厚度減少了超過40% 。
there is a new face of kilimanjaro without ice .	在沒有冰的情況下 , kilimanjaro有新的面孔 。
it lost 80 percent of its ice .	它失去了80%的冰 。
according to scientists , in 100 years all the mountain glacier will be gone .	根據科學家 , 一百年來 , 所有山上的冰河都會消失 。
glaciers are very important for the life on earth .	冰河對地球上生命是很重要的 。
like al gore told you , two billion people live on the water from the glacier of himalaya .	像高爾說過你 , 有二十億人住在喜馬拉雅冰河的水上 。
return of fish men .	回歸魚的男人 。
one fifth of human kind depend on fish to live .	五分之一的人類依賴魚生存 。
today now 70 percent of the fish stock are overexploited .	現今 , 70%的魚儲存被過度利用 。
according to fao , if we don't change our system of fishing the main sea resources will be gone in 2050 .	根據fao的說法 , 如果我們不改變我們在2050年捕撈主要海資源的系統 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
the beautiful picture , by [unclear] in africa .	非洲的美麗照片 。
one human of six have not enough to eat in the world .	六個人中就有一個人不夠吃東西 。
one billion people have not enough to eat .	十億人不夠吃 。
in africa , corn is one of the main foods in many places .	在非洲 , 玉米在許多地方都是主要的食物之一 。
here in america , 90 percent of the corn cultivated is used to feed animals or to do oil .	在美國 , 百分之九十的玉米培養被用來餵養動物 , 或做石油 。
palm tree plantation in borneo .	植物在婆羅的棕櫚樹 。
every year we lose 50 thousand square miles in deforestation .	每年我們損失了五萬平方英里的森林砍伐 。
refugee camp in darfur .	達佛的難民營 。
today we have 20 million refugees in the world .	現今 , 我們有兩千萬難民 。
according to the u . n . , we speak about 250 million refugees in 2050 .	根據聯合國 , 我們在2050年提到兩億五千萬難民 。
i always show my pictures in the street .	我總是在街上展示我的照片 。
we have done already 100 exhibitions in the cities .	我們已經在城市裡做了一百場展覽 。
but how to understand the world without the voice of people ?	但 , 若沒有人的聲音 , 要如何理解這個世界 ?
landscape was not enough .	地景不夠 。
it was obvious to me to do another work .	我很明顯要做另一個工作 。
i launched a project named six billion others .	我發起了一個名為六十億人的計畫 。
i sent around the world six cameramen asking the same question , the same crucial question , about life .	我在世界各地發送了六個攝影機問同樣的問題 , 同樣的重要的問題 , 關於生命 。
we have done five thousand interviews .	我們已經做了五千個訪談 。
i'm going to show you this .	我要給你們看這個 。
man: the most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life ?	男子:人生中最美麗的事 ?
it's when my dad told me , " here , i give you this girl as your fiance . "	我爸爸告訴我: 「 在這裡 , 我把這個女孩當作你的小說 。 」
woman: love ? love is nice if you can have it .	女子:愛 ? 愛是很棒的 。
second man: romeo and juliet , sassi and panno , dodi and diana , heer and ranjha , this is love ! third man: my greatest fear is . . .	第二個男人:羅密歐和茱麗葉、斯塔西、潘諾、多迪亞、多迪亞、希特和安娜 , 這是愛 ! 第三個男人:我最大的恐懼......
woman: you're asking me a hard question .	女子:你問我一個難題 。
fourth man: i live happily because what else should i do ?	第四個男人:我快樂地生活 , 因為我還該怎麼做 ?
fifth man: the first thing i remember . . .	第五個男人:我記得的第一件事......
fifth man: . . . from my childhood , fifth man: we were having fun , biking .	第五個男人:從我的童年 , 第五個男人:我們有樂趣 , 騎腳踏車 。
seventh man: we invented stories , we flew around the world , while remaining in our attic .	第七個男人:我們發明了故事 , 我們飛遍世界各地 , 還留在我們的閣樓裡 。
eighth man: i had a big laugh today .	第八個人:今天我笑得很大 。
ninth man: you see , family is . . . it's awful .	第九個男人:你看 , 家人是......很糟糕 。
10th man: in the word life , you have the life .	第十個男人:在人生中 , 你有生命 。
11th man: who am i ? isn't that the biggest question ?	第十一名男子:我是誰 ? 這不是最大的問題嗎 ?
12th man: if i was to go back to iraq and speak to the people , i'd have to bow down and kiss their feet .	第十二個男人:如果我回到伊拉克 , 和人民說話 , 我得向下弓 , 親吻他們的腳 。
just as that woman tried to kiss my feet when we were taking her sons .	正如那位女士試著親吻她兒子的時候 。
and i feel humbled by their strength .	我對他們的力量感到謙卑 。
and i will forever feel a need to make reparations to iraq .	我永遠會覺得需要一個對伊拉克的回應 。
second woman: dad , mom , i grew up .	第二個女人:爸爸 , 媽 , 我長大了 。
you shouldn't worry about me . dad doesn't need to go to work .	你不該擔心我 , 爸爸不需要去工作 。
my family . . . what can i say ?	我的家人......我能說什麼 ?
at the moment , my family is very poor , my life here in shenzhen is just about showing myself that i can earn more and to let my parents stay and have something to live on .	目前 , 我的家人非常貧窮 , 我住在深圳這裡的人生 , 只是為了讓自己知道我能賺更多 , 讓我的父母留下來 , 有些東西可以活下來 。
i don't want them to spend their whole lives in poverty .	我不希望他們一輩子都在貧窮生活 。
if someday i can achieve something , i would like to say thank you daddy and mommy .	如果有一天我能達成某樣東西 , 我想說謝謝你爸爸和媽咪 。
thank you for having fed me and raised me , and for making my life of today . thank you .	感謝你餵飽我 , 養育我 , 今天的人生 。 謝謝 。
13th man: after seven years now of being in a wheelchair , i've done more in life being in a chair than out of a chair .	第十三個男人:在輪椅上七年後 , 我在椅子上做了更多的事 , 比起坐在椅子上 。
i still surf . i sail the world . i freedive .	我仍然衝浪 , 我航行世界 , 自由 。
after many people said i couldn't do that .	很多人說我做不到 。
and i think that comes from connecting with nature , connecting with the energy of life , because we're all disabled in some way on the planet spiritually , mentally or physically .	我認為這來自於與大自然的連結 , 與生命的能量連結 , 因為在某種程度上 , 我們都是身心靈上、心理上或身體上的殘障人士 。
i got the easy part .	我得到了簡單的部分 。
14th man: let's say that you and me like each other .	第十四個男人:讓我們說你和我一樣 。
you come from elsewhere .	你來自其他地方 。
you don't know me . i don't know you .	你不知道我 , 我不知道你 。
we talk without lying .	我們沒有說謊 。
if i do like you , i give you one cow and many other things and we become friends .	如果我喜歡你 , 我會給你一頭牛和許多其他東西 , 我們會變成朋友 。
how can we make it all by ourselves ?	我們要如何讓自己全部都能做到 ?
yab: you can also go to the website , answer respond to the questions also .	雅:你也可以上網站 , 回答這個問題的答案 。
now i am going to speak to you about my movie .	現在我要跟各位談我的電影 。
for the last three years , i was shooting the earth for the movie .	過去三年 , 我為電影拍攝地球 。
the name of the movie is " home " " maison . "	電影的名字是 「 家 」 , 「 馬尼森 」 。
it is about the state of the planet .	它是關於地球的狀態 。
it's a fantastic story of life on the earth .	這是地球上生命最棒的故事 。
i'm very proud to show you the teaser .	我很驕傲地向你們展示這一茶壺 。
video: this earth is four and a half billion years old .	影片:地球已經四十五億年了 。
these plants , several hundred million years old .	這些植物 , 數億年的歷史 。
and we humans have been walking upright for only 200 thousand years .	我們人類已經走向直徑了20萬年 。
we've managed to adapt , and have conquered the whole planet .	我們成功適應了 , 征服了整個星球 。
for generations , we've been raising our children , not unlike millions of other species living beside us .	數世代以來 , 我們一直在養育我們的孩子 , 而不是其他數百萬種物種 , 生活在我們身邊 。
for the past 30 years i've been closely watching the earth and its dwellers from high up in the sky .	過去30年來 , 我很仔細地看著地球和它的居民從天空上升起 。
our life is tied to the wellbeing of our planet .	我們的生命與地球的幸福有關 。
we depend on water , forests , deserts , oceans .	我們依賴水、森林、沙漠、海洋 。
fishing , breeding , farming are still the world's foremost human occupations .	魚類、繁殖、農業 , 仍然是世界上最先進的人類職業 。
and what binds us together is far greater than what divides us .	把我們結合在一起 , 遠比我們分裂的更大 。
we all share the same need for the earth's gifts the same wish to rise above ourselves , and become better .	我們都一樣對地球的禮物有同樣的需求 , 希望在我們自己上升 , 變得更好 。
and yet we carry on raising walls to keep us apart .	然而 , 我們仍繼續提高牆壁 , 讓我們無法分開 。
today our greatest battle is to protect the natural offerings of our planet .	現今 , 我們最大的戰役是保護地球的天然資源 。
in less than 50 years we've altered it more thoroughly than in the entire history of mankind .	不到50年 , 我們徹底地改變它 , 比人類的整個歷史還要徹底 。
half of the world's forests have vanished .	世界上一半的森林都消失了 。
water resources are running low .	水資源在下降 。
intensive farming is depleting soils .	密集農業正在耗盡土壤 。
our energy sources are not sustainable .	我們的能量來源不是永續的 。
the climate is changing .	氣候正在改變 。
we are endangering ourselves .	我們正在危害自己 。
we're only trying to improve our lives .	我們只想改善我們的生活 。
but the wealth gaps are growing wider .	但財富差距越來越大 。
we haven't yet understood that we're going at a much faster pace than the planet can sustain .	我們尚未了解 , 我們要達到的速度比地球能維持的速度還要快 。
we know that solutions are available today .	我們知道 , 現今的解決方案是可用的 。
we all have the power to change this trend for the better .	我們都有改變這個趨勢的力量 。
so what are we waiting for ?	所以 , 我們在等什麼 ?
yab: luc besson is the producer of the movie .	雅:lucbeson是電影製作人 。
but it is not a normal movie .	但這不是正常的電影 。
the film is going to be distributed free .	電影將免費分散 。
this film has no copyright .	這部電影沒有版權 。
on the five of june , the environment day , everybody can download the movie on internet .	在六月五日 , 環境日 , 每個人都可以下載網路上的電影 。
the film is given for free to the distributor for tv and theater to show it the fifth of june .	電影可以免費提供給電視和劇場的傳播者 , 來展示它是六月五日 。
there is no business on this movie .	這部電影沒有商業權 。
it is also available for school , cities , ngos and you .	它也能提供學校、城市、非政府組織和你 。
we have to believe what we know .	我們必須相信我們所知道的 。
let me tell you something .	讓我告訴你們一件事 。
it's too late to be pessimistic really too late .	太遲到太悲觀了 。
we have all a part of the solutions .	我們都有解決方案的一部分 。
to finish , i would like to welcome the 4 , 700th baby born since the beginning of this talk .	最後 , 我想歡迎從這場演講開始 , 第四、七百個嬰兒出生 。
merci beaucoup . i love you .	我愛你 。
illustrious jugglers the raspyni brothers show off their uncanny balance , agility , coordination and willingness to sacrifice . now , if you'll just stand completely still . . .	不可思議的雜耍者拉斯皮尼兄弟們脫離了他們不可思議的平衡、優雅、協調 , 及願意犧牲的意願 。 現在 , 如果你只能完全站立......
collaboration , entertainment , humor , physics	合作 , 娛樂 , 幽默 , 物理學 。
the raspyni brothers juggle and jest	拉斯普尼兄弟會雜耍和噴射器 。
dan holzman: please throw out the beanbag chairs . here we go .	丹.霍爾曼:請把椅子丟出來 。 我們開始 。
barry friedman: there are all kinds of hightech chairs here today , but this is really , i think , when it reached its peak as far as ergonomics , comfort , design , flexibility . . .	今天這裡有各式各樣的高科技椅子 , 但我認為 , 當它達到高峰時 , 它的高峰時 , 舒適、設計、靈活性......
dh: now obviously , this is not something we do on our regular show ; it's something we just kind of learned for this , so we're going to try . but can we have some inspirational music for the beanbag chairs ?	很明顯地 , 這不是我們在常規節目上做的事 , 是我們剛才學到的 , 所以我們要嘗試 。 但是我們能否有一些靈感的音樂 , 來為班達成椅子上播放 ?
bf: nice show , daniel , nice show . you are the man !	bf:秀 , 丹尼爾 , 很好的節目 。 你是這個人 !
nice show . man , that was good !	很棒的節目 。 老兄 , 那很好 !
bf: you know , sometimes when people do those , they go all the way down .	布:你知道 , 有時候人們會這樣做 , 他們會一路走下去 。
you actually just did that .	你其實就是這樣做 。
that's the kind of extra effort that's gotten us where we are today . . .	這就是我們現在的狀況 。
dh: all right , let's show them something special .	好吧 , 我們來給他們看一些特別的東西 。
bf: . . . without a macarthur grant .	布:沒有麥克風格......
yeah , look at this . you know , all kinds of different . . .	是的 , 看看這個 。 你知道的 , 各式各樣......
ted is about invention , let's be honest . right ? dh: yeah , it is .	ted是關於發明的 , 老實說 , 對嗎 ? dh:是的 。
bf: last night , michael moschen showed some juggling props he has invented and working on .	布:昨晚 , 麥可•莫斯明展示了他發明的一些雜耍提案 。
right now , dan's going to show something he actually invented .	現在 , 丹將要展示他發明的東西 。
dh: a type of juggling i actually invented , right after i saw another juggler do it .	dh:我真的發明了一種雜耍 , 就在我看了另一位雜耍演員之後 。
dh: and this is a small excerpt from a longer piece .	這是一段更長的片段 。
folks , this is shaker cup juggling . it's not a showstopper but it certainly slows it down .	大家 , 這是粉碎杯雜耍 , 不是淋浴的人 , 還會放慢它 。
bf: oh yeah , it does .	喔 , 是的 。
bf: oh , daniel .	噢 , 丹尼爾 。
bf: ok . dh: oh ! all right .	好 , 沒問題 。
i'm now pushing my luck: i'm skipping right to six cups .	我現在正在推動我的運氣:我要跳到六個杯子 。
in order to do six cups , i must have perfect control over three with my right hand .	為了做六個杯子 , 我一定有完美的控制權 , 用我的右手來控制 。
bf: also three with his left .	bf:還有他左邊的三個 。
and now , all six cups . should i do it on the first try or should i miss once on purpose ?	現在 , 所有六個杯子 , 我該先試一下 , 還是要錯過一次 ?
bf: first try ? once on purpose ?	首先試看嗎 ? 一旦有目的 ?
dh: how about if i try first and then decide ?	那我要怎麼做才能決定呢 ?
bf: good idea . let's leave that . we'll leave that door open .	布:好主意 。 離開吧 。 我們把那扇門打開 。
dh: he's looking at me .	他看著我 。
bf: that's all right , he does that . all right .	沒錯 , 他這樣做 。 好 。
dh: oh ! it's time for richard's help .	嗯 , 該是理查的幫助的時候了 。
oh , good . all right .	喔 , 很好 。 好 。
bf: you know , over the years , every year at the conference , it's kind of become a tradition for us to do something dangerous with richard . and we've always done something with the bullwhips in our act . it's funny , for years i did it with daniel holding balloons .	布:你知道嗎 , 每年在會議上 , 這有點像是我們在理查做一些危險的傳統 。 我們一直以來都在我們的行為中做一些事情 。 這很有趣 , 多年來 , 我用daniel拿著氣球 。
and then we thought , " how stupid . "	然後我們想: 「 多麼愚蠢 。 」
dh: excuse me , could we work on the design of the microphone ?	不好意思 , 我們能否在麥克風設計上工作 ?
bf: i think that's the next session .	布:我想那就是下一個會議 。
bf: yeah . and so we've actually found a way to incorporate richard in this .	布:是的 。 我們真的找到方法來結合richard 。
he actually assumes more of the danger in this .	實際上 , 他假設更多的危險 。
dh: please stand up , richard .	請站起來 , 理查 。
dh: now richard , please . . .	現在 , 理查 , 請......
bf: ok , sorry .	好 , 抱歉 。
dh: jesus christ . richard , please stand in front of me .	耶穌基督 。 理查 , 請站在我面前 。
richard wurman: can i say something ?	理查•沃爾曼:我能說些什麼嗎 ?
rw: in all past years i've rehearsed with them , the things that have happened to me i have no idea what's going to happen and that's the truth .	雷恩:在過去的幾年裡 , 我安排了他們 , 發生在我身上的事 , 我不知道會發生什麼事 , 那就是真相 。
dh: all right , please stand here in front . . .	好 , 請站在前面......
god , i hate that . put your hands out like this , please .	天啊 , 我討厭這一點 。 請把你們的手放出來 。
bf: no , come stay up with him .	布:不 , 來跟他留下來 。
dan used to actually hold them but now he's got you for protection .	丹過去確實抱持著他們 , 但現在他有你去保護 。
it's kind of neat . ok .	很棒 。 好 。
dh: wow , you've been working out .	哇 , 你一直在工作 。
bf: no , shut up !	bf:不 , 閉嘴 !
having a little bit of richard time . that's nice , that's good .	有一點理查的時間 , 很棒 , 很棒 。
ok , here we go .	好 , 開始吧 。
have him hold your wrist so i can . . .	請他拿著手腕 , 這樣我就可以......
dh: please hold my wrist , will you . bf: yeah , hold this a minute .	請舉起我的手腕 , 請你 。 布:是的 , 請等一下 。
ok , hold on .	好 , 等等 。
bf: all those midyear phone calls are coming back to me now , richard .	朱利安:所有中年電話都回來我 , 理查 。
dh: so richard , what were we on the list ? like 1 , 020 ?	理查德:我們在清單上什麼 ? 像020一樣 ?
bf: i think we were just outside .	布:我覺得我們在外面 。
dh: sorry . bf: having some bad flashbacks .	很抱歉 , 很糟糕的回應 。
rw: do you want me to hold you or not ? dh: don't hold me that hard .	雷恩:你希望我抓住你嗎 ? dh:別抓住我 。
bf: here we go , i'm taking it .	布:我們來吧 , 我正在拿它 。
dh: one more , one more .	再一次 , 再一次 。
bf: we've got one more we're going to do .	布:我們還有一個要做 。
rw: do i get to hold them ?	雷恩:我能不能抓住它們嗎 ?
bf: you don't want to hold these , trust me .	布:你不想持住這些 , 相信我 。
dh: could you spread your legs a little bit ?	你能不能稍微擴散你的雙腿 ?
bf: gloria , you want to do it ? it's very cool .	布:gloria , 你想做嗎 ? 很酷 。
one more try . man , i don't want to get too close .	再試一次 。 老兄 , 我不想太靠近 。
could you just push that ?	你能把這個推開嗎 ?
dh: wow ! boy !	哇 ! 天啊 !
bf: that's cool . i always wanted to try that .	太酷了 。 我總是想試試 。
dh: let's jump this way , though .	不過 , 我們就這樣跳下去 。
now , we risked richard's life , it's only fair we risk our own lives .	我們冒著理查的生命 , 只有公平地冒著自己的生命 。
so to do that , i will juggle these three razorsharp sickles .	為了做到這一點 , 我會雜耍這三隻老鼠的生病 。
and if that wasn't enough , and judging by your response , it's not . . .	如果這還不夠 , 根據你的回應 , 那就不是......
dh: wow ! bf: hoping for a little more build .	哇 ! bf:希望有更多的建造 。
dh: true . barry . . .	沒錯 , 沒問題 。
bf: i'm going to run up behind him .	布:我會跑到他後面 。
dh: leap over my shoulder .	跳過我的肩膀 。
bf: up and over his shoulders .	bf:上和肩膀上 。
dh: grab the blades in midair , land right there in a pool of blood . . .	嗯 , 抓住半空中的刀片 , 就在一池血液中......
impossible , you say ?	你說 , 不可能嗎 ?
bf: incredible , you say ?	不可思議 , 你說嗎 ?
dh: why bother , you say ?	你說 , 為什麼麻煩 ?
bf: here we go .	我們來吧 。
dh: just do it juggler boys , you say ?	你就這樣做吧 ?
bf: this guy , this guy invented air .	這個傢伙發明了空氣 。
dh: i think so , that's right .	我想 , 沒錯 。
bf: he invented the pencil .	布:他發明了鉛筆
dh: all right , we'll do this trick , but please remember it took us over 10 years to perfect .	好吧 , 我們要做這個技倆 , 但請記住 , 我們花了超過十年的時間才能完美 。
bf: ten years to perfect , which you're about to see .	bf:十年來完美 , 你即將看到的 。
dh: it's not that difficult , we just don't like to practice that much .	沒那麼難 , 我們只是不喜歡練習那麼多 。
bf: no , it's a hassle . traveling too much .	布:不 , 這是個麻煩 。 旅行太多了 。
actually , we will take a second to prove this could be fake that the blades are indeed razorsharp .	事實上 , 我們會花一秒鐘來證明這可能是假的 , 假裝的確是雷茲•夏普 。
dh: will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage ?	請有人把一個小農場丟到舞台上嗎 ?
or a virgin for a sacrifice ?	還是犧牲的處女 ?
bf: no , she's got . . . farm animal .	布:不 , 她有......農場動物 。
dh: do you have a small farm animal ?	你有隻小農場動物嗎 ?
just trying to play the odds . all right , here we go .	試試看機率 。 好 , 開始吧 。
bf: over the top , over the top .	bf:在上面 , 頂端 。
dh: how you feeling , barry ? you feeling all right ?	你感覺如何 , 巴瑞 ? 你覺得好嗎 ?
bf: yeah , it's all right .	沒錯 。
dh: do you feel everything's ok ? the atmosphere , the . . .	你覺得一切都沒事嗎 ? 大氣層...
bf: yeah , a little sketchy .	布:是的 , 有點草圖 。
dh: everything up here's ok ?	好嗎 ?
dh: then here we go .	然後 , 我們開始吧 。
bf: this one's a little . . . who's doing the lights ? could you point that a little more directly into my eyeballs ? is that possible ? i can still see a little .	布:這一個小的...誰在做燈 ? 你能更直接地指出我的眼球嗎 ? 這是有可能的嗎 ? 我仍然能看到一點點 。
dh: and turn up the intensity ; we're still pink in the middle .	湯:調高強度 , 我們仍然在中間粉紅 。
we went too far .	我們走太遠了 。
bf: yeah , it's too far . it's too much of a visual .	布:是的 , 它太遠了 , 太多視覺化了 。
the design of the body is a whole different thing .	身體的設計是完全不同的 。
dh: ready , barry ? bf: over the top .	準備好了 , barry ? bf:在上面 。
dh: may we have our jumping music please ?	請大家跳出音樂嗎 ?
may we have it a bit louder ?	我們是否有一點大聲 ?
bf: they're a good crew ! whoa !	布:他們是個很好的團隊 ! 哇 !
dh: whoa , sorry . all right .	哇 , 抱歉 。 好了 。
bf: we're going on .	布:我們要繼續 。
dh: all right , we'll try again .	好 , 我們再試一次 。
bf: all right ? oh my gosh . oh .	好嗎 ? 噢 ! 噢 !
dh: all right , here we go . sorry about that .	好了 , 我們開始 。 抱歉 。
bf: i thought i had the hard part . ok .	布:我想我有很困難的部分 。 好 。
dh: whenever you're ready .	不管你準備好了 。
bf: there we go !	我們來吧 !
all right , get up ! come on and dance ! dh: dance , come on . bf: come on and dance !	好吧 , 起來吧 ! 來吧 ! 跳吧 ! 舞 , 來吧 !
somebody dance ! come on !	有人跳舞 ! 來吧 !
wow , wow , ok , stop .	哇 , 好 , 停下來 。
weird , no one dances . we're two guys doing this .	很怪 , 沒有人跳舞 。 我們有兩個人這樣做 。
i think that's uncomfortable for everyone .	我認為這對每個人來說是不舒服的 。
dh: the french judge . . .	法國法官......
bf: one more quick thing .	bf:還有一件更快的事 。
dh: the french judge gives it a 5 . 2 .	法國法官給了5.2 。
bf: well , you know . . .	布:嗯...
dh: there you go . . . bf: oh , yeah . another one coming in .	沒錯 , 再來一個 。
dh: tell them about our bio and stuff .	講述我們的生物和其他東西 。
bf: yeah . in our bio , some of you may have read that we've won two world juggling championships .	布:是的 , 在我們的生物中 , 有些人可能讀過 , 我們贏得了兩個世界雜耍冠軍 。
and believe it or not , you don't win juggling champions for doing things with bullwhips or shaker cups .	不管你信不信由你 , 你不會贏得競選冠軍 , 用牛仔或粉碎杯來做事 。
we're going to show you right now an excerpt from a routine that we used to wipe out the other juggling team competition .	我們現在要給你們看的是一個我們以前用來擦去其他的雜耍團隊競賽的演出 。
dh: i know what you're thinking: other juggling teams must really suck .	我知道你在想什麼:其他的雜耍團隊必須要非常糟糕 。
bf: juggling's got a bad rap .	bf:雜耍有不好的強暴 。
dh: but wait , barry , there's still one more club lying there by my foot .	但是 , 等等 , 芭瑞 , 我腳邊還有一個俱樂部 。
and look , it has a twin !	看 , 它有雙胞胎 !
dh: there's still one more by my foot .	我的腳仍然有一根 。
what do you want me to do with it ?	你希望我能用它做什麼 ?
bf: richard you tell him , it's your last year .	bf:理查你告訴他 , 去年是你的 。
dh: that's a pretty good setup , richard .	理查德:這是個很好的集合 。
bf: yeah , it's a good setup . that's a big setup .	布:是的 , 這是個很好的組合 。 這是個很大的組合 。
dh: you can't get any better than that . all right . what i will do: i will use my pantherlike reflexes .	你不能比這更好 。 好 。 我會用像胰臟一樣的反射 。
dh: i got that to reach down and grab that club in my grip of steel .	我拿到我的鋼索上抓住那塊俱樂部 。
dh: i touched it , barry . that should be enough .	我碰它 , 巴瑞 , 那應該夠了 。
bf: it's progress , that's the thing .	布:這是進步 , 重點是 。
dh: how about that ? i'll do it again .	如何 ? 我再做一次 。
oh wait , it's on your side , barry .	喔 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
and it's awfully windy over there .	在那邊 , 風很大 。
bf: it is , it's weird . you wouldn't think it would affect half the stage , but it is . it's weird .	布:這很奇怪 , 你不認為它會影響半個舞台 , 但它很奇怪 。
watch this: what i'm going to do is slide the seventh one onto my foot .	看這個:我要做的是把第七根投在我的腳上 。
dh: wow ! what a great trick , barry !	哇 ! 太棒了 !
oh , look how it lies there .	喔 , 看看它是怎麼說的 。
oh , barry , is there nothing you can't do ?	喔 , barry , 你不能做任何事嗎 ?
you are my hero . you're my jim shea , jr .	你是我的英雄 。 你是我的吉姆希亞 , jr 。
bf: from my foot , i'll attempt to kick the seventh club . here we go .	布:從我的腳 , 我會試著踢第七個俱樂部 。 我們來吧 。
dh: where , barry ? where ? tell us , barry .	巴瑞在哪裡 ? 哪裡 ? 告訴我們 , 巴瑞 。
[unclear] eagerly awaits your next syllable . what will it be ?	[不清楚][不清楚][不清楚][不清楚][不清楚][不清楚]][不清楚][不清楚]][[不清楚]][不清楚]是什麼意思 ?
what gem of knowledge ?	什麼是知識 ?
what pearl of wisdom ?	什麼珍珠的智慧 ?
do you want to buy a vowel , barry ?	你想買一副誓言嗎 ?
is that your final answer ?	你的最後答案是嗎 ?
bf: all right ! you have to turn off the tv from time to time .	好了 ! 你得隨時關掉電視 。
dh: i do , i do .	我是這樣 。
bf: from my foot , the kick up in the seven .	bf:從我的腳開始 , 第七個 。
dh: we will juggle seven .	我們會雜耍七個 。
bf: from six to seven . dh: that's a world's record . bf: really ? dh: for us .	布:從六到七點:這是世界的紀錄 。 布:真的嗎 ? dh:對我們來說 。
dh: whenever you're ready there , big guy .	不論你準備好了 , 大傢伙 。
put your tongue away , barry .	把你的舌頭放開 , 巴瑞 。
bf: oh , oh , whoa .	喔 , 喔 , 哇 。
dh: please , please stay seated . stay seated . thank you .	請留下來 , 留下來 。 謝謝 。
because now , to make this twice as difficult , we'll juggle the seven clubs back . . .	因為 , 現在 , 要把這兩倍的困難 , 我們會把這七個俱樂部帶回來......
dh: . . . to back .	嗯......回來 。
bf: thank you , that's it .	布:謝謝你 , 就這樣 。
bf: thank you guys !	布:謝謝你們 !
dh: thank you very much !	非常謝謝 !
in this accessible talk from tedxboston , richard resnick shows how cheap and fast genome sequencing is about to turn health care upside down .	在這場tedxboston的演講中 , 理查.resnick展示了如何便宜且快速的基因組定序將會把健康照護顛倒 。
dna , biotech , health care , science , technology	dna、生物科技、健康照護、科學、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、dna、生物科技、
richard resnick: welcome to the genomic revolution	理查.雷尼克:歡迎來到基因革命 。
ladies and gentlemen , i present to you the human genome .	各位先生女士 , 我向你們展示人類基因組 。
chromosome one , top left .	染色體 , 左上方 。
bottom right are the sex chromosomes .	右下角是性染色體 。
women have two copies of that big x chromosome ; men have the x and , of course , that small copy of the y .	女性有兩個x染色體的複製品 ; 男性有x , 當然 , 還有y的小複製品 。
sorry boys , but it's just a tiny little thing that makes you different .	抱歉男孩 , 但這只是一件小事 , 讓你有所不同 。
so if you zoom in on this genome , then what you see , of course , is this double helix structure the code of life spelled out with these four biochemical letters , or we call them bases , right: a , c , g and t .	所以如果你放大這個基因組 , 你可以看到 , 這雙螺旋結構是生命的編碼 , 用這四個生物化學字母拼出來 , 或我們稱它們為鹼基 , 右邊是:a、g、t 。
how many are there in the human genome ? three billion .	在人類基因組中有多少 ? 30億 。
is that a big number ?	這是個大數字嗎 ?
well , everybody can throw around big numbers .	嗯 , 每個人都可以投擲大量的數字 。
but in fact , if i were to place one base on each pixel of this 1280 by 800 resolution screen , we would need 3 , 000 screens to take a look at the genome .	但事實上 , 如果我把這1280像素的每一個像素點放到800個解析度螢幕上 , 我們需要3000個螢幕來觀察基因組 。
so it's really quite big .	所以它真的很大 。
and perhaps because of its size , a group of people all , by the way , with y chromosomes decided they would want to sequence it .	也許是因為它的大小 , 一群人 , 順道一提 , y染色體決定他們會想要定序 。
and so 15 years , actually , and about four billion dollars later , the genome was sequenced and published .	15年後 , 實際上 , 大約40億美金後 , 基因組被定序並發表 。
in 2003 , the final version was published , and they keep working on it .	2003年 , 最後的版本被發表了 , 他們繼續研究它 。
that was all done on a machine that looks like this .	這一切都在機器上完成 , 看起來像這樣 。
it costs about a dollar for each base a very slow way of doing it .	每一塊一塊錢 , 每一塊錢的成本都很緩慢 。
well folks , i'm here to tell you that the world has completely changed and none of you know about it .	嗯 , 我來這裡要告訴各位 , 世界已經完全改變 , 沒有人知道這個世界 。
so now what we do is we take a genome , we make maybe 50 copies of it , we cut all those copies up into little 50base reads , and then we sequence them , massively parallel .	所以現在我們要做的是把基因組做成50個複製 , 我們把所有複製品切成50個鹼基閱讀 , 然後我們將它們定序 , 相當平行 。
and then we bring that into software , and we reassemble it and we tell you what the story is .	然後我們將這個軟體放入軟體中 , 我們重新組合 , 告訴你這個故事是什麼 。
and so just to give you a picture of what this looks like , the human genome project: 3 gigabases , right .	所以 , 給各位看這張圖片 , 人類基因組計畫:3gbabes , 對 。
one run on one of these machines: 200 gigabases in a week .	一個在其中一台機器上跑:一週內有200gbas 。
and that 200 is going to change to 600 this summer , and there's no sign of this pace slowing .	今年夏天將有600個改變 , 沒有這種減速的跡象 。
so the price of a base , to sequence a base , has fallen 100 million times .	所以基地的價格下降了一億倍 。
that's the equivalent of you filling up your car with gas in 1998 , waiting until 2011 , and now you can drive to jupiter and back twice .	等同於1998年填滿你的車輛 , 等到2011年 , 現在你可以開車到木星再回來兩次 。
world population , pc placements , the archive of all the medical literature , moore's law , the old way of sequencing , and here's all the new stuff .	世界人口、pc地點、醫療文獻、摩爾定律、舊方式定序 , 所有新東西 。
guys , this is a log scale ; you don't typically see lines that go up like that .	各位 , 這是個邏輯尺度 ; 你通常不會看到像這樣的線條 。
so the worldwide capacity to sequence human genomes is something like 50 , 000 to 100 , 000 human genomes this year .	人類基因組測序的能力是今年五萬到十萬個人類基因組 。
and we know this based on the machines that are being placed .	我們知道這個基於被放置的機器 。
this is expected to double , triple or maybe quadruple year over year for the foreseeable future .	這是預期的兩倍、三倍或四倍的未來 。
in fact , there's one lab in particular that represents 20 percent of all that capacity .	事實上 , 特別有一間實驗室代表所有能力的20% 。
it's called the beijing genomics institute .	叫做北京基因學研究所 。
the chinese are absolutely winning this race to the new moon , by the way .	中國人絕對贏了這個新月球 , 順便一提 。
what does this mean for medicine ?	這對醫學意味著什麼 ?
so a woman is age 37 .	一個女人37歲 。
she presents with stage 2 estrogen receptorpositive breast cancer .	她帶著2個雌激素接受器官的乳癌 。
she is treated with surgery , chemotherapy and radiation .	她接受手術、化療和輻射治療 。
two years later , she comes back with stage three c ovarian cancer .	兩年後 , 她帶著第三個卵巢癌 。
unfortunately , treated again with surgery and chemotherapy .	不幸的是 , 再次接受手術和化療治療 。
she comes back three years later at age 42 with more ovarian cancer , more chemotherapy .	三年後 , 她回到了42歲 , 患有更多卵巢癌 , 更多的化療 。
six months later , she comes back with acute myeloid leukemia .	六個月後 , 她帶著急性白血病回來 。
she goes into respiratory failure and dies eight days later .	她走進呼吸道失敗的8天後死去 。
so first , the way in which this woman was treated , in as little as 10 years , will look like bloodletting .	首先 , 這位女士在十年內被治療的方式 , 看起來會像血液循環一樣 。
and it's because of people like my colleague , rick wilson , at the genome institute at washington university , who decided to take a look at this woman postmortem .	由於像我同事rickwilson這樣的人在華盛頓大學的基因組研究所他決定看這位女子
and he sequenced , he took skin cells , healthy skin , and cancerous bone marrow , and he sequenced the whole genomes of both of them in a couple of weeks , no big deal .	他的基因序列 , 將皮膚細胞、健康的皮膚和癌症骨髓定序 , 幾週內 , 兩者的基因組 , 沒有什麼大不了的 。
and then he compared those two genomes in software , and what he found , among other things , was a deletion , a 2 , 000base deletion across three billion bases in a particular gene called tp53 .	接著 , 他比較了軟體中這兩種基因組 , 他發現 , 其它東西之一 , 是廢棄物 , 兩千多個鹼基 , 在一個叫做tp53的基因中 , 一個叫做tp53的基因 。
if you have this deleterious mutation in this gene , you're 90 percent likely to get cancer in your life .	如果你在這個基因中有這種惡性突變 , 你的生命中有90%的可能性會罹患癌症 。
so unfortunately , this doesn't help this woman , but it does have severe , profound if you will , implications to her family .	不幸的是 , 這並不能幫助這位女士 , 但這確實有嚴重、深刻的意義 , 影響她的家人 。
i mean , if they have the same mutation , and they get this genetic test , and they understand it , then they can go and get regular screens , and they can catch cancer early and potentially live a significantly longer life .	我的意思是 , 如果它們有相同的突變 , 它們會得到這個基因測試 , 它們會了解它 , 那麼它們會去取得常規的螢幕 , 它們可以早期發現癌症 , 且有可能活得更久 。
let me introduce you now to the beery twins , diagnosed with cerebral palsy at the age of two .	讓我向你們介紹beery雙胞胎 , 在2歲時 , 被診斷出腦性麻痺症 。
their mom is a very brave woman who didn't believe that the symptoms weren't matching up , and through some heroic efforts and a lot of internet searching , she was able to convince the medical community that , in fact , they had something else .	他們的母親是一位非常勇敢的女人 , 她不相信症狀不會跟上 , 透過一些英雄的努力和許多網路搜尋 , 她能夠說服醫學界 , 事實上 , 他們還有別的東西 。
what they had was doparesponsive dystonia .	他們有的是反對的失調症 。
and so they were given ldopa , and their symptoms did improve , but they weren't totally asymptomatic .	所以他們得到了ldopa , 他們的症狀也改善了 , 但他們並沒有完全的症狀 。
turns out the gentleman in this picture is a guy named joe beery , who was lucky enough to be the cio of a company called life technologies .	原來這張照片裡的先生是joebeery的傢伙 , 他很幸運成為一家叫做 「 生命科技 」 的公司 。
they're one of the two companies that makes these massive whole genome sequencing tools .	它們是兩家公司 , 製造出大量基因組定序的工具之一 。
and so what he did was he got his kids sequenced .	他做的是讓他的孩子做定序 。
and what they found was a series of mutations in a gene called spr , which is responsible for producing serotonin , among other things .	他們發現的是一系列的突變 , 一種叫做spr的基因 , 它負責生產血清素 , 其它東西 。
so on top of ldopa , they gave these kids a serotonin precursor drug , and they're effectively normal now .	所以在烏托邦的頂端 , 他們給這些孩子一個血清素前吸毒 , 現在他們很正常 。
guys , this would never have happened without whole genome sequencing .	各位 , 沒有完整的基因序列 , 這絕對不會發生 。
and at the time this was a few years ago it cost $100 , 000 .	幾年前 , 花費十萬美金 。
today it's $10 , 000 . next year it's $1 , 000 .	今天是一萬美元 。 明年是一千美金 。
the year after it's $100 , give or take a year .	一百美金 , 給或花一年後 。
that's how fast this is moving .	這就是移動的速度 。
so here's little nick likes batman and squirt guns .	這有點像蝙蝠俠和松鼠槍 。
and it turns out nick shows up at the children's hospital with this distended belly like a famine victim .	結果發現尼克出現在兒童醫院 , 帶著這種偏離的肚子 , 就像是饑荒受害者 。
and it's not that he's not eating , it's that when he eats , his intestine basically opens up and feces spill out into his gut .	不是他沒有吃飯 , 而是當他吃飯時 , 他的腸子基本上會打開 , 餵食從他的腸子中吐出來 。
so a hundred surgeries later , he looks at his mom and says , " mom , please pray for me . i'm in so much pain . "	一百個手術後 , 他看著他的媽媽 , 說: 「 媽 , 請為我禱告 。 我非常痛苦 。 」
his pediatrician happens to have a background in clinical genetics and he has no idea what's going on , but he says , " let's get this kid's genome sequenced . "	他的小兒科醫生剛好有臨床遺傳學背景 , 他不知道發生了什麼事 , 但他說: 「 讓我們讓這個孩子的基因序列 。 」
and what they find is a singlepoint mutation in a gene responsible for controlling programmed cell death .	而他們發現一個單向的突變在控制程式細胞死亡的基因上 。
so the theory is that he's having some immunological reaction to what's going on to the food essentially , and that's a natural reaction , which causes some programmed cell death .	理論是 , 他對食物本質上發生的免疫反應有一些免疫反應 , 這是一種自然反應 , 造成了一些程式化的細胞死亡 。
but the gene that regulates that down is broken .	但調節結果的基因被破壞了 。
and so this informs , among other things , of course , a treatment for bone marrow transplant , which he undertakes .	另外 , 這也說明了骨髓移植的療法 , 當然 , 也是他在進行的 。
and after nine months of grueling recovery , he's now eating steak with a1 sauce .	經過九個月的艱難復原後 , 他現在用1個醬料吃牛排 。
the prospect of using the genome as a universal diagnostic is upon us today .	將基因組當作一個普遍的診斷 , 正是我們今天所面臨的 。
today , it's here .	今天 , 就在這裡 。
and what it means for all of us is that everybody in this room could live an extra five , 10 , 20 years just because of this one thing .	對我們所有人來說 , 在這間房間裡的每個人 , 可以多活五、十年、二十年 , 只因為這一件事 。
which is a fantastic story , unless you think about humanity's footprint on the planet and our ability to keep up food production .	這是個很棒的故事 , 除非你考慮到人類對地球的足跡以及我們維持食物生產的能力 。
so it turns out that the very same technology is also being used to grow new lines of corn , wheat , soybean and other crops that are highly tolerant of drought , of flood , of pests and pesticides .	結果發現 , 同樣的技術也被用來種植玉米、小麥、大豆和其他農作物 , 這些農作物都非常包容乾旱、洪水、害蟲和殺蟲劑 。
now look , as long as we continue to increase the population , we're going to have to continue to grow and eat genetically modified foods , and that's the only position that i'll take today .	現在 , 只要我們繼續增加人口 , 我們就必須繼續種植、吃基因改造的食物 , 這就是我今天唯一能帶走的位置 。
unless there's anybody in the audience that would like to volunteer to stop eating ?	除非在座有人願意自願停止吃東西嗎 ?
none , not one .	沒有 , 沒有 。
this is a typewriter , a staple of every desktop for decades .	這是個打字機 , 數十年來每台桌上型電腦的一步 。
and in fact , the typewriter was essentially deleted by this thing .	事實上 , 打字機基本上被這個東西刪除 。
and then more general versions of word processors came about .	接著 , 更多的普遍的文字處理器出現了 。
but ultimately , it was a disruption on top of a disruption .	但最終 , 這是個顛覆性的破壞 。
it was bob metcalfe inventing the ethernet and the connection of all these computers that fundamentally changed everything .	鮑勃.金屬基金會發明了乙烯 , 以及所有這些電腦的連結 , 徹底改變了一切 。
and suddenly we had netscape , and we had yahoo and we had , indeed , the entire dotcom bubble .	突然間 , 我們有了網絡攝影機 , 我們有雅虎 , 真的 , 整個網路泡沫 。
not to worry though , that was quickly rescued by the ipod , facebook and , indeed , angry birds .	不用擔心 , 很快就被ipod、臉書、憤怒的鳥拯救了 。
look , this is where we are today .	聽著 , 這就是我們今天的樣子 。
this is the genomic revolution today . this is where we are .	這就是現今的基因革命 。 這就是我們所在的地方 。
so what i'd like you to consider is: what does it mean when these dots don't represent the individual bases of your genome , but they connect to genomes all across the planet ?	所以 , 我想請各位思考的是:當這些點並不代表你基因組的基礎是什麼 ? 但它們和地球各地的基因組聯繫在一起 ?
so i just recently had to buy life insurance .	最近我必須買救命保險 。
and i was required to answer: a . i have never had a genetic test , b . i've had one , here you go , and c . i've had one and i'm not telling .	我被要求回答:a.我從來沒有做過基因試驗 , b.我有一個 , 走了 , 然後c.我沒有說過 。
thankfully , i was able to answer a , and i say that honestly in case my life insurance agent is listening .	謝天謝地 , 我能回答a , 老實說 , 以防我的生命保險機構正在聆聽 。
but what would have happened if i had said c ?	但如果我說過c , 會發生什麼事 ?
consumer applications for genomics , they will flourish .	消費者應用在基因組學上 , 他們會繁榮 。
do you want to see whether you're genetically compatible with your girlfriend ? sure .	你想知道你是否與女朋友有基因相容 ? 當然 。
dna sequencing on your iphone ? there's an app for that .	dna在你的iphone上定序嗎 ? 有一個應用程式 。
personalized genomic massage anyone ?	個人化的基因按摩有沒有人 ?
there's already a lab today that tests for allele 334 of the avpr1 gene , the socalled cheating gene .	今天已經有一個實驗室 , 測試了avpr1基因的alle34 , 也就是所謂的作弊基因 。
so anybody who's here today with your significant other , just turn over to them and swab their mouth , send it to the lab and you'll know for sure .	所以 , 今天在座的任何一個人 , 只要轉向他們 , 嘴巴 , 把它送到實驗室 , 你肯定知道 。
do you really want to elect a president whose genome suggests cardiomyopathy ?	你真的想選個總統 , 誰的基因組建議心臟病變 ?
now think of it , it's 2016 and the leading candidate releases not only her four years of back tax returns , but also her personal genome .	想想看 , 它是2016年 , 領導的候選人不只公佈四年的稅收 , 還有她的個人基因組 。
and it looks really good .	看起來非常好 。
and then she challenges all of her competitors to do the same .	接著 , 她挑戰所有的競爭者都做同樣的事 。
do you think that's not going to happen ?	你覺得這不會發生嗎 ?
do you think it would have helped john mccain ?	你覺得這會協助約翰麥肯嗎 ?
how many people in the audience have the last name resnick like me ? raise your hand .	聽眾中有多少人有像我這樣的名字resnick ? 請舉手 。
typically , there's one or two .	通常 , 有1或2 。
so my father's father was one of 10 resnick brothers .	我父親的父親是十個resnick兄弟之一 。
they all hated each other .	他們都討厭彼此 。
and they all moved to different parts of the planet .	他們都搬到地球的不同區域 。
so it's likely that i'm related to every resnick that i ever meet , but i don't know .	所以 , 很可能我和我碰過的每個珊瑚礁有關 , 但我不知道 。
but imagine if my genome were deidentified , sitting in software , and a third cousin's genome was also sitting there , and there was software that could compare these two and make these associations .	但想像一下 , 如果我的基因被辨識出來 , 坐在軟體中 , 第三個表親的基因組也在那裡坐在那裡 , 軟體可以比較這兩個 , 製造出這些關聯 。
not hard to imagine . my company has software that does this right now .	不難想像 。 我的公司現在有軟體 ,
and so imagine one more thing: that that software is able to ask both parties for mutual consents , " would you be willing to meet your third cousin ? "	再想像一件事:那個軟體能夠要求雙方同意 , 「 你願意滿足你的第三個表親嗎 ? 」
and if we both say yes , voila ! welcome to chromosomally linkedin .	如果我們兩者都說 「 是 」 , 伏利亞 ! 歡迎來到染色體上 。
now this is probably a good thing , right ?	這可能是件好事 , 對吧 ?
you have bigger clan gatherings and so on .	你有更大的整體聚會等等 。
but maybe it's a bad thing as well .	但也許這也是件壞事 。
how many fathers in the room ? raise your hands .	房間裡有多少父親 ? 舉起你的手 。
okay , so experts think that one to three percent of you are not actually the father of your child .	好的 , 專家認為你們當中有1%到3%的人其實不是你孩子的父親 。
look these genomes , these 23 chromosomes , they don't in any way represent the quality of our relationships or the nature of our society at least not yet .	看看這些基因組 , 這23個染色體 , 它們不代表我們的關係品質 , 至少還沒有 。
and like any new technology , it's really in humanity's hands to wield it for the betterment of mankind , or not .	和任何新科技一樣 , 人類的手真的是為了更好的人類 , 或不是 。
and so i urge you all to wake up and to tune in and to influence the genomic revolution that's happening all around you .	所以我鼓勵大家醒來 , 來調整一下 , 影響你們身邊的基因革命 。
daniel kraft demos his marrow miner a new device that quickly harvests lifesaving bone marrow with minimal pain to the donor . he emphasizes that the adult stem cells found in bone marrow can be used to treat many terminal conditions , from parkinson's to heart disease .	丹尼爾•克拉夫展示了他的骨髓礦物一個新裝置 , 很快就收集到捐贈者的骨髓 。 他強調骨髓裡的成人幹細胞可以被用來治療許多臨終疾病 , 從帕金森氏症到心臟疾病 。
biology , biotech , health , health care , medicine , science , technology	生物科技、生物科技、健康照護、醫學、科學、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、
daniel kraft invents a better way to harvest bone marrow	丹尼爾克拉夫發明了更好的方式來收集骨髓骨髓 。
so i am a pediatric cancer doctor and stemcell researcher at stanford university where my clinical focus has been bone marrow transplantation .	我是史丹佛大學的小兒科醫師和史丹佛大學的幹細胞研究員 , 我的臨床焦點一直是骨髓移植 。
now , inspired by jill bolte taylor last year , i didn't bring a human brain , but i did bring a liter of bone marrow .	去年 , 由jillboltetaylor所啟發 , 我沒有帶一個人腦袋 , 但我確實帶了一公升的骨髓 。
and bone marrow is actually what we use to save the lives of tens of thousands of patients , most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphoma and some other diseases .	骨髓其實是我們用來拯救數萬名病患的生命 , 大部分患者都有先進的惡性腫瘤 , 例如白血病、淋巴瘤和其他疾病 。
so , a few years ago , i'm doing my transplant fellowship at stanford .	所以 , 幾年前 , 我在史丹佛的移植費案 。
i'm in the operating room . we have bob here , who is a volunteer donor .	我在手術室 , 我們這裡有鮑伯 , 他是志願捐贈者 。
we're sending his marrow across the country to save the life of a child with leukemia .	我們把他的骨髓送到全國 , 以拯救白血病孩童的生命 。
so actually how do we harvest this bone marrow ?	所以 , 我們要如何收集這些骨髓 ?
well we have a whole o . r . team , general anesthesia , nurses , and another doctor across from me .	我們有一整個o.r.團隊 , 普通麻醉、護士 , 還有另一位醫師 。
bob's on the table , and we take this sort of small needle , you know , not too big .	鮑勃站在桌上 , 我們拿著這個小針 , 你知道的 , 不是太大 。
and the way we do this is we basically place this through the soft tissue , and kind of punch it into the hard bone , into the tuchus that's a technical term and aspirate about 10 mls of bone marrow out , each time , with a syringe .	基本上 , 我們用柔軟的組織將它放到硬骨上 , 進入到管子裡 , 一個技術上的術語 , 每次用針筒挖出10磅的骨髓 。
and hand it off to the nurse . she squirts it into a tin .	把它交給護士 。 她把護士放進一個薄片裡 。
hands it back to me . and we do that again and again .	把它們交給我 。 我們一而再再而三地這樣做 。
about 200 times usually .	通常是兩百次 。
and by the end of this my arm is sore , i've got a callus on my hand , let alone bob , whose rear end looks something more like this , like swiss cheese .	到了我的手臂結束後 , 我手上有一支打招呼 , 更不用說鮑勃 , 他的屁股看起來像這樣 , 像瑞士起士 。
so i'm thinking , you know , this procedure hasn't changed in about 40 years .	我在想 , 這個程序在40年內沒有改變 。
and there is probably a better way to do this .	這樣做可能還有更好的方法 。
so i thought of a minimally invasive approach , and a new device that we call the marrow miner .	所以我想到一個最低侵入性的方法 , 我們稱之為骨髓礦物 。
and the marrow miner , the way it works is shown here .	而骨髓礦物 , 它的運作方式在這裡 。
our standard seethrough patient .	我們的標準可見病人 。
instead of entering the bone dozens of times , we enter just once , into the front of the hip or the back of the hip .	與其進入骨頭數十次 , 我們進入了一次 , 進入髖骨或髖骨的前面 。
and we have a flexible , powered catheter with a special wire loop tip that stays inside the crunchy part of the marrow and follows the contours of the hip , as it moves around .	我們有一個彈性、強力的導管 , 帶著一個特殊的電線循環 , 留在骨髓中 , 跟著骨髓的輪廓 , 繞著骨髓移動 。
so it enables you to very rapidly aspirate , or suck out , rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole .	所以它讓你可以很快速地得到靈感 , 或吸取豐富的骨髓 , 很快地通過一個洞 。
we can do multiple passes through that same entry .	我們可以通過相同的入口進行多次傳遞 。
and , so , very quickly , bob can just get one puncture , local anesthesia , and do this harvest as an outpatient .	所以 , 很快地 , 鮑勃只能用一針針針刺 , 當地的麻醉 , 把收穫做成耐心 。
so i did a few prototypes . i got a small little grant at stanford .	所以我做了一些原型 。 我在史丹佛得到了一個小小的補助 。
and played around with this a little bit .	再玩一下 。
and our team members developed this technology .	我們的團隊成員開發了這項技術 。
and eventually we got two large animals , and pig studies .	最後我們得到了兩個大型動物 , 豬研究 。
and we found , to our surprise , that we not only got bone marrow out , but we got 10 times the stem cell activity in the marrow from the marrow miner , compared to the normal device .	我們發現 , 令人驚訝的是 , 我們不只拿出骨髓 , 我們還收到了10倍的幹細胞活動 , 從骨髓礦物質的10倍 , 相較於正常的裝置 。
this device was just fda approved in the last year .	這個裝置在去年才被核准 。
here is a live patient . you can see it following the flexible curves around .	這裡是現場的病人 , 你可以看到它跟著彈性的曲線 。
there will be two passes here , in the same patient , from the same hole .	同一個病人 , 在同一個洞裡 , 會有兩個過來 。
this was done under local anesthesia , as an outpatient .	這是在本地麻醉的情況下進行的 。
and we got , again , about three to six times more stem cells than the standard approach done on the same patient .	同樣的 , 我們得到的幹細胞 , 比同一個病人用的標準來得多3到6倍 。
so why should you care ? bone marrow is a very rich source of adult stem cells .	你為什麼要在乎 ? 骨髓是成人幹細胞非常豐富的來源 。
you all know about embryonic stem cells .	你們都知道胚胎幹細胞 。
they've got great potential but haven't yet entered clinical trials .	他們有很大的潛力 , 但尚未進入臨床試驗 。
adult stem cells are throughout our body , including the bloodforming stem cells in our bone marrow , which we've been using as a form of stemcell therapy for over 40 years .	成人幹細胞遍佈我們的身體 , 包括骨髓中的血液循環幹細胞 , 我們已經用它作為幹細胞治療的形式 , 已經超過40年了 。
in the last decade there's been an explosion of use of bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient's other diseases such as heart disease , vascular disease , orthopedics , tissue engineering , even in neurology to treat parkinson's and diabetes .	在過去的十年中 , 用骨髓幹細胞來治療病人的其他疾病 , 例如心臟病、血管疾病、血管疾病、組織工程 , 甚至神經科醫師來治療帕金森氏症和糖尿病 。
we've just come out , we're commercializing , this year , generation 2 . 0 of the marrow miner .	我們才剛出櫃 , 今年 , 我們在商業化 , 2.0的骨髓礦物 。
the hope is that this gets more stem cells out , which translates to better outcomes .	希望這能讓更多幹細胞發揮作用 , 轉譯成更好的結果 。
it may encourage more people to sign up to be potential livesaving bone marrow donors .	它可能會鼓勵更多人登記 , 成為潛在生命的骨髓捐贈者 。
it may even enable you to bank your own marrow stem cells , when you're younger and healthier , to use in the future should you need it .	它甚至可能讓你能夠銀行你自己的骨髓幹細胞 , 當你更年輕、更健康時 , 用在未來你應該需要它 。
and ultimately and here's a picture of our bone marrow transplant survivors , who come together for a reunion each year at stanford .	最終 , 這張照片是我們骨髓移植的倖存者 , 他們每年都在史丹佛聚會 。
hopefully this technology will let us have more of these survivors in the future .	希望這項技術能讓我們在未來有更多的倖存者 。
physicist and surfer garrett lisi presents a controversial new model of the universe that just maybe answers all the big questions . if nothing else , it's the most beautiful 8dimensional model of elementary particles and forces you've ever seen .	物理學家和衝浪者葛瑞特•萊西在宇宙中展現了一種爭議性的新模式 , 可能只能回答所有大問題 。 如果沒有其他的 , 它是最美麗的 「 基本粒子 」 模型 , 和 「 力 」 。
physics , science , technology	物理、科學、科技、技術、
garrett lisi on his theory of everything	格雷特•萊西在他的理論上 , 所有事物的理論都有 。
whoa , dude . check out those killer equations . sweet .	哇 ! 老兄 。 看看那些殺手方程式 。
actually , for the next 18 minutes i'm going to do the best i can to describe the beauty of particle physics without equations .	事實上 , 接下來的18分鐘 , 我要盡我所能描述粒子物理的美麗 , 不用方程式來描述 。
it turns out there's a lot we can learn from coral .	結果發現 , 我們可以從珊瑚身上學到很多 。
coral is a very beautiful and unusual animal .	珊瑚是一種非常美麗且特別的動物 。
each coral head consists of thousand of individual polyps .	每個珊瑚的頭部都是一千個個個體的聚合物 。
these polyps are continually budding and branching into genetically identical neighbors .	這些聚合物不斷地推動並分成基因相同的鄰居 。
if we imagine this to be a hyperintelligent coral , we can single out an individual and ask him a reasonable question .	如果我們想像這是一個超級智慧的珊瑚 , 我們能單獨的分離 , 並問他一個合理的問題 。
we can ask how exactly he got to be in this particular location compared to his neighbors if it was just chance , or destiny , or what ?	我們可以問他在這個特定的位置與鄰居相比 , 如果只是機會 , 或命運 , 又怎樣 ?
now , after admonishing us for turning the temperature up too high , he would tell us that our question was completely stupid .	在我們要求將溫度變高之後 , 他會告訴我們 , 我們的問題是完全愚蠢的 。
these corals can be quite kind of mean , you see , and i have surfing scars to prove that .	這些珊瑚的意思是 , 你看 , 我有衝浪的疤痕來證明它 。
but this polyp would continue and tell us that his neighbors were quite clearly identical copies of him .	但這隻多利普會繼續告訴我們 , 他的鄰居很明顯是他相同的複本 。
that he was in all these other locations as well , but experiencing them as separate individuals .	他也處在其他地方 , 但身為獨立的個體 。
for a coral , branching into different copies is the most natural thing in the world .	對珊瑚而言 , 分成不同的複製品是世界上最自然的東西 。
unlike us , a hyperintelligent coral would be uniquely prepared to understand quantum mechanics .	和我們不同 , 超級聰明的珊瑚會是獨一無二的準備 , 來了解量子力學 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics very accurately describes how our universe works .	量子力學的數學非常準確地描述我們的宇宙是如何運作的 。
and it tells us our reality is continually branching into different possibilities , just like a coral .	它告訴我們 , 我們的現實是不斷分成不同的可能性 , 就像珊瑚一樣 。
it's a weird thing for us humans to wrap our minds around , since we only ever get to experience one possibility .	對我們人類來說這是一件奇怪的事 , 因為我們只能體驗一個可能性 。
this quantum weirdness was first described by erwin schrödinger and his cat .	這個量子奇怪的最初是由erwinschordinger和他的貓所描述 。
the cat likes this version better .	貓喜歡這個版本 。
in this setup , schrödinger is in a box with a radioactive sample that , by the laws of quantum mechanics , branches into a state in which it is radiated and a state in which it is not .	在這個裝置中 , 薛丁格在一個裝有放射性樣本的盒子裡 , 由量子力學定律 , 分支成一種狀態 , 它是被輻射及狀態的狀態 。
in the branch in which the sample radiates , it sets off a trigger that releases poison and schrödinger is dead .	在該樣本放射線的分支中 , 它會產生一種觸發 , 釋放毒藥和薛丁格死了 。
but in the other branch of reality , he remains alive .	但在現實的另一個分支中 , 他仍然活著 。
these realities are experienced separately by each individual .	這些現實都被每個人獨立的體驗 。
as far as either can tell , the other one doesn't exist .	無論如何 , 另一種都不存在 。
this seems weird to us , because each of us only experiences an individual existence , and we don't get to see other branches .	這對我們來說很奇怪 , 因為我們每個人都只會經歷個人存在 , 而我們卻無法看到其他分支 。
it's as if each of us , like schrödinger here , are a kind of coral branching into different possibilities .	彷彿我們每一個人 , 像薛丁格一樣 , 都是一種珊瑚分支 , 變成不同的可能性 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics tells us this is how the world works at tiny scales .	量子力學的數學告訴我們 , 世界如何在微小的尺度上運作 。
it can be summed up in a single sentence: everything that can happen , does .	它可以在單一句話中總結:所有可能發生的一切 。
but this does not mean everything happens .	但這並不表示每件事都會發生 。
the rest of physics is about describing what can happen and what can't .	物理的其他部分是描述可能發生什麼事 , 以及什麼是不可行的 。
what physics tells us is that everything comes down to geometry and the interactions of elementary particles .	物理告訴我們 , 一切都歸功於幾何學和基本粒子的互動 。
and things can happen only if these interactions are perfectly balanced .	只有在這些互動完全平衡的情況下 , 情況才會發生 。
now i'll go ahead and describe how we know about these particles , what they are and how this balance works .	現在我要向前描述我們對這些粒子的認識 , 它們是如何運作的 , 以及這個平衡如何運作 。
in this machine , a beam of protons and antiprotons are accelerated to near the speed of light and brought together in a collision , producing a burst of pure energy .	在這個機器中 , 一道質子和反物質的一道接近光速 , 並在碰撞中產生出純能量 。
this energy is immediately converted into a spray of subatomic particles , with detectors and computers used to figure out their properties .	這種能量馬上被轉換成亞原子粒子噴灑 , 用以前的偵測器和電腦來找出它們的特性 。
this enormous machine the large hadron collider at cern in geneva has a circumference of 17 miles and , when it's operating , draws five times as much power as the city of monterey .	這台巨大的機器 , 日內瓦的大型強子對撞機有17英里的圓圈 , 當它在運作時 , 它的電力和蒙特雷市的電力差不多五倍 。
we can't predict specifically what particles will be produced in any individual collision .	我們不能明確地預測哪些粒子會在任何個別碰撞中產生 。
quantum mechanics tells us all possibilities are realized .	量子力學告訴我們所有可能性 。
but physics does tell us what particles can be produced .	但物理學確實告訴我們哪些粒子能產生什麼 。
these particles must have just as much mass and energy as is carried in by the proton and antiproton .	這些粒子必須有相同的質量和能量 , 就像質子和反粒子一樣 。
any particles more massive than this energy limit aren't produced , and remain invisible to us .	任何比這個能量限制更大的粒子都無法產出 , 且對我們來說保持隱形 。
this is why this new particle accelerator is so exciting .	這就是為什麼這個新粒子加速器這麼令人興奮 。
it's going to push this energy limit seven times beyond what's ever been done before , so we're going to get to see some new particles very soon .	它會把能源限制在過去七倍之外 , 所以我們很快就會看到一些新粒子 。
but before talking about what we might see , let me describe the particles we already know of .	但在談談我們可能看到的之前 , 讓我描述一下我們已經知道的粒子 。
there's a whole zoo of subatomic particles .	有一大堆亞原子粒子 。
most of us are familiar with electrons .	我們大部分人都熟悉電子 。
a lot of people in this room make a good living pushing them around .	在這間房間裡 , 很多人會做一個好的活力推動他們 。
but the electron also has a neutral partner called the neutrino , with no electric charge and a very tiny mass .	但電子也有中性伴侶 , 叫做中子 , 沒有電荷和一個非常小的質量 。
in contrast , the upanddown quarks have very large masses , and combine in threes to make the protons and neutrons inside atoms .	相較之下 , 上方的夸克有很大的質量 , 三者結合 , 讓質子和中子在原子裡面 。
all of these matter particles come in left and righthanded varieties , and have antiparticle partners that carry opposite charges .	所有這些物質粒子都出現在左右 , 各式各樣的反粒子 , 帶著相反載荷的反粒子 。
these familiar particles also have less familiar second and third generations , which have the same charges as the first but have much higher masses .	這些熟悉的粒子也比較不熟悉的第二代和第三代 , 和第一代相同的載荷 , 但質量較高 。
these matter particles all interact with the various force particles .	這些物質粒子都與不同的力粒子互動 。
the electromagnetic force interacts with electrically charged matter via particles called photons .	電磁力會透過稱為光子的粒子 , 與電導電物質互動 。
there is also a very weak force called , rather unimaginatively , the weak force , that interacts only with lefthanded matter .	還有一種非常微弱的力量 , 叫做 「 虛弱的力量 」 , 只和左撇子有所互動 。
the strong force acts between quarks which carry a different kind of charge , called color charge , and come in three different varieties: red , green and blue .	夸克之間的強力作用 , 帶著不同的載荷 , 叫做顏色載荷 , 三種不同的品種:紅、綠和藍 。
you can blame murray gellmann for these names they're his fault .	你可以怪murraygellmann , 他們是他的錯 。
finally , there's the force of gravity , which interacts with matter via its mass and spin .	最後 , 重力的力量是透過質量和旋轉的物質相互作用的 。
the most important thing to understand here is that there's a different kind of charge associated with each of these forces .	最重要的是 , 每一股力量都有不同的載荷 。
these four different forces interact with matter according to the corresponding charges that each particle has .	這四種不同的力量相互作用 , 根據每個粒子都有的相對載荷 。
a particle that hasn't been seen yet , but we're pretty sure exists , is the higgs particle , which gives masses to all these other particles .	目前還沒見過的粒子 , 但我們非常確定存在 , 是希格斯粒子 , 它給了所有其他粒子的質量 。
the main purpose of the large hadron collider is to see this higgs particle , and we're almost certain it will .	大型強子對撞機的主要目的是看到希格斯粒子 , 我們幾乎確定它會 。
but the greatest mystery is what else we might see .	但最大的謎團是我們還能看到的 。
and i'm going to show you one beautiful possibility towards the end of this talk .	我要給你們看一段美麗的可能性 , 讓你們看看這場演說的尾聲 。
now , if we count up all these different particles using their various spins and charges , there are 226 .	現在 , 如果我們用不同的旋轉和載荷計算所有不同的粒子 , 會有226個 。
that's a lot of particles to keep track of .	要追蹤很多粒子 。
and it seems strange that nature would have so many elementary particles .	大自然會有這麼多的基本粒子 。
but if we plot them out according to their charges , some beautiful patterns emerge .	但如果我們根據他們的指控來繪製它們 , 有些美麗的圖案就會浮現出來 。
the most familiar charge is electric charge .	最熟悉的電荷就是電荷 。
electrons have an electric charge , a negative one , and quarks have electric charges in thirds .	電子有電荷 , 負電荷 , 夸克有三分之一的電荷 。
so when two up quarks and a down quark are combined to make a proton , it has a total electric charge of plus one .	所以當兩個上方的夸克和一個下夸克結合成一個質子時 , 總電荷加上1 。
these particles also have antiparticles , which have opposite charges .	這些粒子也有反粒子 , 有相反的載荷 。
now , it turns out the electric charge is actually a combination of two other charges: hypercharge and weak charge .	結果發現 , 電荷其實是兩種載荷的組合:超荷和弱荷 。
if we spread out the hypercharge and weak charge and plot the charges of particles in this twodimensional charge space , the electric charge is where these particles sit along the vertical direction .	如果我們把超連結和弱載荷散開 , 並在這個二維載荷空間中畫出粒子的載荷 , 電荷就是這些粒子在垂直方向的位置 。
the electromagnetic and weak forces interact with matter according to their hypercharge and weak charge , which make this pattern .	電磁力和弱力相互作用 , 根據他們的超連結和弱荷 , 產生這種模式 。
this is called the unified electroweak model , and it was put together back in 1967 .	這叫做 「 統一的電子爆炸模型 」 , 它在1967年被組合起來 。
the reason most of us are only familiar with electric charge and not both of these is because of the higgs particle .	我們之所以熟悉電荷 , 是因為希格斯粒子 。
the higgs , over here on the left , has a large mass and breaks the symmetry of this electroweak pattern .	左邊的是希格斯 , 有一個很大的質量 , 打破了這次發射模式的對稱性 。
it makes the weak force very weak by giving the weak particles a large mass .	它使弱力非常弱 , 藉由給弱粒子一個大質量 。
since this massive higgs sits along the horizontal direction in this diagram , the photons of electromagnetism remain massless and interact with electric charge along the vertical direction in this charge space .	由於這個巨大的希格斯位於這個圖形的水平方向 , 電磁學的光子仍然沒有質量 , 與電荷在這個載荷空間的垂直方向相互作用 。
so the electromagnetic and weak forces are described by this pattern of particle charges in twodimensional space .	所以電磁力和弱力被二維空間中的粒子載荷所描述 。
we can include the strong force by spreading out its two charge directions and plotting the charges of the force particles in quarks along these directions .	我們可以把強大的力量擴散出兩個載荷方向 , 畫出這些粒子的載荷 。
the charges of all known particles can be plotted in a fourdimensional charge space , and projected down to two dimensions like this so we can see them .	所有已知粒子的載荷可以在四度載荷空間中繪製 , 投射到像這樣的二維空間 , 這樣我們就能看見它們 。
whenever particles interact , nature keeps things in a perfect balance along all four of these charge directions .	每當粒子相互作用時 , 大自然就會在四個載荷方向中保持完美的平衡 。
if a particle and an antiparticle collide , it creates a burst of energy and a total charge of zero in all four charge directions .	如果粒子和反粒子相撞 , 它會產生能量爆炸 , 總共有四個載荷方向 。
at this point , anything can be created as long as it has the same energy and maintains a total charge of zero .	在這個時點 , 任何東西都可以產生 , 只要它有相同的能量 , 維持總量的0 。
for example , this weak force particle and its antiparticle can be created in a collision .	例如 , 這種弱力粒子和它的反粒子在碰撞中產生 。
in further interactions , the charges must always balance .	在更進一步的互動中 , 載荷必須總是平衡 。
one of the weak particles could decay into an electron and an antineutrino , and these three still add to zero total charge .	其中一個微弱的粒子會腐爛成電子和一個反中子 , 這三種仍然加上零載荷 。
nature always keeps a perfect balance .	大自然總是保持完美的平衡 。
so these patterns of charges are not just pretty .	所以這些載荷的模式不僅很漂亮 。
they tell us what interactions are allowed to happen .	他們告訴我們什麼是互動的發生 。
and we can rotate this charge space in four dimensions to get a better look at the strong interaction , which has this nice hexagonal symmetry .	我們可以在四度空間中旋轉載荷空間 , 來更好地看一下強大的互動 , 這種對稱性很棒 。
in a strong interaction , a strong force particle , such as this one , interacts with a colored quark , such as this green one , to give a quark with a different color charge this red one .	在強力的互動中 , 強力粒子 , 例如這個 , 與有色的夸克互動 , 例如這個綠色的方塊 , 給夸克一個不同的顏色載荷 。
and strong interactions are happening millions of times each second in every atom of our bodies , holding the atomic nuclei together .	強烈的互動每秒鐘都會發生數百萬次在我們身體的每個原子中 , 將原子核結合在一起 。
but these four charges corresponding to three forces are not the end of the story .	但這四個載荷對應三種力量並不是故事的結局 。
we can also include two more charges corresponding to the gravitational force .	我們還可以再加上兩個載荷 , 與重力相對應 。
when we include these , each matter particle has two different spin charges , spinup and spindown .	當我們把它們納入其中 , 每個粒子都有兩個不同的旋轉 , 旋轉和旋轉 。
so they all split , and give a nice pattern in sixdimensional charge space .	所以它們都分裂了 , 在六度載荷空間中 , 給出一個很好的圖案 。
we can rotate this pattern in six dimensions , and see that it's quite pretty .	我們可以在六度空間中旋轉這個模式 , 看看它相當漂亮 。
right now , this pattern matches our best current knowledge of how nature is built at the tiny scales of these elementary particles .	目前 , 這種模式符合我們目前最好的知識 , 了解大自然是如何在這些基本粒子的小尺度上建造出來的 。
this is what we know for certain .	這就是我們所知道的 。
some of these particles are at the very limit of what we've been able to reach with experiments .	有些粒子正處於非常極限的實驗中 。
from this pattern , we already know the particle physics of these tiny scales . the way the universe works with these tiny scales is very beautiful .	從這個圖案中 , 我們已經知道這些小尺度的粒子物理 。 宇宙與這些微小的尺度合作的方式非常漂亮 。
but now i'm going to discuss some new and old ideas about things we don't know yet .	但現在我要討論一些我們還不知道的新想法 。
we want to expand this pattern using mathematics alone , and see if we can get our hands on the whole enchilada .	我們只想用數學來拓展這個模式 , 看看我們能不能掌握整個enchilada的手 。
we want to find all the particles and forces that make a complete picture of our universe .	我們想要找到所有的粒子和力 , 讓整個宇宙的全貌 。
and we want to use this picture to predict new particles that we'll see when experiments reach higher energies .	我們想要用這張照片來預測新粒子當實驗達到更高的能量時 。
so there's an old idea in particle physics that this known pattern of charges , which is not very symmetric , could emerge from a more perfect pattern that gets broken similar to how the higgs particle breaks the electroweak pattern to give electromagnetism .	在粒子物理學中有一個古老的想法 , 這種已知的載荷模式 , 不對稱 , 可以從一個更完美的模式中浮現出來 , 讓希格斯粒子斷裂 , 讓電磁體產生電磁性 。
in order to do this , we need to introduce new forces with new charge directions .	為了做到這一點 , 我們需要用新的載荷方向介紹新力量 。
when we introduce a new direction , we get to guess what charges the particles have along this direction , and then we can rotate it in with the others .	當我們介紹一個新的方向時 , 我們會猜測這些粒子的載荷方向 , 然後我們可以和其他的粒子旋轉 。
if we guess wisely , we can construct the standard charges in six charge dimensions as a broken symmetry of this more perfect pattern in seven charge dimensions .	假如我們有智慧 , 我們可以在六度載荷中建立標準載荷 , 在七度載荷的對稱中 , 建立一個更完美的模式 。
this particular choice corresponds to a grand unified theory introduced by pati and salam in 1973 .	在1973年 , 這個特殊的選擇對應了1973年由pati和salam所引導 。
when we look at this new unified pattern , we can see a couple of gaps where particles seem to be missing .	當我們看這個新的統一模式時 , 我們可以看到粒子似乎缺少了幾個落差 。
this is the way theories of unification work .	這就是統一理論的運作方式 。
a physicist looks for larger , more symmetric patterns that include the established pattern as a subset .	物理學家尋求更大、更對稱的模式 , 把既有的模式當作一個子組 。
the larger pattern allows us to predict the existence of particles that have never been seen .	更大的模式讓我們能夠預測從未見過的粒子存在 。
this unification model predicts the existence of these two new force particles , which should act a lot like the weak force , only weaker .	這個統一模型預測了這兩種新力粒子的存在 , 應該要像弱力一樣 , 只會變弱 。
now we can rotate this set of charges in seven dimensions and consider an odd fact about the matter particles: the second and third generations of matter have exactly the same charges in sixdimensional charge space as the first generation .	現在 , 我們可以在七度空間中旋轉載荷 , 考慮到物質粒子的奇怪事實:第二代和第三代物質在六度載荷空間中有完全相同的載荷 。
these particles are not uniquely identified by their six charges .	這些粒子沒有獨特辨識出它們的六個載荷 。
they sit on top of one another in the standard charge space .	他們坐在標準載荷空間的另一端 。
however , if we work in eightdimensional charge space , then we can assign unique new charges to each particle .	然而 , 如果我們在八度載荷空間中工作 , 那麼我們就能將獨特的新載荷分配給每個粒子 。
then we can spin these in eight dimensions , and see what the whole pattern looks like .	接著 , 我們可以在八度空間中旋轉 , 看看整體的圖案是什麼樣子 。
here we can see the second and third generations of matter now related to the first generation by a symmetry called " triality . "	在這裡 , 我們可以看到第二代和第三代的物質 , 與第一個世代的對稱性有關 , 叫做 「 試驗 」 。
this particular pattern of charges in eight dimensions is actually part of the most beautiful geometric structure in mathematics .	在八度空間中 , 這種特殊的載荷是數學中最美麗的幾何結構之一 。
it's a pattern of the largest exceptional lie group , e8 .	這是最大的例外謊言團體 , e8 。
this lie group is a smooth , curved shape with 248 dimensions .	這個謊言團體是平滑的曲線形狀有248度的維度
each point in this pattern corresponds to a symmetry of this very complex and beautiful shape .	這個圖案中的每個點都對應著這個非常複雜且美麗的形狀 。
one small part of this e8 shape can be used to describe the curved spacetime of einstein's general relativity , explaining gravity .	這個e8形狀的一小部分可以用來描述愛因斯坦廣義相對論的曲線 , 解釋重力 。
together with quantum mechanics , the geometry of this shape could describe everything about how the universe works at the tiniest scales .	隨著量子力學 , 這個形狀的幾何圖形可以描述宇宙如何在最小的尺度上運作 。
the pattern of this shape living in eightdimensional charge space is exquisitely beautiful , and it summarizes thousands of possible interactions between these elementary particles , each of which is just a facet of this complicated shape .	這種形狀在八度載荷空間中生存的模式是非常美麗的 , 它總結了數以千計的基本粒子之間的交互作用 , 每一種都只是面對這種複雜的形狀 。
as we spin it , we can see many of the other intricate patterns contained in this one .	當我們旋轉時 , 我們可以看到許多其他複雜的圖案 , 包含在這個圖案中 。
and with a particular rotation , we can look down through this pattern in eight dimensions along a symmetry axis and see all the particles at once .	通過一個特定的旋轉 , 我們可以從這八度的角度看下去 , 在對稱軸上 , 一次看到所有粒子 。
it's a very beautiful object , and as with any unification , we can see some holes where new particles are required by this pattern .	它是一個非常美麗的物品 , 就像任何一致性的物體一樣 , 我們可以看到一些由這種模式所需的新粒子 。
there are 20 gaps where new particles should be , two of which have been filled by the patisalam particles .	新粒子應該有20個缺口 , 其中兩個是帕帕帕拉姆粒子填滿的 。
from their location in this pattern , we know that these new particles should be scalar fields like the higgs particle , but have color charge and interact with the strong force .	從這些圖案的位置我們知道這些新粒子應該是像希格斯粒子一樣的大小但有顏色的載荷和強力相互作用
filling in these new particles completes this pattern , giving us the full e8 .	填充這些新粒子 , 完成了這個圖案 , 給我們全部的e8 。
this e8 pattern has very deep mathematical roots .	這個e8模式有很深的數學根 。
it's considered by many to be the most beautiful structure in mathematics .	它被許多人認為是數學中最美麗的結構 。
it's a fantastic prospect that this object of great mathematical beauty could describe the truth of particle interactions at the smallest scales imaginable .	這個偉大的數學美的物品可以描述粒子相互作用的真相在最小尺度可以想像的
and this idea that nature is described by mathematics is not at all new .	大自然是用數學來描述的 , 並不是全新的 。
in 1623 , galileo wrote this: " nature's grand book , which stands continually open to our gaze , is written in the language of mathematics .	1623年 , 伽利略寫了這句話: 「 大自然的大書 , 一直在我們的視線上展開 , 寫在數學的語言中 。
its characters are triangles , circles and other geometrical figures , without which it is humanly impossible to understand a single word of it ; without these , one is wandering around in a dark labyrinth . "	它的角色是三角形、圓形 , 和其他幾何圖形 , 若沒有它 , 就不可能明白它的單字 ; 若沒有這些 , 就會在黑暗的迷宮中四處遊蕩 。 」
i believe this to be true , and i've tried to follow galileo's guidance in describing the mathematics of particle physics using only triangles , circles and other geometrical figures .	我相信這是真的 , 我試著遵循伽利略的指引 , 用粒子物理學的數學 , 只用三角形、圓形和其他幾何圖形 。
of course , when other physicists and i actually work on this stuff , the mathematics can resemble a dark labyrinth .	當然 , 當其他物理學家和我真的在研究這些東西時 , 數學可以是黑暗的迷宮 。
but it's reassuring that at the heart of this mathematics is pure , beautiful geometry .	但 , 要確保數學的核心是純粹、美麗的幾何學 。
joined with quantum mechanics , this mathematics describes our universe as a growing e8 coral , with particles interacting at every location in all possible ways according to a beautiful pattern .	加入量子力學 , 這個數學描述了我們的宇宙 , 隨著成長的e8珊瑚 , 粒子在每個位置相互作用 , 根據美麗的圖案來描述宇宙 。
and as more of the pattern comes into view using new machines like the large hadron collider , we may be able to see whether nature uses this e8 pattern or a different one .	隨著越來越多的模式使用大型強子對撞機 , 我們可能會看到大自然是否使用e8模式 , 或另一個 。
this process of discovery is a wonderful adventure to be involved in .	這項發現的過程是一段很棒的冒險旅程 。
if the lhc finds particles that fit this e8 pattern , that will be very , very cool .	如果lhc找到符合e8模式的粒子 , 那會非常、非常、非常酷 。
if the lhc finds new particles , but they don't fit this pattern well , that will be very interesting , but bad for this e8 theory .	如果lhc找到新粒子 , 但它們不符合這個模式 , 那對e8理論來說是很有意思的 。
and , of course , bad for me personally .	當然 , 對我個人來說是壞的 。
now how bad would that be ?	那會多糟 ?
well , pretty bad .	嗯 , 非常糟糕 。
but predicting how nature works is a very risky game .	但預測大自然是非常危險的遊戲 。
this theory and others like it are long shots .	這個理論和其他類似的理論都很長 。
one does a lot of hard work knowing that most of these ideas probably won't end up being true about nature .	其中一份工作很辛苦 , 知道大部分的思想最終不會是對大自然的真實 。
that's what doing theoretical physics is like: there are a lot of wipeouts .	理論物理就是這樣:有很多野生動物 。
in this regard , new physics theories are a lot like startup companies .	在這方面 , 新的物理理論就像新創公司一樣 。
as with any large investment , it can be emotionally difficult to abandon a line of research when it isn't working out .	只要有大額投資 , 就可能很難放棄一系列的研究 。
but in science , if something isn't working , you have to toss it out and try something else .	但在科學上 , 如果有些東西沒有用 , 你就必須去嘗試其他東西 。
now , the only way to maintain sanity and achieve happiness in the midst of this uncertainty is to keep balance and perspective in life .	唯一能維持理智和成就幸福的方法就是維持生活的平衡和觀點 。
i've tried the best i can to live a balanced life .	我盡力去生活平衡生活 。
i try to balance my life equally between physics , love and surfing my own three charge directions .	我試著平衡我的人生 , 包括物理、愛和衝浪我自己三個載荷方向 。
this way , even if the physics i work on comes to nothing , i still know i've lived a good life .	這樣的方式 , 即使我工作的物理完全沒有 , 我仍然知道我過著好的生活 。
and i try to live in beautiful places .	我試著生活在美麗的地方 。
for most of the past ten years i've lived on the island of maui , a very beautiful place .	在過去的十年裡 , 我所居住的大部份時間 , 都位在毛伊島 , 是個非常美麗的地方 。
now it's one of the greatest mysteries in the universe to my parents how i managed to survive all that time without engaging in anything resembling fulltime employment .	現在 , 這是宇宙中最偉大的謎團之一 , 對我父母來說 , 我一直以來都無法全職投入任何全職員工 。
i'm going to let you in on that secret .	我要告訴你們這個秘密 。
this was a view from my home office on maui .	這是我在maui家的家庭辦公室的景象 。
and you may have noticed that these beautiful views are similar , but in slightly different places .	你可能已經注意到這些美麗的景觀是相似的 , 但在一些稍微不同的地方 。
that's because this used to be my home and office on maui .	那是因為這曾經是我在毛伊的家和辦公室 。
i've chosen a very unusual life .	我選擇了非常不尋常的人生 。
but not worrying about rent allowed me to spend my time doing what i love .	但不擔心租金讓我花時間做我所愛的事 。
living a nomadic existence has been hard at times , but it's allowed me to live in beautiful places and keep a balance in my life that i've been happy with .	有時 , 居住遊牧的存在很困難 , 但它讓我能住在美麗的地方 , 保持平衡 , 在我人生中 , 我一直很快樂 。
it allows me to spend a lot of my time hanging out with hyperintelligent coral .	它允許我花很多時間和超級聰明的珊瑚在一起 。
but i also greatly enjoy the company of hyperintelligent people .	但我也很享受超級聰明的人的公司 。
so i'm very happy to have been invited here to ted .	我很高興被邀請來ted 。
chris anderson: i probably understood two percent of that , but i still absolutely loved it . so i'm going to sound dumb .	克里斯•安德森:我大概懂了百分之二 , 但我仍然很喜歡 。 所以我會聽起來很蠢 。
your theory of everything garrett lisi: i'm used to coral .	你的萬物理論:我習慣珊瑚 。
ca: that's right . the reason it's got a few people at least excited is because , if you're right , it brings gravity and quantum theory together .	克里斯:沒錯 。 這裡有幾個人至少感到興奮的原因是 , 如果你是對的 , 它將重力和量子理論結合在一起 。
so are you saying that we should think of the universe , at its heart that the smallest things that there are , are somehow an e8 object of possibility ?	所以 , 你是說 , 我們應該考慮宇宙 , 在它的核心中 , 最小的東西 , 可能性是e8的物體嗎 ?
i mean , is there a scale to it , at the smallest scale , or . . . ?	我的意思是 , 在最小的尺度上 , 是否有規模 ?
gl: well , right now the pattern i showed you that corresponds to what we know about elementary particle physics that already corresponds to a very beautiful shape .	格林:現在 , 我給你們看的模式 , 是對應我們對基本粒子物理的認識 , 已經對應到一個非常漂亮的形狀 。
and that's the one that i said we knew for certain .	這就是我所說的我們知道的 。
and that shape has remarkable similarities and the way it fits into this e8 pattern could be the rest of the picture .	這種形狀有很了不起的相似性 , 以及它適合這個e8圖案的其他部分 , 可能是圖片的其他部分 。
and these patterns of points that i've shown for you actually represent symmetries of this highdimensional object that would be warping and moving and dancing over the space time that we experience .	我向你們展示的這些圖案 , 其實代表了這個高維度物體的對稱性 , 在我們體驗的時空中 , 會扭曲、移動、跳舞 。
and that would be what explains all these elementary particles that we see .	那就是解釋我們所看到的這些基本粒子 。
ca: but a string theorist , as i understand it , explains electrons in terms of much smaller strings vibrating i know you don't like string theory vibrating inside it .	克:但是弦理論學家 , 如我所知 , 解釋電子 , 以更小的弦振動我知道你不喜歡弦理論震動 。
how should we think of an electron in relation to e8 ?	我們該怎麼看待e8的電子呢 ?
gl: no , it would be one of the symmetries of this e8 shape .	蓋爾:不 , 它會是e8形狀的對稱性之一 。
so what's happening is , as the shape is moving over spacetime , it's twisting . and the direction it's twisting as it moves is what particle we see . so it would be ca: the size of the e8 shape , how does that relate to the electron ?	所以 , 當這個形狀在時空移動時 , 它在扭轉 。 當它移動時 , 它的方向是我們看到的粒子 。 所以 , 克里斯:e8形狀的大小 , 和電子的關係如何 ?
i kind of feel like i need that for my picture .	我覺得我需要這張照片 。
is it bigger ? is it smaller ?	變大了嗎 ? 變小嗎 ?
gl: well , as far as we know electrons are point particles , so this would be going down to the smallest possible scales .	蓋瑞:目前我們所知的電子是點粒子 , 所以這會降到最小的可能尺度 。
so the way these things are explained in quantum field theory is , all possibilities are expanding and developing at once .	所以這些東西在量子場理論中解釋的方式是 , 所有可能性同時在擴展和發展中 。
and this is why i use the analogy to coral .	這就是為什麼我用珊瑚的類比 。
and in this way , the way that e8 comes in is it will be as a shape that's attached at each point in spacetime .	以這種方式來看 , e8會出現的方式 , 就是它的形狀 , 在時空中 , 它會是固定的形狀 。
and , as i said , the way the shape twists the directional along which way the shape is twisting as it moves over this curved surface is what the elementary particles are , themselves .	如我所說的 , 形狀的扭曲方向 , 形狀在曲線的表面上扭曲 , 正是基本粒子本身 。
so through quantum field theory , they manifest themselves as points and interact that way .	透過量子場理論 , 他們把自己當作點 , 用這種方式互動 。
i don't know if i'll be able to make this any clearer .	我不知道我能不能讓它更清楚 。
ca: it doesn't really matter .	克:這並不重要 。
it's evoking a kind of sense of wonder , and i certainly want to understand more of this .	它在喚起一種奇妙的感覺 , 我當然想要了解更多 。
but thank you so much for coming . that was absolutely fascinating .	但非常謝謝你來 。 這絕對是令人著迷的 。
the legendary chimpanzee researcher jane goodall talks about tacare and her other community projects , which help people in booming african towns live sidebyside with threatened animals .	傳奇的黑猩猩研究員珍•古德爾談到坦貝爾和她的其他社區計畫 , 協助非洲小鎮居住在邊緣 , 威脅動物 。
africa , animals , biodiversity , environment , global issues , pollution , primates , science	非洲、動物、生物多樣性、環境、全球議題、污染、靈長類、科學、科學等 。
jane goodall helps humans and animals live together	珍•古德幫助人類和動物一起生活
good afternoon , good evening , whatever .	午安 , 晚安 , 等等 。
we can go , jambo , guten abend , bonsoir , but we can also ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh .	我們可以去 , 珍博 , 吉他 , 波諾 , 我們也可以 , 喔 , ~ ~ 噢 , 喔 ~ ~ ~ ~ 喔 ~ ~ ~ 喔 ~ ~ 喔 ~ ~ 喔 ~ ~ ~ 喔 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
that is the call that chimpanzees make before they go to sleep in the evening .	這是黑猩猩在晚上睡覺前所發出的通訊 。
you hear it going from one side of the valley to the other , from one group of nests to the next .	從山谷的一邊到另一邊 , 從一群巢穴到下一個 。
and i want to pick up with my talk this evening from where zeray left off yesterday .	今天晚上 , 我想從昨天zeray離開的地方來談談談我的演講 。
he was talking about this amazing , threeyearold australopithecine child , selam .	他在談論這個驚人的三歲的澳洲流行病童 , 塞拉姆 。
and we've also been hearing about the history , the family tree , of mankind through dna genetic profiling .	我們也聽說過歷史、家庭樹 , 透過dna獲利 , 人類的資料 。
and it was a paleontologist , the late louis leakey , who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees .	這是古生物學家 , 最近路易斯.雷克 , 他讓我踏上研究黑猩猩的道路 。
and it was pretty extraordinary , way back then .	那時候是非常了不起的 。
it's kind of commonplace now , but his argument was because he'd been searching for the fossilized remains of early humans in africa .	現在有點普遍 , 但他的論點是因為他一直在尋找非洲早期人類的化石 。
and you can tell an awful lot about what those beings looked like from the fossils , from the shape of the muscle attachments , something about the way they lived from the various artifacts found with them .	你可以從化石中看出這些生物的樣貌 , 從肌肉附著的形狀 , 看他們從各式各樣的工藝品中生活的方式 。
but what about how they behaved ? that's what he wanted to know .	但他們怎麼做呢 ? 這是他想要知道的 。
and of course , behavior doesn't fossilize .	當然 , 行為不會化石 。
he argued and it's now a fairly common theory that if we found behavior patterns similar or the same in our closest living relatives , the great apes , and humans today , then maybe those behaviors were present in the apelike , humanlike ancestor some seven million years ago .	他主張和現在是一個相當常見的理論如果我們在近壽的親戚身上找到相似或相同的行為模式或是人類今日的偉大猿類和人類 , 也許這些行為在七百萬年前出現 , 像是人類的祖先 。
and therefore , perhaps we had brought those characteristics with us from that ancient , ancient past .	因此 , 也許我們從古老、古老的過去帶給了我們這些特質 。
well , if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution , you very often find people speculating about how early humans may have behaved , based on the behavior of chimpanzees .	嗯 , 如果你看看現今的教科書 , 處理人類演化 , 你通常會發現人們推測早期人類的行為 , 基於黑猩猩的行為 。
they are more like us than any other living creature , and we've heard about that during this ted conference .	它們比任何其他生物更像我們 , 在ted會議中 , 我們也都聽過這種說法 。
so it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzees are so like us , in certain aspects of their behavior .	所以 , 我一直在評論黑猩猩和我們一樣的行為 。 在某些方面 , 黑猩猩是如此相似 。
every chimpanzee has his or her own personality .	每隻黑猩猩都有自己的個性 。
of course , i gave them names . they can live to be 60 years or more , although we think most of them probably don't make it to 60 in the wild .	當然 , 我給他們名字 。 他們可以活到60年或更多 , 雖然我們認為大部分的人可能不會在野外製造到60歲 。
mr . wurzel . the female has her first baby when she's 11 or 12 .	沃茲先生 , 雌蟲在11或12歲時有她的第一個寶寶 。
thereafter , she has one baby only every five or six years , a long period of childhood dependency when the child is nursing , sleeping with the mother at night , and riding on her back .	在那裡 , 她每五到六年就有一個嬰兒 , 一個長期的童年依賴 , 當孩子在養育時 , 晚上和母親一起睡覺 , 騎著她的背 。
and we believe that this long period of childhood is important for chimpanzees , just as it is for us , in relation to learning .	我們相信這段長期的童年對黑猩猩來說很重要 , 就如同對我們而言 , 與學習有關 。
as the brain becomes ever more complex during evolution in different forms of animals , so we find that learning plays an ever more important role in an individual's life history .	隨著大腦在演化過程中變得更複雜 , 所以我們發現學習在個人的生命史上扮演著更重要的角色 。
and young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do .	年輕的黑猩猩花了很多時間觀察牠們的長輩們做了什麼 。
we know now that they're capable of imitating behaviors that they see .	我們現在知道它們能夠模仿它們所看到的行為 。
and we believe that it's in this way that the different toolusing behaviors that have now been seen in all the different chimpanzee populations studied in africa how these are passed from one generation to the next , through observation , imitation and practice , so that we can describe these toolusing behaviors as primitive culture .	我們相信 , 這種方式 , 這種不同的工具行為 , 如今在非洲各地的黑猩猩群體都在研究這些世代 , 透過觀察、模仿和練習 , 我們就能把這些工具行為描述成原始文化 。
chimpanzees don't have a spoken language . we've talked about that .	黑猩猩沒有口語 , 我們已經談過了 。
they do have a very rich repertoire of postures and gestures , many of which are similar , or even identical , to ours and formed in the same context . greeting chimpanzees embracing .	他們確實有非常豐富的姿勢 , 其中許多類似 , 甚至相同 , 形成同一個情境 。 希臘黑猩猩擁抱 。
they also kiss , hold hands , pat one another on the back .	他們也親吻、握手、拍下彼此 。
and they swagger and they throw rocks .	然後他們轉動 , 扔石頭 。
in chimpanzee society , we find many , many examples of compassion , precursors to love and true altruism .	在黑猩猩社會中 , 我們發現許多關於同情心的例子 , 前輩們去愛和真正的利他主義 。
unfortunately , they , like us , have a dark side to their nature .	不幸的是 , 他們和我們一樣 , 有一面漆黑的天性 。
they're capable of extreme brutality , even a kind of primitive war .	他們有能力極端殘暴 , 甚至一種原始的戰爭 。
and these really aggressive behaviors , for the most part , are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group .	而這些非常具侵略性的行為 , 大部分的原因是針對鄰近社會群體的個人 。
they are very territorially aggressive .	它們非常的具攻擊性 。
chimpanzees , i believe , more than any other living creature , have helped us to understand that , after all , there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom .	我相信 , 比起其他生物 , 黑猩猩已經幫助我們了解 , 畢竟 , 人類和其他動物王國之間沒有尖銳的線 。
it's a very blurry line , and it's getting more blurry all the time as we make even more observations .	這是一條非常模糊的線 , 當我們做更多的觀察時 , 它會變得更模糊 。
the study that i began in 1960 is still continuing to this day .	我1960年開始的研究仍然持續著 。
and these chimpanzees , living their complex social lives in the wild , have helped more than anything else to make us realize we are part of , and not separated from , the amazing animals with whom we share the planet .	這些黑猩猩 , 在野外生活著複雜的社會生活 , 已經幫助我們了解到我們是其中的一部分 , 而不是分離 , 我們共享地球的神奇動物 。
so it's pretty sad to find that chimpanzees , like so many other creatures around the world , are losing their habitats .	所以 , 很可悲的是 , 發現黑猩猩 , 就像世界上許多其他生物一樣 , 正在失去牠們的棲息地 。
this is just one photograph from the air , and it shows you the forested highlands of gombe .	這只是空氣中的一張照片 , 它告訴你森林的高地 。
and it was when i flew over the whole area , about 16 years ago , and realized that outside the park , this forest , which in 1960 had stretched almost unbroken along the eastern shore of lake tanganyika , which is where the tiny , 30squaremile gombe national park lies , that a question came to my mind .	大約16年前 , 我飛越整個區域 , 發現在公園外面的森林 , 在1960年 , 這片森林幾乎在塔吉尼卡的東岸幾乎沒有破壞 , 那裡有三十四平方的山羊公園 , 來到我的腦海 。
" how can we even try to save these famous chimpanzees , when the people living around the national park are struggling to survive ? "	「 我們要如何拯救這些著名的黑猩猩 ? 當住在國家公園附近的人們在掙扎生存的時候 ? 」
more people are living there than the land could possibly support .	比起土地能支持更多人 。
the numbers increased by refugees pouring in from burundi and over the lake from congo .	難民的數量增加 , 來自緬甸和剛果湖的數量 。
and very poor people they couldn't afford to buy food from elsewhere .	非常貧窮的人買不起其他地方的食物 。
this led to a program , which we call tacare .	這導致了一個計畫 , 我們稱之為tacare 。
it's a very holistic way of improving the lives of the people living in the villages around the park .	這是一種非常全面的方法來改善住在公園周圍的村民的生活 。
it started small with 12 villages . it's now in 24 .	它從12個村落開始 , 現在是24歲 。
there isn't time to go into it , but it's including things like tree nurseries , methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded , almost desertlike land up in these mountains .	沒有時間深入探討 , 但包括樹木護理師的方法 , 這種農業最適合目前的水準非常惡劣 , 幾乎像沙漠般降落在這些山上 。
ways of controlling , preventing soil erosion .	控制的方式 , 防止土壤侵蝕 。
ways of reclaiming overused farmland , so that within two years they can again be productive .	重建過度使用的農地方法 , 所以在兩年內 , 它們能再次發揮生產力 。
working to help the villagers obtain fresh water from wells .	努力協助村民從井裡取得淡水 。
perhaps build some schoolrooms .	也許建造一些學校室 。
most important of all , i believe , is working with small groups of women , providing them with opportunities for microcredit loans .	最重要的是 , 我相信 , 和一小群婦女合作 , 提供她們給微額貸款的機會 。
and we've got , as is the case around the world , about 95 percent of all loans returned .	我們有 , 如同全世界的案例 , 大約有95%的貸款回報 。
empowering women , working with education , providing scholarships for girls so they can finish secondary school , in the clear understanding that , all around the world , as women's education improves , family size drops .	賦予女性權力 , 和教育合作 , 提供獎學金給女孩們 , 讓他們可以完成二年級的學校 , 清楚明白 , 世界各地 , 隨著女性的教育改善 , 家庭規模降低 。
we provide information about family planning and about hiv/aids .	我們提供家庭規劃和愛滋病的資訊 。
and as a result of this program , something's happening for conservation .	由於這個計畫 , 保育計畫發生了什麼事 。
what's happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages , instead of looking on us as a bunch of white people coming to study a whole bunch of monkeys and by the way , many of the staff are now tanzanian but when we began the tacare program , it was a tanzanian team going into the villages .	保育的原因是 , 那些住在24個村落的農民 , 而不是把我們當成一群白人來研究一群猴子 , 順道一提 , 許多員工現在已經是坦尚尼亞人 , 但當我們開始計劃時 , 這是坦尚尼亞人進入村落 。
it was a tanzanian team talking to the villagers , asking what they were interested in .	那是坦尚尼亞的團隊和村民對話 , 問他們感興趣的是什麼 。
were they interested in conservation ? absolutely not .	他們對保育有興趣嗎 ? 絕對不是 。
they were interested in health ; they were interested in education .	他們對健康有興趣 , 他們對教育有興趣 。
and as time went on , and as their situation began to improve , they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation .	隨著時間過去 , 他們的情況開始改善 , 他們開始更了解保育的需求 。
they began to understand that as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees , so you've got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides .	他們開始了解 , 隨著山丘上升的水平被破壞了 , 所以你有種可怕的土壤侵蝕和泥土 。
today , we are developing what we call the greater gombe ecosystem .	現今 , 我們正在發展所謂的更大的gombe生態系統 。
this is an area way outside the national park , stretching out into all these very degraded lands .	這是國家公園外面的一個地區 , 延伸到這些非常退化的土地上 。
and as these villages have a better standard of life , they are actually agreeing to put between 10 percent and 20 percent of their land in the highlands aside , so that once again , as the trees grow back , the chimpanzees will have leafy corridors through which they can travel to interact as they must for genetic viability with other remnant groups outside the national park .	當這些村落有更好的生活標準時 , 他們其實同意把百分之十到二十的土地放到高地 , 所以再一次 , 隨著樹木長回來 , 黑猩猩會透過這些小猩猩的走廊 , 牠們可以和國家公園外的其他殘留族群互動 。
so tacare is a success .	所以 , 塔卡爾是個成功 。
we're replicating it in other parts of africa , around other wilderness areas which are faced with extreme population pressure .	我們在非洲的其他地方複製它 , 其它的荒野區域面臨極端人口壓力 。
the problems in africa , however , as we've been discussing for the whole of these first couple of days of ted , are major problems .	然而 , 非洲的問題 , 正如我們一直在討論ted的前幾天 , 都是重大的問題 。
there is a great deal of poverty .	有很大的貧窮 。
and when you get large numbers of people living in land that is not that fertile , particularly when you cut down trees , and you leave the soil open to the wind for erosion , as desperate populations cut down more and more trees , so that they can try and grow food for themselves and their families , what's going to happen ? something's got to give .	當你有大量的居民住在土地上 , 尤其是當你砍樹時 , 你將土壤開放給風力侵蝕 , 如絕望的人口砍下越來越多的樹木 , 這樣他們就可以為自己和家人種種食物 , 會發生什麼事 ?
and the other problems in not only africa , but the rest of the developing world and , indeed , everywhere what are we doing to our planet ?	另外一個問題 , 不僅是非洲 , 其他發展中國家 , 並且 , 不論我們對地球做了什麼事 ?
you know , the famous scientist , e . o . wilson said that if every person on this planet attains the standard of living of the average european or american , we need three new planets .	你知道的 , 著名的科學家e.wilson說 , 如果地球上每個人都能維持平均歐洲或美國人的生活水準 , 我們需要三個新的行星 。
today , they are saying four . but we don't have them . we've got one .	今天 , 他們說的是四個 。 但是我們沒有 。 我們有一個 。
and what's happened ? i mean , the question here is , here we are , arguably the most intelligent being that's ever walked planet earth , with this extraordinary brain , capable of the kind of technology that is so well illustrated by these ted conferences , and yet we're destroying the only home we have .	發生了什麼事 ? 我的意思是 , 問題是 , 這裡 , 我們的確是地球上最有智慧的生物 , 帶著這個非凡的大腦 , 能夠被ted會議所描述的科技所描繪出來 , 但我們卻在摧毀我們唯一的家園 。
the indigenous people around the world , before they made a major decision , used to sit around and ask themselves , " how does this decision affect our people seven generations ahead ? "	世界各地的原住民 , 在他們做了重大決定之前 , 常常會自問: 「 這個決定會如何影響我們的七代人 ? 」
today , major decisions and i'm not particularly talking about africa here , but the developed world major decisions involving millions of dollars , and millions of people , are often based on , " how will this affect the next shareholders' meeting ? "	現今 , 主要的決策──我不是特別談論非洲 , 而是已開發國家的決策──數百萬美元 , 數百萬人 , 通常是基於: 「 這會如何影響下一個股東會議 ? 」
and these decisions affect africa .	這些決定會影響非洲 。
as i began traveling around africa talking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests , i realized more and more how so many of africa's problems could be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation .	當我開始在非洲四處旅行時 , 談到黑猩猩和牠們消失的森林 , 我發現越來越多非洲問題在以前殖民地剝削的門口 。
so i began traveling outside africa , talking in europe , talking in the united states , going to asia .	所以我開始在非洲外行走 , 在歐洲 , 和美國談話 , 去亞洲 。
and everywhere there were these terrible problems .	到處都有這些可怕的問題 。
and you know the kind i'm talking about . i'm talking about pollution .	你們都知道我在說什麼 。 我在說污染 。
the air that we breathe that often poisons us .	我們呼吸的空氣通常會毒害我們 。
the earth is poisoning our foods .	地球正在毒害我們的食物 。
the water water is perhaps one of the most crucial issues that we're going to face in this century and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural , industrial and household chemicals that still are being sprayed around the world , seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience .	水可能是我們在這個世紀所面臨的最關鍵議題之一 , 水被農業、工業和家庭污染 , 仍然被世界各地的化學物所污染 , 似乎沒有辦法從過去的經驗中獲利 。
the mangroves are being cut down ; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse .	紅樹林被砍伐 ; 海嘯的影響會更糟 。
we've talked about the soil erosion .	我們談過土壤侵蝕 。
we have the reckless burning of fossil fuels along with other greenhouse gasses , so called , leading to climate change .	我們的燃燒化石燃料還有其他溫室氣體 , 所以 , 導致氣候變遷 。
finally , all around the world , people have begun to believe that there is something going on very wrong with our climate .	最後 , 全世界的人都開始相信我們的氣候有一些問題 。
all around the world climates are mixed up .	世界各地的氣候都混合起來了 。
and it's the poor people who are affected worse .	貧窮的人會受到更嚴重的影響 。
it's africa that already is affected .	非洲已經受到影響 。
in many parts of subsaharan africa , the droughts are so much worse .	在撒哈拉以南非洲的許多地區 , 乾旱更糟 。
and when the rain does come , it so often leads to flooding and added distress , and the cycle of poverty and hunger and disease .	當雨季來臨時 , 它通常會造成洪水、加入痛苦 , 以及貧窮、飢餓和疾病的循環 。
and the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support , who are too poor to buy food , who can't move away because the whole land is degraded .	居住的地區的人數不多 , 無法支援 , 他們太貧窮 , 無法離開 , 因為整片土地被破壞了 。
and so you get desertification creeping , creeping , creeping as the last of the trees are cut down .	所以你會得到沙漠化的珊瑚礁、珊瑚礁 , 隨著最後一棵樹被砍掉 。
and this kind of thing is not just in africa . it's all over the world .	這種東西不只在非洲 , 世界各地都有 。
so it wasn't surprising to me that as i was traveling around the world i met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope .	所以 , 我並不意外 , 當我在世界各地旅行時 , 我遇到許多年輕人 , 他們似乎失去了希望 。
we seem to have lost wisdom , the wisdom of the indigenous people .	我們似乎失去了智慧 , 原住民的智慧 。
i asked a question . " why ? "	我問了一個問題: 「 為什麼 ? 」
well , do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain , the kind of brain that the ted technologies exemplify , and the human heart ? talking about it in the nonscientific term , in terms of love and compassion . is there some disconnect ?	嗯 , 你認為在這種非比尋常聰明的大腦之間是否有某種程度的差異 ? ted科技的出現和人的心 ? 以非科學的角度來說 , 在愛和同理心之間 , 是否有某種差異 ?
and these young people , when i talk to them , basically they were either depressed or apathetic , or bitter and angry . and they said more or less the same thing , " we feel this way because we feel you've compromised our future and there's nothing we can do about it . "	這些年輕人 , 當我跟他們說話時 , 基本上 , 他們不是憂鬱、冷靜、苦痛、憤怒 。 他們說的 , 或多或少是同樣的話: 「 我們會這樣感覺 , 因為我們覺得你已經妥協了我們的未來 , 我們什麼都做不了 。 」
we have compromised their future .	我們已經破壞了他們的未來 。
i've got three little grandchildren , and every time i look at them and i think how we've harmed this beautiful planet since i was their age , i feel this desperation .	我有三個小孫子 , 每當我看著她們時 , 我想我們如何傷害這個美麗的星球 , 從我年紀開始 , 我感受到絕望 。
and that led to this program we call roots and shoots , which began right here in tanzania and has now spread to 97 countries around the world .	這導致了我們稱之為根和芽的計畫 , 開始於坦尚尼亞 , 現在已經擴展到全世界97個國家 。
it's symbolic . roots make a firm foundation .	它是象徵性的 。 樹根製造了一間公司基金會 。
shoots seem tiny ; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall .	射擊看起來很小 ; 為了抵達太陽 , 它們可以穿過磚牆 。
see the brick wall as all these problems we've inflicted on the planet , environmental and social . it's a message of hope .	把磚牆視為我們對地球造成的所有問題 , 環保和社會的影響 。 這是一種希望的訊息 。
hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things .	世界各地數十萬名年輕人可以突破並為所有生物創造一個更好的世界 。
the most important message of roots and shoots: every single one of us makes a difference , every single day .	根和芽的最重要的訊息是:我們每一個人每天都能做出改變 。
we have a choice . every one of us in this room , we have a choice as to what kind of difference we want to make .	我們有選擇 。 在座的每個人 , 我們都有選擇要做什麼改變 。
the very poor have no choice . it's up to us to change things so that the poor have choice as well .	貧窮的人沒有選擇 , 要改變事物 , 才能讓窮人有選擇 。
the roots and shoots groups all choose three projects .	根和芽團體都選了三個項目 。
it depends on how old they are , and which country , whether they're in a city or rural , as to what kinds of projects .	它取決於它們的年齡 , 以及哪個國家 , 不論他們在城市或鄉村 , 和什麼樣的計畫 。
but basically , we have programs now from preschool right through university , with more and more adults starting their own roots and shoots groups .	但基本上 , 我們有從幼兒園到大學的程式 , 有越來越多的成年人開始自己根部和芽團體 。
and every group chooses , between them , three different kinds of project to make this a better world , recognizing that all these different problems are interconnected and impinge on each other .	每個團體都選擇在兩者之間 , 三個不同的項目 , 讓這個世界變得更美好 , 認知到 , 所有這些不同的問題都互相連結 , 加強彼此之間 。
so one of their projects will be to help their own human community .	其中一項計畫是要協助他們自己的人類社群 。
and then , if they're able , they may raise money to help communities in other parts of the world .	如果他們能的話 , 他們可能會募集資金 , 來協助世界其他地區的社區 。
one of their projects will be to help animals not just wildlife , domestic animals as well .	其中一項計畫是要協助動物 , 不只是野生動物 , 還有家畜動物 。
and one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share .	其中一項計畫是要協助我們共享的環境 。
and woven throughout all of this is a message of learning to live in peace and harmony within ourselves , in our families , in our communities , between nations , between cultures , between religions and between us and the natural world .	整件事都包含了一種訊息 , 來學習生活在和平和和諧中 , 在我們的家庭、我們的社區、國家、文化、文化、宗教之間 , 和我們和自然界之間 。
we need the natural world . we cannot go on destroying it at the rate we are .	我們需要自然世界 。 我們不能以我們現在的速度來破壞它 。
we not do have more than this one planet .	我們沒有超過這個星球 。
just picking one or two of the projects right here in africa that the roots and shoots groups are doing , one or two projects only in tanzania , in uganda , kenya , south africa , congobrazzaville , sierra leone , cameroon and other groups . and as i say , it's in 97 countries around the world .	只要在非洲這裡挑一個或兩個項目 , 就是根和芽群體在做 , 只有在坦尚尼亞、烏干達、肯亞、南非、剛果利亞、獅子山共和國 , 還有其他團體 。 如我所說的 , 它在世界上97個國家 。
of course , they're planting trees . they're growing organic vegetables .	當然 , 他們在種樹 , 種植有機蔬菜 。
they're working in the refugee camps , with chickens and selling the eggs for a little amount of money , or just using them to feed their families , and feeling a sense of pride and empowerment , because they're no longer helpless and depending on others with their vegetables and their chickens .	他們在難民營工作 , 帶著雞來賣蛋 , 只用一些錢 , 只用它們來餵養他們的家人 , 感覺到驕傲和賦權 , 因為他們不再無助 , 依靠他人的蔬菜和雞 。
it's being used in uganda to give some psychological help to exchild soldiers .	它被用在烏干達 , 給予一些心理上的幫助 , 來讓士兵們去做 。
doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves .	做像這樣的項目 , 將它們帶出自己 。
once again , they're useful members of society .	再一次 , 他們是社會中有用的成員 。
we have this program in prisons as well .	我們也在監獄裡有這個計畫 。
so , there's no time for more roots and shoots now .	所以 , 現在沒有更多根和芽的時間了 。
but oh , they're also working on hiv/aids .	但 , 喔 , 他們也在研究愛滋病 。
that's a very important component of roots and shoots , with older kids talking to younger ones .	那是根和芽的重要部分 , 年紀較小的孩子和年輕的孩子談話 。
and unwanted pregnancies and things like that , which young people listen to better from other youth , rather than adults .	這種不尋常的懷孕和諸如此類的 , 年輕人從其他年輕人身上聽得更好 , 而非成年人 。
hope . that's the question i get asked as i'm going around the world: " jane , you've seen so many terrible things , you've seen your chimpanzees decrease in number from about one million , at the turn of the century , to no more than 150 , 000 now , and the same with so many other animals .	希望 。 這就是我在世界各地被問到的問題: 「 珍 , 你看過這麼多可怕的事情 , 你已經看到黑猩猩數以百萬計的數量 , 從一個世紀到現在 , 到現在沒有超過十五萬隻 , 和許多其他動物一樣 。
forests disappearing , deserts where once there was forest .	森林消失了 , 曾經有森林的沙漠 。
do you really have hope ? " well , yes .	你真的有希望嗎 ? 」 是的 。
you can't come to a conference like ted and not have hope , can you ?	你不能來參加像ted這樣的會議 , 沒有希望 , 你能嗎 ?
and of course , there's hope . one is this amazing human brain .	當然 , 還有希望 。 一個是令人驚嘆的人類大腦 。
and i mean , think of the technologies .	我的意思是 , 想想科技 。
and i've just been so thrilled , finally , to come to people talking about compost latrines .	最後 , 我很興奮 , 最後 , 要來談談合成的廁所 。
it's one of my hobbyhorses .	這是我的嗜好者之一 。
we just flush all this water down the lavatory , it's terrible .	我們剛剛把這些水沖到電梯下 , 很糟糕 。
and then talking about renewable energy desperately important .	接著 , 談到再生能源極為重要 。
do we care about the planet for our children ?	我們在乎我們的孩子嗎 ?
how many of us have children or grandchildren , nieces , nephews ?	有多少人有孩子或孫子、姪子、姪子 ?
do we care about their future ?	我們在乎他們的未來嗎 ?
and if we care about their future , we , as the elite around the world , we can do something about it . we can make choices as to how we live each day .	如果我們在乎他們的未來 , 我們 , 身為世界菁英的未來 , 我們能為它做點什麼 。 我們可以為我們每天的生活做些選擇 。
what we buy . what we wear .	我們買什麼 , 穿什麼 。
and choose to make these choices with the question , how will this affect the environment around me ?	選擇用問題做這些選擇 , 這會如何影響我身邊的環境 ?
how will it affect the life of my child when he or she grows up ?	當他或她長大後 , 會如何影響我的孩子的生活 ?
or my grandchild , or whatever it is .	或是我的孫子 , 不管是什麼 。
so the human brain , coupled with the human heart , and we join hands around the world .	人類的大腦 , 與人的心結合 , 我們加入了全世界的手 。
and that's what ted is helping so well with , and google who help us , and esri are helping us with mapping in gombe national park .	這就是ted的幫助 , 和谷歌幫助我們 , esri正在幫我們繪製gombe國家公園的地圖 。
all of these technologies we can use .	所有這些我們能使用的科技 。
now let's link them , and it's beginning to happen , isn't it ?	現在讓我們把它們連結起來 , 開始發生了 , 對吧 ?
you've heard about it this afternoon . it's beginning to happen .	下午你聽說過了 。 事情開始發生了 。
this change , this change . to see change that we must have if we care about the future .	這種改變 , 這種改變 。 如果我們在乎未來 , 我們必須要有改變 。
and the next reason for hope nature is amazingly resilient .	希望大自然的下一個理由是驚人的恢復力 。
you can take an area that's absolutely destroyed , with time and perhaps some help it can regenerate .	你可以拿一個完全摧毀的區域 , 帶著時間 , 或許有些幫助它再生 。
and an example is the tacare program .	舉個例子 , 就是醫療方案 。
i told you , where a seemingly dead tree stump if you stop hacking them for firewood , which you don't need to because you have wood lots , then in five years you can have a 30foot tree .	我跟你說 , 看似死了的樹木 , 如果你停止砍伐樹木 , 那你不需要因為你有很多木材 , 五年後 , 你就可以有30英尺高的樹 。
and animals , almost on the brink of extinction , can be given a second chance . that's my next book .	而動物幾乎在滅絕的邊緣 , 可以得到第二次機會 。 這是我的下一本書 。
it's inspiring . and it brings me to my last category of hope , and we've heard about this so much in the last two days: this indomitable human spirit . this determination of people , the resilience of the human spirit , so that people who you would think would be battered by poverty , or disease , or whatever , can pull themselves up out of it , sometimes with a helping hand , and take their part in society , and take their part in changing the world .	它很鼓舞人心 。 它帶我到最後一類的希望 , 我們在過去的兩天中 , 聽過這麼多關於這種不屈不撓的人類精神 。 這決定了人類精神的韌性 , 使你認為會受到貧窮或疾病的影響 , 或疾病的影響 , 可以把自己拉出去 , 有時有助手 , 帶到社會中 , 帶他們參與改變世界的一部分 。
and just to think of one or two people out of africa who are just really inspiring .	想想非洲有一兩個人 , 他們真的很鼓舞人心 。
we could make a very long list , but obviously nelson mandela , emerging from 17 years of hard physical labor , 23 years of imprisonment , with this amazing ability to forgive , so that he could lead his nation out the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath .	我們可以做個很長的清單 , 但很明顯地 , 曼德拉從17年的辛苦勞工興起 , 23年的監禁 , 承受了這個驚人的原諒能力 , 讓他能把他的國家帶出種族隔離的邪惡政權 , 沒有血浴 。
ken sarowiwa , in nigeria , who took on the giant oil companies , and although people around the world tried their best , was executed .	奈及利亞的肯薩洛瓦採用巨型石油公司 , 儘管全世界的人都竭盡所能 , 卻被處決 。
people like this are so inspirational .	像這樣的人是如此鼓舞人心 。
people like this are the role models we need for young africans .	像這樣的人是我們年輕非洲人所需要的榜樣 。
and we need some environmental role models as well , and i've been hearing some of them today .	我們也需要一些環境的榜樣 , 我今天也在聽過其中一些例子 。
so i'm really grateful for this opportunity to share this message again , with everyone at ted .	所以我很感激這個機會再次分享這個訊息給ted的每個人 。
and i hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things , especially the roots and shoots program .	我希望我們當中有些人能聚在一起談論這些事 , 特別是根與芽計畫 。
and just a last word on that the young woman who's running this entire conference center , i met her today .	最後一個詞是年輕女性參加這整個會議中心 , 我今天遇見她 。
she came up so excited , with her certificate . she was [in] roots and shoots .	她非常興奮 , 有了她的證書 。 她是根和芽 。
she was in the leadership in dar es salaam .	她在沙拉姆的領導階層 。
she said it's helped her to do what she's doing .	她說 , 幫助她做她在做的事 。
and it was very , very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people , when they are empowered , given the opportunity to take action , to make the world a better place , truly are our hope for tomorrow .	我很興奮能見到她 , 看到一個例子 , 說明年輕人是如何被賦權的 , 給予他們行動的機會 , 讓這個世界變得更美好 , 真正是我們明天的希望 。
artist dianna cohen shares some tough truths about plastic pollution in the ocean and in our lives and some thoughts on how to free ourselves from the plastic gyre .	藝術家dannacohen分享了一些關於海洋中塑膠污染的棘手真相 , 在我們的生活中 , 以及一些關於如何解放我們自己 , 避免塑膠垃圾 。
consumerism , global issues , green , mission blue , oceans , plastic	消費主義、全球議題、綠色、使命藍色、海洋、塑膠塑膠、塑膠、塑膠等 。
dianna cohen: tough truths about plastic pollution	黛安娜柯恩:很難說出塑膠污染的真相 。
i'm a visual artist , and i'm also one of the cofounders of the plastic pollution coalition .	我是視覺藝術家 , 我也是塑膠污染聯盟的共同創辦人之一 。
i've been working with plastic bags , which i cut up and sew back together as my primary material for my artwork for the last 20 years .	我和塑膠袋一起工作 , 在過去20年 , 我把塑膠袋剪下來 , 再縫合成我的作品的主要材料 。
i turn them into two and threedimensional pieces and sculptures and installations .	我把它們變成二、三維的零件、雕塑和裝置 。
upon working with the plastic , after about the first eight years , some of my work started to fissure and break down into smaller little bits of plastic .	和塑膠合作 , 大約八年後 , 我的一些作品開始裂縫 , 分解成更小的塑膠 。
and i thought , " great .	我心想: 「 太好了 。
it's ephemeral just like us . "	它和我們一樣短暫 。 」
upon educating myself a little further about plastics , i actually realized this was a bad thing .	我更進一步教育塑膠 , 事實上我意識到這是件壞事 。
it's a bad thing that plastic breaks down into smaller little bits , because it's always still plastic .	塑膠分解成小塊是壞事 , 因為它總是塑膠 。
and what we're finding is that a lot of it is in the marine environment .	我們發現 , 很多是在海洋環境中 。
i then , in the last few years , learned about the pacific garbage patch and the gyre .	過去幾年 , 我學到太平洋垃圾和健身房 。
and my initial reaction and i think this is a lot of people's first reaction to learning about it is , " oh my god !	我最初的反應和我認為這是很多人第一次了解這件事的反應: 「 天啊 !
we've got to go out there and clean this thing up . "	我們得走出去 , 把這東西清理乾淨 。 」
so i actually developed a proposal to go out with a cargo ship and two decommissioned fishing trawlers , a crane , a chipping machine and a coldmolding machine .	於是我開發了一個提案 , 帶著一艘貨船出去 , 兩艘退化的漁船 , 一艘船 , 一台拖車 , 一台拖車 , 一台冰冷的機器 。
and my intention was to go out to the gyre , raise awareness about this issue and begin to pick up the plastic , chip it into little bits and cold mold it into bricks that could potentially be used as building materials in underdeveloped communities .	我的意圖是 , 出去到健身房 , 提高對這個議題的認知 , 並開始將塑膠晶片放入小片和冷冷的模塊中 , 可以用來當建築在未開發的社區裡 。
i began talking with people who actually had been out to the gyre and were studying the plastic problem in the marine environment and upon doing so , i realized actually that cleaning it up would be a very small drop in the bucket relative to how much is being generated every day around the world , and that actually i needed to back up and look at the bigger picture .	我開始和那些真的去過健身房的人談話 , 研究海洋環境中的塑膠問題 , 並且在做這件事時 , 我意識到 , 清理乾淨會是一個非常小的滴落 , 和全世界每天產生多少東西 , 其實我需要回頭看更大的景象 。
and the bigger picture is: we need to find a way to turn off the faucet .	更大的圖片是:我們需要找到一個方法來關掉這個錯覺 。
we need to cut the spigot of singleuse and disposable plastics , which are entering the marine environment every day on a global scale .	我們需要切斷單一用途和無形塑膠的位置 , 每天都要進入海洋環境 , 在全球範圍內 。
so in looking at that , i also realized that i was really angry .	仔細看 , 我意識到我真的很生氣 。
i wasn't just concerned about plastic that you're trying to imagine out in the middle of the pacific ocean of which i have learned there are now 11 gyres , potentially , of plastic in five major oceans in the world .	我不只在乎塑膠 , 你還在試著想像在太平洋中央 , 我學到現在有11個塑膠在世界上五個大洋裡 。
it's not just that gyre of plastic that i'm concerned about it's the gyre of plastic in the supermarket .	不只是我關心的塑膠垃圾 , 而是超市的塑膠 。
i'd go to the supermarket and all of my food is packaged in plastic .	我會去超市 , 我所有的食物都是塑膠包裝的 。
all of my beverages are packaged in plastic , even at the health food market .	我所有的飲料都包裝在塑膠上 , 甚至在健康的食物市場 。
i'm also concerned about the plastic in the refrigerator , and i'm concerned about the plastic and the toxins that leach from plastic into us and into our bodies .	我也關心冰箱裡的塑膠 , 我對塑膠和毒素的關心 , 從塑膠到我們身體的塑膠和毒素 。
so i came together with a group of other people who were all looking at this issue , and we created the plastic pollution coalition .	所以我和一群人一起研究這個議題 , 我們創造了塑膠污染聯盟 。
we have many initiatives that we're working on , but some of them are very basic .	我們有許多我們正在努力的倡議 , 但其中有些是非常基本的 。
one is: if 80 to 90 percent of what we're finding in the ocean of the marine debris that we're finding in the ocean is plastic , then why don't we call it what it is .	第一:如果我們在海洋中發現的海洋碎片有80%到90%是塑膠 , 那麼我們為什麼不把它稱為它 。
recycling everybody kind of ends their books about being sustainable and greening with the idea of recycling .	回收每個人的書 , 終止了他們的永續和綠色 , 想著回收這個概念 。
you put something in a bin and you don't have to think about it again .	你把某樣東西放進一個罐子裡 , 你不需要再想一想 。
what is the reality of that ?	到底是怎麼回事 ?
in the united states , less than seven percent of our plastics are recycled .	在美國 , 少於7%的塑膠被回收 。
and if you really look into it , particularly when it comes to plastic bottles , most of it is only downcycled , or incinerated , or shipped to china .	如果你真的仔細觀察 , 特別是在塑膠瓶的時候 , 大部分的瓶子只會被倒退 , 或被刺激 , 或運送到中國 。
it is downcycled and turned into lesser things , while a glass bottle can be a glass bottle again or can be used again a plastic bottle can never be a plastic bottle again .	它被倒退化 , 轉變為更少的東西 , 而玻璃瓶可以再次使用玻璃瓶 , 或者再次使用塑膠瓶 , 再也不會是塑膠瓶 。
so this is a big issue for us .	這對我們來說是個大問題 。
another thing that we're looking at and asking people to think about is we've added a fourth r onto the front of the " reduce , reuse , recycle , " three r's , and that is refuse .	另一件我們正在研究並要求人們思考的事 , 就是我們在 「 減少、再利用、回收 」 的前面加上第四個r , 也就是拒絕了 。
whenever possible , refuse singleuse and disposable plastics .	不論何時 , 都拒絕單一用途和可丟棄的塑膠 。
alternatives exist ; some of them are very oldschool .	替代方案存在 , 有些是非常古老的學者 。
i myself am now collecting these cool pyrex containers and using those instead of glad and tupperware containers to store food in .	我現在在收集這些很酷的皮箱 , 用這些裝置 , 而不是很高興、很高興能容器來儲存食物 。
and i know that i am doing a service to myself and my family .	我知道我正在為自己和家人服務 。
it's very easy to pick up a stainlesssteel bottle or a glass bottle , if you're traveling and you've forgotten to bring your stainlesssteel bottle and fill that up with water or filtered water , versus purchasing plastic bottled water .	很容易拿起一瓶水 , 或一瓶玻璃瓶 , 如果你在旅行 , 你忘了帶著你的永續瓶子 , 填滿水或過濾水 , 和購買塑膠瓶的塑膠瓶 。
i guess what i want to say to everybody here and i know that you guys know a lot about this issue is that this is a huge problem in the oceans , but this is a problem that we've created as consumers and we can solve .	我想對在座的各位說些話 , 我知道你們對這個議題知道很多 , 就是這在海洋中是個大問題 , 但這是我們作為消費者所創造出來的問題 , 我們可以解決這個問題 。
we can solve this by raising awareness of the issue and teaching people to choose alternatives .	我們可以藉由提高注意力來解決這個問題 , 並教導人們選擇替代方案 。
so whenever possible , to choose alternatives to singleuse plastics .	所以 , 不論何時 , 要選擇單一的塑膠替代方案 。
we can cut the stem tide the stem of this into our oceans and in doing so , save our oceans , save our planet , save ourselves .	我們可以把幹細胞切割成我們的海洋 , 這麼做 , 拯救我們的海洋 , 拯救我們的地球 , 拯救我們自己 。
this demo from pattie maes' lab at mit , spearheaded by pranav mistry was the buzz of ted . it's a wearable device with a projector that paves the way for profound interaction with our environment . imagine " minority report " and then some .	這位來自麻省理工學院的帕蒂•瑪斯實驗室的展示 , 由帕拉夫•密斯特雷特所引導的 , 是ted的buzz 。 這是個可以穿戴的裝置 , 讓它與我們的環境互動 。 想像一下 「 少數性報告 」 和一些人 。
demo , design , interface design , technology	民主、設計、界面設計、科技、科技設計、設計、界面設計、科技 。
pattie maes and pranav mistry demo sixthsense	派蒂馬斯和帕拉夫•梅伊斯 , 示範第六道感 。
i've been intrigued by this question of whether we could evolve or develop a sixth sense a sense that would give us seamless access and easy access to metainformation or information that may exist somewhere that may be relevant to help us make the right decision about whatever it is that we're coming across .	我對這個問題很有興趣 , 探討我們是否能進化或發展出一種第六感感 , 能給予我們安全的取得、容易取得的資訊 , 或可能存在的資訊 , 來協助我們做出正確的決定 。
and some of you may argue , well , don't today's cell phones do that already ?	你們當中有些人可能會爭辯 , 嗯 , 今天的手機已經做到了嗎 ?
but i would say no .	但我會說不 。
when you meet someone here at ted and this is the top networking place , of course , of the year you don't shake somebody's hand and then say , " can you hold on for a moment while i take out my phone and google you ? "	當你在ted見面的時候 , 這當然是網絡最高的地方 , 你不搖別人的手 , 然後說: 「 你能不能暫時拿出手機和google搜尋你嗎 ? 」
or when you go to the supermarket and you're standing there in that huge aisle of different types of toilet papers , you don't take out your cell phone , and open a browser , and go to a website to try to decide which of these different toilet papers is the most ecologically responsible purchase to make .	或是當你去超市時 , 你站在那邊 , 上面有各種不同類型的衛生紙 , 你不會拿出手機 , 打開瀏覽器 , 去一個網站 , 試著決定這些不同的衛生紙中哪些是最環保的購買 。
so we don't really have easy access to all this relevant information that can just help us make optimal decisions about what to do next and what actions to take .	所以 , 我們沒有很容易取得所有相關的資訊 , 能夠協助我們做出最佳決定 , 來決定下一步該做什麼、採取什麼行動 。
and so my research group at the media lab has been developing a series of inventions to give us access to this information in a sort of easy way , without requiring that the user changes any of their behavior .	所以我在媒體實驗室的研究團隊開發了一系列的發明 , 以一種簡單的方式 , 不需要使用者改變他們的行為 。
and i'm here to unveil our latest effort , and most successful effort so far , which is still very much a work in process .	我來這裡是要揭開我們最新的努力 , 目前最成功的努力 , 這仍然是一個過程中的工作 。
i'm actually wearing the device right now and we've sort of cobbled it together with components that are off the shelf and that , by the way , only cost 350 dollars at this point in time .	我現在戴著這個裝置 , 我們把它和架子上的零件結合在一起 , 順道一提 , 目前只有350美元 。
i'm wearing a camera , just a simple webcam , a portable , batterypowered projection system with a little mirror .	我穿著攝影機 , 只是一個簡單的網路攝影機 , 一個可攜帶、電動投影系統 , 裡面有一面鏡子 。
these components communicate to my cell phone in my pocket which acts as the communication and computation device .	這些元件在我的口袋裡傳達我的手機 , 它是通訊和計算裝置 。
and in the video here we see my student pranav mistry , who's really the genius who's been implementing and designing this whole system .	在影片中 , 我們看到我的學生帕拉夫•米特里 , 他真的是實施和設計整個系統的天才 。
and we see how this system lets him walk up to any surface and start using his hands to interact with the information that is projected in front of him .	我們看到這個系統讓他走上任何表面 , 開始使用他的雙手 , 和他前面投射的資訊互動 。
the system tracks the four significant fingers .	系統追蹤了四個重要的手指 。
in this case , he's wearing simple marker caps that you may recognize .	在這個例子中 , 他戴著你可能認出的簡單標記帽子 。
but if you want a more stylish version you could also paint your nails in different colors .	但如果你想要更堅固的版本 , 你也可以用不同顏色來畫你的指甲 。
and the camera basically tracks these four fingers and recognizes any gestures that he's making so he can just go to , for example , a map of long beach , zoom in and out , etc .	基本上攝影機追蹤這四隻手指 , 並辨識出他所做的任何姿勢 , 例如 , 他可以直接去看一張長灘的地圖 , 放大 , 等等 。
the system also recognizes iconic gestures such as the " take a picture " gesture , and then takes a picture of whatever is in front of you .	系統也能辨識出 「 拍照 」 的標誌姿勢 , 然後拍下你面前的任何東西 。
and when he then walks back to the media lab , he can just go up to any wall and project all the pictures that he's taken , sort through them and organize them , and resize them , etc . , again using all natural gestures .	當他走回媒體實驗室時 , 他可以爬上任何牆壁 , 把他拍下來的照片 , 整理起來 , 重新組織它們 , 再次使用各種天然的手勢 。
so , some of you most likely were here two years ago and saw the demo by jeff han or some of you may think , " well , doesn't this look like the microsoft surface table ? "	兩年前 , 有些人可能在場 , 看到傑夫•漢的示範 , 或者有些人可能會想: 「 嗯 , 這看起來不像微軟的表面桌子嗎 ? 」
and yes , you also interact using natural gestures , both hands , etc .	是的 , 你也用天然手勢 , 雙手等等 。
but the difference here is that you can use any surface , you can walk to up to any surface , including your hand if nothing else is available and interact with this projected data .	但差別在於你可以用任何表面 , 你可以走到任何表面 , 包括你的手 , 如果沒有任何東西可以使用 , 和這個投影資料互動 。
the device is completely portable , and can be . . .	這個裝置是完全可攜帶的 , 可以是......
so one important difference is that it's totally mobile .	其中一個重要的差異是它完全是移動的 。
another even more important difference is that in mass production this would not cost more tomorrow than today's cell phones and would actually not sort of be a bigger packaging could look a lot more stylish than this version that i'm wearing around my neck .	另外一個更重要的差異是 , 在大規模生產時 , 比今天的手機還要多 , 實際上 , 不會比我在脖子上穿的這個更大的包裝 , 看起來比我穿著的這個版本還要多 。
but other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as tom cruise in " minority report , " the reason why we're really excited about this device is that it really can act as one of these sixthsense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you .	但 , 除了讓你們當中一些人過得像湯姆•克魯斯在《少數報告》中很酷的幻想 , 我們之所以對這個裝置感到興奮 , 是因為它真的可以作為第六感的裝置之一 , 讓你知道在你面前的任何東西 。
so we see pranav here going into the supermarket and he's shopping for some paper towels .	我們看到帕拉夫走進超市 , 他購買了一些紙巾 。
and , as he picks up a product the system can recognize the product that he's picking up , using either image recognition or marker technology , and give him the green light or an orange light .	當他拿起一個產品時 , 這個系統可以辨識出他拿出來的產品 , 用影像辨識或標記技術 , 給他綠燈或橘光 。
he can ask for additional information .	他可以要求更多的資訊 。
so this particular choice here is a particularly good choice , given his personal criteria .	所以這個選擇是特別好的選擇 , 因為他的個人標準 。
some of you may want the toilet paper with the most bleach in it rather than the most ecologicallyresponsible choice .	有些人可能想要馬桶紙 , 上面有最多漏洞 , 而不是最有生態責任的選擇 。
if he picks up a book in the bookstore , he can get an amazon rating it gets projected right on the cover of the book .	如果他在書店裡拿起一本書 , 他可以得到亞馬遜評分 , 會直接投入書的封面 。
this is juan's book , our previous speaker , which gets a great rating , by the way , at amazon .	這是胡安的書 , 我們之前的講者 , 順便說一下 , 在亞馬遜 , 會得到很棒的評分 。
and so , pranav turns the page of the book and can then see additional information about the book reader comments , maybe sort of information by his favorite critic , etc .	所以 , 帕拉夫轉換了這本書的頁面 , 就可以看到關於讀者評論的額外資訊 , 或許他最喜歡的評論家 , 等等 。
if he turns to a particular page he finds an annotation by maybe an expert of a friend of ours that gives him a little bit of additional information about whatever is on that particular page .	如果他轉到某個特定的頁面 , 他可能會找到我們的朋友專家 , 給他一些額外的資訊 , 關於那個頁面上的任何東西 。
reading the newspaper it never has to be outdated .	閱讀報紙從來不需要過期 。
you can get video annotations of the event that you're reading about you can get the latest sports scores etc .	你可以收到關於你所讀到最新的運動分數 。
this is a more controversial one .	這是一個更具爭議性的 。
as you interact with someone at ted , maybe you can see a word cloud of the tags , the words that are associated with that person in their blog and personal web pages .	當你和ted的某人互動時 , 也許你可以看到標籤的一個字雲 , 和那個人的部落格和個人網頁相關的詞彙 。
in this case , the student is interested in cameras , etc .	在這個例子中 , 學生對攝影機很感興趣 , 等等 。
on your way to the airport , if you pick up your boarding pass , it can tell you that your flight is delayed , that the gate has changed , etc .	在你去機場的路上 , 如果你拿起你的登機車 , 它可以告訴你 , 你的班機延遲了 , 大門已經改變了 , 等等 。
and , if you need to know what the current time is it's as simple as drawing a watch on your arm .	如果你需要知道現在的時間是什麼 , 就如同在手臂上畫手錶一樣簡單 。
so that's where we're at so far in developing this sixth sense that would give us seamless access to all this relevant information about the things that we may come across .	所以 , 這就是我們目前正在發展的第六感感 , 讓我們能無縫地取得所有相關資訊 , 關於我們可能碰到的事物 。
my student pranav , who's really , like i said , the genius behind this .	我的學生帕拉夫 , 像我說的 , 這背後的天才 。
he does deserve a lot of applause because i don't think he's slept much in the last three months , actually .	他的確值得掌聲 , 因為我不認為他在過去三個月裡睡得太多 。
and his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either .	他的女朋友可能也不高興 。
but it's not perfect yet , it's very much a work in progress .	但這還不是完美的 , 它是進步的一份工作 。
and who knows , maybe in another 10 years we'll be here with the ultimate sixth sense brain implant .	誰知道 , 也許在接下來的十年內 , 我們會帶著終極的第六感腦植入 。
phyllis rodriguez and aicha elwafi have a powerful friendship born of unthinkable loss . rodriguez' son was killed in the world trade center attacks on september 11 , 2001 ; elwafi's son zacarias moussaoui was convicted of a role in those attacks and is serving a life sentence . in hoping to find peace , these two moms have come to understand and respect one another .	菲莉絲•羅德里格和艾瑞克•伊瓦菲很有力的友誼 , 源自於世界上貿易中心的兒子在2001年9月11日被殺害 ; 埃爾瓦夫的兒子薩洛伊在這些攻擊中被定罪 , 希望能找到和平的句子 。 這兩個媽媽已經開始了解並尊重彼此 。
culture , global issues , politics	文化、全球議題、政治 , 和文化 , 和文化、全球議題、政治 。
9/11 healing: the mothers who found forgiveness , friendship	9/11的治癒:那些發現寬恕的母親 , 友誼 , 友誼 。
phyllis rodriguez: we are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship .	菲莉絲•羅德里格茲:我們今天來到這裡 , 是因為我們大多數人認為一個不尋常的友誼 。
and yet , it feels natural to us now .	然而 , 現在我們感覺很自然 。
i first learned that my son had been in the world trade center on the morning of september 11th , 2001 .	我第一次了解到 , 我兒子在2001年9月11日的早晨在世界貿易中心 。
we didn't know if he had perished yet until 36 hours later .	我們不知道他是否在36小時後死去 。
at the time , we knew that it was political .	當時 , 我們知道那是政治的 。
we were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son my husband , orlando , and i and our family .	我們害怕我們的國家將以我們兒子的名字為名 , 我的丈夫奧蘭多 , 我和我們的家人 。
and when i saw it and yet , through the shock , the terrible shock , and the terrible explosion in our lives , literally , we were not vengeful .	當我看到它 , 然而 , 透過震驚 , 可怕的震驚 , 和我們生活中糟糕的爆炸 , 真的是 , 我們還沒有復仇 。
and a couple of weeks later when zacarias moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism , and the u . s . government called for a death penalty for him , if convicted , my husband and i spoke out in opposition to that , publicly .	幾個星期後 , zacariasmosaoui被指示要犯下恐怖主義 , 美國政府要求對他做死刑 , 如果被定罪 , 我的丈夫和我公開對談 。
through that and through human rights groups , we were brought together with several other victims' families .	透過人權團體 , 我們和其他幾個受害者的家人聚在一起 。
when i saw aicha in the media , coming over when her son was indicted , and i thought , " what a brave woman .	當我在媒體上看到aicha , 她兒子被指控時 , 我心想: 「 什麼是勇敢的女人 。
someday i want to meet that woman when i'm stronger . "	有一天 , 我會想在我更強的時候認識那個女人 。 」
i was still in deep grief ; i knew i didn't have the strength .	我仍然在深深的悲慟中 , 我知道我沒有力量 。
i knew i would find her someday , or we would find each other .	我知道有一天我會找到她 , 或找到彼此 。
because , when people heard that my son was a victim , i got immediate sympathy .	因為 , 當人們聽到我兒子是受害者時 , 我馬上就同情了 。
but when people learned what her son was accused of , she didn't get that sympathy .	但當人們知道她兒子被指控時 , 她沒有得到同情 。
but her suffering is equal to mine .	但她的痛苦與我同等 。
so we met in november 2002 , and aicha will now tell you how that came about .	我們在2002年11月見面 , aicha現在會告訴你這是怎麼回事 。
aicha elwafi: good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen .	aichaelwafi:午安 , 各位先生女士
i am the mother of zacarias moussaoui .	我是zacariasmosaoui的母親 。
and i asked the organization of human rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims .	我請人權組織把我和受害者的父母聯繫起來 。
so they introduced me to five families .	所以他們介紹我到五個家庭 。
and i saw phyllis , and i watched her .	我看到phyllis , 看著她 。
she was the only mother in the group .	她是團隊中唯一的母親 。
the others were brothers , sisters .	其他人則是兄弟姐妹 。
and i saw in her eyes that she was a mother , just like me .	我在她的眼中看到她是母親 , 就像我一樣 。
i suffered a lot as a mother .	我身為母親所苦 。
i was married when i was 14 .	我14歲就結婚了 。
i lost a child when i was 15 , a second child when i was 16 .	我十五歲時失去了一個孩子 , 一個我十六歲的第二個孩子 。
so the story with zacarias was too much really .	zacarias的故事實在太多了 。
and i still suffer , because my son is like he's buried alive .	我仍然受苦 , 因為我的兒子就像被埋葬一樣 。
i know she really cried for her son .	我知道她真的為她的兒子哭了 。
but she knows where he is .	但她知道他在哪裡 。
my son , i don't know where he is .	我兒子不知道他在哪裡 。
i don't know if he's alive . i don't know if he's tortured .	我不知道他是否活著 。 我不知道他是否被虐待 。
i don't know what happened to him .	我不知道他發生了什麼事 。
so that's why i decided to tell my story , so that my suffering is something positive for other women .	這就是為什麼我決定要說我的故事 , 所以我的痛苦對其他女性來說是正面的 。
for all the women , all the mothers that give life , you can give back , you can change .	對所有的婦女來說 , 所有給予生命的媽媽 , 你可以回饋 , 你可以改變 。
it's up to us women , because we are women , because we love our children .	因為我們是女性 , 因為我們是女性 , 因為我們愛我們的孩子 。
we must be handinhand and do something together .	我們一定是手工的 , 一起做點什麼 。
it's not against women , it's for us , for us women , for our children .	不是反對女性 , 而是為了我們女性 , 為我們的孩子 。
i talk against violence , against terrorism .	我對抗暴力 , 反對恐怖主義 。
i go to schools to talk to young , muslim girls so they don't accept to be married against their will very young .	我去學校和年輕的穆斯林女孩談話 , 讓他們不接受和她們結婚的意志很年輕 。
so if i can save one of the young girls , and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as i did , well this is something good .	所以 , 如果我能拯救其中一個年輕女孩 , 避免她們和我一樣結婚、受苦 , 這是件好事 。
this is why i'm here in front of you .	這就是為什麼我要站在你們面前 。
pr: i would like to say that i have learned so much from aicha , starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members which was a very private meeting with security , because it was november 2002 , and , frankly , we were afraid of the superpatriotism of that time in the country those of us family members .	pr:我想說 , 我從阿加汗學到很多 , 從那天開始 , 我們和其他家庭成員見面是非常私人的會議 , 因為那是2002年11月 , 坦白說 , 我們害怕當時國家的超級病態 , 那些家庭成員 。
but we were all so nervous .	但我們都很緊張 。
" why does she want to meet us ? "	「 為什麼她想要見我們 ? 」
and then she was nervous .	接著 , 她很緊張 。
" why did we want to meet her ? "	「 為什麼我們要見她 ? 」
what did we want from each other ?	我們彼此想要什麼 ?
before we knew each others' names , or anything , we had embraced and wept .	在我們認識彼此的名字之前 , 我們已經擁抱和哭泣 。
then we sat in a circle with support , with help , from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation .	接著 , 我們坐在一個圓圈裡 , 帶著協助 , 從人們體驗到這種協調 。
and aicha started , and she said , " i don't know if my son is guilty or innocent , but i want to tell you how sorry i am for what happened to your families .	aicha開始 , 她說: 「 我不知道我的兒子是有罪或無辜 , 但我想告訴各位 , 我對你的家庭發生了多麼的抱歉 。
i know what it is to suffer , and i feel that if there is a crime , a person should be tried fairly and punished . "	我知道痛苦是什麼 , 我覺得如果有犯罪 , 一個人應該被懲罰 。 」
but she reached out to us in that way , and it was , i'd like to say , it was an icebreaker .	但她以這種方式向我們伸出援手 , 我想要說 , 那是個冰箱 。
and what happened then is we all told our stories , and we all connected as human beings .	接下來發生的是 , 我們都說自己的故事 , 我們都以人類的身分連結在一起 。
by the end of the afternoon it was about three hours after lunch we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever .	下午結束後 , 午餐後大約三小時 , 我們感覺好像永遠認識對方一樣 。
now what i learned from her , is a woman , not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then , and what was being done to her son , but the life she's had .	我從她身上學到的是 , 一個女人 , 不只是在這些情況下 , 誰會這麼慷慨 , 以及當時的狀況 , 以及她兒子做了什麼 , 還有她的生活 。
i never had met someone with such a hard life , from such a totally different culture and environment from my own .	我從來沒有遇過這麼辛苦的人生 , 來自我自己的文化和環境 。
and i feel that we have a special connection , which i value very much .	我覺得我們有一個特殊的連結 , 我非常重視它 。
and i think it's all about being afraid of the other , but making that step and then realizing , " hey , this wasn't so hard .	我覺得這全是害怕對方的 , 但要踏出那一步 , 然後意識到: 「 嘿 , 這並不難 。
who else can i meet that i don't know , or that i'm so different from ? "	還有誰能見到我不知道的 , 或我和他是如此不同 ? 」
so , aicha , do you have a couple of words for conclusion ?	所以 , aicha , 你有幾個字來做結論嗎 ?
because our time is up .	因為我們的時間到了 。
aw: i wanted to say that we have to try to know other people , the other .	aw:我想說 , 我們必須試著認識別人 , 另一個人 。
you have to be generous , and your hearts must be generous , your mind must be generous .	你必須慷慨 , 你的心臟一定是慷慨的 , 你的心智一定是慷慨的 。
you must be tolerant .	你必須要容忍 。
you have to fight against violence .	你必須對抗暴力 。
and i hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other .	我希望有一天 , 我們都會一起生活在和平和尊重彼此 。
this is what i wanted to say .	這是我想要說的 。
too much of the world lacks access to clean drinking water . engineer michael pritchard did something about it inventing the portable lifesaver filter , which can make the most revolting water drinkable in seconds . an amazing demo from tedglobal 2009 .	世界上太多人無法取得乾淨飲用水 。 工程師麥可•普里奇 , 針對它發明可攜式的生活過濾器 , 可以在幾秒鐘內完成最精彩的飲用水 。 一個來自tedglobal的演示 。
business , demo , design , global issues , invention , technology , water	商業、展示、設計、全球議題、發明、科技、水資源、水資源、
michael pritchard's water filter turns filthy water drinkable	michaelprichard的水過濾 , 變成了骯髒的飲用水 。
i'd like to talk about a couple of things today .	今天我想談談幾件事 。
the first thing is water .	第一是水 。
now i see you've all been enjoying the water that's been provided for you here at the conference , over the past couple of days .	現在我看到你們都很享受這場研討會所提供的水 , 過去幾天 。
and i'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source .	我相信你們會覺得這是安全來源的 。
but what if it wasn't ?	但如果不是呢 ?
what if it was from a source like this ?	如果是像這樣的來源呢 ?
then statistics would actually say that half of you would now be suffering with diarrhea .	接著 , 統計數字會說 , 你們當中有一半的人會遭到腹瀉 。
i talked a lot in the past about statistics , and the provision of safe drinking water for all .	在過去 , 我談了很多關於統計 , 以及所有人的安全飲用水 。
but they just don't seem to get through .	但它們似乎沒有穿過 。
and i think i've worked out why .	我想我已經知道為什麼 。
it's because , using current thinking , the scale of the problem just seems too huge to contemplate solving .	因為 , 利用目前的思維 , 問題的規模似乎太大 , 無法思考解決問題 。
so we just switch off: us , governments and aid agencies .	所以我們就關掉了:我們、政府和援助機構 。
well , today , i'd like to show you that through thinking differently , the problem has been solved .	今天 , 我想用不同的角度來展示 , 這個問題已經解決了 。
by the way , since i've been speaking , another 13 , 000 people around the world are suffering now with diarrhea .	順帶一提 , 自從我說話之後 , 全世界還有一萬三千人正在受腹瀉所苦 。
and four children have just died .	四個孩子剛過世了 。
i invented lifesaver bottle because i got angry .	我發明了救生瓶 , 因為我生氣了 。
i , like most of you , was sitting down , the day after christmas in 2004 , when i was watching the devastating news of the asian tsunami as it rolled in , playing out on tv .	我和大部分人一樣 , 在2004年聖誕節後的那一天 , 我看著亞洲海嘯爆炸的消息 , 在電視上播放 。
the days and weeks that followed , people fleeing to the hills , being forced to drink contaminated water or face death .	接下來的日子 , 人們逃到山丘上 , 被迫喝污染的水或死亡 。
that really stuck with me .	這真的困住了我 。
then , a few months later , hurricane katrina slammed into the side of america .	接著 , 幾個月後 , 卡崔娜颶風溜到美國的一邊 。
" okay , " i thought , " here's a first world country , let's see what they can do . "	我心想: 「 好吧 , 這裡是第一個國家 , 讓我們看看他們能做什麼 。 」
do you know it took five days to get water to the superdome ?	你知道這花了五天才能把水送到超級迷因上嗎 ?
people were shooting each other on the streets for tv sets and water .	人們在街上為電視設施和水開槍 。
that's when i decided i had to do something .	那是我決定要做點什麼的時候 。
now i spent a lot of time in my garage , over the next weeks and months , and also in my kitchen much to the dismay of my wife .	現在我花了很多時間在我的車庫裡 , 在接下來的幾週、幾個月 , 我也在廚房裡 , 把我太太的苦惱都花了很多時間 。
however , after a few failed prototypes , i finally came up with this , the lifesaver bottle .	然而 , 在幾次失敗的原型之後 , 我終於想出了這個 , 救生瓶 。
okay , now for the science bit .	好 , 現在來談科學 。
before lifesaver , the best hand filters were only capable of filtering down to about 200 nanometers .	在生命saver之前 , 最好的過濾器只能過濾到大約200奈米 。
the smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers .	最小的細菌大約是200奈米 。
so a 200nanometer bacteria is going to get through a 200nanometer hole .	一個200奈米的細菌將會經歷200奈米的洞 。
the smallest virus , on the other hand , is about 25 nanometers .	另一方面 , 最小的病毒大約是25奈米 。
so that's definitely going to get through those 200 nanometer holes .	這肯定會穿過那200奈米的洞 。
lifesaver pores are 15 nanometers .	救生器是15奈米長 。
so nothing is getting through .	所以 , 沒有什麼事情發生 。
okay , i'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration .	好 , 我要給你們一些示範 。
would you like to see that ?	你會想看到嗎 ?
i spent all the time setting this up , so i guess i should .	我花了很多時間設定 , 所以我想我應該要 。
we're in the fine city of oxford .	我們正處在牛津美好的城市 。
so someone's done that up .	有人這樣做 。
fine city of oxford , so what i've done is i've gone and got some water from the river cherwell , and the river thames , that flow through here . and this is the water .	牛津的好城市 , 我所做的是 , 我從河流cherwell取得一些水 , 河流 , 流過這裡 。 這就是水 。
but i got to thinking , you know , if we were in the middle of a flood zone in bangladesh , the water wouldn't look like this .	但我必須想 , 如果我們在孟加拉的洪水區中間 , 水就不會像這樣 。
so i've gone and got some stuff to add into it .	所以 , 我已經有了一些東西來加入它 。
and this is from my pond .	這是我的池塘 。
have a smell of that , mister cameraman .	聞一下 , 攝影師 。
we're just going to pour that in there .	我們只會把它倒進去 。
michael pritchard: okay . we've got some runoff from a sewage plant farm .	michaelpritchard:好的 , 我們有一些從污水農場中跑出來的 。
so i'm just going to put that in there .	所以我就把這個放進去 。
put that in there . there we go .	把它放進去 , 開始 。
and some other bits and pieces , chuck that in there .	還有其他的部分和碎片 , 把它抓進去 。
and i've got a gift here from a friend of mine's rabbit .	我這裡有一位朋友的兔子的禮物 。
so we're just going to put that in there as well .	所以 , 我們也要把它放進去 。
the lifesaver bottle works really simply .	救生瓶真的很簡單 。
you just scoop the water up .	你只要把水拿起來 。
today i'm going to use a jug just to show you all . let's get a bit of that poo in there .	今天我要用一個袋子給你們看 。 讓我們看看裡面的那個小便 。
that's not dirty enough . let's just stir that up a little bit .	那還不夠髒 。 讓我們稍微攪拌一下 。
okay , so i'm going to take this really filthy water , and put it in here . do you want a drink yet ?	好吧 , 我要用這個非常骯髒的水 , 把它放進這裡 。 你想喝杯嗎 ?
okay . there we go .	好 , 開始了 。
give it a few pumps . okay ?	給它一些幫浦 。 好嗎 ?
that's all that's necessary .	這些都是必要的 。
now as soon as i pop the teat , sterile drinking water is going to come out .	一旦我採用茶 , 無菌的飲用水就會出現 。
i've got to be quick . okay , ready ?	我得快點 。 好 , 準備好了嗎 ?
there we go . mind the electrics .	開始了 。 請注意電源 。
that is safe , sterile drinking water .	那是安全、無菌的飲用水 。
there you go chris .	克里斯 。
what's it taste of ?	它的味道是什麼 ?
let's see chris's program throughout the rest of the show . okay ?	我們來看看克里斯的節目在整個節目中 。 好嗎 ?
okay . lifesaver bottle is used by thousands of people around the world .	好吧 , 世界各地數以千計的人使用生命瓶 。
it'll last for 6 , 000 liters .	它會維持六千公升 。
and when it's expired , using failsafe technology , the system will shut off , protecting the user .	當它被啟發時 , 使用失敗的技術 , 系統會關閉 , 保護使用者 。
pop the cartridge out . pop a new one in .	把地毯拿出來 , 放進去 。
it's good for another 6 , 000 liters .	這對六千公升來說是好的 。
so let's look at the applications .	我們來看看應用程式 。
traditionally , in a crisis , what do we do ?	傳統上 , 在危機中 , 我們該怎麼做 ?
then , after a few weeks , we set up camps .	幾週後 , 我們成立了營地 。
and people are forced to come into the camps to get their safe drinking water .	人們被迫進入營地 , 以取得安全的飲用水 。
what happens when 20 , 000 people congregate in a camp ?	當兩萬人聚集在營地時會發生什麼事 ?
diseases spread . more resources are required .	疾病散播 。 需要更多的資源 。
the problem just becomes selfperpetuating .	問題就在於自我延續 。
but by thinking differently , and shipping these , people can stay put .	但藉由不同的思考方式 , 運送這些人可以留下 。
they can make their own sterile drinking water , and start to get on with rebuilding their homes and their lives .	他們可以製造自己的無菌飲用水 , 開始重建家園和生活 。
now , it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work .	這樣做並不需要天然的災難 。
using the old thinking , of national infrastructure and pipe work , is too expensive .	用舊的想法 , 國家基礎建設和管道工作太貴了 。
when you run the numbers on a calculator , you run out of noughts .	當你在計算機上運算數字時 , 你就會跑出音符 。
so here is the " thinking different " bit .	這是 「 不同的思考 」 的一部分 。
instead of shipping water , and using manmade processes to do it , let's use mother nature . she's got a fantastic system .	不用運送水 , 用人造過程來做 , 咱們用大自然 。 她有一個很棒的系統 。
she picks the water up from there , desalinates it , for free , transports it over there , and dumps it onto the mountains , rivers , and streams .	她從那裡撿起水 , 免費運送到那裡 , 把它丟到山上 , 河流和溪流 。
and where do people live ? near water .	人們住在哪裡 ? 靠近水 。
all we've go to do is make it sterile . how do we do that ?	我們要做的就是讓它變得無效 。 我們該怎麼做 ?
well , we could use the lifesaver bottle .	嗯 , 我們可以用救生瓶 。
or we could use one of these .	或者 , 我們可以用其中一個 。
the same technology , in a jerry can .	同樣的技術 , 在jerry可以 。
this will process 25 , 000 liters of water ; that's good enough for a family of four , for three years .	這個過程會處理2萬5千公升的水 ; 這足夠給一個四、三年的家庭 。
and how much does it cost ?	要花多少錢 ?
about half a cent a day to run .	每天大約有半分錢可以跑 。
so , by thinking differently , and processing water at the point of use , mothers and children no longer have to walk four hours a day to collect their water .	所以 , 用不同的方式思考 , 處理水 , 母親和孩子不再需要每天四小時去收集他們的水 。
they can get it from a source nearby .	他們可以從附近的來源取得 。
so with just eight billion dollars , we can hit the millennium goal's target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water .	只要八十億美元 , 我們就能達到千禧目標的目標 , 避免飲用水的人口數目 。
to put that into context , the u . k . government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid .	要把這句話說成 , 英國政府每年花費大約120億英鎊在國外援助上 。
but why stop there ?	但為什麼要停在那裡 ?
with 20 billion dollars , everyone can have access to safe drinking water .	有了20億美金 , 每個人都可以取得安全飲用水 。
so the threeandahalf billion people that suffer every year as a result , and the two million kids that die every year , will live .	因此 , 每年有三十五億人受苦 , 每年有兩百萬名孩童會活下來 。
paddy ashdown claims that we are living in a moment in history where power is changing in ways it never has before . in a spellbinding talk at tedxbrussels he outlines the three major global shifts that he sees coming .	帕迪•阿許諾聲稱我們生活在歷史上的某個時刻 , 權力正在改變 。 在tedxbrsel的拼字演說中 , 他推出了他所看到的三大全球轉變 。
foreign policy , global issues , politics , world cultures	外交政策、全球議題、政治、世界文化文化、外交政策、全球議題、議題、政治、世界議題、文化、文化、文化 。
paddy ashdown: the global power shift	paddyashown:全球權力轉移 。
there's a poem written by a very famous english poet at the end of the 19th century .	在十九世紀末 , 有一首詩寫了一首著名的英文詩 。
it was said to echo in churchill's brain in the 1930s .	在1930年代 , 它被告知在教堂的大腦 。
and the poem goes: " on the idle hill of summer , lazy with the flow of streams , hark i hear a distant drummer , drumming like a sound in dreams , far and near and low and louder on the roads of earth go by , dear to friend and food to powder , soldiers marching , soon to die . "	這首詩說: 「 在夏天的小山丘上 , 懶惰著河流 , 我聽到一個遙遠的鼓聲 , 像個在夢裡的聲音 , 距離很遠、很低、很大聲 , 在地球的路上 , 親愛的朋友、食物到粉碎 , 士兵們很快就死了 。 」
those who are interested in poetry , the poem is " a shropshire lad " written by a . e . housman .	那些對詩有興趣的人 , 這首詩是《shropshirelad》 , 由a.housman寫的 。
but what housman understood , and you hear it in the symphonies of nielsen too , was that the long , hot , silvan summers of stability of the 19th century were coming to a close , and that we were about to move into one of those terrifying periods of history when power changes .	但 , 休士曼明白的 , 你也在尼爾森的交響曲中聽到 , 就是十九世紀的長、熱、銀的穩定夏天即將要接近 , 我們即將進入歷史上最可怕的時期 , 那時權力改變了 。
and these are always periods , ladies and gentlemen , accompanied by turbulence , and all too often by blood .	這些都是時期 , 各位先生女士 , 伴隨著亂流 , 通常都是血液 。
and my message for you is that i believe we are condemned , if you like , to live at just one of those moments in history when the gimbals upon which the established order of power is beginning to change and the new look of the world , the new powers that exist in the world , are beginning to take form .	我告訴你們的是 , 我相信我們被迫生活在歷史上的那一刻當權力所建立的秩序開始改變世界的新看法 , 現有的新勢力開始形成
and these are and we see it very clearly today nearly always highly turbulent times , highly difficult times , and all too often very bloody times .	而我們今天看到的這些是非常清楚的 , 幾乎都是高度衝動、高度困難的時光 , 很多時候都太血腥了 。
by the way , it happens about once every century .	順帶一提 , 它每世紀都會發生一次 。
you might argue that the last time it happened and that's what housman felt coming and what churchill felt too was that when power passed from the old nations , the old powers of europe , across the atlantic to the new emerging power of the united states of america the beginning of the american century .	你可能會說 , 上次發生了 , 那就是休士曼的感受 , 以及教堂的感受 , 當權力從舊的國家傳遞 , 歐洲的舊勢力 , 跨越大西洋 , 到美國一開始的新興勢力 。
and of course , into the vacuum where the tooold european powers used to be were played the two bloody catastrophes of the last century the one in the first part and the one in the second part: the two great world wars .	當然 , 在真空中 , 過去歐洲的權力在上個世紀的兩場血腥災難 , 第一部分和第二部分:世界大戰 。
mao zedong used to refer to them as the european civil wars , and it's probably a more accurate way of describing them .	毛澤東曾經稱之為歐洲內戰 , 這可能是更精確的描述方式 。
well , ladies and gentlemen , we live at one of those times .	各位先生女士 , 我們生活在其中之一 。
but for us , i want to talk about three factors today .	但對我們來說 , 我今天想談三個因素 。
and the first of these , the first two of these , is about a shift in power .	首先 , 前兩個是權力的轉變 。
and the second is about some new dimension which i want to refer to , which has never quite happened in the way it's happening now .	第二個是關於一些我想要指的新維度 , 它從來沒有發生過 。
but let's talk about the shifts of power that are occurring to the world .	但 , 讓我們來談談 「 權力 」 的轉變 。
and what is happening today is , in one sense , frightening because it's never happened before .	今天發生的是 , 某種程度上 , 恐怖的原因是它從來沒有發生過 。
we have seen lateral shifts of power the power of greece passed to rome and the power shifts that occurred during the european civilizations but we are seeing something slightly different .	我們已經看過後續的權力轉換 , 希臘通過羅馬的力量 , 以及在歐洲文明中發生的權力轉變 , 但我們看到了稍微不同的東西 。
for power is not just moving laterally from nation to nation .	權力不僅是從國家轉移到國家 。
it's also moving vertically .	它也垂直移動 。
what's happening today is that the power that was encased , held to accountability , held to the rule of law , within the institution of the nation state has now migrated in very large measure onto the global stage .	今天正在發生的事是 , 被監禁的權力 , 被責任歸咎於法律的規則 , 在國家的制度中 , 現在已經在全球的舞台上遷移了 。
the globalization of power we talk about the globalization of markets , but actually it's the globalization of real power .	全球化的權力 , 我們談論全球化的市場 , 但實際上是全球化的權力 。
and where , at the nation state level that power is held to accountability subject to the rule of law , on the international stage it is not .	在這個國家的權力層面上 , 權力在法律的規則上 , 在國際舞台上 , 權力並非如此 。
the international stage and the global stage where power now resides: the power of the internet , the power of the satellite broadcasters , the power of the money changers this vast moneygoround that circulates now 32 times the amount of money necessary for the trade it's supposed to be there to finance the money changers , if you like , the financial speculators that have brought us all to our knees quite recently , the power of the multinational corporations now developing budgets often bigger than mediumsized countries .	國際舞台和全球舞台現在仍然存在:網路的力量 , 衛星廣播的力量 , 金錢改變了這巨大的貨幣 , 現在流通了32倍 , 交易必要的金錢數目 , 應該是為了金錢改善 , 如果你喜歡 , 金融業者最近才把我們全部帶到我們的膝關節 , 這些金融企業的力量 , 比起中型國家的預算還要大 。
these live in a global space which is largely unregulated , not subject to the rule of law , and in which people may act free of constraint .	這些生活在一個大部份沒有規範的全球空間中 , 不受法律規範 , 而在這些空間中 , 人們可能免於限制 。
now that suits the powerful up to a moment .	這套裝置有強大的力量 。
it's always suitable for those who have the most power to operate in spaces without constraint , but the lesson of history is that , sooner or later , unregulated space space not subject to the rule of law becomes populated , not just by the things you wanted international trade , the internet , etc . but also by the things you don't want international criminality , international terrorism .	對那些在沒有限制的空間中運作最適合的人來說 , 但歷史的教訓是 , 不久後 , 不受規範的空間 , 不受法律規範的限制 , 不僅僅是你想要國際貿易、網路等等的東西 。 還有那些你不想要國際犯罪、國際恐怖主義的東西 。
the revelation of 9/11 is that even if you are the most powerful nation on earth , nevertheless , those who inhabit that space can attack you even in your most iconic of cities one bright september morning .	911的揭示是 , 即使你是地球上最強大的國家 , 儘管如此 , 那些居住的空間可以攻擊你 , 即使是在一個明亮的九月的早晨 , 一個明亮的城市 。
it's said that something like 60 percent of the four million dollars that was taken to fund 9/11 actually passed through the institutions of the twin towers which 9/11 destroyed .	據說 , 大約百分之六十萬美元被拿來資助9/11的資金實際上通過了雙胞胎塔的機構 , 911摧毀了 。
you see , our enemies also use this space the space of mass travel , the internet , satellite broadcasters to be able to get around their poison , which is about destroying our systems and our ways .	我們的敵人也使用這個空間 , 大眾旅行、網路、衛星廣播 , 能夠在它們的毒藥中四處走動 , 重點在摧毀我們的系統和我們的方式 。
sooner or later , sooner or later , the rule of history is that where power goes governance must follow .	很快 , 不久之後 , 歷史的規則是權力的治理必須遵循 。
and if it is therefore the case , as i believe it is , that one of the phenomenon of our time is the globalization of power , then it follows that one of the challenges of our time is to bring governance to the global space .	如果我相信 , 如同我所說的 , 我們這個時代的一個現象就是權力全球化 , 那麼我們這個時代的挑戰之一就是把治理帶到全球 。
and i believe that the decades ahead of us now will be to a greater or lesser extent turbulent the more or less we are able to achieve that aim: to bring governance to the global space .	我相信 , 未來的幾十年將會變成更大或更少的亂流 , 我們能達成目標:將治理帶給全球空間 。
now notice , i'm not talking about government .	請注意 , 我不是在說政府 。
i'm not talking about setting up some global democratic institution .	我不是在說要設立全球民主制度 。
my own view , by the way , ladies and gentlemen , is that this is unlikely to be done by spawning more u . n . institutions .	順道一提 , 我自己的觀點是 , 女士們先生們 , 不太可能通過聯合國的機構來完成這件事 。
if we didn't have the u . n . , we'd have to invent it .	如果我們沒有聯合國 , 我們就得發明它 。
the world needs an international forum .	世界需要國際論壇 。
it needs a means by which you can legitimize international action .	它需要一種方法 , 讓國際行動合法化 。
but when it comes to governance of the global space , my guess is this won't happen through the creation of more u . n . institutions .	但 , 當談到全球空間的治理時 , 我猜這不會發生在聯合國的創建中 。
it will actually happen by the powerful coming together and making treatybased systems , treatybased agreements , to govern that global space .	它會發生在強大的團結並建立以治療為基礎的系統 , 以治療為基礎的協議 , 來管理這個全球空間 。
and if you look , you can see them happening , already beginning to emerge .	如果你看 , 你可以看到他們正在發生 , 已經開始出現了 。
the world trade organization: treatybased organization , entirely treatybased , and yet , powerful enough to hold even the most powerful , the united states , to account if necessary .	世界貿易組織:以條約為基礎的組織 , 完全以條約為基礎 , 然而 , 強大到能夠容納最強大的美國 , 如果必要的話 。
kyoto: the beginnings of struggling to create a treatybased organization .	kyoto:努力創造一個以條約為基礎的組織 。
the g20: we know now that we have to put together an institution which is capable of bringing governance to that financial space for financial speculation .	g20:我們現在知道 , 我們必須建立一個機構 , 能夠將治理帶到金融空間 , 來推測金融空間 。
and that's what the g20 is , a treatybased institution .	這就是g20所謂的基礎機構 。
now there's a problem there , and we'll come back to it in a minute , which is that if you bring the most powerful together to make the rules in treatybased institutions , to fill that governance space , then what happens to the weak who are left out ?	現在有一個問題 , 我們等一下會再回來談 , 那就是 , 如果你把最強大的力量集合起來 , 建立以條約為基礎的機構 , 來填補那些治理空間 , 那麼剩下的弱點呢 ?
and that's a big problem , and we'll return to it in just a second .	這是個大問題 , 我們只要一秒鐘就回來 。
so there's my first message , that if you are to pass through these turbulent times more or less turbulently , then our success in doing that will in large measure depend on our capacity to bring sensible governance to the global space .	所以 , 我的第一個訊息是 , 如果你要通過這些亂流 , 或多或少的亂流 , 那麼 , 我們的成功將會取決於我們的能力 , 將可感應的治理帶給全球空間 。
and watch that beginning to happen .	看看這個開始發生的 。
my second point is , and i know i don't have to talk to an audience like this about such a thing , but power is not just shifting vertically , it's also shifting horizontally .	我的第二點是 , 我知道我不需要和像這樣的觀眾談這樣的話 , 但權力不只是垂直轉移 , 它也在橫向轉移 。
you might argue that the story , the history of civilizations , has been civilizations gathered around seas with the first ones around the mediterranean , the more recent ones in the ascendents of western power around the atlantic .	你可能會說 , 文明的歷史 , 已經在海裡聚集了文明 , 和地中海的第一批人 , 最近在大西洋的西方權力 。
well it seems to me that we're now seeing a fundamental shift of power , broadly speaking , away from nations gathered around the atlantic [seaboard] to the nations gathered around the pacific rim .	對我來說 , 我們現在看到的是權力的基本轉變 , 廣泛的說話 , 遠離大西洋的國家 , 聚集在太平洋的河岸邊 。
now that begins with economic power , but that's the way it always begins .	經濟力量始於此 , 但這一直是它的起源 。
you already begin to see the development of foreign policies , the augmentation of military budgets occurring in the other growing powers in the world .	你已經開始看到外交政策的發展 , 軍事預算的擴增發生在世界上其他發展勢力的發展中 。
i think actually this is not so much a shift from the west to the east ; something different is happening .	我認為這並不是從西方轉變到東方 , 而是不同的事正在發生 。
my guess is , for what it's worth , is that the united states will remain the most powerful nation on earth for the next 10 years , 15 , but the context in which she holds her power has now radically altered ; it has radically changed .	我的猜測是 , 對於值得什麼 , 美國將保留地球上最強大的國家 , 未來十年、15年 , 但她握有權力的情境現在已經徹底改變了 ; 它徹底地改變了 。
we are coming out of 50 years , most unusual years , of history in which we have had a totally monopolar world , in which every compass needle for or against has to be referenced by its position to washington a world bestrode by a single colossus .	我們從五十年來 , 最不尋常的歷史 , 我們有完全單一的世界 , 每一根針或對它的位置都需要被華盛頓世界最佳世界 。
but that's not a usual case in history .	但這不是歷史上常見的案例 。
in fact , what's now emerging is the much more normal case of history .	事實上 , 現在出現的是更正常的歷史案例 。
you're beginning to see the emergence of a multipolar world .	你已經開始看到多重世界的出現了 。
up until now , the united states has been the dominant feature of our world .	目前為止 , 美國一直是世界主要的特徵 。
they will remain the most powerful nation , but they will be the most powerful nation in an increasingly multipolar world .	他們會維持最強大的國家 , 但在越來越多世界中 , 他們將會是最強大的國家 。
and you begin to see the alternative centers of power building up in china , of course , though my own guess is that china's ascent to greatness is not smooth .	當然 , 你開始看到在中國建立權力中心的替代方案 , 當然 , 我的猜測是 , 中國對偉大的重要性並不平滑 。
it's going to be quite grumpy as china begins to democratize her society after liberalizing her economy .	中國將開始在自由化經濟後讓她的社會民主化 。
but that's a subject of a different discussion .	但這是個討論的主題 。
you see india , you see brazil .	你看印度 , 你看到巴西 。
you see increasingly that the world now looks actually , for us europeans , much more like europe in the 19th century .	你可以看到 , 越來越多世界現在看起來 , 對我們歐洲人來說 , 在十九世紀 , 比較像歐洲 。
europe in the 19th century: a great british foreign secretary , lord canning , used to describe it as the " european concert of powers . "	歐洲在十九世紀 , 一個偉大的英國外國秘書長 , 羅德•坎德 , 曾經把它描述為 「 歐洲的權力協會 」 。
there was a balance , a fivesided balance .	有一個平衡 , 一個五方的平衡 。
britain always played to the balance .	英國總是在平衡上演 。
if paris got together with berlin , britain got together with vienna and rome to provide a counterbalance .	如果巴黎和柏林團結起來 , 英國和維也納和羅馬合作 , 提供平衡 。
now notice , in a period which is dominated by a monopolar world , you have fixed alliances nato , the warsaw pact .	請注意 , 在一個由單一世界主導的時代 , 你有固定的聯盟nato , 華薩維特 。
a fixed polarity of power means fixed alliances .	固定的兩極性意味著聯盟 。
but a multiple polarity of power means shifting and changing alliances .	但 , 權力的兩極性意味著改變和改變盟友 。
and that's the world we're coming into , in which we will increasingly see that our alliances are not fixed .	我們即將進入這個世界 , 我們將漸漸看到我們的聯盟並沒有固定 。
canning , the great british foreign secretary once said , " britain has a common interest , but no common allies . "	坎寧 , 英國外國秘書長曾說: 「 英國有一個共同的利益 , 但沒有共通盟友 。 」
and we will see increasingly that even we in the west will reach out , have to reach out , beyond the cozy circle of the atlantic powers to make alliances with others if we want to get things done in the world .	我們會越來越明顯地看到 , 即使我們在西方也會伸出援手 , 必須伸出援手 , 超越大西洋力量範圍 , 來和他人聯盟 , 如果我們想要在世界上做些事情 。
note , that when we went into libya , it was not good enough for the west to do it alone ; we had to bring others in .	注意 , 當我們進入利比亞時 , 西方人不夠好 , 我們必須把其他人帶進去 。
we had to bring , in this case , the arab league in .	我們必須把阿拉伯聯盟帶進來 。
my guess is iraq and afghanistan are the last times when the west has tried to do it themselves , and we haven't succeeded .	我的猜測是伊拉克和阿富汗是西方試圖自己做這件事的最後一次 , 我們沒有成功 。
my guess is that we're reaching the beginning of the end of 400 years i say 400 years because it's the end of the ottoman empire of the hegemony of western power , western institutions and western values .	我的猜測是 , 我們已經達到了400年的開始 , 我說400年了 , 因為這是西方權力的統治中心的終點 , 西方制度和西方價值觀 。
you know , up until now , if the west got its act together , it could propose and dispose in every corner of the world .	你知道 , 一直到現在 , 如果西方一起行動 , 它可以在世界各個角落提出和分散 。
but that's no longer true .	但這不再是事實了 。
take the last financial crisis after the second world war .	以第二次世界大戰後的最後一次金融危機為例 。
the west got together the bretton woods institution , world bank , international monetary fund the problem solved .	西方集合了布雷頓森林機構 , 世界銀行 , 國際貨幣基金會解決了問題 。
now we have to call in others .	現在我們必須打電話給其他人 。
now we have to create the g20 .	現在我們要創造g20 。
now we have to reach beyond the cozy circle of our western friends .	現在 , 我們必須超越西方朋友的昏迷圈 。
let me make a prediction for you , which is probably even more startling .	讓我為你們做個預測 , 這可能更令人驚訝 。
i suspect we are now reaching the end of 400 years when western power was enough .	我猜我們現在已經達到400年了 , 當時西方的權力已經夠了 。
people say to me , " the chinese , of course , they'll never get themselves involved in peacemaking , multilateral peacemaking around the world . "	人們對我說: 「 中國 , 當然 , 他們永遠不會參與世界上的和平 , 多邊的和平 。 」
oh yes ? why not ?	噢 ? 為什麼不 ?
how many chinese troops are serving under the blue beret , serving under the blue flag , serving under the u . n . command in the world today ?	有多少中國軍隊在藍色的貝雷特下服務 , 在藍旗下服務 , 在聯合國的指令下服務 ?
how many americans ? 11 .	有多少美國人 ? 十一歲 。
what is the largest naval contingent tackling the issue of somali pirates ?	什麼是索馬利海盜最大的海軍呢 ?
the chinese naval contingent .	中國的海軍同意 。
of course they are , they are a mercantilist nation .	當然他們是商業主義的國家 。
they want to keep the sea lanes open .	他們想要讓海平線開放 。
increasingly , we are going to have to do business with people with whom we do not share values , but with whom , for the moment , we share common interests .	漸漸地 , 我們得要和那些我們不分享價值的人做生意 , 同時 , 我們共享共同利益 。
it's a whole new different way of looking at the world that is now emerging .	這是一種全新的角度來看世界 , 現在正在興起 。
and here's the third factor , which is totally different .	第三個因素完全不同 。
today in our modern world , because of the internet , because of the kinds of things people have been talking about here , everything is connected to everything .	現今 , 在我們的現代世界 , 因為網路 , 人們一直在談論的事物 , 一切都與所有事物連結在一起 。
we are now interdependent .	我們現在是互相依賴的 。
we are now interlocked , as nations , as individuals , in a way which has never been the case before , never been the case before .	身為一個個體 , 我們現在是互相連結的 , 從來沒有發生過這種情況 , 從來沒有發生過 。
the interrelationship of nations , well it's always existed .	國際間的關係 , 總是存在著 。
diplomacy is about managing the interrelationship of nations .	外交是要管理國家之間的關係 。
but now we are intimately locked together .	但現在我們被關起來了 。
you get swine flu in mexico , it's a problem for charles de gaulle airport 24 hours later .	在墨西哥 , 查爾斯德高爾機場24小時後你會得到流感 。
lehman brothers goes down , the whole lot collapses .	雷曼兄弟下降了 , 全部都倒了 。
there are fires in the steppes of russia , food riots in africa .	俄羅斯有火災 , 非洲的糧食暴動 。
we are all now deeply , deeply , deeply interconnected .	我們現在都非常、非常、非常緊密 。
and what that means is the idea of a nation state acting alone , not connected with others , not working with others , is no longer a viable proposition .	這意味著 , 一個國家單獨行動的概念 , 而不是與他人連結 , 不是與他人合作 , 不再是可行的提案 。
because the actions of a nation state are neither confined to itself , nor is it sufficient for the nation state itself to control its own territory , because the effects outside the nation state are now beginning to affect what happens inside them .	因為一個國家的行動 , 不論是自身的 , 也不足以控制自己的國家 , 因為外國國家的影響已經開始影響他們內在的狀況 。
i was a young soldier in the last of the small empire wars of britain .	我是英國最後一個小帝國戰爭的年輕士兵 。
at that time , the defense of my country was about one thing and one thing only: how strong was our army , how strong was our air force , how strong was our navy and how strong were our allies .	那時 , 我國家的防禦是一回事 , 只有一件事:我們的軍隊有多強壯 , 我們的空軍有多強 , 我們的海軍有多強壯 , 以及我們的盟友有多強 。
that was when the enemy was outside the walls .	那時候敵人就在牆外 。
now the enemy is inside the walls .	敵人就在牆上 。
now if i want to talk about the defense of my country , i have to speak to the minister of health because pandemic disease is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of agriculture because food security is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of industry because the fragility of our hitech infrastructure is now a point of attack for our enemies as we see from cyber warfare i have to speak to the minister of home affairs because who has entered my country , who lives in that terraced house in that inner city has a direct effect on what happens in my country as we in london saw in the 7/7 bombings .	如果我想要談我的國家國防部 , 我得要和健康部長談 , 因為流行病對我的安全有威脅 , 我得要和農業部長談談 , 因為食物安全對我的國家是威脅 , 我得要和工業部談談 , 因為我們希臘基礎設施的脆弱 , 是我們的敵人 , 是我們從網路戰爭看到的攻擊 , 我得要和國內部談 , 因為在國內的國內的國會受到威脅 。
it's no longer the case that the security of a country is simply a matter for its soldiers and its ministry of defense .	不再是國家的安全對軍人和國防的重要性 。
it's its capacity to lock together its institutions .	它的能力是將它的機構鎖在一起 。
and this tells you something very important .	這告訴我們一件非常重要的事 。
it tells you that , in fact , our governments , vertically constructed , constructed on the economic model of the industrial revolution vertical hierarchy , specialization of tasks , command structures have got the wrong structures completely .	它告訴你 , 事實上 , 我們的政府 , 垂直建構 , 建立在工業革命的經濟模式上 , 包括垂直層級、專業任務、指令結構 , 完全有錯誤的結構 。
you in business know that the paradigm structure of our time , ladies and gentlemen , is the network .	各位在商業界知道我們這個時代的典範結構 , 各位先生女士 , 就是網路 。
it's your capacity to network that matters , both within your governments and externally .	這是你對網路很重要的能力 , 無論是在你的政府或外部 。
so here is ashdown's third law .	這裡是shown的第三法律 。
by the way , don't ask me about ashdown's first law and second law because i haven't invented those yet ; it always sounds better if there's a third law , doesn't it ?	順道一提 , 不要問我關於阿什沃恩的第一法律和第二定律 , 因為我還沒發明這些法律 ; 如果有第三條定律的話 , 聽起來比較好 , 對吧 ?
ashdown's third law is that in the modern age , where everything is connected to everything , the most important thing about what you can do is what you can do with others .	shown的第三定律是 , 在現代 , 每件事都和每件事有關 , 最重要的是你能做的 , 就是你能對別人做些什麼 。
the most important bit about your structure whether you're a government , whether you're an army regiment , whether you're a business is your docking points , your interconnectors , your capacity to network with others .	最重要的一點是 , 不論你是政府 , 不論你是軍隊註冊 , 不論你是企業 , 你的交叉點 , 你的交叉點 , 你和他人建立的能力 。
you understand that in industry ; governments don't .	在工業界 , 政府不了解 。
but now one final thing .	但 , 最後一件事 。
if it is the case , ladies and gentlemen and it is that we are now locked together in a way that has never been quite the same before , then it's also the case that we share a destiny with each other .	如果是這樣的情況 , 各位先生女士們 , 我們現在已經以以前從未相同的方式聯繫在一起 , 那也是我們彼此之間的命運 。
suddenly and for the very first time , collective defense , the thing that has dominated us as the concept of securing our nations , is no longer enough .	突然間 , 第一次 , 集體防禦 , 主宰我們國家的概念 , 不再是足夠的 。
it used to be the case that if my tribe was more powerful than their tribe , i was safe ; if my country was more powerful than their country , i was safe ; my alliance , like nato , was more powerful than their alliance , i was safe .	以前 , 如果我的部落比他們的部落更強大 , 我很安全 ; 如果我的國家比他們的強大 , 我更安全 ; 我的聯盟 , 像是納粹 , 比他們的盟友更強大 , 我就安全了 。
it is no longer the case .	它不再是案例 。
the advent of the interconnectedness and of the weapons of mass destruction means that , increasingly , i share a destiny with my enemy .	相互關聯性和大規模毀滅的武器意味著 , 越來越多 , 我和敵人有了命運 。
when i was a diplomat negotiating the disarmament treaties with the soviet union in geneva in the 1970s , we succeeded because we understood we shared a destiny with them .	當我還是外交官時 , 我和1970年代日內瓦的蘇聯和蘇聯的蘇聯談判 , 我們成功了 , 因為我們知道我們和他們共享一個命運 。
collective security is not enough .	集體安全還不夠 。
peace has come to northern ireland because both sides realized that the zerosum game couldn't work .	和平已經來到北愛爾蘭 , 因為兩者都意識到零和遊戲無法運作 。
they shared a destiny with their enemies .	他們和敵人共享命運 。
one of the great barriers to peace in the middle east is that both sides , both israel and , i think , the palestinians , do not understand that they share a collective destiny .	在中東和平的一個大障礙 , 就是雙方 , 以色列 , 我想 , 巴勒斯坦人 , 不明白他們有共同的命運 。
and so suddenly , ladies and gentlemen , what has been the proposition of visionaries and poets down the ages becomes something we have to take seriously as a matter of public policy .	所以 , 各位先生女士們 , 先生女士們 , 在這個時代 , 視力和詩人的提議變成了我們必須認真看待公共政策的問題 。
i started with a poem , i'll end with one .	我從一首詩開始 , 用一首詩結束 。
the great poem of john donne's .	約翰•唐納的偉大詩 。
" send not for whom the bell tolls . "	「 派別給誰鈴聲 。 」
the poem is called " no man is an island . "	這首詩叫做 「 沒有人是孤島 」 。
and it goes: " every man's death affected me , for i am involved in mankind , send not to ask for whom the bell tolls , it tolls for thee . "	上面寫著: 「 每個人的死亡都會影響我 , 為了我參與人類 , 不去問誰是貝殼 , 會幫我取帳 。 」
for john donne , a recommendation of morality .	對約翰•唐恩 , 道德建議 。
for us , i think , part of the equation for our survival .	對我們來說 , 我認為 , 是我們生存的公式之一 。
to find the path to long life and health , dan buettner and team study the world's " blue zones , " communities whose elders live with vim and vigor to recordsetting age . at tedxtc , he shares the 9 common diet and lifestyle habits that keep them spry past age 100 .	為了尋找長壽、健康、丹布特納和團隊的路徑 , 研究世界上的 「 藍色區域 」 , 他們的長者和維格爾一起生活在tedxc , 他分享了9種常見的飲食和生活習慣 , 這些習慣會讓他們過去一百歲 。
biology , culture , exploration , food , health , life , science	生物、文化、探索、食物、健康、生命、科學、科學、科學、科學、科學、知識 。
dan buettner: how to live to be 100+	danbuettner:如何活到100+100 。
something called the danish twin study established that only about 10 percent of how long the average person lives , within certain biological limits , is dictated by our genes .	丹麥雙胞胎研究發現 , 一般人的壽命只有百分之十 , 在某些生物限制中 , 只有我們的基因 。
the other 90 percent is dictated by our lifestyle .	另外九成是由我們的生活方式決定的 。
so the premise of blue zones: if we can find the optimal lifestyle of longevity we can come up with a de facto formula for longevity .	所以藍色區域的前提是:如果我們能找到長壽的最佳生活方式 , 我們就能提出一個事實的公式來長壽 。
but if you ask the average american what the optimal formula of longevity is , they probably couldn't tell you .	但如果你問一般美國人 , 長壽的最佳公式是什麼 , 他們可能無法告訴你 。
they've probably heard of the south beach diet , or the atkins diet .	他們可能聽過南海灘飲食 , 或皮膚飲食 。
you have the usda food pyramid .	你有美國食品金字塔 。
there is what oprah tells us .	歐普拉告訴我們 。
there is what doctor oz tells us .	奧茲博士告訴我們什麼 。
the fact of the matter is there is a lot of confusion around what really helps us live longer better .	事實是 , 對於真正幫助我們活得更好 , 有很多困惑 。
should you be running marathons or doing yoga ?	你是不是要跑馬拉松還是瑜伽 ?
should you eat organic meats or should you be eating tofu ?	你該吃有機肉還是吃豆腐 ?
when it comes to supplements , should you be taking them ?	談到補充品 , 你該把它們帶走嗎 ?
how about these hormones or resveratrol ?	那麼這些荷爾蒙還是反轉劇情呢 ?
and does purpose play into it ?	是否有目的呢 ?
spirituality ? and how about how we socialize ?	靈性 ? 我們要如何社交呢 ?
well , our approach to finding longevity was to team up with national geographic , and the national institute on aging , to find the four demographically confirmed areas that are geographically defined .	我們找到長壽的方法是和國家地理學院合作 , 國家老化研究所合作 , 找出四個人口確認地理位置 。
and then bring a team of experts in there to methodically go through exactly what these people do , to distill down the crosscultural distillation .	接著 , 帶一組專家來到那裡 , 以合法的方式穿透這些人的做法 , 來移除跨文化的分裂 。
and at the end of this i'm going to tell you what that distillation is .	最後我要告訴各位 , 那個區分是什麼 。
but first i'd like to debunk some common myths when it comes to longevity .	但首先 , 我想破壞一些常見的迷思 , 談到長壽時 。
and the first myth is if you try really hard you can live to be 100 .	第一個迷思是 , 如果你真的很努力 , 你可以活到100歲 。
the problem is , only about one out of 5 , 000 people in america live to be 100 .	問題是 , 美國5 , 000人當中只有1人活到100歲 。
your chances are very low .	你的機會非常低 。
even though it's the fastest growing demographic in america , it's hard to reach 100 .	即使它是美國成長最快的人口 , 很難達到100歲 。
the problem is that we're not programmed for longevity .	問題是 , 我們沒有長壽計畫 。
we are programmed for something called procreative success .	我們被編寫為 「 促進成功 」 。
i love that word .	我喜歡這個詞 。
it reminds me of my college days .	它提醒了我大學的日子 。
biologists term procreative success to mean the age where you have children and then another generation , the age when your children have children .	生物學家稱它為 「 優秀的成功 」 , 代表你有孩子的年齡 , 接著是另一個世代 , 當你的孩子有孩子時的年齡 。
after that the effect of evolution completely dissipates .	在演化的效果完全消失了 。
if you're a mammal , if you're a rat or an elephant , or a human , in between , it's the same story .	如果你是哺乳類動物 , 如果你是老鼠或大象 , 或人類 , 在兩者之間 , 則是同一個故事 。
so to make it to age 100 , you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle , you also have to have won the genetic lottery .	所以 , 要讓它變老100歲 , 你不只需要有好的生活方式 , 你還得贏得基因彩票 。
the second myth is , there are treatments that can help slow , reverse , or even stop aging .	第二個迷思是 , 有治療可以幫助緩慢、逆轉 , 甚至阻止老化 。
when you think of it , there is 99 things that can age us .	想想看 , 有99件事能讓我們變老 。
deprive your brain of oxygen for just a few minutes , those brain cells die , they never come back .	只要幾分鐘 , 那些腦細胞就會死亡 , 它們永遠不會回來 。
play tennis too hard , on your knees , ruin your cartilage , the cartilage never comes back .	彈網球太硬 , 在你的膝蓋上 , 毀了你的軟骨 , 軟骨永遠不會回來 。
our arteries can clog . our brains can gunk up with plaque , and we can get alzheimer's .	我們的動脈可以堵塞 。 我們的大腦可以用普拉克來推動 , 我們可以得到阿茲海默症 。
there is just too many things to go wrong .	有太多事情要出錯 。
our bodies have 35 trillion cells , trillion with a " t . " we're talking national debt numbers here .	我們的身體有35兆個細胞 , 上面有t 。 我們正在說國家債務的數字 。
those cells turn themselves over once every eight years .	這些細胞每八年就會自轉一次 。
and every time they turn themselves over there is some damage . and that damage builds up .	每當他們把自己轉到那裡時 , 就會造成傷害 , 那會造成損害 。
and it builds up exponentially .	它是指數型的 。
it's a little bit like the days when we all had beatles albums or eagles albums and we'd make a copy of that on a cassette tape , and let our friends copy that cassette tape , and pretty soon , with successive generations that tape sounds like garbage .	有點像當我們有披頭四或老鷹專輯時 , 我們會在錄音帶上做複製 , 讓朋友複製錄音帶 , 很快地 , 帶有成功的世代 , 錄音帶聽起來像是垃圾 。
well , the same things happen to our cells .	同樣的事也發生在我們的細胞身上 。
that's why a 65yearold person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12yearold person .	這就是為什麼一個65歲的人老化速度比12歲的人快125倍 。
so , if there is nothing you can do to slow your aging or stop your aging , what am i doing here ?	所以 , 如果沒有任何事可以減緩老化或阻止老化 , 我在這裡做什麼 ?
well , the fact of the matter is the best science tells us that the capacity of the human body , my body , your body , is about 90 years , a little bit more for women .	事實上 , 最棒的科學告訴我們人類身體的能力 , 我的身體 , 你的身體大約是90年 , 對於女性來說 , 多一點點 。
but life expectancy in this country is only 78 .	但這個國家的平均壽命只有78 。
so somewhere along the line , we're leaving about 12 good years on the table .	在這條線的某處 , 我們在桌子上留下了12年的美好處 。
these are years that we could get .	我們能做到這些年 。
and research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease , heart disease , cancer and diabetes .	研究顯示 , 牠們會多年免於慢性疾病、心臟疾病、癌症和糖尿病 。
we think the best way to get these missing years is to look at the cultures around the world that are actually experiencing them , areas where people are living to age 100 at rates up to 10 times greater than we are , areas where the life expectancy is an extra dozen years , the rate of middle age mortality is a fraction of what it is in this country .	我們認為 , 最好的方法就是去看世界上的文化 , 那些實際上正在經歷的文化 , 人們活到一百歲的地區 , 比我們多十倍 , 平均壽命是十多年 , 中年死亡率是少數的一部分 。
we found our first blue zone about 125 miles off the coast of italy , on the island of sardinia .	我們在義大利海岸發現我們的第一個藍色區域 , 距離義大利海岸大約125英里 。
and not the entire island , the island is about 1 . 4 million people , but only up in the highlands , an area called the nuoro province .	不是整個島嶼 , 島嶼大約有140萬人 , 但只有在高地 , 一個叫做努羅省的區域 。
and here we have this area where men live the longest , about 10 times more centenarians than we have here in america .	在這裡 , 我們有這個區域 , 男人壽命最長 , 比美國多出十倍 。
and this is a place where people not only reach age 100 , they do so with extraordinary vigor .	這個地方 , 人們不僅達到一百歲 , 還帶著非凡的惡魔 。
places where 102 year olds still ride their bike to work , chop wood , and can beat a guy 60 years younger than them .	那裡有102歲的老人仍然騎腳踏車去上班 , 可比他們年輕60歲 。
their history actually goes back to about the time of christ .	他們的歷史回溯到基督的時代 。
it's actually a bronze age culture that's been isolated .	它其實是一個被孤立的青銅文化 。
because the land is so infertile , they largely are shepherds , which occasions regular , lowintensity physical activity .	因為土地是如此的不穩定 , 大多是牧羊人 , 偶爾會規律、低密度的身體活動 。
their diet is mostly plantbased , accentuated with foods that they can carry into the fields .	他們的飲食大部分是以植物為基礎 , 以食物為主 , 以它們能帶入田野 。
they came up with an unleavened whole wheat bread called carta musica made out of durum wheat , a type of cheese made from grassfed animals so the cheese is high in omega3 fatty acids instead of omega6 fatty acids from cornfed animals , and a type of wine that has three times the level of polyphenols than any known wine in the world .	他們想出了一道無盡的麥麵包 , 叫做卡塔音樂 , 由杜魯米麥製成 , 一種乳酪是由草餵養的動物所製成 , 所以乳酪在omega-3脂肪酸中 , 而不是omega-6脂肪酸 , 而是來自玉米的動物 , 一種葡萄酒的類型 , 比世界上任何已知的葡萄酒含量高三倍 。
but the real secret i think lies more in the way that they organize their society .	但我認為真正的秘密是他們組織社會的方式 。
and one of the most salient elements of the sardinian society is how they treat older people .	薩丁尼亞社會中最重要的元素之一就是他們如何治療老年人 。
you ever notice here in america , social equity seems to peak at about age 24 ?	你有沒有注意到在美國 , 社會平等似乎在24歲時達到高峰 ?
just look at the advertisements .	看看廣告 。
here in sardinia , the older you get the more equity you have , the more wisdom you're celebrated for .	在斯丁尼亞 , 你得到越多平等 , 你所慶祝的智慧越多 。
you go into the bars in sardinia , instead of seeing the sports illustrated swimsuit calendar , you see the centenarian of the month calendar .	你走進薩丁尼亞州的酒吧 , 而不是看到運動畫出游泳日曆 , 你會看到一個月曆的中年人 。
this , as it turns out , is not only good for your aging parents to keep them close to the family it imparts about four to six years of extra life expectancy research shows it's also good for the children of those families , who have lower rates of mortality and lower rates of disease .	事實證明 , 這不只對老年的父母保持親近家庭的好處 , 預期壽命短短短四至六年的研究顯示 , 對那些家庭的孩子來說 , 死亡率和疾病的比率較低 。
that's called the grandmother effect .	這叫做祖母效應 。
we found our second blue zone on the other side of the planet , about 800 miles south of tokyo , on the archipelago of okinawa .	我們在地球的另一邊找到了第二塊藍色區域 , 大約是東京的800英里南部 , 俄亥俄州的阿基比拉哥 。
okinawa is actually 161 small islands .	okinawa其實是161個小島 。
and in the northern part of the main island , this is ground zero for world longevity .	在主要島的北部 , 這是世界永續發展的地點 。
this is a place where the oldest living female population is found .	這個地方是最古老的女性族群 。
it's a place where people have the longest disabilityfree life expectancy in the world .	在這個地方 , 人們有世界上最長的殘疾壽命 。
they have what we want .	他們有我們想要的 。
they live a long time , and tend to die in their sleep , very quickly , and often , i can tell you , after sex .	牠們活得很久 , 通常在牠們的睡眠中很快 , 通常 , 我可以告訴你 , 在性交之後 , 我會告訴你 。
they live about seven good years longer than the average american .	他們比一般美國人活得更久七年 。
five times as many centenarians as we have in america .	美國有五倍以上的百歲人 。
one fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer , big killers here in america .	五分之一的殖民地癌症和乳癌 , 在美國 , 大型殺手 。
and one sixth the rate of cardiovascular disease .	第六種心血管疾病的速率 。
and the fact that this culture has yielded these numbers suggests strongly they have something to teach us .	而這個文化已經產生了這些數字 , 顯然他們有可以教導我們的東西 。
what do they do ?	他們會怎麼做 ?
once again , a plantbased diet , full of vegetables with lots of color in them .	再一次 , 以植物為基礎的飲食 , 裡面有許多顏色的蔬菜 。
and they eat about eight times as much tofu as americans do .	他們吃的食物 , 比美國人多8倍 。
more significant than what they eat is how they eat it .	比牠們吃的更重要 , 就是牠們如何吃它 。
they have all kinds of little strategies to keep from overeating , which , as you know , is a big problem here in america .	他們有各式各樣的小策略 , 來避免過度濫用 , 如你所知 , 在美國這裡是個大問題 。
a few of the strategies we observed: they eat off of smaller plates , so they tend to eat fewer calories at every sitting .	我們觀察到的一些策略是:它們從小盤子中吃掉 , 所以它們通常會在每個坐下比較少吃卡路里 。
instead of serving family style , where you can sort of mindlessly eat as you're talking , they serve at the counter , put the food away , and then bring it to the table .	與其提供家庭風格 , 不如你在說話時 , 可以無心地吃飯 , 他們在櫃台上服務 , 把食物送出去 , 然後把它帶到桌子上 。
they also have a 3 , 000yearold adage , which i think is the greatest sort of diet suggestion ever invented .	他們還有3000歲的廣告 , 我認為這是史上最偉大的飲食建議 。
it was invented by confucius .	它是由混淆所發明的 。
and that diet is known as the hara , hatchi , bu diet .	這種飲食被稱為 「 哈拉 」 、 「 哈拉契 」 。
it's simply a little saying these people say before their meal to remind them to stop eating when their stomach is [80] percent full .	簡單來說 , 這些人在吃飯之前就說過要提醒他們 , 不要再吃八成 。
it takes about a half hour for that full feeling to travel from your belly to your brain .	整個感覺需要半小時 , 才能從你的肚子傳到你的大腦 。
and by remembering to stop at 80 percent it helps keep you from doing that very thing .	記得80%的時間 , 它能幫助你阻止你去做這件事 。
but , like sardinia , okinawa has a few social constructs that we can associate with longevity .	但 , 像sardinia , okinawa有幾個社交建設 , 我們可以和長壽相關 。
we know that isolation kills .	我們知道孤立殺戮 。
fifteen years ago , the average american had three good friends .	15年前 , 美國人平均有三個好朋友 。
we're down to one and half right now .	我們現在已經降到一半了 。
if you were lucky enough to be born in okinawa , you were born into a system where you automatically have a half a dozen friends with whom you travel through life .	如果你夠幸運 , 出生在okinawa , 你就出生在一個系統中 , 你自動擁有半十個朋友 , 和你經歷過生命的旅行 。
they call it a moai . and if you're in a moai you're expected to share the bounty if you encounter luck , and if things go bad , child gets sick , parent dies , you always have somebody who has your back .	他們稱之為 「 摩艾 」 。 如果你在摩艾 」 裡 , 你預期會分享你的責任 , 如果你幸運的話 , 如果事情不好 , 孩子生病了 , 父母死了 , 你總是有你的背心 。
this particular moai , these five ladies have been together for 97 years .	這個獨特的摩艾 , 這五位女士已經九十七年了 。
their average age is 102 .	平均年齡是102歲 。
typically in america we've divided our adult life up into two sections .	通常在美國 , 我們把成人的生活分成兩區 。
there is our work life , where we're productive .	我們的工作是有生產力的 。
and then one day , boom , we retire .	有一天 , 我們退休了 。
and typically that has meant retiring to the easy chair , or going down to arizona to play golf .	一般來說 , 這意味著退休到簡單的椅子上 , 或是去亞利桑那州玩高爾夫 。
in the okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement .	在okinawan的語言中 , 甚至沒有退休的詞語 。
instead there is one word that imbues your entire life , and that word is " ikigai . "	取而代之的是 , 一生中有一種詞 , 那就是 「 ikigai 」 。
and , roughly translated , it means " the reason for which you wake up in the morning . "	差不多翻譯了 , 意思是 「 早上醒來的原因 。 」
for this 102yearold karate master , his ikigai was carrying forth this martial art .	至於這個102歲的karate大師 , 他的伊基加伊基加尼帶著這場戰術 。
for this hundredyearold fisherman it was continuing to catch fish for his family three times a week .	對這百歲的漁夫而言 , 每週捕魚三次 。
and this is a question . the national institute on aging actually gave us a questionnaire to give these centenarians .	這是個問題 。 國家老化研究所給了我們一個問卷 , 來給予這些百歲人 。
and one of the questions , they were very culturally astute , the people who put the questionnaire .	其中一個問題是 , 他們是非常文化化的研究者 , 那些把問卷放在一起的人 。
one of the questions was , " what is your ikigai ? "	其中一個問題是: 「 你的ikigai是什麼 ? 」
they instantly knew why they woke up in the morning .	他們馬上就知道為什麼早上起床 。
for this 102 year old woman , her ikigai was simply her greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	對於這位102歲的女子來說 , 她的伊基加伊只是她的曾曾曾孫女 。
two girls separated in age by 101 and a half years .	兩個女孩在101年分離 。
and i asked her what it felt like to hold a greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	我問她 , 拿著一位曾曾曾祖父的感覺是什麼樣的感覺 。
and she put her head back and she said , " it feels like leaping into heaven . "	她回頭說: 「 感覺就像跳進天堂 。 」
i thought that was a wonderful thought .	我覺得那是個很棒的想法 。
my editor at geographic wanted me to find america's blue zone .	我在地理學的編輯希望我能找到美國的藍色區域 。
and for a while we looked on the prairies of minnesota , where actually there is a very high proportion of centenarians .	一陣子我們看了明尼蘇達的草原 , 實際上 , 百歲人的比例非常高 。
but that's because all the young people left .	但那是因為所有的年輕人都離開了 。
so , we turned to the data again .	所以 , 我們又轉向資料 。
and we found america's longestlived population among the seventhday adventists concentrated in and around loma linda , california .	我們發現美國在加州洛馬林達州的第七天冒險人數最長的族群 。
adventists are conservative methodists .	激進分子是保守的方法主義者 。
they celebrate their sabbath from sunset on friday till sunset on saturday .	他們在星期五日的日落慶祝他們的安息日 , 直到星期六 。
a " 24hour sanctuary in time , " they call it .	他們稱之為 「 24小時的庇護所 」 。
and they follow five little habits that conveys to them extraordinary longevity , comparatively speaking .	他們遵循五個小習慣 , 傳達給他們非凡的長壽 。
in america here , life expectancy for the average woman is 80 .	在美國 , 平均女性的平均壽命是80歲 。
but for an adventist woman , their life expectancy is 89 .	但對於一個先進的女人而言 , 他們的壽命是89歲 。
and the difference is even more pronounced among men , who are expected to live about 11 years longer than their american counterparts .	差別在於男性中更有發音 , 他們預期能活到比美國人多11年 。
now , this is a study that followed about 70 , 000 people for 30 years .	這個研究追蹤了大約七萬人三十年 。
sterling study . and i think it supremely illustrates the premise of this blue zone project .	史特林研究 。 我認為它總說明了這個藍色區域計畫的前提 。
this is a heterogeneous community .	這是個異型的社區 。
it's white , black , hispanic , asian .	是白人、黑人、西班牙人、亞洲人 。
the only thing that they have in common are a set of very small lifestyle habits that they follow ritualistically for most of their lives .	他們唯一共通之處是一組非常小型的生活習慣 , 他們大部分的時間都遵循著儀式 。
they take their diet directly from the bible .	他們直接從聖經中獲得飲食 。
genesis: chapter one , verse [29] , where god talks about legumes and seeds , and on one more stanza about green plants , ostensibly missing is meat .	辛蒂斯:第一章 , 詩句 , 上帝談到法律和種子 , 在另一個斯坦扎亞 , 關於綠色植物 , 很明顯地缺少肉類 。
they take this sanctuary in time very serious .	他們認真看待這個庇護所 。
for 24 hours every week , no matter how busy they are , how stressed out they are at work , where the kids need to be driven , they stop everything and they focus on their god , their social network , and then , hardwired right in the religion , are nature walks .	每週24小時 , 不論他們多忙、工作有多緊張 , 孩子需要被開車 , 停下一切 , 把焦點放在上帝、社交網路 , 接著 , 在宗教中 , 天性會走路 。
and the power of this is not that it's done occasionally , the power is it's done every week for a lifetime .	這種力量並不是偶爾會完成 , 它的力量是每週完成的 , 一生都在做 。
none of it's hard . none of it costs money .	沒有一個是困難的 。 沒有一個花錢 。
adventists also tend to hang out with other adventists .	激進份子也傾向於與其他先進份子混在一起 。
so , if you go to an adventist's party you don't see people swilling jim beam or rolling a joint .	所以 , 如果你去參加一個冒險家的派對 , 你看不到人們在揮舞吉姆貝姆或轉動關節 。
instead they're talking about their next nature walk , exchanging recipes , and yes , they pray .	相反地 , 他們在談論他們的下一天行走 , 交換食譜 , 是的 , 他們祈禱 。
but they influence each other in profound and measurable ways .	但它們會以深刻且可測量的方式影響彼此 。
this is a culture that has yielded ellsworth whareham .	這是一種文化 , 產生了 「 埃爾斯威爾斯 」 的文化 。
ellsworth whareham is 97 years old .	埃爾斯威爾斯•沃雷罕是97歲 。
he's a multimillionaire , yet when a contractor wanted 6 , 000 dollars to build a privacy fence , he said , " for that kind of money i'll do it myself . "	他是百萬富翁 , 但當一個承包商想要六千美金來建造一個隱私的柵欄時 , 他說: 「 為了那類的錢 , 我會自己做 。 」
so for the next three days he was out shoveling cement , and hauling poles around .	接下來的三天 , 他出去吃水泥 , 四處游泳 。
and predictably , perhaps , on the fourth day he ended up in the operating room .	或許 , 在第四天 , 他最後進了手術室 。
but not as the guy on the table ; the guy doing openheart surgery .	但不是坐在桌上的人 ; 那個做開心手術的人 。
at 97 he still does 20 openheart surgeries every month .	九十七歲時 , 他仍然每個月進行二十次開心手術 。
ed rawlings , 103 years old now , an active cowboy , starts his morning with a swim .	艾德•萊恩斯 , 103歲 , 一位活躍的牛仔 , 早上開始游泳 。
and on weekends he likes to put on the boards , throw up rooster tails .	在週末 , 他喜歡把板子放在板子上 , 丟出rooster尾巴 。
her grandson actually lives in the twin cities here .	她的孫子其實住在雙胞胎城市 。
she starts her day with lifting weights .	她每天從舉重開始 。
she rides her bicycle .	她騎腳踏車 。
and then she gets in her rootbeer colored 1994 cadillac seville , and tears down the san bernardino freeway , where she still volunteers for seven different organizations .	然後她在她的根部裡彩色了1994年的卡迪拉克•塞維爾 , 在聖貝納迪諾的高速公路上流淚 , 她仍然為七個不同的組織志工 。
i've been on 19 hardcore expeditions .	我已經在十九次探險 。
i'm probably the only person you'll ever meet who rode his bicycle across the sahara desert without sunscreen .	我可能是唯一一個穿越撒哈拉沙漠的自行車的人 , 卻沒有陽光 。
but i'll tell you , there is no adventure more harrowing than riding shotgun with marge deton .	但我要告訴各位 , 沒有冒險比發生馬奇德頓騎士更嚴厲的冒險 。
" a stranger is a friend i haven't met yet ! " she'd say to me .	「 陌生人是我還沒見過的朋友 ! 」 她對我說 。
so , what are the common denominators in these three cultures ?	所以 , 這三種文化中有什麼共同點 ?
what are the things that they all do ?	他們會怎麼做 ?
and we managed to boil it down to nine .	我們成功把它歸結為九個 。
in fact we've done two more blue zone expeditions since this and these common denominators hold true .	事實上 , 自此之後 , 我們再做了兩次藍色區域探險 , 和這些共同的決策者持有真相 。
and the first one , and i'm about to utter a heresy here , none of them exercise , at least the way we think of exercise .	首先 , 我將要說一個在這裡 , 沒有一個運動 , 至少我們對運動的看法 。
instead , they set up their lives so that they are constantly nudged into physical activity .	相反的 , 他們設立了自己的人生 , 以便他們不斷地被導入實體活動 。
these 100yearold okinawan women are getting up and down off the ground , they sit on the floor , 30 or 40 times a day .	這些百歲的okinawan女性在地面上上上下 , 她們每天坐著30到40次 。
sardinians live in vertical houses , up and down the stairs .	薩丁尼亞人住在垂直的房子裡 , 上下樓 。
every trip to the store , or to church or to a friend's house occasions a walk .	每趟到商店 , 或教堂 , 或朋友的家裡偶爾會走路 。
they don't have any conveniences .	他們沒有任何方便 。
there is not a button to push to do yard work or house work .	不需要按下按鈕去做院子或房子工作 。
if they want to mix up a cake , they're doing it by hand .	如果他們想混合蛋糕 , 他們會用手做 。
that burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does .	那種燃燒卡路里和跑步機一樣 。
when they do do intentional physical activity , it's the things they enjoy . they tend to walk , the only proven way to stave off cognitive decline , and they all tend to have a garden .	當他們做實體活動時 , 他們很享受 。 他們傾向於走路 , 唯一能證明認知衰退的方法 , 且他們都傾向有花園 。
they know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook .	他們知道如何以正確的方式建立自己的人生 , 讓他們有正確的外觀 。
each of these cultures take time to downshift .	每一種文化都需要時間降低轉變 。
the sardinians pray . the seventhday adventists pray .	沙丁尼亞人祈禱 , 第七天的冒險家祈禱 。
the okinawans have this ancestor veneration .	okinawans有這種祖先的陰謀 。
but when you're in a hurry or stressed out , that triggers something called the inflammatory response , which is associated with everything from alzheimer's disease to cardiovascular disease .	但當你急著或緊張時 , 會觸發一種叫做發炎反應的東西 , 它會和阿茲海默症及心血管疾病有關 。
when you slow down for 15 minutes a day you turn that inflammatory state into a more antiinflammatory state .	當你一天放慢15分鐘 , 你會把這種發炎狀態轉變成更加抗炎的狀態 。
they have vocabulary for sense of purpose , ikigai , like the okinawans .	他們有詞彙的意義 , 伊基加 , 就像okinawans一樣 。
you know the two most dangerous years in your life are the year you're born , because of infant mortality , and the year you retire .	你知道你生命中最危險的兩年是你出生的那一年 , 因為嬰兒死亡率 , 而你退休的那一年 。
these people know their sense of purpose , and they activate in their life , that's worth about seven years of extra life expectancy .	這些人知道自己的目的 , 他們在生命中活化 , 價值約七年的預期壽命 。
there's no longevity diet .	沒有長壽的飲食 。
instead , these people drink a little bit every day , not a hard sell to the american population .	相反地 , 這些人每天都喝一點飲料 , 而不是賣給美國人口 。
they tend to eat a plantbased diet .	他們傾向會吃植物的飲食 。
doesn't mean they don't eat meat , but lots of beans and nuts .	不代表他們不吃肉 , 而是很多豆子和堅果 。
and they have strategies to keep from overeating , little things that nudge them away from the table at the right time .	他們有策略 , 避免過度侵蝕 , 一些小東西 , 讓它們在適當的時間離開桌子 。
and then the foundation of all this is how they connect .	所有這些都是他們如何連結的基礎 。
they put their families first , take care of their children and their aging parents .	他們先照顧他們的家人 , 照顧他們的孩子和老年父母 。
they all tend to belong to a faithbased community , which is worth between four and 14 extra years of life expectancy if you do it four times a month .	他們都歸屬於信仰型社區 , 每月四到十四年的預期壽命是值得的 。
and the biggest thing here is they also belong to the right tribe .	最重要的是 , 它們也屬於正確的部落 。
they were either born into or they proactively surrounded themselves with the right people .	他們不是出生就好 , 或主動地把自己圍繞在對的人身上 。
we know from the framingham studies , that if your three best friends are obese there is a 50 percent better chance that you'll be overweight .	我們從弗萊明罕的研究得知 , 如果你的三個最好的朋友過胖了50%的機率會是過重的 。
so , if you hang out with unhealthy people , that's going to have a measurable impact over time .	所以 , 如果你和不健康的人在一起 , 那會隨著時間產生很大的影響 。
instead , if your friend's idea of recreation is physical activity , bowling , or playing hockey , biking or gardening , if your friends drink a little , but not too much , and they eat right , and they're engaged , and they're trusting and trustworthy , that is going to have the biggest impact over time .	相反地 , 如果你的朋友的娛樂想法是身體活動、弓 , 或玩曲棍球 , 如果你的朋友喝一點點 , 但卻不太多 , 他們會吃對的 , 而且他們很有信任和信任感 , 會隨著時間產生最大的影響 。
diets don't work . no diet in the history of the world has ever worked for more than two percent of the population .	飲食行不通 , 世界歷史上沒有飲食 , 超過2%的人口 。
exercise programs usually start in january ; they're usually done by october .	運動計畫通常在一月開始 , 通常是十月時完成的 。
when it comes to longevity there is no short term fix in a pill or anything else .	當談到長壽時 , 沒有短期的條件在藥丸或其他其他的條件 。
but when you think about it , your friends are longterm adventures , and therefore , perhaps the most significant thing you can do to add more years to your life , and life to your years . thank you very much .	但當你仔細想想 , 你的朋友是長期的冒險 , 因此 , 也許是你能做的最重要的事 , 把更多年加入你的生活 , 多年 , 非常謝謝你 。
ink that conducts electricity ; a window that turns from clear to opaque at the flip of a switch ; a jelly that makes music . all this stuff exists , and catarina mota says: it's time to play with it . mota leads us on a tour of surprising and cool new materials , and suggests that the way we'll figure out what they're good for is to experiment , tinker and have fun .	墨水會產生電力 ; 一扇窗戶 , 從明顯轉移到開關上 ; 水母會製造音樂 。 所有這些東西都存在 。 卡塔爾說:該和它玩的時候了 。 莫塔會帶領我們到令人驚訝又酷的新材料 , 並且建議我們想出它們的好處 , 要做實驗、調整、有樂趣 。
creativity , design , technology	創造力 , 設計 , 科技 , 科技 。
catarina mota: play with smart materials	catarinamota:用智能材料玩耍 。
i have a friend in portugal whose grandfather built a vehicle out of a bicycle and a washing machine so he could transport his family .	我在葡萄牙有個朋友 , 他的祖父用腳踏車建造了一台車 , 洗衣機 , 這樣他就可以運送他的家人 。
he did it because he couldn't afford a car , but also because he knew how to build one .	他這麼做是因為他負擔不起車 , 也因為他知道如何建造一台 。
there was a time when we understood how things worked and how they were made , so we could build and repair them , or at the very least make informed decisions about what to buy .	曾有一段時間 , 我們了解事物如何運作 , 以及它們如何製造、修復 , 或最少有知情的決定如何購買 。
many of these doityourself practices were lost in the second half of the 20th century .	許多這些做法在20世紀後半葉就失去了 。
but now , the maker community and the opensource model are bringing this kind of knowledge about how things work and what they're made of back into our lives , and i believe we need to take them to the next level , to the components things are made of .	但現在 , 製造者社群和開放原始碼模型正帶著這種知識 , 了解事物是如何運作的 , 以及它們在我們的生活中所形成的 , 我相信我們需要把它們帶到下一個層級 , 到下一個層級 , 來組成東西 。
for the most part , we still know what traditional materials like paper and textiles are made of and how they are produced .	大部分時候 , 我們仍然知道傳統的材料 , 像是紙和紡織品 , 以及它們如何製造 。
but now we have these amazing , futuristic composites plastics that change shape , paints that conduct electricity , pigments that change color , fabrics that light up .	但現在我們有了這些令人驚奇的生物複合物 , 可以改變形狀、導電、顏料 , 改變顏色的顏料、亮的布料 。
let me show you some examples .	讓我給你們看一些例子 。
so conductive ink allows us to paint circuits instead of using the traditional printed circuit boards or wires .	導電墨能讓我們繪製電路 , 而不是使用傳統印刷電路板或電線 。
in the case of this little example i'm holding , we used it to create a touch sensor that reacts to my skin by turning on this little light .	在我握住的這個小例子中 , 我們用它來創造一個觸感感感感應器 , 藉由打開這個小光來反應我的皮膚 。
conductive ink has been used by artists , but recent developments indicate that we will soon be able to use it in laser printers and pens .	藝術家的導電墨水已經被使用 , 但最近的發展顯示 , 我們很快就能用雷射印表機和筆 。
and this is a sheet of acrylic infused with colorless lightdiffusing particles .	這張是一張白紙 , 裝滿無色的光驅動粒子 。
what this means is that , while regular acrylic only diffuses light around the edges , this one illuminates across the entire surface when i turn on the lights around it .	這意味著 , 雖然一般的加密方法只會在邊緣散射光 , 但當我打開它周圍的燈光時 , 這個光會照亮整個表面 。
two of the known applications for this material include interior design and multitouch systems .	這個材料中有兩個已知的應用 , 包括內部設計和多觸控系統 。
and thermochromic pigments change color at a given temperature .	溫度的色素改變了特定溫度的顏色 。
so i'm going to place this on a hot plate that is set to a temperature only slightly higher than ambient and you can see what happens .	所以我要把這個裝置放在一個溫度的板子上 , 溫度只有稍高一點 , 你可以看到發生了什麼事 。
so one of the principle applications for this material is , amongst other things , in baby bottles , so it indicates when the contents are cool enough to drink .	所以 , 這種材料的其中一項原則是 , 在其他東西中 , 在嬰兒瓶子裡 , 它指出內容夠冷 , 可以喝 。
so these are just a few of what are commonly known as smart materials .	這些只是我們所知的智慧材料 。
in a few years , they will be in many of the objects and technologies we use on a daily basis .	幾年後 , 它們會出現在我們每天使用的物品和科技中 。
we may not yet have the flying cars science fiction promised us , but we can have walls that change color depending on temperature , keyboards that roll up , and windows that become opaque at the flick of a switch .	我們可能還沒有飛行車科幻小說保證我們 , 但是我們可以有不同顏色的牆面 , 根據溫度 , 鍵盤上滾動 , 窗戶在開關上變成不透明的 。
so i'm a social scientist by training , so why am i here today talking about smart materials ?	我是社會科學家 , 為什麼我今天要談智慧材料 ?
well first of all , because i am a maker .	首先 , 因為我是製造家 。
i'm curious about how things work and how they are made , but also because i believe we should have a deeper understanding of the components that make up our world , and right now , we don't know enough about these hightech composites our future will be made of .	我很好奇事物是如何運作的 , 也因為我相信我們應該更深入了解構成我們世界的元件 , 而現在 , 我們對這些高科技組成的構成不夠了解 。
smart materials are hard to obtain in small quantities .	智慧材料很難在很小的量子中取得 。
there's barely any information available on how to use them , and very little is said about how they are produced .	幾乎沒有任何資訊可以用在如何使用它們 , 幾乎沒有提到它們是如何產生的 。
so for now , they exist mostly in this realm of trade secrets and patents only universities and corporations have access to .	所以現在 , 他們主要存在於貿易秘密和專利的領域 , 只有大學和企業才能取得 。
so a little over three years ago , kirsty boyle and i started a project we called open materials .	三年前 , kirsty男孩和我創立了一個專案 , 我們稱之為開放材料 。
it's a website where we , and anyone else who wants to join us , share experiments , publish information , encourage others to contribute whenever they can , and aggregate resources such as research papers and tutorials by other makers like ourselves .	它是一個網站 , 我們和任何想要加入我們的人 , 分享實驗、發表資訊 , 鼓勵其他人 , 無論何時能 , 都能貢獻資源 , 例如研究論文和教學者 , 像我們一樣 。
we would like it to become a large , collectively generated database of doityourself information on smart materials .	我們希望它能成為一個龐大、集體的資料庫 , 可以用智慧材料來產生資訊 。
but why should we care how smart materials work and what they are made of ?	但為什麼我們要關心聰明的材料是如何運作的 ?
first of all , because we can't shape what we don't understand , and what we don't understand and use ends up shaping us .	首先 , 因為我們無法形塑我們不了解的 , 最後我們不了解和使用的塑造我們 。
the objects we use , the clothes we wear , the houses we live in , all have a profound impact on our behavior , health and quality of life .	我們用的物品、衣服、我們住的房子 , 都對我們的行為、健康和生活品質有很深的影響 。
so if we are to live in a world made of smart materials , we should know and understand them .	所以 , 如果我們要生活在一個由智慧材料組成的世界 , 我們應該要知道、了解它們 。
secondly , and just as important , innovation has always been fueled by tinkerers .	第二 , 同樣重要的是 , 創新一直都是靠補丁者來燃料 。
so many times , amateurs , not experts , have been the inventors and improvers of things ranging from mountain bikes to semiconductors , personal computers , airplanes .	很多時候 , 業餘人士 , 不是專家 , 都是發明家和改善的東西 , 從山腳踏車到半導體、個人電腦、飛機 。
the biggest challenge is that material science is complex and requires expensive equipment .	最大的挑戰是 , 材料科學是複雜且需要昂貴的設備 。
but that's not always the case .	但事實並非如此 。
two scientists at university of illinois understood this when they published a paper on a simpler method for making conductive ink .	伊利諾大學的兩個科學家明白這一點 , 當他們發表一篇文章時 , 他們用比較簡單的方法來製作導電墨水 。
jordan bunker , who had had no experience with chemistry until then , read this paper and reproduced the experiment at his maker space using only offtheshelf substances and tools .	jordanbunker , 直到那時 , 他完全沒有化學經驗 , 讀了這篇論文 , 並在他的製造商空間中重複這個實驗 , 只用現成的物質和工具 。
he used a toaster oven , and he even made his own vortex mixer , based on a tutorial by another scientist/maker .	他用烤箱 , 甚至製作自己的呼吸道混合器 , 根據另一位科學家/製造者的教學 。
jordan then published his results online , including all the things he had tried and didn't work , so others could study and reproduce it .	約旦接著發表他的結果在網路上 , 包括他試過的所有事情 , 沒有用 , 其他人可以研究並複製它 。
so jordan's main form of innovation was to take an experiment created in a wellequipped lab at the university and recreate it in a garage in chicago using only cheap materials and tools he made himself .	所以 , 約旦的主要創新形式是把一個在芝加哥的一個完整的實驗室中創造出來的實驗 , 只用便宜的材料和工具 , 讓他自己成為 。
and now that he published this work , others can pick up where he left and devise even simpler processes and improvements .	現在他發表了這個作品 , 其他人可以在他離開的地方找到更簡單的過程和改善 。
another example i'd like to mention her project's goal is to highlight the expressive qualities of materials while focusing on the creativity and skills of the builder .	另外一個例子 , 我想提到她的專案目標是強調材料的表達品質 , 同時專注在建造者的創意和技能上 。
electronics kits are very powerful in that they teach us how things work , but the constraints inherent in their design influence the way we learn .	電子裝置對我們來說是非常強大的 , 它們教導我們事物是如何運作的 , 但在它們的設計中 , 限制會影響我們學習的方式 。
so hannah's approach , on the other hand , is to formulate a series of techniques for creating unusual objects that free us from predesigned constraints by teaching us about the materials themselves .	另一方面 , 漢娜的做法是組合一系列的技術 , 來創造出不尋常的物品 , 讓我們無法預定的限制 , 透過教導我們材料本身 。
so amongst hannah's many impressive experiments , this is one of my favorites .	漢娜有很多令人印象深刻的實驗 , 這是我最愛的之一 。
[ " paper speakers " ] what we're seeing here is just a piece of paper with some copper tape on it connected to an mp3 player and a magnet .	我們現在看到的只是一張紙 , 上面有一些銅膠帶 , 連接到mp3播放器和磁鐵 。
so based on the research by marcelo coelho from mit , hannah created a series of paper speakers out of a wide range of materials from simple copper tape to conductive fabric and ink .	所以 , 根據麻省理工學院的馬塞羅柯爾研究 , 漢娜創造了一系列的紙喇叭 , 用各種簡單的銅膠膠帶 , 變成導電布和墨水 。
just like jordan and so many other makers , hannah published her recipes and allows anyone to copy and reproduce them .	就像約旦和許多其他製造家一樣 , 漢娜發表了她的食譜 , 讓任何人可以複製並複製它們 。
but paper electronics is one of the most promising branches of material science in that it allows us to create cheaper and flexible electronics .	但紙電子產品是最有前景的材料科學分支之一 , 讓我們能創造出更便宜、更有彈性的電子產品 。
so hannah's artisanal work , and the fact that she shared her findings , opens the doors to a series of new possibilities that are both aesthetically appealing and innovative .	所以漢娜的手工藝作品 , 她分享她的發現 , 把一連串的門打開 , 帶給一系列的新可能 , 兩者都具有美感和創新 。
so the interesting thing about makers is that we create out of passion and curiosity , and we are not afraid to fail .	製造者有趣的是 , 我們創造出熱情和好奇心 , 我們不怕失敗 。
we often tackle problems from unconventional angles , and , in the process , end up discovering alternatives or even better ways to do things .	我們經常處理非傳統的角度問題 , 在過程中 , 最終發現了替代方案 , 甚至更好的方式來做事 。
so the more people experiment with materials , the more researchers are willing to share their research , and manufacturers their knowledge , the better chances we have to create technologies that truly serve us all .	越多人用材料做實驗 , 越多的研究人員願意分享他們的研究 , 製造他們的知識 , 我們就越有可能創造出真正服務我們所有人的科技 。
so i feel a bit as ted nelson must have when , in the early 1970s , he wrote , " you must understand computers now . "	我覺得tednelson在1970年代早期 , 他寫道: 「 你們現在一定要了解電腦 。 」
back then , computers were these large mainframes only scientists cared about , and no one dreamed of even having one at home .	當時 , 電腦只是這些大型的主體 , 只有科學家在乎 , 甚至沒有人夢想在家裡有一次 。
so it's a little strange that i'm standing here and saying , " you must understand smart materials now . "	所以這有點奇怪 , 我站在這裡說: 「 你現在必須了解智慧材料 。 」
just keep in mind that acquiring preemptive knowledge about emerging technologies is the best way to ensure that we have a say in the making of our future .	請記住 , 收集了關於新興科技的先進知識 , 是確保我們在未來有發言權的最佳方式 。
when we drive , we get into a glass bubble , lock the doors and press the accelerator , relying on our eyes to guide us even though we can only see the few cars ahead of and behind us . but what if cars could share data with each other about their position and velocity , and use predictive models to calculate the safest routes for everyone on the road ? jennifer healey imagines a world without accidents .	當我們開車時 , 我們進入一個玻璃泡 , 鎖上門 , 按下加速器 , 靠我們的眼睛去引導我們 , 即使我們只能在我們身後看到少數的車子 。 但如果車子可以彼此分享他們的位置和速度 , 用預測模型來計算路上的所有人 , 珍妮佛•亨利想像一個沒有意外的世界 。
jennifer healey: if cars could talk , accidents might be avoidable	珍妮佛:如果車子能說話 , 意外可能是無法避免的 。
let's face it: driving is dangerous .	讓我們面對現實:開車是危險的 。
it's one of the things that we don't like to think about , but the fact that religious icons and good luck charms show up on dashboards around the world betrays the fact that we know this to be true .	這是我們不喜歡思考的其中一件事 , 但宗教的圖標和好運運魅力出現在世界各地的儀表上 , 背叛了我們所知道的事實 。
car accidents are the leading cause of death in people ages 16 to 19 in the united states leading cause of death and 75 percent of these accidents have nothing to do with drugs or alcohol .	車禍是16到19歲的人死亡的主要原因 , 美國的主要原因是死亡 , 75%的意外與毒品或酒精無關 。
no one can say for sure , but i remember my first accident .	沒有人可以說是肯定的 , 但我記得我的第一個意外 。
i was a young driver out on the highway , and the car in front of me , i saw the brake lights go on .	我當時是一名年輕的司機在高速公路上 , 前面的車子 , 我看到煞車的燈亮了 。
i'm like , " okay , all right , this guy is slowing down , i'll slow down too . "	我說: 「 好吧 , 這個傢伙正在慢下來 , 我也會慢下來 。 」
i step on the brake .	我踏上煞車 。
but no , this guy isn't slowing down .	但不 , 這個傢伙並沒有慢下來 。
this guy is stopping , dead stop , dead stop on the highway .	這傢伙在高速公路上停下來 , 死了 。
it was just going 65 to zero ?	只剩下65到0 ?
i slammed on the brakes .	我在煞車上滑雪 。
i felt the abs kick in , and the car is still going , and it's not going to stop , and i know it's not going to stop , and the air bag deploys , the car is totaled , and fortunately , no one was hurt .	我感覺到abs進來 , 車子還在前 , 它不會停下來 , 我知道它不會停下來 , 空氣袋部署 , 車子已經完整 , 幸運的是 , 沒有人受傷 。
but i had no idea that car was stopping , and i think we can do a lot better than that .	但我完全不知道車在停下來 , 我認為我們可以做得更好 。
i think we can transform the driving experience by letting our cars talk to each other .	我認為我們可以改變駕駛經驗 , 讓車子彼此交談 。
i just want you to think a little bit about what the experience of driving is like now .	我想請各位稍微想想現在開車的經驗 。
get into your car . close the door . you're in a glass bubble .	走進你的車子 , 關上門 , 你在玻璃泡沫中 。
you can't really directly sense the world around you .	你無法直接感受到周圍的世界 。
you're in this extended body .	你身在這個延伸的身體裡 。
you're tasked with navigating it down partiallyseen roadways , in and amongst other metal giants , at superhuman speeds .	你的工作任務是將它運送到一部分的路上 , 進到其他金屬巨人當中 , 以超人速度 。
okay ? and all you have to guide you are your two eyes .	好嗎 ? 你只需要引導你兩個眼睛 。
okay , so that's all you have , eyes that weren't really designed for this task , but then people ask you to do things like , you want to make a lane change , what's the first thing they ask you do ?	好吧 , 這就是你所擁有的眼睛 , 不是真的為了這個任務而設計的 , 但人們會問你 , 你想要做出改變 , 他們要做的第一件事是什麼 ?
take your eyes off the road . that's right .	把你的眼睛從路上移開 , 沒錯 。
stop looking where you're going , turn , check your blind spot , and drive down the road without looking where you're going .	別再看你要去哪裡 , 轉過來 , 檢查你的盲點 , 並且在路上開車 , 不用看你要去哪裡 。
you and everyone else . this is the safe way to drive .	你和其他人 。 這是安全的駕駛方式 。
why do we do this ? because we have to , we have to make a choice , do i look here or do i look here ?	為什麼我們要這樣做 ? 因為我們必須做選擇 , 我看這裡還是這裡 ?
and usually we do a fantastic job picking and choosing what we attend to on the road .	通常 , 我們會做很棒的工作 , 選擇我們在路上的目的 。
but occasionally we miss something .	但偶爾我們會錯過一些東西 。
occasionally we sense something wrong or too late .	偶爾 , 我們會感覺出錯或太遲 。
in countless accidents , the driver says , " i didn't see it coming . "	在無數的意外中 , 司機說: 「 我看不到它會來 。 」
and i believe that . i believe that .	我相信 , 我相信這一點 。
we can only watch so much .	我們只能看到這麼多 。
but the technology exists now that can help us improve that .	但現在科技的存在可以幫助我們改善這一點 。
in the future , with cars exchanging data with each other , we will be able to see not just three cars ahead and three cars behind , to the right and left , all at the same time , bird's eye view , we will actually be able to see into those cars .	在未來 , 車子彼此交換資料 , 我們不僅可以看見三輛車後面還有三輛車 , 左邊 , 都可以看得出來 , 鳥眼睛看得見這些車子 。
we will be able to see the velocity of the car in front of us , to see how fast that guy's going or stopping .	我們能看到前面的車速率 , 看看那傢伙會跑得多快或停止 。
if that guy's going down to zero , i'll know .	如果那個人下降到零 , 我就會知道 。
and with computation and algorithms and predictive models , we will be able to see the future .	有了計算、演算法和預測模型 , 我們就能看見未來 。
you may think that's impossible .	你可能認為不可能 。
how can you predict the future ? that's really hard .	你要如何預測未來 ? 這真的很困難 。
actually , no . with cars , it's not impossible .	事實上 , 沒有 。 車子沒有 , 不可能 。
cars are threedimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity .	車子是立體的物體 , 有固定的位置和速度 。
they travel down roads .	他們沿著道路走 。
often they travel on prepublished routes .	通常他們會在出版的路線上旅行 。
it's really not that hard to make reasonable predictions about where a car's going to be in the near future .	要預測車子在不久的將來會到哪裡是不難的 。
even if , when you're in your car and some motorcyclist comes bshoom ! 85 miles an hour down , lanesplitting i know you've had this experience that guy didn't " just come out of nowhere . "	即使你在車上 , 一些摩托車騎士來到bsshoom ! 每小時85英里 , 我知道你有過這種經驗 , 那個人沒有 「 過世 」 。
that guy's been on the road probably for the last half hour .	那傢伙可能已經在路上待了半小時 。
right ? i mean , somebody's seen him .	對吧 ? 我的意思是 , 有人看過他 。
ten , 20 , 30 miles back , someone's seen that guy , and as soon as one car sees that guy and puts him on the map , he's on the map position , velocity , good estimate he'll continue going 85 miles an hour .	10、20、30英哩後 , 有人看過那傢伙 , 當一輛車看到那個人 , 把他放在地圖上 , 他在地圖上的位置、速度、很好的估計 , 他會每小時持續85英哩 。
you'll know , because your car will know , because that other car will have whispered something in his ear , like , " by the way , five minutes , motorcyclist , watch out . "	你會知道 , 因為你的車會知道 , 因為其他車子會在耳朵裡發出一些東西 , 像是: 「 順道一提 , 五分鐘 , 摩托車騎士 , 看 。 」
you can make reasonable predictions about how cars behave .	你可以針對汽車的行為做出合理的預測 。
i mean , they're newtonian objects .	我的意思是 , 他們是牛頓的物品 。
that's very nice about them .	這對他們來說很棒 。
so how do we get there ?	所以 , 我們要如何達成目標 ?
we can start with something as simple as sharing our position data between cars , just sharing gps .	我們可以從簡單的開始 , 如分享汽車之間的位置資料 , 只要分享gps 。
if i have a gps and a camera in my car , i have a pretty precise idea of where i am and how fast i'm going .	如果我的車子裡有gps和攝影機 , 我對我在哪裡 , 以及我要走得多快 。
with computer vision , i can estimate where the cars around me are , sort of , and where they're going .	有了電腦視覺 , 我可以估計我身邊的汽車在哪裡 , 有點像是在哪裡 。
and same with the other cars .	另一輛車也一樣 。
they can have a precise idea of where they are , and sort of a vague idea of where the other cars are .	他們可以精確地看出他們在哪裡 , 並且有點模糊地看待其他車輛在哪裡 。
what happens if two cars share that data , if they talk to each other ?	如果兩輛車彼此交流 , 會發生什麼事 ?
i can tell you exactly what happens .	我可以告訴你們發生了什麼事 。
professor bob wang and his team have done computer simulations of what happens when fuzzy estimates combine , even in light traffic , when cars just share gps data , and we've moved this research out of the computer simulation and into robot test beds that have the actual sensors that are in cars now on these robots: stereo cameras , gps , and the twodimensional laser range finders that are common in backup systems .	bobwang教授和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 當模糊的估計結合時 , 甚至在燈泡交通時 , 當汽車只是分享gps資料時 , 我們把這項研究從電腦模擬中移出 , 到機器人測試的床上 , 裡面有現在汽車的實際感應器:stereo攝影機、gps , 以及2d雷射雷射探測器 , 在系統中很常見 。
we also attach a discrete shortrange communication radio , and the robots talk to each other .	我們也將短距離的通訊無線電連接在一起 , 機器人彼此交談 。
when these robots come at each other , they track each other's position precisely , and they can avoid each other .	當這些機器人彼此接觸時 , 它們會精確地追蹤彼此的位置 , 它們會避免彼此 。
we're now adding more and more robots into the mix , and we encountered some problems .	我們現在在混合中加入越來越多的機器人 , 我們遇到了一些問題 。
one of the problems , when you get too much chatter , it's hard to process all the packets , so you have to prioritize , and that's where the predictive model helps you .	其中一個問題是 , 當你收到太多的聊天 , 很難處理所有的包裝 , 所以你必須優先順序 , 這就是預測模式能幫助你 。
if your robot cars are all tracking the predicted trajectories , you don't pay as much attention to those packets .	如果你的機械車都在追蹤預測軌跡 , 你不會注意到這些包裝 。
you prioritize the one guy who seems to be going a little off course .	你將一個看起來有點離譜的人列為優先順序 。
that guy could be a problem .	那傢伙可能會是個問題 。
and you can predict the new trajectory .	你可以預測新的軌跡 。
so you don't only know that he's going off course , you know how .	所以你不只知道他要上課 , 你知道的 。
and you know which drivers you need to alert to get out of the way .	你知道你需要警告哪些驅動力 , 才能脫離 。
and we wanted to do how can we best alert everyone ?	我們想要做我們要如何警告每個人 ?
how can these cars whisper , " you need to get out of the way ? "	這些車怎麼能輕鬆地說: 「 你需要走出路 ? 」
well , it depends on two things: one , the ability of the car , and second the ability of the driver .	嗯 , 它取決於兩件事:第一 , 汽車的能力 , 第二是駕駛的能力 。
if one guy has a really great car , but they're on their phone or , you know , doing something , they're not probably in the best position to react in an emergency .	如果一個人有很棒的車子 , 但他們在手機上 , 或做些什麼 , 他們可能不會在緊急情況下做出最好的反應 。
so we started a separate line of research doing driver state modeling .	所以我們開始了一系列的研究 , 做駕駛式的模型 。
and now , using a series of three cameras , we can detect if a driver is looking forward , looking away , looking down , on the phone , or having a cup of coffee .	現在 , 使用一系列的三台攝影機 , 我們可以偵測到駕駛是否在向前、向下看、在手機上 , 或喝杯咖啡 。
we can predict the accident and we can predict who , which cars , are in the best position to move out of the way to calculate the safest route for everyone .	我們可以預測意外 , 我們可以預測誰 , 哪輛車 , 最好的位置 , 可以從最好的位置走出去 , 來計算每個人最安全的路線 。
fundamentally , these technologies exist today .	基本上 , 這些技術現今存在 。
i think the biggest problem that we face is our own willingness to share our data .	我認為我們面臨的最大的問題是我們願意分享我們的資料 。
i think it's a very disconcerting notion , this idea that our cars will be watching us , talking about us to other cars , that we'll be going down the road in a sea of gossip .	我認為這是個很讓人不安的概念 , 我們的車子會看著我們 , 談論我們和其他車子 , 我們會在八卦的海裡走下路 。
but i believe it can be done in a way that protects our privacy , just like right now , when i look at your car from the outside , i don't really know about you .	但我相信它可以用保護我們的隱私的方式來做 , 就像現在 , 當我從外面看你的車時 , 我其實不知道你 。
if i look at your license plate number , i don't really know who you are .	如果我看一下你的牌子號碼 , 我並不知道你是誰 。
i believe our cars can talk about us behind our backs .	我相信我們的車可以在我們的背後談論我們 。
and i think it's going to be a great thing .	我認為這將會是一件很棒的事 。
i want you to consider for a moment if you really don't want the distracted teenager behind you to know that you're braking , that you're coming to a dead stop .	我希望你能考慮一下一下 , 如果你不希望你背後的那一位分心的青少年知道你在煞車 , 你要停下來 。
by sharing our data willingly , we can do what's best for everyone .	藉著意願分享我們的資料 , 我們就能為每個人做最好的事 。
so let your car gossip about you .	咱們來談談你的車 。
it's going to make the roads a lot safer .	它會讓道路變得更安全 。
x prize founder peter diamandis talks about how he helped stephen hawking fulfill his dream of going to space by flying together into the upper atmosphere and experiencing weightlessness at zero g .	xprize創辦人彼得•戴曼迪斯談到他如何幫助史蒂芬•霍金完成太空的夢想 , 藉由一起飛到上層大氣層 , 體驗無重力 。
business , flight , science , short talk , space , technology , universe	商業、飛行、科學、簡短的談話、空間科技、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙 。
peter diamandis on stephen hawking in zero g	史蒂芬•戴曼迪斯在史蒂芬•霍金的0g中 , 史蒂芬•霍金 。
those of you who know me know how passionate i am about opening the space frontier .	認識我的人知道我對打開太空邊界有多熱情 。
so when i had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity , it was incredible .	所以當我有機會給全世界的重力專家--0重力的體驗 , 實在太不可思議了 。
and i want to tell you that story .	我想告訴各位這個故事 。
i first met him through the archon x prize for genomics .	我第一次見到他 , 是在基因組學的xprize 。
it's a competition we're holding , the second x prize , for the first team to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days .	這是我們所舉辦的競爭第二個xprize , 為了第一個團隊在十天內完成一百個人類基因組定序 。
we have something called the genome 100 100 individuals we're sequencing as part of that .	我們有所謂的基因體100個人 , 我們將其定序為其中的一部分 。
craig venter chairs that event .	克萊格•凡特那次事件的椅子 。
and i met professor hawking , and he said his dream was to travel into space .	我見了霍金教授 , 他說他的夢想是進入太空 。
and i said , " i can't take you there , but i can take you into weightlessness into zerog .	我說: 「 我不能帶你到那裡 , 但我可以把你帶進無重力的零度 。
and he said , on the spot , " absolutely , yes . "	他說: 「 絕對是的 。 」
well , the only way to experience zerog on earth is actually with parabolic flight , weightless flight .	唯一能體驗到地球上零的唯一方法 , 實際上是用拋棄的飛行 , 無重量的飛行 。
you take an airplane , you fly over the top , you're weightless for 25 seconds .	你搭飛機 , 飛越上方 , 體重不到25秒 。
come back down , you weigh twice as much .	再往下看 , 你的重量是兩倍 。
you do it again and again .	你一而再、再而三地做 。
you can get eight , 10 minutes of weightlessness how nasa's trained their astronauts for so long .	你可以得到8、10分鐘的無重量 , 美國太空總署多久以來訓練他們的太空人 。
we set out to do this .	我們開始這樣做 。
it took us 11 years to become operational .	我們花了11年才開始營運 。
and we announced that we were going to fly stephen hawking .	我們宣佈我們要飛史蒂芬霍金 。
we had one government agency and one company aircraft operator say , you're crazy , don't do that , you're going kill the guy .	我們有一間政府機構 , 一間公司飛機操作員說 , 你瘋了 , 別這樣做 , 你要殺了這個人 。
and he wanted to go .	他想要去 。
we worked hard to get all the permissions .	我們努力取得所有許可 。
and six months later , we sat down at kennedy space center .	六個月後 , 我們坐在甘迺迪太空中心 。
we had a press conference , we announced our intent to do one zerog parabola , give him 25 seconds of zerog .	我們參加了一場新聞會議 , 我們宣佈我們的意圖要做一台零降落傘 , 給他25秒 。
and if it went really well , we might do three parabolas .	如果真的成功了 , 我們可能會做三個拋物面鏡 。
well , we asked him why he wanted to go up and do this .	我們問他為什麼要上去做這件事 。
and what he said , for me , was very moving .	他對我說的 , 是非常動人的 。
he said , " life on earth is at an everincreasing risk of being wiped out by disaster . . .	他說: 「 地球上的生命是越來越多的風險 , 被災難嚇壞了......
i think the human race doesn't have a future if it doesn't go into space .	我認為如果人類沒有進入太空 , 人類就沒有未來 。
i therefore want to encourage public interest in space . "	所以我想鼓勵大眾對太空的興趣 。 」
we took him out to the kennedy space center , up inside the nasa vehicle , into the back of the zerog airplane .	我們把他帶到甘迺迪太空中心 , 在太空總署的車中 , 回到零飛機的後方 。
we had about 20 people who made donations we raised $150 , 000 in donations for children's charities who flew with us .	我們有大約20個人捐款 , 我們養育了15萬美金的捐款給兒童慈善機構的捐款 。
a few tedsters here .	這裡有幾個tedster 。
we set up a whole er .	我們成立了一整個er 。
we had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane .	我們有四個急診室醫生 , 兩位護士在飛機上 。
we were monitoring his po2 of his blood , his heart rate , his blood pressure .	我們在監視他的血液、他的心跳、他的血壓 。
we had everything all set in case of an emergency ; god knows , you don't want to hurt this worldrenowned expert .	我們所有的事都設定在緊急情況下 , 上帝知道 , 你不想傷害這個世界知名的專家 。
we took off from the shuttle landing facility , where the shuttle takes off and lands .	我們從太空梭降落設施下降 , 在那裡 , 太空梭會起飛和降落 。
and my partner byron lichtenberg and i carefully suspended him into zerog .	我和我的合作夥伴艾倫•lichtenberg和我小心地將他暫停為零 。
once he was there , [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like .	一旦他到那裡 , 讓他去體驗無重力是什麼樣子 。
and after that first parabola , you know , the doc said everything is great . he was smiling , and we said go .	在第一台拋物面鏡之後 , 醫生說一切都很棒 。 他在微笑 , 我們說: 「 走吧 。 」
so we did a second parabola .	所以我們做了第二個拋物面鏡 。
we actually floated an apple in homage to sir isaac newton because professor hawking holds the same chair at cambridge that isaac newton did .	實際上 , 我們把一個蘋果浮在牛頓 , 因為霍金教授在劍橋的劍橋舉辦同樣的椅子 。
and we did a fourth , and a fifth and a sixth .	我們做了第四個 , 第五個和第六個 。
and a seventh and an eighth .	第七個和第八個 。
and this man does not look like a 65yearold wheelchairbound man .	這位男士看起來不像65歲的輪椅男子 。
he was so happy .	他很開心 。
we are living on a precious jewel , and it's during our lifetime that we're moving off this planet .	我們生活在一個珍貴的珠寶上 , 在我們一生中 , 我們要離開這個星球 。
please join us in this epic adventure .	請加入我們史詩般的冒險 。
medical animator david bolinsky presents 3 minutes of stunning animation that show the bustling life inside a cell .	醫學動畫師大衛•布林斯基現在有3分鐘驚人的動畫 , 顯示細胞內的破裂生命 。
design , entertainment , film , health , medicine , science , technology , visualizations	設計、娛樂、電影、健康、醫學、科學、科技、視覺化化、視覺化 。
david bolinsky animates a cell	大衛•布林斯基將細胞動畫成細胞 。
i'm a medical illustrator , and i come from a slightly different point of view .	我是醫學插圖師 , 我來自一個稍微不同的觀點 。
i've been watching , since i grew up , the expressions of truth and beauty in the arts and truth and beauty in the sciences .	自從我長大以來 , 我一直在看 , 藝術和真理和美的表情 , 以及科學中的美 。
and while these are both wonderful things in their own right they both have very wonderful things going for them truth and beauty as ideals that can be looked at by the sciences and by math are almost like the ideal conjoined twins that a scientist would want to date .	雖然這兩者都屬於他們自己的權利 , 他們都有非常美妙的事物 , 讓他們成為理想和美麗的理想 , 可以被科學和數學視為理想的雙胞胎 , 幾乎就像是科學家想約會的理想結合 。
these are expressions of truth as awefull things , by meaning they are things you can worship .	這些是真相的表達方式 , 意思是 , 它們是你可以崇拜的事物 。
they are ideals that are powerful . they are irreducible .	它們是強大的理想 。 它們是不可思議的 。
they are unique . they are useful sometimes , often a long time after the fact .	它們是獨一無二的 , 有時它們是有用的 , 通常在事實發生之後很長一段時間 。
and you can actually roll some of the pictures now , because i don't want to look at me on the screen .	你們現在可以滾動一些照片 , 因為我不想在螢幕上看著我 。
truth and beauty are things that are often opaque to people who are not in the sciences .	真相和美 , 通常對不上科學的人來說是不相同的 。
they are things that describe beauty in a way that is often only accessible if you understand the language and the syntax of the person who studies the subject in which truth and beauty is expressed .	它們是描述美好的方式 , 通常只有當你了解語言和研究真相和美的對象 , 才會被表達 。
if you look at the math , e=mc squared , if you look at the cosmological constant , where there's an anthropic ideal , where you see that life had to evolve from the numbers that describe the universe these are things that are really difficult to understand .	如果你看數學 , e=mc平方 , 如果你看宇宙的常數 , 你會發現生命必須從描述宇宙的數字來演化 , 這些都是很難理解的 。
and what i've tried to do since i had my training as a medical illustrator since i was taught animation by my father , who was a sculptor and my visual mentor i wanted to figure out a way to help people understand truth and beauty in the biological sciences by using animation , by using pictures , by telling stories so that the things that are not necessarily evident to people can be brought forth , and can be taught , and can be understood .	自從我當醫學插畫師之後 , 我嘗試做的事 , 自從我父親被教導 , 他是雕塑家 , 以及我的視覺導師 , 我想要找出一種方法 , 協助人們了解生物科學的真理和美 , 藉由動畫 , 透過動畫 , 說故事 , 讓那些不見得見得見的東西 , 人們可以被帶走 , 可以被教導 , 並且可以被理解 。
students today are often immersed in an environment where what they learn is subjects that have truth and beauty embedded in them , but the way they're taught is compartmentalized and it's drawn down to the point where the truth and beauty are not always evident .	現今 , 學生通常會沉浸在一個環境中 , 在那裡 , 他們學到的是有真和美的主題 , 但他們被教導的方式是比較化的 , 且它會被吸引到 , 真相和美不見得見 。
it's almost like that old recipe for chicken soup where you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone .	這就像是雞湯的舊食譜 , 用來煮雞肉 , 直到口味消失 。
we don't want to do that to our students .	我們不想對學生這樣做 。
so we have an opportunity to really open up education .	所以我們有機會真正開放教育 。
and i had a telephone call from robert lue at harvard , in the molecular and cellular biology department , a couple of years ago . he asked me if my team and i would be interested and willing to really change how medical and scientific education is done at harvard .	我接到哈佛大學羅伯特•路德的電話 , 在分子和細胞生物學系中 , 幾年前 。 他問我我的團隊是否有興趣 , 願意真正改變哈佛的醫學和科學教育是如何運作的 。
so we embarked on a project that would explore the cell that would explore the truth and beauty inherent in molecular and cellular biology so that students could understand a larger picture that they could hang all of these facts on .	所以 , 我們開始進行一項計畫 , 探索細胞在分子和細胞生物學中的真相和美麗 , 讓學生能了解它們能懸掛這些事實的大圖片 。
they could have a mental image of the cell as a large , bustling , hugely complicated city that's occupied by micromachines .	細胞的心智圖像可能是一座大型、很忙碌、非常複雜的城市 , 被微機械所佔據 。
and these micromachines really are at the heart of life .	這些微機械真的在生命的核心 。
these micromachines , which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over , are selfdirected , powerful , precise , accurate devices that are made out of strings of amino acids .	這些微機械 , 世界各地都是奈米科技專家自主導、強大、精確、精確、精確、精確的裝置 , 由胺基酸所組成 。
and these micromachines power how a cell moves .	這些微機械的力量是細胞移動的 。
they power how a cell replicates . they power our hearts .	它們賦予細胞如何複製 。 它們賦予我們的心 。
they power our minds .	它們驅動我們的心智 。
and so what we wanted to do was to figure out how we could make this story into an animation that would be the centerpiece of biovisions at harvard , which is a website that harvard has for its molecular and cellular biology students that will in addition to all the textual information , in addition to all the didactic stuff put everything together visually , so that these students would have an internalized view of what a cell really is in all of its truth and beauty , and be able to study with this view in mind , so that their imaginations would be sparked , so that their passions would be sparked and so that they would be able to go on and use these visions in their head to make new discoveries and to be able to find out , really , how life works .	所以 , 我們想要做的是 , 我們要如何把這個故事變成動畫 , 讓它成為哈佛生物設計中心的動畫 , 它是一個哈佛對它的分子和細胞生物學的網站 , 除了所有的文字信息 , 除了所有修飾的東西 , 視覺上來說 , 這些學生對於細胞的真實和美麗的看法 , 能夠研究它們的想像力 , 以此類推 , 使它們能夠發現它們能夠發現它們如何運作 。
so we set out by looking at how these molecules are put together .	所以我們開始研究這些分子是如何組合在一起的 。
we worked with a theme , which is , you've got macrophages that are streaming down a capillary , and they're touching the surface of the capillary wall , and they're picking up information from cells that are on the capillary wall , and they are given this information that there's an inflammation somewhere outside , where they can't see and sense .	我們和一個主題合作 , 也就是說 , 你有大腸桿菌 , 它們會碰到毛細菌的表面 , 它們會接觸到毛細菌牆上的細胞 , 它們會從毛細牆上的細胞取得資訊 , 它們提供了這些資訊 , 以外的地方有發炎 , 它們看不見和感知 。
but they get the information that causes them to stop , causes them to internalize that they need to make all of the various parts that will cause them to change their shape , and try to get out of this capillary and find out what's going on .	但它們會得到阻止的資訊 , 使它們內化 , 使它們能夠製造出各式各樣的部分 , 讓它們改變它們的形狀 , 試著脫離這個毛細管 , 找出發生了什麼事 。
so these molecular motors we had to work with the harvard scientists and databank models of the atomically accurate molecules and figure out how they moved , and figure out what they did .	所以這些分子馬達我們必須和哈佛科學家及資料庫的模型合作 , 找出它們的移動方式 , 找出它們的做法 。
and figure out how to do this in a way that was truthful in that it imparted what was going on , but not so truthful that the compact crowding in a cell would prevent the vista from happening .	想出如何用真誠的方式來做這件事 , 讓它暗示發生了什麼事 , 但事實並非如此 , 細胞內的聯繫會阻止維斯塔發生 。
and so what i'm going to show you is a threeminute reader's digest version of the first aspect of this film that we produced . it's an ongoing project that's going to go another four or five years .	接下來我要給你們看的是一個三分鐘讀者的消化版本 , 是我們製作的這部影片的第一個面向 。 這是一個持續進行的計畫 , 將會再四到五年 。
and i want you to look at this and see the paths that the cell manufactures these little walking machines , they're called kinesins that take these huge loads that would challenge an ant in relative size .	請各位看看這個 , 看看細胞製造這些小步行機器的路徑 , 它們被稱作 「 脊椎 」 , 負重大負荷 , 以相對大小來挑戰螞蟻的大小 。
run the movie , please .	請播放這部電影 。
but these machines that power the inside of the cells are really quite amazing , and they really are the basis of all life because all of these machines interact with each other .	但這些機器在細胞內部發電相當驚人 , 它們真的是所有生命的基礎 , 因為這些機器彼此互動 。
they pass information to each other .	他們互相傳遞資訊 。
they cause different things to happen inside the cell .	它們會造成細胞內不同的事情發生 。
and the cell will actually manufacture the parts that it needs on the fly , from information that's brought from the nucleus by molecules that read the genes .	細胞會製造出果蠅所需的零件 , 透過讀取基因的分子所得到的資訊 。
no life , from the smallest life to everybody here , would be possible without these little micromachines .	沒有生命 , 從最小的生命到這裡的每一個人 , 沒有這些微機械 。
in fact , it would really , in the absence of these machines , have made the attendance here , chris , really quite sparse .	事實上 , 沒有這些機器 , 在這裡 , 克里斯 , 真的會非常稀少 。
this is the fedex delivery guy of the cell .	這是細胞的fedex輸送夥伴 。
this little guy is called the kinesin , and he pulls a sack that's full of brand new manufactured proteins to wherever it's needed in the cell whether it's to a membrane , whether it's to an organelle , whether it's to build something or repair something .	這個小傢伙被稱為 「 柯因斯汀 」 , 他拉著一堆全新的製造蛋白質 , 到細胞需要的位置 , 不管是細胞膜 , 不管是器官 , 不管是建造東西或修復東西 。
and each of us has about 100 , 000 of these things running around , right now , inside each one of your 100 trillion cells .	我們每一個人都有大約十萬個這些東西跑來跑去 , 現在 , 每一百兆個細胞 。
so no matter how lazy you feel , you're not really intrinsically doing nothing .	所以 , 不論你有多懶惰 , 你根本不做任何事 。
so what i want you to do when you go home is think about this , and think about how powerful our cells are .	所以 , 當你回家時 , 我希望你們想想這一點 , 想想我們的細胞有多強大 。
and think about some of the things that we're learning about cellular mechanics .	想想我們正在學習細胞機械的一些東西 。
once we figure out all that's going on and believe me , we know almost a percent of what's going on once we figure out what's going on , we're really going to be able to have a lot of control over what we do with our health , with what we do with future generations , and how long we're going to live .	一旦我們想出了一切 , 相信我 , 我們幾乎知道發生了什麼事 , 一旦我們搞清楚發生了什麼事 , 我們就真的能夠掌控我們對我們的健康、未來的世代所做的事 , 以及我們將要活多久 。
and hopefully we'll be able to use this to discover more truth , and more beauty .	希望我們能用它來發現更多的真相 , 更美麗 。
but it's really quite amazing that these cells , these micromachines , are aware enough of what the cell needs that they do their bidding .	但很驚人的是 , 這些細胞 , 這些微機械 , 已經知道它們所需要的細胞需要的足夠 。
they work together . they make the cell do what it needs to do .	他們一起工作 , 讓細胞做它需要做的事 。
and their working together helps our bodies huge entities that they will never see function properly .	他們一起工作 , 協助我們身體的巨大實體 , 它們永遠不會看到適當的功能 。
enjoy the rest of the show . thank you .	享受剩下的節目 。 謝謝 。
becky blanton planned to live in her van for a year and see the country , but when depression set in and her freelance job ended , her camping trip turned into homelessness . in this intimate talk , she describes her experience of becoming one of america's working homeless .	貝琪•布蘭頓計畫要住在她的車裡一年 , 去看這個國家 , 但當憂鬱和她的自由工作結束時 , 她的營地變成了無家可歸的旅程 。 在這個親密的演講中 , 她描述她成為美國工作無家可歸的體驗 。
adventure , happiness , life , personal growth , poverty , social change , society , storytelling	冒險、快樂、生活、個人成長、貧窮、社會變遷、社會、說故事說故事、說故事、說故事、說故事 。
becky blanton: the year i was homeless	貝琪•布蘭頓:那一年我無家可歸 , 無家可歸 。
i'm a writer and a journalist , and i'm also an insanely curious person , so in 22 years as a journalist , i've learned how to do a lot of new things .	我是作家和記者 , 我也是個瘋狂的好奇人 , 所以當記者22年 , 我學會了如何做很多新事 。
and three years ago , one of the things i learned how to do was to become invisible .	三年前 , 我學到的其中一件事就是成為隱形人 。
i became one of the working homeless .	我成了無家可歸的無家可歸者 。
i quit my job as a newspaper editor after my father died in february of that same year , and decided to travel .	我辭去了報紙編輯的工作 , 在我父親在同一年二月去世之後 , 決定要旅行 。
his death hit me pretty hard .	他的死亡讓我非常難受 。
and there were a lot of things that i wanted to feel and deal with while i was doing that .	在我這麼做的時候 , 我有很多想感受和處理的事情 。
i've camped my whole life . and i decided that living in a van for a year to do this would be like one long camping trip .	我一生都在幫我營運 。 我決定 , 住在一輛車裡 , 住了一趟漫長的營地旅行 。
so i packed my cat , my rottweiler and my camping gear into a 1975 chevy van , and drove off into the sunset , having fully failed to realize three critical things .	所以我打包了我的貓 , 我的rotweiler和我的營運設備 , 進入1975年的清潔車 , 開車到日落 , 完全沒有意識到三件重要的事 。
one: that society equates living in a permanent structure , even a shack , with having value as a person .	第一:社會等於生活在一個永久的結構 , 甚至是一塊垃圾 , 身為一個人 , 擁有價值 。
two: i failed to realize how quickly the negative perceptions of other people can impact our reality , if we let it .	第二:我沒意識到 , 其他人的負面感知有多快 , 會影響我們的現實 , 如果我們放下它 。
three: i failed to realize that homelessness is an attitude , not a lifestyle .	第三:我沒有意識到 , 無家可歸是一種態度 , 而不是生活方式 。
at first , living in the van was great .	一開始 , 住在車內是很棒的 。
i showered in campgrounds . i ate out regularly .	我在營地上洗澡 。 我常常吃東西 。
and i had time to relax and to grieve .	我有時間放鬆和悲慟 。
but then the anger and the depression about my father's death set in .	但接著 , 我父親的死亡和憂鬱症發生了 。
my freelance job ended . and i had to get a fulltime job to pay the bills .	我的自由工作結束了 。 我必須有全職的工作來支付帳單 。
what had been a really mild spring turned into a miserably hot summer .	一個非常溫和的春天變成一個悲慘的夏天 。
and it became impossible to park anywhere without being very obvious that i had a cat and a dog with me , and it was really hot .	到哪裡都沒有明顯的公園 , 我有一隻貓和一隻狗 , 牠真的很熱 。
the cat came and went through an open window in the van .	貓來了 , 在車上開了一扇通窗 。
the doggy went into doggy day care .	小狗就照顧了 。
whenever i could , i used employee showers in office buildings and truck stops .	不論何時 , 我都會用辦公大樓和卡車停下來的員工洗澡 。
or i washed up in public rest rooms .	或者 , 我在公共場所清洗 。
nighttime temperatures in the van rarely dropped below 80 degrees fahrenheit , making it difficult or impossible to sleep .	夜間車廂的溫度很少在華氏80度下降 , 讓它很難睡 。
food rotted in the heat .	食物在熱中腐爛 。
ice in my ice chest melted within hours , and it was pretty miserable .	冰裡的冰會在幾小時內融化 , 非常悲慘 。
i couldn't afford to find an apartment , or couldn't afford an apartment that would allow me to have the rottweiler and the cat .	我找不到一間公寓 , 或者負擔不起公寓 , 允許我有rotweiler和貓 。
and i refused to give them up , so i stayed in the van .	我拒絕放棄 , 所以我留在車裡 。
and when the heat made me too sick to walk the 50 feet to the public restroom outside my van at night , i used a bucket and a trash bag as a toilet .	當熱使我太生病了 , 去走50英尺的公共廁所 , 晚上我用桶子和垃圾袋當廁所 。
when winter weather set in , the temperatures dropped below freezing . and they stayed there .	當冬天進來時 , 溫度降低在冰凍之下 , 它們就在那裡 。
and i faced a whole new set of challenges .	我面對了一套全新的挑戰 。
i parked a different place every night so i would avoid being noticed and hassled by the police .	我每天晚上停下一個地方 , 讓我避免被警察察察逮捕 , 被逮捕 。
i didn't always succeed .	我並不總是成功 。
but i felt out of control of my life .	但我覺得我無法掌控我的人生 。
and i don't know when or how it happened , but the speed at which i went from being a talented writer and journalist to being a homeless woman , living in a van , took my breath away .	我不知道何時會發生什麼事 , 但我從一個有才華的作家和記者 , 變成一個無家可歸的女人 , 帶著我的呼吸 。
i hadn't changed . my i . q . hadn't dropped .	我還沒改變 , 我的智商並沒有下降 。
my talent , my integrity , my values , everything about me remained the same .	我的才華 , 我的正直 , 我的價值觀 , 所有關於我的事都一樣 。
but i had changed somehow .	但我不知怎地改變了 。
i spiraled deeper and deeper into a depression .	我更深入地陷入憂鬱 。
and eventually someone referred me to a homeless health clinic .	最後有人把我稱為無家可歸的健康診所 。
and i went . i hadn't bathed in three days .	我去了 。 我三天沒洗澡 。
i was as smelly and as depressed as anyone in line .	我像排隊中的任何人一樣 , 感到沮喪 。
i just wasn't drunk or high .	我只是不喝醉或高水 。
and when several of the homeless men realized that , including a former university professor , they said , " you aren't homeless . why are you really here ? "	當數位無家可歸的男子意識到 , 包括前一名大學教授 , 他們說: 「 你不是無家可歸的 。 為什麼你真的在這裡 ? 」
other homeless people didn't see me as homeless , but i did .	其他無家可歸的人並沒有把我視為無家可歸的人 , 但我確實這麼做了 。
then the professor listened to my story and he said , " you have a job . you have hope .	接著 , 教授聽我的故事 , 他說: 「 你有工作 , 你有希望 。
the real homeless don't have hope . "	真正的無家可歸者沒有希望 。 」
a reaction to the medication the clinic gave me for my depression left me suicidal . and i remember thinking , " if i killed myself , no one would notice . "	診所給我的憂鬱症的反應 , 讓我自殺了 。 我記得當時在想: 「 如果我殺了我自己 , 沒有人會注意到 。 」
a friend told me , shortly after that , that she had heard that tim russert , a nationally renowned journalist , had been talking about me on national t . v .	不久後 , 一位朋友告訴我 , 她聽說提姆•魯斯特 , 一個全國知名的記者 , 一直在談論我在國家電視台上 。
an essay i'd written about my father , the year before he died , was in tim's new book .	我寫了一篇關於我父親的文章 , 在他死前的那一年 , 提姆的新書 。
and he was doing the talk show circuit . and he was talking about my writing .	他正在做這場演說電路 。 他在談我的寫作 。
and when i realized that tim russert , former moderator of " meet the press , " was talking about my writing , while i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , i started laughing .	當我意識到timrusssert , 《會見新聞》的前主持人談到我的寫作 , 當我住在華爾瑪停車場時 , 我開始笑 。
i started laughing because it got to the point where , was i a writer , or was i a homeless woman ?	我開始笑是因為我是作家還是無家可歸的女人 ?
so i went in the bookstore . and i found tim's book .	我走進書店 , 找到提姆的書 。
and i stood there . and i reread my essay .	我站在那裡 , 我重寫我的論文 。
because i was a writer .	因為我是作家 。
i was a writer .	我是作家 。
shortly after that i moved back to tennessee .	不久後我搬回田納西 。
i alternated between living in a van and couch surfing with friends .	我和朋友住在車內和沙發衝浪的沙發中間 。
and i started writing again .	我又開始寫作了 。
by the summer of the following year i was a working journalist .	隔年夏天 , 我是個工作記者 。
i was winning awards . i was living in my own apartment .	我在贏得獎項 。 我住在我自己的公寓裡 。
i was no longer homeless .	我不再無家可歸 。
and i was no longer invisible .	我不再隱形了 。
thousands of people work full and parttime jobs , and live in their cars .	數以千計的人全職工作 , 生活在他們的車裡 。
but society continues to stigmatize and criminalize living in your vehicle or on the streets .	但社會持續汙名化 , 將生活在車上或街道上的罪犯化 。
so the homeless , the working homeless , primarily remain invisible .	所以 , 無家可歸的無家可歸 , 主要是隱形 。
but if you ever meet one , engage them , encourage them , and offer them hope .	但如果你遇過一個 , 參與他們 , 鼓勵他們 , 提供他們希望 。
the human spirit can overcome anything if it has hope .	人類的精神若有希望 , 能克服任何事情 。
and i'm not here to be the poster girl for the homeless .	我不是來這裡成為無家可歸的海報 。
i'm not here to encourage you to give money to the next panhandler you meet .	我不是要鼓勵你們把錢給下一個乞討者 。
but i am here to tell you that , based on my experience , people are not where they live , where they sleep , or what their life situation is at any given time .	但我在這裡要告訴各位 , 根據我的經驗 , 人們不住在他們住的地方 , 他們睡在哪裡 , 或是他們任何時間的狀況 。
three years ago i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , and today i'm speaking at ted .	三年前 , 我住在華爾瑪停車場 , 今天我在ted演講 。
hope always , always finds a way . thank you .	希望永遠都會找到方法 。 謝謝 。
at tedxchange , thailand's " mr . condom , " mechai viravaidya , walks us through the country's bold plan to raise its standard of living , starting in the 1970s . first step: population control . and that means a lot of frank , funny and very effective talk about condoms .	在tedxchange , 泰國的 「 保險套先生 」 , mechaiviraida , 走過全國的大膽計劃 , 提高生活的標準 , 從1970年代開始 。 第一步:人口控制 。 這意味著許多富蘭克 , 非常有趣且有效的談到保險套 。
culture , global issues , health , population , science	文化、全球議題、健康、人口、科學、科學、科學、科學等 。
mechai viravaidya: how mr . condom made thailand a better place	墨西維拉瓦迪亞:保險套如何讓泰國變得更好 , 更好的地方 。
now , when i was a young man 40 years ago , the country was very , very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty .	四十年前 , 當我還是個年輕人的時候 , 這個國家非常非常貧窮 , 有許多人住在貧窮 。
we decided to do something about it , but we didn't begin with a welfare program or a poverty reduction program .	我們決定做點什麼 , 但我們並沒有從福利計畫開始 , 或減少貧窮計畫 。
but we began with a familyplanning program , following a very successful maternal child health activity , sets of activities .	但我們從家庭平台開始 , 遵循非常成功的孕產兒健康活動 , 一組活動 。
so basically , no one would accept family planning if their children didn't survive .	基本上 , 如果孩子不存活 , 沒有人會接受家庭規劃 。
so the first step: get to the children , get to the mothers , and then follow up with family planning .	第一步:到孩子那裡 , 去找媽媽 , 然後跟隨家庭規劃 。
not just child mortality alone , you need also family planning .	不僅僅是孩童死亡率 , 你還需要家庭規劃 。
now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it .	現在 , 讓我帶大家回到為什麼我們需要這麼做 。
in my country , that was the case in 1974 .	在我的國家 , 那是1974年的案例 。
seven children per family tremendous growth at 3 . 3 percent .	每個家庭的七個孩子 , 成長率高達3.3% 。
there was just no future .	沒有未來 。
we needed to reduce the population growth rate .	我們需要降低人口成長率 。
so we said , " let's do it . "	所以我們說: 「 我們來做吧 。 」
the women said , " we agree . we'll use pills , but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills , " and we had very , very few doctors .	女性說: 「 我們同意 , 我們會用藥 , 但我們需要醫生來開藥 。 」 我們有非常非常少的醫生 。
we didn't take no as an answer ; we took no as a question .	我們不接受答案 ; 我們不用當作一個問題 。
we went to the nurses and the midwives , who were also women , and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill .	我們去了護士和中產婦 , 她們也是女性 , 在解釋如何使用藥丸時 , 做了一個很棒的工作 。
that was wonderful , but it covered only 20 percent of the country .	這很棒 , 但只佔全國的20% 。
what do we do for the other 80 percent leave them alone and say , " well , they're not medical personnel . "	我們為其他百分之八十的人做些什麼 , 並說: 「 嗯 , 他們不是醫務人員 。 」
no , we decided to do a bit more .	不 , 我們決定多做一點 。
so we went to the ordinary people that you saw .	所以我們去找你看到的一般人 。
actually , below that yellow sign i wish they hadn't wiped that , because there was " cocacola " there .	實際上 , 在那黃色標誌下 , 我希望他們還沒有這麼做 , 因為那裡有 「 可口可樂 」 。
we were so much bigger than cocacola in those days .	當時我們比可口可樂大很多 。
and no difference , the people they chose were the people we chose .	沒什麼差別 , 他們選的就是我們選的人 。
they were wellknown in the community , they knew that customers were always right , and they were terrific , and they practiced their family planning themselves .	他們在社區中很著名 , 他們知道客戶總是對的 , 他們很棒 , 他們也很棒 , 他們練習了他們的家庭規劃 。
so they could supply pills and condoms throughout the country , in every village of the country .	所以他們可以在全國各地提供藥丸和保險套 。
so there we are . we went to the people who were seen as the cause of the problem to be the solution .	所以 , 我們就在那裡 。 我們去找那些被視為問題的起因 。
wherever there were people and you can see boats with the women , selling things here's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives wherever you find people , you'll find contraceptives in thailand .	不論在哪裡有人 , 你都可以看到船上有女性 , 賣東西是漂浮市場 , 賣香蕉和螃蟹 , 不論你在哪裡找到人 , 你都會在泰國找到避孕工具 。
and then we decided , why not get to religion because in the philippines , the catholic church was pretty strong , and thai people were buddhist .	然後我們決定 , 為什麼不上宗教 , 因為在菲律賓 , 天主教會很強壯 , 泰國人是佛教徒 。
we went to them and they said , " look , could you help us ? "	我們去找他們 , 他們說: 「 你能幫我們嗎 ? 」
i'm there the one in blue , not the yellow holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to sprinkle holy water on pills and condoms for the sanctity of the family .	我在那裡是藍色的 , 不是黃色的 , 拿著一碗聖水 , 讓僧侶能在藥丸和保險套上灑水 。
and this picture was sent throughout the country .	這張照片遍佈全國 。
so some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves .	村落裡的一些僧侶正在做同樣的事 。
and the women were saying , " no wonder we have no sideeffects .	女人說: 「 難怪我們沒有副作用 。
it's been blessed . "	它被祝福了 。 」
that was their perception .	那是他們的感知 。
and then we went to teachers .	然後我們去找老師 。
you need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place .	你需要每一個人試著提供任何東西讓人類成為一個更好的地方 。
so we went to the teachers .	所以我們去找老師 。
over a quarter of a million were taught about family planning with a new alphabet a , b for birth , c for condom , i for iud , v for vasectomy .	超過25萬人被教導要用一個新的字母a、b出生、保險套、iud、v等級 。
and then we had a snakes and ladders game , where you throw dice .	然後我們有一場蛇和雷射遊戲 , 你丟了骰子 。
if you land on anything profamily planning , you move ahead .	如果你登陸任何熟悉的規劃 , 你就向前移動 。
like , " mother takes the pill every night .	比如: 「 媽媽每天晚上吃藥 。
very good , mother . move ahead .	非常好 , 媽媽 , 向前走 。
uncle buys a condom . very good , uncle . move ahead .	叔叔買保險套 , 非常好 , 叔叔 。 向前走 。
uncle gets drunk , doesn't use condom . come back , start again . "	叔叔喝醉 , 不用保險套 。 回來 , 再來一次 。 」
again , education , class entertainment .	同樣的 , 教育、娛樂 。
and the kids were doing it in school too .	孩子們也在學校做這件事 。
we had relay races with condoms , we had children's condomblowing championship .	我們和保險套有相關的種族 , 我們有孩子的保險會冠軍 。
and before long , the condom was know as the girl's best friend .	不久前 , 保險套被稱為女孩最好的朋友 。
in thailand , for poor people , diamonds don't make it so the condom is the girl's best friend .	在泰國 , 對窮人來說 , 鑽石不會製造 , 所以保險套是女孩最好的朋友 。
we introduced our first microcredit program in 1975 , and the women who organized it said , " we only want to lend to women who practice family planning .	我們在1975年推出了第一項微型貸款計畫 , 組織它的女性說: 「 我們只想借用那些實踐家庭規劃的女性 。
if you're pregnant , take care of your pregnancy .	如果你懷孕了 , 照顧你的懷孕 。
if you're not pregnant , you can take a loan out from us . "	如果你不懷孕 , 你可以從我們身上拿出一筆貸款 。 」
and that was run by them .	那是他們經營的 。
and after 35/36 years , it's still going on .	經過35/36年 , 它仍然持續下去 。
it's a part of the village development bank ; it's not a real bank , but it's a fund microcredit .	它是村落發展銀行的一部分 ; 它不是真的銀行 , 而是基金 。
and we didn't need a big organization to run it it was run by the villagers themselves .	我們不需要一個大型組織來執行它 , 由村民自己運作 。
and you probably hardly see a thai man there , it's always women , women , women , women .	你可能幾乎看不到泰國男子 , 總是女性、女人、女人 。
and then we thought we'd help america , because america's been helping everyone , whether they want help or not .	然後我們以為我們會幫助美國 , 因為美國一直在幫助所有人 , 不論他們是否想要幫忙 。
and this is on the fourth of july .	這是七月四日 。
we decided to provide vasectomy to all men , but in particular , american men to the front of the queue , right up to the ambassador's residence during his [unclear] .	我們決定為所有男人提供廣闊的電力 , 但特別是 , 美國人在排隊前面 , 直接到大使大使館的居民 。
and the hotel gave us the ballroom for it very appropriate room .	旅館給了我們一個球場 , 給了我們一個非常適合的房間 。
and since it was near lunch time , they said , " all right , we'll give you some lunch .	他們說: 「 好吧 , 我們會給你午餐時間 。
of course , it must be american cola .	當然 , 這一定是美國的可口可樂 。
you get two brands , coke and pepsi .	你有兩個品牌 , 可口可樂和百事可樂 。
and then the food is either hamburger or hotdog . "	然後食物就是漢堡或熱狗 。 」
and i thought a hotdog will be more symbolic .	我以為熱狗會更具象徵性 。
and here is this , then , young man called willy bohm who worked for the usaid .	這裡是這個 , 年輕人叫威利•博姆 , 他為美國援助工作 。
obviously , he's had his vasectomy because his hotdog is half eaten , and he was very happy .	很顯然 , 他的熱狗吃了一半 , 他很開心 。
it made a lot of news in america , and it angered some people also .	它在美國製造了很多新聞 , 也讓一些人感到憤怒 。
i said , " don't worry . come over and i'll do the whole lot of you . "	我說: 「 別擔心 , 過來 , 我會做你們很多人 。 」
in all this thing , from seven children to 1 . 5 children , population growth rate of 3 . 3 to 0 . 5 .	總而言之 , 從七個孩子到1.5個孩子 , 人口成長率是3.3%到0.5% 。
you could call it the cocacola approach if you like it was exactly the same thing .	你可以稱它為可口可樂的方法如果你喜歡它是完全一樣的
i'm not sure whether cocacola followed us , or we followed cocacola , but we're good friends .	我不確定可口可樂是否跟著我們 , 或跟著可口可樂 , 但我們是好朋友 。
and so that's the case of everyone joining in .	這就是每個人加入的例子 。
we didn't have a strong government . we didn't have lots of doctors .	我們沒有一個強大的政府 , 我們沒有很多醫生 。
but it's everybody's job who can change attitude and behavior .	但每個人都能改變態度和行為 。
then aids came along and hit thailand , and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight aids .	接著 , 愛滋病來到泰國 , 我們必須停止對抗愛滋病 。
but unfortunately , the government was in denial , denial , denial .	但不幸的是 , 政府在否認、否認、否認 。
so our work wasn't affected .	所以我們的工作沒有受到影響 。
so i thought , " well , if you can't go to the government , go to the military . "	所以我想: 「 嗯 , 如果你不能去政府 , 去軍隊 。 」
so i went to the military and asked to borrow 300 radio stations .	所以我去了軍隊 , 要求借了300台無線電站 。
they have more than the government , and they've got more guns than the government .	他們比政府還多 , 他們的槍比政府多 。
so i asked them , could they help us in our fight against hiv .	所以我問他們 , 他們能否協助我們對抗愛滋病毒 。
and after i gave them statistics , they said , " yes . okay . you can use all the radio stations , television stations . "	在我給他們統計數據之後 , 他們說: 「 是的 , 你可以用所有的電台 , 電視站 。 」
and that's when we went onto the airwaves .	那時我們進入了空氣波 。
and then we got a new prime minister soon after that .	接著 , 我們在那之後很快就得到了新的總理 。
and he said , " mechai , could you come and join ? "	他說: 「 米秋 , 你能來加入嗎 ? 」
he asked me in because he liked my wife a lot .	他問我 , 因為他常喜歡我太太 。
so i said , " okay . "	我說: 「 好吧 。 」
he became the chairman of the national aids committee and increased the budget fiftyfold .	他成為國家愛滋病委員會的主席 , 提高預算的五十倍 。
every ministry , even judges , had to be involved in aids education everyone and we said the public , institutions , religious institutions , schools everyone was involved .	每一個部長 , 甚至法官 , 都必須參與愛滋病教育 , 我們說公眾、機構、宗教機構 , 所有人都參與其中 。
and here , every media person had to be trained for hiv .	在這裡 , 每一位媒體人員都必須接受愛滋病的訓練 。
and we gave every station half a minute extra for advertising to earn more money .	我們給每一台五分鐘額外的廣告 , 來賺更多錢 。
so they were happy with that .	所以他們很開心 。
and then aids education in all schools , starting from university .	接著 , 所有學校都有愛滋病教育 , 從大學開始 。
and these are high school kids teaching high school kids .	這些是高中生教高中生 。
and the best teachers were the girls , not the boys , and they were terrific .	最好的老師是女孩 , 不是男孩 , 他們很棒 。
and these girls who go around teaching about safe sex and hiv were known as mother theresa .	這些在教導安全性愛和愛滋病毒的女孩被稱為母親 。
and then we went down one more step .	然後我們再走下一步 。
these are primary school kids third , fourth grade going to every household in the village , every household in the whole of thailand , giving aids information and a condom to every household , given by these young kids .	這些是小學童三年級 , 四年級到村落的每個家庭 , 每個家庭都在泰國 , 提供愛滋病資訊和保險套給每個家庭 , 給這些孩子 。
and no parents objected , because we were trying to save lives , and this was a lifesaver .	沒有家長反對 , 因為我們試圖拯救生命 , 這是個救生者 。
and we said , " everyone needs to be involved . "	我們說: 「 每個人都需要參與 。 」
so you have the companies also realizing that sick staff don't work , and dead customers don't buy .	所以 , 公司也發現生病人員沒用 , 死客戶也不買 。
so they all trained .	他們都受過訓練 。
and then we have this captain condom , with his harvard mba , going to schools and night spots .	然後我們有了這個船長保險套 , 帶著他的哈佛mba , 到學校和夜間 。
and they loved him . you need a symbol of something .	他們很愛他 , 你需要一個符號 。
in every country , every program , you need a symbol , and this is probably the best thing he's ever done with his mba .	在每個國家 , 每個計畫 , 你都需要一個符號 , 這可能是他在mba上做過最好的事 。
and then we gave condoms out everywhere on the streets everywhere , everywhere .	然後我們把保險套放到各地的街道上 , 到處都是 。
in taxis , you get condoms .	在計程車上 , 你會得到保險套 。
and also , in traffic , the policemen give you condoms our " cops and rubbers " programs .	此外 , 在交通上 , 警察會給你保險套 , 我們的 「 警察 」 計畫 。
so , can you imagine new york policemen giving out condoms ?	所以 , 你能想像紐約警察提供保險套嗎 ?
of course i can . and they'd enjoy it immensely ; i see them standing around right now , everywhere .	當然 , 我可以 。 他們會很享受 , 我看到他們現在站在四周 , 到處都是 。
imagine if they had condoms , giving out to all sorts of people .	想像一下 , 如果他們有保險套 , 給各式各樣的人 。
and then , new change , we had hair bands , clothing and the condom for your mobile phone during the rainy season .	接著 , 新的改變 , 我們有髮帶、衣服 , 以及保險套 , 在雨季 , 手機的保險套 。
and these were the condoms that we introduced .	這些是我們介紹的保險套 。
one says , " weapon of mass protection . "	有人說: 「 大規模保護的武器 。 」
we found you know somebody here was searching for the weapon of mass destruction , but we have found the weapon of mass protection: the condom .	我們發現這裡有人在尋找大規模破壞的武器 , 但我們發現了大規模保護的武器:保險套 。
and then it says here , with the american flag , " don't leave home without it . "	接著 , 美國國旗在這裡說: 「 不用回家 。 」
but i have some to give out afterward .	但之後我要放棄 。
but let me warn you , these are thaisized , so be very careful .	但讓我警告各位 , 這些是泰然的 , 所以非常小心 。
and so you can see that condoms can do so many things .	你可以看到保險套可以做這麼多事 。
look at this i gave this to al gore and to bill senior also .	看看這個我給艾爾•高爾和比爾•塞爾也給了這個 。
stop global warming ; use condoms .	停止全球暖化 , 使用保險套 。
and then this is the picture i mentioned to you the weapon of mass protection .	這是我剛剛提到的照片 , 大規模保護的武器 。
and let the next olympics save some lives .	讓下一個奧運拯救一些生命 。
why just run around ?	為什麼會跑來 ?
and then finally , in thailand we're buddhist , we don't have a god , so instead , we say , " in rubber we trust . "	最後 , 在泰國 , 我們是佛教徒 , 我們沒有神 , 所以我們說: 「 我們相信橡膠 。 」
so you can see that we added everything to our endeavor to make life better for the people .	所以你可以看到 , 我們把所有的東西都加到我們的努力 , 讓人們的生活變得更好 。
we had condoms in all the refrigerators in the hotels and the schools , because alcohol impairs judgment .	我們在旅館和學校裡有保險套 , 因為酒精會損壞評斷 。
and then what happened ?	然後發生了什麼事 ?
after all this time , everybody joined in .	一直以來 , 每個人都加入了 。
according to the u . n . , new cases of hiv declined by 90 percent , and according to the world bank , 7 . 7 million lives were saved .	根據聯合國愛滋病的新案例減少了90% , 根據世界銀行 , 770萬條生命被拯救 。
otherwise there wouldn't be many thais walking around today .	否則 , 今天的泰國不會有很多 。
so it just showed you , you could do something about it .	它剛剛給你看 , 你可以為它做點什麼 。
90 percent of the funding came from thailand .	90%的資金來自泰國 。
there was political commitment , some financial commitment , and everybody joined in the fight .	有政治承諾、金融承諾 , 每個人都加入了戰爭 。
so just don't leave it to the specialists and doctors and nurses .	所以不要把它留給專家、醫生和護士 。
we all need to help .	我們都需要幫助 。
and then we decided to help people out of poverty , now that we got aids somewhat out of the way this time , not with government alone , but in cooperation with the business community .	接著 , 我們決定要幫助人們脫離貧窮 , 現在我們有愛滋病 , 這次不是只有政府 , 而是和商業界合作 。
because poor people are business people who lack business skills and access to credit .	因為窮人是商人 , 他們缺乏商業技能和取得功勞 。
those are the things to be provided by the business community .	這些都是商業界所提供的 。
we're trying to turn them into barefoot entrepreneurs , little business people .	我們試著把他們變成赤腳企業家 , 小商人 。
the only way out of poverty is through business enterprise .	脫貧的唯一方法是透過企業企業 。
so , that was done .	所以 , 完成了 。
the money goes from the company into the village via treeplanting .	錢來自公司 , 變成村莊的移植 。
it's not a free gift .	這不是免費禮物 。
they plant the trees , and the money goes into their microcredit fund , which we call the village development bank .	他們種植樹木 , 金錢會進入他們的微信貸基金 , 我們稱之為村落發展銀行 。
everybody joins in , and they feel they own the bank , because they have brought the money in .	每個人都加入 , 他們覺得自己擁有銀行 , 因為他們把錢帶進來 。
and before you can borrow the money , you need to be trained .	在你借錢之前 , 你需要被訓練 。
and we believe if you want to help the poor , those who are living in poverty , access to credit must be a human right .	我們相信 , 如果你想幫助窮人 , 住在貧窮的人 , 信用肯定是人權 。
access to credit must be a human right .	信用法一定是人權 。
otherwise they'll never get out of poverty .	否則他們永遠不會脫離貧窮 。
and then before getting a loan , you must be trained .	在取得貸款之前 , 你一定要被訓練 。
here's what we call a " barefoot mba , " teaching people how to do business so that , when they borrow money , they'll succeed with the business .	我們稱之為 「 赤腳mba 」 , 教導人們如何做生意 , 這樣一來 , 當他們借錢時 , 他們就成功了 。
these are some of the businesses: mushrooms , crabs , vegetables , trees , fruits , and this is very interesting nike ice cream and nike biscuits ; this is a village sponsored by nike .	這些是一些商業:蘑菇、螃蟹、蔬菜、樹木、水果 , 這非常有意思 , nike冰淇淋和nikebakit ; 這是一個由nike贊助的村落 。
they said , " they should stop making shoes and clothes .	他們說: 「 他們應該停止做鞋子和衣服 。
make these better , because we can afford them . "	做得更好 , 因為我們能負擔得起 。 」
and then we have silk , thai silk .	然後我們有絲 , 泰國絲 。
now we're making scottish tartans , as you can see on the left , to sell to all people of scottish ancestors .	現在我們正在做蘇格蘭塔坦 , 如你們所見 , 賣給所有蘇格蘭的祖先 。
so anyone sitting in and watching tv , get in touch with me .	任何坐著看電視的人都會跟我聯絡 。
and then this is our answer to starbucks in thailand " coffee and condoms . "	這是我們在泰國的星巴克的答案 「 咖啡和保險套 」 。
see , starbucks you awake , we keep you awake and alive .	你看 , 星巴克醒你 , 我們讓你醒著 , 活著 。
can you imagine , at every starbucks that you can also get condoms ?	你能想像 , 在每個星巴克中 , 你也可以得到保險套嗎 ?
you can order your condoms with your with your cappuccino .	你可以用你的保險套來訂購你的保險套 。
and then now , finally in education , we want to change the school as being underutilized into a place where it's a lifelong learning center for everyone .	現在 , 終於在教育上 , 我們希望改變學校 , 成為一個讓每個人終身學習中心的地方 。
we call this our schoolbased integrated rural development .	我們稱之為以學校為基礎的鄉村發展 。
and it's a center , a focal point for economic and social development .	它是一個經濟和社會發展的焦點 。
redo the school , make it serve the community needs .	紅杉學校 , 讓它能服務社區的需求 。
and here is a bamboo building all of them are bamboo .	這裡有一個竹子建築 , 全部都是竹子 。
this is a geodesic dome made of bamboo .	這是竹子構成的地理圓頂 。
and i'm sure buckminster fuller would be very , very proud to see a bamboo geodesic dome .	我相信巴克敏斯特•富勒會非常非常驕傲看到竹子地理的圓頂 。
and we use vegetables around the school ground , so they raise their own vegetables .	我們在學校各地使用蔬菜 , 所以他們養育自己的蔬菜 。
and then , finally , i firmly believe , if we want the mdgs to work the millennium development goals we need to add family planning to it .	最後 , 我堅信 , 如果我們希望mdgs能做到千禧年發展目標 , 我們需要加入家庭規劃 。
of course , child mortality first and then family planning everyone needs family planning service it's underutilized .	當然 , 孩童的死亡率首先 , 然後家庭規劃每個人都需要家庭規劃服務 , 不被充分利用 。
so we have now found the weapon of mass protection .	所以我們已經找到了大規模保護的武器 。
and we also ask the next olympics to be involved in saving lives .	我們也要求下一個奧運會參與拯救生命 。
and then , finally , that is our network .	最後 , 這就是我們的網路 。
and these are our thai tulips .	這些是我們的泰國鬱金香 。
thank you very much indeed .	非常謝謝 。
your smartphone may feel like a friend but a true friend would give you a smile once in a while . at ted2013 , keller rinaudo demos romo , the smartphonepowered mini robot who can motor along with you on a walk , slide you a cup of coffee across the table , and react to you with programmable expressions .	你的智慧手機可能會覺得好像朋友 , 但真正的朋友會給你微笑一陣子 。 在ted2013年 , 凱爾•里納多•羅摩 , 智慧型手機力量的小型機器人 , 可以在散步上駕駛你 , 滑翔一杯咖啡橫跨桌子 , 並對你做出可程序表達的反應 。
keller rinaudo: a mini robot powered by your phone	kellerrinauuuuudo:一個由你的手機所發電的小型機器人 , 由你的手機所發電 。
so just by a show of hands , how many of you all have a robot at home ?	請舉手 , 你們當中有多少人家裡有機器人 ?
not very many of you .	不是很多人 。
okay . and actually of those hands , if you don't include roomba how many of you have a robot at home ?	好 。 實際上 , 如果你不納入席巴 , 你們當中有多少人在家裡有機器人 ?
that's the problem that we're trying to solve at romotive that i and the other 20 nerds at romotive are obsessed with solving .	這就是我們試圖解決的問題 , 我和其他20個羅馬運動怪胎都很著迷於解決問題 。
so we really want to build a robot that anyone can use , whether you're eight or 80 .	所以我們真的想建造一個人都可以使用的機器人 , 不論你是8或80歲 。
and as it turns out , that's a really hard problem , because you have to build a small , portable robot that's not only really affordable , but it has to be something that people actually want to take home and have around their kids .	結果發現 , 這是個非常困難的問題 , 因為你必須建立一個小型、可攜式的機器人 , 不只能負擔得起 , 還需要人們真的想要帶回家 , 帶著他們的孩子 。
this robot can't be creepy or uncanny .	這個機器人不能是尖銳或不可思議的 。
he should be friendly and cute .	他應該要友善且可愛 。
romo's a robot that uses a device you already know and love your iphone as his brain .	romo是一個機器人 , 它用你已經知道且喜歡你的iphone的大腦 。
and by leveraging the power of the iphone's processor , we can create a robot that is wifi enabled and computer visioncapable for 150 bucks , which is about one percent of what these kinds of robots have cost in the past .	藉由控制iphone處理器的力量 , 我們可以創造一個可以用wi-fi的機器人 , 用於150美元的電腦視覺影像 , 這大約佔了過去這類機器人所花費的1% 。
when romo wakes up , he's in creature mode .	當romo醒來時 , 他在生物模式中 。
so he's actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face .	所以他實際上是用這個攝影機在儀器上跟著我的臉 。
if i duck down , he'll follow me .	如果我掉下來 , 他會跟著我 。
he's wary , so he'll keep his eyes on me .	他很溫暖 , 所以他會盯著我看 。
if i come over here , he'll turn to follow me .	如果我來這裡 , 他會轉過來跟蹤我 。
if i come over here he's smart .	如果我來這裡 , 他很聰明 。
and if i get too close to him , he gets scared just like any other creature .	如果我太靠近他 , 他就跟其他生物一樣害怕 。
so in a lot of ways , romo is like a pet that has a mind of his own .	所以在很多方面 , romo就像寵物一樣 , 有自己的心智 。
thanks , little guy .	謝謝 , 小傢伙 。
and if i want to explore the world uhoh , romo's tired if i want to explore the world with romo , i can actually connect him from any other ios device .	如果我想要探索這個世界 , 如果我想要用romo來探索這個世界 , 我真的可以把他和其他ios裝置連結起來 。
so here's the ipad .	這是ipad 。
and romo will actually stream video to this device .	romo會把視頻傳送給這個裝置 。
so i can see everything that romo sees , and i get a robot'seyeview of the world .	所以我可以看到romo所看到的一切 , 然後我得到了一個機器人的觀點 。
now this is a free app on the app store , so if any of you guys had this app on your phones , we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together .	這是apps商店的免費應用程式 , 所以如果有任何人在手機上有這個應用程式 , 我們現在可以一起控制機器人 , 一起玩遊戲 。
so i'll show you really quickly , romo actually he's streaming video , so you can see me and the entire ted audience .	我很快地給你們看romo實際上他正在播放影片 , 你們可以看到我和整個ted觀眾 。
if i get in front of romo here .	如果我站在romo前面 。
and if i want to control him , i can just drive .	如果我想要控制他 , 我可以開車 。
so i can drive him around , and i can take pictures of you .	所以 , 我可以開著他 , 我可以拍攝你們的照片 。
i've always wanted a picture of a 1 , 500person ted audience .	我一直都想要一張1500位ted觀眾的照片 。
so i'll snap a picture .	我會拍一張照片 。
and in the same way that you scroll through content on an ipad , i can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device .	就像你在ipad上瀏覽內容一樣 , 我可以調整裝置上的攝影機角度 。
so there are all of you through romo's eyes .	在座所有人透過romo的眼睛 。
and finally , because romo is an extension of me , i can express myself through his emotions .	最後 , 因為romo是我的延伸 , 我可以透過他的情緒來表達自己 。
so i can go in and i can say let's make romo excited .	所以 , 我可以進去 , 我可以說 , 咱們來讓romo很興奮 。
but the most important thing about romo is that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive .	但是romo最重要的是 , 我們想要創造一個完全直覺的東西 。
you do not have to teach someone how to drive romo .	你不需要教別人如何駕駛romo 。
in fact , who would like to drive a robot ?	事實上 , 誰想開機器人 ?
thank you , scott .	謝謝 , 史考特 。
and even cooler , you actually don't have to be in the same geographic location as the robot to control him .	甚至更酷的是 , 你不需要在同一個地理位置來控制他 。
so he actually streams twoway audio and video between any two smart devices .	所以他實際上在任何兩個智慧型裝置之間雙向雙向音頻和視頻之間 。
so you can log in through the browser , and it's kind of like skype on wheels .	你可以透過瀏覽器登入 , 有點像輪子上的skype 。
so we were talking before about telepresence , and this is a really cool example .	我們之前談到遠端 , 這是個很酷的例子 。
you can imagine an eightyearold girl , for example , who has an iphone , and her mom buys her a robot .	舉例來說 , 你可以想像一個八歲的女孩 , 她有iphone , 她媽媽會買一個機器人 。
that girl can take her iphone , put it on the robot , send an email to grandma , who lives on the other side of the country .	那個女孩可以拿她的iphone , 把它放在機器人上 , 寄一封電子郵件給那個國家的另一端的祖母 。
grandma can log into that robot and play hideandgoseek with her granddaughter for fifteen minutes every single night , when otherwise she might only be able to get to see her granddaughter once or twice a year .	祖母可以登入那個機器人 , 和她孫女一起玩躲藏藏藏品 , 每晚十五分鐘 , 否則她可能只能一年一次或兩次看到她的孫女 。
so those are a couple of the really cool things that romo can do today .	這就是romo今天能做的一些很酷的事 。
but i just want to finish by talking about something that we're working on in the future .	但我只想談談未來我們正在努力的事物 。
this is actually something that one of our engineers , dom , built in a weekend .	這是我們其中一個工程師 , 多姆 , 在週末建造的 。
it's built on top of a google open framework called blockly .	它是建立在google開放架構上 , 叫做 「 街區 」 。
this allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic code and create any behavior for this robot you want .	這樣你就可以拖下這些字體 , 把這些字體放下來 , 為這個你想要的機器人創造任何行為 。
you do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for romo .	你不需要知道編碼如何為romo創造一個行為 。
and you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser , which is what you see romo doing on the left .	你可以在瀏覽器中模擬這個行為 , 這就是你在左邊看到romo在做的事 。
and then if you have something you like , you can download it onto your robot and execute it in real life , run the program in real life .	如果你有你喜歡的東西 , 你可以把它下載到你的機器人上 , 並在現實生活中執行這個計畫 。
and then if you have something you're proud of , you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world .	如果你有一些你很驕傲的東西 , 你可以和世界上任何一個擁有機器人的人分享 。
so all of these wifi–enabled robots actually learn from each other .	所以這些wi-fi可以互相學習的機器人 。
the reason we're so focused on building robots that everyone can train is that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal .	我們之所以專注於建造所有人都能訓練的機器人 , 是因為我們認為 , 個人機器人中最有吸引力的例子是個人機器人 。
they change from person to person .	他們從人轉變為人 。
so we think that if you're going to have a robot in your home , that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination .	所以我們認為 , 如果你在家裡有機器人 , 機器人應該是你自己的想像力的展現 。
so i wish that i could tell you what the future of personal robotics looks like .	所以我希望我能告訴你個人機器人的未來是什麼樣子 。
to be honest , i have no idea .	老實說 , 我不知道 。
but what we do know is that it isn't 10 years or 10 billion dollars or a large humanoid robot away .	但我們確實知道 , 不是十年或一千億美金 , 或大型人類機器人 。
the future of personal robotics is happening today , and it's going to depend on small , agile robots like romo and the creativity of people like yourselves .	個人機器人的未來正在發生 , 它依賴像romo這樣的小型、敏捷機器人 , 以及像你一樣的人的創造力 。
so we can't wait to get you all robots , and we can't wait to see what you build .	所以 , 我們等不及給你所有機器人 , 我們等不及去看看你建造什麼 。
author and activist isabel allende discusses women , creativity , the definition of feminism and , of course , passion in this talk .	作者和積極主義者討論女性、創意、女性主義的定義 , 當然 , 在這場演說中 , 熱情也是 。
entertainment , global issues , love , parenting , storytelling , women , world cultures	娛樂、全球議題、愛、養育、說故事、婦女、世界文化、文化、文化、文化、文化、文化、文化、文化 。
isabel allende tells tales of passion	伊莎貝爾•艾倫告訴人們熱情的故事 , 關於熱情的故事 。
thank you so much . it's really scary to be here among the smartest of the smart .	非常謝謝各位 。 很可怕 , 在這裡是聰明人中最聰明的人 。
i'm here to tell you a few tales of passion .	我來這裡要告訴各位幾個關於熱情的故事 。
there's a jewish saying that i love .	有一個猶太人說我愛的 。
what is truer than truth ? answer: the story .	什麼比真相更真實 ? 答案:故事 。
i'm a storyteller . i want to convey something that is truer than truth about our common humanity .	我是個說故事的人 , 我想傳達一些比我們人類更真實的東西 。
all stories interest me , and some haunt me until i end up writing them .	所有的故事都對我感興趣 , 有些讓我痛恨 , 直到最後我寫了這些故事 。
certain themes keep coming up: justice , loyalty , violence , death , political and social issues , freedom .	有些主題不斷出現:正義、忠誠、暴力、死亡、政治和社會議題、自由 。
i'm aware of the mystery around us , so i write about coincidences , premonitions , emotions , dreams , the power of nature , magic .	我意識到我們身邊的奧秘 , 所以我寫的是巧合、預兆、情感、夢想、自然的力量、魔法 。
in the last 20 years i have published a few books , but i have lived in anonymity until february of 2006 , when i carried the olympic flag in the winter olympics in italy .	過去20年 , 我出版了幾本書 , 但在2006年二月 , 我在義大利的奧林匹克總統住了 。
that made me a celebrity . now people recognize me in macy's , and my grandchildren think that i'm cool .	這使我成為名人 。 現在人們在macy的作品中認識我 , 而我的孫子認為我很酷 。
allow me to tell you about my four minutes of fame .	讓我告訴你我四分鐘的名聲 。
one of the organizers of the olympic ceremony , of the opening ceremony , called me and said that i had been selected to be one of the flagbearers .	奧林匹克典禮的組織者之一 , 打電話給我 , 說我被選為旗幟家之一 。
i replied that surely this was a case of mistaken identity because i'm as far as you can get from being an athlete .	我回答說 , 這是個錯誤認同的案例 , 因為我很可能從運動員到現在 。
actually , i wasn't even sure that i could go around the stadium without a walker .	事實上 , 我甚至不確定我可以在沒有步行者的體育場四處走動 。
i was told that this was no laughing matter .	我被告知這一點都不重要 。
this would be the first time that only women would carry the olympic flag .	這是第一次 , 只有女性會帶著奧林匹克國旗 。
five women , representing five continents , and three olympic gold medal winners .	五個女人 , 代表五大洲 , 三座奧運金牌贏家 。
my first question was , naturally , what was i going to wear ?	我第一個問題是 , 很自然地 , 我要穿什麼 ?
a uniform , she said , and asked for my measurements .	她說 , 她要求我的測量 。
i had a vision of myself in a fluffy anorak , looking like the michelin man .	我對自己有一個遠景 , 看上去像米其林人 。
by the middle of february , i found myself in turin , where enthusiastic crowds cheered when any of the 80 olympic teams was in the street .	到了二月的中期 , 我發現自己在土耳其 , 在那裡 , 當八十個奧運隊伍都在街上歡呼 。
those athletes had sacrificed everything to compete in the games .	這些運動員犧牲了所有能在遊戲中競爭的一切 。
they all deserved to win , but there's the element of luck .	他們都值得獲勝 , 但有運氣的元素 。
a speck of snow , an inch of ice , the force of the wind , can determine the result of a race or a game .	一片雪 , 一英吋的冰 , 風的力量 , 可以決定種族或遊戲的結果 。
however , what matters most more than training or luck is the heart .	然而 , 最重要的是訓練或運氣是心臟 。
only a fearless and determined heart will get the gold medal .	只有無懼且堅定的心才會得到金牌 。
it is all about passion .	重點是熱情 。
the streets of turin were covered with red posters announcing the slogan of the olympics .	渦輪的街道被紅海報覆蓋 , 宣佈奧運的口號 。
passion lives here . isn't it always true ?	熱情生活在這裡 , 不是一直都是真的嗎 ?
heart is what drives us and determines our fate .	心是驅使我們決定我們的命運 。
that is what i need for my characters in my books: a passionate heart .	這就是我在書中需要的角色:熱情的心 。
i need mavericks , dissidents , adventurers , outsiders and rebels , who ask questions , bend the rules and take risks .	我需要駭客、異議、冒險家、外人、反叛者 , 他們會問問題、彎曲規則、冒險 。
people like all of you in this room .	像在座所有人一樣 。
nice people with common sense do not make interesting characters .	有常識的好人並不會創造有趣的角色 。
they only make good former spouses .	它們只會製造好的前配偶 。
in the green room of the stadium , i met the other flag bearers: three athletes , and the actresses susan sarandon and sophia loren .	在體育館的綠色房間裡 , 我遇見另一位國旗的熊:三位運動員 , 和蘇珊•薩蘭登和蘇菲亞洛倫 。
also , two women with passionate hearts: wangari maathai , the nobel prizewinner from kenya who has planted 30 million trees . and by doing so , she has changed the soil , the weather , in some places in africa , and of course the economic conditions in many villages .	另外 , 兩個充滿熱情的女人:瓦加里•馬塔伊 , 來自肯亞的諾貝爾獎得主 , 她種植了三千萬棵樹 。 順便一提 , 她改變了土壤 , 天氣 , 在非洲的某些地方 , 當然還有許多村莊的經濟條件 。
and somaly mam , a cambodian activist who fights passionately against child prostitution .	蘇瑪莉莉 , 柬埔寨活動家對抗兒童賣淫的熱情 。
when she was 14 years old , her grandfather sold her to a brothel .	當她十四歲時 , 她的祖父把她賣給妓院 。
she told us of little girls raped by men who believe that having sex with a very young virgin will cure them from aids .	她告訴我們 , 小女孩被男人強暴 , 相信和一個非常年輕的處女做愛 , 會治癒愛滋病 。
and of brothels where children are forced to receive five , 15 clients per day , and if they rebel , they are tortured with electricity .	孩童被迫每天收到五、十五個客戶的妓院 , 如果他們反叛 , 他們會被電力折磨 。
in the green room i received my uniform .	我在綠色房間收到制服 。
it was not the kind of outfit that i normally wear , but it was far from the michelin man suit that i had anticipated . not bad , really .	這不是我平常穿的服裝 , 但它離我預期的米其林男子服裝很遠 , 真的很糟糕 。
i looked like a refrigerator .	我看起來像是冰箱 。
but so did most of the flagbearers , except sophia loren , the universal symbol of beauty and passion .	除了索菲亞•洛倫 , 普遍的美和熱情的象徵 。
sophia is over 70 and she looks great .	蘇菲雅已經超過70歲了 , 她看起來很棒 。
she's sexy , slim and tall , with a deep tan .	她很性感、很瘦、很高 , 且有很深的坦丁 。
now , how can you have a deep tan and have no wrinkles ?	那麼 , 你要如何有深層的坦丁 , 沒有皺紋 ?
when asked in a tv interview , " how could she look so good ? "	當電視訪談問: 「 她怎麼看起來這麼好 ? 」
she replied , " posture . my back is always straight , and i don't make old people's noises . "	她回答: 「 姿勢 。 我的背總是很直接 , 我不會讓老人的噪音 。 」
so , there you have some free advice from one of the most beautiful women on earth .	這裡有一些來自地球上最美麗的女性的自由建議 。
no grunting , no coughing , no wheezing , no talking to yourselves , no farting .	沒有打力、沒有咳嗽、沒有輪子 , 沒有交談 , 沒有給自己說話 , 沒有放棄 。
well , she didn't say that exactly .	嗯 , 她並沒有這麼說 。
at some point around midnight , we were summoned to the wings of the stadium , and the loudspeakers announced the olympic flag , and the music started by the way , the same music that starts here , the aida march .	在午夜的某個時點 , 我們被召喚到體育場的翅膀 , 大聲說出奧林匹克旗 , 一開始的音樂 , 一開始 , 同樣的音樂 , 從這裡開始 , 愛迪達遊行 。
sophia loren was right in front of me she's a foot taller than i am , not counting the poofy hair .	蘇菲雅羅倫就在我面前 , 她比我高一點 , 而不是在計算小頭髮 。
she walked elegantly , like a giraffe on the african savannah , holding the flag on her shoulder . i jogged behind on my tiptoes holding the flag on my extended arm , so that my head was actually under the damn flag .	她很優雅地走路 , 就像非洲大草原上的長頸鹿 , 把她的肩膀拿著旗子 。 我在我的小提琴背後抱著我的旗子 , 所以我的頭其實是在該死的旗幟下 。
all the cameras were , of course , on sophia .	當然 , 所有的攝影機都在索菲亞 。
that was fortunate for me , because in most press photos i appear too , although often between sophia's legs .	這對我很幸運 , 因為在大部分的媒體照片中 , 我也出現了 , 雖然通常在蘇菲亞的腿之間 。
a place where most men would love to be .	大部分男人都想要去的地方 。
the best four minutes of my entire life were those in the olympic stadium .	我一生中最棒的四分鐘是奧林匹克體育場中的那些人 。
my husband is offended when i say this although i have explained to him that what we do in private usually takes less than four minutes so he shouldn't take it personally .	當我說這句話時 , 我先生被冒犯了 , 雖然我已經向他解釋 , 我們私人的做法通常要花不到四分鐘 , 所以他不應該親自接受這件事 。
i have all the press clippings of those four magnificent minutes , because i don't want to forget them when old age destroys my brain cells .	我有這四分鐘的按鈕 , 因為我不想忘記 , 老年人摧毀我的大腦細胞時 。
i want to carry in my heart forever the key word of the olympics passion .	我想要永遠帶著我的心 , 奧林匹克的關鍵字 。
so here's a tale of passion .	這裡有個熱情的故事 。
the year is 1998 , the place is a prison camp for tutsi refugees in congo .	1998年 , 那個地方是剛果的托西難民營 。
by the way , 80 percent of all refugees and displaced people in the world are women and girls .	順道一提 , 世界上80%的難民和流離失所的難民都是女人和女孩 。
we can call this place in congo a death camp , because those who are not killed will die of disease or starvation .	我們可以稱之為剛果的死亡營地 , 因為那些沒有殺死疾病或餓死的人 。
the protagonists of this story are a young woman , rose mapendo , and her children .	這個故事的主角是年輕女性 , 蘿絲•布羅多和她的孩子 。
she's pregnant and a widow .	她懷孕、寡婦 。
soldiers have forced her to watch as her husband was tortured and killed .	士兵強迫她看著她的丈夫被虐待和殺害 。
somehow she manages to keep her seven children alive , and a few months later , she gives birth to premature twins .	不知怎麼的 , 她能讓她的七個孩子活下來 , 幾個月後 , 她產下了早產的雙胞胎 。
two tiny little boys .	兩個小男孩 。
she cuts the umbilical cord with a stick , and ties it with her own hair .	她用棍子切斷了腫瘤線 , 把頭髮和頭髮結合 。
she names the twins after the camp's commanders to gain their favor , and feeds them with black tea because her milk cannot sustain them .	她把雙胞胎命名為營地指揮官的名字 , 用黑茶餵給他們 , 因為她的牛奶無法維持它們 。
when the soldiers burst in her cell to rape her oldest daughter , she grabs hold of her and refuses to let go , even when they hold a gun to her head .	當士兵在她的牢房裡被摧毀 , 強暴她最老的女兒時 , 她抓住她 , 拒絕放手 , 即使他們拿著槍到她的頭上 。
somehow , the family survives for 16 months , and then , by extraordinary luck , and the passionate heart of a young american man , sasha chanoff , who manages to put her in a u . s . rescue plane , rose mapendo and her nine children end up in phoenix , arizona , where they're now living and thriving .	不知怎麼的 , 家庭存活了十六個月 , 接著 , 幸運的是 , 一位年輕的美國男子 , 薩薩薩哈•夏諾夫 , 他把她放在美國救援飛機上 , 蘿絲•馬德羅多和她的九個孩子 , 最後到了亞利桑那州的鳳凰城 , 他們現在生活和茁壯 。
mapendo , in swahili , means great love .	在斯瓦希里的地圖上 , 意味著偉大的愛 。
the protagonists of my books are strong and passionate women like rose mapendo .	我書籍的主角是堅強且熱情的女性 , 像蘿絲•布羅多 。
i don't make them up . there's no need for that .	我不把它們弄好 , 也不需要這樣 。
i look around and i see them everywhere .	我環顧四周 , 到處都看得到 。
i have worked with women and for women all my life .	我一生都在為女性和女性工作 。
i know them well .	我很清楚他們 。
i was born in ancient times , at the end of the world , in a patriarchal catholic and conservative family .	我出生於古代 , 在世界末日 , 在父權教派和保守家庭 。
no wonder that by age five i was a raging feminist although the term had not reached chile yet , so nobody knew what the heck was wrong with me .	難怪 , 五歲時 , 我是個憤怒的女權主義者 , 雖然當時還沒達到智利 , 所以沒有人知道我有什麼問題 。
i would soon find out that there was a high price to pay for my freedom , and for questioning the patriarchy .	我很快就會發現 , 有很高的代價可以支付我的自由 , 並且質疑父權 。
but i was happy to pay it , because for every blow that i received , i was able to deliver two .	但我很高興能付錢 , 因為每次我收到的炸 , 我都能遞送兩次 。
once , when my daughter paula was in her twenties , she said to me that feminism was dated , that i should move on .	有一次 , 我女兒保羅在她二十多歲時 , 她告訴我女權主義是約會的 , 我應該繼續下去 。
we had a memorable fight . feminism is dated ?	我們有可回憶的鬥爭 , 女權主義被約會了嗎 ?
yes , for privileged women like my daughter and all of us here today , but not for most of our sisters in the rest of the world who are still forced into premature marriage , prostitution , forced labor they have children that they don't want or they cannot feed .	是的 , 對於像我女兒這樣的特權女性 , 今天在座的我們所有人 , 但對世界上大部分的姊妹來說 , 仍然被迫結婚、賣淫、強迫勞工 , 他們有孩子 , 他們不想要或不能餵飽 。
they have no control over their bodies or their lives .	他們無法掌控自己的身體或生命 。
they have no education and no freedom .	他們沒有教育 , 也沒有自由 。
they are raped , beaten up and sometimes killed with impunity .	他們被強暴、被打、被打 , 有時會因為不幸而被殺 。
for most western young women of today , being called a feminist is an insult .	對於現今大部分的西方女性 , 被稱為女性主義者是侮辱 。
feminism has never been sexy , but let me assure you that it never stopped me from flirting , and i have seldom suffered from lack of men .	女權主義從來沒有性感 , 但讓我向你保證 , 它從來沒有阻止我 , 而我缺乏男性 。
feminism is not dead , by no means .	女性主義並不是死的 , 絕對沒有 。
it has evolved . if you don't like the term , change it , for goddess' sake .	它演化了 。 如果你不喜歡這個詞 , 改變它 , 改變它 , 為女神的樣子 。
call it aphrodite , or venus , or bimbo , or whatever you want ; the name doesn't matter , as long as we understand what it is about , and we support it .	稱之為 「 孤兒 」 , 或維納斯 , 或你想要的任何東西 ; 這個名字並不重要 , 只要我們了解它的意義 , 我們就會支持它 。
so here's another tale of passion , and this is a sad one .	這是另一個關於熱情的故事 , 這是個悲傷的故事 。
the place is a small women's clinic in a village in bangladesh .	這個地方是一個孟加拉村莊的小女子診所 。
the year is 2005 .	一年是2005年
jenny is a young american dental hygienist who has gone to the clinic as a volunteer during her threeweek vacation .	珍妮是一位年輕的美國牙醫 , 她在三週假期間當志工 。
she's prepared to clean teeth , but when she gets there , she finds out that there are no doctors , no dentists , and the clinic is just a hut full of flies .	她準備乾淨牙齒 , 但當她到了那裡時 , 她發現沒有醫生 , 沒有牙醫 , 診所只是一間滿是蒼蠅的小屋 。
outside , there is a line of women who have waited several hours to be treated .	外面有一系列的女性等待好幾個小時被治療 。
the first patient is in excruciating pain because she has several rotten molars .	第一位病人非常痛苦 , 因為她有好幾個腐爛的肌肉 。
jenny realizes that the only solution is to pull out the bad teeth .	珍妮知道唯一的解決方案就是拉出壞牙齒 。
she's not licensed for that ; she has never done it .	她沒有授權 , 她從來沒有做過 。
she risks a lot and she's terrified .	她的風險很大 , 她很害怕 。
she doesn't even have the proper instruments , but fortunately she has brought some novocaine .	她甚至沒有適當的樂器 , 但幸運的是她帶了一些諾瓦卡因 。
jenny has a brave and passionate heart .	珍妮有勇氣和熱情的心 。
she murmurs a prayer and she goes ahead with the operation .	她謀殺了祈禱 , 然後她繼續前進 。
at the end , the relieved patient kisses her hands .	最後 , 病患親吻了她的手 。
that day the hygienist pulls out many more teeth .	那天衛生學家抽出更多牙齒 。
the next morning , when she comes again to the socalled clinic , her first patient is waiting for her with her husband .	隔天早上 , 當她再次到所謂的診所時 , 她的第一個病人正在等著她的丈夫 。
the woman's face looks like a watermelon .	那位女士的臉看起來像是一個水手 。
it is so swollen that you can't even see the eyes .	你甚至看不到眼睛的腫脹 。
the husband , furious , threatens to kill the american .	丈夫、憤怒、威脅要殺死美國人 。
jenny is horrified at what she has done , but then the translator explains that the patient's condition has nothing to do with the operation .	珍妮對她所做的事感到害怕 , 但翻譯解釋病人的狀況和手術無關 。
the day before , her husband beat her up because she was not home in time to prepare dinner for him .	前一天 , 她的丈夫打敗了她 , 因為她沒時間為他準備晚餐 。
millions of women live like this today .	現今有數百萬的女性像這樣的生活 。
they are the poorest of the poor .	他們是窮人的最窮人 。
although women do twothirds of the world's labor , they own less than one percent of the world's assets .	雖然世界上三分之二的勞工 , 他們擁有不到1%的全球資產 。
they are paid less than men for the same work if they're paid at all , and they remain vulnerable because they have no economic independence , and they are constantly threatened by exploitation , violence and abuse .	他們的薪水遠低於男性的薪水 , 如果他們薪水完全沒有經濟獨立 , 而且他們經常受到剝削、暴力和虐待的威脅 。
it is a fact that giving women education , work , the ability to control their own income , inherit and own property , benefits the society .	事實上 , 給予女性教育、工作能力、控制她們自己的收入、繼承和財產的能力 , 讓社會受益 。
if a woman is empowered , her children and her family will be better off .	如果一個女人被賦予權力 , 她的孩子和她的家人會更好 。
if families prosper , the village prospers , and eventually so does the whole country .	如果家庭繁榮 , 村落的繁榮者 , 最終整個國家都如此 。
wangari maathai goes to a village in kenya .	wangarimaathai去了肯亞的村莊
she talks with the women and explains that the land is barren because they have cut and sold the trees .	她和婦女說話 , 解釋土地是貧瘠的 , 因為他們已經砍掉和賣掉了樹木 。
she gets the women to plant new trees and water them , drop by drop .	她讓婦女來種新樹 , 用它們 , 滴下水 。
in a matter of five or six years , they have a forest , the soil is enriched , and the village is saved .	在五、六年之內 , 他們有一片森林 , 土壤被豐富 , 村莊被拯救了 。
the poorest and most backward societies are always those that put women down .	最貧窮、最後退的社會總是把女性放下來的人 。
yet this obvious truth is ignored by governments and also by philanthropy .	然而 , 這種顯而易見的事實卻被政府和慈善機構忽視 。
for every dollar given to a women's program , 20 dollars are given to men's programs .	每一塊一塊錢給婦女專案 , 20塊美金給男性的計畫 。
women are 51 percent of humankind .	女性是51%的人 。
empowering them will change everything more than technology and design and entertainment .	授權他們會改變一切 , 勝過科技、設計、娛樂 。
i can promise you that women working together linked , informed and educated can bring peace and prosperity to this forsaken planet .	我可以向各位保證 , 女性一起合作 , 連結、知情、受過教育 , 能為這個星球帶來和平和繁榮 。
in any war today , most of the casualties are civilians , mainly women and children . they are collateral damage .	在今天的任何戰爭中 , 大部分的傷害都是平民百姓 , 主要是婦女和兒童 。 她們是殖民地的傷害 。
men run the world , and look at the mess we have .	男人經營這個世界 , 看看我們有的混亂 。
what kind of world do we want ?	我們想要什麼樣的世界 ?
this is a fundamental question that most of us are asking .	這是我們大多數人在問的基本問題 。
does it make sense to participate in the existing world order ?	是否合理地參與現有的世界秩序 ?
we want a world where life is preserved and the quality of life is enriched for everybody , not only for the privileged .	我們想要一個生活被保存的世界 , 生活的品質都被賦予每個人 , 不只是為了特權 。
in january i saw an exhibit of fernando botero's paintings at the uc berkeley library .	一月 , 我在柏克萊圖書館看到了費南多波特羅的畫作 。
no museum or gallery in the united states , except for the new york gallery that carries botero's work , has dared to show the paintings because the theme is the abu ghraib prison .	美國沒有博物館或畫廊 , 除了紐約的畫廊 , 博特羅的作品 , 敢展示這幅畫 , 因為主題是阿布格萊布監獄 。
they are huge paintings of torture and abuse of power , in the voluminous botero style .	它們是巨大的折磨和濫用權力的畫作 , 用大量的波特羅風格風格 。
i have not been able to get those images out of my mind or my heart .	我沒有辦法把這些影像從我心中或心中拿出來 。
what i fear most is power with impunity .	我最害怕的是無罪的力量 。
i fear abuse of power , and the power to abuse .	我害怕濫用權力和濫用權力 。
in our species , the alpha males define reality , and force the rest of the pack to accept that reality and follow the rules .	在我們的物種中 , 雄性領袖定義了現實 , 強迫其他的群體接受現實 , 並遵循規則 。
the rules change all the time , but they always benefit them , and in this case , the trickledown effect , which does not work in economics , works perfectly .	規則會隨時改變 , 但他們總是受益 , 在這個案例中 , 缺陷效應在經濟上行不通 , 完美地運作 。
abuse trickles down from the top of the ladder to the bottom .	從梯子的頂端 , 到底部 。
women and children , especially the poor , are at the bottom .	女人和小孩 , 特別是窮人 , 都在底部 。
even the most destitute of men have someone they can abuse a woman or a child .	即使是最缺乏男性的人 , 也有可能會虐待女人或小孩的人 。
i'm fed up with the power that a few exert over the many through gender , income , race , and class .	我得到的力量是透過性別、收入、種族、階級的少數人 。
i think that the time is ripe to make fundamental changes in our civilization .	我認為 , 時間是興起在我們的文明中做出根本的改變 。
but for real change , we need feminine energy in the management of the world .	但對於真正的改變 , 我們需要女性化的能量來管理世界 。
we need a critical number of women in positions of power , and we need to nurture the feminine energy in men .	我們需要一群女性在權力的位置 , 我們需要培養男性的女性能量 。
i'm talking about men with young minds , of course .	當然我在說的是年輕人 。
old guys are hopeless ; we have to wait for them to die off .	老人是無望的 , 我們得等他們死去 。
yes , i would love to have sophia loren's long legs and legendary breasts .	是的 , 我想要有蘇菲雅羅倫的長腿和傳奇胸 。
but given a choice , i would rather have the warrior hearts of wangari maathai , somaly mam , jenny and rose mapendo .	但 , 根據一個選擇 , 我寧願有華格里•馬塔伊的勇士心 , 索馬里、珍妮、羅絲•地圖 。
i want to make this world good .	我想讓這個世界變得更好 。
not better , but to make it good .	不是更好 , 而是要把它做得更好 。
why not ? it is possible . look around in this room all this knowledge , energy , talent and technology .	為什麼不 ? 它是有可能的 。 看看這個房間裡所有的知識、能源、才華和科技 。
let's get off our fannies , roll up our sleeves and get to work , passionately , in creating an almost perfect world .	讓我們擺脫我們的粉絲 , 捲起袖子 , 熱情地工作 , 創造一個幾乎完美的世界 。
every day , in a city the size of london , 30 million meals are served . but where does all the food come from ? architect carolyn steel discusses the daily miracle of feeding a city , and shows how ancient food routes shaped the modern world .	每天 , 在倫敦大小的城市中 , 有三千萬份餐會被服務 。 但是所有的食物從哪裡來 ? 建築師carolyns鋼鐵討論如何養活城市的奇蹟 , 展現出古老的食物路線如何塑造現代世界 。
cities , culture , food , global issues	城市、文化、食物、全球議題 。
carolyn steel: how food shapes our cities	卡羅琳•史黛爾:食物如何塑造我們的城市 , 如何塑造我們的城市 。
how do you feed a city ?	你要如何餵飽一個城市 ?
it's one of the great questions of our time .	這是我們這個時代最偉大的問題之一 。
yet it's one that's rarely asked .	但很少被問到 。
we take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant , or indeed into this theater's foyer in about an hour's time , there is going to be food there waiting for us , having magically come from somewhere .	我們視為理所當然 , 如果我們走進商店或餐廳 , 或在這個劇院的旅程中 , 大約一小時內 , 就會有食物等待著我們 , 魔幻地來自某處 。
but when you think that every day for a city the size of london , enough food has to be produced , transported , bought and sold , cooked , eaten , disposed of , and that something similar has to happen every day for every city on earth , it's remarkable that cities get fed at all .	但當你認為 , 每一天 , 對於倫敦大小的城市而言 , 足夠的食物必須被生產、運送、購買、煮飯、吃掉、丟棄、丟棄的城市 , 都必須每天發生類似的事情 , 才能讓所有城市都能滿足 。
we live in places like this as if they're the most natural things in the world , forgetting that because we're animals and that we need to eat , we're actually as dependent on the natural world as our ancient ancestors were .	我們生活在這樣的環境 , 彷彿它們是世界上最自然的東西 , 因為我們是動物 , 且我們需要吃東西 , 我們其實是依賴自然世界 , 就像我們的古老祖先一樣 。
and as more of us move into cities , more of that natural world is being transformed into extraordinary landscapes like the one behind me it's soybean fields in mato grosso in brazil in order to feed us .	隨著我們愈來愈多人進入城市 , 越多的自然世界被轉變為非凡的地景 , 就像我身後的景觀一樣 , 巴西的馬托格索州的黃豆田 , 為了餵飽我們 。
these are extraordinary landscapes , but few of us ever get to see them .	這些是非凡的地景 , 但我們當中少數人能看到它們 。
and increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either .	越來越多的地景 , 不僅是餵飽我們 。
as more of us move into cities , more of us are eating meat , so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals .	隨著更多人搬進城市 , 更多人吃肉 , 所以 , 全球每年有三分之一的穀物被餵給動物 , 而不是我們人類的動物 。
and given that it takes three times as much grain actually ten times as much grain to feed a human if it's passed through an animal first , that's not a very efficient way of feeding us .	假設它要花上三倍的穀物 , 實際上是十倍以上才能餵飽人類 , 如果它首先通過動物 , 那就不太有效率地餵飽我們 。
and it's an escalating problem too .	這也是一個越來越嚴重的問題 。
by 2050 , it's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities .	到了2050年 , 估計我們居住在城市的兩倍 。
and it's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed .	據估計 , 有兩倍的肉和奶油消耗量 。
so meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand .	所以肉和城市主義正在舉手 。
and that's going to pose an enormous problem .	這將會帶來巨大的問題 。
six billion hungry carnivores to feed , by 2050 .	到2050年 , 飢餓的食肉動物會餵飽六十億人 。
that's a big problem . and actually if we carry on as we are , it's a problem we're very unlikely to be able to solve .	這是個大問題 。 事實上 , 如果我們像我們一樣繼續下去 , 這是我們無法解決的問題 。
nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land .	每年有九百萬公頃的熱帶雨林消失了 , 創造出新的可耕地 。
although at the same time we're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion .	雖然同時 , 我們也失去了相當大量的現有的可耕地 , 來消滅和侵蝕 。
we're very hungry for fossil fuels too .	我們也非常渴望化石燃料 。
it takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the west .	我們在西方所消耗的每一卡路里要花十卡路里 。
and even though there is food that we are producing at great cost , we don't actually value it .	儘管我們在生產成本很高的食物 , 我們其實不重視它 。
half the food produced in the usa is currently thrown away .	美國有一半生產的食物被丟掉了 。
and to end all of this , at the end of this long process , we're not even managing to feed the planet properly .	最後 , 在這個長期的過程結束時 , 我們甚至無法適當地處理地球的食物 。
a billion of us are obese , while a further billion starve .	我們有十億人過胖 , 更深入的挨餓 。
none of it makes very much sense .	沒有什麼意義 。
and when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations , it's a grim picture .	當你認為全球80%的糧食交易只受五家跨國企業控制時 , 這是一張很辛苦的圖片 。
as we're moving into cities , the world is also embracing a western diet .	當我們進入城市時 , 世界也在擁抱西方的飲食 。
and if we look to the future , it's an unsustainable diet .	如果我們看看未來 , 這是個不永續的飲食 。
so how did we get here ?	我們是怎麼來到這裡的 ?
and more importantly , what are we going to do about it ?	更重要的是 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , to answer the slightly easier question first , about 10 , 000 years ago , i would say , is the beginning of this process in the ancient near east , known as the fertile crescent .	首先 , 要回答這個問題稍微簡單一點 , 大約一萬年前 , 我會說 , 這是在東方的古老過程的開端 , 也就是所謂的 「 肥料危機近期 」 。
because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .	因為 , 如你所見 , 它的形狀很近 。
and it was also fertile .	同時也是肥沃的 。
and it was here , about 10 , 000 years ago , that two extraordinary inventions , agriculture and urbanism , happened roughly in the same place and at the same time .	大約一萬年前 , 這裡有兩個非凡的發明 , 農業和城市主義 , 大約在同一個地方和同時發生 。
this is no accident , because agriculture and cities are bound together . they need each other .	這不是意外 , 因為農業和城市是互相連結的 。 他們需要彼此 。
because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements .	因為這是我們古老祖先第一次發現穀物 , 製造出足夠大且穩定的食物來源 , 足以支持永久定居地 。
and if we look at what those settlements were like , we see they were compact .	如果我們看看這些定居處是什麼樣子 , 我們會看到它們是互補的 。
they were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at ur , that were , in fact , effectively , spiritualized , central food distribution centers .	他們被生產力的農地包圍 , 由大型寺廟複合物所組成 , 實際上 , 是靈性化、中央食物分配中心 。
because it was the temples that organized the harvest , gathered in the grain , offered it to the gods , and then offered the grain that the gods didn't eat back to the people .	因為它是組織收割的寺廟 , 聚集在穀物裡 , 提供給神 , 然後給予神的穀物 。
so , if you like , the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them .	所以 , 如果你喜歡 , 這些城市的靈性和實體生活是由穀物和收割所支配的 。
and in fact , that's true of every ancient city .	事實上 , 每一座古老城市都是如此 。
but of course not all of them were that small .	當然 , 不是所有人都這麼小 。
famously , rome had about a million citizens by the first century a . d .	很有名的是 , 羅馬在第一世紀就有大約一百萬個市民 。
so how did a city like this feed itself ?	所以 , 像這樣的城市是怎麼餵飽的 ?
the answer is what i call " ancient food miles . "	答案就是我所謂的 「 古老食物哩 」 。
basically , rome had access to the sea , which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away .	基本上 , 羅馬能接觸到海洋 , 讓它可以在很遠的地方進口食物 。
this is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world , because it was very difficult to transport food over roads , which were rough .	這是我們在古代世界唯一能做到的方法 , 因為在路上運輸食物是非常困難的 。
and the food obviously went off very quickly .	食物很快就消失了 。
so rome effectively waged war on places like carthage and egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves .	羅馬有效率地打擊了像卡片和埃及的戰爭 , 只為了在他們的穀物儲備上拿到他的筆 。
and , in fact , you could say that the expansion of the empire was really sort of one long , drawn out militarized shopping spree , really .	事實上 , 你可以說 , 帝國的擴張其實是一塊很長的 , 用軍事化購物的速度 ,
in fact i love the fact , i just have to mention this: rome in fact used to import oysters from london , at one stage . i think that's extraordinary .	事實上 , 我很喜歡這個事實 , 我只需要提到羅馬實際上是從倫敦進口牡蠣的 , 我覺得那是不凡的 。
so rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite .	羅馬用它的胃口塑造了它的印度地 。
but the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the preindustrial world .	但有趣的是 , 在工業前的世界也發生了另一件事 。
if we look at a map of london in the 17th century , we can see that its grain , which is coming in from the thames , along the bottom of this map .	如果我們看看十七世紀的倫敦地圖 , 我們可以看到它的穀物 , 沿著這張地圖的底部 。
so the grain markets were to the south of the city .	所以穀物市場到城市的南方 。
and the roads leading up from them to cheapside , which was the main market , were also grain markets .	道路從它們變成便宜 , 也就是主要市場 , 也是穀物市場 。
and if you look at the name of one of those streets , bread street , you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago .	如果你看看其中一條街道的名字 , 麵包街 , 你可以知道300年前那裡發生了什麼事 。
and the same of course was true for fish .	當然 , 魚也是如此 。
fish was , of course , coming in by river as well . same thing .	當然 , 魚也來自河裡 。 同樣的事 。
and of course billingsgate , famously , was london's fish market , operating onsite here until the mid1980s .	當然 , billingsgate是倫敦的魚市場 , 直到1980年代中期 。
which is extraordinary , really , when you think about it .	真的 , 這真的是很了不起的 。
everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port .	每個人 , 都帶著手機 , 看起來像磚頭 , 有點像是魚在港口上流動 。
this is another thing about food in cities: once its roots into the city are established , they very rarely move .	這是城市裡食物的另一件事:一旦城市的根根被建立起來 , 它們就很少移動 。
meat is a very different story because , of course , animals could walk into the city .	肉是一種截然不同的故事 , 因為動物可以走進城市裡 。
so much of london's meat was coming from the northwest , from scotland and wales .	倫敦的肉大多來自西北部 , 來自蘇格蘭和威爾斯 。
so it was coming in , and arriving at the city at the northwest , which is why smithfield , london's very famous meat market , was located up there .	所以它進來了 , 抵達西北部 , 這就是為什麼斯密菲爾德倫敦非常著名的肉市場 , 位在那邊 。
poultry was coming in from east anglia and so on , to the northeast .	來自東孟加拉 , 諸如此類 , 到東北部 。
i feel a bit like a weather woman doing this . anyway , and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes .	我覺得我有點像天氣女士那樣做 。 總之 , 鳥會帶著牠們的腳 , 帶著小型的帆布鞋 。
and then when they hit the eastern end of cheapside , that's where they were sold , which is why it's called poultry .	當他們撞到便宜的東端時 , 這就是他們被賣的地方 , 這就是為什麼它被稱為 「 波里 」 。
and , in fact , if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age , you can trace food coming in to it .	事實上 , 如果你看任何一個城市的地圖 , 在工業時代之前 , 你可以追蹤食物進來 。
you can actually see how it was physically shaped by food , both by reading the names of the streets , which give you a lot of clues .	你可以看到它是如何被食物所塑造的 , 兩者都透過閱讀街道的名字 , 給你很多線索 。
friday street , in a previous life , is where you went to buy your fish on a friday .	星期五街 , 在過去的生活中 , 你在星期五去買你的魚 。
but also you have to imagine it full of food .	但你也得要想像它充滿食物 。
because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold .	因為街道和公共空間是唯一買賣食物的地方 。
and if we look at an image of smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from .	如果我們看看1830年史密斯菲菲爾德的圖像 , 你可以看到 , 在這樣的城市中 , 很難生存 , 無法察覺你的食物從哪裡來 。
in fact , if you were having sunday lunch , the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier .	事實上 , 如果你有星期日午餐 , 很可能是在你的窗外沖天或在窗外流血 , 大約三天前 。
so this was obviously an organic city , part of an organic cycle .	這顯然是個有機城市 , 是有機循環的一部分 。
and then 10 years later everything changed .	十年後 , 一切都改變了 。
this is an image of the great western in 1840 .	這是1840年西部大西部的照片 。
and as you can see , some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep .	如你所見 , 一些最早的火車乘客是豬和羊 。
so all of a sudden , these animals are no longer walking into market .	突然間 , 這些動物不再走進市場了 。
they're being slaughtered out of sight and mind , somewhere in the countryside .	他們被視覺和思想屠宰了 , 在鄉下的某處 。
and they're coming into the city by rail .	他們以鐵路來到城市裡 。
and this changes everything .	這改變了一切 。
to start off with , it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities , really any size and shape , in any place .	首先 , 它是有可能第一次種植城市 , 幾乎任何大小和形狀的 。
cities used to be constrained by geography ; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means .	過去的城市被地理學所限制 , 以前他們必須透過非常困難的實體方式取得食物 。
all of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography .	突然間 , 它們都被地理解放了 。
and as you can see from these maps of london , in the 90 years after the trains came , it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot , and so on , to a large splurge , that would be very , very difficult to feed with anybody on foot , either animals or people .	如你所見 , 從倫敦地圖所看到的 , 在火車來臨的90年後 , 它從一個很容易被動物吸食的小石塊 , 到大型的噴泉 , 很難餵飽任何人 , 不論是動物或人類 。
and of course that was just the beginning . after the trains came cars , and really this marks the end of this process .	當然 , 這只是開端 。 在火車來臨後 , 真的是這個過程的終點 。
it's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all .	它是城市的最後解放 , 完全與大自然之間的關係 。
and this is the kind of city that's devoid of smell , devoid of mess , certainly devoid of people , because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape .	這是一種無法聞到的城市 , 除非混亂 , 肯定沒有人 , 因為沒有人會夢想在這樣的地景中走路 。
in fact , what they did to get food was they got in their cars , drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts , came back with a week's worth of shopping , and wondered what on earth to do with it .	事實上 , 他們在車子裡拿到食物 , 開車到外圍的盒子裡 , 帶著一週的購物品回來 , 想知道在地球上怎麼做 。
and this really is the moment when our relationship , both with food and cities , changes completely .	這才是我們與食物和城市之間的關係 , 完全改變了 。
here we have food that used to be the center , the social core of the city at the periphery .	這裡我們有食物 , 以前是該城市的社會核心 。
it used to be a social event , buying and selling food .	以前是社會活動 , 買賣和賣食物 。
we used to cook ; now we just add water , or a little bit of an egg if you're making a cake or something .	我們以前會煮飯 , 現在我們加入水 , 或加一點蛋 , 如果你在做蛋糕或其他東西的話 。
we don't smell food to see if it's okay to eat .	我們不會聞到食物的味道 , 看看它是否可以吃 。
we just read the back of a label on a packet .	我們只是在包裝上讀取標籤的後面 。
and we don't value food . we don't trust it .	我們不珍視食物 , 我們不信任它 。
so instead of trusting it , we fear it .	所以我們不信任它 , 而是害怕它 。
and instead of valuing it , we throw it away .	而不是評估它 , 而是把它丟掉 。
one of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder .	現代食物系統的最諷刺之一 , 就是它們已經做出了他們承諾要更加困難的事 。
by making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place , they've actually distanced us from our most important relationship , which is that of us and nature .	藉由讓它能夠在任何地方建造城市 , 它們實際上已經讓我們與我們最重要的關係連結在一起 , 那就是我們和大自然 。
and also they've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver , that , as we've seen , are unsustainable .	他們也讓我們依賴只能傳遞的系統 , 如我們所見 , 它們是無法永續的 。
so what are we going to do about that ?	那我們要怎麼做呢 ?
it's not a new question .	這不是一個新問題 。
500 years ago it's what thomas more was asking himself .	500年前 , 湯瑪斯更是問自己 。
this is the frontispiece of his book " utopia . "	這是他的書《烏托邦》的頭版 。
and it was a series of semiindependent citystates , if that sounds remotely familiar , a day's walk from one another where everyone was basically farmingmad , and grew vegetables in their back gardens , and ate communal meals together , and so on .	那是一系列半獨立的城邦 , 如果聽起來很遙遠 , 一個人基本上是農夫 , 並且在他們背後的花園中長出蔬菜 , 吃飯的餐點等等 。
and i think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of utopia , even though more never framed it that way .	我認為你可以主張食物是烏托邦最基本的秩序原則 , 即使從來沒有用這種方式騙過它 。
and here is another very famous " utopian " vision , that of ebenezer howard , " the garden city . "	這裡還有另一個著名的 「 烏托邦 」 視覺 , 埃比塞內斯霍華德 , 「 花園城市 」 。
same idea: series of semiindependent citystates , little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around , joined to one another by railway .	同樣的點子:半獨立的城市 , 大都市的一小塊土地 , 加入一條鐵路 。
and again , food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision .	再一次 , 食物可以被說是他的願景定序原則 。
it even got built , but nothing to do with this vision that howard had .	它甚至建造了 , 但和霍華的這個遠景無關 。
and that is the problem with these utopian ideas , that they are utopian .	這就是這些烏托邦的想法的問題 , 他們是烏托邦人 。
utopia was actually a word that thomas moore used deliberately .	烏托邦其實是湯瑪斯•摩爾在刻意使用的詞 。
it was a kind of joke , because it's got a double derivation from the greek .	那是個笑話 , 因為希臘有雙倍的誘惑 。
it can either mean a good place , or no place .	它可能是好地方 , 或沒有地方 。
because it's an ideal . it's an imaginary thing . we can't have it .	因為這是理想的 , 這是個虛構的東西 。 我們不能擁有它 。
and i think , as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling , that makes it not much use .	我認為 , 作為一個概念性的工具 , 來思考人類居住的深層問題 , 讓它不太有用 。
so i've come up with an alternative , which is sitopia , from the ancient greek , " sitos " for food , and " topos " for place .	所以我想出了一個替代方案 , 也就是西托邦 , 古希臘的《西托》 , 用食物和 「 地點 」 。
i believe we already live in sitopia .	我相信我們已經住在西托邦 。
we live in a world shaped by food , and if we realize that , we can use food as a really powerful tool a conceptual tool , design tool , to shape the world differently .	我們生活在一個被食物所塑造的世界 , 如果我們意識到 , 我們可以把食物當成強大的工具 , 一種概念工具 , 設計工具 , 以不同的方式塑造世界 。
so if we were to do that , what might sitopia look like ?	所以如果我們這樣做 , 西托邦會長什麼樣子 ?
well i think it looks a bit like this .	我覺得它看起來有點像這樣 。
i have to use this slide . it's just the look on the face of the dog .	我必須用這張投影片 , 只是狗臉上的表情 。
but anyway , this is it's food at the center of life , at the center of family life , being celebrated , being enjoyed , people taking time for it .	總之 , 這是生活的中心 , 在家庭生活的中心 , 被慶祝 , 享受 , 人們花時間做這件事 。
this is where food should be in our society .	這就是我們社會裡應該要有食物的地方 。
but you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this .	但除非你有這樣的人 , 你不能有像這樣的景象 。
by the way , these can be men as well .	順道一提 , 這些人也可以是男性 。
it's people who think about food , who think ahead , who plan , who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them .	那些想到食物的人 , 先想到食物 , 他們的計畫 , 能夠盯著一堆原料的蔬菜 , 並且認出它們 。
we need these people . we're part of a network .	我們需要這些人 , 我們是網路的一部分 。
because without these kinds of people we can't have places like this .	因為如果沒有這些人 , 我們就沒有像這樣的地方 。
here , i deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable .	在這裡 , 我刻意選擇這一點 , 因為它是一個男人買蔬菜 。
but networks , markets where food is being grown locally .	但網路、市場 , 食物在當地生長的市場 。
it's common . it's fresh .	它很常見 , 很新鮮 。
it's part of the social life of the city .	它是城市社會生活的一部分 。
because without that , you can't have this kind of place , food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape , and is not just a zerosum commodity off in some unseen hellhole .	因為 , 若沒有這點 , 你就不能有這種地方 , 當地的食物也是地景的一部分 , 而不只是在一些不起眼的地獄裡的零和商品 。
cows with a view .	牛的觀點是 。
steaming piles of humus .	蒸汽的幽默 。
this is basically bringing the whole thing together .	這基本上是把整個東西湊在一起 。
and this is a community project i visited recently in toronto .	這是我最近去過多倫多的一個社區計畫 。
it's a greenhouse , where kids get told all about food and growing their own food .	這是一間溫室 , 孩子們被告知關於食物和種植自己的食物 。
here is a plant called kevin , or maybe it's a plant belonging to a kid called kevin . i don't know .	這裡有個叫做kevin的植物 , 或者是植物屬於一個叫kevin的孩子 。 我不知道 。
but anyway , these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important .	但無論如何 , 這些計畫正試圖將我們和大自然重新連結起來是非常重要的 。
so sitopia , for me , is really a way of seeing .	所以 , 對我來說 , 西托邦真的是一種看待的方式 。
it's basically recognizing that sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere .	基本上 , 意識到西托邦已經存在於各地的小口袋裡 。
the trick is to join them up , to use food as a way of seeing .	訣竅是要加入它們 , 把食物當作一種看法 。
and if we do that , we're going to stop seeing cities as big , metropolitan , unproductive blobs , like this .	如果我們這樣做 , 我們就會停止把城市看成是大城市 , 大都市 , 沒有生產力的泡沫 , 就像這樣 。
we're going to see them more like this , as part of the productive , organic framework of which they are inevitably a part , symbiotically connected .	我們將把它們視為是有生產力、有機架構的一部分 , 不可避免地連接在一起 。
but of course , that's not a great image either , because we need not to be producing food like this anymore .	當然 , 這也不是一個很棒的圖像 , 因為我們不需要再生產這樣的食物 。
we need to be thinking more about permaculture , which is why i think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing .	我們需要更深入思考永續栽培 , 這就是為什麼我認為這張影像只是總結出我們需要做的事 。
it's a reconceptualization of the way food shapes our lives .	這是食物如何塑造我們的生活 。
the best image i know of this is from 650 years ago .	我所知最好的圖片是650年前的 。
it's ambrogio lorenzetti's " allegory of good government . "	這是ambrogiolorenzetti的 「 好政府的寓言 」 。
it's about the relationship between the city and the countryside .	重點在於城市和鄉村之間的關係 。
and i think the message of this is very clear .	我認為這個訊息非常清楚 。
if the city looks after the country , the country will look after the city .	如果城市照顧這個國家 , 國家就會照顧這個城市 。
and i want us to ask now , what would ambrogio lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today ?	我現在要我們問 , 如果他今天畫了這張圖 , 安布羅吉歐•羅倫澤蒂會是什麼樣子 ?
what would an allegory of good government look like today ?	今天好政府的寓言會是什麼樣子 ?
because i think it's an urgent question .	因為我認為這是個迫切的問題 。
it's one we have to ask , and we have to start answering .	我們必須問一個問題 , 我們必須開始回答 。
we know we are what we eat .	我們知道我們在吃什麼 。
we need to realize that the world is also what we eat .	我們需要意識到 , 世界是我們所吃的 。
but if we take that idea , we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better .	但如果我們採取這個想法 , 我們可以把食物當作強大的工具來塑造世界 。
weeks from the charter for compassion launch , karen armstrong looks at religion's role in the 21st century: will its dogmas divide us ? or will it unite us for common good ? she reviews the catalysts that can drive the world's faiths to rediscover the golden rule .	從 「 同情心發射 」 的那幾週 , karenarmstrong看著宗教在21世紀的角色:它的教條會分裂我們嗎 ? 還是它會讓我們團結好事 ? 她會審視世界上的信仰 , 來重新發現黃金法則 。
god , ted prize , global issues , politics , religion , tedglobal2009 , violence	上帝 , tedprize , 全球議題 , 政治 , 宗教 , tedglobal2009 , 暴力 , 暴力 。
karen armstrong: let's revive the golden rule	karenarmstrong:讓我們重建黃金法則 。
for years i've been feeling frustrated , because as a religious historian , i've become acutely aware of the centrality of compassion in all the major world faiths .	多年來 , 我覺得很挫折 , 因為身為宗教歷史學家 , 我很敏銳地意識到在世界各大宗教中 , 同情心的核心 。
every single one of them has evolved their own version of what's been called the golden rule .	每一個人都演化出他們所謂的黃金法則 。
sometimes it comes in a positive version " always treat all others as you'd like to be treated yourself . "	有時會出現正面的版本 「 總是對待別人 , 就像你想要被對待一樣 。 」
and equally important is the negative version " don't do to others what you would not like them to do to you . "	同樣重要的是 , 負面的版本: 「 不要對別人做你不喜歡的事 。 」
look into your own heart , discover what it is that gives you pain and then refuse , under any circumstance whatsoever , to inflict that pain on anybody else .	看看你自己的心 , 發現它給你痛苦 , 然後在任何情況下拒絕 , 去衝突別人的痛苦 。
and people have emphasized the importance of compassion , not just because it sounds good , but because it works .	人們強調同情心的重要性 , 不只是因為它聽起來很好 , 也因為它有用 。
people have found that when they have implemented the golden rule as confucius said , " all day and every day , " not just a question of doing your good deed for the day and then returning to a life of greed and egotism , but to do it all day and every day , you dethrone yourself from the center of your world , put another there , and you transcend yourself .	人們發現當他們實施黃金法則時 , 說: 「 一整天 , 每一天都在做好事 , 不只想在一天中做好事 , 再回到一個貪婪和自我主義的人生 , 而是每天都在做 , 你從你的世界的中心 , 把自己放在那裡 , 然後你超越你自己 。
and it brings you into the presence of what's been called god , nirvana , rama , tao .	它帶你進入了所謂的 「 神 」 、 「 nirvana、rama、tao 」 的存在 。
something that goes beyond what we know in our egobound existence .	超越我們對自我的了解 。
but you know you'd never know it a lot of the time , that this was so central to the religious life .	但你知道你永遠都不知道 , 這對宗教生活是非常重要的 。
because with a few wonderful exceptions , very often when religious people come together , religious leaders come together , they're arguing about abstruse doctrines or uttering a council of hatred or inveighing against homosexuality or something of that sort .	因為有一些美好的例外 , 通常當宗教人士聚集在一起時 , 宗教領袖會聚集在一起 , 他們在爭論抽象的教義 , 或是說出仇恨或對同性戀或某種程度的同性戀 。
often people don't really want to be compassionate .	通常人們並不想要有同情心 。
i sometimes see when i'm speaking to a congregation of religious people a sort of mutinous expression crossing their faces because people often want to be right instead .	有時候我會看到 , 當我和一群宗教人士說話時 , 我會看到 , 一群獨立的表情會跨越他們的臉 , 因為人們通常會想要做對的事 。
and that of course defeats the object of the exercise .	這當然會擊敗運動的物體 。
now why was i so grateful to ted ?	為什麼我這麼感激ted呢 ?
because they took me very gently from my booklined study and brought me into the 21st century , enabling me to speak to a much , much wider audience than i could have ever conceived .	因為他們從我的書籍研究中帶我到21世紀 , 讓我能和一個比我想像的更廣的觀眾說話 。
because i feel an urgency about this .	因為我對此感到緊急 。
if we don't manage to implement the golden rule globally , so that we treat all peoples , wherever and whoever they may be , as though they were as important as ourselves , i doubt that we'll have a viable world to hand on to the next generation .	如果我們不辦法在全球實施黃金法則 , 這樣我們才能對待所有人 , 不論他們在哪裡 , 不論他們在哪裡 , 我都懷疑我們將會有一個可行的世界 , 把下一代交給下一代 。
the task of our time , one of the great tasks of our time , is to build a global society , as i said , where people can live together in peace .	我們這個時代的任務之一 , 是建立一個全球社會 , 如我所說的 , 在那裡 , 人們可以在和平生活在一起 。
and the religions that should be making a major contribution are instead seen as part of the problem .	而應該要做出重大貢獻的宗教卻被視為是問題的一部分 。
and of course it's not just religious people who believe in the golden rule .	當然 , 這不僅是宗教信仰黃金法則的人 。
this is the source of all morality , this imaginative act of empathy , putting yourself in the place of another .	這是所有道德的來源 , 這種想像性的行動 , 讓自己陷入另一個地方 。
and so we have a choice , it seems to me .	所以 , 我們有一個選擇 , 似乎對我來說是如此 。
we can either go on bringing out or emphasizing the dogmatic and intolerant aspects of our faith , or we can go back to the rabbis . rabbi hillel , the older contemporary of jesus , who , when asked by a pagan to sum up the whole of jewish teaching while he stood on one leg , said , " that which is hateful to you , do not do to your neighbor .	我們要不就是要帶出或強調我們的信仰 , 要麼我們回到拉比山脈 。 拉比希爾 , 他是耶穌的當代人 , 他要求一個猶太教教導他在一腿上挺身而出 , 說: 「 那些仇恨你 , 不要對你的鄰居做事 。
that is the torah and everything else is only commentary . "	這就是托拉 , 其他的都只是留言 。 」
and the rabbis and the early fathers of the church who said that any interpretation of scripture that bred hatred and disdain was illegitimate .	拉比斯和教堂的早期父親說 , 任何關於經文的詮釋 , 都是違法的 。
and we need to revive that spirit .	我們需要復興這精神 。
and it's not just going to happen because a spirit of love wafts us down .	這不只會發生 , 因為愛的精神讓我們失望 。
we have to make this happen , and we can do it with the modern communications that ted has introduced .	我們必須實現這一點 , 我們可以用ted所引導的現代溝通來實現 。
already i've been tremendously heartened at the response of all our partners .	我已經對所有伴侶的回應感到非常深刻 。
in singapore , we have a group going to use the charter to heal divisions recently that have sprung up in singaporean society , and some members of the parliament want to implement it politically .	在新加坡 , 我們有一群人要用章節來治療新加坡社會的分歧 , 議會的成員也想在政治上實施 。
in malaysia , there is going to be an art exhibition in which leading artists are going to be taking people , young people , and showing them that compassion also lies at the root of all art .	在馬來西亞 , 將會有一場藝術展覽 , 引領藝術家會帶領人們 , 年輕人 , 讓他們看到同情心也是所有藝術的根源 。
throughout europe , the muslim communities are holding events and discussions , are discussing the centrality of compassion in islam and in all faiths .	在歐洲 , 穆斯林社區都舉辦了事件和討論 , 討論的是伊斯蘭和所有信仰中央同情心 。
but it can't stop there . it can't stop with the launch .	但它不能停止 。 它不能停止發射 。
religious teaching , this is where we've gone so wrong , concentrating solely on believing abstruse doctrines .	宗教教導 , 這就是我們錯了的地方 , 只專注於相信抽象教條 。
religious teaching must always lead to action .	宗教教導一定會導致行動 。
and i intend to work on this till my dying day .	直到我的死日 , 我就要努力工作 。
and i want to continue with our partners to do two things educate and stimulate compassionate thinking .	我想繼續和我們的夥伴一起做兩件事 , 教育和刺激同情心思考 。
education because we've so dropped out of compassion .	教育是因為我們失去了同情心 。
people often think it simply means feeling sorry for somebody .	人們通常認為這只是對某人感到抱歉 。
but of course you don't understand compassion if you're just going to think about it .	但如果你想一想的話 , 你當然不了解同情心 。
you also have to do it .	你也得這麼做 。
i want them to get the media involved because the media are crucial in helping to dissolve some of the stereotypical views we have of other people , which are dividing us from one another .	我希望他們能讓媒體參與 , 因為媒體是很重要的 , 協助我們解開一些我們對別人的刻板印象 , 把我們從中分開 。
the same applies to educators .	教育家也一樣 。
i'd like youth to get a sense of the dynamism , the dynamic and challenge of a compassionate lifestyle .	我希望年輕人能感受到動態主義、動態和挑戰同情心的生活方式 。
and also see that it demands acute intelligence , not just a gooey feeling .	同時也看到它需要敏銳的智能 , 不單單單是優美的感覺 。
i'd like to call upon scholars to explore the compassionate theme in their own and in other people's traditions .	我想打電話給學者 , 去探索他們自己和其他人傳統中的同情心主題 。
and perhaps above all , to encourage a sensitivity about uncompassionate speaking , so that because people have this charter , whatever their beliefs or lack of them , they feel empowered to challenge uncompassionate speech , disdainful remarks from their religious leaders , their political leaders , from the captains of industry .	或許最重要的是 , 為了鼓勵不熱情的說話 , 為了鼓勵大家 , 不論他們的信仰或缺乏信仰 , 他們都覺得有能力挑戰不熱情的言論 , 來自他們宗教領袖、政治領袖 , 來自工業界的首長 。
because we can change the world , we have the ability .	因為我們可以改變世界 , 我們有能力 。
i would never have thought of putting the charter online .	我從來沒有想過要把這篇章放在網路上 。
i was still stuck in the old world of a whole bunch of boffins sitting together in a room and issuing yet another arcane statement .	我仍然被困在舊世界裡 , 一大群人坐在房間裡 , 一起發表另一種形容 。
and ted introduced me to a whole new way of thinking and presenting ideas .	ted向我介紹了一個全新的思考方式 , 展示想法 。
because that is what is so wonderful about ted .	因為這正是ted的美妙之處 。
in this room , all this expertise , if we joined it all together , we could change the world .	在這個房間裡 , 所有的專業知識 , 如果我們把這些都加在一起 , 我們就能改變世界 。
and of course the problems sometimes seem insuperable .	當然 , 有時候問題似乎是不可思議的 。
but i'd just like to quote , finish at the end with a reference to a british author , an oxford author whom i don't quote very often , c . s . lewis .	但我想引用的話 , 最後用英國作者的參考 , 牛津的作者我不常引用路易斯.路易斯的話 。
but he wrote one thing that stuck in my mind ever since i read it when i was a schoolgirl .	但他寫了一件事 , 從我讀書的時候就一直困在我腦海裡 。
it's in his book " the four loves . "	在他的書《四愛》中 。
he said that he distinguished between erotic love , when two people gaze , spellbound , into each other's eyes .	他說他分辨了愛情 , 當兩個人聚焦、拼字 , 彼此的眼睛 。
and then he compared that to friendship , when two people stand side by side , as it were , shoulder to shoulder , with their eyes fixed on a common goal .	接著 , 他比較了友誼 , 當兩個人站在旁邊 , 肩膀肩膀 , 雙眼固定在共同目標上 。
we don't have to fall in love with each other , but we can become friends .	我們不需要愛彼此 , 但我們能成為朋友 。
and i am convinced .	我深信 。
i felt it very strongly during our little deliberations at vevey , that when people of all different persuasions come together , working side by side for a common goal , differences melt away .	在我們對vey的小小小小的解讀中 , 我感覺非常強烈 , 當所有不同的說服者聚在一起 , 一起工作 , 一邊為共同目標而努力 , 差異會消失 。
and we learn amity .	我們也學會了野心 。
and we learn to live together and to get to know one another .	我們學會一起生活 , 去認識彼此 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
david macaulay relives the winding and sometimes surreal journey toward the completion of rome antics , his illustrated homage to the historic city .	davidmcaulay重現了風 , 有時超現實的旅程 , 走向羅馬論壇的競爭 , 他向歷史的城市展現出敬意 。
macarthur grant , art , arts , book , cities , communication , culture , design , entertainment , humor , storytelling	macarthurgreant , 藝術、藝術、書、城市、溝通、文化、設計、娛樂、幽默、說故事的人、說故事的人、藝術、書、城市、城市、溝通、溝通、文化、文化、設計、娛樂、娛樂、幽默
i draw to better understand things .	我繪畫出更了解事物 。
sometimes i make a lot of drawings and i still don't understand what it is i'm drawing .	有時候我會畫很多圖 , 我仍然不知道我在畫什麼 。
those of you who are comfortable with digital stuff and even smug about that relationship might be amused to know that the guy who is best known for " the way things work , " while preparing for part of a panel for called understanding , spent two days trying to get his laptop to communicate with his new cd burner .	在座有些人對數位的東西感到自在 , 甚至對那段關係感到不舒服 , 知道 「 事物運作的方式 」 的那個人 , 同時也準備了 「 理解 」 的一部分 , 花了兩天的時間 , 試圖讓筆記型電腦和他的新網球員溝通 。
who knew about extension managers ?	誰知道延伸經理呢 ?
i've always managed my own extensions so it never even occurred to me to read the instructions , but i did finally figure it out . i had to figure it out , because along with the invitation came the frightening reminder that there would be no projector , so bringing those carousels would no longer be necessary but some alternate form of communication would .	我一直在管理自己的延伸 , 以至於我從來沒有想過要閱讀這些指令 , 但我終於想出了 。 我必須想清楚 , 因為 , 一旦有了邀請 , 提醒沒有投影機 , 讓這些木偶不再是必要的 , 而是一些其他形式的溝通方式 。
now , i could talk about something that i'm known for , something that would be particularly appropriate for many of the more technically minded people here , or i could talk about something i really care about .	現在 , 我可以談談我所知道的東西 , 特別適合在現場許多有技術性思維的人 , 或者我可以談談我真正在乎的東西 。
i decided to go with the latter .	我決定去推特 。
i'm going to talk about rome .	我要談談羅馬 。
now , why would i care about rome , particularly ?	為什麼我會特別在乎羅馬 ?
well , i went to rhode island school of design in the second half of the '60s to study architecture .	嗯 , 我在60年代後期去了rhode島設計學院 , 研究建築學 。
i was lucky enough to spend my last year , my fifth year , in rome as a student . it changed my life .	我很幸運 , 去年 , 我在羅馬第五年 , 身為學生 , 它改變了我的人生 。
not the least reason was the fact that i had spent those first four years living at home , driving into risd everyday , driving back .	不是因為我在家住了前四年 , 每天開車回家 。
i missed the '60s . i read about them ; i understand they were pretty interesting . i missed them , but i did spend that extraordinary year in rome , and it's a place that is never far from my mind .	我錯過了60年代 。 我讀到他們 ; 我知道他們很有趣 。 我錯過了他們 , 但我在羅馬花了那一年的時間 , 這也是我從未想過的地方 。
so , whenever given an opportunity , i try to do something in it or with it or for it .	所以 , 每當有機會 , 我都會試著在裡面做點什麼 , 或用它來做 。
i also make drawings to help people understand things .	我也畫畫來幫助人們理解事物 。
things that i want them to believe i understand .	我希望他們相信我了解的事物 。
and that's what i do as an illustrator , that's my job .	這就是我作為一個插畫家所做的 , 那就是我的工作 。
so , i'm going to show you some pictures of rome .	我要給你們看一些羅馬的照片 。
i've made a lot of drawings of rome over the years .	多年來我畫了很多羅馬的畫作 。
these are just drawings of rome . i get back as often as possible i need to .	這些只是羅馬的畫作 , 我盡可能回去 。
all different materials , all different styles , all different times , drawings from sketchbooks looking at the details of rome .	各式各樣的材料 , 各種風格 , 各種不同時期 , 用草稿來繪製羅馬的細節 。
part of the reason i'm showing you these is that it sort of helps illustrate this process i go through of trying to figure out what it is i feel about rome and why i feel it .	我給你們看的部分原因是 , 這有點幫助我闡述這個過程 , 試圖找出我對羅馬的感受 , 以及我為什麼會感受到它 。
these are sketches of some of the little details .	這些是一些細節的草圖 。
rome is a city full of surprises .	羅馬是一個充滿驚喜的城市 。
i mean , we're talking about unusual perspectives , we're talking about narrow little winding streets that suddenly open into vast , sundrenched piazzas never , though , piazzas that are not humanly scaled .	我的意思是 , 我們談的是不尋常的觀點 , 我們談的是狹窄的小小小的風街道 , 突然間 , 被陽光照耀的帕薩斯人從來沒有被人類擴展過 。
part of the reason for that is the fact that they grew up organically .	其中一個原因是他們有機長大 。
that amazing juxtaposition of old and new , the bits of light that come down between the buildings that sort of create a map that's traveling above your head of usually blue especially in the summer compared to the map that you would normally expect to see of conventional streets .	那個古老和新鮮的混合物 , 會在建築物之間產生一幅地圖 , 通常是藍色的 , 特別是在夏天 , 你通常會預期看到傳統街道的地圖 。
and i began to think about how i could communicate this in book form .	我開始思考我如何以書的形式溝通 。
how could i share my sense of rome , my understanding of rome ?	我要如何分享我對羅馬的理解 , 我對羅馬的理解 ?
and i'm going to show you a bunch of dead ends , basically .	基本上 , 我要給你們看一大堆死屍 。
the primary reason for all these dead ends is when if you're not quite sure where you're going , you're certainly not going to get there with any kind of efficiency .	這些死亡的主要原因是 , 如果你不太確定你要去哪裡 , 你絕對不會有任何效率 。
here's a little map . and i thought of maps at the beginning ; maybe i should just try and do a little atlas of my favorite streets and connections in rome .	這是一張小地圖 , 我一開始就想到地圖 , 也許我應該試著在羅馬做一些我最喜歡的街道和連結 。
and here's a line of text that actually evolves from the exhaust of a scooter zipping across the page .	這裡有一條文字 , 實際上是從一群混音機在頁面上演化出來的 。
here that same line of text wraps around a fountain in an illustration that can be turned upside down and read both ways .	同樣的文字符號在一個噴泉周圍 , 可以被顛倒 , 同時閱讀兩種方式 。
maybe that line of text could be a story to help give some human aspect to this .	也許那句文字可以是故事 , 來協助給予人類的一些面向 。
maybe i should get away from this map completely , and really be honest about wanting to show you my favorite bits and pieces of rome and simply kick a soccer ball in the air which happens in so many of the squares in the city and let it bounce off of things . and i'll simply explain what each of those things is that the soccer ball hits .	也許我應該完全脫離這張地圖 , 說實話 , 說實話 , 我最喜歡的部分和羅馬 , 只要踢足球 , 就會在城市中發生 , 讓它爆發 。 我會解釋一下 , 足球會撞到什麼 。
that seemed like a sort of a cheap shot .	這看起來像是個便宜的照片 。
but even though i just started this presentation , this is not the first thing that i tried to do and i was getting sort of desperate .	但即使我剛開始做這個簡報 , 這不是我第一個嘗試做的事 , 而且我有點絕望 。
eventually , i realized that i had really no content that i could count on , so i decided to move towards packaging .	最終 , 我發現我沒有什麼內容 , 所以我決定要搬到包裝上 。
i mean , it seems to work for a lot of things .	我的意思是 , 這似乎對很多事情有用 。
so i thought a little box set of four small books might do the trick .	所以我想 , 一組有四本小書 , 可能就是把戲 。
but one of the ideas that emerged from some of those sketches was the notion of traveling through rome in different vehicles at different speeds in order to show the different aspects of rome .	但從這些草圖中浮現出來的其中一個想法就是以不同速度穿越羅馬的概念 , 來展現羅馬的不同面向 。
sort of an overview of rome and the plan that you might see from a dirigible .	有點像是從聖經中看到的羅馬和規劃 。
quick snapshots of things you might see from a speeding motor scooter , and very slow walking through rome , you might be able to study in more detail some of the wonderful surfaces and whatnot that you come across .	快速的拍攝你可能從快速的摩托車上看到的東西 , 速度非常慢 , 穿越羅馬 , 你可能可以更詳細地研究一些美妙的表面 , 以及你看到的是什麼 。
anyways , i went back to the dirigible notion .	總之 , 我回到了傳染的概念 。
went to alberto santosdumont .	去了albertosstsdumont
found one of his dirigibles that had enough dimensions so i could actually use it as a scale that i would then juxtapose with some of the things in rome .	發現他有足夠的維度 , 這樣我就可以把它當作一個規模 , 然後用羅馬的一些東西來混合 。
this thing would be flying over or past or be parked in front of , but it would be like having a ruler sort of travel through the pages without being a ruler .	這東西會飛過或過去 , 或被停在面前 , 但它就像是讓規則家穿越頁面 , 而不是統治者 。
not that you know how long number 11 actually is , but you would be able to compare number 11 against the pantheon with number 11 against the baths of caracalla , and so on and so forth . if you were interested .	不是你知道11實際上有多長 , 但你可以比較萬神廟11號與卡拉拉浴場的數字11號 , 等等 。 如果你有興趣的話 。
this is beatrix . she has a dog named ajax , she has purchased a dirigible a small dirigible she's assembling the structure , ajax is sniffing for holes in the balloon before they set off .	這是beatrix 。 她有一隻叫ajax的狗 , 她購買了一小塊她組裝的結構 , ajax在氣球上嗅洞 。
she launches this thing above the spanish steps and sets off for an aerial tour of the city .	她在西班牙階梯上發射這個東西 , 為城市航空巡迴 。
over the spanish steps we go .	我們走過西班牙階梯 。
a nice way to show that river , that stream sort of pouring down the hill .	讓大家看這條河 , 這條溪有點像是在山丘上倒下 。
unfortunately , just across the road from it or quite close by is the column of marcus aurelius , and the diameter of the dirigible makes an impression , as you can see , as she starts trying to read the story that spirals around the column of marcus aurelius gets a little too close , nudges it .	不幸的是 , 只要從路上走到路上 , 或很接近的是 , 馬克•奧里里斯的柱子 , 數位化的直徑就會產生印象 , 如你所見 , 當她開始閱讀馬克•奧利烏斯圓柱周圍的螺旋結構時 , 稍微靠近一點 , 推動它 。
this gives me a chance to suggest to you the structure of the column of marcus aurelius , which is really no more than a pile of quarters high thick quarters . over the piazza of saint ignacio , completely ruining the symmetry , but that aside a spectacular place to visit .	這讓我有機會向你們建議馬克•奧里里斯•奧利烏斯的結構 , 這其實不是一堆四分之一高厚的厚度 。 在聖吉納西亞的帕薩薩斯 , 完全毀掉了對稱性 , 但除了一個美妙的地方 。
a spectacular framework , inside of which you see , usually , extraordinary blue sky .	一個壯觀的框架 , 在裡面你看到的 , 通常 , 超凡的藍天 。
over the pantheon and the 26foot diameter oculus .	在萬神廟和26英尺的直徑大小 。
she parks her dirigible , lowers the anchor rope and climbs down for a closer look inside .	她停下來 , 把她的可導性繩索降低 , 爬到更近的外面 。
the text here is right side and upside down so that you are forced to turn the book around , and you can see it from ground point of view and from her point of view looking in the hole , getting a different kind of perspective , moving you around the space . particularly appropriate in a building that can contain perfectly a sphere dimensions of the diameter being the same as the distance from the center of the floor to the center of the oculus .	這裡的文字是對的 , 向下顛倒的 , 所以你被迫把書轉過來 , 從地面的角度看 , 從她的角度看 , 得到不同的觀點 , 移動你周圍的空間 。 特別是在一棟建築物中 , 完美地包含一個直徑的球體 , 和地板的距離 , 完全相同 。
unfortunately for her , the anchor line gets tangled around the feet of some boy scouts who are visiting the pantheon , and they are immediately yanked out and given an extraordinary but terrifying tour of some of the domes of rome , which would , from their point of view , naturally be hanging upside down .	不幸的是 , 對她來說 , 一線線圍繞著一些男孩偵查員的腳邊 , 他們馬上就被拋棄了 , 給出了不起但令人驚訝的旅行 , 從羅馬的角度來看 , 天生就站在下去 。
they bail out as soon as they get to the top of saint ivo , that little spiral structure you see there .	他們一旦抵達聖伊沃的頂端 , 你看到的那個小螺旋結構 。
she continues on her way over piazza navona .	她在納瓦納瓦納的路上繼續走 。
notices a lot of activity at the tre scalini restaurant , is reminded that it is lunchtime and she's hungry .	注意到在trespalini餐廳的許多活動 , 提醒了午餐時間 , 她很餓 。
they keep on motoring towards the campo de' fiori , which they soon reach . ajax the dog is put in a basket and lowered with a list of food into the marketplace , which flourishes there until about one in the afternoon , and then is completely removed and doesn't appear again until six or seven the following morning .	牠們持續朝馬馬波的方向前進 , 牠們很快就到達了 。 阿賈克斯把狗放在籃子裡 , 把一份食物列入市場中 , 在那裡繁盛 , 直到下午一次 , 然後完全消失 , 直到六、七個早上才出現 。
anyway , the pooch gets back to the dirigible with the stuff .	總之 , 大便會回歸這些東西 。
unfortunately , when she goes to unwrap the prosciutto , ajax makes a lunge for it .	不幸的是 , 當她去解開檢體時 , ajax為它做一個午餐 。
she's managed to save the prosciutto , but in the process she loses the tablecloth , which you can see flying away in the upper lefthand corner .	她成功拯救了代理人 , 但在她失去桌布的過程中 , 你可以看到在左上角飛走 。
they continue without their tablecloth , looking for a place to land this thing so that they can actually have lunch .	他們不用桌布繼續 , 尋找一個地方降落這個東西 , 讓它們真的可以吃午餐 。
they eventually discover a huge wall that's filled with small holes , ideal for docking a dirigible because you've got a place to tie up .	他們最終發現了一道巨大的牆 , 充滿了小洞的理想 , 因為你有地方可以連接起來 。
turns out to be the exterior wall that part of it that remains of the coliseum , so they park themselves there and have a terrific lunch and have a spectacular view .	結果發現 , 是哥倫坡剩下的那一部分的外牆 , 所以他們自己停在那裡 , 吃了很棒的午餐 , 有一個很棒的景象 。
at the end of lunch , they untie the anchor , they set off through the baths of caracalla and over the walls of the city and then an abandoned gatehouse and decide to take one more look at the pyramid of cestius , which has this lightning rod on top .	在午餐結束時 , 他們解開了房間 , 穿過卡卡卡拉的浴室 , 穿過城市的牆壁 , 然後一個廢棄的大門 , 決定再來看看cestius的金字塔 , 上面有個閃電板在上面 。
unfortunately , that's a problem: they get a little too close , and when you're in a dirigible you have to be very careful about spikes .	不幸的是 , 那是個問題:他們太靠近了 , 而當你在潛意識中 , 你必須非常謹慎地處理漏洞 。
so that sort of brings her little story to a conclusion .	所以這會讓她的故事成為一個結論 。
marcello , on the other hand , is sort of a lazy guy , but he's not due at work until about noon .	另一方面 , 馬可洛是個懶惰的傢伙 , 但他在工作之前 , 並不是在工作 。
so , the alarm goes off and it's five to 12 or so .	所以 , 警報響起了 , 只剩5到12歲 。
he gets up , leaps onto his scooter , races through the city past the church of santa maria della pace , down the alleys , through the streets that tourists may be wandering through , disturbing the quiet backstreet life of rome at every turn .	他站起來 , 跳上他的混亂 , 穿過城市的種族 , 穿越聖馬拉雅山脈的教堂 , 走下巷子 , 穿過遊說的街道 , 可能每次都會穿過羅馬的安靜背景生活 。
that speed with which he is moving , i hope i have suggested in this little image , which , again , can be turned around and read from both sides because there's text on the bottom and text on the top , one of which is upside down in this image .	他移動的速度 , 我希望我在這個小圖片中提出 , 同樣的 , 可以從兩邊轉過來閱讀 , 因為底部的文字和文字在上面 , 其中一個是顛倒的圖像 。
so , he keeps on moving , approaching an unsuspecting waiter who is trying to deliver two plates of linguine in a delicate white wine clam sauce to diners who are sitting at a table just outside of a restaurant in the street .	所以 , 他繼續走下去 , 接近一個不可思議的服務生 , 他試圖在一個精細的白葡萄酒店裡遞送兩塊語言的袋狼醬 , 到坐在餐廳外面的餐廳 。
waiter catches on , but it's too late .	服務生接上了 , 但太遲了 。
and marcello keeps moving in his scooter .	marcello繼續走進他的混亂 。
everything he sees from this point on is slightly affected by the linguine , but keeps on moving because this guy's got a job to do .	從這個點來看 , 他所看到的一切都稍微受到語言的影響 , 但繼續繼續下去 , 因為這個人有工作要做 。
removes some scaffolding . one of the reasons rome remains the extraordinary place it is that because of scaffolding and the determination to maintain the fabric , it is a city that continues to grow and adapt to the needs of the particular time in which it finds itself , or we find it .	除去一些支架 。 羅馬的其中一個原因是 , 因為支架和決心要維持結構 , 它是一個持續成長和適應特定時間的需求 , 或我們發現它本身的需求 。
right through the piazza della rotonda , in front of the pantheon again wreaking havoc and finally getting to work .	在萬神廟前面 , 皮亞薩•德拉•羅頓達 , 在萬神廟再次爆發 , 終於開始工作 。
marcello , as it turns out , is the driver of the number 64 bus , and if you've been on the number 64 bus , you know that it's driven with the same kind of exuberance as marcello demonstrated on his scooter .	結果發現 , 馬可洛是第64輛巴士的驅動力 , 如果你曾經搭過64輛巴士 , 你就知道它的驅動力和馬爾細胞在他的分數上展現出的差異 。
and finally carletto . you see his apartment in the upper lefthand corner .	最後 , 卡莉托 , 你可以看到他左上角的公寓 。
he's looking at his table ; he's planning to propose this evening to his girlfriend of 40 years , and he wants it to be perfect .	他看著他的桌子 , 計劃今晚提議他的女朋友40年 , 他希望它能完美 。
he's got candles out , he's got flowers in the middle and he's trying to figure out where to put the plates and the glasses .	他拿出蠟燭 , 中間有花 , 他正在想辦法把盤子和玻璃放在哪裡 。
but he's not happy ; something's wrong .	但他不快樂 ; 有些事是錯的 。
the phone rings anyway , he's called to the palazzo .	總之 , 電話響了 , 他被叫到帕拉佐 。
he saunters he saunters at a good clip , but as compared to all the traveling we've just seen , he's sauntering .	他在一段很棒的片段拍攝 , 但和我們剛剛看到的所有旅程相比 , 他正在散播 。
everybody knows carletto , because he's in entertainment , actually ; he's in television .	大家都知道卡爾圖 , 因為他在娛樂裡 , 其實他在電視上 。
he's actually in television repair , which is why people know him .	他其實是在電視修復室 , 這就是為什麼人們認識他 。
so they all have his number .	所以他們都有他的數字 。
he arrives at the palazzo , arrives at the big front door .	他抵達帕拉索 , 抵達大門 。
enters the courtyard and talks to the custodian , who tells him that there's been a disaster in the palazzo ; nobody's tvs are working and there's a big soccer game coming up , and the crowd is getting a little restless and a little nervous .	進入法庭 , 和顧客談話 , 他告訴他 , 帕拉佐有場災難 ; 沒有人的電視正在運作 , 有一個很大的足球比賽出現 , 群眾越來越不安 , 有點緊張 。
he goes down to the basement and starts to check the wiring , and then gradually works his way up to the top of the building , apartment by apartment , checking every television , checking every connection , hoping to find out what this problem is .	他走到地下室 , 開始檢查天線 , 然後逐漸地工作到建築物的頂端 , 公寓的位置 , 檢查每一間電視 , 檢查每一個連結 , 希望找出問題是什麼 。
he works his way up , finally , the grand staircase and then a smaller staircase until he reaches the attic .	他終於成功了 , 終於 , 巨大的樓梯 , 接著是一間小樓梯 , 直到他到達極點 。
he opens the window of the attic , of course , and there's a tablecloth wrapped around the building's television antenna .	當然 , 他開了房間的窗戶 , 當然 , 還有一張桌布 , 圍繞著建築的電視天線 。
he removes it , the problems are solved , everybody in the palazzo is happy .	他移除它 , 問題解決了 , 在帕拉茲索的每個人都很快樂 。
and of course , he also solves his own problem .	當然 , 他也解決了自己的問題 。
all he has to do now , with a perfect table , is wait for her to arrive .	他現在只需要用一個完美的桌子 , 等著她來到那裡 。
that was the first attempt , but it didn't seem substantial enough to convey whatever it was i wanted to convey about rome .	那是第一次嘗試 , 但似乎沒有足夠傳達我想要傳達的羅馬是什麼 。
so i thought , well , i'll just do piazzas , and i'll get inside and underneath and i'll show these things growing and show why they're shaped the way they are and so on .	所以我想 , 好吧 , 我會做帕薩斯 , 然後我會進去 , 下面我會展示這些東西正在成長 , 展現出它們的形狀 , 以此類推 。
and then i thought , that's too complicated . no , i'll just take my favorite bits and pieces and i'll put them inside the pantheon but keep the scale , so you can see the top of sant'ivo and the pyramid of cestius and the tempietto of bramante all side by side in this amazing space .	然後我想 , 這太複雜了 。 不 , 我把我最喜歡的位元和碎片放進萬神廟裡 , 但保持尺度 , 你可以看到聖西弗和塞西歐金字塔的頂端 , 和巴拉曼神廟的座位都放在這個很棒的空間裡 。
now that's one drawing , so i thought maybe it's time for piranesi to meet escher .	這是一張圖 , 所以我想也許是皮拉尼去見escher的時候了 。
you see that i'm beginning to really lose control here and also hope .	你可以看到我開始失去控制權 , 同時也失去了希望 。
there's a very thin blue line of exhaust that sort of runs through this thing that would be kind of the trail that holds it all together .	有一條非常薄的藍線 , 穿過這個東西 , 有點像是把所有東西黏在一起的軌跡 。
then i thought , " wait a minute , what am i doing ? "	然後我想: 「 等等 , 我在做什麼 ? 」
a book is not only a neat way of collecting and storing information , it's a series of layers .	一本書不只是收集和儲存資訊的好方法 , 它是一系列的層次 。
i mean , you always peel one layer off another ; we think of them as pages , doing it a certain way .	我的意思是 , 你總是把一層一層剝下來 , 我們把它們當成頁面 , 以某種方式做 。
but think of them as layers . i mean , rome is a place of layers horizontal layers , vertical layers and i thought , well just peeling off a page would allow me to if i got you thinking about it the right way would allow me to sort of show you the depth of layers .	但把它們想成一層層 。 我的意思是 , 羅馬是一層層層水層 , 垂直層層 , 我想 , 把頁面剝下來 , 如果我用正確的方式來思考 , 我可以給你們看一層層的深度 。
the stucco on the walls of most of the buildings in rome covers the scars ; the scars of centuries of change as these structures have been adapted rather than being torn down .	羅馬大部份建築物的牆壁覆蓋了疤痕數世紀以來 , 當這些結構被適應時 , 改變的疤痕已經被摧毀 , 而不是被摧毀 。
if i do a foldout page on the lefthand side and let you just unfold it , you see behind it what i mean by scar tissue .	如果我在左手邊做個摺疊頁 , 讓你把它放開 , 你就會看到我所謂的害怕組織 。
you can see that in 1635 , it became essential to make smaller windows because the bad guys were coming or whatever .	你可以看到 , 在1635年 , 製造小窗戶是必要的 , 因為壞人來了或其他東西 。
adaptations all get buried under the stucco .	適應一切都被埋在水底下 。
i could peel out a page of this palazzo to show you what's going on inside of it .	我可以把這帕拉索的一頁剝出來 , 讓你們看看裡面發生了什麼事 。
but more importantly , i could also show you what it looks like at the corner of one of those magnificent buildings with all the massive stone blocks , or the fake stone blocks done with brick and stucco , which is more often the case .	但 , 更重要的是 , 我也能向你們展示在那些偉大的建築物的角落 , 有大量的石塊 , 或假石塊 , 用磚塊和石油做成的 , 通常是這樣 。
so it becomes slightly threedimensional .	所以它變得有點三度空間 。
i could take you down one of those narrow little streets into one of those surprising piazzas by using a double gate fold double foldout page which , if you were like me reading a popup book as a child , you hopefully stick your head into .	我可以把一個狹窄的小街道帶到一個令人驚訝的黑猩猩之一 , 用雙重大門摺疊頁面 , 如果你像我小時候讀一本彈起的書 , 你希望能把你的頭伸進去 。
you wrap the pages around your head and are in that piazza for that brief period of time .	你把頁面包在你的頭上 , 用在那短暫的時間內 。
and i've really not done anything much more complicated than make foldout pages .	我真的沒做任何比摺紙更複雜的事 。
but then i thought , maybe i could be simpler here .	但接著 , 我想 , 也許我可以比較簡單 。
let's look at the pantheon and the piazza della rotonda in front of it .	咱們來看看萬神廟和前面的羅頓達斯.羅頓達 。
here's a book completely wide open .	這是一本完全開放的書
ok , if i don't open the book the whole way , if i just open it 90 degrees , we're looking down the front of the pantheon , and we're looking sort of at the top , more or less down on the square .	好吧 , 如果我不用整本書 , 如果我把它打開90度 , 我們就在看著萬神廟的前面 , 我們看到的是最上方的 , 或下面的 。
and if i turn the book the other way , we're looking across the square at the front of the pantheon .	如果我把這本書換成另一種方式 , 我們會在萬神廟前面看到正方形 。
no foldouts , no tricks just a book that isn't open the whole way .	沒有摺疊術 , 沒有把戲只是一本不打開的書 。
that seemed promising . i thought , maybe i'll do it inside and i can even combine the foldouts with the only partially opened book .	這似乎很有希望 。 我心想 , 也許我會在裡面做 , 我甚至可以把摺疊術和一部分開放的書做結合 。
so we get inside the pantheon and it grows and so on and so forth .	所以 , 我們進入萬神廟 , 它會不斷地成長 。
and i thought , maybe i'm on the right track , but it sort of lost its human quality .	我心想 , 也許我在正確的軌道上 , 但它有點失去了它的人類特質 。
so i went back to the notion of story , which is always a good thing to have if you're trying to get people to pay attention to a book and pick up information along the way .	所以 , 我回到故事的概念 , 如果你想要讓大家注意一本書 , 並沿途收集資訊 , 總是一件好事 。
" pigeon's progress " struck me as a catchy title .	「 鴿子的進步 」 把我當作捕撈標題 。
if it was a homing pigeon , it would be called " homer's odyssey . "	假如它是個宿主鴿子 , 它會被稱為 「 荷馬的奧德西 」 。
but it was the journey of the . . .	但那就是這段旅程......
i mean , if a title works , use it . but it would be a journey that went through rome and showed all the things that i like about rome .	我的意思是 , 如果標題能運作 , 使用它 , 但那會是一趟旅程 , 穿過羅馬 , 展現出我喜歡的東西 。
it's a pigeon sitting on top of a church .	這是一隻鴿子坐在教堂的頂端 。
goes off during the day and does normal pigeon stuff . comes back , the whole place is covered with scaffolding and green netting and there's no way this pigeon can get home .	白天離開 , 做正常的鴿子 。 回來了 , 整個地方都被支架和綠色網路覆蓋 , 沒有辦法回家 。
so it's a homeless pigeon now and it's going to have to find another place to live , and that allows me to go through my catalog of favorite things , and we start with the tall ones and so on .	它現在是個無家可歸的鴿子 , 它必須找到另一個居住的地方 , 這讓我可以通過我最喜歡的東西的目錄 , 我們從最高的鴿子開始 。
maybe it has to go back and live with family members ; that's not always a good thing , but it does sort of bring pigeons together again .	也許它必須回去和家人一起生活 , 這不見得一定是件好事 , 但它會再次將鴿子聚在一起 。
and i thought , that's sort of interesting , but maybe there's a person who should be involved in this in some way .	我心想 , 這有點有趣 , 但或許有一個人應該以某種方式參與其中 。
so i kind of came up with this old guy who spends his life looking after sick pigeons .	所以我想出了一個老人 , 他花了一輩子照顧病鴿 。
he'll go anywhere to get them dangerous places and whatnot and they become really friends with this guy , and learn to do tricks for him and entertain him at lunchtime and stuff like that .	他會到任何地方 , 讓他們危險的地方 , 是什麼 , 他們會和這個人交朋友 , 學會為他打招呼 , 用午餐時間娛樂他 , 等等 。
there's a real bond that develops between this old man and these pigeons .	這個老人和這些鴿子之間有一個真正的聯繫 。
but unfortunately he gets sick . he gets really sick at the end of the story .	但不幸的是 , 他生病了 。 在故事結束後 , 他生病了 。
he's taught them to spell his name , which is aldo .	他教他們拼他的名字 , 就是阿爾多 。
they show up one day after three or four days of not seeing him he lives in this little garret and they spell his name and fly around .	有一天 , 三四天後 , 他們沒有看到他住在這個小小的格言中 , 他們把他的名字拼起來 , 四處飛來 。
and he finally gets enough strength together to climb up the ladder onto the roof , and all the pigeons , a la red balloon , are there waiting for him and they carry him off over the walls of the city .	他終於得到足夠的力量 , 讓梯子爬上屋頂 , 所有的鴿子 , 一顆紅色的氣球 , 等著他 , 把他帶到城市的牆上 。
and i forgot to mention this: whenever he lost a pigeon , he would take that pigeon out beyond the walls of the city .	我忘了提到這一點:每當他失去鴿子時 , 他就會把鴿子拿出來超越城市的牆壁 。
in the old roman custom , the dead were never buried within the walls .	在古羅馬的習俗中 , 死者從未埋葬在牆壁中 。
and i thought that's a really cheery story .	我覺得這是個非常歡呼的故事 。
. that's really going to go a long way .	這真的會走很長的路 。
so anyway , i went through . . . and again , if packaging doesn't work and if the stories aren't going anywhere , i just come up with titles and hope that a title will sort of kick me off in the right direction .	總之 , 我走過...再一次 , 如果包裝沒有用 , 如果故事沒有去任何地方 , 我只是想出標題 , 希望一個頭銜會把我趕出正確的方向 。
and sometimes it does focus me enough and i'll even do a title page .	有時 , 它會讓我夠專注 , 我甚至會做一個標題 。
so , these are all title pages that eventually led me to the solution i settled on , which is the story of a young woman who sends a message on a homing pigeon she lives outside the walls of the city of rome to someone in the city .	所以 , 這些都是標題的頁 , 最終引導我解決我安定的解決方案 , 這是一位年輕女子的故事 , 她在羅馬城牆外傳送訊息給城市裡的人 。
and the pigeon is flying down above the appian way here .	鴿子就在俄國的上方飛過來 。
you can see the tombs and pines and so on and so forth along the way .	你可以看到番茄醬和松鼠等等 。
if you see the red line , you are seeing the trail of the pigeon ; if you don't see the red line , you are the pigeon .	如果你看到紅線 , 你會看到鴿子的軌跡 ; 如果你看不到紅線 , 你就是鴿子 。
and it becomes necessary and possible , at this point , to try to convey what that sense would be like of flying over the city without actually moving .	在這個時點 , 它變得必要且有可能 , 試圖傳達在城市中飛行的感覺 , 沒有真正移動的感覺 。
past the pyramid of cestius these will seem very familiar to you , even if you haven't been to rome recently past the gatehouse .	在塞西斯提烏斯的金字塔 , 似乎對你來說很熟悉 , 即使你最近還沒去過大門 。
this is something that's a little bit unusual .	這有點不尋常 。
this pigeon does something that most homing pigeons do not do: it takes the scenic route , which was a device that i felt was necessary to actually extend this book beyond about four pages .	這隻鴿子做的事 , 大部分的宿主鴿子都做不到:它採用了彩虹路線 , 那是我覺得需要延伸這本書 , 超越四頁 。
so , we circle around the coliseum , past the church of santa maria in cosmedin and the temple of hercules towards the river .	所以 , 我們繞著競技場繞過聖母堂 , 穿過了聖瑪雅教堂 , 穿過了聖母堂的神廟 , 朝著河流前進 。
we almost collide with the cornice of the palazzo farnese designed by michelangelo , built of stone taken from the coliseum narrow escape .	我們幾乎碰撞了palazofrangelo所設計的石頭 , 由米開朗基羅所製成的石頭從哥倫坡狹窄的逃脫 。
we swoop down over the campo de' fiori .	我們沿著柬埔寨的毛利游過了 。
this is one of those things i show to my students because it's a complete bastardization a denial of any rules of perspective .	這是我向學生展示的其中一件事 , 因為這完全是違反任何觀點的規則 。
the only rule of perspective that i think matters is if it looks believable , you've succeeded .	我認為唯一重要的規則是 , 如果看上去是可信的 , 你就成功了 。
but you try and figure out where the vanishing points meet here ; a couple are on mars and a couple of others in cremona .	但你試著去弄清楚這些消失的點在哪裡 , 有幾個在火星上 , 還有一些在克雷莫納州的其他地方 。
but into the piazza in front of santa maria della pace , where invariably a soccer game is going on , and we're hit by a soccer ball .	但在聖馬拉雅山脈的前方 , 一個足球賽正在進行 , 我們被足球球撞擊 。
now this is a terrible illustration of being hit by a soccer ball .	這是個很糟糕的例子 , 被足球撞到 。
i have all the pieces: there's santa maria della pace , there's a soccer ball , there's a little bit of a bird's wing nothing's happening , so i had to rethink it .	我有所有的作品:馬拉雅的速度 , 有足球 , 有些鳥的翅膀沒有發生 , 所以我必須重新思考 。
and if you do want to see santa maria della pace , these books are really flexible , incredibly interactive just turn it around and look at it the other way .	如果你想要看到聖誕節的速度 , 這些書真的很靈活 , 非常互動 , 把它轉過頭 , 用另一種方式來看它 。
through the alley , we can see the impact is captured in the red line .	透過巷子 , 我們可以看到紅線捕捉到的影響 。
and then bird manages to pull itself together past this medieval tower one of the few remaining medieval towers towards the church of sant'agnese and around the dome looking down into piazza navona which we've already mentioned and seen and flown over a couple of times ; there's the bernini statue of the four rivers and then past the wonderful borromini sant'ivo , stopping just long enough on the 26foot diameter oculus of the pantheon to catch our breath .	接著 , 鳥類在中世紀大樓上把自己拉過來 , 只有少數幾個中世紀高塔 , 直到聖阿格尼斯教堂和周圍的圓頂向下看 , 我們已經提到過、看過、流過幾次 ; 還有伯尼雕像的四個河流 , 經過了美妙的邊緣聖母聖母聖誕節 , 在26英尺深處停止了 , 足以抓住我們的呼吸 。
and then we can swoop inside and around ; and because we're flying , we don't really have to worry about gravity at this particular moment in time , so this drawing can be oriented in any way on the page .	然後我們就可以在裡面游動 , 因為我們在飛行 , 我們不需要擔心重力在這個特定的時刻 , 所以這幅圖可以在頁面上以任何方式呈現 。
we get a little exuberant as we pass gesu ; it's not surprising to sort of mimic the architecture in this way .	當我們通過gu時 , 我們得到了一點出乎意料的 。 這樣模仿建築並不讓人意外 。
past the wonderful wall filled with the juxtaposition that i was talking about ; beautiful carvings set into the walls above the neon " ristorante " sign , and so on .	過去的美麗牆上充滿了我剛剛提到的混合體 ; 美麗的雕刻設定在尼子《暴風》的牆壁上 , 等等 。
and eventually , we arrive at the courtyard of the palazzo , which is our destination .	最終 , 我們抵達帕拉茲索的庭院 , 也就是我們的目的地 。
straight up through the courtyard into a little window into the attic , where somebody is working at the drawing board .	直接穿過庭院 , 進入一個小窗口 , 在那裡有人在畫板上工作 。
he removes the message from the leg of the bird ; this is what it says .	他把信息從鳥的腳上移開 , 這是它所說的 。
as we look at the drawing board , we see what he's working on is , in fact , a map of the journey that the pigeon has just taken , and the red line extends through all the sights .	當我們看畫板時 , 我們看到他正在做的事 , 事實上 , 是鴿子剛拍的地圖 , 紅線穿越了所有的視覺 。
and if you want the information , so that we complete this cycle of understanding , all you have to do is read these paragraphs .	如果你想要資訊 , 所以我們完成了理解的循環 , 你只需要讀這些段落 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
mit researcher skylar tibbits works on selfassembly the idea that instead of building something , we can create materials that build themselves , much the way a strand of dna zips itself together . it's a big concept at early stages ; tibbits shows us three inthelab projects that hint at what a selfassembling future might look like .	麻省理工學院研究者skylartibbit在自組裝的概念上運作 , 取而代之 , 我們能創造出一些東西 , 來建立它們自己 , 讓dna自己形成的方式 。 這是早期階段的一個大概念 ; tibbit展示了我們三個 「 thelab 」 的專案 , 暗示了 「 自我組裝未來 」 的樣子 。
skylar tibbits: can we make things that make themselves ?	skylartebbit:我們能否製造出能自動製造的東西 ?
today i'd like to show you the future of the way we make things .	今天我想向各位展示我們製造東西的方式 。
i believe that soon our buildings and machines will be selfassembling , replicating and repairing themselves .	我相信 , 很快我們的建築物和機器就會自行組合、複製、修復它們 。
so i'm going to show you what i believe is the current state of manufacturing , and then compare that to some natural systems .	我要給你們看我相信的就是目前製造的狀態 , 然後和一些自然系統做比較 。
so in the current state of manufacturing , we have skyscrapers two and a half years [of assembly time] , 500 , 000 to a million parts , fairly complex , new , exciting technologies in steel , concrete , glass .	在目前的製造狀態 , 我們有摩天大樓兩年半的組裝時間 , 五十萬到一百萬個零件 , 相當複雜、更令人興奮的新科技在鋼鐵、混凝土、玻璃 。
we have exciting machines that can take us into space five years [of assembly time] , 2 . 5 million parts .	我們有令人興奮的機器可以將我們帶到太空中五年--組裝時間 , 250萬個零件 。
but on the other side , if you look at the natural systems , we have proteins that have two million types , can fold in 10 , 000 nanoseconds , or dna with three billion base pairs we can replicate in roughly an hour .	但另一方面 , 如果你看一下自然系統 , 我們有兩百萬種類型的蛋白質 , 可以折疊一萬奈秒 , 或dna有三十億個鹼基對 , 我們可以在大約一個小時複製 。
so there's all of this complexity in our natural systems , but they're extremely efficient , far more efficient than anything we can build , far more complex than anything we can build .	所以 , 在我們的自然系統中 , 所有這些複雜性 , 但它們非常有效率 , 比我們能建造的任何東西都有效率 , 遠比任何我們建造的東西還要複雜 。
they're far more efficient in terms of energy .	能源方面的效率更高 。
they hardly ever make mistakes .	他們幾乎沒有犯錯 。
and they can repair themselves for longevity .	他們可以修復自己長壽 。
so there's something super interesting about natural systems .	所以 , 天然系統有個超有趣的東西 。
and if we can translate that into our built environment , then there's some exciting potential for the way that we build things .	如果我們能將它轉化成我們的建設環境 , 那麼我們創造東西的方式有一些令人興奮的潛力 。
and i think the key to that is selfassembly .	我認為關鍵在於自我組裝 。
so if we want to utilize selfassembly in our physical environment , i think there's four key factors .	所以 , 如果我們想要在我們的身體環境中自行組裝 , 我認為有四個關鍵因素 。
the first is that we need to decode all of the complexity of what we want to build so our buildings and machines .	首先 , 我們需要解碼所有我們想要建造的東西的複雜性 , 來解碼我們的建築和機器 。
and we need to decode that into simple sequences basically the dna of how our buildings work .	我們需要把這些解碼成簡單的序列 , 基本上是我們建築物如何運作的dna 。
then we need programmable parts that can take that sequence and use that to fold up , or reconfigure .	接著 , 我們需要可編程的零件 , 可以把序列摺疊起來 , 或重新配置 。
we need some energy that's going to allow that to activate , allow our parts to be able to fold up from the program .	我們需要一些能量來啟動它 , 讓我們的零件能夠從計畫中摺疊起來 。
and we need some type of error correction redundancy to guarantee that we have successfully built what we want .	我們需要某種類型的錯誤修正 , 來保證我們成功地建造出我們想要的東西 。
so i'm going to show you a number of projects that my colleagues and i at mit are working on to achieve this selfassembling future .	所以我要給你們看一些我和我在麻省理工學院的同事正在努力實現這個自我組合的未來 。
the first two are the macrobot and decibot .	前兩位是宏觀機器人和丹麥人 。
so these projects are largescale reconfigurable robots 8 ft . , 12 ft . long proteins .	這些計畫是大規模重新設計的機器人8英尺 , 12呎長的蛋白質 。
they're embedded with mechanical electrical devices , sensors .	他們嵌入了機械電子設備、感應器 。
you decode what you want to fold up into , into a sequence of angles so negative 120 , negative 120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , negative 120 something like that ; so a sequence of angles , or turns , and you send that sequence through the string .	你解碼你想要摺成什麼 , 變成一連串的角度 , 如此負面120、0、120、120、120、負面120 , 像這樣的東西 ; 一連串的角度 , 或旋轉 , 你將序列通過弦 。
each unit takes its message so negative 120 it rotates to that , checks if it got there and then passes it to its neighbor .	每個單位都帶著它的負120個訊息 , 它會旋轉 , 如果它走到那裡 , 然後傳遞給它的鄰居 。
so these are the brilliant scientists , engineers , designers that worked on this project .	這些是傑出的科學家 , 工程師 , 設計師 , 研究這個計畫 。
and i think it really brings to light: is this really scalable ?	我認為這真的會帶來光:這真的很可擴展嗎 ?
i mean , thousands of dollars , lots of man hours made to make this eightfoot robot .	我的意思是 , 數千美金 , 許多人花時間來製造這八英尺的機器人 。
can we really scale this up ? can we really embed robotics into every part ?	我們真的能擴大它嗎 ? 我們能把機器人嵌入每個部分嗎 ?
the next one questions that and looks at passive nature , or passively trying to have reconfiguration programmability .	下一個問題 , 看看被動的大自然 , 或被動地嘗試重新設計程式 。
but it goes a step further , and it tries to have actual computation .	但它更進一步 , 它試圖進行實際的計算 。
it basically embeds the most fundamental building block of computing , the digital logic gate , directly into your parts .	基本上 , 它嵌入了最基本的計算積木 , 數位邏輯大門 , 直接進入你的零件 。
so this is a nand gate .	這是個nand大門 。
you have one tetrahedron which is the gate that's going to do your computing , and you have two input tetrahedrons .	有一個四面體 , 就是蓋茲會做你的計算 , 你有兩個輸入的四面體 。
one of them is the input from the user , as you're building your bricks .	其中一個是使用者的輸入 , 當你在建造你的磚塊時 。
the other one is from the previous brick that was placed .	另外一個是從前幾塊磚塊被放在那裡 。
and then it gives you an output in 3d space .	然後它給你一個輸出在3d空間的輸出 。
so what this means is that the user can start plugging in what they want the bricks to do .	這意味著 , 使用者可以開始加入他們想要的磚塊 。
it computes on what it was doing before and what you said you wanted it to do .	它計算它之前在做什麼 , 以及你說你想要它做什麼 。
and now it starts moving in threedimensional space so up or down .	現在它開始在三維空間中移動 , 或向下移動 。
so on the lefthand side , [1 , 1] input equals 0 output , which goes down .	所以在左手邊 , 輸入等於0輸出 , 輸出就會下降 。
on the righthand side , [0 , 0] input is a 1 output , which goes up .	在右手邊 , 0 , 輸入是1個輸出 , 它會上升 。
and so what that really means is that our structures now contain the blueprints of what we want to build .	這意味著我們的結構現在包含了我們想要建造的東西的藍圖 。
so they have all of the information embedded in them of what was constructed .	所以他們有所有的資訊嵌入其中 , 包含了所構成的 。
so that means that we can have some form of selfreplication .	這意味著我們可以有某種形式的自我複製 。
in this case i call it selfguided replication , because your structure contains the exact blueprints .	在這個例子中 , 我稱它為自動化複製 , 因為你的結構包含了精確的藍圖 。
if you have errors , you can replace a part .	如果你有錯誤 , 你可以取代一部分 。
all the local information is embedded to tell you how to fix it .	所有地方資訊都嵌入來告訴你如何修復它 。
so you could have something that climbs along and reads it and can output at one to one .	所以你可以有一些可以攀爬的東西 , 閱讀它 , 可以輸出一個到一個 。
it's directly embedded ; there's no external instructions .	它是直接嵌入的 ; 沒有外部的指令 。
so the last project i'll show is called biased chains , and it's probably the most exciting example that we have right now of passive selfassembly systems .	最後一個我要展示的項目叫做 「 偏見鏈 」 , 它可能是我們目前最令人興奮的例子 , 就是被動的自我組裝系統 。
so it takes the reconfigurability and programmability and makes it a completely passive system .	所以 , 它需要重組性和程式設計 , 讓它成為一個完全被動的系統 。
so basically you have a chain of elements .	基本上你有一連串的元素 。
each element is completely identical , and they're biased .	每個元素都完全相同 , 它們是偏見的 。
so each chain , or each element , wants to turn right or left .	所以每一條鏈 , 或每一條元素 , 都想要向右轉或左轉 。
so as you assemble the chain , you're basically programming it .	所以 , 當你組裝鏈時 , 你基本上是在編寫它 。
you're telling each unit if it should turn right or left .	你要告訴每個單位是否應該轉向右或左 。
so when you shake the chain , it then folds up into any configuration that you've programmed in so in this case , a spiral , or in this case , two cubes next to each other .	所以當你搖晃鏈時 , 它會折疊到你設計的任何結構中 , 在這裡 , 螺旋 , 或這個例子 , 兩個立方體相鄰 。
so you can basically program any threedimensional shape or onedimensional , twodimensional up into this chain completely passively .	基本上你可以編寫任何三維形狀或單一的二維形狀 , 完全被動化到這個鏈中 。
so what does this tell us about the future ?	所以 , 這告訴我們未來的什麼 ?
i think that it's telling us that there's new possibilities for selfassembly , replication , repair in our physical structures , our buildings , machines .	我認為它告訴我們 , 對於自我組裝、複製、修復、建築、機器有新的可能性 。
there's new programmability in these parts .	這些部分有新的程式性 。
and from that you have new possibilities for computing .	從那你有新的計算可能性 。
we'll have spatial computing .	我們將會有空間計算 。
imagine if our buildings , our bridges , machines , all of our bricks could actually compute .	想像一下 , 如果我們的建築物、橋樑、機器 , 所有的磚塊都能計算 。
that's amazing parallel and distributed computing power , new design possibilities .	這是很棒的平行和分散式的計算能力 , 新的設計可能性 。
so it's exciting potential for this .	所以這對此是很令人興奮的 。
so i think these projects i've showed here are just a tiny step towards this future , if we implement these new technologies for a new selfassembling world .	所以我認為 , 我在這裡展示的這些專案只是未來的一小步 , 如果我們為新自我組合的世界實施這些新科技 。
we've been to the moon , we've mapped the continents , we've even been to the deepest point in the ocean twice . what's left for the next generation to explore ? biologist and explorer nathan wolfe suggests this answer: almost everything . and we can start , he says , with the world of the unseeably small .	我們去過月球 , 我們繪製了這塊大陸 , 我們甚至去過了海洋最深的一點 。 下一代要探索什麼 ? 生物學家和探索者納森•沃爾夫提出了這個答案:幾乎所有事情 , 我們都可以開始 , 他說 , 在這個不可思議的小世界中 ,
biodiversity , exploration , microbiology , science	生物多樣性、探索、微生物學、科學、科學、科學 。
nathan wolfe: what's left to explore ?	nathanwolfe:還有什麼可以探索的 ?
recently i visited beloit , wisconsin .	最近我拜訪了威斯康辛州的貝洛特 。
and i was there to honor a great 20th century explorer , roy chapman andrews .	我在那裡榮耀一個20世紀的探險家 , 羅伊•查普曼•安德魯斯 。
during his time at the american museum of natural history , andrews led a range of expeditions to uncharted regions , like here in the gobi desert .	在他在美國自然歷史博物館的那段期間 , 安德魯斯帶領了一系列的探險到未知的區域 , 就像在戈比沙漠這裡 。
he was quite a figure .	他是個人物 。
he was later , it's said , the basis of the indiana jones character .	後來他說 , 印第安納瓊斯特徵的基礎 。
and when i was in beloit , wisconsin , i gave a public lecture to a group of middle school students .	當我在威斯康辛州的貝洛特 , 我公開演講給一群中學學生 。
and i'm here to tell you , if there's anything more intimidating than talking here at ted , it'll be trying to hold the attention of a group of a thousand 12yearolds for a 45minute lecture .	我來這裡要告訴各位 , 如果ted的演講比在座各位更嚇人的話 , 它會試著把一群12歲的孩子的注意力放在45分鐘的講座上 。
at the end of the lecture they asked a number of questions , but there was one that's really stuck with me since then .	演講結束後 , 他們問了幾個問題 , 但從那時起 , 有一個真的困住了我 。
there was a young girl who stood up , and she asked the question: " where should we explore ? "	有位年輕女孩站起來 , 她問了問題: 「 我們該去哪裡去探索 ? 」
i think there's a sense that many of us have that the great age of exploration on earth is over , that for the next generation they're going to have to go to outer space or the deepest oceans in order to find something significant to explore .	我想我們當中許多人認為地球上偉大的探索時代已經結束了 , 下一代他們必須去外太空或最深的海洋 , 才能找到重要的探索 。
but is that really the case ?	但這真的是事實嗎 ?
is there really nowhere significant for us to explore left here on earth ?	我們是否真的沒有足夠的意義去探索地球的左邊 ?
it sort of made me think back to one of my favorite explorers in the history of biology .	這讓我回想我最喜歡的生物學探險家之一 。
this is an explorer of the unseen world , martinus beijerinck .	這是未知世界的探險家 , martinusbeijerinck 。
so beijerinck set out to discover the cause of tobacco mosaic disease .	所以beijerinck開始發現菸草的原因 。
what he did is he took the infected juice from tobacco plants and he would filter it through smaller and smaller filters .	他所做的是把被感染的果汁從菸草植物中取出來 , 他會透過更小的過濾器過濾 。
and he reached the point where he felt that there must be something out there that was smaller than the smallest forms of life that were ever known bacteria , at the time .	他到達了他覺得外頭一定有的東西比當時所知的細菌最小的生命形式還要小 。
he came up with a name for his mystery agent .	他為他的神秘代理出了一個名字 。
he called it the virus latin for " poison . "	他稱之為 「 毒藥 」 。
and in uncovering viruses , beijerinck really opened this entirely new world for us .	在解開的病毒中 , 北京人真的為我們開啟了這個全新的世界 。
we now know that viruses make up the majority of the genetic information on our planet , more than the genetic information of all other forms of life combined .	我們現在知道病毒是由地球上大多數基因信息組成的 , 超過所有其他形式的生命的遺傳信息 。
and obviously there's been tremendous practical applications associated with this world things like the eradication of smallpox , the advent of a vaccine against cervical cancer , which we now know is mostly caused by human papillomavirus .	很明顯地 , 和這個世界有關的實用應用很明顯 , 像是天花消滅的疫苗 , 對抗天花疫苗 , 我們現在知道大部分是由人類乳癌所造成的 。
and beijerinck's discovery , this was not something that occurred 500 years ago .	貝尼吉納克的發現 , 500年前就發生了 。
it was a little over 100 years ago that beijerinck discovered viruses .	大約一百多年前 , 北京發現了病毒 。
so basically we had automobiles , but we were unaware of the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	基本上 , 我們有汽車 , 但我們不知道地球上大部分基因信息的形式 。
we now have these amazing tools to allow us to explore the unseen world things like deep sequencing , which allow us to do much more than just skim the surface and look at individual genomes from a particular species , but to look at entire metagenomes , the communities of teeming microorganisms in , on and around us and to document all of the genetic information in these species .	我們現在有了這些驚人的工具 , 讓我們可以探索未知的世界 , 像是深度定序 , 讓我們不僅僅只是滑雪表面 , 觀察不同物種的個別基因組 , 而是去看整個金屬 , 包括我們這些微生物的社群 , 並記錄這些生物中的所有基因資訊 。
we can apply these techniques to things from soil to skin and everything in between .	我們可以將這些技術應用在土壤中的東西上 , 到皮膚上 , 介於兩者之間 。
in my organization we now do this on a regular basis to identify the causes of outbreaks that are unclear exactly what causes them .	在我的組織中 , 我們現在在一個常規的基礎上做這件事 , 來辨識出爆發的原因 , 正是造成它們的原因 。
and just to give you a sense of how this works , imagine that we took a nasal swab from every single one of you .	為了讓各位了解這如何運作 , 想像一下 , 我們從你們每一個人身上拿出一根納莎莎白 。
and this is something we commonly do to look for respiratory viruses like influenza .	這是我們常做的事 , 去尋找呼吸道病毒 , 像是流感病毒 。
the first thing we would see is a tremendous amount of genetic information .	首先我們會看到的是大量的基因信息 。
and if we started looking into that genetic information , we'd see a number of usual suspects out there of course , a lot of human genetic information , but also bacterial and viral information , mostly from things that are completely harmless within your nose .	如果我們開始研究遺傳信息 , 我們會看到很多人類基因信息 , 當然 , 還有細菌和病毒信息 , 大部份來自鼻子裡完全沒有任何傷害的事物 。
but we'd also see something very , very surprising .	但我們也會看到非常非常非常非常驚人的東西 。
as we started to look at this information , we would see that about 20 percent of the genetic information in your nose doesn't match anything that we've ever seen before no plant , animal , fungus , virus or bacteria .	當我們開始研究這些資訊時 , 我們會發現在鼻子裡大約20%的基因信息並不符合我們從未見過的植物、動物、真菌、病毒 , 或細菌 。
basically we have no clue what this is .	基本上 , 我們完全不知道這是什麼 。
and for the small group of us who actually study this kind of data , a few of us have actually begun to call this information biological dark matter .	對我們這些真正研究這種數據的小組而言 , 我們當中的一些人已經開始稱之為 「 生物暗物質 」 。
we know it's not anything that we've seen before ; it's sort of the equivalent of an uncharted continent right within our own genetic information .	我們知道這不是我們以前見過的 ; 相當於我們基因信息中未知的大陸 。
and there's a lot of it .	還有很多 。
if you think 20 percent of genetic information in your nose is a lot of biological dark matter , if we looked at your gut , up to 40 or 50 percent of that information is biological dark matter .	如果你認為你的鼻子裡有20%的基因信息是許多生物暗物質 , 如果我們仔細觀察你的腸子 , 高達40%或50%的信息是生物暗物質 。
and even in the relatively sterile blood , around one to two percent of this information is dark matter can't be classified , can't be typed or matched with anything we've seen before .	即便在相對無菌的血液中 , 大約1%到2%的信息是暗物質無法被分類、打字或配對我們以前所見過的任何東西 。
at first we thought that perhaps this was artifact .	一開始 , 我們以為這可能是人造物 。
these deep sequencing tools are relatively new .	這些深度的定序工具相對比較新 。
but as they become more and more accurate , we've determined that this information is a form of life , or at least some of it is a form of life .	但隨著它們變得越來越精確 , 我們已經決定這些資訊是生命的一種形式 , 至少有些是生命的一種形式 。
and while the hypotheses for explaining the existence of biological dark matter are really only in their infancy , there's a very , very exciting possibility that exists: that buried in this life , in this genetic information , are signatures of as of yet unidentified life .	雖然解釋生物暗物質存在的假設其實只是它們的嬰兒期間 , 但有非常非常非常令人興奮的可能性存在:在這個生命中埋藏在這個基因信息中 , 是無證的生命特徵 。
that as we explore these strings of a's , t's , c's and g's , we may uncover a completely new class of life that , like beijerinck , will fundamentally change the way that we think about the nature of biology .	當我們探索a、t、c、g的這些弦時 , 我們可能會發現一個全新的生命類型 , 例如beijerinck , 基本上會改變我們對生物的本質的看法 。
that perhaps will allow us to identify the cause of a cancer that afflicts us or identify the source of an outbreak that we aren't familiar with or perhaps create a new tool in molecular biology .	這也許可以讓我們辨識出我們害怕的癌症成因 , 或辨識出我們不熟悉的疫情來源 , 或是在分子生物學中創造出新的工具 。
i'm pleased to announce that , along with colleagues at stanford and caltech and ucsf , we're currently starting an initiative to explore biological dark matter for the existence of new forms of life .	我很高興向大家宣布 , 和史丹佛大學的同事加州理工和加州理工和加州理工學院合作 , 目前我們正在開始探討生物暗物質 , 來探索新生命的存在 。
a little over a hundred years ago , people were unaware of viruses , the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	大約一百多年前 , 人們沒有意識到病毒 , 形成了地球上大部分基因信息的生命形式 。
a hundred years from now , people may marvel that we were perhaps completely unaware of a new class of life that literally was right under our noses .	一百年後 , 人們可能很奇妙 , 我們可能完全不知道新類型的生命類型 , 其實就在我們的鼻子底下 。
it's true , we may have charted all the continents on the planet and we may have discovered all the mammals that are out there , but that doesn't mean that there's nothing left to explore on earth .	的確 , 我們可能已經把地球上所有的大陸記錄下來 , 我們可能已經發現了所有的哺乳類動物 , 但這並不表示地球上沒有任何東西可以探索 。
beijerinck and his kind provide an important lesson for the next generation of explorers people like that young girl from beloit , wisconsin .	beijerinck和他為下一代的探險家提供了很重要的教訓 , 像是來自威斯康辛的年輕女孩 。
and i think if we phrase that lesson , it's something like this: don't assume that what we currently think is out there is the full story .	我想如果我們把這一課說出來 , 就是這樣:不要假設我們目前所認為的都是完整的故事 。
go after the dark matter in whatever field you choose to explore .	在你選擇去探索的領域中 , 不論你選擇去探索的領域之後 。
there are unknowns all around us and they're just waiting to be discovered .	我們身邊有未知的事物 , 他們只是在等待被發現 。
legendary scientist david deutsch puts theoretical physics on the back burner to discuss a more urgent matter: the survival of our species . the first step toward solving global warming , he says , is to admit that we have a problem .	傳奇科學家大衛.狄西克把理論物理放在背面 , 討論一個更緊迫的問題:人類的生存 。 解決全球暖化的第一步 , 他說 , 承認我們有一個問題 。
climate change , cosmos , culture , environment , global issues , physics , science , technology , universe	氣候變遷、宇宙、文化、環境、物理、科學、科技、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、文化、文化、環境、環境、全球議題、物理議題、物理、科學、科學、科學、科技、
david deutsch on our place in the cosmos	大衛•迪斯奇在我們所在的宇宙中位置 。
we've been told to go out on a limb and say something surprising .	我們被告知要走出肢體 , 說出令人驚訝的事 。
so i'll try and do that , but i want to start with two things that everyone already knows .	我會試著這樣做 , 但我想從大家都知道的兩件事開始 。
and the first one , in fact , is something that has been known for most of recorded history .	事實上 , 首先 , 大部分記錄的歷史都是已知的 。
and that is that the planet earth , or the solar system , or our environment or whatever , is uniquely suited to sustain our evolution or creation , as it used to be thought and our present existence , and most important , our future survival .	那就是地球 , 或太陽系 , 或我們的環境 , 獨一無二地適合維持我們的進化或創造 , 因為它以前是思索和現存 , 最重要的是我們未來的生存 。
nowadays this idea has a dramatic name: spaceship earth .	現今這個想法有個很戲劇性的名字:太空船地球 。
and the idea there is that outside the spaceship , the universe is implacably hostile , and inside is all we have , all we depend on .	這個想法是 , 在太空船之外 , 宇宙是無敵的 , 裡面就是我們所擁有的 , 我們全部依賴的 。
and we only get the one chance: if we mess up our spaceship , we've got nowhere else to go .	我們只有一個機會:如果我們搞砸了我們的太空船 , 我們就沒有其他地方可以去 。
now , the second thing that everyone already knows is that contrary to what was believed for most of human history , human beings are not , in fact , the hub of existence .	現在 , 大家已經知道的第二件事是 , 與大多數人類歷史所相信的相反 , 事實上 , 人類並不是存在的中心 。
as stephen hawking famously said , we're just a chemical scum on the surface of a typical planet that's in orbit around a typical star , which is on the outskirts of a typical galaxy , and so on .	如史蒂芬霍金所說的 , 我們只是一個典型的星球表面上的化學污垢 , 繞著一個典型的恆星繞著一個典型銀河系的外圍 , 等等 。
now the first of those two things that everyone knows is kind of saying that we're at a very untypical place , uniquely suited and so on , and the second one is saying that we're at a typical place .	首先 , 大家都知道的這兩件事 , 就是說我們處在一個非常不典型的地方 , 獨一無二的配合等等 , 第二個是說我們處在一個典型的地方 。
and especially if you regard these two as deep truths to live by and to inform your life decisions , then they seem a little bit to conflict with each other .	特別是如果你把這兩種深度的真相視為生活的深刻真相 , 來告知你人生的決策 , 那麼他們似乎有點矛盾 。
but that doesn't prevent them from both being completely false .	但這並不能阻止他們完全錯誤 。
and they are . so let me start with the second one: typical . well is this a typical place ? well , let's look around , you know , and look in a random direction , and we see a wall , and chemical scum and that's not typical of the universe at all .	它們是 。 讓我從第二個開始:典型的 。 嗯 , 這是一個典型的地方嗎 ? 咱們看看四周 , 看看隨機方向 , 我們看到一面牆 , 化學污垢 , 完全不是典型的宇宙 。
all you've got to do is go a few hundred miles in that same direction and look back , and you won't see any walls or chemical scum at all all you see is a blue planet . and if you go further than that , you'll see the sun , the solar system , and the stars and so on .	你所要做的就是向同樣的方向走幾百英哩 , 回頭看 , 你看不到任何牆或化學污垢 , 都是藍色的星球 。 如果你更進一步看 , 太陽、太陽系 , 和恆星等等 。
but that's still not typical of the universe , because stars come in galaxies .	但這仍然不是典型的宇宙 , 因為恆星在星系中出現 。
and most places in the universe , a typical place in the universe , is nowhere near any galaxies .	宇宙中的大部分地方 , 一個典型的地方 , 幾乎沒有任何星系 。
so let's go out further , till we're outside the galaxy , and look back , and yeah , there's the huge galaxy with spiral arms laid out in front of us .	讓我們再往前走 , 直到我們在銀河外 , 回頭看 , 是的 , 有一個巨大的星系 , 在我們面前放置螺旋臂 。
and at this point we've come 100 , 000 light years from here .	此時此刻 , 我們已經有十萬光年了 。
but we're still nowhere near a typical place in the universe .	但 , 我們仍然不在宇宙中典型的地方 。
to get to a typical place , you've got to go 1 , 000 times as far as that into intergalactic space .	要到一個典型的地方 , 你必須走上一千倍的距離空間 。
and so what does that look like ? typical .	那看起來是什麼樣子 ? 典型的 。
what does a typical place in the universe look like ?	宇宙中的典型地方是什麼樣子 ?
well , at enormous expense , ted has arranged a highresolution immersion virtual reality rendering of intergalactic space the view from intergalactic space .	嗯 , 在很大的花費上 , ted已經安排了高解析度的虛擬實境 , 呈現出在銀河空間中從星系空間的觀點 。
so can we have the lights off , please , so we can see it ?	所以 , 我們能不能讓燈亮起來 , 這樣我們就能看到嗎 ?
well , not quite , not quite perfect you see , in intergalactic space intergalactic space is completely dark , pitch dark .	嗯 , 不太完美 , 你可以看到 , 在星系空間中間的星系空間完全是黑暗的 , 音高漆黑 。
it's so dark that if you were to be looking at the nearest star to you , and that star were to explode as a supernova , and you were to be staring directly at it at the moment when its light reached you , you still wouldn't be able to see even a glimmer .	這真是黑暗 , 如果你看著最近的恆星 , 那顆恆星會被超新星爆炸 , 而當你的光線接近你時 , 你仍然無法直接看到它 。
that's how big and how dark the universe is .	宇宙有多大和黑暗 。
and that's despite the fact that a supernova is so bright , so brilliant an event , that it would kill you stone dead at a range of several light years .	儘管超新星這麼亮 , 所以很聰明 , 它會在數光年之內殺死你 。
and yet from intergalactic space , it's so far away you wouldn't even see it .	然而 , 從星系空間 , 到目前為止 , 你根本看不到它 。
it's also very cold out there less than three degrees above absolute zero .	外面的溫度低於絕對零度三度 。
and it's very empty . the vacuum there is one million times less dense than the highest vacuum that our best technology on earth can currently create . so that's how different a typical place is from this place .	它非常空 , 真空 , 比地球上最高的科技還要少一百萬倍 , 我們的地球上最好的科技都能創造出來 。 這也是典型的地方 。
and that is how untypical this place is .	這就是這個地方是如此不典型 。
so can we have the lights back on please ? thank you .	所以 , 我們能把燈打回來嗎 ? 謝謝 。
now how do we know about an environment that's so far away , and so different , and so alien , from anything we're used to ?	現在 , 我們怎麼知道一個遙遠的環境 , 這麼不同 , 外星人 , 從任何我們習慣的環境中 ?
well , the earth our environment , in the form of us is creating knowledge .	嗯 , 地球是我們的環境 , 以我們形式在創造知識 。
well , what does that mean ? well , look out even further than we've just been i mean from here , with a telescope and you'll see things that look like stars .	那意味著什麼 ? 嗯 , 看看比我們剛才說的更遠 , 用望遠鏡 , 看看看起來像星星的東西 。
they're called " quasars . " quasars originally meant quasistellar object .	他們稱之為 「 四軸 」 。 原本是 「 四軸星 」 。
which means things that look a bit like stars . but they're not stars .	這意味著看起來有點像星星 。 但它們不是恆星 。
and we know what they are . billions of years ago , and billions of light years away , the material at the center of a galaxy collapsed towards a supermassive black hole .	我們知道數十億年前 , 數十億光年之外 , 銀河系中心的物質倒塌到超大質量的黑洞 。
and then intense magnetic fields directed some of the energy of that gravitational collapse . and some of the matter , back out in the form of tremendous jets which illuminated lobes with the brilliance of i think it's a trillion suns .	接著 , 強烈的磁場引力會崩塌 。 有些物質 , 以巨大的噴射機的形式呈現 , 以照亮額葉的亮度 。 我認為它是一兆個太陽 。
now , the physics of the human brain could hardly be more unlike the physics of such a jet .	現在 , 人類大腦的物理學幾乎不像噴射機的物理學 。
we couldn't survive for an instant in it . language breaks down when trying to describe what it would be like in one of those jets .	我們不能在它的瞬間存活 。 語言在描述其中一個噴射器時 , 分解了它會是什麼樣子 。
it would be a bit like experiencing a supernova explosion , but at pointblank range and for millions of years at a time .	這可能有點像經歷超新星爆炸 , 但在時間點和數百萬年間 ,
and yet , that jet happened in precisely such a way that billions of years later , on the other side of the universe , some bit of chemical scum could accurately describe , and model , and predict , and explain , above all there's your reference what was happening there , in reality .	然而 , 那個噴射機在幾十億年後發生 , 在宇宙的另一端 , 一些化學污染可以精確地描述、模型 , 並預測 , 最重要的是 , 在現實中發生了什麼事 。
the one physical system , the brain , contains an accurate working model of the other the quasar .	一個物理系統 , 大腦 , 包含一個精確的運作模式 , 位於四軸 。
not just a superficial image of it , though it contains that as well , but an explanatory model , embodying the same mathematical relationships and the same causal structure .	不僅僅是一個超級富足的圖像 , 雖然它包含了它 , 還包含了一種解釋性的模型 , 包含了同樣的數學關係 , 以及同樣的因果結構 。
now that is knowledge . and if that weren't amazing enough , the faithfulness with which the one structure resembles the other is increasing with time . that is the growth of knowledge .	這就是知識 。 如果這還不夠驚人 , 信仰的信念是隨著時間增加而增長 。 那就是知識的增長 。
so , the laws of physics have this special property .	所以 , 物理定律有特殊的特性 。
that physical objects , as unlike each other as they could possibly be , can nevertheless embody the same mathematical and causal structure and to do it more and more so over time .	實體的物體 , 和它們可能性不同 , 儘管它們能體現同樣的數學和因果結構 , 隨時間而來 , 不斷地複製它 。
so we are a chemical scum that is different . this chemical scum has universality .	我們是不同的化學污垢 , 這種化學污垢有普遍性的 。
its structure contains , with everincreasing precision , the structure of everything . this place , and not other places in the universe , is a hub which contains within itself the structural and causal essence of the whole of the rest of physical reality . and so , far from being insignificant , the fact that the laws of physics allow this , or even mandate that this can happen , is one of the most important things about the physical world .	它的結構包含著越來越精確的狀態 , 所有事物的結構 。 這個地方 , 不是宇宙中的其他地方 , 而是一個樞紐 , 內在的結構和因果實的本質 。 到目前為止 , 物理定律允許它發生 , 甚至強調它是物理世界最重要的東西之一 。
now how does the solar system and our environment , in the form of us acquire this special relationship with the rest of the universe ?	太陽系和我們的環境是如何在我們和其它宇宙的特殊關係中取得這種特殊的關係 ?
well , one thing that's true about stephen hawking's remark i mean , it is true , but it's the wrong emphasis . one thing that's true about it is that it doesn't do it with any special physics . there's no special dispensation , no miracles involved . it does it simply with three things that we have here in abundance .	嗯 , 史蒂芬•霍金的標誌有一點是正確的 , 但這是錯誤的強調 。 其中一個事實是 , 沒有任何特殊的物理學 。 沒有奇蹟 。 它只用我們在這裡的三件事情 。
one of them is matter , because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing . information processing is computation , computation requires a computer there's no known way of making a computer without matter .	其中一個是很重要的 , 因為知識的增長是一種資訊處理 。 資訊處理是計算 , 計算需要一個電腦 , 不知道如何製造出無物質的電腦 。
we also need energy to make the computer , and most important , to make the media in effect onto which we record the knowledge that we discover .	我們也需要能量來製造電腦 , 最重要的是 , 讓媒體能影響我們所發現的知識 。
and then thirdly , less tangible , but just as essential for the openended creation of knowledge , of explanations , is evidence .	第三 , 更不可能 , 但對於開放式的知識、解釋的開放創造 , 是證據 。
now , our environment is inundated with evidence .	我們的環境被證據淹沒了 。
we happen to get round to testing , let's say , newton's law of gravity about 300 years ago .	例如 , 牛頓的重力定律大約300年前 。
but the evidence that we used to do that was falling down on every square meter of the earth for billions of years before that , and will continue to fall on for billions of years afterwards . and the same is true for all the other sciences .	但我們過去所做的證據 , 是在地球上數十億年前 , 每平方公尺下降 , 數十億年後會持續下降 。 其他的科學也是如此 。
as far as we know , evidence to discover the most fundamental truths of all the sciences is here just for the taking on our planet .	據我們所知 , 發現所有科學中最基本的真相 , 只是為了取得地球 。
our location is saturated with evidence , and also with matter and energy .	我們的地點充滿了證據 , 還有物質和能量 。
out in intergalactic space , those three prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge are at their lowest possible supply .	在星系間的空間中 , 開放式知識的三個先例是他們最低的可能供給量 。
as i said , it's empty ; it's cold ; and it's dark out there . or is it ?	如我所說的 , 它是空的 ; 它很冷 , 那裡是黑暗的 。 還是 ?
now actually , that's just another parochial misconception .	其實 , 這只是另一個假釋誤解 。
because imagine a cube out there in intergalactic space , the same size as our home , the solar system . now that cube is very empty by human standards , but that still means that it contains over a million tons of matter .	因為想像一個立方體在星系空間中 , 和我們家的大小一樣 , 太陽系 。 現在這個立方體是非常空的 , 但這仍然意味著它含有超過一百萬噸的物質 。
and a million tons is enough to make , say , a selfcontained space station , on which there's a colony of scientists that are devoted to creating an openended stream of knowledge , and so on .	一百萬噸足以製造 , 例如 , 一個自我控制的太空站 , 在那裡有一群科學家 , 投入創造一個開放式的知識流 , 諸如此類 。
now , it's way beyond present technology to even gather the hydrogen from intergalactic space and form it into other elements and so on .	現在 , 除了現在的科技之外 , 甚至從星系空間收集氫氣 , 將它變成其他元素等等 。
but the thing is , in a comprehensible universe , if something isn't forbidden by the laws of physics , then what could possibly prevent us from doing it , other than knowing how ?	但重點是 , 在一個可理解的宇宙中 , 如果物理定律沒有被禁止 , 那麼 , 什麼可能阻止我們做這件事 , 除了知道如何 ?
in other words , it's a matter of knowledge , not resources .	換句話說 , 這是知識的問題 , 而不是資源 。
and the same well , if we could do that we'd automatically have an energy supply , because the transmutation would be a fusion reactor and evidence ?	同樣的 , 如果我們能自動產生能量供應 , 因為轉變會是核融合反應爐和證據 ?
well , again , it's dark out there to human senses . but all you've got to do is take a telescope , even one of presentday design , look out and you'll see the same galaxies as we do from here .	同樣的 , 外面是黑暗的 。 但你只需要用望遠鏡 , 甚至是現今的設計 , 看看外面 , 你會看到我們從這裡看到的同一個星系 。
and with a more powerful telescope , you'll be able to see stars , and planets .	有了更強大的望遠鏡 , 你可以看見恆星和行星 。
in those galaxies , you'll be able to do astrophysics , and learn the laws of physics .	在這些星系中 , 你可以做天體物理學 , 並學習物理定律 。
and locally there you could build particle accelerators , and learn elementary particle physics , and chemistry , and so on .	在當地 , 你可以建造粒子加速器 , 學習基本粒子物理 , 化學等等 。
probably the hardest science to do would be biology field trips because it would take several hundred million years to get to the nearest lifebearing planet and back .	可能最困難的科學是生物學實地旅行 , 因為要花數億年才能到最近的生命中 , 回到最近的星球 。
but i have to tell you and sorry , richard but i never did like biology field trips much , and i think we can just about make do with one every few hundred million years .	但我得告訴各位 , 抱歉 , 理查 , 但我從來沒有很喜歡生物學領域的旅程 , 我認為我們可以每隔幾億年做一次 。
so in fact , intergalactic space does contain all the prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge . any such cube , anywhere in the universe , could become the same kind of hub that we are , if the knowledge of how to do so were present there .	事實上 , 星系間的空間包含了所有開放式的知識 。 任何一個立方體 , 宇宙中任何一個地方 , 都可能變成同一個樞紐 , 如果我們知道該怎麼做的話 。
so we're not in a uniquely hospitable place .	所以 , 我們不是處在一個獨特的宿主地方 。
if intergalactic space is capable of creating an openended stream of explanations , then so is almost every other environment . so is the earth . so is a polluted earth .	如果星系空間能夠創造出一個開放式的解釋流 , 那麼幾乎所有其他的環境 。 所以 , 地球是污染的地球 。
and the limiting factor , there and here , is not resources , because they're plentiful , but knowledge , which is scarce .	而有限的因素 , 在這裡 , 不是資源 , 因為它們很豐富 , 但知識卻很稀少 。
now this cosmic knowledgebased view may and i think ought to make us feel very special . but it should also make us feel vulnerable , because it means that without the specific knowledge that's needed to survive the ongoing challenges of the universe , we won't survive them .	這種以宇宙為基礎的知識觀點 , 我認為應該讓我們感覺非常特別 。 但這也應該讓我們覺得脆弱 , 因為這意味著 , 若沒有需要存活在宇宙中不斷的挑戰 , 我們就不會存活下來 。
all it takes is for a supernova to go off a few light years away , and we'll all be dead !	只需要一顆超新星才能離開幾光年 , 我們都死了 !
martin rees has recently written a book about our vulnerability to all sorts of things , from astrophysics , to scientific experiments gone wrong , and most importantly to terrorism with weapons of mass destruction .	馬丁•雷斯最近寫了一本關於我們對各種事物的脆弱性書 , 從天體物理學 , 到科學實驗都出了問題 , 最重要的是 , 用大規模毀滅的武器來恐怖主義 。
and he thinks that civilization has only a 50 percent chance of surviving this century .	他認為文明只有50%的機會能在這個世紀存活下來 。
i think he's going to talk about that later in the conference .	我想他晚點要在會議上談談談 。
now i don't think that probability is the right category to discuss this issue in .	我不認為機率是正確的分類來討論這個議題 。
but i do agree with him about this . we can survive , and we can fail to survive .	但我同意他這件事 , 我們可以存活下來 , 我們也無法存活下來 。
but it depends not on chance , but on whether we create the relevant knowledge in time .	但這並不取決於偶然 , 不論我們是否在時間創造相關的知識 。
the danger is not at all unprecedented . species go extinct all the time .	沒有史無前例的危險 , 物種總是滅絕 。
civilizations end . the overwhelming majority of all species and all civilizations that have ever existed are now history .	文明終結了 。 絕大多數物種和所有已存在的文明都是歷史 。
and if we want to be the exception to that , then logically our only hope is to make use of the one feature that distinguishes our species , and our civilization , from all the others namely , our special relationship with the laws of physics , our ability to create new explanations , new knowledge to be a hub of existence .	如果我們想成為例外 , 那麼邏輯上 , 我們唯一的希望就是用一種特徵來區別我們的物種 , 和我們的文明 , 即便是我們與物理定律的特殊關係 , 我們創造出新的解釋 , 新知識成為存在的中心 。
so let me now apply this to a current controversy , not because i want to advocate any particular solution , but just to illustrate the kind of thing i mean .	讓我把這個應用到當前的爭議上 , 並不是因為我想要提倡任何特定的解決方案 , 而是為了說明我的意思 。
and the controversy is global warming .	爭議是全球暖化 。
now , i'm a physicist , but i'm not the right kind of physicist . in regard to global warming , i'm just a layman . and the rational thing for a layman to do is to take seriously the prevailing scientific theory . and according to that theory , it's already too late to avoid a disaster .	我是物理學家 , 但是我不是正確的物理學家 。 在全球暖化上 , 我只是一名懶惰人 。 而理性的事情是認真考慮前的科學理論 。 根據這個理論 , 已經太遲了要避免一個災難 。
because if it's true that our best option at the moment is to prevent co2 emissions with something like the kyoto protocol , with its constraints on economic activity and its enormous cost of hundreds of billions of dollars or whatever it is , then that is already a disaster by any reasonable measure .	因為如果我們目前最好的選擇是預防二氧化碳排放 , 例如京都議定書 , 其經濟活動的限制 , 以及它數百億美元或其他的費用 , 那已經是不合理的測量 。
and the actions that are advocated are not even purported to solve the problem , merely to postpone it by a little . so it's already too late to avoid it , and it probably has been too late to avoid it ever since before anyone realized the danger .	倡導者的行動 , 甚至還沒被求助來解決這個問題 , 僅僅僅只是稍微稍稍稍做後的 。 所以 , 太遲了 , 它可能已經太遲了 , 以至於任何人意識到危險之前 , 都太晚了 。
it was probably already too late in the 1970s , when the best available scientific theory was telling us that industrial emissions were about to precipitate a new ice age in which billions would die .	在1970年代可能已經太晚了 , 當時最好的科學理論告訴我們 , 工業排放將要降低數十億人的新冰河年齡 。
now the lesson of that seems clear to me , and i don't know why it isn't informing public debate .	對我來說 , 這教訓似乎很清楚 , 我不知道為什麼沒有公開辯論 。
it is that we can't always know . when we know of an impending disaster , and how to solve it at a cost less than the cost of the disaster itself , then there's not going to be much argument , really .	我們不能永遠知道 。 當我們知道即將發生災難時 , 以及如何在災難本身的成本低於災難本身的成本 , 那麼真的不會有太多的爭論 。
but no precautions , and no precautionary principle , can avoid problems that we do not yet foresee .	但沒有預防措施 , 也沒有預防原則 , 可以避免我們還沒預料到的問題 。
hence , we need a stance of problemfixing , not just problemavoidance .	因此 , 我們需要一個固定的問題 , 不只是問題性 。
and it's true that an ounce of prevention equals a pound of cure , but that's only if we know what to prevent .	的確 , 一大堆預防等同於一磅解藥 , 但只有在我們知道如何預防 。
if you've been punched on the nose , then the science of medicine does not consist of teaching you how to avoid punches .	如果你被擊中鼻子 , 那麼醫學的科學並不包含教你如何避免穿刺 。
if medical science stopped seeking cures and concentrated on prevention only , then it would achieve very little of either .	如果醫學界停止尋求治癒和專注於預防 , 那它也幾乎沒有成就 。
the world is buzzing at the moment with plans to force reductions in gas emissions at all costs .	目前世界正在興起 , 計畫會強迫減少氣體排放的排放量 。
it ought to be buzzing with plans to reduce the temperature , and with plans to live at the higher temperature and not at all costs , but efficiently and cheaply . and some such plans exist , things like swarms of mirrors in space to deflect the sunlight away , and encouraging aquatic organisms to eat more carbon dioxide .	它應該要被計劃降低溫度 , 並且計劃在更高的溫度上生活 , 不用花費任何成本 , 而是有效率且便宜的 。 有些計畫存在 , 例如在太空中大量的鏡子 , 以反射陽光 , 並且鼓勵水生有機體吃更多的二氧化碳 。
at the moment , these things are fringe research .	目前 , 這些東西正在進行調查 。
they're not central to the human effort to face this problem , or problems in general .	他們不是人類努力面對這個問題的核心 , 或一般的問題 。
and with problems that we are not aware of yet , the ability to put right not the sheer good luck of avoiding indefinitely is our only hope , not just of solving problems , but of survival .	我們還沒意識到問題 , 要解決的能力 , 不是無限可能避免的好運 , 是我們唯一的希望 , 不只是解決問題 , 而是為了生存 。
so take two stone tablets , and carve on them .	拿兩個石桌來雕刻 。
on one of them , carve: " problems are soluble . "	其中一個 , 卡維爾: 「 問題很容易解決 。 」
and on the other one carve: " problems are inevitable . "	另外一個是: 「 問題是不可避免的 。 」
how can a struggling country break out of poverty if it's trapped in a system of bad rules ? economist paul romer unveils a bold idea: " charter cities , " cityscale administrative zones governed by a coalition of nations .	如果它被困在一個不好的規則系統中 , 一個掙扎的國家要如何破除貧窮 ? 經濟學家保羅•羅默揭開了一個大膽的想法: 「 查爾斯城市 」 、 「 城市規模的行政區 」 , 由國家聯盟統治 。
business , culture , economics , global issues , politics	商業、文化、經濟、全球議題、政治、
paul romer's radical idea: charter cities	保羅羅羅•羅默的激進想法: 「 特區城市城市 」 。
take a look at this picture .	看看這張照片 。
it poses a very fascinating puzzle for us .	它對我們來說是非常有趣的謎題 。
these african students are doing their homework under streetlights at the airport in the capital city because they don't have any electricity at home .	這些非洲學生在首都機場的路燈下做功課 , 因為他們家裡沒有電力 。
now , i haven't met these particular students , but i've met students like them .	我還沒見過這些特別的學生 , 但我見過像他們這樣的學生 。
let's just pick one for example , the one in the green shirt .	舉例來說 , 綠色襯衫的那個 。
let's give him a name , too: nelson .	我們也給他一個名字:nelson 。
i'll bet nelson has a cellphone .	我打賭nelson有手機 。
so here is the puzzle .	這就是謎題 。
why is it that nelson has access to a cuttingedge technology , like the cellphone , but doesn't have access to a 100yearold technology for generating electric light in the home ?	為什麼nelson可以接觸到最先進的科技 , 像手機 , 但在家裡沒有辦法使用一百歲的科技來發電燈 ?
now , in a word , the answer is " rules . "	簡單來說 , 答案是 「 規則 」 。
bad rules can prevent the kind of winwin solution that's available when people can bring new technologies in and make them available to someone like nelson .	不好的規則可以防止這種雙贏的解決方案 , 當人們可以把新的科技帶入像尼爾森這樣的人身上 , 讓他們可以使用 。
what kinds of rules ?	什麼樣的規則 ?
the electric company in this nation operates under a rule , which says that it has to sell electricity at a very low , subsidized price in fact , a price that is so low it loses money on every unit that it sells .	這個國家的電力公司在一個規則下運作 , 說它必須在低、補貼的價格上販賣電力 , 事實上 , 價格非常低 , 每一單位銷售的每一單位都輸了錢 。
so it has neither the resources , nor the incentives , to hook up many other users .	所以 , 它沒有資源 , 也沒有動機 , 要補充許多其他使用者 。
the president wanted to change this rule .	總統想改變這個規則 。
he's seen that it's possible to have a different set of rules , rules where businesses earn a small profit , so they have an incentive to sign up more customers .	他見識到有不同的規則 , 企業賺得很小的利潤 , 所以他們有動機來簽更多客戶 。
that's the kind of rules that the cellphone company that nelson purchases his telephony from operates under .	那是尼爾森的手機公司的規則 , 把他的電信用在運作之下 。
the president has seen how those rules worked well .	總統看過這些規則如何運作良好 。
so he tried to change the rules for pricing on electricity , but ran into a firestorm of protest from businesses and consumers who wanted to preserve the existing subsidized rates .	所以他試著改變電力價格的規則 , 但他跑到企業和消費者的抗議運動中 , 他們想要保存現有的補貼率 。
so he was stuck with rules that prevented him from letting the winwin solution help his country .	所以他被卡住了規則 , 阻止他讓雙贏的解決方案能幫助他的國家 。
and nelson is stuck studying under the streetlights .	納爾遜在街燈下進行研究 。
the real challenge then , is to try to figure out how we can change rules .	真正的挑戰是要想辦法改變規則 。
are there some rules we can develop for changing rules ?	有沒有一些規則可以用來改變規則 ?
i want to argue that there is a general abstract insight that we can make practical , which is that , if we can give more choices to people , and more choices to leaders who , in many countries , are also people .	我想主張 , 有一個一般的抽象觀點 , 是我們能實踐的 , 那就是 , 如果我們能給更多人更多選擇 , 更多選擇給在許多國家的領導者 , 也是人 。
but , it's useful to present the opposition between these two .	但這兩者之間的反對是有用的 。
because the kind of choice you might want to give to a leader , a choice like giving the president the choice to raise prices on electricity , takes away a choice that people in the economy want .	因為你可能會想給領袖這種選擇 , 像是給總統選擇在電力上提高價格的選擇 , 奪走經濟想要的選擇 。
they want the choice to be able to continue consuming subsidized electric power .	他們希望能選擇繼續消耗補貼式電力 。
so if you give just to one side or the other , you'll have tension or friction .	所以如果你只給一邊或另一邊 , 你會有張力或摩擦力 。
but if we can find ways to give more choices to both , that will give us a set of rules for changing rules that get us out of traps .	但如果我們能找到方法讓兩者都能做出更多選擇 , 那就能給我們一套改變規則 , 來讓我們脫離陷阱的規則 。
now , nelson also has access to the internet .	尼爾森也能取得網路 。
and he says that if you want to see the damaging effects of rules , the ways that rules can keep people in the dark , look at the pictures from nasa of the earth at night .	他說 , 如果你想看到規則的破壞效應 , 規則會讓人們在黑暗中 , 看著地球的照片 。
in particular check out asia .	特別是在亞洲 。
if you zoom in here , you can see north korea , in outline here , which is like a black hole compared to its neighbors .	如果你放大來看 , 你可以看到北韓 , 在線上 , 這就像是與鄰居相比的黑洞 。
now , you won't be surprised to learn that the rules in north korea keep people there in the dark .	現在 , 你不會驚訝地發現北韓的規則讓人們處於黑暗之中 。
but it is important to recognize that north korea and south korea started out with identical sets of rules in both the sense of laws and regulations , but also in the deeper senses of understandings , norms , culture , values and beliefs .	但 , 很重要的是 , 北韓和南韓始於法律和法規的相同規則 , 同時也在更深層的理解、規範、文化、價值觀和信仰 。
when they separated , they made choices that led to very divergent paths for their sets of rules .	當他們分開時 , 他們做出選擇 , 導致他們一組規則中非常多元的路徑 。
so we can change we as humans can change the rules that we use to interact with each other , for better , or for worse .	所以 , 我們可以改變我們身為人類可以改變我們用來互相互動的規則 , 更好 , 更糟的是 。
now let's look at another region , the caribbean .	現在我們來看看另一個地區 , 加勒比海 。
zoom in on haiti , in outline here .	放大海地 , 這裡是線上的 。
haiti is also dark , compared to its neighbor here , the dominican republic , which has about the same number of residents .	海地也是黑暗的 , 與其鄰居相比 , 多明尼加共和國有相同數量的居民 。
both of these countries are dark compared to puerto rico , which has half as many residents as either haiti or the dominican republic .	這兩個國家都和波多黎各相比 , 那裡有一半的居民是海地或多明尼加共和國 。
what haiti warns us is that rules can be bad because governments are weak .	海地警告我們 , 規則可能很糟 , 因為政府很弱 。
it's not just that the rules are bad because the government is too strong and oppressive , as in north korea .	不只是規則很糟 , 因為政府太強大、太壓迫 , 和北韓一樣 。
so that if we want to create environments with good rules , we can't just tear down .	所以 , 如果我們想要創造出有好規則的環境 , 我們就不能把環境撕下來 。
we've got to find ways to build up , as well .	我們也需要找到建立起的方法 。
now , china dramatically demonstrates both the potential and the challenges of working with rules .	如今 , 中國大幅展現出與規則合作的潛力和挑戰 。
back in the beginning of the data presented in this chart , china was the world's hightechnology leader .	回到這個圖表的開端 , 中國是世界上高科技領袖 。
chinese had pioneered technologies like steel , printing , gunpowder .	中國的先驅技術如鋼鐵、列印、槍枝 。
but the chinese never adopted , at least in that period , effective rules for encouraging the spread of those ideas a profit motive that could have encouraged the spread .	但中國從來沒有採用過 , 至少在那個時期 , 有效的規則 , 鼓勵這些想法的散播 , 能鼓勵傳播出去的利潤動機 。
and they soon adopted rules which slowed down innovation and cut china off from the rest of the world .	他們很快就採用了一些規則 , 減緩了創新 , 把中國從世界各地砍掉 。
so as other countries in the world innovated , in the sense both of developing newer technologies , but also developing newer rules , the chinese were cut off from those advances .	所以 , 隨著世界上其他國家創新 , 在發展新科技的同時 , 同時也發展出新的規則 , 中國人從這些進步中切斷 。
income there stayed stagnant , as it zoomed ahead in the rest of the world .	收入一直停滯不前 , 因為它在世界其他地方縮小了 。
this next chart looks at more recent data .	接下來的圖表是比較近期的數據 。
it plots income , average income in china as a percentage of average income in the united states .	在中國 , 平均收入是美國平均收入的百分比 。
in the '50s and '60s you can see that it was hovering at about three percent .	在1950和60年代 , 你們可以看到 , 大約佔了百分之三 。
but then in the late '70s something changed .	但在70年代末期 , 發生了改變 。
growth took off in china . the chinese started catching up very quickly with the united states .	中國的經濟成長很快就開始趕上美國
if you go back to the map at night , you can get a clue to the process that lead to the dramatic change in rules in china .	如果你在晚上回到地圖上 , 你就能得到一個線索 , 引導中國規則的巨大改變 。
the brightest spot in china , which you can see on the edge of the outline here , is hong kong .	中國最明亮的地點 , 你可以看到在線上最亮的地方 , 是香港 。
hong kong was a small bit of china that , for most of the 20th century , operated under a very different set of rules than the rest of mainland china rules that were copied from working market economies of the time , and administered by the british .	香港是中國的一小部分 , 在20世紀 , 大部分的中國 , 都被一套非常不一樣的規則所操作 , 和中國其他地方的規則 , 都是由當時的市場經濟所複製 , 並由英國負責 。
in the 1950s , hong kong was a place where millions of people could go , from the mainland , to start in jobs like sewing shirts , making toys .	在1950年代 , 香港是一個有數百萬人可以去的地方 , 從大陸開始 , 像縫製衣服 , 製作玩具的地方 。
but , to get on a process of increasing income , increasing skills led to very rapid growth there .	但 , 為了達到越來越多收入的過程 , 增加技能 , 導致在那裡快速成長 。
hong kong was also the model which leaders like deng xiaoping could copy , when they decided to move all of the mainland towards the market model .	香港也是那種領導者 , 如傑出xiaoping可以複製的模式 , 當他們決定把整個大陸搬到市場模式上 。
but deng xiaoping instinctively understood the importance of offering choices to his people .	但註冊xia選手直覺地明白提供給他的人民選擇的重要性 。
so instead of forcing everyone in china to shift immediately to the market model , they proceeded by creating some special zones that could do , in a sense , what britain did: make the opportunity to go work with the market rules available to the people who wanted to opt in there .	所以 , 與其要求中國的每個人立即轉移到市場模式 , 他們透過創造一些特殊的區域 , 在某種意義上 , 英國的做法是:讓這個機會和市場規則合作 , 讓那些想要在裡面採取行動的人 。
so they created four special economic zones around hong kong: zones where chinese could come and work , and cities grew up very rapidly there ; also zones where foreign firms could come in and make things .	所以他們在香港附近創造了四個經濟特區:中國人可以來到那裡工作 , 城市成長得非常迅速 ; 外國公司也能進來製造東西 。
one of the zones next to hong kong has a city called shenzhen .	香港旁邊的一個區塊有個叫做雪梨的城市 。
in that city there is a taiwanese firm that made the iphone that many of you have , and they made it with labor from chinese who moved there to shenzhen .	在那個城市 , 有台灣公司 , 讓許多人都擁有的iphone , 他們用中國的勞工來製作 。
so after the four special zones , there were 14 coastal cites that were open in the same sense , and eventually demonstrated successes in these places that people could opt in to , that they flocked to because of the advantages they offered .	在四個特區之後 , 有十四個海岸線也同樣開放 , 最終 , 在這些地方 , 人們可以選擇的成功 , 他們會被鎖住 , 因為他們提供的優勢 。
demonstrated successes there led to a consensus for a move toward the market model for the entire economy .	證實了成功 , 導致了整個經濟模式的共識 。
now the chinese example shows us several points .	中國的例子顯示了幾點 。
one is: preserve choices for people .	第一:為人保存選擇 。
two: operate on the right scale .	第二:在正確的比例上運作 。
if you try to change the rules in a village , you could do that , but a village would be too small to get the kinds of benefits you can get if you have millions of people all working under good rules .	如果你試著改變村子裡的規則 , 你可以這樣做 , 但村落會太小 , 如果有數百萬人在好的規則下工作 , 就能得到你能得到的益處 。
on the other hand , the nation is too big .	另一方面 , 國家太大了 。
if you try to change the rules in the nation , you can't give some people a chance to hold back , see how things turn out , and let others zoom ahead and try the new rules .	如果你試著改變國家的規則 , 你就不能給別人一個機會 , 看看事情是怎麼發生的 , 讓其他人放大 , 嘗試新的規則 。
but cities give you this opportunity to create new places , with new rules that people can opt in to .	但城市給你這個機會 , 創造出新的地方 , 新的規則 , 讓人們可以選擇 。
and they're large enough to get all of the benefits that we can have when millions of us work together under good rules .	它們夠大 , 可以得到我們能擁有的所有好處 , 只要我們在好的規則下合作 , 我們就能得到好處 。
so the proposal is that we conceive of something called a charter city .	所以 , 我們的建議是 , 一個叫做 「 查爾斯城市 」 的東西 。
we start with a charter that specifies all the rules required to attract the people who we'll need to build the city .	我們從一個特定規則開始 , 來吸引我們建造城市的人 。
we'll need to attract the investors who will build out the infrastructure the power system , the roads , the port , the airport , the buildings .	我們需要吸引投資者 , 他們會建立基礎建設系統、道路、港口、機場、建築物 。
you'll need to attract firms , who will come hire the people who move there first .	你需要吸引公司 , 他們會僱用先前搬到那裡的人 。
and you'll need to attract families , the residents who will come and live there permanently , raise their children , get an education for their children , and get their first job .	你需要吸引家庭 , 居民會永久住在那裡 , 養育他們的孩子 , 為他們的孩子取得教育 , 得到第一份工作 。
with that charter , people will move there .	有了這個章節 , 人們會搬到那裡 。
the city can be built .	城市可以被建造出來 。
and we can scale this model .	我們可以擴展這個模型 。
we can go do it over and over again .	我們可以一遍又一遍 。
to make it work , we need good rules . we've already discussed that .	要成功 , 我們需要好的規則 。 我們已經討論過了 。
those are captured in the charter .	這些都被收集在圖表裡 。
we also need the choices for people .	我們也需要人們的選擇 。
that's really built into the model if we allow for the possibility of building cities on uninhabited land .	這真的是建立在模型中 , 如果我們能在無人居住的土地上建造城市的可能性 。
you start from uninhabited territory .	你從未居住的領域開始 。
people can come live under the new charter , but no one is forced to live under it .	人們可以生活在新的憲章之下 , 但沒有人被迫住在它下面 。
the final thing we need are choices for leaders .	最後 , 我們需要的是對領導者的選擇 。
and , to achieve the kind of choices we want for leaders we need to allow for the potential for partnerships between nations: cases where nations work together , in effect , de facto , the way china and britain worked together to build , first a little enclave of the market model , and then scale it throughout china .	為了達成我們想要的那種選擇 , 我們需要讓國家之間的合作潛力:國家合作的可能性 , 實際上 , 中國和英國合作的方式 , 首先是市場模式的一小塊奴隸 , 然後擴展到全中國 。
in a sense , britain , inadvertently , through its actions in hong kong , did more to reduce world poverty than all the aid programs that we've undertaken in the last century .	在某種意義上 , 英國 , 不經意地 , 透過香港的行動 , 降低世界貧窮 , 比上個世紀所缺乏的愛滋計畫還要多 。
so if we allow for these kind of partnerships to replicate this again , we can get those kinds of benefits scaled throughout the world .	所以如果我們允許這些合作夥伴再次複製 , 我們就能得到全世界各地的好處 。
in some cases this will involve a delegation of responsibility , a delegation of control from one country to another to take over certain kinds of administrative responsibilities .	在某些情況下 , 這會涉及到責任 , 一個國家的控制權 , 從一個國家 , 到另一個國家 , 來負責某些行政責任 。
now , when i say that , some of you are starting to think , " well , is this just bringing back colonialism ? "	現在 , 當我這麼說的時候 , 有些人開始想: 「 嗯 , 這是否會帶回殖民主義 ? 」
it's not . but it's important to recognize that the kind of emotions that come up when we start to think about these things , can get in the way , can make us pull back , can shut down our ability , and our interest in trying to explore new ideas .	不是的 。 但很重要的是 , 當我們開始思考這些事情時 , 會有一種情緒 , 可以讓我們退出 , 可以閉嘴 , 並且我們想要探索新點子的興趣 。
why is this not like colonialism ?	為什麼這不像殖民主義 ?
the thing that was bad about colonialism , and the thing which is residually bad in some of our aid programs , is that it involved elements of coercion and condescension .	殖民主義的壞處在於 , 在某些援助計畫中 , 仍然是壞事 , 就是它涉及了強烈和自信的元素 。
this model is all about choices , both for leaders and for the people who will live in these new places .	這個模式是關於選擇 , 無論是為了領導者 , 還是為了住在這些新地方的人 。
and , choice is the antidote to coercion and condescension .	選擇是對強迫和自主的解藥 。
so let's talk about how this could play out in practice .	咱們來談談如何在實踐上演出 。
let's take a particular leader , raul castro , who is the leader of cuba .	讓我們帶一個特定的領導者 , 拉爾卡斯楚 , 他是古巴的領導者 。
it must have occurred to castro that he has the chance to do for cuba what deng xiaoping did for china , but he doesn't have a hong kong there on the island in cuba .	卡斯楚一定有機會為古巴做些什麼 , 但他在古巴的島上沒有香港 。
he does , though , have a little bit of light down in the south that has a very special status .	不過 , 他的確在南方有一點點光 , 有很特別的地位 。
there is a zone there , around guantanamo bay , where a treaty gives the united states administrative responsibility for a piece of land that's about twice the size of manhattan .	這裡有一區 , 位於瓜地亞摩灣 , 在那裡 , 一塊美國政府為一塊土地負責 , 大約是曼哈頓的兩倍 。
castro goes to the prime minister of canada and says , " look , the yankees have a terrible pr problem .	卡斯tro去加拿大總理 , 說: 「 聽著 , yankees有一個糟糕的pr問題 。
they want to get out .	他們想要出去 。
why don't you , canada , take over ?	為什麼你不 , 加拿大 ?
build run a special administrative zone .	建造一個特殊的行政區 。
allow a new city to be built up there .	讓一個新的城市在那裡建造 。
allow many people to come in .	讓許多人進來 。
let us have a hong kong nearby .	讓我們在附近有個香港 。
some of my citizens will move into that city as well .	我的一些市民也會搬進那個城市 。
others will hold back . but this will be the gateway that will connect the modern economy and the modern world to my country . "	其他人會保持住 。 但這將會是將現代經濟和現代世界連結到我的國家的通道 。 」
now , where else might this model be tried ?	現在 , 這個模型還在哪裡呢 ?
well , africa . i've talked with leaders in africa .	嗯 , 非洲 , 我和非洲的領導人談過 。
many of them totally get the notion of a special zone that people can opt into as a rule .	許多人完全得到了一種特殊區塊的概念 , 讓人們可以當作一個規則 。
it's a rule for changing rules .	它是一種改變規則的規則 。
it's a way to create new rules , and let people optin without coercion , and the opposition that coercion can force .	它是一種創造新規則的方式 , 讓人們不用強烈的力量 , 和強迫的反對 。
they also totally get the idea that in some instances they can make more credible promises to longterm investors the kind of investors who will come build the port , build the roads , in a new city they can make more credible promises if they do it along with a partner nation .	他們也完全了解 , 在某些情況下 , 他們可以做出更可信的承諾 , 給長期投資者 , 來建造港口、建造道路 , 在新城市中 , 他們可以做出更可信的承諾 , 如果他們與另一方國家合作 , 就能做出更好的承諾 。
perhaps even in some arrangement that's a little bit like an escrow account , where you put land in the escrow account and the partner nation takes responsibility for it .	甚至在某些安排中 , 有點像偷渡帳戶 , 在那裡 , 你把土地放進人工帳戶中 , 另一方國家為此負責 。
there is also lots of land in africa where new cities could be built .	在非洲也有許多土地 , 可以建造新的城市 。
this is a picture i took when i was flying along the coast .	這是我在海岸飛行時拍的照片 。
there are immense stretches of land like this land where hundreds of millions of people could live .	像這片土地上有巨大的延伸區 , 在那裡 , 數以億計的人可以活下來 。
now , if we generalize this and think about not just one or two charter cites , but dozens cities that will help create places for the many hundreds of millions , perhaps billions of people who will move to cities in the coming century is there enough land for them ?	現在 , 如果我們將這點歸納並不僅僅是一、兩張圖片 , 而是數十個城市 , 可以為數十億的城市創造空間 , 也許數十億人會搬到未來世紀的城市 , 是否有足夠的土地 ?
well , throughout the world , if we look at the lights at night , the one thing that's misleading is that , visually , it looks like most of the world is already built out .	在世界各地 , 如果我們在晚上看著燈光 , 誤導的一件事是 , 視覺上來說 , 大部分的世界已經被建造出來了 。
so let me show you why that's wrong .	所以 , 讓我告訴你為什麼那是錯的 。
take this representation of all of the land .	以所有土地的代表為例 。
turn it into a square that stands for all the arable land on earth .	把它變成一個正方形 , 代表著地球上所有可耕地 。
and let these dots represent the land that's already taken up by the cities that three billion people now live in .	讓這些點代表已經被30億人口居住的城市所佔據的土地 。
if you move the dots down to the bottom of the rectangle you can see that the cities for the existing three billion urban residents take up only three percent of the arable land on earth .	如果你把這些點移到矩形的底部你可以看到現有30億個城市居民只佔地球上30%的可耕地
so if we wanted to build cities for another billion people , they would be dots like this .	所以如果我們想為其他十億人建造城市 , 他們就會像這樣 。
we'd go from three percent of the arable land , to four percent .	我們從三分之三的可耕地 , 到四分之一 。
we'd dramatically reduce the human footprint on earth by building more cities that people can move to .	我們會大幅降低地球上的人類足跡 , 藉由建造更多人們可以移動的城市 。
and if these are cities governed by good rules , they can be cities where people are safe from crime , safe from disease and bad sanitation , where people have a chance to get a job .	如果這些城市被好的規則管理 , 他們可能會成為城市 , 人們安全地從犯罪、疾病和不良衛生 , 在那裡 , 人們有機會得到工作 。
they can get basic utilities like electricity .	它們能得到像電力這樣的基本設施 。
their kids can get an education .	他們的孩子可以接受教育 。
so what will it take to get started building the first charter cities , scaling this so we build many more ?	所以 , 要花什麼才能開始建立第一座章節城市 , 這樣我們才能建立更多 ?
it would help to have a manual .	可以幫忙做手冊 。
what university professors could do is write some details that might go into this manual .	大學教授可以做的是寫一些細節 , 可以寫進這個手冊中 。
you wouldn't want to let us run the cities , go out and design them .	你不想讓我們跑城市 , 出去設計它們 。
you wouldn't let academics out in the wild .	你不會在野外放棄學術 。
but , you could set us to work thinking about questions like , suppose it isn't just canada that does the deal with raul castro .	但 , 你可以讓我們開始思考像這樣的問題 , 假設這不只是加拿大對抗拉爾卡斯楚 。
perhaps brazil comes in as a participant , and spain as well . and perhaps cuba wants to be one of the partners in a fourway joint venture .	或許巴西也有參與者 , 西班牙也想成為四條通路的夥伴之一 。
how would we write the treaty to do that ?	我們要如何寫出條約來做到這一點 ?
there is less precedent for that , but that could easily be worked out .	之前的情況比較少 , 但這很容易就解決 。
how would we finance this ?	我們要如何資助這個 ?
turns out singapore and hong kong are cities that made huge gains on the value of the land that they owned when they got started .	結果發現新加坡和香港是城市 , 讓它們在開始時擁有的土地價值很大 。
you could use the gains on the value of the land to pay for things like the police , the courts , but the school system and the health care system too , which make this a more attractive place to live , makes this a place where people have higher incomes which , incidentally , makes the land more valuable .	你可以利用土地的價值來支付像警察、法庭等的東西 , 但學校和健康照護體制 , 這也讓土地更吸引人居住 , 讓人們擁有較高的收入 , 順帶一提 , 讓土地更有價值 。
so the incentives for the people helping to construct this zone and build it , and set up the basic rules , go very much in the right direction .	所以 , 協助建造這個區域的人們的動機 , 設定基本規則 , 向正確的方向發展 。
so there are many other details like this .	所以還有很多其他的細節 。
how could we have buildings that are low cost and affordable for people who work in a first job , assembling something like an iphone , but make those buildings energy efficient , and make sure that they are safe , so they don't fall down in an earthquake or a hurricane .	我們要如何有低成本和可負擔得起的建築 , 像是iphone , 讓這些建築物更有效率 , 確保它們安全 , 所以它們不會落在地震或颶風中 。
many technical details to be worked out , but those of us who are already starting to pursue these things can already tell that there is no roadblock , there's no impediment , other than a failure of imagination , that will keep us from delivering on a truly global winwin solution .	許多技術上的細節要被發揮出來 , 但我們這些已經開始追求這些事情的人已經知道沒有路障 , 除了想像之外 , 還沒有阻礙 , 還會讓我們不用真正的全球雙贏解決方案 。
let me conclude with this picture .	讓我用這張照片來總結 。
the reason we can be so well off , even though there is so many people on earth , is because of the power of ideas .	我們之所以能如此順利 , 即使地球上有這麼多人 , 是因為想法的力量 。
we can share ideas with other people , and when they discover them , they share with us .	我們可以和其他人分享想法 , 當他們發現他們時 , 他們會和我們分享 。
it's not like scarce objects , where sharing means we each get less .	它不像稀有物品 , 在那裡 , 分享的意思是 , 我們每次都變得比較少 。
when we share ideas we all get more .	當我們分享想法時 , 我們會得到更多 。
when we think about ideas in that way , we usually think about technologies .	當我們用這種方式思考想法時 , 我們通常會想到科技 。
but there is another class of ideas: the rules that govern how we interact with each other ; rules like , let's have a tax system that supports a research university that gives away certain kinds of knowledge for free .	但還有另一類想法:規則我們彼此互動的規則 ; 例如 , 讓我們有一個稅收系統 , 支持研究大學 , 免費提供某些知識 。
let's have a system where we have ownership of land that is registered in a government office , that people can pledge as collateral .	讓我們有一個系統 , 在政府辦公室裡 , 我們有一塊土地的所有權 , 讓人們可以把土地保留成殖民地 。
if we can keep innovating on our space of rules , and particularly innovate in the sense of coming up with rules for changing rules , so we don't get stuck with bad rules , then we can keep moving progress forward and truly make the world a better place , so that people like nelson and his friends don't have to study any longer under the streetlights . thank you .	如果我們能在規則的空間中不斷創新 , 尤其是創新 , 以改變規則 , 這樣我們就不會陷入不好的規則 , 那麼我們才能繼續前進 , 真正讓世界變得更美好 , 像尼爾森和他的朋友 , 不用再在街燈下學習 。 謝謝 。
genomics pioneer craig venter takes a break from his epic roundtheworld expedition to talk about the millions of genes his team has discovered so far in its quest to map the ocean’s biodiversity .	基因先驅craigventer在史詩般的探險中休息 , 談到他的團隊發現了數百萬個基因 , 到目前為止 , 地圖海洋生物多樣性 。
dna , biosphere , biotech , entrepreneur , genetics , invention , oceans , science , technology	dna、生物圈、生物科技、創業家、遺傳學、發明、海洋、科學、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、
craig venter on dna and the sea	克萊格•凡特在dna和海上 。
at the break , i was asked by several people about my comments about the aging debate .	在休息時 , 我被幾個人問到我關於老化辯論的評論 。
and this will be my only comment on it .	這將會是我唯一的評論 。
and that is , i understand that optimists greatly outlive pessimists .	那就是 , 我知道樂觀主義者大大勝過悲觀主義者 。
what i'm going to tell you about in my 18 minutes is how we're about to switch from reading the genetic code to the first stages of beginning to write the code ourselves .	在我十八分鐘內 , 我要告訴各位 , 我們要如何從閱讀基因密碼轉換到開始寫程式的第一階段 。
it's only 10 years ago this month when we published the first sequence of a freeliving organism , that of haemophilus influenzae .	只有10年前這個月 , 我們發表了第一個免疫有機體的序列 , 也就是大氣流感病毒 。
that took a genome project from 13 years down to four months .	這花了13年到4個月的基因組計畫 。
we can now do that same genome project in the order of two to eight hours .	我們現在可以在兩到八個小時內完成同樣的基因組計畫 。
so in the last decade , a large number of genomes have been added: most human pathogens , a couple of plants , several insects and several mammals , including the human genome .	所以 , 在過去的十年中 , 許多基因組被加入了:大部分人類的病原體 , 幾種植物 , 幾種昆蟲和數個哺乳類動物 , 包括人類基因組 。
genomics at this stage of the thinking from a little over 10 years ago was , by the end of this year , we might have between three and five genomes sequenced ; it's on the order of several hundred .	十多年前的思想基因組學在今年底 , 我們可能有三到五個基因組序列 , 正是數百個基因序列 。
we just got a grant from the gordon and betty moore foundation to sequence 130 genomes this year , as a side project from environmental organisms .	我們剛從戈登和貝蒂摩爾基金會得到獎金 , 到今年排序130個基因組 , 作為環保有機體的一邊計畫 。
so the rate of reading the genetic code has changed .	所以閱讀基因密碼的速度已經改變了 。
but as we look , what's out there , we've barely scratched the surface on what is available on this planet .	但當我們看 , 外面的是什麼 , 我們幾乎沒有抓住地球上可用的地表 。
most people don't realize it , because they're invisible , but microbes make up about a half of the earth's biomass , whereas all animals only make up about one onethousandth of all the biomass .	大部分的人不會意識到 , 因為它們是看不見的 , 但微生物佔地球生物量的一半 , 而所有的生物量只佔了大約1/4 。
and maybe it's something that people in oxford don't do very often , but if you ever make it to the sea , and you swallow a mouthful of seawater , keep in mind that each milliliter has about a million bacteria and on the order of 10 million viruses .	也許是牛津的人們不常常做的事 , 但如果你去過海 , 吞下一口海水 , 請記住每一毫升的海水 , 每一毫升都有大約一百萬種細菌和一千萬種病毒 。
less than 5 , 000 microbial species have been characterized as of two years ago , and so we decided to do something about it .	兩年前 , 少於五千種微生物種類就被特徵化了 , 所以我們決定為它做點什麼 。
and we started the sorcerer ii expedition , where we were , as with great oceanographic expeditions , trying to sample the ocean every 200 miles .	我們開始了srcerii探險 , 我們在海洋學探險中 , 每200英哩 , 嘗試採集海洋樣本 。
we started in bermuda for our test project , then moved up to halifax , working down the u . s . east coast , the caribbean sea , the panama canal , through to the galapagos , then across the pacific , and we're in the process now of working our way across the indian ocean .	我們從bermuda開始進行實驗 , 然後搬到哈利法克斯 , 下到美國東岸 , 加勒比海 , 巴拿馬運河 , 穿過加拉巴哥群島 , 橫跨太平洋 , 我們現在正在橫跨印度洋 。
it's very tough duty ; we're doing this on a sailing vessel , in part to help excite young people about going into science .	這很困難 ; 我們在帆船上做這件事 , 有一部分是要協助年輕人進入科學 。
the experiments are incredibly simple .	實驗非常簡單 。
we just take seawater and we filter it , and we collect different size organisms on different filters , and then take their dna back to our lab in rockville , where we can sequence a hundred million letters of the genetic code every 24 hours .	我們只用海水來過濾它 , 我們收集不同過濾器的大小生物 , 然後把它們的dna帶回我們在洛克維爾的實驗室 , 在那裡 , 我們可以每24小時排序一億個基因編碼的字母 。
and with doing this , we've made some amazing discoveries .	藉由這樣做 , 我們發現了一些驚人的發現 。
for example , it was thought that the visual pigments that are in our eyes there was only one or two organisms in the environment that had these same pigments .	例如 , 被認為在我們的眼睛中 , 眼睛中只有一兩種有機體在環境中有同樣的顏料 。
it turns out , almost every species in the upper parts of the ocean in warm parts of the world have these same photoreceptors , and use sunlight as the source of their energy and communication .	結果發現 , 幾乎所有在地球溫暖地區的生物都有相同的攝影器 , 把陽光當作它們的能量和溝通來源 。
from one site , from one barrel of seawater , we discovered 1 . 3 million new genes and as many as 50 , 000 new species .	從一桶海水中 , 我們發現了130萬個新基因 , 還有5萬種新物種 。
we've extended this to the air now with a grant from the sloan foundation .	我們已經將它延伸到空氣中 , 帶著來自史隆基金會的補助 。
we're measuring how many viruses and bacteria all of us are breathing in and out every day , particularly on airplanes or closed auditoriums .	我們在測量我們所有人每天都在呼吸 , 尤其是在飛機或關閉聽器上 。
we filter through some simple apparatuses ; we collect on the order of a billion microbes from just a day filtering on top of a building in new york city .	我們過濾過一些簡單的外觀 ; 我們收集了十億微生物的順序 , 在紐約市的一棟大樓上過濾 。
and we're in the process of sequencing all that at the present time .	我們正處於定序這一切的過程中 。
just on the data collection side , just where we are through the galapagos , we're finding that almost every 200 miles , we see tremendous diversity in the samples in the ocean .	僅僅在收集資料的一邊 , 是我們穿過加拉帕戈斯的位置 , 我們發現幾乎每200英里 , 我們在海洋的樣本中看到了非常多樣性 。
some of these make logical sense , in terms of different temperature gradients .	有些是合理的 , 以不同溫度的角度來說 。
so this is a satellite photograph based on temperatures red being warm , blue being cold and we found there's a tremendous difference between the warm water samples and the cold water samples , in terms of abundant species .	這是一張衛星照片 , 以紅色表示溫度 , 藍色是冷的 , 我們發現溫暖的水樣本和冷水樣本之間有著巨大的差異 。
the other thing that surprised us quite a bit is these photoreceptors detect different wavelengths of light , and we can predict that based on their amino acid sequence .	另一件令我們驚訝的事是這些攝影器偵測到不同波長的光 , 我們可以根據它們的胺基酸序列來預測它 。
and these vary tremendously from region to region .	而這些區域從各個區域到區域都不同 。
maybe not surprisingly , in the deep ocean , where it's mostly blue , the photoreceptors tend to see blue light .	也許不意外地 , 在深海裡 , 大部分是藍色的 , 攝影器通常會看到藍光 。
when there's a lot of chlorophyll around , they see a lot of green light .	當有很多葉綠色的環狀物時 , 它們會看到很多綠色的光 。
but they vary even more , possibly moving towards infrared and ultraviolet in the extremes .	但他們更加不同 , 可能會朝極端的紅外線和紫外線移動 。
just to try and get an assessment of what our gene repertoire was , we assembled all the data including all of ours thus far from the expedition , which represents more than half of all the gene data on the planet and it totaled around 29 million genes .	只是為了找出我們的基因複製品的評估 , 我們組合了所有資料 , 包括我們遠離探險的所有基因資料 , 這代表了地球上超過一半的基因資料 , 總共有大約2900萬個基因 。
and we tried to put these into gene families to see what these discoveries are: are we just discovering new members of known families , or are we discovering new families ?	我們試著把這些基因家庭放進基因中 , 看看這些發現是什麼:我們只是發現已知家庭的新成員 , 還是我們發現新的家庭 ?
and it turns out we have about 50 , 000 major gene families , but every new sample we take in the environment adds in a linear fashion to these new families .	結果發現 , 我們有大約五萬個主要的基因家庭 , 但每個我們在環境中的新樣本都加上線性時尚給這些新家庭 。
so we're at the earliest stages of discovery about basic genes , components and life on this planet .	我們正處於地球上最早的發現關於基本基因、元件和生命的最早階段 。
when we look at the socalled evolutionary tree , we're up on the upper righthand corner with the animals .	當我們看著所謂的演化樹 , 我們和動物的右上角 。
of those roughly 29 million genes , we only have around 24 , 000 in our genome .	其中大約有2900萬個基因 , 我們的基因組只有24 , 000個 。
and if you take all animals together , we probably share less than 30 , 000 and probably maybe a dozen or more thousand different gene families .	如果你把所有的動物集合起來 , 我們大概有不到三萬個 , 也許十幾個以上不同的基因家庭 。
i view that these genes are now not only the design components of evolution .	我覺得這些基因現在不僅是演化的設計元件 。
and we think in a genecentric view maybe going back to richard dawkins' ideas than in a genomecentric view , which are different constructs of these gene components .	我們認為 , 在普通的觀點上 , 或許可以回到理查德•達爾金斯的觀點 , 比起基因組成的觀點 , 這和這些基因組成的不同 。
synthetic dna , the ability to synthesize dna , has changed at sort of the same pace that dna sequencing has over the last decade or two , and is getting very rapid and very cheap .	合成dna , 合成dna的能力在過去十年或二十年間 , 改變了dna定序的速度 , 越來越快、非常便宜 。
our first thought about synthetic genomics came when we sequenced the second genome back in 1995 , and that from mycoplasma genitalium .	我們首先想到合成基因組學在1995年我們將第二種基因組定序然後從菌群生殖器中
and we have really nice tshirts that say , you know , " i heart my genitalium . "	我們有很棒的t恤 , 上面寫著: 「 我愛我的生殖器 。 」
this is actually just a microorganism .	這只是一個微生物 。
but it has roughly 500 genes .	但大約有500個基因 。
haemophilus had 1 , 800 genes .	hemophilus有180個基因
and we simply asked the question , if one species needs 800 , another 500 , is there a smaller set of genes that might comprise a minimal operating system ?	我們簡單地問這個問題 , 如果一個物種需要800種 , 另外500種 , 有一組小組的基因會組成一個最小的操作系統 ?
so we started doing transposon mutagenesis .	所以我們開始進行轉錄突變 。
transposons are just small pieces of dna that randomly insert in the genetic code .	傳播器只是基因編碼中隨機插入的小片段 。
and if they insert in the middle of the gene , they disrupt its function .	如果它們在基因的中間插入 , 它們會破壞它的功能 。
so we made a map of all the genes that could take transposon insertions and we called those " nonessential genes . "	所以我們做了一張地圖 , 所有可以接受轉換插入的基因 , 我們稱之為 「 無遺傳基因 」 。
but it turns out the environment is very critical for this , and you can only define an essential or nonessential gene based on exactly what's in the environment .	但事實證明 , 環境對此非常重要 , 你只能定義一個必要或無必要的基因 , 基於環境的本質 。
we also tried to take a more directly intellectual approach with the genomes of 13 related organisms , and we tried to compare all of those , to see what they had in common .	我們也試著用一個更直接的智力方法和13種相關生物的基因組進行比較 , 我們試著比較所有這些基因 , 看看它們有什麼共同點 。
and we got these overlapping circles . and we found only 173 genes common to all 13 organisms .	我們找到了這些重疊的圓形 。 我們發現 , 只有173個基因和13個有機體共通處 。
the pool expanded a little bit if we ignored one intracellular parasite ; it expanded even more when we looked at core sets of genes of around 310 or so .	如果我們忽略了一個細胞寄生蟲 , 它會擴展到更大的範圍 , 當我們看到大約310歲左右的核心基因組時 。
so we think that we can expand or contract genomes , depending on your point of view here , to maybe 300 to 400 genes from the minimal of 500 .	所以我們認為我們可以擴展或收縮基因組 , 取決於你這裡的觀點 , 到大約500到400個基因 。
the only way to prove these ideas was to construct an artificial chromosome with those genes in them , and we had to do this in a cassettebased fashion .	唯一能證明這些點子的方法是建立一個人造染色體 , 用這些基因組建構出 , 我們必須在一個基礎的時尚做這件事 。
we found that synthesizing accurate dna in large pieces was extremely difficult .	我們發現 , 在大片碎片中合成正確的dna是非常困難的 。
ham smith and clyde hutchison , my colleagues on this , developed an exciting new method that allowed us to synthesize a 5 , 000base pair virus in only a twoweek period that was 100 percent accurate , in terms of its sequence and its biology .	哈姆.史密斯和克萊德•哈特森 , 我同事開發了一種令人興奮的新方法 , 讓我們能在兩週期間合成五千多個鹼基對病毒 , 只有百分之百精確 , 以它的序列和生物學為基礎 。
it was a quite exciting experiment when we just took the synthetic piece of dna , injected it in the bacteria and all of a sudden , that dna started driving the production of the virus particles that turned around and then killed the bacteria .	這是個非常令人興奮的實驗 , 當我們把合成的dna注入細菌中 , 突然間 , dna開始啟動病毒粒子的生產 , 然後殺死細菌 。
this was not the first synthetic virus a polio virus had been made a year before but it was only one tenthousandth as active and it took three years to do .	這不是第一個合成病毒 , 一個小兒麻痺病毒在一年前被製造出來 , 但它只有一萬噸的活性 , 花了三年的時間 。
this is a cartoon of the structure of phi x 174 .	這是phhix174的圖形 。
this is a case where the software now builds its own hardware , and that's the notions that we have with biology .	這是一個軟體現在建立自己的硬體的案例 , 這就是我們對生物學的概念 。
people immediately jump to concerns about biological warfare , and i had recent testimony before a senate committee , and a special committee the u . s . government has set up to review this area .	人們馬上就開始關心生物戰事 , 我最近在參議院委員會之前有證詞 , 和美國政府設立了特殊委員會 , 來審查這個區域 。
and i think it's important to keep reality in mind , versus what happens with people's imaginations .	我認為 , 要讓現實保持在心中是很重要的 , 對抗人們的想像 。
basically , any virus that's been sequenced today that genome can be made .	基本上 , 任何現今已經被定序的病毒 , 基因組就可以完成 。
and people immediately freak out about things about ebola or smallpox , but the dna from this organism is not infective .	人們馬上對伊波拉或天花的事物感到驚訝 , 但這些有機體的dna並沒有感染 。
so even if somebody made the smallpox genome , that dna itself would not cause infections .	所以即使有人做出天花基因組 , dna本身不會造成感染 。
the real concern that security departments have is designer viruses .	真正關心的是安全部門是設計師的病毒 。
and there's only two countries , the u . s . and the former soviet union , that had major efforts on trying to create biological warfare agents .	只有兩個國家 , 美國和前蘇聯 , 試圖創造生物戰的代理 。
if that research is truly discontinued , there should be very little activity on the knowhow to make designer viruses in the future .	如果這項研究真的不停地持續下去 , 將來應該要有非常少的活動才能讓設計師的病毒在未來 。
i think singlecell organisms are possible within two years .	我認為單細胞生物在兩年內可能發生 。
and possibly eukaryotic cells , those that we have , are possible within a decade .	可能是真菌細胞 , 我們這些細胞 , 在十年內就有可能發生 。
so we're now making several dozen different constructs , because we can vary the cassettes and the genes that go into this artificial chromosome .	我們現在製造了數十種不同的構造 , 因為我們可以改變這種人造染色體的類型和基因 。
the key is , how do you put all of the others ?	關鍵在於 , 你要如何把所有其他的東西放進去 ?
we start with these fragments , and then we have a homologous recombination system that reassembles those into a chromosome .	我們從這些碎片開始 , 然後我們有一個同質的重組系統 , 將它們重新組合成染色體 。
this is derived from an organism , deinococcus radiodurans , that can take three million rads of radiation and not be killed .	這是從一個有機體中衍生出來的 , 排斥無線電的無線電生物 , 可以承受三百萬的輻射 , 而不是被殺 。
it reassembles its genome after this radiation burst in about 12 to 24 hours , after its chromosomes are literally blown apart .	在輻射爆發後 , 它會重新組合它的基因體大約12到24小時 , 在它的染色體被拆解之後 。
this organism is ubiquitous on the planet , and exists perhaps now in outer space due to all our travel there .	這種生物在地球上無所不在 , 也許現在存在於外太空 , 是因為我們在那裡的旅程 。
this is a glass beaker after about half a million rads of radiation .	這是個玻璃賭場 , 經過50萬次的輻射之後 。
the glass started to burn and crack , while the microbes sitting in the bottom just got happier and happier .	玻璃開始燃燒和裂縫 , 而微生物在底部的微生物就變得更快樂、更快樂 。
here's an actual picture of what happens: the top of this shows the genome after 1 . 7 million rads of radiation .	這張照片是實際發生的狀況:這張圖表顯示了170萬次的輻射後的基因組 。
the chromosome is literally blown apart .	染色體的確分裂了 。
and here's that same dna automatically reassembled 24 hours later .	同樣的dna在24小時後自動重新組合 。
it's truly stunning that these organisms can do that , and we probably have thousands , if not tens of thousands , of different species on this planet that are capable of doing that .	真正令人驚訝的是 , 這些生物能做到這一點 , 我們可能有數千種 , 如果地球上沒有成千上萬種不同的物種 , 能夠做到 。
after these genomes are synthesized , the first step is just transplanting them into a cell without a genome .	在這些基因組合之後 , 第一步就是將它們移植到一個沒有基因組的細胞中 。
so we think synthetic cells are going to have tremendous potential , not only for understanding the basis of biology but for hopefully environmental and society issues .	所以我們認為合成細胞將會有巨大的潛力 , 不僅是為了了解生物學的基礎 , 還為了希望環境和社會問題 。
for example , from the third organism we sequenced , methanococcus jannaschii it lives in boiling water temperatures ; its energy source is hydrogen and all its carbon comes from co2 it captures back from the environment .	例如 , 從我們所測定的第三個有機體 , 珍納西 , 它住在沸騰的水溫 ; 它的能量來源是氫和碳 , 來自於環境中的二氧化碳 。
so we know lots of different pathways , thousands of different organisms now that live off of co2 , and can capture that back .	所以我們知道許多不同的路徑 , 成千上萬的生物 , 活在二氧化碳之外 , 還能捕捉到它 。
so instead of using carbon from oil for synthetic processes , we have the chance of using carbon and capturing it back from the atmosphere , converting that into biopolymers or other products .	所以 , 我們不用石油來製造合成過程 , 我們有機會使用碳 , 從大氣中捕捉它 , 將它轉換成生物聚合物或其它產品 。
we have one organism that lives off of carbon monoxide , and we use as a reducing power to split water to produce hydrogen and oxygen .	我們有一種有機體存在於一氧化碳之外 , 我們用它來分解水來產生氫和氧氣 。
also , there's numerous pathways that can be engineered metabolizing methane .	此外 , 有許多通路可以被工程代謝甲烷 。
and dupont has a major program with statoil in norway to capture and convert the methane from the gas fields there into useful products .	杜邦有一個重大的計畫 , 在挪威 , 用來捕捉並將甲烷從氣體領域轉換成有用的產品 。
within a short while , i think there's going to be a new field called " combinatorial genomics , " because with these new synthesis capabilities , these vast gene array repertoires and the homologous recombination , we think we can design a robot to make maybe a million different chromosomes a day .	短短時間內 , 我認為會有一種新的領域叫做 「 組合基因組 」 , 因為這些新合成的能力 , 這些巨大的基因組組組組組合 , 以及同性組合 , 我們認為我們可以設計一個機器人 , 一天可以製造出百萬種不同的染色體 。
and therefore , as with all biology , you get selection through screening , whether you're screening for hydrogen production , or chemical production , or just viability .	因此 , 如同所有的生物學 , 透過篩選 , 不論你在篩選氫化生產或化學產量 , 或只是可行性 。
to understand the role of these genes is going to be well within reach .	若要了解這些基因的角色 , 會很快就會到達 。
we're trying to modify photosynthesis to produce hydrogen directly from sunlight .	我們試著修改光合作用 , 直接從陽光中產生氫 。
photosynthesis is modulated by oxygen , and we have an oxygeninsensitive hydrogenase that we think will totally change this process .	光合作用被氧氣調節 , 我們有一種氧氣敏感性氫氣 , 我們認為會徹底改變這個過程 。
we're also combining cellulases , the enzymes that break down complex sugars into simple sugars and fermentation in the same cell for producing ethanol .	我們也在結合纖維 , 酵素會將複雜的糖分解成簡單的糖和發酵 , 在同一個細胞中產生乙醇的酵素 。
pharmaceutical production is already under way in major laboratories using microbes .	製藥生產已經在使用微生物的主要實驗室裡進行 。
the chemistry from compounds in the environment is orders of magnitude more complex than our best chemists can produce .	環境中的化合物所產生的化學成分比我們最好的化學家所產生的複雜得多 。
i think future engineered species could be the source of food , hopefully a source of energy , environmental remediation and perhaps replacing the petrochemical industry .	我認為 , 未來的工程物種可能是食物的來源 , 希望是能源、環境復甦 , 也許取代石化產業 。
let me just close with ethical and policy studies .	讓我用道德和政策研究來結束 。
we delayed the start of our experiments in 1999 until we completed a yearandahalf bioethical review as to whether we should try and make an artificial species .	我們在1999年把實驗的開端延遲 , 直到我們完成了一年半的生物倫理審查 , 來審查我們是否應該嘗試製造一個人造物種 。
every major religion participated in this .	每個主要的宗教都參與其中 。
it was actually a very strange study , because the various religious leaders were using their scriptures as law books , and they couldn't find anything in them prohibiting making life , so it must be ok . the only ultimate concerns were biological warfare aspects of this , but gave us the go ahead to start these experiments for the reasons we were doing them .	這其實是一項非常奇怪的研究 , 因為各式各樣的宗教領袖用他們的文字作為法律書籍 , 他們找不到禁止製造生命的任何東西 , 所以這一定是好的 。 最後的關注是生物戰的面向 , 但給了我們 , 要開始這些實驗 , 原因是我們在做這些實驗的原因 。
right now the sloan foundation has just funded a multiinstitutional study on this , to work out what the risk and benefits to society are , and the rules that scientific teams such as my own should be using in this area , and we're trying to set good examples as we go forward .	現在 , 史隆基金會剛資助了一份多體制的研究 , 來找出對社會的風險和利益是什麼 , 以及科學團隊的規則 , 如同我自己的團隊應該在這個領域中使用的 , 我們正試著設立好的例子 。
these are complex issues .	這些都是複雜的問題 。
except for the threat of bioterrorism , they're very simple issues in terms of , can we design things to produce clean energy , perhaps revolutionizing what developing countries can do and provide through various simple processes .	除了生物恐怖主義的威脅之外 , 它們是非常簡單的議題 , 我們能設計東西來產生乾淨能源 , 也許革新開發中國家能做什麼 , 提供各種簡單的過程 。
psychologist philip zimbardo says happiness and success are rooted in a trait most of us disregard: the way we orient toward the past , present and future . he suggests we calibrate our outlook on time as a first step to improving our lives .	心理學家philipzimbardo說幸福和成功根源於我們大多數人對過去的看法、現在和未來的看法 。 他建議我們在時代的第一步以改善我們的生活 。
brain , business , happiness , mind , psychology , science	大腦、商業、快樂、心智、心理學、科學、科學、
philip zimbardo prescribes a healthy take on time	philipzimbardo的處方是一段健康的時期
i want to share with you some ideas about the secret power of time , in a very short time .	我想和大家分享一些關於時間的秘密力量的想法 , 在很短的時間內 。
video: all right , start the clock please . 30 seconds studio .	影片:好的 , 開始時鐘 。 三十秒的工作室 。
keep it quiet please . settle down .	讓它安靜下來 。 安頓下來 。
it's about time . end sequence . take one .	時間到了 , 結束序列 。 拿一個 。
10 , nine , eight , seven , six , five , four , three , two . . .	10、9、8、7、6、5、4、3、2......
philip zimbardo: let's tune into the conversation of the principals in adam's temptation .	菲利浦辛巴巴多:咱們來談談亞當的誘惑 。
" come on adam , don't be so wishywashy . take a bite . " " i did . "	「 拜託 , 不要太清醒了 。 拿一點點 。 」 「 我真的 。 」
" one bite , adam . don't abandon eve . "	「 一隻咬 , 亞當 , 不要放棄eve 。 」
" i don't know , guys .	「 我不知道 , 各位 。
i don't want to get in trouble . "	我不想惹麻煩 。 」
" okay . one bite . what the hell ? "	「 好吧 。 稍微一點 。 地獄到底是什麼 ? 」
life is temptation . it's all about yielding , resisting , yes , no , now , later , impulsive , reflective , present focus and future focus .	生命是誘惑 。 重點是產量、抗拒 , 是的 , 之後 , 衝動、反射、焦點和未來的焦點 。
promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment .	承諾美德會陷入當下的熱情 。
of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage thank you george bush the majority , 60 percent , yielded to sexual temptations within one year .	在十幾歲的女孩中 , 她們的性別缺陷和處女 , 直到婚姻 , 感謝你喬治布希大多 , 百分之六十 , 在一年內得到性誘惑 。
and most of them did so without using birth control .	大部分的人不用生育控制 。
so much for promises .	許多的承諾 。
now lets tempt fouryearolds , giving them a treat .	現在讓我們嘗試四歲的孩子 , 給他們一個治療 。
they can have one marshmallow now . but if they wait until the experimenter comes back , they can have two .	他們現在可以有一顆棉花糖 , 但如果他們等到實驗人員回來 , 他們就能有兩顆 。
of course it pays , if you like marshmallows , to wait .	當然 , 要是你喜歡棉花糖 , 才能等待 。
what happens is twothirds of the kids give in to temptation .	接下來發生的是三分之二的孩子給誘惑 。
they cannot wait . the others , of course , wait .	他們不能等 。 當然 , 其他的 , 等等 。
they resist the temptation . they delay the now for later .	他們抗拒誘惑 , 等一下會延遲 。
walter mischel , my colleague at stanford , went back 14 years later , to try to discover what was different about those kids .	我在史丹佛大學的同事 , 回到14年後 , 試著去發現那些孩子的不同之處 。
there were enormous differences between kids who resisted and kids who yielded , in many ways .	有很大的差異 , 他們抗拒和孩子的差異 , 在許多層面上都很大 。
the kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the sat .	那些抗拒分數的孩子在現場高出250分 。
that's enormous . that's like a whole set of different iq points .	這很巨大 。 這就像是一整組不同的智商點 。
they didn't get in as much trouble . they were better students .	他們沒有遇到太多麻煩 , 他們是更好的學生 。
they were selfconfident and determined . and the key for me today , the key for you , is , they were futurefocused rather than presentfocused .	他們是自信且有決心的 。 今天 , 對你來說 , 關鍵在於 , 他們是未來的專注 , 而不是現在的專注 。
so what is time perspective ? that's what i'm going to talk about today .	所以 , 時間的觀點是什麼 ? 這就是我今天要談的 。
time perspective is the study of how individuals , all of us , divide the flow of your human experience into time zones or time categories .	時間觀點是研究個人、我們所有人 , 將你人類的經驗分割成時間區或時間分類 。
and you do it automatically and nonconsciously .	而且你會自動且無意識地做 。
they vary between cultures , between nations , between individuals , between social classes , between education levels .	他們在文化、國家、個人、社會階級、教育層面之間的差異 。
and the problem is that they can become biased , because you learn to overuse some of them and underuse the others .	問題是 , 它們會變得偏見 , 因為你會學會過度使用它們 , 因而破壞其他的 。
what determines any decision you make ?	你做了什麼決定 ?
you make a decision on which you're going to base an action .	你做一個決定 , 決定你要採取行動 。
for some people it's only about what is in the immediate situation , what other people are doing and what you're feeling .	對某些人而言 , 只有在當下的情況下 , 其他人在做什麼 , 以及你感覺的是什麼 。
and those people , when they make their decisions in that format we're going to call them " presentoriented , " because their focus is what is now .	那些人 , 當他們在那樣的形式中做出決定時 , 我們會稱他們為 「 現狀 」 , 因為他們的焦點是現在的 。
for others , the present is irrelevant .	對其他人來說 , 現在是不相關的 。
it's always about " what is this situation like that i've experienced in the past ? "	總是在說 「 我過去經歷過的情況是什麼 ? 」
so that their decisions are based on past memories .	所以他們的決定是基於過去記憶 。
and we're going to call those people " pastoriented , " because they focus on what was .	我們會把這些人稱之為 「 牧草原 」 , 因為他們專注於什麼 。
for others it's not the past , it's not the present , it's only about the future .	對其他人來說 , 不是過去 , 也不是現在 , 而是關於未來 。
their focus is always about anticipated consequences .	他們的焦點總是在於預期後的結果 。
we're going to call them " futureoriented . " their focus is on what will be .	我們稱他們為 「 未來主義 」 , 他們的焦點在於未來是什麼 。
so , time paradox , i want to argue , the paradox of time perspective , is something that influences every decision you make , you're totally unaware of .	所以 , 時間悖論 , 我想說的是時間觀點的矛盾 , 是影響你做出的每一個決定 , 你完全不知道的 。
namely , the extent to which you have one of these biased time perspectives .	也就是說 , 你有這種偏見時間觀點的程度 。
well there is actually six of them . there are two ways to be presentoriented .	其實有六個 。 有兩種方式可以被呈現出來 。
there is two ways to be pastoriented , two ways to be future .	有兩種方式可以被放牧 , 有兩種方式可以成為未來 。
you can focus on pastpositive , or pastnegative .	你可以把焦點放在正向或負面的 。
you can be presenthedonistic , namely you focus on the joys of life , or presentfatalist it doesn't matter , your life is controlled .	你可以是現代主義者 , 即你專注於人生的喜悅 , 或現代主義者──這無所謂 , 你的人生被控制了 。
you can be futureoriented , setting goals .	你可以是未來的、設定的目標 。
or you can be transcendental future: namely , life begins after death .	或者 , 你可以是超現實的未來:生命始於死亡 。
developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidly depending on the demands of the situation , that's what you've got to learn to do .	開發心理靈活性 , 讓時間觀點流暢地依賴情況的需求 , 這就是你要學會做的事 。
so , very quickly , what is the optimal time profile ?	很快地 , 最佳的時間檔案是什麼 ?
high on pastpositive . moderately high on future .	非常正向的 。 在未來 , 現代的高度 。
and moderate on presenthedonism .	現代主義的現代主義 。
and always low on pastnegative and presentfatalism .	總是低於負面和現代主義 。
so the optimal temporal mix is what you get from the past pastpositive gives you roots . you connect your family , identity and your self .	所以 , 最佳的暫停混合是你從過去的傾向給你根 。 你連結你的家庭、身份和你的自我 。
what you get from the future is wings to soar to new destinations , new challenges .	你從未來得到的 , 是翅膀 , 到新的目的地 , 新的挑戰 。
what you get from the present hedonism is the energy , the energy to explore yourself , places , people , sensuality .	你從現在的衛生主義得到的是能量 , 去探索自己、地點、人、感官 。
any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives .	任何時間 , 過量的負面觀點 , 都比正面多 。
what do futures sacrifice for success ?	未來如何犧牲成功 ?
they sacrifice family time . they sacrifice friend time .	他們犧牲家庭時間 , 犧牲朋友的時間 。
they sacrifice fun time . they sacrifice personal indulgence .	它們犧牲了好玩的時間 , 它們犧牲了個人的成分 。
they sacrifice hobbies . and they sacrifice sleep . so it affects their health .	他們犧牲了嗜好 , 他們犧牲了睡眠 。 所以這會影響他們的健康 。
and they live for work , achievement and control .	他們活在工作上、成就和控制中 。
i'm sure that resonates with some of the tedsters .	我確信和一些ted的演講會產生共鳴 。
and it resonated for me . i grew up as a poor kid in the south bronx ghetto , a sicilian family everyone lived in the past and present .	這對我產生共鳴 。 我在南布朗克斯ghetto的一個貧窮孩子 , 一個西尼裔家庭 , 所有人都住在過去和現在 。
i'm here as a futureoriented person who went over the top , who did all these sacrifices because teachers intervened , and made me future oriented .	我來到這裡 , 身為一個有前途的人 , 他走過頂端 , 做這些犧牲 , 是因為老師介入 , 讓我成為未來的方向 。
told me don't eat that marshmallow , because if you wait you're going to get two of them , until i learned to balance out .	告訴我不要吃棉花糖 , 因為如果你等著你得到兩個 , 直到我學會了平衡 。
i've added presenthedonism , i've added a focus on the pastpositive , so , at 76 years old , i am more energetic than ever , more productive , and i'm happier than i have ever been .	我加入了現在的殖民主義 , 我把焦點放在 「 正面 」 , 在76歲時 , 我比以往更活躍 , 更有生產力 , 我比以前更快樂 。
i just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems: changing the dropout rates of school kids , combating addictions , enhancing teen health , curing vets' ptsd with time metaphors getting miracle cures promoting sustainability and conservation , reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50percent drop out rate , altering appeals to suicidal terrorists , and modifying family conflicts as timezone clashes .	我只想說我們應用在許多世界問題上:改變學校的輟學率 , 加強青少年健康 , 治癒創傷後壓力症候群 , 讓奇蹟能夠促進永續發展和保育 , 降低了50%的人口退休率 , 轉變為自殺的恐怖份子 , 轉變為自殺的恐怖分子 , 轉變了家族的衝突 。
so i want to end by saying: many of life's puzzles can be solved by understanding your time perspective and that of others .	最後我想說的是:許多生命的謎題可以透過了解你的時間觀和其他人的觀點來解決 。
and the idea is so simple , so obvious , but i think the consequences are really profound .	這個想法很簡單 , 很明顯 , 但我認為後果很深遠 。
how many of today's headlines will matter in 100 years ? 1000 ? kirk citron's " long news " project collects stories that not only matter today , but will resonate for decades even centuries to come . at ted2010 , he highlights recent headlines with the potential to shape our future .	在一百年內 , 今天的頭條有多少人會很重要 ? 一百年 ? 柯克•克倫的 「 漫長新聞 」 計畫收集現今重要的故事 , 數十年來 , 甚至數十年 , 在ted2010年 , 他針對我們未來的潛力標題 。
future , global issues , media , news , science	未來 , 全球議題、媒體、新聞、科學、科學、科學、科學等問題 。
kirk citron: and now , the real news	kirkcitron:現在 , 真正的消息是真實的消息 。
we are drowning in news .	我們在新聞中淹沒了 。
reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year .	光是路透師一年就提出了三百五十萬則新聞報導 。
that's just one source .	這只是其中一個來源 。
my question is: how many of those stories are actually going to matter in the long run ?	我的問題是:在長期來看 , 這些故事中有多少會被影響 ?
that's the idea behind the long news .	這就是長期新聞背後的想法 。
it's a project by the long now foundation , which was founded by tedsters including kevin kelly and stewart brand .	這是一個長期基金會的計畫 , 由tedsters所創立 , 包括kevinkelly和stewart品牌 。
and what we're looking for is news stories that might still matter 50 or 100 or 10 , 000 years from now .	我們在尋找的新聞 , 可能仍然重要50、100、100 , 000年 。
and when you look at the news through that filter , a lot falls by the wayside .	當你看那些過濾器的消息時 , 通常會被一邊倒下 。
to take the top stories from the a . p . this last year , is this going to matter in a decade ?	為了從a.p.這一年來 , 這在十年內是很重要的嗎 ?
is this going to matter in 50 or 100 years ?	這在50或100年後會有什麼影響嗎 ?
okay , that was kind of cool .	好吧 , 那有點酷 。
but the top story of this past year was the economy , and i'm just betting that , sooner or later , this particular recession is going to be old news .	但 , 去年的頂尖故事是經濟 , 我只是打賭 , 不久之後 , 這個特殊的衰退將會是舊的消息 。
so , what kind of stories might make a difference for the future ?	所以 , 什麼樣的故事對未來有什麼影響 ?
well , let's take science .	嗯 , 咱們來談科學 。
someday , little robots will go through our bloodstreams fixing things .	有一天 , 小機器人會穿過我們的血液循環 , 固定東西 。
that someday is already here if you're a mouse .	有些時候你已經在這裡了 , 如果你是老鼠 。
some recent stories: nanobees zap tumors with real bee venom ; they're sending genes into the brain ; a robot they built that can crawl through the human body .	最近一些故事:奈米粒子用真正的蜜蜂毒液將基因送入腦中 ; 一個機器人 , 可以爬過人體 。
what about resources ? how are we going to feed nine billion people ?	資源呢 ? 我們要如何餵飽九十億人 ?
we're having trouble feeding six billion today .	現今我們有六十億的難題 。
as we heard yesterday , there's over a billion people hungry .	正如昨天我們聽到的 , 有超過十億人挨餓 。
britain will starve without genetically modified crops .	英國會餓死沒有基因改造作物 。
bill gates , fortunately , has bet a billion on [agricultural] research .	幸運的是 , 比爾蓋茲有十億人在虛擬研究上 。
what about global politics ?	那麼全球政治呢 ?
the world's going to be very different when and if china sets the agenda , and they may .	世界將會非常不同 , 如果中國設定了這個議程 , 他們可能會 。
they've overtaken the u . s . as the world's biggest car market , they've overtaken germany as the largest exporter , and they've started doing dna tests on kids to choose their careers .	他們已經超越美國作為世界上最大的汽車市場 , 他們已經超越了德國 , 成為最大的出口國 , 他們開始在孩子身上做dna檢測 , 來選擇他們的職業 。
we're finding all kinds of ways to push back the limits of what we know .	我們在尋找各種方法 , 把我們所知的極限推回來 。
some recent discoveries: there's an ant colony from argentina that has now spread to every continent but antarctica ; there's a selfdirected robot scientist that's made a discovery soon , science may no longer need us , and life may no longer need us either ; a microbe wakes up after 120 , 000 years .	最近的一些發現:阿根廷有一隻螞蟻群 , 現在已經散播到每個大陸 , 但南極洲 , 有一個自主導的機器人科學家很快就發現了 , 科學可能不再需要我們了 , 生命可能也不再需要我們了 ; 一個微生物在120 , 000年之後出現 。
it seems that with or without us , life will go on .	似乎與我們無關 , 生命會繼續下去 。
but my pick for the top long news story of this past year was this one: water found on the moon .	但今年我選的長新聞故事是這個:在月球上發現水 。
makes it a lot easier to put a colony up there .	把蟻群放在那裡 , 讓蟻群變得更容易 。
and if nasa doesn't do it , china might , or somebody in this room might write a big check .	如果美國太空總署不這麼做 , 中國可能 , 或在這間房間裡的人可能會寫一支大支票 。
my point is this: in the long run , some news stories are more important than others .	我的重點是:長期來看 , 有些新聞故事比其他人更重要 。
planetary scientist carolyn porco shows images from the cassini voyage to saturn , focusing on its largest moon , titan , and on frozen enceladus , which seems to shoot jets of ice .	行星科學家卡羅林•波科展示了卡西尼航行到土星的圖像 , 把焦點放在它最大的月球、霸主、冰冷的土衛二上 , 這似乎是用來射擊冰的射線 。
nasa , design , exploration , science , space , technology , universe , visualizations	美國太空總署、設計、探索、科學、太空科技、宇宙、視覺化化、視覺化 。
carolyn porco flies us to saturn	卡奧林•潘朵科飛了我們 , 來土星 。
in the next 18 minutes , i'm going to take you on a journey .	在接下來的18分鐘裡 , 我要帶各位踏上一段旅程 。
and it's a journey that you and i have been on for many years now , and it began some 50 years ago , when humans first stepped off our planet .	這是你和我的旅程 , 已經有好幾年了 , 五十年前 , 人類第一次離開地球 。
and in those 50 years , not only did we literally , physically set foot on the moon , but we have dispatched robotic spacecraft to all the planets all eight of them and we have landed on asteroids , we have rendezvoused with comets , and , at this point in time , we have a spacecraft on its way to pluto , the body formerly known as a planet .	在那五十年間 , 我們不僅僅在月球上設定了一腳 , 我們已經把機器人太空船放到所有行星上 , 我們登陸了小行星 , 我們已經帶著彗星重生 , 此時此刻 , 我們有一艘太空船 , 飛往冥王星的路上 , 前所知的星球 。
and all of these robotic missions are part of a bigger human journey: a voyage to understand something , to get a sense of our cosmic place , to understand something of our origins , and how earth , our planet , and we , living on it , came to be .	所有這些機械任務都是更大的人類旅程的一部分:一趟探險 , 去了解我們的宇宙 , 去了解我們的起源 , 了解我們的起源 , 以及地球、地球、地球、地球、我們 , 都活在其中 。
and of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this , there's saturn . and we have been to saturn before we visited saturn in the early 1980s but our investigations of saturn have become far more indepth in detail since the cassini spacecraft , traveling across interplanetary space for seven years , glided into orbit around saturn in the summer of 2004 , and became at that point the farthest robotic outpost that humanity had ever established around the sun .	在太陽系中的所有地方 , 我們可能去尋找這個問題的答案 , 有土星 。 我們去過土星 。 我們在1980年代初去過土星 , 但我們對土星的調查已經變得更獨立了 , 自卡西尼太空船飛行了七年 , 在2004年夏天 , 飛越了星際空間 , 進入了軌道 , 成為人類在地球上創造出的最遠距離 。
now , the saturn system is a rich planetary system .	土星系統是一個豐富的行星系統 。
it offers mystery , scientific insight and obviously splendor beyond compare , and the investigation of this system has enormous cosmic reach .	它提供了神秘、科學的洞見 , 很明顯地 , 除了相對之外 , 還有這個系統的調查有著巨大的宇宙 。
in fact , just studying the rings alone , we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies .	事實上 , 光是研究環節 , 我們就站在學習很多星體和氣體的圓盤 , 我們稱之為螺旋星系 。
and here's a beautiful picture of the andromeda nebula , which is our closest , largest spiral galaxy to the milky way .	這裡有一張漂亮的andromedanebula的照片 , 它是我們最近的 , 最大的螺旋星系 , 到銀河系 。
and then , here's a beautiful composite of the whirlpool galaxy , taken by the hubble space telescope .	接著 , 這是由哈伯太空望遠鏡所拍攝的美麗的組合 。
so the journey back to saturn is really part of and is also a metaphor for a much larger human voyage to understand the interconnectedness of everything around us , and also how humans fit into that picture .	所以 , 回到土星的旅程是非常重要的 , 也是更大的人類旅程的比喻 , 來了解我們周圍的事物之間的關聯性 , 以及人類如何融入這張圖片中 。
and it pains me that i can't tell you all that we have learned with cassini .	這讓我感到很痛苦 , 我無法告訴你們 , 我們從卡西尼尼學到的所有東西 。
i can't show you all the beautiful pictures that we've taken in the last two and a half years , because i simply don't have the time .	我不能給你們看過去兩年半以來我們拍過的美麗照片 , 因為我根本沒有時間 。
so i'm going to concentrate on two of the most exciting stories that have emerged out of this major exploratory expedition that we are conducting around saturn , and have been for the past two and a half years .	我將專注於其中兩個最令人興奮的故事 , 來自於我們在土星周圍進行的探險 , 過去兩年來一直都是如此 。
saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons .	土星被一大群多樣化的衛星集合在一起 。
they range in size from a few kilometers across to as big across as the u . s .	它們的大小從幾公里長到和美國一樣大 。
most of the beautiful pictures we've taken of saturn , in fact , show saturn in accompaniment with some of its moons . here's saturn with dione , and then , here's saturn showing the rings edgeon , showing you just how vertically thin they are , with the moon enceladus .	大部分我們拍攝過土星的美麗照片 , 事實上 , 土星和它的衛星共存 。 這是土星的土星 , 土星上有石頭 , 接著 , 土星展示了環繞的邊緣 , 向你們展示它們有多薄 , 和月球有多薄 。
now , two of the 47 moons that saturn has are standouts .	土星的四十七個衛星中有兩個是站立的 。
and those are titan and enceladus . titan is saturn's largest moon , and , until cassini had arrived there , was the largest single expanse of unexplored terrain that we had remaining in our solar system .	這些是土衛六和土衛二 。 土衛六是土星最大的月球 , 直到卡西尼抵達那裡 , 是我們太陽系中最大的未探索的地形 。
and it is a body that has long intrigued people who've watched the planets .	它是一個身體有很長的好奇心人士 , 他們看過行星 。
it has a very large , thick atmosphere , and in fact , its surface environment was believed to be more like the environment we have here on the earth , or at least had in the past , than any other body in the solar system .	它有一個很大、很厚的大氣層 , 事實上 , 它的表面環境被認為比較像地球上的環境 , 至少過去的太陽系中任何其他身體 。
its atmosphere is largely molecular nitrogen , like you are breathing here in this room , except that its atmosphere is suffused with simple organic materials like methane and propane and ethane .	它的大氣層主要是分子氮 , 就像你在這裡呼吸 , 除了它的大氣中含有簡單的有機物質 , 如甲烷、丙烷和乙烷 。
and these molecules high up in the atmosphere of titan get broken down , and their products join together to make haze particles .	而這些分子在土衛六的大氣中被分解 , 它們的產品結合在一起 , 製造出大氣粒子 。
this haze is ubiquitous . it's completely global and enveloping titan .	這種混亂是無所不在的 , 完全是全球化的 , 並且包含土衛六 。
and that's why you cannot see down to the surface with our eyes in the visible region of the spectrum .	這就是為什麼在光譜的可見區域看不到表面 。
but these haze particles , it was surmised , before we got there with cassini , over billions and billions of years , gently drifted down to the surface and coated the surface in a thick organic sludge .	但這些黑暗的粒子被推斷 , 在我們和卡西尼一起到達之前 , 數十億年 , 溫柔地漂移到表面 , 並在厚厚的有機煙中覆蓋著表面 。
so like the equivalent , the titan equivalent , of tar , or oil , or what we didn't know what .	像泰坦一樣 , 油 , 油 , 或油 , 或我們不知道什麼 。
but this is what we suspected . and these molecules , especially methane and ethane , can be liquids at the surface temperatures of titan .	但這是我們懷疑的 。 這些分子 , 尤其是甲烷和乙烷 , 可以在土衛二的表面溫度 。
and so it turns out that methane is to titan what water is to the earth .	結果發現 , 甲烷就是土衛六 , 水對地球的意義 。
it's a condensable in the atmosphere , and so recognizing this circumstance brought to the fore a whole world of bizarre possibilities . you can have methane clouds , ok , and above those clouds , you have this hundreds of kilometers of haze , which prevent any sunlight from getting to the surface .	在大氣中 , 它是可以凝結的 , 承認這個環境會帶來整個奇怪的可能性 。 你可以有甲烷雲 , 在這些雲上 , 你有上百公里的霧狀物 , 可以防止太陽到達表面 。
the temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero fahrenheit .	表面的溫度低於華氏零度350度 。
but despite that cold , you could have rain falling down on the surface of titan .	但儘管那寒冷 , 土衛六的表面仍可以下降 。
and doing on titan what rain does on the earth: it carves gullies ; it forms rivers and cataracts ; it can create canyons ; it can pool in large basins and craters .	在土衛六上 , 降雨在地球上 , 它會雕刻猜測 ; 它會形成河流和白內障 ; 它能創造峽谷 ; 它能在大盆地和隕石中戳進來 。
it can wash the sludge off high mountain peaks and hills , down into the lowlands . so stop and think for a minute .	它可以把稀釋的山峰和山丘洗掉 , 進入低地 。 所以停下來思考一下 。
try to imagine what the surface of titan might look like .	試想一下泰坦的表面會是什麼樣子 。
it's dark . high noon on titan is as dark as deep earth twilight on the earth .	它是黑暗的 , 土衛六上的高點跟地球的深光一樣暗 。
it's cold , it's eerie , it's misty , it might be raining , and you might be standing on the shores of lake michigan brimming with paint thinner .	很冷 , 很噁心 , 很噁心 , 可能會下雨 , 你可能會站在密西根湖邊的邊緣 , 用油漆薄薄的薄膜 。
that is the view that we had of the surface of titan before we got there with cassini , and i can tell you that what we have found on titan , though it is not the same in detail , is every bit as fascinating as that story is .	這是我們在泰坦的表面之前所看到的景象 , 是我們和卡西尼一起到達的 , 我可以告訴各位 , 我們在泰坦所發現的 , 雖然細節和故事的真相不同 。
and for us , it has been like the cassini people it has been like a jules verne adventure come true .	對我們來說 , 這就像是卡西尼人 , 它就像是一場朱利•凡內斯的冒險 。
as i said , it has a thick , extensive atmosphere .	如我所說 , 它的大氣層很厚 , 很大 。
this is a picture of titan , backlit by the sun , with the rings as a beautiful backdrop .	這是一張泰坦的照片 , 太陽的背景 , 光環是美麗的背景 。
and yet another moon there i don't even know which one it is . it's a very extensive atmosphere .	另外一個月亮 , 我甚至不知道是哪一個 。 這是個非常廣闊的大氣層 。
we have instruments on cassini which can see down to the surface through this atmosphere , and my camera system is one of them .	我們有卡西尼號的儀器 , 可以透過大氣層看到表面 , 我的攝影系統是其中之一 。
and we have taken pictures like this .	我們拍了像這樣的照片 。
and what you see is bright and dark regions , and that's about as far as it got for us .	你看到的是明亮、黑暗的區域 , 正好是對我們來說的距離 。
it was so mystifying: we couldn't make out what we were seeing on titan .	真是太神秘了:我們無法弄清楚我們在土衛六上所看到的 。
when you look closer at this region , you start to see things like sinuous channels we didn't know . you see a few round things .	當你仔細觀察這個區域 , 你就會看到一些我們不知道的東西 。 你看到一些圓形的東西 。
this , we later found out , is , in fact , a crater , but there are very few craters on the surface of titan , meaning it's a very young surface .	後來我們發現 , 其實是一個坑 , 但土衛六表面上有很少的隕石坑 , 意味著它是非常年輕的表面 。
and there are features that look tectonic .	有些特徵看起來像電子 。
they look like they've been pulled apart .	他們看起來像被拉開一樣 。
whenever you see anything linear on a planet , it means there's been a fracture , like a fault .	每當你在星球上看到任何線條時 , 它就意味著有一個裂痕 , 像是一個錯 。
and so it's been tectonically altered .	所以 , 它已經有了地質上的改變 。
but we couldn't make sense of our images , until , six months after we got into orbit , an event occurred that many have regarded as the highlight of cassini's investigation of titan .	但我們無法理解我們的影像 , 直到我們進入軌道六個月後 , 一個事件發生了 , 許多事件都被視為是泰坦的調查的高點 。
and that was the deployment of the huygens probe , the europeanbuilt huygens probe that cassini had carried for seven years across the solar system . we deployed it to the atmosphere of titan , it took two and a half hours to descend , and it landed on the surface .	這是胡布斯探測器的部署 , 歐洲builthuygens探測器在太陽系中運行了七年 。 我們將它部署到土衛六的大氣層 , 花了兩個半小時 , 才能抵達地表 。
and i just want to emphasize how significant an event this is .	我只想強調這有多重要 。
this is a device of human making , and it landed in the outer solar system for the first time in human history .	這是人類製造的裝置 , 它在人類歷史上第一次登陸太陽系 。
it is so significant that , in my mind , this was an event that should have been celebrated with ticker tape parades in every city across the u . s . and europe , and sadly , that wasn't the case .	很明顯 , 在我看來 , 這是個事件 , 應該要在美國和歐洲各地慶祝 , 不幸的是 , 這並非如此 。
it was significant for another reason . this is an international mission , and this event was celebrated in europe , in germany , and the celebratory presentations were given in english accents , and american accents , and german accents , and french and italian and dutch accents .	這很重要 , 原因是 , 這是國際任務 , 而這個事件在歐洲、德國、慶祝 , 以及慶祝的簡報 , 都是英文的口音、美國口音、德語、法語、義大利語和荷蘭口音 。
it was a moving demonstration of what the words " united nations " are supposed to mean: a true union of nations joined together in a colossal effort for good .	它是關於 「 聯合國 」 這個詞的移動示範 , 應該是:一個真正的國家 , 加入一個很大的努力 。
and , in this case , it was a massive undertaking to explore a planet , and to come to understand a planetary system that , for all of human history , had been unreachable , and now humans had actually touched it .	在這個案例中 , 它是一個巨大的探究一個星球 , 為了所有人類歷史 , 人類的歷史 , 已是不可或缺的 , 現在人類已經接觸到它了 。
so it was i mean , i'm getting goose bumps just talking about it .	所以 , 我的意思是 , 我得到了鵝凸起 , 只是在談論它 。
it was a tremendously emotional event , and it's something that i will personally never forget , and you shouldn't either .	這是非常感情的事件 , 我個人永遠不會忘記 , 你也不該忘記 。
but anyway , the probe took measurements of the atmosphere on the way down , and it also took panoramic pictures .	總之 , 探測器採用大氣層的測量措施 , 同時也拍了全景的照片 。
and i can't tell you what it was like to see the first pictures of titan's surface from the probe . and this is what we saw .	我無法告訴你們泰坦的第一張照片是什麼樣子 。 這是我們看到的 。
and it was a shocker , because it was everything we wanted those other pictures taken from orbit to be .	那是個很震驚的 , 因為那是我們想要從軌道上拍攝的其他照片 。
it was an unambiguous pattern , a geological pattern .	它是一種無形的模式 , 一種地質模式 。
it's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids .	它是一種傾向的排泄模式 , 只能由液體的流動形成 。
and you can follow these channels and you can see how they all converge .	你可以追蹤這些通道 , 看看它們如何被轉換 。
and they converge into this channel here , which drains into this region .	然後他們轉換到這條通道 , 排入這個區域 。
you are looking at a shoreline .	你看到的是海岸線 。
was this a shoreline of fluids ? we didn't know .	這是流體的海岸線嗎 ? 我們不知道 。
but this is somewhat of a shoreline .	但這是一條海岸線 。
this picture is taken at 16 kilometers .	這張照片是在16公里拍的 。
this is the picture taken at eight kilometers , ok ? again , the shoreline .	這是8公里拍攝的照片 , 好嗎 ? 再一次 , 海岸線 。
okay , now , 16 kilometers , eight kilometers this is roughly an airline altitude .	好 , 現在 , 16公里 , 8公里 , 大約是航空高度 。
if you were going to take an airplane trip across the u . s . , you would be flying at these altitudes .	如果你要穿越美國的飛機旅行 , 你會在這些高度飛行 。
so , this is the picture you would have at the window of titanian airlines as you fly across the surface of titan .	這是你在鐵達尼亞航空公司的窗口 , 飛越土衛六的表面 。
and then finally , the probe came to rest on the surface , and i'm going to show you , ladies and gentlemen , the first picture ever taken from the surface of a moon in the outer solar system .	最後 , 探測器在表面上休息 , 我要給你們看 , 各位先生女士 , 第一張從外太陽系的表面拍攝的照片 。
and here is the horizon , ok ?	這是地平線 , 好嗎 ?
these are probably water ice pebbles , yes ?	這些可能是冰泡 , 是嗎 ?
and obviously , it landed in one of these flat , dark regions and it didn't sink out of sight . so it wasn't fluid that we landed in .	很顯然 , 它落在一個平坦、黑暗的區域 , 且它沒有從視線下沉 。 所以它不是我們登陸的液體 。
what the probe came down in was basically the titan equivalent of a mud flat .	基本上 , 探測器就跟泥巴平面一樣 。
this is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane .	這是一個與液態甲烷混合的土地 。
and it's probably the case that this material has washed off the highlands of titan through these channels that we saw , and has drained over billions of years to fill in lowlying basins .	可能是這種材料在我們看到的這些通道中已經被沖掉了 , 數十億年以來 , 以便填滿了低沉的盆地 。
and that is what the huygens probe landed in .	這就是huygens探測器登陸的原因 。
but still , there was no sign in our images , or even in the huygens' images , of any large , open bodies of fluids .	但是 , 我們的影像中沒有任何跡象 , 甚至在胡布斯的圖片中 , 任何大型、開放的液體 。
where were they ? it got even more puzzling when we found dunes .	它們在哪裡 ? 當我們發現沙丘時 , 它變得更令人困惑 。
ok , so this is our movie of the equatorial region of titan , showing these dunes . these are dunes that are 100 meters tall , separated by a few kilometers , and they go on for miles and miles and miles .	好 , 這是我們土衛六的赤道地區的電影 , 展示這些沙丘 。 這些沙丘是100公尺高 , 被幾公里分開的沙丘 , 經過幾公里、幾英里、幾英里 。
there's hundreds , up to a 1 , 000 or 1 , 200 miles of dunes .	有數百英哩高達1000或1200英哩的沙丘
this is the saharan desert of titan .	這是土衛六沙漠 。
it's obviously a place which is very dry , or you wouldn't get dunes .	很明顯地 , 一個非常乾燥的地方 , 或者你不會得到沙丘 。
so again , it got puzzling that there were no bodies of fluid , until finally , we saw lakes in the polar regions .	所以 , 同樣的 , 它變得難以置信 , 直到最後 , 我們在極地區域看到湖泊 。
and there is a lake scene in the south polar region of titan .	土衛六南極地區有一個湖景 。
it's about the size of lake ontario .	它大約和安大略湖一樣大 。
and then , only a week and a half ago , we flew over the north pole of titan and found , again , we found a feature here the size of the caspian sea .	然後 , 僅僅在一週半前 , 我們飛越了土衛六的北極 , 再次發現 , 我們發現了像卡薩尼海一樣大的特徵 。
so it seems that the liquids , for some reason we don't understand , or during at least this season , are apparently at the poles of titan .	所以似乎液體 , 基於某些我們不了解的原因 , 或至少在這個季節 , 顯然在泰坦的極端 。
and i think you would agree that we have found titan is a remarkable , mystical place . it's exotic , it's alien , but yet strangely earthlike , and having earthlike geological formations and a tremendous geographical diversity , and is a fascinating world whose only rival in the solar system for complexity and richness is the earth itself .	我認為你會同意 , 我們發現泰坦是個很神秘的地方 , 很奇怪 , 很奇怪 , 但卻像地球一樣 , 擁有類似地球的地質和地理的多樣性 , 也是一個令人著迷的世界 , 在太陽系中 , 只有這麼複雜和豐富的溫度是地球本身 。
and so now we go onto enceladus . enceladus is a small moon , it's about a tenth the size of titan . and you can see it here next to england , just to show you the size . this is not meant to be a threat .	所以現在我們去了土衛二 。 土衛二是一個小的衛星 , 它大約是土衛六的10分 。 你可以看到它在英格蘭旁邊 , 給你看大小 。 這不是威脅 。
and enceladus is very white , it's very bright , and its surface is obviously wrecked with fractures .	土衛二是非常白的 , 非常明亮 , 它的表面顯然是破碎的 。
it is a very geologically active body .	這是個非常活躍的身體 。
but the mother lode of discoveries on enceladus was found at the south pole and we're looking at the south pole here where we found this system of fractures .	但土衛二的發現 , 在南極被發現 , 我們正在研究南極 , 在那裡 , 我們找到了這個碎形系統 。
and they're a different color because they're a different composition .	它們是不同的顏色 , 因為它們是不同的組成 。
they are coated . these fractures are coated with organic materials .	這些碎片和有機物質結合在一起 。
moreover , this whole , entire region , the south polar region , has elevated temperatures . it's the hottest place on the planet , on the body .	此外 , 整個區域 , 南極區域提升了溫度 。 它是地球上最熱的地方 , 位於人體上 。
that's as bizarre as finding that the antarctic on the earth is hotter than the tropics .	這就像是發現地球上的南極比熱帶還要熱 。
and then , when we took additional pictures , we discovered that from these fractures are issuing jets of fine , icy particles extending hundreds of miles into space .	然後 , 當我們拍了額外的圖片 , 我們發現 , 從這些碎形開始噴射出好的噴射機 , 冰柱會延伸數百英哩的空間 。
and when we colorcode this image , to bring out the faint light levels , we see that these jets feed a plume that , in fact , we see , in other images , goes thousands of miles into the space above enceladus .	當我們把這張影像編碼出來時 , 我們會發現這些噴射器的數量增加了一倍 , 事實上 , 在其他的影像中 , 我們可以看到 , 在土衛二上數千英哩的太空中 。
my team and i have examined images like this , and like this one , and have thought about the other results from cassini .	我和我的團隊探討了像這樣的影像 , 就像這張 , 想出了卡西尼尼號的其他結果 。
and we have arrived at the conclusion that these jets may be erupting from pockets of liquid water under the surface of enceladus .	我們得到的結論是這些噴射機可能從土衛二表面下噴出液態水 。
so we have , possibly , liquid water , organic materials and excess heat .	所以 , 我們可能有液態水、有機物質和過量的熱能 。
in other words , we have possibly stumbled upon the holy grail of modern day planetary exploration , or in other words , an environment that is potentially suitable for living organisms .	換句話說 , 我們可能發現了現代地球探索的聖杯 , 換句話說 , 一個可能適合生物的環境 。
and i don't think i need to tell you that the discovery of life elsewhere in our solar system , whether it be on enceladus or elsewhere , would have enormous cultural and scientific implications .	我不認為我需要告訴你們 , 在我們的太陽系中發現了生命 , 不論是在土衛二或其他地方 , 都會有很大的文化和科學的含義 。
because if we could demonstrate that genesis had occurred not once , but twice , independently , in our solar system , then that means , by inference , it has occurred a staggering number of times throughout the universe and its 13 . 7 billion year history .	因為如果我們可以證明遺傳基因不只發生一次 , 而是獨立的在我們的太陽系中 , 那就表示 , 根據推斷 , 它在整個宇宙中發生了驚人的數量 , 並且它137億年的歷史 。
right now , earth is the only planet still that we know is teeming with life .	目前 , 地球是唯一一個我們知道的行星 , 正充滿著生命 。
it is precious , it is unique , it is still , so far , the only home we've ever known .	它很珍貴 , 它是獨一無二的 , 到目前為止 , 我們唯一認識的家 。
and if any of you were alert and coherent during the 1960s and we'd forgive you , if you weren't , ok you would remember this very famous picture taken by the apollo 8 astronauts in 1968 .	如果你們當中有人在1960年代被警告和協調 , 我們會原諒你 , 如果你不是 , 你還記得1968年阿波羅8號太空人拍下這張著名的照片 。
it was the first time that earth was imaged from space , and it had an enormous impact on our sense of place in the universe , and our sense of responsibility for the protection of our own planet .	那是第一次 , 地球是從太空中拍攝的 , 它對我們在宇宙中的位置有很大的影響 , 以及我們對地球保護的責任感 。
well , we on cassini have taken an equivalent first , a picture that no human eye has ever seen before .	嗯 , 我們在卡西尼拍了一張相同的第一張照片 , 照片從來沒有人眼見過 。
it is a total eclipse of the sun , seen from the other side of saturn .	它是土星另一端的太陽的日全日蝕 。
and in this impossibly beautiful picture , you see the main rings backlit by the sun , you see the refracted image of the sun and you see this ring created , in fact , by the exhalations of enceladus .	在這張可能是美麗的圖片中 , 你看到太陽的主要環繞著背景 , 你可以看到太陽的重建圖像 , 看到這個環實際上是由土衛二所產生的 。
but as if that weren't brilliant enough , we can spot , in this beautiful image , sight of our own planet , cradled in the arms of saturn's rings .	但 , 彷彿那還不夠聰明 , 我們可以在這個美麗的圖像中 , 看到我們自己的星球 , 在土星環的手臂中擠滿了 。
now , there is something deeply moving about seeing ourselves from afar , and capturing the sight of our little , blueocean planet in the skies of other worlds .	現在 , 有一個深深感動人心的是從遠處看到自己 , 捕捉到我們在其他世界的小藍綠色的行星 。
and that , and the perspective of ourselves that we gain from that , may be , in the end , the finest reward that we earn from this journey of discovery that started half a century ago .	這也是我們從中獲益的觀點 , 可能是最終 , 我們從這個發現的最好的獎賞 , 從半個世紀前就開始了 。
as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped . this slows the delivery of aid after a disaster and hides the economic potential of unused lands and unknown roads . in this short talk , google's lalitesh katragadda demos map maker , a group mapmaking tool that people around the globe are using to map their world .	到了2005年 , 世界上只有15%的人被繪製出來 。 這種減緩了在災難後的遞送 , 隱藏了未知的土地和未知的道路 。 在短篇演講中 , 谷歌的卡達加達•狄摩達繪畫家 , 一個全球各地居民用地地地地地地地地圖繪製的工具 。
collaboration , design , map , technology	合作 , 設計 , 地圖 , 科技 , 科技 , 科技 。
lalitesh katragadda: making maps to fight disaster , build economies	lalishkatragada:繪製對抗災難的地圖 , 建立經濟體 , 來對抗災難 , 建立經濟 。
in 2008 , cyclone nargis devastated myanmar .	2008年 , cyclonenagis摧毀了緬甸 。
millions of people were in severe need of help .	數百萬人有嚴重的幫助 。
the u . n . wanted to rush people and supplies to the area .	聯合國想要把人趕到這個區域 。
but there were no maps , no maps of roads , no maps showing hospitals , no way for help to reach the cyclone victims .	但沒有地圖 , 沒有道路地圖 , 沒有地圖顯示醫院 , 無法協助到達cyclone受害者 。
when we look at a map of los angeles or london , it is hard to believe that as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geocodable level of detail .	當我們看到洛杉磯或倫敦的地圖時 , 很難相信在2005年 , 世界上只有15%的人被繪製成地理位置 。
the u . n . ran headfirst into a problem that the majority of the world's populous faces: not having detailed maps .	聯合國成立了大多數人臉龐龐大的問題:沒有詳細的地圖 。
but help was coming .	但協助來了 。
at google , 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120 , 000 kilometers of roads , 3 , 000 hospitals , logistics and relief points .	在google , 40個志願者用一個新軟體繪製十二萬公里的道路 , 三千間醫院、物流和救援點 。
and it took them four days .	他們花了四天 。
the new software they used ? google mapmaker .	他們用的新軟體 ? 谷歌地圖製造者 。
google mapmaker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally .	google地圖製造者是一項科技 , 讓我們每一個人都能繪製出我們所知的地圖 。
people have used this software to map everything from roads to rivers , from schools to local businesses , and video stores to the corner store .	人們用這個軟體來繪製所有東西 , 從道路到河流 , 從學校到當地的企業 , 視頻店到角落商店 。
nobel prize nominee hernando de soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land .	諾貝爾獎提名赫南多•索托知道 , 對大部分開發中國家而言 , 經濟利益的關鍵是要處理大量未受控制的土地 。
for example , a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapitalized in india alone .	舉例來說 , 僅在印度 , 一兆美金的房地產仍未被控制 。
in the last year alone , thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information , and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable .	光是去年 , 170個國家有成千上萬的使用者已經繪製了數百萬的資訊 , 並創造出一個細節的地圖 。
and this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere .	這使得我們有熱情使用者的力量 。
let's look at some of the maps being created by users right now .	現在我們來看看一些使用者的地圖 。
so , as we speak , people are mapping the world in these 170 countries .	所以 , 如同我們所說的 , 在這個170個國家中 , 人們在繪製這個世界 。
you can see bridget in africa who just mapped a road in senegal .	你可以看到非洲的橋 , 剛在塞內加爾畫了一條路 。
and , closer to home , chalua , an n . g . road in bangalore .	更接近家鄉 , 查蘿拉 , 一個n.g.g.g.g.g.s.g.tangalore 。
this is the result of computational geometry , gesture recognition , and machine learning .	這是計算幾何學的結果 , 手勢辨識 , 機器學習 。
this is a victory of thousands of users , in hundreds of cities , one user , one edit at a time .	這是一場勝利 , 在數百個城市裡 , 一個使用者 , 一次編輯 。
this is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet .	這是我們70%未適應的星球邀請 。
welcome to the new world .	歡迎來到新世界 。
in 2003 , the palestinian village of budrus mounted a 10monthlong nonviolent protest to stop a barrier being built across their olive groves . did you hear about it ? didn't think so . brazilian filmmaker julia bacha asks why we only pay attention to violence in the israelpalestine conflict and not to the nonviolent leaders who may one day bring peace .	在2003年 , 布德魯斯山脈的巴勒斯坦村落在十個月長的非暴力抗議中 , 阻止一場阻止他們的橄欖球場 。 你聽說過嗎 ? 巴西的電影製作人juliabacha問我們為何只關注以色列巴勒斯坦衝突而非暴力的領導人 , 而非暴力領導者有一天可能會帶來和平 。
arts , communication , compassion , entertainment , film , peace , violence , war	藝術、溝通、同情、娛樂、電影、和平、暴力、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭 。
julia bacha: pay attention to nonviolence	朱莉亞.巴契亞:請注意非暴力的非暴力行為 。
for the last 8 years , i have dedicated my life to documenting the work of israelis and palestinians who are trying to end the conflict using peaceful means .	過去8年來 , 我致力於記錄以色列人和巴勒斯坦人試圖用和平的方式來結束衝突 。
when i travel with my work across europe and the united states , one question always comes up: where is the palestinian gandhi ?	當我在歐洲和美國旅行時 , 一個問題總是出現:巴勒斯坦甘地在哪裡 ?
why aren't palestinians using nonviolent resistance ?	為什麼巴勒斯坦人不使用非暴力抗爭 ?
the challenge i face when i hear this question is that often i have just returned from the middle east where i spent my time filming dozens of palestinians who are using nonviolence to defend their lands and water resources from israeli soldiers and settlers .	當我聽到這個問題時 , 我所面臨的挑戰是 , 通常我剛從中東返回 , 在那裡 , 我花了很多時間拍攝數十位巴勒斯坦人 , 他們用非暴力手段來保護他們的土地和水資源 , 以色列士兵和居民 。
these leaders are trying to forge a massive national nonviolent movement to end the occupation and build peace in the region .	這些領袖正試著要忘記一個大規模的國家非暴力運動 , 來終結這個職業 , 並在該地區建立和平 。
yet , most of you have probably never heard about them .	然而 , 大部分的人可能從來沒有聽過他們 。
this divide between what's happening on the ground and perceptions abroad is one of the key reasons why we don't have yet a palestinian peaceful resistance movement that has been successful .	這種分裂在地面和國外的感知上是我們尚未成功的巴勒斯坦和平抗爭運動的關鍵原因之一
so i'm here today to talk about the power of attention , the power of your attention , and the emergence and development of nonviolent movements in the west bank , gaza and elsewhere but today , my case study is going to be palestine .	所以今天我來這裡是要談注意力的力量 , 你的注意力 , 以及西銀行、加薩和其他地方非暴力運動的崛起和發展 , 但今天 , 我的案例研究將會是巴勒斯坦 。
i believe that what's mostly missing for nonviolence to grow is not for palestinians to start adopting nonviolence , but for us to start paying attention to those who already are .	我相信 , 成長過程中大部分缺少的非暴力行為 , 並不是為了巴勒斯坦人開始採用非暴力行為 , 而是要我們開始注意現有的人 。
allow me to illustrate this point by taking you to this village called budrus .	讓我來說明一下這一點 , 帶你到這個叫做布德魯斯的村莊 。
about seven years ago , they faced extinction , because israel announced it would build a separation barrier , and part of this barrier would be built on top of the village .	大約七年前 , 他們面臨絕種 , 因為以色列宣佈它會建立一個分離障礙 , 其中一部分的障礙會在村落頂端建造 。
they would lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded , so they would lose free access to the rest of the west bank .	他們會失去百分之四十的土地 , 被圍繞 , 所以他們會失去自由取得西岸的其他地方 。
through inspired local leadership , they launched a peaceful resistance campaign to stop that from happening .	透過當地的領導力 , 他們發起了一個和平的抗拒活動 , 來阻止它發生 。
let me show you some brief clips , so you have a sense for what that actually looked like on the ground .	讓我給你們看一些簡短的片段 , 所以你有一種感覺 , 來說明到底在地上是什麼樣子 。
palestinian woman: we were told the wall would separate palestine from israel .	巴勒斯坦女子:我們被告知牆會和以色列分開巴勒斯坦 。
here in budrus , we realized the wall would steal our land .	在布德魯斯 , 我們意識到牆會偷走我們的土地 。
israeli man: the fence has , in fact , created a solution to terror .	以色列男子:事實上 , 柵欄已經創造出了對恐怖的解答 。
man: today you're invited to a peaceful march .	男子:今天你被邀請去和平遊行 。
you are joined by dozens of your israeli brothers and sisters .	你被數十位以色列兄弟姐妹加入 。
israeli activist: nothing scares the army more than nonviolent opposition .	以色列行動主義者:軍隊比非暴力反對者更害怕 。
woman: we saw the men trying to push the soldiers , but none of them could do that .	女子:我們看到男人試圖推動士兵 , 但他們都無法做到 。
but i think the girls could do it .	但我認為女孩們可以做到 。
fatah party member: we must empty our minds of traditional thinking .	法塔赫派對成員:我們必須清空我們的傳統思維 。
hamas party member: we were in complete harmony , and we wanted to spread it to all of palestine .	哈馬斯派對成員:我們在完全和諧 , 我們想要把它傳播給所有的巴勒斯坦 。
chanting: one united nation .	旁白:一個聯合國 。
fatah , hamas and the popular front !	法塔、哈馬斯和受歡迎的前面 !
news anchor: the clashes over the fence continue .	新聞主持人:柵欄上的撞擊持續 。
reporter: israeli border police were sent to disperse the crowd .	記者:以色列邊境警察被送去散佈群眾 。
they were allowed to use any force necessary .	他們被允許使用任何必要的力量 。
man: these are live bullets .	男子:這些是活子彈 。
it's like fallujah . shooting everywhere .	這就像是羅瓦賈 , 到處拍攝 。
israeli activist: i was sure we were all going to die .	以色列行動主義者:我確信我們都要死 。
but there were others around me who weren't even cowering .	但我身邊還有一些人 , 甚至不在牛仔 。
israeli soldier: a nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear] .	以色列士兵:非暴力抗議不會停止 。
protester: this is a peaceful march .	提議員:這是和平遊行 。
there is no need to use violence .	不需要使用暴力 。
chanting: we can do it ! we can do it !	大聲說:我們能做到 ! 我們能做到 !
julia bacha: when i first heard about the story of budrus , i was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago , in 2003 .	朱莉亞.巴赫:當我第一次聽到布德魯斯的故事時 , 我很驚訝國際媒體並沒有報導七年前發生的非凡事件 , 那是在2003年 。
what was even more surprising was the fact that budrus was successful .	更令人驚訝的是布德魯斯成功了 。
the residents , after 10 months of peaceful resistance , convinced the israeli government to move the route of the barrier off their lands and to the green line , which is the internationally recognized boundary between israel and the palestinian territories .	居民 , 在十個月的和平抗爭之後 , 說服以色列政府把障礙移到他們的土地和綠線上 , 也就是國際認可以色列和巴勒斯坦領土之間的界線 。
the resistance in budrus has since spread to villages across the west bank and to palestinian neighborhoods in jerusalem .	布德魯斯的抗藥性從西岸散播到村落 , 到耶路撒冷的巴勒斯坦社區 。
yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories .	但媒體仍然沉默在這些故事上 。
this silence carries profound consequences for the likelihood that nonviolence can grow , or even survive , in palestine .	這種沉默對非暴力的可能造成深遠的影響 , 甚至在巴勒斯坦的可能性成長 。
violent resistance and nonviolent resistance share one very important thing in common ; they are both a form of theater seeking an audience to their cause .	暴力抗爭和非暴力抗爭 , 共有一件事非常重要 ; 它們是一場劇場尋找觀眾的原因 。
if violent actors are the only ones constantly getting frontpage covers and attracting international attention to the palestinian issue , it becomes very hard for nonviolent leaders to make the case to their communities that civil disobedience is a viable option in addressing their plight .	如果暴力演員是唯一經常收到的報導 , 吸引巴勒斯坦議題的國際注意力 , 那對非暴力領袖來說 , 公民不服從是有可行的選項 。
the power of attention is probably going to come as no surprise to the parents in the room .	注意力的力量可能是房間裡的父母不會感到驚訝 。
the surest way to make your child throw increasingly louder tantrums is by giving him attention the first time he throws a fit .	要讓你的孩子更大聲地丟棄幻肢的確切方法是首次給他注意他丟了一套套裝置 。
the tantrum will become what childhood psychologists call a functional behavior , since the child has learned that he can get parental attention out of it .	抗癌細胞會變成兒童心理學家稱之為功能性行為 , 因為孩子已經學會了他能從中得到父母的注意力 。
parents can incentivize or disincentivize behavior simply by giving or withdrawing attention to their children .	父母可以獎勵或不獎勵行為 , 只要給予或放棄對孩子的注意 。
but that's true for adults too .	但成年人也是如此 。
in fact , the behavior of entire communities and countries can be influenced , depending on where the international community chooses to focus its attention .	事實上 , 整個社區和國家的行為可能會受到影響 , 取決於國際社會選擇集中注意力的地方 。
i believe that at the core of ending the conflict in the middle east and bringing peace is for us to transform nonviolence into a functional behavior by giving a lot more attention to the nonviolent leaders on the ground today .	我相信 , 在中東結束衝突的核心 , 將和平帶給我們 , 將非暴力行為轉變成功能性行為 , 讓大家更關注現今地面上的非暴力領導者 。
in the course of taking my film to villages in the west bank , in gaza and in east jerusalem , i have seen the impact that even one documentary film can have in influencing the transformation .	在拍攝我的影片到西岸的村落 , 在加薩和東耶路撒冷 , 我看到了一部紀錄片可以影響轉變 。
in a village called wallajeh , which sits very close to jerusalem , the community was facing a very similar plight to budrus .	在一個叫瓦拉賈的村莊 , 非常靠近耶路撒冷的村莊 , 這個社區面臨著非常類似的布德魯斯 。
they were going to be surrounded , lose a lot of their lands and not have freedom of access , either to the west bank or jerusalem .	他們會被圍繞著 , 失去了很多土地 , 沒有自由取得 , 不論是西岸或耶路撒冷 。
they had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention .	他們花了兩年的時間在使用非暴力 , 但從來沒有人注意到這件事情 。
so we organized a screening .	所以我們組織了一個篩檢 。
a week later , they held the most wellattended and disciplined demonstration to date .	一個禮拜後 , 他們舉辦了最完善的示範 。
the organizers say that the villagers , upon seeing the story of budrus documented in a film , felt that there were indeed people following what they were doing , that people cared .	組織者說 , 村民在電影中看到布德魯斯的故事 , 感覺到確實有人追隨他們所做的事 , 人們關心的 。
so they kept on going .	所以他們繼續前進 。
on the israeli side , there is a new peace movement called solidariot , which means solidarity in hebrew .	在以色列的另一面 , 有一種新的和平運動 , 叫做索里達里特 , 意思是希伯來語的團結 。
the leaders of this movement have been using budrus as one of their primary recruiting tools .	這個運動的領導人 , 一直在用布德魯斯作為他們主要的招募工具之一 。
they report that israelis who had never been active before , upon seeing the film , understand the power of nonviolence and start joining their activities .	他們報告說 , 以色列人從來沒有活躍過 , 看電影 , 了解非暴力的力量 , 並開始參與他們的活動 。
the examples of wallajeh and the solidariot movement show that even a smallbudget independent film can play a role in transforming nonviolence into a functional behavior .	瓦哈和索里達州運動的例子顯示 , 即使是小型的獨立電影 , 也可以扮演非暴力行為的角色 。
now imagine the power that big media players could have if they started covering the weekly nonviolent demonstrations happening in villages like bil'in , ni'lin , wallajeh , in jerusalem neighborhoods like sheikh jarrah and silwan the nonviolent leaders would become more visible , valued and effective in their work .	想像一下 , 大型媒體玩家能擁有的力量如果他們開始報導每週的非暴力示威 , 例如bilin、ni''lin、瓦拉賈 , 在耶路撒冷的鄰里 , 像sikhjarrah和silwan , 非暴力領導者在工作中會變得更明顯、更有價值、更有效率 。
i believe that the most important thing is to understand that if we don't pay attention to these efforts , they are invisible , and it's as if they never happened .	我相信最重要的是要了解 , 如果我們不注意這些努力 , 它們是隱形的 , 就好像從未發生過 。
but i have seen first hand that if we do , they will multiply .	但我親眼見到如果我們這麼做 , 他們會乘以乘法 。
if they multiply , their influence will grow in the overall israelipalestinian conflict .	如果他們乘以增加 , 他們的影響會在以色列巴勒斯坦的衝突中成長 。
and theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation .	而他們的影響 , 終於可以解開這種情況 。
these leaders have proven that nonviolence works in places like budrus .	這些領袖證明了非暴力在布德魯斯這樣的地方工作 。
let's give them attention so they can prove it works everywhere .	讓我們給他們注意 , 讓他們可以證明它無所不在 。
simon sinek has a simple but powerful model for inspirational leadership all starting with a golden circle and the question " why ? " his examples include apple , martin luther king , and the wright brothers . . .	西蒙•海克有一個簡單且強大的靈感領導模式 , 始於黃金圓圈 , 以及 「 為什麼 ? 」 他的例子包括蘋果、馬丁•路德金、萊特兄弟......
bullseye , business , entrepreneur , leadership , sales , selling , success	bullseye、商業、企業家、領導力、銷售、銷售、成功、成功 。
simon sinek: how great leaders inspire action	西蒙•薩恩克:偉大的領導人有多激勵人心行動 。
how do you explain when things don't go as we assume ?	你要如何解釋當事情不像我們假設的那樣發生 ?
or better , how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions ?	或更好的 , 你要如何解釋當其他人能夠達成似乎違反所有假設時的成果 ?
for example: why is apple so innovative ?	舉例來說:為什麼蘋果這麼創新 ?
year after year , after year , after year , they're more innovative than all their competition .	年復一年 , 年復一年 , 他們比他們的競爭更創新 。
and yet , they're just a computer company .	然而 , 他們只是一家電腦公司 。
they're just like everyone else .	他們就像其他人一樣 。
they have the same access to the same talent , the same agencies , the same consultants , the same media .	他們有相同的才能 , 同一個機構 , 同一個顧問 , 同樣的媒體 。
then why is it that they seem to have something different ?	那麼 , 為什麼他們似乎有不同的東西 ?
why is it that martin luther king led the civil rights movement ?	為什麼馬丁路德王領導民權運動 ?
he wasn't the only man who suffered in a precivil rights america , and he certainly wasn't the only great orator of the day .	他不是唯一在美國受過處方權利的男人 , 而且他肯定不是當天唯一偉大的演員 。
and why is it that the wright brothers were able to figure out controlled , powered man flight when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified , better funded . . .	為何萊特兄弟能夠想出控制權、有電力飛行的男人 , 尤其是其他團隊 , 他們更有資格、更好的資金......
and they didn't achieve powered man flight , and the wright brothers beat them to it .	他們沒有達成驅動力的男人飛行 , 萊特兄弟對此打敗了 。
there's something else at play here .	這裡還有別的東西 。
about three and a half years ago i made a discovery .	大約三年半前 , 我做了一個發現 。
and this discovery profoundly changed my view on how i thought the world worked , and it even profoundly changed the way in which i operate in it .	這項發現深深改變了我對世界如何運作的看法 , 甚至徹底改變了我運作的方式 。
as it turns out , there's a pattern .	結果發現 , 有一種模式 。
as it turns out , all the great and inspiring leaders and organizations in the world whether it's apple or martin luther king or the wright brothers they all think , act and communicate the exact same way .	結果發現 , 世界上所有偉大的領導者和組織 , 無論是蘋果或馬丁•路德•金恩 , 或他們所想的萊特兄弟 , 採取行動和溝通的方式都一樣 。
and it's the complete opposite to everyone else .	完全相反 。
all i did was codify it , and it's probably the world's simplest idea .	我所做的只是將它編碼 , 可能是世界上最簡單的點子 。
i call it the golden circle .	我稱它為黃金圈 。
why ? how ? what ?	為什麼 ? 如何 ? 什麼 ?
this little idea explains why some organizations and some leaders are able to inspire where others aren't .	這個小點子解釋了為什麼有些組織和一些領導者能夠啟發其他人不在哪裡 。
let me define the terms really quickly .	讓我快速定義這個詞 。
every single person , every single organization on the planet knows what they do , 100 percent .	每個人 , 地球上的每個組織都知道他們在做什麼 , 百分之百 。
some know how they do it , whether you call it your differentiated value proposition or your proprietary process or your usp .	有人知道他們是怎麼做到的 , 不管你稱它為你的分化價值提議或是你的先進過程或是你的usp 。
but very , very few people or organizations know why they do what they do .	但很少人或組織知道他們為什麼要做他們要做的事 。
and by " why " i don't mean " to make a profit . "	所謂的 「 為什麼 」 , 我不是說 「 為了賺取利潤 」 。
that's a result . it's always a result .	結果就是這樣 。 結果總是 。
by " why , " i mean: what's your purpose ?	我的意思是:你的目的是什麼 ?
what's your cause ? what's your belief ?	你的原因是什麼 ? 你的信念是什麼 ?
why does your organization exist ?	你的組織為什麼存在 ?
why do you get out of bed in the morning ?	為何你早上起床 ?
and why should anyone care ?	為什麼有人會在乎 ?
well , as a result , the way we think , the way we act , the way we communicate is from the outside in .	因此 , 我們認為我們行為的方式 , 我們溝通的方式來自外界 。
it's obvious . we go from the clearest thing to the fuzziest thing .	很明顯 。 我們從最清晰的東西到最模糊的東西 。
but the inspired leaders and the inspired organizations regardless of their size , regardless of their industry all think , act and communicate from the inside out .	但鼓舞領袖和激勵人心的組織 , 不論他們的大小 , 不論他們的產業都在想 , 行動和溝通 。
let me give you an example .	讓我舉個例子 。
i use apple because they're easy to understand and everybody gets it .	我用蘋果 , 因為他們很容易理解 , 每個人都懂 。
if apple were like everyone else , a marketing message from them might sound like this: " we make great computers .	如果蘋果跟其他人一樣 , 他們的行銷訊息可能聽起來像這樣: 「 我們製造了很棒的電腦 。
they're beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	他們設計得很漂亮 , 很容易使用和使用者友善 。
want to buy one ? " " meh . "	想買一台嗎 ? 「 梅 。 」
and that's how most of us communicate .	這就是我們大多數人溝通的方式 。
that's how most marketing is done , that's how most sales is done and that's how most of us communicate interpersonally .	這就是多數行銷的方法 , 多數銷售的做法 , 這就是我們多數人之間的交流方式 。
we say what we do , we say how we're different or how we're better and we expect some sort of a behavior , a purchase , a vote , something like that .	我們說我們怎麼做 , 我們說我們是如何不同 , 或是我們好好多 , 我們期待某種行為、購買、投票 , 等等 。
here's our new law firm: we have the best lawyers with the biggest clients , we always perform for our clients who do business with us .	這是我們的新法律公司:我們有最好的律師和最大客戶 , 我們總是為我們的客戶做生意 。
here's our new car: it gets great gas mileage , it has leather seats , buy our car .	這是我們的新車:它有很大的氣體里程碑 , 它有皮革座椅 , 買我們的車 。
here's how apple actually communicates .	蘋果是這樣溝通的 。
" everything we do , we believe in challenging the status quo .	「 我們所做的一切 , 我們相信挑戰現狀 。
we believe in thinking differently .	我們用不同的方式相信思考 。
the way we challenge the status quo is by making our products beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	我們挑戰現狀的方式是讓我們的產品美麗設計 , 簡單的使用和使用者友善地使用 。
we just happen to make great computers .	我們剛好製造出很棒的電腦
want to buy one ? "	想買一台嗎 ? 」
totally different right ? you're ready to buy a computer from me .	完全不同了嗎 ? 你準備好要從我身上買一台電腦 。
all i did was reverse the order of the information .	我所做的只是逆轉資訊的順序 。
what it proves to us is that people don't buy what you do ; people buy why you do it .	它向我們證明的是人們不買你做什麼 ; 人們購買你為什麼要做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 。
this explains why every single person in this room is perfectly comfortable buying a computer from apple .	這解釋了為什麼在這間房間裡的每個人都很舒服從蘋果買一台電腦 。
but we're also perfectly comfortable buying an mp3 player from apple , or a phone from apple , or a dvr from apple .	但我們也很舒服地買蘋果電腦的mp3玩家 , 或蘋果手機 , 或蘋果電腦的dvr 。
but , as i said before , apple's just a computer company .	但 , 如我之前所說的 , 蘋果只是一家電腦公司 。
there's nothing that distinguishes them structurally from any of their competitors .	沒有什麼能區別他們的競爭者的結構 。
their competitors are all equally qualified to make all of these products .	他們的競爭者都同樣有資格來製造這些產品 。
in fact , they tried .	事實上 , 他們嘗試了 。
a few years ago , gateway came out with flat screen tvs .	幾年前 , 蓋茨維出了平面的螢幕電視 。
they're eminently qualified to make flat screen tvs .	他們很有資格來製作平面電視 。
they've been making flat screen monitors for years .	多年來 , 他們一直在製作平面螢幕螢幕 。
dell came out with mp3 players and pdas , and they make great quality products , and they can make perfectly welldesigned products and nobody bought one .	戴爾和帕德斯出櫃 , 他們製作了很棒的品質產品 , 他們可以做出非常好的設計產品 , 沒有人買 。
in fact , talking about it now , we can't even imagine buying an mp3 player from dell .	事實上 , 談到現在 , 我們甚至無法想像從dell買一台mp3播放器 。
why would you buy an mp3 player from a computer company ?	為什麼你要從一家電腦公司買一台mp3播放器 ?
but we do it every day .	但我們每天都這麼做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 。
the goal is not to do business with everybody who needs what you have .	目標不是要和所有需要你的東西做生意 。
the goal is to do business with people who believe what you believe .	目標是要和那些相信你所相信的人們做生意 。
here's the best part: none of what i'm telling you is my opinion .	最好的部分是:我所說的都不是我的意見 。
it's all grounded in the tenets of biology .	一切都基於生物學的基礎 。
not psychology , biology .	不是心理學、生物學 。
if you look at a crosssection of the human brain , looking from the top down , what you see is the human brain is actually broken into three major components that correlate perfectly with the golden circle .	如果你看一下人類大腦的十字路口 , 從頭向下看 , 你看到的是人類的大腦實際上被分成三個主要元件 , 完全與黃金圈有關聯 。
our newest brain , our homo sapien brain , our neocortex , corresponds with the " what " level .	我們最新的大腦 , 我們的智人腦 , 我們的新皮層 , 會對應 「 什麼 」 的程度 。
the neocortex is responsible for all of our rational and analytical thought and language .	新皮層負責所有理性、分析思維和語言 。
the middle two sections make up our limbic brains , and our limbic brains are responsible for all of our feelings , like trust and loyalty .	中間的兩個區塊構成我們的大腦 , 我們的肢體大腦負責我們所有的感覺 , 比如信任和忠誠 。
it's also responsible for all human behavior , all decisionmaking , and it has no capacity for language .	它也要為所有人類行為負責 , 所有的決策 , 沒有語言的能力 。
in other words , when we communicate from the outside in , yes , people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features and benefits and facts and figures .	換句話說 , 當我們從外面溝通時 , 是的 , 人們可以了解大量複雜的資訊 , 比如特徵、好處、事實和數字 。
it just doesn't drive behavior .	它並不會驅動行為 。
when we can communicate from the inside out , we're talking directly to the part of the brain that controls behavior , and then we allow people to rationalize it with the tangible things we say and do .	當我們從內部溝通時 , 我們直接和控制行為的大腦溝通 , 接著 , 我們允許人們用我們所說和做的事來合理化 。
this is where gut decisions come from .	這就是腸子決定的來源 。
you know , sometimes you can give somebody all the facts and figures , and they say , " i know what all the facts and details say , but it just doesn't feel right . "	你知道 , 有時候你可以給某人所有的事實和數字 , 他們說: 「 我知道所有事實和細節都說了什麼 , 但感覺不對 。 」
why would we use that verb , it doesn't " feel " right ?	為什麼我們要用那個動詞 , 感覺不對 ?
because the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking doesn't control language .	因為控制決策的部分無法控制語言 。
and the best we can muster up is , " i don't know . it just doesn't feel right . "	我們最好的一點是: 「 我不知道 , 感覺不對 。 」
or sometimes you say you're leading with your heart , or you're leading with your soul .	或者 , 有時你會說你帶著你的心 , 或你帶著你的靈魂去領導 。
well , i hate to break it to you , those aren't other body parts controlling your behavior .	我討厭打破它 , 不是其他身體部位控制你的行為 。
it's all happening here in your limbic brain , the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking and not language .	這一切都發生在你肢體的大腦中 , 控制決策的部分 , 而非語言 。
but if you don't know why you do what you do , and people respond to why you do what you do , then how will you ever get people to vote for you , or buy something from you , or , more importantly , be loyal and want to be a part of what it is that you do .	但如果你不知道為什麼要做你要做的事 , 大家會回應為什麼要做你要做的事 , 那麼你要如何讓人們投票給你 , 或從你身上買東西 , 或是更重要的是忠誠 , 想要成為你所做的事的一部分 。
again , the goal is not just to sell to people who need what you have ; the goal is to sell to people who believe what you believe .	同樣的 , 目標不只是賣給需要你擁有的東西的人 ; 目標是賣給那些相信你所相信的人們 。
the goal is not just to hire people who need a job ; it's to hire people who believe what you believe .	目標不只是要僱用需要工作的人 , 而是僱用那些相信你所相信的人們 。
i always say that , you know , if you hire people just because they can do a job , they'll work for your money , but if you hire people who believe what you believe , they'll work for you with blood and sweat and tears .	我總是說 , 如果你雇用別人 , 只因為他們能做一份工作 , 他們會為你的錢工作 , 但如果你雇用那些相信你所相信的人 , 他們會為你工作 , 用血汗和淚水 。
and nowhere else is there a better example of this than with the wright brothers .	沒有其他比萊特兄弟更好的例子 。
most people don't know about samuel pierpont langley .	大多數人不知道samuelpierpontlangley 。
and back in the early 20th century , the pursuit of powered man flight was like the dot com of the day .	在20世紀早期 , 追求人類飛行的追求就像是日常的地點 。
everybody was trying it .	每個人都在嘗試 。
and samuel pierpont langley had , what we assume , to be the recipe for success .	samuelpierpontlangley認為我們是成功的秘訣 。
i mean , even now , you ask people , " why did your product or why did your company fail ? "	我的意思是 , 即使現在 , 你問人們: 「 為什麼你的產品或為什麼你的公司失敗 ? 」
and people always give you the same permutation of the same three things: undercapitalized , the wrong people , bad market conditions .	人們總是給你相同的三件事:被制定、錯誤的人、不好的市場條件 。
it's always the same three things , so let's explore that .	一直都是一樣的三件事 , 讓我們來探究一下 。
samuel pierpont langley was given 50 , 000 dollars by the war department to figure out this flying machine .	samuelpierpontlangley得到了五萬美金 , 由於戰爭部門提供了這台飛行機器 。
money was no problem .	金錢不是問題 。
he held a seat at harvard and worked at the smithsonian and was extremely wellconnected ; he knew all the big minds of the day .	他在哈佛舉辦了一座西雅圖 , 在史密森尼工作 , 非常有連結 , 他知道當天的所有大頭腦 。
he hired the best minds money could find and the market conditions were fantastic .	他雇用了最好的思想金錢可以找到市場條件很棒 。
the new york times followed him around everywhere , and everyone was rooting for langley .	紐約時報隨後到處追蹤他 , 每個人都根深蒂固 。
then how come we've never heard of samuel pierpont langley ?	為什麼我們從來沒有聽過samuelpierpontlangley ?
a few hundred miles away in dayton ohio , orville and wilbur wright , they had none of what we consider to be the recipe for success .	在俄亥俄州的幾百英里外 , 奧維爾和威爾布萊特 , 他們沒有我們認為成功的秘訣 。
they had no money ; they paid for their dream with the proceeds from their bicycle shop ; not a single person on the wright brothers' team had a college education , not even orville or wilbur ; and the new york times followed them around nowhere .	他們沒有錢 , 他們付錢給他們的夢想 , 拿著自行車店的執行長 ; 萊特兄弟的團隊裡沒有一個人有大學教育 , 甚至不是奧維爾或威爾堡 ; 紐約時報隨他們到處追蹤 。
the difference was , orville and wilbur were driven by a cause , by a purpose , by a belief .	差別在於 , 俄維爾和威爾布爾被一個理由所驅使 , 由一個理由 , 一個理想的信念 。
they believed that if they could figure out this flying machine , it'll change the course of the world .	他們相信如果他們能找出這台飛行機器 , 它會改變世界的軌道 。
samuel pierpont langley was different .	samuelpierpontlangley不同 。
he wanted to be rich , and he wanted to be famous .	他想當有錢人 , 他想要有名 。
he was in pursuit of the result .	他在追求結果 。
he was in pursuit of the riches .	他追求富人 。
and lo and behold , look what happened .	看 , 看看發生了什麼事 。
the people who believed in the wright brothers' dream worked with them with blood and sweat and tears .	相信萊特兄弟的夢想與他們合作 , 用血液、汗水和淚水 。
the others just worked for the paycheck .	其他人只是為了支付而工作 。
and they tell stories of how every time the wright brothers went out , they would have to take five sets of parts , because that's how many times they would crash before they came in for supper .	他們會說故事 , 關於每次萊特兄弟出去 , 他們就得拿五組零件 , 因為他們在購買商品之前會撞到多少次 。
and , eventually , on december 17th , 1903 , the wright brothers took flight , and no one was there to even experience it .	最終 , 在1903年12月17日 , 萊特兄弟搭飛機 , 沒有人會去體驗它 。
we found out about it a few days later .	幾天後 , 我們發現了這件事 。
and further proof that langley was motivated by the wrong thing: the day the wright brothers took flight , he quit .	更進一步的證明 , 萊特兄弟踏上飛機 , 他辭掉了 。
he could have said , " that's an amazing discovery , guys , and i will improve upon your technology , " but he didn't .	他可以說: 「 那是個很棒的發現 , 各位 , 我會改善你的科技 。 」 但他沒有 。
he wasn't first , he didn't get rich , he didn't get famous so he quit .	他不是首先 , 他沒有富有 , 他沒有有名 , 所以他辭掉 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 。
and if you talk about what you believe , you will attract those who believe what you believe .	如果你談到你所相信的 , 你會吸引那些相信你所相信的人們 。
but why is it important to attract those who believe what you believe ?	但為什麼要吸引那些相信你所相信的人們 ?
something called the law of diffusion of innovation , and if you don't know the law , you definitely know the terminology .	所謂的創新法則 , 如果你不知道法律 , 你絕對知道這個條例 。
the first two and a half percent of our population are our innovators .	前2.5%的人口是我們的創新者 。
the next 13 and a half percent of our population are our early adopters .	接下來的13.5%的人是我們早期的採用者 。
the next 34 percent are your early majority , your late majority and your laggards .	接下來的34%是你早期的大多數 , 遲到的多數 , 遲到的階層 。
the only reason these people buy touch tone phones is because you can't buy rotary phones anymore .	這些人只買觸覺電話的唯一原因 , 就是因為你再也買不到輪椅手機了 。
we all sit at various places at various times on this scale , but what the law of diffusion of innovation tells us is that if you want massmarket success or massmarket acceptance of an idea , you cannot have it until you achieve this tipping point between 15 and 18 percent market penetration , and then the system tips .	我們都坐在不同的階段 , 但創新的傳播法則告訴我們 , 如果你想要大眾市場成功或大眾市場接受想法 , 直到你達成了15%到18%的市場侵入之間的轉折點 , 然後系統會短暫 。
and i love asking businesses , " what's your conversion on new business ? "	我喜歡問企業: 「 你對新生意的轉換是什麼 ? 」
and they love to tell you , " oh , it's about 10 percent , " proudly .	他們很愛告訴你: 「 喔 , 大約10% 。 」 很驕傲 。
well , you can trip over 10 percent of the customers .	嗯 , 你可以超過百分之十的客戶 。
we all have about 10 percent who just " get it . "	我們都有百分之十的 「 得到 」 。
that's how we describe them , right ?	這就是我們描述它們的方式 , 對吧 ?
that's like that gut feeling , " oh , they just get it . "	就好像那種直覺: 「 喔 , 他們才剛懂 。 」
the problem is: how do you find the ones that get it before you're doing business with them versus the ones who don't get it ?	問題是:你要如何在你和他們做生意之前找到那些能得到的 , 而不是那些沒有得到的 ?
so it's this here , this little gap that you have to close , as jeffrey moore calls it , " crossing the chasm " because , you see , the early majority will not try something until someone else has tried it first .	所以 , 在這裡 , 這個小小的鴻溝 , 如同傑佛瑞•摩爾稱它為 「 跨越這間鴻溝 」 , 因為 , 你看 , 早期大多數人都不會嘗試 , 直到別人先試過 。
and these guys , the innovators and the early adopters , they're comfortable making those gut decisions .	這些人 , 創新者和早期採用者 , 他們很舒服地做出那些直覺決策 。
they're more comfortable making those intuitive decisions that are driven by what they believe about the world and not just what product is available .	他們更自在地做出那些直覺的決策 , 由他們對世界的信念所驅動 , 而不只是產品所能取得的 。
these are the people who stood in line for six hours to buy an iphone when they first came out , when you could have just walked into the store the next week and bought one off the shelf .	這些人 , 第一次出櫃時 , 站了六個小時 , 買一支iphone , 當你下星期可以走進店裡 , 買了一台貨架 。
these are the people who spent 40 , 000 dollars on flat screen tvs when they first came out , even though the technology was substandard .	這些人 , 第一次出櫃時 , 花了四萬美金在平面電視上 , 儘管科技是被貼上 。
and , by the way , they didn't do it because the technology was so great ; they did it for themselves .	順道一提 , 他們並沒有這麼做 , 因為科技太棒了 , 他們為自己做了 。
it's because they wanted to be first .	因為他們想要成為第一 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it and what you do simply proves what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 , 而你所做的就是證明你所相信的 。
in fact , people will do the things that prove what they believe .	事實上 , 人們會做那些證明他們所相信的事 。
the reason that person bought the iphone in the first six hours , stood in line for six hours , was because of what they believed about the world , and how they wanted everybody to see them: they were first .	前六個小時買iphone的原因 , 站在線上六個小時 , 是因為他們對世界的信念 , 以及他們想讓每個人都看到的:他們是第一個 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 。
so let me give you a famous example , a famous failure and a famous success of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我舉一個有名的例子 , 一個有名的失敗以及一個有名的成功 , 關於創新的散播法則 。
first , the famous failure .	首先 , 著名的失敗 。
it's a commercial example .	這是一個商業的例子 。
as we said before , a second ago , the recipe for success is money and the right people and the right market conditions , right ? you should have success then .	如我們先前所說的 , 成功的秘訣是金錢 , 適當的人和市場條件 , 對吧 ? 你當時應該要成功 。
from the time tivo came out about eight or nine years ago to this current day , they are the single highestquality product on the market , hands down , there is no dispute .	從八、九年前開始 , tivo出現在現今的時代 , 他們是市場上最高品質的產品 , 下降 , 沒有爭議 。
they were extremely wellfunded .	他們非常受歡迎 。
market conditions were fantastic .	市場條件很棒 。
i mean , we use tivo as verb .	我的意思是 , 我們把tivo當作動詞 。
i tivo stuff on my piece of junk time warner dvr all the time .	我常常在垃圾筒裡提取一些東西 , 像是華納dvr 。
but tivo's a commercial failure .	但tivo是個商業失敗 。
they've never made money .	他們從來沒有賺到錢 。
and when they went ipo , their stock was at about 30 or 40 dollars and then plummeted , and it's never traded above 10 .	當他們去ipo時 , 他們的股票大約是30或40美金 , 然後被拔掉 , 從來沒有交易超過10 。
in fact , i don't think it's even traded above six , except for a couple of little spikes .	事實上 , 我不認為它已經超過六次了 , 只不過幾次 。
because you see , when tivo launched their product they told us all what they had .	因為你看 , 當tivo推出他們的產品時 , 他們告訴我們他們所有的產品 。
they said , " we have a product that pauses live tv , skips commercials , rewinds live tv and memorizes your viewing habits without you even asking . "	他們說: 「 我們有一種產品 , 暫停現場電視、滑雪廣告、重製現場電視 , 並記住你看不到的習慣 。 」
and the cynical majority said , " we don't believe you .	絕大多數的憤世嫉俗說: 「 我們不相信你 。
we don't need it . we don't like it .	我們不需要它 。 我們不喜歡它 。
you're scaring us . "	你害怕我們 。 」
what if they had said , " if you're the kind of person who likes to have total control over every aspect of your life , boy , do we have a product for you .	如果他們說: 「 如果你是那種喜歡完全控制你的人生的那種人 , 男孩 , 我們有產品給你 。
it pauses live tv , skips commercials , memorizes your viewing habits , etc . , etc . "	它會暫停現場電視 , 跳過廣告 , 記住你的觀看習慣等等 。 」
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it , and what you do simply serves as the proof of what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 , 而你所做的就是證明你所相信的 。
now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation .	現在讓我舉一個成功的例子 , 說明創新的擴散法則 。
in the summer of 1963 , 250 , 000 people showed up on the mall in washington to hear dr . king speak .	1963年夏天 , 有25萬人出現在華盛頓的商場上 , 聽見金恩博士演講 。
they sent out no invitations , and there was no website to check the date .	他們沒有邀請 , 也沒有網站來檢查約會 。
how do you do that ?	你怎麼做呢 ?
well , dr . king wasn't the only man in america who was a great orator .	嗯 , 金恩博士不是美國唯一一個偉大的演員 。
he wasn't the only man in america who suffered in a precivil rights america .	他不是美國唯一受過處方權利的男人 。
in fact , some of his ideas were bad .	事實上 , 他的一些想法很糟 。
but he had a gift .	但他有一個禮物 。
he didn't go around telling people what needed to change in america .	他沒有四處走去告訴人們在美國需要改變什麼 。
he went around and told people what he believed .	他四處走來告訴人們他所相信的 。
" i believe , i believe , i believe , " he told people .	「 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 , 」 他告訴別人 。
and people who believed what he believed took his cause , and they made it their own , and they told people .	而相信他所相信的人們 , 相信他採取了他的理由 , 他們自己做出來 , 他們告訴人們 。
and some of those people created structures to get the word out to even more people .	有些人創造了結構 , 讓更多人知道這個詞 。
and lo and behold , 250 , 000 people showed up on the right day at the right time to hear him speak .	你看 , 有25萬人在正確的日子上出現 , 聽到他說話 。
how many of them showed up for him ?	有多少人來找他 ?
they showed up for themselves .	他們為自己出現 。
it's what they believed about america that got them to travel in a bus for eight hours to stand in the sun in washington in the middle of august .	他們相信美國能讓他們在車上旅行八個小時 , 站在華盛頓的陽光下 。
it's what they believed , and it wasn't about black versus white: 25 percent of the audience was white .	這是他們所相信的 , 重點不是黑人對白:25%的觀眾是白人 。
dr . king believed that there are two types of laws in this world: those that are made by a higher authority and those that are made by man .	金恩博士相信世上有兩種法律:更高權威的法律和那些由人類所構成的法律 。
and not until all the laws that are made by man are consistent with the laws that are made by the higher authority will we live in a just world .	直到人類所制定的所有法律都與我們在公義世界裡更高權威的法律一致 。
it just so happened that the civil rights movement was the perfect thing to help him bring his cause to life .	剛好 , 民權運動是幫助他帶來他的生命的最佳成因 。
we followed , not for him , but for ourselves .	我們追隨 , 不是為了他 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and , by the way , he gave the " i have a dream " speech , not the " i have a plan " speech .	順道一提 , 他給了 「 我有一個夢想 」 演講 , 而不是 「 我有計畫 」 演講 。
listen to politicians now , with their comprehensive 12point plans .	現在聽聽政治人物 , 用他們全面的12種植物 。
they're not inspiring anybody .	他們沒有鼓舞任何人 。
because there are leaders and there are those who lead .	因為有領導者和領導者 。
leaders hold a position of power or authority , but those who lead inspire us .	領導者持有權力或權威的立場 , 但領導者鼓舞了我們 。
whether they're individuals or organizations , we follow those who lead , not because we have to , but because we want to .	不論是個人或組織 , 我們遵守領導者 , 不是因為我們必須這麼做 , 而是因為我們想要 。
we follow those who lead , not for them , but for ourselves .	我們追蹤那些領導的人 , 不是為了他們 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and it's those who start with " why " that have the ability to inspire those around them or find others who inspire them .	是那些從 「 為什麼 」 開始的人 , 他們有能力去啟發他們身邊的人 , 或找到鼓舞他們的人 。
how do you remember where you parked your car ? how do you know if you're moving in the right direction ? neuroscientist neil burgess studies the neural mechanisms that map the space around us , and how they link to memory and imagination .	你要如何記住你停在哪裡 ? 你要怎麼知道你要往正確的方向移動 ? 神經科學家尼爾負責研究地圖周遭空間的神經機制 , 以及他們如何連結記憶和想像力 。
brain , cognitive science , exploration , neuroscience , science	大腦、認知科學、探索、神經科學、科學、科學、科學 。
neil burgess: how your brain tells you where you are	尼爾堡:你的大腦告訴你你在哪裡 。
when we park in a big parking lot , how do we remember where we parked our car ?	當我們在一個大停車場停車場時 , 我們要如何記住我們停車的地方 ?
here's the problem facing homer .	問題是 , 面對家長的問題 。
and we're going to try to understand what's happening in his brain .	我們會試著去了解他的大腦發生了什麼事 。
so we'll start with the hippocampus , shown in yellow , which is the organ of memory .	我們先從海馬體開始 , 黃色代表記憶的器官 。
if you have damage there , like in alzheimer's , you can't remember things including where you parked your car .	如果你有損傷 , 像阿茲海默症 , 你無法記住 , 包括你停車的地方 。
it's named after latin for " seahorse , " which it resembles .	它是以拉丁文為 「 海馬 」 的名字命名 , 它是相似的 。
and like the rest of the brain , it's made of neurons .	就像大腦的其他部分 , 它是由神經元組成的 。
so the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it .	人類的大腦大約有一千億個神經元 。
and the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other .	神經元互相溝通 , 藉由發送小脈衝或電刺激彼此連結 。
the hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells , which are very densely interconnected .	海馬體是由兩片細胞組成的 , 密度非常緊密 。
and scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food .	科學家開始了解空間記憶如何運作 , 藉由記錄老鼠或老鼠的個別神經元 , 或是探索尋找食物的環境 。
so we're going to imagine we're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here .	所以 , 我們將想像我們從這隻老鼠的海馬體中紀錄下來 。
and when it fires a little spike of electricity , there's going to be a red dot and a click .	當它發出電量時 , 就會有一個紅點和點擊 。
so what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment .	我們看到的是 , 這種神經元知道 , 每當老鼠進入一個特定的地方 。
and it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike .	它會訊號到大腦的其他部位 , 藉由發送小小的電擊 。
so we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal's location .	所以 , 我們可以把神經元的發射速度顯示為動物的位置 。
and if we record from lots of different neurons , we'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment , like in this square box shown here .	如果我們從許多不同的神經元記錄下來 , 我們會看到當動物在環境中的不同區域出現不同的神經元 , 比如這個正方形的盒子中 。
so together they form a map for the rest of the brain , telling the brain continually , " where am i now within my environment ? "	所以他們一起為其餘的大腦建立了一張地圖 , 不斷地告訴大腦: 「 我現在在我的環境中是哪裡 ? 」
place cells are also being recorded in humans .	位置細胞也被記錄在人體中 。
so epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring .	所以癲癇患者有時需要腦部監控的電活動 。
and some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town .	有些病人玩了電玩遊戲 , 他們開車到一個小鎮 。
and place cells in their hippocampi would fire , become active , start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town .	把它們的髖骨細胞放進去 , 變成活性 , 開始發送電脈衝 , 每當它們穿過那個小鎮時 。
so how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment ?	那麼 , 一個地方細胞怎麼知道老鼠或人在其環境中的位置 ?
well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important .	這兩個細胞告訴我們 , 環境的邊界是特別重要的 。
so the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat's in .	所以 , 上面的那個 , 像是在盒子裡的牆壁上開火 ,
and when you expand the box , the firing location expands .	當你擴展盒子時 , 發射位置會擴張 。
the one below likes to fire whenever there's a wall close by to the south .	下面的那一面 , 每當有一面牆靠近南方時都會喜歡火 。
and if you put another wall inside the box , then the cell fires in both place wherever there's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box .	如果你把另一面牆放在盒子裡 , 細胞就會在兩個地方發射 , 無論在裡面有一面牆 , 作為動物在其盒子裡探索 。
so this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you extended buildings and so on is particularly important for the hippocampus .	這種預測會感應到你周圍的邊界和方向 , 延伸到大樓之外 , 尤其對海馬體來說是很重要的 。
and indeed , on the inputs to the hippocampus , cells are found which project into the hippocampus , which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it's exploring around .	的確 , 在海馬體的輸入上 , 細胞會發現 , 會進入海馬體中 , 會反應出偵測邊界或邊緣 , 特定位置的特定位置 , 和從老鼠或老鼠探索時的方向 。
so the cell on the left , you can see , it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east , whether it's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table , which the animals are running around .	左邊的細胞 , 你可以看到 , 當動物靠近東邊的牆壁或邊界時 , 它會發出火 , 不論是方形的邊緣 , 或是圓形的牆 , 或是圓形的圓形牆 , 或甚至是桌子的邊緣 。
and the cell on the right there fires whenever there's a boundary to the south , whether it's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart .	右邊的細胞 , 每當南方有邊界 , 不論是桌面或牆壁的邊緣 , 或甚至兩個桌子之間的落差 。
so that's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it's exploring around .	這就是我們認為位置細胞的一種方式決定動物在周圍探索的位置 。
we can also test where we think objects are , like this goal flag , in simple environments or indeed , where your car would be .	我們也可以檢測我們認為物體的位置 , 像是這個目標旗 , 在簡單的環境中 , 或你的車會在哪裡 。
so we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember .	所以 , 我們可以讓人們探索一個環境 , 看看他們必須記得的位置 。
and then , if we put them back in the environment , generally they're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was .	然後 , 如果我們把它們放回環境中 , 通常它們很擅長把標記放到他們認為旗子或車子的位置 。
but on some trials , we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell .	但在某些試驗中 , 我們可以改變環境的形狀和大小 , 就像我們用的位置細胞一樣 。
in that case , we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment .	在這個例子中 , 我們可以看到旗幟是如何改變你如何改變環境的形狀和尺寸 。
and what you see , for example , if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment , and then if you ask people where it was , but you've made the environment bigger , where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out .	舉例來說 , 如果國旗在一個小方形的環境中 , 交叉的位置就在一個小方形的環境中 , 如果你問人們它在哪裡 , 但你讓環境變大了 , 他們認為旗幟被用完全相同的方式將細胞發射出來 。
it's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location , and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern .	就好像你還記得旗幟的位置 , 藉由儲存所有位置細胞的模式 , 儲存在你所在位置的位置 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 這樣你就能最好配合你位置細胞的目前模式 , 以儲存的模式來運作 。
that guides you back to the location that you want to remember .	那會引導你回到你想要記得的地點 。
but we also know where we are through movement .	但我們也知道我們在運動中處於何處 。
so if we take some outbound path perhaps we park and we wander off we know because our own movements , which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back .	所以 , 如果我們採取一些外界的路徑 , 或許我們停了下來 , 我們會知道 , 因為我們的動作 , 我們可以將這個路徑整合起來 , 大約是頭向後走的方向 。
and place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell .	位置細胞也得到這種通路綜合輸入 , 來自一種叫做網格細胞的細胞 。
now grid cells are found , again , on the inputs to the hippocampus , and they're a bit like place cells .	網格細胞又被發現在海馬體的輸入上 , 它們有點像地方細胞 。
but now as the rat explores around , each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid .	但當老鼠四處探索時 , 每個細胞都在一系列不同的位置上發射 , 在一個非常規則的三角形格子裡 。
and if you record from several grid cells shown here in different colors each one has a gridlike firing pattern across the environment , and each cell's gridlike firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells .	如果你從幾種格細胞中記錄下來 , 每一種顏色都有類似網格的發射模式 , 每一種細胞的發射模式會稍微改變對方的細胞 。
so the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one .	紅色的 , 在這個格子上發火 , 綠色的 , 藍色的在這個格子上 。
so together , it's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you'd find on a map , but using triangles .	所以 , 整體來說 , 老鼠可以把虛擬的網格放到周圍的環境中 , 有點像是你在地圖上找到的緯度和長距離線 , 但使用三角形 。
and as it moves around , the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is , so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment .	當它四處移動時 , 電活動可以從其中一個細胞傳遞到下一個細胞 , 一直追蹤它的位置 , 這樣它就可以用它自己的動作來了解它在環境中的位置 。
do people have grid cells ?	人們有網格細胞嗎 ?
well because all of the gridlike firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry , the same orientations of grid , shown in orange here , it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between .	因為所有的電網發射圖案都有相同的對稱軸 , 這裡的橘色標示著橘色的方向 , 意思是 , 所有電網的電網活動都應該根據我們在這六個方向跑的方向來改變 , 或在兩者之間的六個方向跑 。
so we can put people in an mri scanner and have them do a little video game like the one i showed you and look for this signal .	所以 , 我們可以把人放進核磁共振儀中 , 讓他們做一個小小的電玩遊戲 , 就像我給你們看的一樣 , 去尋找這個訊號 。
and indeed , you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex , which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats .	的確 , 在人類的牙齒皮質中 , 它也是你在老鼠身上看到的電網細胞的一部分 。
so back to homer .	回到荷馬 。
he's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked .	他可能還記得他的車位在距離和方向的位置 , 將建築和界線延伸到他停的位置 。
and that would be represented by the firing of boundarydetecting cells .	這會由邊界偵測細胞的發射來呈現 。
he's also remembering the path he took out of the car park , which would be represented in the firing of grid cells .	他還記得他從汽車公園走出來的道路 , 在發射網格細胞的邊緣 。
now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire .	兩種細胞都可以讓位置細胞發射 。
and he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car .	他可以回到他停下來的位置 , 讓他能移動的位置 , 找到在他大腦中位置細胞的最佳配對模式 , 以儲存的模式 , 讓他停車的車 。
and that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car's actually there .	那引導他回到那個視覺暗示的位置 , 像是他的車真的在那裡 。
maybe it's been towed .	也許它已經被告知了 。
but he knows where it was , so he knows to go and get it .	但他知道它在哪裡 , 所以他知道要去哪裡找到它 。
so beyond spatial memory , if we look for this gridlike firing pattern throughout the whole brain , we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks , like remembering the last time you went to a wedding , for example .	所以 , 除了空間記憶之外 , 如果我們在整個大腦中尋找類似網格的發射模式 , 我們會看到一系列的地點 , 當我們做各式各樣的自傳記憶任務時 , 比如記得你上次去婚禮的時候 。
so it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene , at least , of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them .	所以 , 可能是神經機制 , 代表我們周圍的空間 , 也被用來產生視覺影像 , 這樣我們才能重建空間場景 , 至少 , 當我們想要想像它們時 , 發生的事件 。
so if this was happening , your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint .	所以 , 如果這發生了 , 你的記憶可以從細胞開始啟動 , 透過這些密集的交互作用 , 再次啟動邊界細胞 , 來創造你周圍的景象空間結構 。
and grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space .	網格細胞可以透過這個空間移動這個視角 。
another kind of cell , head direction cells , which i didn't mention yet , they fire like a compass according to which way you're facing .	另一種細胞 , 頭部方向細胞 , 我還沒提到 , 它們就像你面臨的指南一樣 。
they could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery , so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding , for example .	他們可以定義你想要為你的視覺圖像創造出一張圖像 , 你可以想像當你在婚禮上發生什麼事 。
so this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains .	這只是新時代的一個例子 , 在認知神經科學中 , 我們開始了解心理的過程 , 比如你如何記得、想像 , 甚至以數十億個神經元的行為來思考 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
imagine a global security driven by collaboration among agencies , government , the private sector and the public . that's not just the distant hope of opensource fans , it's the vision of james stavridis , the supreme commander of nato , who shares vivid moments from recent military history to explain why security of the future should be built with bridges rather than walls .	想像一下 , 全球安全是由組織、政府、私營部門和大眾所驅動的 , 這不僅僅是開放原始碼粉絲的遙遠希望 , 也是納粹的願景 , 納粹指揮官的最高階指揮官 , 他們在近期的軍事歷史中分享vid時刻 , 來解釋未來的安全性 , 而不是牆壁 。
collaboration , global issues , opensource , peace , politics , social media , violence , war	合作、全球議題、開放資源、和平政治、社交媒體、暴力、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭 。
james stavridis: how nato's supreme commander thinks about global security	詹姆斯•史塔里斯:納多的最高指揮官認為全球安全性如何 ?
i'm gonna talk a little bit about opensource security , because we've got to get better at security in this 21st century .	我要談一些開放原始碼安全的議題 , 因為在21世紀 , 我們必須在安全上做得更好 。
let me start by saying , let's look back to the 20th century , and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us .	首先讓我說 , 讓我們回顧二十世紀 , 看看安全的風格是如何影響我們 。
this is verdun , a battlefield in france just north of the nato headquarters in belgium .	這是verdun , 一個法國的戰場 , 位在比利時北部的奈米總部 。
at verdun , in 1916 , over a 300day period , 700 , 000 people were killed , so about 2 , 000 a day .	1916年的verdun , 在1916年 , 超過300天 , 70萬人被殺害 , 一天大約有2 , 000人 。
if you roll it forward 20thcentury security into the second world war , you see the battle of stalingrad , 300 days , 2 million people killed .	如果你將它推向二十世紀的安全轉為第二次世界大戰 , 你會看到史達丁格的戰役 , 300天 , 兩百萬人死亡 。
we go into the cold war , and we continue to try and build walls .	我們進入冷戰 , 我們持續嘗試建造牆壁 。
we go from the trench warfare of the first world war to the maginot line of the second world war , and then we go into the cold war , the iron curtain , the berlin wall .	我們從第一次世界大戰的陷阱 , 到第二次世界大戰的黑暗線 , 接著我們進入冷戰、鐵幕、柏林牆 。
my thesis for us today is , instead of building walls to create security , we need to build bridges .	我今天的論點是 , 與其建立安全牆 , 我們不需要建造橋樑 。
this is a famous bridge in europe .	這是歐洲有名的橋樑 。
it's the bridge over the drina river , the subject of a novel by ivo andrić , and it talks about how , in that very troubled part of europe and the balkans , over time there's been enormous building of walls .	這座橋在大西洋的河邊 , 由ivoandric所組成的小說主題 , 它談到 , 在歐洲和巴爾幹的那一塊非常困擾的部分 , 隨著時間 , 已經有很大的牆壁 。
more recently , in the last decade , we begin to see these communities start , hesitatingly , to come together .	更近期 , 在過去十年 , 我們開始看到這些社區開始猶豫地團結在一起 。
i would argue , again , opensource security is about connecting the international , the interagency , the privatepublic , and lashing it together with strategic communication , largely in social networks .	我認為 , 同樣地 , 開放原始碼安全的重點在於將國際、國際間、私人公共事務 , 將它與戰略通訊結合 , 大多是在社交網路上 。
so let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that , because our global commons is under attack in a variety of ways , and none of the sources of threat to the global commons will be solved by building walls .	讓我稍微談一下為何我們需要這麼做 , 因為我們的全球公有物以各種方式來攻擊 , 沒有任何威脅到全球公有物的來源 , 都會被建立牆壁來解決 。
now , i'm a sailor , obviously .	顯然 , 我是個水手 。
this is a ship , a liner , clipping through the indian ocean .	這是一艘船 , 一艘船 , 穿過印度洋 。
what's wrong with this picture ?	這張照片有什麼問題 ?
it's got concertina wire along the sides of it .	它沿著它的側邊有凝固電線 。
that's to prevent pirates from attacking it .	那就是防止海盜攻擊它 。
piracy is a very active threat today around the world . this is in the indian ocean .	陰謀是現今全世界非常活躍的威脅 。 這是在印度洋 。
piracy is also very active in the strait of malacca .	海盜也在馬拉卡的地鐵上非常活躍 。
it's active in the gulf of guinea .	它在幾內亞灣活躍 。
we see it in the caribbean .	我們在加勒比海看到 。
it's a $10billionayear discontinuity in the global transport system .	它是全球交通系統的十億年的不穩定性 。
last year , at this time , there were 20 vessels , 500 mariners held hostage .	去年 , 去年 , 有20艘船 , 500艘馬丁持有敵人 。
this is an attack on the global commons .	這是針對全球公有物的攻擊 。
we need to think about how to address it .	我們需要思考如何處理它 。
let's shift to a different kind of sea , the cyber sea .	讓我們轉移到另一種海洋 , 網路海 。
here are photographs of two young men .	這裡有兩個年輕男生的照片 。
at the moment , they're incarcerated .	目前 , 他們被監禁了 。
they conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars .	他們做了一個信用卡詐欺 , 將他們淨入超過一百億美金 。
this is part of cybercrime which is a $2trillionayear discontinuity in the global economy .	這是網路犯罪的一部分 , 它是全球經濟中2兆美元的連續性 。
two trillion a year .	一年有兩兆 。
that's just under the gdp of great britain .	這只是英國的國內生產總值 。
so this cyber sea , which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness , is very much under threat as well .	所以 , 這個網路海 , 我們無止盡地知道是徹底開放的基本一部分 , 都受到威脅 。
another thing i worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking , by the movement of narcotics , opium , here coming out of afghanistan through europe over to the united states .	在全球公有物中 , 我擔心的另一件事是人口販賣所造成的威脅 , 由毒品、鴉片、從阿富汗來到美國 。
we worry about cocaine coming from the andean ridge north .	我們擔心可卡因從安地斯坦河流來 。
we worry about the movement of illegal weapons and trafficking . above all , perhaps , we worry about human trafficking , and the awful cost of it .	我們擔心非法武器和販運的動作 , 也許最重要的是 , 我們擔心人口販賣 , 以及它的成本 。
trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons .	人口販賣通常在海上移動 , 但在全球公有物的其他部分 。
this is a photograph , and i wish i could tell you that this is a very hightech piece of us navy gear that we're using to stop the trafficking .	這是一張照片 , 我希望我能告訴你們 , 這是我們用來阻止人口販運的高科技裝置 。
the bad news is , this is a semisubmersible run by drug cartels .	壞消息是 , 這是一個半導體可以用毒品軟骨來運作 。
it was built in the jungles of south america .	它是在南美叢林裡建造的 。
we caught it with that lowtech raft — — and it was carrying six tons of cocaine .	我們用那個低科技的強暴抓住它 , 它帶著六噸的可卡因 。
crew of four . sophisticated communications sweep .	四個 , 複雜的溝通 。
this kind of trafficking , in narcotics , in humans , in weapons , god forbid , in weapons of mass destruction , is part of the threat to the global commons .	這種運輸 , 在人體、武器、神禁止、大規模毀滅的武器 , 是全球公有物威脅的一部分 。
and let's pull it together in afghanistan today .	讓我們一起在阿富汗 。
this is a field of poppies in afghanistan .	這是阿富汗的小狗 。
eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppy , opium and heroin , comes out of afghanistan .	世界上百分之八十到九十的流浪、鴉片和海洛因 , 來自阿富汗 。
we also see there , of course , terrorism .	當然 , 我們也看到恐怖主義 。
this is where al qaeda is staged from .	這就是蓋達組織的所在 。
we also see a very strong insurgency embedded there .	我們也看到一個非常強烈的保險制度 。
so this terrorism concern is also part of the global commons , and what we must address .	所以 , 恐怖主義也是全球公有物的一部分 , 我們必須處理的事 。
so here we are , 21st century .	這裡是21世紀 。
we know our 20thcentury tools are not going to work .	我們知道20世紀的工具不會成功 。
what should we do ?	我們該怎麼做 ?
i would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我會說 , 我們不會只靠槍支來遞送安全 。
we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我們不會直接從槍的桶子上遞送安全 。
we will need the application of military force .	我們需要軍事力量的應用 。
when we do it , we must do it well , and competently .	當我們這麼做時 , 我們必須做得很好 , 並且能做到 。
but my thesis is , opensource security is about international , interagency , privatepublic connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the internet .	但我的論點是 , 開放原始碼安全是關於國際、國際間、私人的連結 , 透過網路上策略溝通的概念 。
let me give you a couple of examples of how this works in a positive way .	讓我舉幾個例子來說明這如何用正面的方式運作 。
this is afghanistan . these are afghan soldiers .	這是阿富汗 。 這些是阿富汗士兵 。
they are all holding books .	他們都拿著書 。
you should say , " that's odd . i thought i read that this demographic , young men and women in their 20s and 30s , is largely illiterate in afghanistan . "	你應該說: 「 那是很奇怪的 。 我想我讀到 , 在二十、三十歲時 , 年輕的男性和女性 , 主要是在阿富汗 。 」
you would be correct .	你會是正確的 。
eightyfive percent cannot read when they enter the security forces of afghanistan .	當他們進入阿富汗的安全力量時 , 85%就無法閱讀 。
why ? because the taliban withheld education during the period of time in which these men and women would have learned to read .	為什麼呢 ? 因為塔利班在時間的期間 , 這些男人和女人會學會閱讀 。
so the question is , so , why are they all standing there holding books ?	所以問題是 , 為什麼他們都站在那裡拿著書 ?
the answer is , we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by nato in partnership with private sector entities , in partnership with development agencies .	答案是 , 我們教導他們讀識字課程 , 由納多和私人機構合作 , 與發展機構合作 。
we've taught well over 200 , 000 afghan security forces to read and write at a basic level .	我們已經教導了超過二十萬個阿富汗安全部隊以基本的角度閱讀和寫字 。
when you can read and write in afghanistan , you will typically put a pen in your pocket .	當你讀和寫在阿富汗 , 你通常會把一支筆放在口袋裡 。
at the ceremonies , when these young men and women graduate , they take that pen with great pride , and put it in their pocket .	在典禮上 , 當這些年輕男女畢業時 , 他們用大驕傲的鉛筆 , 把它放在口袋裡 。
this is bringing together international — there are 50 nations involved in this mission — interagency — these development agencies — and privatepublic , to take on this kind of security .	這將帶來國際性的50個國家與這個任務有關的國際發展機構和私人公共事業 , 採取這種安全 。
now , we are also teaching them combat skills , of course , but i would argue , opensource security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect .	當然 , 我們也在教他們戰鬥技能 , 但我認為 , 開放原始碼安全意味著以更長久的安全效應的方式連結 。
this is a us navy warship .	這是一個美國海軍戰艦 。
it's called the comfort .	它叫做舒適 。
there's a sister ship called the mercy .	有一艘叫mercy的姐妹船 。
they are hospital ships .	他們是醫院船隻 。
this one , the comfort , operates throughout the caribbean and the coast of south america conducting patient treatments .	這個是舒適的 , 在加勒比海和南美洲的海岸進行病人治療 。
on a typical cruise , they'll do 400 , 000 patient treatments .	在典型的情況下 , 他們會做四十萬個病人治療 。
it is crewed not strictly by military but by a combination of humanitarian organizations: operation hope , project smile .	它不是嚴格地被軍隊組合 , 而是由人道主義組織組合: 「 行動希望 」 , 計畫微笑 。
other organizations send volunteers .	其他組織發送志願者 。
interagency physicians come out .	內科醫師出來了 。
they're all part of this .	這些都是其中的一部分 。
to give you one example of the impact this can have , this little boy , eight years old , walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the comfort .	舉個例子 , 這個小男孩 , 八歲 , 帶著他媽兩天走進舒適圈的診所 。
when he was fitted , over his extremely myopic eyes , he suddenly looked up and said , " mama , veo el mundo . "	當他被配合時 , 在他的極端靈光眼中 , 他突然抬頭說: 「 媽媽 , veoelmundo 。 」
" mom , i see the world . "	「 媽 , 我看見世界 。 」
multiply this by 400 , 000 patient treatments , this privatepublic collaboration with security forces , and you begin to see the power of creating security in a very different way .	把這個乘以四十萬個病人治療 , 這種私人合作和安全部隊合作 , 你開始用非常不同的方法來創造安全的力量 。
here you see baseball players .	這裡你可以看到棒球選手 。
can you pick out the two us army soldiers in this photograph ?	你能在照片中挑出兩位美國軍人軍人嗎 ?
they are the two young men on either side of these young boys . this is part of a series of baseball clinics , where we have explored collaboration between major league baseball , the department of state , who sets up the diplomatic piece of this , military baseball players , who are real soldiers with real skills but participate in this mission , and they put on clinics throughout latin america and the caribbean , in honduras , in nicaragua , in all of the central american and caribbean nations where baseball is so popular , and it creates security .	他們是兩位年輕男孩兩方的年輕男孩 。 這是一系列棒球診所的一部分 , 在那裡 , 我們已經探索了主要聯盟棒球、國家部門 , 他們設立了外交棒球員 , 他們是真正的軍事棒球員 , 他們是真正有技能的士兵 , 但參與這個任務 , 他們在拉丁美洲和加勒比亞、加勒比亞、加勒比亞、加勒比亞、加勒比亞、和加勒比 , 在那裡 , 在那裡創造出全美式球 。
it shows role models to young men and women about fitness and about life that i would argue help create security for us .	它展現年輕男女的榜樣 , 關於健身和生活的典範 , 我主張幫助為我們創造安全 。
another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief .	這種合作關係的另一面是災難的解救 。
this is a us air force helicopter participating after the tsunami in 2004 which killed 250 , 000 people .	這是美國空軍直升機在2004年抵達海嘯之後 , 殺了25萬人 。
in each of these major disasters — the tsunami in 2004 , 250 , 000 dead , the kashmiri earthquake in pakistan , 2005 , 85 , 000 dead , the haitian earthquake , about 300 , 000 dead , more recently the awful earthquaketsunami combination which struck japan and its nuclear industry — in all of these instances , we see partnerships between international actors , interagency , privatepublic working with security forces to respond to this kind of natural disaster .	在每一個重大災難中 , 2004年的海嘯 , 250 , 000人死於巴基斯坦的喀什米里地震 , 2005年 , 8萬5千人死亡 , 海地地地震 , 近期有30萬人死亡 , 日本和其核能產業結合 , 在所有這些情況下 , 我們看到國際演員之間的合作關係 , 國際演員 , 國際關係 , 私人和安全部門合作 , 和安全部隊合作 。
so these are examples of this idea of opensource security .	這些是開放原始碼安全的例子 。
we tie it together , increasingly , by doing things like this .	透過這樣做 , 我們將它結合在一起 。
now , you're looking at this thinking , " ah , admiral , these must be sea lanes of communication , or these might be fiber optic cables . "	現在 , 你看到的這個想法是: 「 啊 , 不公正 , 這些必定是通訊的海平線 , 或這些可能是光纖電纜 。 」
no . this is a graphic of the world according to twitter .	不 , 這是twitter世界的圖像 。
purple are tweets . green are geolocation .	紫色是推特 。 綠色是地理分配 。
white is the synthesis .	白色是合成的 。
it's a perfect evocation of that great population survey , the six largest nations in the world in descending order: china , india , facebook , the united states , twitter and indonesia .	這是個完美的進展 , 關於人口調查 , 世界上六個最大的國家 , 下降順序:中國、印度、臉書、美國、推特和印尼 。
why do we want to get in these nets ?	為什麼我們要拿到這些蚊帳 ?
why do we want to be involved ?	為什麼我們要參與其中 ?
we talked earlier about the arab spring , and the power of all this .	我們先前談到阿拉伯之春 , 以及所有這些力量 。
i'll give you another example , and it's how you move this message .	我再舉另一個例子 , 就是你如何傳遞這個訊息 。
i gave a talk like this in london a while back about this point . i said , as i say to all of you , i'm on facebook . friend me .	我在倫敦演講了一陣子 。 我跟你們說 , 我在臉書上 。 朋友我 。
got a little laugh from the audience .	聽眾有點笑 。
there was an article which was run by ap , on the wire .	有一篇文章是ap , 在電線上運行 。
got picked up in two places in the world: finland and indonesia .	被帶到世界上兩個地方:芬蘭和印尼 。
the headline was: nato admiral needs friends .	標題是:納粹需要朋友 。
and the story was a catalyst , and the next morning i had hundreds of facebook friend requests from indonesians and finns , mostly saying , " admiral , we heard you need a friend , and oh , by the way , what is nato ? "	故事是一個催化劑 , 隔天早上 , 我有數百名facebook朋友 , 來自印尼人和芬蘭 , 主要是說: 「 不論如何 , 我們都聽說你需要一個朋友 , 喔 , 順便一提 , 奈及利亞是什麼 ? 」
yeah , we laugh , but this is how we move the message , and moving that message is how we connect international , interagency , privatepublic , and these social nets to help create security .	沒錯 , 我們笑了 , 但這就是我們如何傳遞訊息 , 傳遞訊息就是我們如何連結國際、國際間、私人企業 , 以及這些社交網路 , 來協助創造安全 。
now , let me hit a somber note .	現在 , 讓我按下一聲點 。
this is a photograph of a brave british soldier .	這是英國士兵的照片 。
he's in the scots guards .	他在蘇格蘭守衛中 。
he's standing the watch in helmand , in southern afghanistan .	他站在阿富汗南部的頭盔上 ,
i put him here to remind us , i would not want anyone to leave the room thinking that we do not need capable , competent militaries who can create real military effect .	我把他放在這裡提醒我們 , 我不會希望任何人離開房間 , 認為我們不需要有能力 , 能創造真正的軍隊效應 。
that is the core of who we are and what we do , and we do it to protect freedom , freedom of speech , all the things we treasure in our societies .	這就是我們所做的事的核心以及我們所做的事 , 來保護自由、言論自由、所有我們在社會中珍惜的東西 。
but , you know , life is not an onandoff switch .	但 , 你知道的 , 人生不是一個開關 。
you don't have to have a military that is either in hard combat or is in the barracks .	你不需要有一支軍隊 , 要麼在戰鬥中 , 要麼是在戰鬥中 。
i would argue life is a rheostat .	我主張生命是一場風暴 。
you have to dial it in , and as i think about how we create security in this 21st century , there will be times when we will apply hard power in true war and crisis , but there will be many instances , as we've talked about today , where our militaries can be part of creating 21stcentury security , international , interagency , privatepublic , connected with competent communication .	你必須在這個21世紀做安全 , 會有時候 , 我們會在真正的戰爭和危機上施加強大的力量 , 但有很多的例子 , 如今 , 我們的軍隊可以是創造21世紀安全、國際安全、跨領域、私人通訊的一部分 。
i would close by saying that we heard earlier today about wikipedia . i use wikipedia all the time to look up facts , and as all of you appreciate , wikipedia is not created by 12 brilliant people locked in a room writing articles .	最後我會說 , 今天我們聽到維基百科 , 我常常用維基百科檢查事實 , 你們都很欣賞 , 維基百科並不是由12名聰明的人在房間寫文章中所創造出來的 。
wikipedia , every day , is tens of thousands of people inputting information , and every day millions of people withdrawing that information .	維基百科 , 每天都有成千上萬的人輸入資訊 , 每天有數百萬人會放棄這些資訊 。
it's a perfect image for the fundamental point that no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	這是個完美的圖像 , 沒有人像我們所有人一樣聰明 。
no one person , no one alliance , no one nation , no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	沒有一個人 , 沒有一個聯盟 , 沒有一個國家 , 我們沒有一個人像我們所有人一樣聰明 。
the vision statement of wikipedia is very simple: a world in which every human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge .	維基百科的願景很簡單:在這個世界中 , 每個人都可以自由分享在所有知識的總和中 。
my thesis for you is that by combining international , interagency , privatepublic , strategic communication , together , in this 21st century , we can create the sum of all security .	我的論點是 , 透過結合國際、國際間、私人、戰略溝通 , 在21世紀 , 我們能創造出所有安全的總和 。
thank you very much . thank you . thank you .	非常謝謝 。 謝謝 。 謝謝 。
