BLEU = 14.34 45.2/21.9/11.2/6.0 (BP = 0.895 ratio = 0.900 hyp_len = 100123 ref_len = 111282)
when you say she's a programmer , she did do some , but the real thing is to have said the future is going to be much , much more than this .	當你說她是程式設計師 , 她確實做了一些事情 , 但真正的事情是 , 未來會變得越來越多 。
now , a hundred years later , this guy comes along , alan turing , and in 1936 , and invents the computer all over again .	幾百年後 , 這個人在1936年 , 發明了電腦 。
now , of course , babbage's machine was entirely mechanical .	當然 , 貝爾的機器完全機械 。
turing's machine was entirely theoretical .	turs機器完全是理論 。
both of these guys were coming from a mathematical perspective , but turing told us something very important .	這些人都是從數學角度來看的 , 但我們非常重要的 。
he laid down the mathematical foundations for computer science , and said , " it doesn't matter how you make a computer . "	他把數學基金給電腦學基金 , 說: 「 不論你如何製造電腦 。 」
it doesn't matter if your computer's mechanical , like babbage's was , or electronic , like computers are today , or perhaps in the future , cells , or , again , mechanical again , once we get into nanotechnology .	不管你是電腦的機械技術 , 像是bage的電腦機械 , 或電子 , 像是bage的機械 , 或電子 , 只要我們進入奈米科技 。
we could go back to babbage's machine and just make it tiny . all those things are computers .	我們可以回到巴比的機器 , 讓它微小 , 所有東西都是電腦 。
there is in a sense a computing essence .	有一種計算機率 。
this is called the church–turing thesis .	這叫做教堂 。
and so suddenly , you get this link where you say this thing babbage had built really was a computer .	突然間 , 你得到這個連結 , 說這東西是電腦 。
in fact , it was capable of doing everything we do today with computers , only really slowly .	事實上 , 只要慢慢地使用電腦 , 只是真的很慢 。
to give you an idea of how slowly , it had about 1k of memory .	給你一個想法慢慢地 , 它有1k記憶 。
it used punch cards , which were being fed in , and it ran about 10 , 000 times slower the first zx81 .	它使用punch卡片 , 它會用punch卡片 , 它會用punch卡片 , 它會用punch卡片 , 大約10000倍 。
it did have a ram pack .	它有一支支援機 。
you could add on a lot of extra memory if you wanted to .	你可以增加很多額外的記憶 。
so , where does that bring us today ?	所以 , 今天我們來到哪裡呢 ?
so there are plans .	所以 , 有計畫 。
over in swindon , the science museum archives , there are hundreds of plans and thousands of pages of notes written by charles babbage about this analytical engine .	在瑞典博物館 , 科學博物館有數以千計的數以千計的數以千計的數以千計的數以千計 。
one of those is a set of plans that we call plan 28 , and that is also the name of a charity that i started with doron swade , who was the curator of computing at the science museum , and also the person who drove the project to build a difference engine , and our plan is to build it .	其中之一是2008年 , 也是我在科學博物館的名字 , 這也是我們所謂的 「 慈善計畫 」 的計畫 。
here in south kensington , we will build the analytical engine .	在南韓 , 我們會建造一個分析引擎 。
the project has a number of parts to it .	這個計畫有數量的部分 。
one was the scanning of babbage's archive .	一個是babbage的掃描 。
that's been done . the second is now the study of all of those plans to determine what to build .	這已經完成了 。 第二個研究是所有這些計畫的研究 , 來決定該怎麼做 。
the third part is a computer simulation of that machine , and the last part is to physically build it at the science museum .	第三件是電腦模擬 , 最後一部分是電腦模擬 , 最後一部分是電腦模擬 , 最後一部分是電腦模擬 , 最後一部分是電腦模擬 。
when it's built , you'll finally be able to understand how a computer works , because rather than having a tiny chip in front of you , you've got to look at this humongous thing and say , " ah , i see the memory operating , i see the cpu operating , i hear it operating . i probably smell it operating . "	當它運作時 , 你就可以了解電腦運作的運作方式 , 因為在你面前 , 你可能聞到它的運作 , 我聽到它運作 , 我會聽到它運作 , 我會聽到它運作 , 我聽到它運作 , 我會聽到它運作 。
but in between that we're going to do a simulation .	但在我們要做模擬時 ,
babbage himself wrote , he said , as soon as the analytical engine exists , it will surely guide the future course of science .	貝爾夫寫了 , 他說: 「 科技科學 」 , 它會確保未來的未來科學 。
of course , he never built it , because he was always fiddling with new plans , but when it did get built , of course , in the 1940s , everything changed .	當然 , 他從來沒有建構 , 因為他一直在1940年代 , 一切都改變了 。
now , i'll just give you a little taste of what it looks like in motion with a video which shows just one part of the cpu mechanism working .	現在 , 我會給你們看一個影片 , 讓大家看看它的樣子 , 像是在動機的一部分 。
so this is just three sets of cogs , and it's going to add . this is the adding mechanism in action , so you imagine this gigantic machine .	這只是三個組合的機制 , 所以你想像這個巨大的機械 。
so , give me five years .	給我五年 。
before the 2030s happen , we'll have it .	在2030年代 , 我們會這樣做 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家
in this imagefilled talk , yann arthusbertrand displays his three most recent projects on humanity and our habitat stunning aerial photographs in his series " the earth from above , " personal interviews from around the globe featured in his web project " 6 billion others , " and his soontobereleased movie , " home , " which documents human impact on the environment through breathtaking video .	在這張圖片中 , 艾倫•哈斯伯特•哈斯伯特•哈斯伯特•哈斯伯特•哈斯伯特•哈斯伯特•哈斯伯特•哈斯伯特拍攝了這張照片 , 《六十億人》 , 以及他的 「 史蒂芬•哈斯伯特》 」 , 在這個影像中 , 「 人類 」 和我們的棲息地拍攝影像 , 在這個影像中 , 人類和我們的棲息地傳播 , 在這個影像中 , 人類和我們的棲息地傳播了 , 在這個影像中 , 人類和我們的棲息地傳播了 , 在這個影像中 , 人類和我們的棲息地傳播了六十億人 。
art , climate change , environment , film , future , humanity , media , photography	藝術、氣候變遷、環境、電影、未來、人類、環境、電影、未來、人類、環境、電影 。
yann arthusbertrand captures fragile earth in wideangle	yannhusbertarhusbertarhusbertrand捕捉了巨大的地球 。
i have a big impact on the planet to travel here by plane .	我對地球上有很大的影響 。
i emitted , in the atmosphere , nine tons of co2 ; that is the weight of two elephants .	我在大氣中 , 二氧化碳 , 大象是兩隻大象 。
i came here to speak about ecology , and i emitted as much co2 as a frenchman in one year .	我來到這裡的演講 , 我來到這裡 , 來講天生學 , 我在一年的二氧化碳中 。
so what do i have to do ?	我該怎麼做 ?
i have to kill a frenchman when i come back at home ?	當我回到家時 , 我必須殺手法國人嗎 ?
i have to do my carbon offset in another way , like i do every time .	我必須做我的碳排放 , 像我一樣 。
in fact my work is to show our impact on our planet .	事實上 , 我的作品是展示我們的地球上的影響 。
i'm going to show you some examples of the last pictures i've done in the last year .	接下來我要展示一些例子 , 去年來展示一些例子 。
alberta sand oil , a lot of pollution .	亞伯塔沙石油 , 許多污染 。
you know the problem ; we don't want to believe what we know .	你知道 , 我們不想相信我們知道什麼 。
in alberta people work nonstop , 24 hours by seven to extract as much oil as they can .	在亞伯塔人工作 , 24小時 , 超過七分之二的石油 。
we know about the end of oil .	我們知道石油的石油 。
oil sand is not a longterm solution .	油砂不是長期的解決方案 。
but we use three times more oil than we find every year .	但我們每年使用三倍的石油 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們知道的 。
coral reef in new caledonia .	珊瑚礁的珊瑚礁 。
100 percent of the coral may be wiped out before 2050 because of global warming .	在2050年 , 全球暖化 , 全球暖化 。
and you know how coral are very sensitive to temperature , and are very important for the biodiversity of the sea .	你知道珊瑚是非常敏感的 , 對生物多樣性非常敏感 。
north pole . i've done this picture last summer .	北極 , 我拍攝了這張照片 。
it was impossible to do this picture 15 years ago .	這張照片15年前是不可能的 。
now there is a new way open between atlantic and pacific .	現在 , 公開大西洋和太平洋 。
the thickness of the arctic decreased more than 40 percent since 1960 .	從1960年開始 , 北極減少了超過40% 。
there is a new face of kilimanjaro without ice .	這裡有一個新的臉孔 , 沒有冰 。
it lost 80 percent of its ice .	它失去了80%的冰 。
according to scientists , in 100 years all the mountain glacier will be gone .	根據科學家 , 在100年 , 山冰山冰河的山脈冰河會消失 。
glaciers are very important for the life on earth .	冰河是地球上生命的重要
like al gore told you , two billion people live on the water from the glacier of himalaya .	例如阿拉雅的水 , 兩十億人住在海馬拉雅山 。
return of fish men .	漁民們 。
one fifth of human kind depend on fish to live .	人類的五分之一是魚類生活
today now 70 percent of the fish stock are overexploited .	現今有70%的魚股股票被剝削 。
according to fao , if we don't change our system of fishing the main sea resources will be gone in 2050 .	根據 , 如果我們不改變我們的系統 , 如果我們不改變我們的系統 , 只要我們不改變我們的系統 , 就能在2050年 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們知道的 。
the beautiful picture , by [unclear] in africa .	美麗的照片 , 在非洲 。
one human of six have not enough to eat in the world .	世界上有6個沒有足夠的食物 。
one billion people have not enough to eat .	十億人沒有足夠的食物
in africa , corn is one of the main foods in many places .	在非洲 , 玉米是主要食物的主要食物 。
here in america , 90 percent of the corn cultivated is used to feed animals or to do oil .	在美國 , 90%的珊瑚都被用來餵食動物或做油 。
palm tree plantation in borneo .	棕櫚樹木計畫在生長 。
every year we lose 50 thousand square miles in deforestation .	每年我們損失5000平方英里 。
refugee camp in darfur .	難民營 。
today we have 20 million refugees in the world .	現今我們有20萬難民 。
according to the u . n . , we speak about 250 million refugees in 2050 .	根據美國聯盟 , 我們在2050萬難民當中有250萬難民 。
i always show my pictures in the street .	我總是在街上看到我的照片 。
we have done already 100 exhibitions in the cities .	我們在城市中已經有超過100個展覽 。
but how to understand the world without the voice of people ?	但 , 如何了解世界沒有人的聲音 ?
landscape was not enough .	地景還不夠 。
it was obvious to me to do another work .	對我來說 , 很明顯 , 要做另一個工作 。
i launched a project named six billion others .	我發出了一個計畫叫做六十億人 。
i sent around the world six cameramen asking the same question , the same crucial question , about life .	我在世界六個攝影機上看到同樣的問題 , 同樣的問題 , 同樣的問題 。
we have done five thousand interviews .	我們已經做了五千次訪談 。
i'm going to show you this .	我要給你們看 。
man: the most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life ?	男人:我人生中最美妙的事情嗎 ?
it's when my dad told me , " here , i give you this girl as your fiance . "	當我爸爸告訴我: 「 這裡 , 我給你一個女孩 。 」
woman: love ? love is nice if you can have it .	女士:愛嗎 ? 愛 ? 愛:愛 ? 愛:愛 , 愛 !
second man: romeo and juliet , sassi and panno , dodi and diana , heer and ranjha , this is love ! third man: my greatest fear is . . .	第二個男人:romeo和jhasassassassassassassassassassassassassassassassassassassassasssassassassassasssassassassasssassass
woman: you're asking me a hard question .	女人:你問我一個困難的問題 。
fourth man: i live happily because what else should i do ?	第四個男人:我很幸運 , 因為其他我應該要做嗎 ?
fifth man: the first thing i remember . . .	第五個男人:我記得......
fifth man: . . . from my childhood , fifth man: we were having fun , biking .	第五個男人:我童年 , 第五個男人:我們很有趣 。
seventh man: we invented stories , we flew around the world , while remaining in our attic .	七個男人:我們發明了故事 , 我們發明了故事 , 我們發明了故事 , 我們發明了故事 。
eighth man: i had a big laugh today .	八個男人:我今天很大笑 。
ninth man: you see , family is . . . it's awful .	ninthman:你看 , 家庭是很糟糕的 。
10th man: in the word life , you have the life .	十個男人: 「 人生中 , 你有生命 。 」
11th man: who am i ? isn't that the biggest question ?	11個男人:我是誰 ? 我不是最大問題嗎 ?
12th man: if i was to go back to iraq and speak to the people , i'd have to bow down and kiss their feet .	12個男人:如果我要回到伊拉克和公民說話 , 我就要回到伊拉克和公民 。
just as that woman tried to kiss my feet when we were taking her sons .	只是當我們把她的兒子拿起來時 , 我腳踏上腳步 。
and i feel humbled by their strength .	我感受到牠們的力量 。
and i will forever feel a need to make reparations to iraq .	我也一定會覺得需要重視伊拉克 。
second woman: dad , mom , i grew up .	第二個女人:爸媽 , 我長大 。
you shouldn't worry about me . dad doesn't need to go to work .	你不應該擔心我 , 爸爸不需要去工作 。
my family . . . what can i say ?	我的家人 , 我可以說什麼 ?
at the moment , my family is very poor , my life here in shenzhen is just about showing myself that i can earn more and to let my parents stay and have something to live on .	在這一刻 , 我家人很窮 , 我家人是很窮的 , 我家人很窮 , 我家人很窮 , 我家人很窮 , 我家人很窮 , 我家人很貧困 , 我家人很貧困 , 我家人很窮 。
i don't want them to spend their whole lives in poverty .	我不希望他們花在貧窮的人生中 。
if someday i can achieve something , i would like to say thank you daddy and mommy .	如果有一天我可以達成 , 我會說感謝你爸爸和媽媽 。
thank you for having fed me and raised me , and for making my life of today . thank you .	謝謝大家 。 感謝你 。 謝謝 。
13th man: after seven years now of being in a wheelchair , i've done more in life being in a chair than out of a chair .	13個男人:七年後 , 我在輪椅上做更多 , 我在輪椅上做更多的事 。
i still surf . i sail the world . i freedive .	我仍然會傷害 , 我很自由 。
after many people said i couldn't do that .	許多人說我無法這麼做 。
and i think that comes from connecting with nature , connecting with the energy of life , because we're all disabled in some way on the planet spiritually , mentally or physically .	我認為 , 與生命的連結 , 因為我們都在地球上 , 與自然連結在一起 , 因為我們都在某種程度上 , 和自然連結在一起 , 因為我們都在地球上 , 和自然連結在一起 。
i got the easy part .	我得到了簡單的部分
14th man: let's say that you and me like each other .	14個男人:我們會說你和我一樣 。
you come from elsewhere .	你來自其他地方 。
you don't know me . i don't know you .	你不知道我 。 我不知道你 。
we talk without lying .	我們說話沒有 。
if i do like you , i give you one cow and many other things and we become friends .	如果我喜歡你 , 我給你一個牛和許多其他東西 , 我們就會變成朋友 。
how can we make it all by ourselves ?	我們要如何讓它變成自己 ?
yab: you can also go to the website , answer respond to the questions also .	yab:你也可以去網站 , 回答回應這個問題 。
now i am going to speak to you about my movie .	現在我要跟你們談談我的電影 。
for the last three years , i was shooting the earth for the movie .	過去三年來 , 我拍攝了地球的電影 。
the name of the movie is " home " " maison . "	電影的名字是 「 家 」 。
it is about the state of the planet .	它是地球的狀態 。
it's a fantastic story of life on the earth .	地球上是個奇妙的故事 。
i'm very proud to show you the teaser .	我非常驕傲 , 讓你們看看 。
video: this earth is four and a half billion years old .	影片:這地球是450億年 。
these plants , several hundred million years old .	這些植物 , 數億年 。
and we humans have been walking upright for only 200 thousand years .	我們人類已經走路了近2000年 。
we've managed to adapt , and have conquered the whole planet .	我們已經控制了整個星球 。
for generations , we've been raising our children , not unlike millions of other species living beside us .	數以千計的孩子 , 不像其他物種生活在我們身上 。
for the past 30 years i've been closely watching the earth and its dwellers from high up in the sky .	在過去30年間 , 我深深地觀察地球和天空的天空 。
our life is tied to the wellbeing of our planet .	我們的生命在地球上升起了我們的星球 。
we depend on water , forests , deserts , oceans .	我們依賴水、森林、沙漠、海洋 。
fishing , breeding , farming are still the world's foremost human occupations .	魚類、餵養、餵養、餵養 , 農業是人類的生產力 。
and what binds us together is far greater than what divides us .	結合在一起的比分裂更大 。
we all share the same need for the earth's gifts the same wish to rise above ourselves , and become better .	我們都與地球的需求相同 , 更好 , 更好 。
and yet we carry on raising walls to keep us apart .	然而 , 我們把牆壁帶給我們公寓 。
today our greatest battle is to protect the natural offerings of our planet .	今天我們最偉大的戰鬥就是保護我們地球的天然 。
in less than 50 years we've altered it more thoroughly than in the entire history of mankind .	不到50年 , 我們比在人類的歷史上更加深刻 。
half of the world's forests have vanished .	全世界的森林已經消失了 。
water resources are running low .	水資源資源很低 。
intensive farming is depleting soils .	積極化的土壤 。
our energy sources are not sustainable .	我們的能源源源並不永續 。
the climate is changing .	氣候正在改變 。
we are endangering ourselves .	我們終結了自己 。
we're only trying to improve our lives .	我們只是試著改善我們的生命 。
but the wealth gaps are growing wider .	但財富差異很大 。
we haven't yet understood that we're going at a much faster pace than the planet can sustain .	我們還沒有瞭解到 , 地球的速度比地球更快 。
we know that solutions are available today .	我們知道解決方案是可行的 。
we all have the power to change this trend for the better .	我們都有權力改變這個趨勢 。
so what are we waiting for ?	所以 , 我們等待什麼 ?
yab: luc besson is the producer of the movie .	yab:lucson是電影的生產者 。
but it is not a normal movie .	但這不是一般電影 。
the film is going to be distributed free .	這部電影會被分配的自由 。
this film has no copyright .	這部電影沒有版權 。
on the five of june , the environment day , everybody can download the movie on internet .	五年六月 , 每個人都可以在網路上傳播影片 。
the film is given for free to the distributor for tv and theater to show it the fifth of june .	這部電影是為了免費給予電視和劇院 , 給電視和劇院 , 展現出五分之六 。
there is no business on this movie .	這部電影沒有商業 。
it is also available for school , cities , ngos and you .	它也包括學校、城市、英國、城市 。
we have to believe what we know .	我們必須相信我們知道的 。
let me tell you something .	讓我告訴你們一些 。
it's too late to be pessimistic really too late .	太遲了 , 太遲了
we have all a part of the solutions .	我們有所有的解決方案 。
to finish , i would like to welcome the 4 , 700th baby born since the beginning of this talk .	最後 , 我希望歡迎這場演說的第四 , 700個寶寶 。
merci beaucoup . i love you .	愛你 。 我愛你 。
illustrious jugglers the raspyni brothers show off their uncanny balance , agility , coordination and willingness to sacrifice . now , if you'll just stand completely still . . .	奧斯汀•布魯斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布魯斯•布雷斯•布魯斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯•布雷斯:如果
collaboration , entertainment , humor , physics	合作 , 娛樂 , 娛樂 , 娛樂 , 娛樂 , 娛樂 。
the raspyni brothers juggle and jest	史蒂芬•布魯斯特和耶穌 。
dan holzman: please throw out the beanbag chairs . here we go .	丹•霍爾茲曼:請把頭髮放進去 。
barry friedman: there are all kinds of hightech chairs here today , but this is really , i think , when it reached its peak as far as ergonomics , comfort , design , flexibility . . .	布里德曼:現在有許多高科技的椅子 , 但這是真的 , 我認為 , 當它到達它時 , 感覺到它的高科技椅子 。
dh: now obviously , this is not something we do on our regular show ; it's something we just kind of learned for this , so we're going to try . but can we have some inspirational music for the beanbag chairs ?	dh:顯然 , 這不是我們在做的事 , 我們只是學到了什麼 , 但我們可以有一些靈感音樂 , 像是音樂 。
bf: nice show , daniel , nice show . you are the man !	布米爾:很好的展示 , 丹尼爾 , 丹尼爾 , 你是男人 !
nice show . man , that was good !	很好 !
bf: you know , sometimes when people do those , they go all the way down .	bf:你知道 , 有時候人們會這麼做 , 他們就會走下去 。
you actually just did that .	你其實只是這樣做 。
that's the kind of extra effort that's gotten us where we are today . . .	這就是我們現在所處的努力 。
dh: all right , let's show them something special .	嗯 , 讓我們來展示一些特別 。
bf: . . . without a macarthur grant .	bf: , 沒有macarthurg 。
yeah , look at this . you know , all kinds of different . . .	是的 , 看看這個 。 你知道 , 各類各樣不同 。
ted is about invention , let's be honest . right ? dh: yeah , it is .	ted是 , 是的 , 是的 。 是的 。 對嗎 ?
bf: last night , michael moschen showed some juggling props he has invented and working on .	bf:昨晚 , michaelmichaelmoschen展示了一些令人驚嘆的發明和工作 。
right now , dan's going to show something he actually invented .	現在 , 丹 , 他發明了 。
dh: a type of juggling i actually invented , right after i saw another juggler do it .	dh:在我看到另一隻跳傘的時候 , 我看到另一隻雞蛋 。
dh: and this is a small excerpt from a longer piece .	dh:這只是一小段時間 。
folks , this is shaker cup juggling . it's not a showstopper but it certainly slows it down .	大家 , 這不是一個表演者 , 而是很慢的 。
bf: oh yeah , it does .	bf:喔 , 是的 。
bf: oh , daniel .	噢 , 丹尼爾 。
bf: ok . dh: oh ! all right .	bf:喔 ! 噢 !
i'm now pushing my luck: i'm skipping right to six cups .	我現在正在推動我的幸運:我有六個杯子 。
in order to do six cups , i must have perfect control over three with my right hand .	為了要做六個杯子 , 我必須完美控制三次 。
bf: also three with his left .	布:還有三個左邊 。
and now , all six cups . should i do it on the first try or should i miss once on purpose ?	現在 , 每六個杯子 , 我應該要做一次 , 或應該要做它 ?
bf: first try ? once on purpose ?	bf:第一次試試試試嗎 ?
dh: how about if i try first and then decide ?	dh:如果我試試試試 , 然後決定呢 ?
bf: good idea . let's leave that . we'll leave that door open .	bf:好點子 , 我們會離開那個門 。
dh: he's looking at me .	dh:他看著我 。
bf: that's all right , he does that . all right .	沒錯 。 沒錯 。
dh: oh ! it's time for richard's help .	dh:喔 ! 噢 ! 這是時間理查的幫助 。
oh , good . all right .	喔 , 好 , 好 。
bf: you know , over the years , every year at the conference , it's kind of become a tradition for us to do something dangerous with richard . and we've always done something with the bullwhips in our act . it's funny , for years i did it with daniel holding balloons .	bf:你知道 , 在過去幾年裡 , 我們一直在做一些事情 , 很有趣的是 , 我們一直在做一些事情 , 我們一直在做一些事情 , 很有趣的 , 我們一直在做的事 , 和丹尼爾一起做的事 。
and then we thought , " how stupid . "	然後我們想: 「 愚蠢 。 」
dh: excuse me , could we work on the design of the microphone ?	dh:藉由麥克風的設計 , 我們能在麥克風中做些什麼 ?
bf: i think that's the next session .	bf:我認為這是下一個秘密 。
bf: yeah . and so we've actually found a way to incorporate richard in this .	bf:是的 。 我們其實找到了一種方法來處理 。
he actually assumes more of the danger in this .	他其實假設更多危險 。
dh: please stand up , richard .	安:請站起來 , 理查 。
dh: now richard , please . . .	dh:現在......
bf: ok , sorry .	好 , 抱歉 。
dh: jesus christ . richard , please stand in front of me .	安:耶穌基督 , 請站在我面前 。
richard wurman: can i say something ?	理查•沃爾曼:我能說些什麼 ?
rw: in all past years i've rehearsed with them , the things that have happened to me i have no idea what's going to happen and that's the truth .	rw:在過去幾年 , 我和他們分享 , 我沒有想法會發生什麼事 , 而是真相 。
dh: all right , please stand here in front . . .	噢 , 請站在這裡 。
god , i hate that . put your hands out like this , please .	上帝 , 我討厭這一點 , 請舉手 。
bf: no , come stay up with him .	bf:不 , 跟他一起 。
dan used to actually hold them but now he's got you for protection .	爸爸曾經接觸到他們 , 但現在他是保護的 。
it's kind of neat . ok .	它是很不錯的 。
dh: wow , you've been working out .	dh:哇 , 你已經工作了 。
bf: no , shut up !	不 , 不 !
having a little bit of richard time . that's nice , that's good .	沒錯 , 很好 。
ok , here we go .	好 , 我們來了 。
have him hold your wrist so i can . . .	他抱著你的手腕 , 我可以 。
dh: please hold my wrist , will you . bf: yeah , hold this a minute .	dh:請抱著我的手腕 , 請抱著我的手腕 。
ok , hold on .	好 , 繼續 。
bf: all those midyear phone calls are coming back to me now , richard .	布:所有這些我現在都來回來的電話 , 來到我 。
dh: so richard , what were we on the list ? like 1 , 020 ?	dh:理查 , 我們在單單上 , 020 ?
bf: i think we were just outside .	布:我想我們只是外面 。
dh: sorry . bf: having some bad flashbacks .	嗯:抱歉 , 沒錯 。
rw: do you want me to hold you or not ? dh: don't hold me that hard .	rw:你要我帶著你 , 不要抱著我 , 不管你嗎 ?
bf: here we go , i'm taking it .	bf:我們去了 , 我會這樣做 。
dh: one more , one more .	dh:更多 。
bf: we've got one more we're going to do .	bf:我們有了更多 。
rw: do i get to hold them ?	rw:我要抓住他們嗎 ?
bf: you don't want to hold these , trust me .	bf:你不想讓這些信任 。
dh: could you spread your legs a little bit ?	dh:你可以把你的腿稍稍稍微嗎 ?
bf: gloria , you want to do it ? it's very cool .	bf:gloria嗎 ? 很酷 。
one more try . man , i don't want to get too close .	一個人 , 我不想太接近 。
could you just push that ?	你只能推出這個嗎 ?
dh: wow ! boy !	哇 ! 男孩 !
bf: that's cool . i always wanted to try that .	bf:那很酷 。 我一直想要嘗試 。
dh: let's jump this way , though .	dh:讓我們跳起來 。
now , we risked richard's life , it's only fair we risk our own lives .	現在 , 我們冒險的生命 , 只是公平我們自己的生命 。
so to do that , i will juggle these three razorsharp sickles .	為了這樣做 , 我會把這三分之二的模糊塗鴉 。
and if that wasn't enough , and judging by your response , it's not . . .	如果那沒有夠多 , 就不夠了 。
dh: wow ! bf: hoping for a little more build .	dh:哇 ! bf:哇 ! bf:哇 ! bf:哇 ! bf:哇 !
dh: true . barry . . .	嗯:真的 。
bf: i'm going to run up behind him .	布:我會在他旁邊 。
dh: leap over my shoulder .	dh:在我的肩膀上 。
bf: up and over his shoulders .	布:在他的肩膀上 。
dh: grab the blades in midair , land right there in a pool of blood . . .	dh:抓住房間的血液 。
impossible , you say ?	不可能嗎 ?
bf: incredible , you say ?	布:不可思議吧 ?
dh: why bother , you say ?	dh:為什麼你會說 ?
bf: here we go .	bf:我們去了 。
dh: just do it juggler boys , you say ?	dh:你說 , 你說嗎 ?
bf: this guy , this guy invented air .	bf:這傢伙發明了空氣 。
dh: i think so , that's right .	dh:我認為這是正確的 。
bf: he invented the pencil .	bf:他發明了鉛筆 。
dh: all right , we'll do this trick , but please remember it took us over 10 years to perfect .	dh:好 , 我們會這麼做 , 但請記住我們花了十年的時間完成 。
bf: ten years to perfect , which you're about to see .	布:十年來 , 你要看到 。
dh: it's not that difficult , we just don't like to practice that much .	dh:這不是很困難 , 我們只是不喜歡練習 。
bf: no , it's a hassle . traveling too much .	bf:不 , 太多了 。
actually , we will take a second to prove this could be fake that the blades are indeed razorsharp .	事實上 , 我們要花一秒鐘來證明這可能是假裝的 , 不論是假裝的 。
dh: will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage ?	dh:會有人把一隻小農場放進去嗎 ?
or a virgin for a sacrifice ?	或維吉利斯犧牲嗎 ?
bf: no , she's got . . . farm animal .	bf:不 , 嗯 , 嗯 , 動物 。
dh: do you have a small farm animal ?	dh:你有小農場動物嗎 ?
just trying to play the odds . all right , here we go .	只要嘗試玩樂趣 , 我們就開始 。
bf: over the top , over the top .	bf:在頂端 。
dh: how you feeling , barry ? you feeling all right ?	dh:你感覺嗎 ? 你感覺到嗎 ?
bf: yeah , it's all right .	bf:是的 , 對 。
dh: do you feel everything's ok ? the atmosphere , the . . .	dh:你覺得一切都好嗎 ? 大氣層 。
bf: yeah , a little sketchy .	bf:是的 , 是的 。
dh: everything up here's ok ?	dh:一切都好了嗎 ?
dh: then here we go .	dh:我們去了 。
bf: this one's a little . . . who's doing the lights ? could you point that a little more directly into my eyeballs ? is that possible ? i can still see a little .	bf:這是個小小嗎 ? 我還是可以看到一個小小 。
dh: and turn up the intensity ; we're still pink in the middle .	dh:在中間 , 我們仍在中間 。
we went too far .	我們太過了 。
bf: yeah , it's too far . it's too much of a visual .	bf:是的 , 太遠了 , 太多了 。
the design of the body is a whole different thing .	身體的設計是完全不同的 。
dh: ready , barry ? bf: over the top .	dh:準備好了嗎 ? bf:準備好了 。
dh: may we have our jumping music please ?	dh:可能我們有我們的跳舞音樂嗎 ?
may we have it a bit louder ?	或許我們會有更大的聲響 ?
bf: they're a good crew ! whoa !	bf:他們是好的crew !
dh: whoa , sorry . all right .	噢 ! 沒錯 。
bf: we're going on .	bf:我們會這樣做 。
dh: all right , we'll try again .	沒錯 , 我們再試試一次 。
bf: all right ? oh my gosh . oh .	噢 ! 噢 ! 噢 !
dh: all right , here we go . sorry about that .	沒錯 , 我們很抱歉 。
bf: i thought i had the hard part . ok .	bf:我覺得我有困難的部分 。
dh: whenever you're ready .	dh:當你準備好了 。
bf: there we go !	bf:我們去了 !
all right , get up ! come on and dance ! dh: dance , come on . bf: come on and dance !	好吧 ! 跳舞 ! 跳舞 ! 跳舞 ! 跳舞 !
somebody dance ! come on !	有人跳舞 !
wow , wow , ok , stop .	哇 , 好 , 停下來 。
weird , no one dances . we're two guys doing this .	奇怪 , 我們不是一個舞蹈 , 我們是兩個人 。
i think that's uncomfortable for everyone .	我認為這對每個人都很不舒服 。
dh: the french judge . . .	dh:法官 。
bf: one more quick thing .	比:更快一點 。
dh: the french judge gives it a 5 . 2 .	法官:法官的法官是5.2 。
bf: well , you know . . .	嗯......
dh: there you go . . . bf: oh , yeah . another one coming in .	dh:噢 , 噢 , 再來 。
dh: tell them about our bio and stuff .	dh:告訴他們關於我們的生物和東西 。
bf: yeah . in our bio , some of you may have read that we've won two world juggling championships .	bf:是的 , 有些人可能已經讀過 , 我們有兩種世界冠軍 。
and believe it or not , you don't win juggling champions for doing things with bullwhips or shaker cups .	相信這不是 , 你不願意用牛仔褲和牛仔褲來做事 。
we're going to show you right now an excerpt from a routine that we used to wipe out the other juggling team competition .	現在我們要向大家展示 , 用於我們用野外的團隊競爭 。
dh: i know what you're thinking: other juggling teams must really suck .	dh:我知道你在想:其他的團隊必須真的很快 。
bf: juggling's got a bad rap .	bf:跳傘很糟 。
dh: but wait , barry , there's still one more club lying there by my foot .	dh:但等著 , 晚上 , 仍然有更多的lub 。
and look , it has a twin !	看 , 它有雙胞胎 !
dh: there's still one more by my foot .	dh:還有一個我腳的腳步 。
what do you want me to do with it ?	你希望我能做什麼 ?
bf: richard you tell him , it's your last year .	bf:理查你告訴他 , 這是你去年 。
dh: that's a pretty good setup , richard .	嗯:那是個很好的架構 , 理查 。
bf: yeah , it's a good setup . that's a big setup .	bf:是啊 , 這是個很好的建議 。 這是個很好的建議 。
dh: you can't get any better than that . all right . what i will do: i will use my pantherlike reflexes .	沒錯 , 我會用我的皮膚色反應 。
dh: i got that to reach down and grab that club in my grip of steel .	dh:我能抓住我的腳趾 。
dh: i touched it , barry . that should be enough .	dh:我碰到它 , 不夠 。
bf: it's progress , that's the thing .	bf:它是進步 , 就是這樣 。
dh: how about that ? i'll do it again .	dh:如何 ? 我會這樣做 。
oh wait , it's on your side , barry .	喔 , 等等 , 你在你的邊 。
and it's awfully windy over there .	它很有風力
bf: it is , it's weird . you wouldn't think it would affect half the stage , but it is . it's weird .	bf:它是很奇怪 。 你不會覺得它會影響半台 , 但它是很奇怪 。
watch this: what i'm going to do is slide the seventh one onto my foot .	看看這點:我要做的是把七分之七的第七次放在我的腳上 。
dh: wow ! what a great trick , barry !	dh:哇 ! 喔 ! 祝福 !
oh , look how it lies there .	哦 , 看看它是如何 。
oh , barry , is there nothing you can't do ?	噢 , 沒錯 , 你不能做嗎 ?
you are my hero . you're my jim shea , jr .	你是我的英雄 , 你是我的英雄 , 你是我的英雄 。
bf: from my foot , i'll attempt to kick the seventh club . here we go .	bf:從我的腳上 , 我會跳七個圈 , 來看看 。
dh: where , barry ? where ? tell us , barry .	dh:在哪裡 ? 哪裡 ? 來告訴我們 。
[unclear] eagerly awaits your next syllable . what will it be ?	可是你的下一個可憐的 , 會怎麼樣 ?
what gem of knowledge ?	知識的知識是什麼 ?
what pearl of wisdom ?	智慧的智慧呢 ?
do you want to buy a vowel , barry ?	你想買一片酒吧 ?
is that your final answer ?	你的最後答案是嗎 ?
bf: all right ! you have to turn off the tv from time to time .	沒錯 ! 你必須把電視從時間轉換出來 。
dh: i do , i do .	dh:我這麼做 。
bf: from my foot , the kick up in the seven .	bf:從我的腳踏上 , 踢出七個 。
dh: we will juggle seven .	dh:我們會跳七個 。
bf: from six to seven . dh: that's a world's record . bf: really ? dh: for us .	布:這是一個世界的紀錄片:那是 「 dh:我們 」 的 「 dh 」 。
dh: whenever you're ready there , big guy .	dh:當你準備好了 , 大人 。
put your tongue away , barry .	把你的舌頭放到舌頭上 。
bf: oh , oh , whoa .	噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 !
dh: please , please stay seated . stay seated . thank you .	拜託 , 請留住 , 請留住 。 謝謝 。
because now , to make this twice as difficult , we'll juggle the seven clubs back . . .	因為現在 , 我們要讓這兩次變得困難 , 我們會跳七個圈子 。
dh: . . . to back .	嗯 , 回到 。
bf: thank you , that's it .	bf:謝謝你 。
bf: thank you guys !	布:謝謝 !
dh: thank you very much !	非常感謝 !
in this accessible talk from tedxboston , richard resnick shows how cheap and fast genome sequencing is about to turn health care upside down .	在tedxboston的演講中 , 理查•安德斯頓 , 理查•安德森林士頓 , 理查•安德森林士頓 , 理查•安德森 , 理查•安德斯頓 , 理查•安德斯頓 , 理查•安德森林士頓
dna , biotech , health care , science , technology	dna、生物科技、科學、科技 。
richard resnick: welcome to the genomic revolution	理查德•雷斯尼克:歡迎到基因組革命 。
ladies and gentlemen , i present to you the human genome .	各位先生女士 , 我給各位看人類基因組 。
chromosome one , top left .	染色體是左邊
bottom right are the sex chromosomes .	底部是性染色體 。
women have two copies of that big x chromosome ; men have the x and , of course , that small copy of the y .	女性有兩個共同的x染色體x染色體x染色體x染色體x染色體x染色體x染色體x染色體
sorry boys , but it's just a tiny little thing that makes you different .	抱歉男孩 , 但它只是一個小小東西 , 讓你不一樣 。
so if you zoom in on this genome , then what you see , of course , is this double helix structure the code of life spelled out with these four biochemical letters , or we call them bases , right: a , c , g and t .	如果你放大這個基因組 , 你看到的 , 就是這個基因組 , 我們稱它們為基礎: 「 四個生物化學字母 」 , 或我們稱它們為 「 基礎 」 。
how many are there in the human genome ? three billion .	在人類基因組中有多少 ? 三十億 。
is that a big number ?	這是個巨大數字嗎 ?
well , everybody can throw around big numbers .	每個人都可以丟大數字 。
but in fact , if i were to place one base on each pixel of this 1280 by 800 resolution screen , we would need 3 , 000 screens to take a look at the genome .	但事實上 , 如果我要把一個基礎應用在20800個螢幕上 , 我們需要3 , 000個螢幕 , 我們需要3 , 000個螢幕 , 看看基因組 。
so it's really quite big .	這真的很大 。
and perhaps because of its size , a group of people all , by the way , with y chromosomes decided they would want to sequence it .	或許是因為它大小 , 一群人 , 和y染色體 , 牠們會想要追蹤它 。
and so 15 years , actually , and about four billion dollars later , the genome was sequenced and published .	15年後 , 基因序列出版了 。
in 2003 , the final version was published , and they keep working on it .	2003年 , 在2003年 , 最後版版的版本 , 他們繼續努力 。
that was all done on a machine that looks like this .	這一切都在機器上看起來像這樣 。
it costs about a dollar for each base a very slow way of doing it .	它花了一美元 , 每一塊錢都要花一點錢 。
well folks , i'm here to tell you that the world has completely changed and none of you know about it .	嗯 , 我在這裡告訴各位 , 世界已經完全改變了 , 沒有人知道 。
so now what we do is we take a genome , we make maybe 50 copies of it , we cut all those copies up into little 50base reads , and then we sequence them , massively parallel .	現在我們要做的是拿基因組 , 我們把所有的複製序列成五十個複製 , 然後我們把所有這些複製序列成小50頁 , 然後我們把這些複製序列給他們 , 大量的複製 。
and then we bring that into software , and we reassemble it and we tell you what the story is .	然後我們把這個軟體放到軟體上 , 然後我們把這個故事帶到軟體上 。
and so just to give you a picture of what this looks like , the human genome project: 3 gigabases , right .	舉個例子 , 人類基因組計畫:3giga 。
one run on one of these machines: 200 gigabases in a week .	其中一週是一週的一週 。
and that 200 is going to change to 600 this summer , and there's no sign of this pace slowing .	大約600年夏天 , 沒有標準的速度慢慢 。
so the price of a base , to sequence a base , has fallen 100 million times .	基礎的價格 , 一億倍 。
that's the equivalent of you filling up your car with gas in 1998 , waiting until 2011 , and now you can drive to jupiter and back twice .	等到2011年 , 等到2011年 , 等到2011年 , 等到2011年 , 等到2011年 , 等到2011年 , 等到2011年 , 等到2011年 , 等到2011年 , 等到2011年 , 現在你可以駕駛汽車 。
world population , pc placements , the archive of all the medical literature , moore's law , the old way of sequencing , and here's all the new stuff .	世界各地 , 所有的醫學文件、摩爾定律、摩爾定律、摩爾定律 , 都是新東西 。
guys , this is a log scale ; you don't typically see lines that go up like that .	這是一個邏輯 ; 你通常不會看到線像這樣 。
so the worldwide capacity to sequence human genomes is something like 50 , 000 to 100 , 000 human genomes this year .	所以 , 人類基因組的人類基因組大概是50萬個人類基因組 。
and we know this based on the machines that are being placed .	我們知道這個基於機器的機器 。
this is expected to double , triple or maybe quadruple year over year for the foreseeable future .	預期 , 三倍、三倍、三倍、三倍、三倍 , 甚至一年以後的未來 。
in fact , there's one lab in particular that represents 20 percent of all that capacity .	事實上 , 有一個實驗室 , 特別代表20%的所有能力 。
it's called the beijing genomics institute .	它叫做 「 基因組學院 」 。
the chinese are absolutely winning this race to the new moon , by the way .	中國人對新月球的速度很高興 。
what does this mean for medicine ?	對醫學有意義呢 ?
so a woman is age 37 .	女人是37歲 。
she presents with stage 2 estrogen receptorpositive breast cancer .	她用了乳癌的乳癌 。
she is treated with surgery , chemotherapy and radiation .	她用手術療法和輻射 。
two years later , she comes back with stage three c ovarian cancer .	兩年後 , 她再回到三種癌症 。
unfortunately , treated again with surgery and chemotherapy .	不幸的是 , 再次接受手術和化療治療 。
she comes back three years later at age 42 with more ovarian cancer , more chemotherapy .	再來三年後 , 三年後 , 三年後 , 三年後 , 更加強化療法 。
six months later , she comes back with acute myeloid leukemia .	六個月後 , 她回來了 。
she goes into respiratory failure and dies eight days later .	她進入呼吸器官失敗 , 第八天 。
so first , the way in which this woman was treated , in as little as 10 years , will look like bloodletting .	首先 , 在這個婦女的治療中 , 大約10年後 , 看起來像是血液 。
and it's because of people like my colleague , rick wilson , at the genome institute at washington university , who decided to take a look at this woman postmortem .	因為像我的同事、瑞克•威爾森 , 在華盛頓大學的研究人員 , 他決定要看看這個女士 。
and he sequenced , he took skin cells , healthy skin , and cancerous bone marrow , and he sequenced the whole genomes of both of them in a couple of weeks , no big deal .	他序列了基因組 , 兩週內 , 健康皮膚、健康皮膚、健康皮膚、健康皮膚、健康皮膚、健康皮膚、健康皮膚、健康皮膚、健康皮膚、健康皮膚 。
and then he compared those two genomes in software , and what he found , among other things , was a deletion , a 2 , 000base deletion across three billion bases in a particular gene called tp53 .	然後他把這兩種基因組合起來 , 結果是 , 他發現了 , 兩種基因組 , 叫做tp53 。
if you have this deleterious mutation in this gene , you're 90 percent likely to get cancer in your life .	如果你有這個基因的突變 , 你有90% , 可能是癌症在你的生命中 。
so unfortunately , this doesn't help this woman , but it does have severe , profound if you will , implications to her family .	不幸的是 , 這並不幫助這個女人 , 但它有嚴重、深深的影響 。
i mean , if they have the same mutation , and they get this genetic test , and they understand it , then they can go and get regular screens , and they can catch cancer early and potentially live a significantly longer life .	我的意思是 , 如果他們有同樣的突變 , 它們就能得到基因檢測 , 然後他們會發現它 , 並且有同樣的突變 , 就能得到基因檢測 , 並且能更長壽命 。
let me introduce you now to the beery twins , diagnosed with cerebral palsy at the age of two .	讓我向各位介紹一下雙胞胎的雙胞胎 , 診斷出兩者的雙胞胎 。
their mom is a very brave woman who didn't believe that the symptoms weren't matching up , and through some heroic efforts and a lot of internet searching , she was able to convince the medical community that , in fact , they had something else .	她們媽媽是個非常勇敢的女性 , 不相信症狀是非常勇敢的 , 不相信症狀是非常勇敢的 , 不相信症狀是非常勇敢的 , 不相信症狀是非常勇敢的 , 不相信症狀是非常勇敢的 。
what they had was doparesponsive dystonia .	他們的dystonia是 「 自動性慾望 」 。
and so they were given ldopa , and their symptoms did improve , but they weren't totally asymptomatic .	牠們的症狀也會改善 , 但牠們並不完全不適合 。
turns out the gentleman in this picture is a guy named joe beery , who was lucky enough to be the cio of a company called life technologies .	在這張照片中有幸運的是一位名叫jebeery的傢伙 , 很幸運的是 , 他很幸運 , 能夠成為一個叫做 「 生命科技 」 。
they're one of the two companies that makes these massive whole genome sequencing tools .	他們是兩家公司 , 讓這些巨大的基因組排序工具 。
and so what he did was he got his kids sequenced .	他做了什麼是他把他的孩子排序 。
and what they found was a series of mutations in a gene called spr , which is responsible for producing serotonin , among other things .	他們發現的是一系列的突變基因 , 叫做 「 酵素 」 , 它會產生 「 突變 」 的突變基因 , 叫做 「 酵素 」 。
so on top of ldopa , they gave these kids a serotonin precursor drug , and they're effectively normal now .	因此 , 他們給了這些孩子的腎上腺素藥物 , 他們給了這些孩子腎上腺素藥物 , 它們有效正常 。
guys , this would never have happened without whole genome sequencing .	人類 , 這個永遠不會發生 , 沒有完整的基因組排序 。
and at the time this was a few years ago it cost $100 , 000 .	幾年後 , 它花了十萬美元 。
today it's $10 , 000 . next year it's $1 , 000 .	今年是10000美元 。
the year after it's $100 , give or take a year .	一年後 , 花費100年 , 或一年後一年 。
that's how fast this is moving .	就是這樣移動的速度 。
so here's little nick likes batman and squirt guns .	這裡有一些蝙蝠俠和槍枝 。
and it turns out nick shows up at the children's hospital with this distended belly like a famine victim .	結果發現 , 尼克在兒童醫院的醫院中 , 比例如受害者 。
and it's not that he's not eating , it's that when he eats , his intestine basically opens up and feces spill out into his gut .	牠不吃吃 , 牠吃了 , 牠吃了 , 牠吃了 , 牠吃了 , 牠吃了 , 牠吃了 , 牠吃了 , 牠吃了牠吃的 。
so a hundred surgeries later , he looks at his mom and says , " mom , please pray for me . i'm in so much pain . "	一百個手術後 , 他看著他的媽媽說: 「 媽媽 , 請禱告 , 我很痛苦 。 」
his pediatrician happens to have a background in clinical genetics and he has no idea what's going on , but he says , " let's get this kid's genome sequenced . "	他的心理學科醫師在臨床遺傳學中有沒有想法 , 但他說: 「 讓我們讓孩子的基因組排序 。 」
and what they find is a singlepoint mutation in a gene responsible for controlling programmed cell death .	他們發現的是單單細胞死亡的細胞死亡 。
so the theory is that he's having some immunological reaction to what's going on to the food essentially , and that's a natural reaction , which causes some programmed cell death .	理論是 , 他有一些免疫反應的反應 , 會造成某些植物的反應 。
but the gene that regulates that down is broken .	但基因會被破壞 。
and so this informs , among other things , of course , a treatment for bone marrow transplant , which he undertakes .	因此 , 這類型態的治療是骨髓移植器 , 他的骨髓移植器 。
and after nine months of grueling recovery , he's now eating steak with a1 sauce .	在九個月之後 , 他已經吃了一套藥品 。
the prospect of using the genome as a universal diagnostic is upon us today .	使用基因組的基因組 , 如今日常的診斷 。
today , it's here .	今天 , 就在這裡 。
and what it means for all of us is that everybody in this room could live an extra five , 10 , 20 years just because of this one thing .	對於我們所有人來說 , 所有人都可以生活在這個房間裡的五十、十、十、十、二十年 。
which is a fantastic story , unless you think about humanity's footprint on the planet and our ability to keep up food production .	這是一個很棒的故事 , 除非你認為人類在地球上和我們能力能保持食物生產 。
so it turns out that the very same technology is also being used to grow new lines of corn , wheat , soybean and other crops that are highly tolerant of drought , of flood , of pests and pesticides .	結果發現 , 同樣的科技也被用來培養出生長的新線 , 像是木頭、木頭、木頭、木頭、木頭、木頭、木頭、木頭、木薯 。
now look , as long as we continue to increase the population , we're going to have to continue to grow and eat genetically modified foods , and that's the only position that i'll take today .	現在 , 我們要繼續成長和吃基因改革 , 只要我們繼續成長 , 要繼續成長 , 繼續成長 , 這樣我才能繼續成長 。
unless there's anybody in the audience that would like to volunteer to stop eating ?	除非有任何人在聽眾會想志願者停止吃飯嗎 ?
none , not one .	沒有人 。
this is a typewriter , a staple of every desktop for decades .	這是一架數十年 , 每個桌子的形狀 。
and in fact , the typewriter was essentially deleted by this thing .	事實上 , 這類型的字母是完全被這事的 。
and then more general versions of word processors came about .	接著 , 更普遍的版本詞典型態 。
but ultimately , it was a disruption on top of a disruption .	但最終 , 它是破壞的衝突 。
it was bob metcalfe inventing the ethernet and the connection of all these computers that fundamentally changed everything .	基本上改變了一切 , 基本上改變了一切 。
and suddenly we had netscape , and we had yahoo and we had , indeed , the entire dotcom bubble .	突然間 , 我們有了尼亞荷 , 我們有了 , 全部都沒了 。
not to worry though , that was quickly rescued by the ipod , facebook and , indeed , angry birds .	不值得擔心 , 它很快就被ipods、臉書、臉書、臉書、臉書、臉書、臉書、臉書、臉書 , 很快的 。
look , this is where we are today .	看 , 這是我們今天所面臨的 。
this is the genomic revolution today . this is where we are .	這是今天的基因組革命 。 這是我們所在的 。
so what i'd like you to consider is: what does it mean when these dots don't represent the individual bases of your genome , but they connect to genomes all across the planet ?	所以 , 我希望你們能想像一下:如果這些點不代表你基因組的基因組 , 而是它們與基因組的基因組聯繫在一起 。
so i just recently had to buy life insurance .	最近我需要買保險 。
and i was required to answer: a . i have never had a genetic test , b . i've had one , here you go , and c . i've had one and i'm not telling .	我必須回答:我從來沒有一個基因測試 , 我已經有了 , 我已經有了 。 我沒有一個基因測試 , 我已經有了 。
thankfully , i was able to answer a , and i say that honestly in case my life insurance agent is listening .	非常謝謝 , 我可以回答我 , 我說 , 真誠實說 , 我可以回答我 , 我說 , 真誠實在 , 我可以回答這個問題 。
but what would have happened if i had said c ?	但是如果我說過 , 會發生什麼事 ?
consumer applications for genomics , they will flourish .	消費者應用在基因組上 , 他們會很高興 。
do you want to see whether you're genetically compatible with your girlfriend ? sure .	你想要看到你是否和你的女友健康嗎 ?
dna sequencing on your iphone ? there's an app for that .	dna序列你的iphone嗎 ? 有一個應用程式 。
personalized genomic massage anyone ?	個人化基因組大屠殺嗎 ?
there's already a lab today that tests for allele 334 of the avpr1 gene , the socalled cheating gene .	目前已經有一個實驗室 , 叫做 「 第333333333 」 的基因 。
so anybody who's here today with your significant other , just turn over to them and swab their mouth , send it to the lab and you'll know for sure .	現在 , 任何人都知道 , 只要把它們丟進實驗室 , 你就會知道 。
do you really want to elect a president whose genome suggests cardiomyopathy ?	你真的想要選一個總統的基因組建議嗎 ?
now think of it , it's 2016 and the leading candidate releases not only her four years of back tax returns , but also her personal genome .	現在 , 想想看 , 它是2016年 , 還有她的個人基因組 。
and it looks really good .	看起來很棒 。
and then she challenges all of her competitors to do the same .	然後她挑戰了所有的競爭者 。
do you think that's not going to happen ?	你認為這不會發生嗎 ?
do you think it would have helped john mccain ?	你認為它會幫助約翰•麥克卡嗎 ?
how many people in the audience have the last name resnick like me ? raise your hand .	有多少人在聽眾中有多少人聽過我 ? 請舉手 。
typically , there's one or two .	一般來說 , 有兩種 。
so my father's father was one of 10 resnick brothers .	我父親是10個退休的兄弟 。
they all hated each other .	他們都討厭彼此 。
and they all moved to different parts of the planet .	它們都移動到地球上的不同部分 。
so it's likely that i'm related to every resnick that i ever meet , but i don't know .	很有可能 , 我和所有我見過的人都認識 , 但我不知道 。
but imagine if my genome were deidentified , sitting in software , and a third cousin's genome was also sitting there , and there was software that could compare these two and make these associations .	但想像一下 , 如果我的基因組已經坐在軟體上 , 第三個兄弟姐妹 , 坐在軟體上 , 有軟體 , 並且有軟體 , 可以把這兩樣東西結合起來 。
not hard to imagine . my company has software that does this right now .	不難想像 , 我公司現在有軟體 。
and so imagine one more thing: that that software is able to ask both parties for mutual consents , " would you be willing to meet your third cousin ? "	所以 , 想像一下:這軟體可以問兩個兩個同事: 「 你願意和你的朋友分享你的第三個表演嗎 ? 」
and if we both say yes , voila ! welcome to chromosomally linkedin .	如果我們都說是 , 歡迎來到染色體的染色體
now this is probably a good thing , right ?	這可能是個好事 , 對吧 ?
you have bigger clan gatherings and so on .	你有更大的氣體 , 等等 。
but maybe it's a bad thing as well .	但也許這是一件壞事 。
how many fathers in the room ? raise your hands .	在房間裡 , 有多少爸爸 ?
okay , so experts think that one to three percent of you are not actually the father of your child .	好吧 , 專家們認為 , 百分之三的孩子沒有真正的父親 。
look these genomes , these 23 chromosomes , they don't in any way represent the quality of our relationships or the nature of our society at least not yet .	看看這些基因組 , 這些基因組 , 這些基因組 , 兩十三種基因組 , 這些基因組 , 這些基因組 , 這些基因組 , 我們的人類與我們社會之間的關係和我們社會之間的關係 。
and like any new technology , it's really in humanity's hands to wield it for the betterment of mankind , or not .	像任何新科技一樣 , 人類的手都可以在人類的手中 , 來了解它是人類的手 。
and so i urge you all to wake up and to tune in and to influence the genomic revolution that's happening all around you .	所以 , 我鼓舞你 , 直覺 , 改變你周圍的基因組革命 。
daniel kraft demos his marrow miner a new device that quickly harvests lifesaving bone marrow with minimal pain to the donor . he emphasizes that the adult stem cells found in bone marrow can be used to treat many terminal conditions , from parkinson's to heart disease .	丹尼爾•克雷克拉克雷克拉克雷克拉克雷克拉克雷克拉克雷克拉克雷克拉克雷克拉克雷克拉克雷克拉克雷克拉克雷克拉克雷克拉克拉克獎 , 他強調 , 讓它能被用來治療許多常常疾病 。 他強調到捐贈者 , 來治療許多精神疾病 。
biology , biotech , health , health care , medicine , science , technology	生物學、生物學、生物學、生物學、生物學、科學、科技 。
daniel kraft invents a better way to harvest bone marrow	丹尼爾•克雷克拉ft發明了一個更好的方法 , 來捕捉船骨 。
so i am a pediatric cancer doctor and stemcell researcher at stanford university where my clinical focus has been bone marrow transplantation .	我是骨髓移植手術 , 研究人員在史丹佛大學 , 我的臨床專注是骨髓移植手術 。
now , inspired by jill bolte taylor last year , i didn't bring a human brain , but i did bring a liter of bone marrow .	最近年來 , 我沒有帶出一個人腦袋 , 但是我拿了一座紅色的骨髓 。
and bone marrow is actually what we use to save the lives of tens of thousands of patients , most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphoma and some other diseases .	骨髓實際上是我們用來拯救生命的數千個病患 , 大部分的哺乳類和其他疾病 。
so , a few years ago , i'm doing my transplant fellowship at stanford .	幾年前 , 我在史丹佛大學 。
i'm in the operating room . we have bob here , who is a volunteer donor .	我在手術室裡 , 我們有一位志願者 。
we're sending his marrow across the country to save the life of a child with leukemia .	我們把他的火箭送出他的火箭 , 拯救了美國人的生命 。
so actually how do we harvest this bone marrow ?	那麼 , 我們如何把這骨髓帶到骨髓呢 ?
well we have a whole o . r . team , general anesthesia , nurses , and another doctor across from me .	嗯 , 我們有了一間全部的醫生 , 包括麻醉、護士和其他醫生 。
bob's on the table , and we take this sort of small needle , you know , not too big .	博士在桌子上 , 我們拿著這個小小的需求 , 不太大 。
and the way we do this is we basically place this through the soft tissue , and kind of punch it into the hard bone , into the tuchus that's a technical term and aspirate about 10 mls of bone marrow out , each time , with a syringe .	我們所做的是 , 把這個軟體組織起來 , 用軟體組織起來 , 將它轉化為骨髓 , 每次 , 大約10個骨頭骨髓 , 每次 , 用軟組織 。
and hand it off to the nurse . she squirts it into a tin .	牠把牠放進去 , 牠把牠放進一間 。
hands it back to me . and we do that again and again .	再一次 , 我再次再次重覆 。
about 200 times usually .	大約200倍 。
and by the end of this my arm is sore , i've got a callus on my hand , let alone bob , whose rear end looks something more like this , like swiss cheese .	最後 , 我的手臂上有了一支手 , 讓單單單單單單單單 , 像瑞士斯一樣 。
so i'm thinking , you know , this procedure hasn't changed in about 40 years .	所以我在想 , 你知道的 , 這段程序已經改變了40年 。
and there is probably a better way to do this .	可能有更好的方法 。
so i thought of a minimally invasive approach , and a new device that we call the marrow miner .	因此我想到了一個新設備 , 我們稱之為 「 火箭礦坑 」 。
and the marrow miner , the way it works is shown here .	而火箭礦工 , 它的工作是呈現出來的 。
our standard seethrough patient .	我們的標準病人 。
instead of entering the bone dozens of times , we enter just once , into the front of the hip or the back of the hip .	不是進入前面的前面 , 而是進入前面 , 進入前面 , 進入前面 , 而是進入前面 。
and we have a flexible , powered catheter with a special wire loop tip that stays inside the crunchy part of the marrow and follows the contours of the hip , as it moves around .	我們有彈性 , 用特殊的線路線路 , 讓它移動到處 。
so it enables you to very rapidly aspirate , or suck out , rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole .	所以它可以讓你快速迅速地跳動 , 很快就在一個洞內 。
we can do multiple passes through that same entry .	我們可以透過相同的乘法來做多次 。
and , so , very quickly , bob can just get one puncture , local anesthesia , and do this harvest as an outpatient .	很快的 , 波布可以只能得到一個創傷、當地的麻醉 , 不管是哪裡 , 就這樣 。
so i did a few prototypes . i got a small little grant at stanford .	所以我做了幾個原型 , 我在史丹佛大學做了一些原型 。
and played around with this a little bit .	用這一點點 。
and our team members developed this technology .	我們的團隊成員開發了這項技術 。
and eventually we got two large animals , and pig studies .	最後我們有兩個大型動物 , 以及豬研究 。
and we found , to our surprise , that we not only got bone marrow out , but we got 10 times the stem cell activity in the marrow from the marrow miner , compared to the normal device .	我們發現 , 我們發現 , 對於一般的裝置 , 我們發現的 , 不僅是骨髓 , 而是有十倍的幹細胞活動 , 比一般裝置還要有十倍 。
this device was just fda approved in the last year .	這個裝置只是fda應用在過去一年
here is a live patient . you can see it following the flexible curves around .	這裡是病人 , 你可以看到它追蹤著有彈性的曲線 。
there will be two passes here , in the same patient , from the same hole .	這裡有兩位相同的病人 , 同一個洞 。
this was done under local anesthesia , as an outpatient .	這是在當地的亞洲 , 身為一個獨裁者 。
and we got , again , about three to six times more stem cells than the standard approach done on the same patient .	再次 , 我們有三到六倍的幹細胞 , 比標準方法更幹細胞 。
so why should you care ? bone marrow is a very rich source of adult stem cells .	為什麼你要關心 ? 骨髓是個非常豐富的成年人幹細胞 。
you all know about embryonic stem cells .	你們都知道胚胎幹細胞 。
they've got great potential but haven't yet entered clinical trials .	他們有很大的潛力 , 但還沒有進入臨床試驗 。
adult stem cells are throughout our body , including the bloodforming stem cells in our bone marrow , which we've been using as a form of stemcell therapy for over 40 years .	成年人幹細胞在身體內 , 包含在骨髓內部的幹細胞 , 包括在骨髓中 , 包含了我們骨髓的幹細胞 , 包含了四十年內的幹細胞 。
in the last decade there's been an explosion of use of bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient's other diseases such as heart disease , vascular disease , orthopedics , tissue engineering , even in neurology to treat parkinson's and diabetes .	在過去的十年內 , 骨髓幹細胞可以治療病人的其他疾病 , 像是心臟病、肺臟病、肺臟病、肺臟病、肺臟病、肺臟病、肺臟病、肺臟病、肺臟病 , 甚至是神經細胞治療病人的疾病 。
we've just come out , we're commercializing , this year , generation 2 . 0 of the marrow miner .	我們剛剛出去 , 今年 , 一代2.0.0.0.
the hope is that this gets more stem cells out , which translates to better outcomes .	希望是 , 更好的結果會變得更好 。
it may encourage more people to sign up to be potential livesaving bone marrow donors .	可能鼓勵更多人願意冒險更多的人 , 可以鼓勵更多人來追求潛力的骨髓捐贈 。
it may even enable you to bank your own marrow stem cells , when you're younger and healthier , to use in the future should you need it .	甚至可以讓你能把你的心胸放進去 , 只要你更年輕、更健康、更年輕、更健康 , 需要它 。
and ultimately and here's a picture of our bone marrow transplant survivors , who come together for a reunion each year at stanford .	最後 , 這是我們骨髓移植手術的照片 , 每年在史丹佛 。
hopefully this technology will let us have more of these survivors in the future .	希望科技能讓我們有更多的生存者 。
physicist and surfer garrett lisi presents a controversial new model of the universe that just maybe answers all the big questions . if nothing else , it's the most beautiful 8dimensional model of elementary particles and forces you've ever seen .	物理學家和波斯維爾•格雷特雷特物理學家 , 和你所見過的最美麗的8d物理學家 , 和你所見過的任何東西 。
physics , science , technology	物理學、科學、科學 。
garrett lisi on his theory of everything	格雷特雷特在他的理論上看到了一切 。
whoa , dude . check out those killer equations . sweet .	沒錯 , 看看那些殺方方程式 。
actually , for the next 18 minutes i'm going to do the best i can to describe the beauty of particle physics without equations .	事實上 , 接下來18分鐘 , 我要做最好的 , 我可以描述美麗的粒子物理不平等 。
it turns out there's a lot we can learn from coral .	結果發現 , 很多我們可以從珊瑚身上學到 。
coral is a very beautiful and unusual animal .	珊瑚是非常美且不尋常的動物 。
each coral head consists of thousand of individual polyps .	每個珊瑚的頭包含數千個個體 。
these polyps are continually budding and branching into genetically identical neighbors .	這些蜜蜂會不斷被遺傳到基因上 , 牠們會不斷地被遺傳到基因上 。
if we imagine this to be a hyperintelligent coral , we can single out an individual and ask him a reasonable question .	如果我們想像這是個高智利的問題 , 我們就可以單單一個個別問他一個問題 。
we can ask how exactly he got to be in this particular location compared to his neighbors if it was just chance , or destiny , or what ?	我們可以問他如何在這個特定的位置 , 可以問他在這個特定位置的位置 , 還是有機會 ?
now , after admonishing us for turning the temperature up too high , he would tell us that our question was completely stupid .	現在 , 要告訴我們問題是完全愚蠢的 。
these corals can be quite kind of mean , you see , and i have surfing scars to prove that .	這些珊瑚都可以很有意義 , 我有很大膽的看法 。
but this polyp would continue and tell us that his neighbors were quite clearly identical copies of him .	但這波普會持續告訴我們 , 他的鄰居是非常明顯的同事 。
that he was in all these other locations as well , but experiencing them as separate individuals .	他在其他的位置都在這些其他位置 , 但在這些其他地位上 , 會讓它們分裂 。
for a coral , branching into different copies is the most natural thing in the world .	對珊瑚而言 , 世界中最自然的東西 。
unlike us , a hyperintelligent coral would be uniquely prepared to understand quantum mechanics .	不像我們 , 大量子力學 , 很不可思議的 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics very accurately describes how our universe works .	量子力學的數學是量子力學的數學 , 量子力學非常準確描述我們的宇宙 。
and it tells us our reality is continually branching into different possibilities , just like a coral .	它告訴我們我們的現實是持續不斷地擴展到不同的可能性 , 就像珊瑚 。
it's a weird thing for us humans to wrap our minds around , since we only ever get to experience one possibility .	對人類來說 , 很奇怪的是 , 因為我們只能經歷一個可能性 。
this quantum weirdness was first described by erwin schrödinger and his cat .	這種量子量子的描述是雙胞胎和他的貓 。
the cat likes this version better .	像是這個版本更好 。
in this setup , schrödinger is in a box with a radioactive sample that , by the laws of quantum mechanics , branches into a state in which it is radiated and a state in which it is not .	在這個設置中 , 法律量子力學的法律量子力學 , 用量子力學的原則 , 來源於量子力學的原則 , 而不是 。
in the branch in which the sample radiates , it sets off a trigger that releases poison and schrödinger is dead .	在這個區域中 , 它會釋放出毒劑和呼吸器 , 它會釋放出毒劑和作者 。
but in the other branch of reality , he remains alive .	但在其他的情況下 , 他仍然活著 。
these realities are experienced separately by each individual .	這些真實體驗分離每個人 。
as far as either can tell , the other one doesn't exist .	就算不存在 , 其他的情況也不存在 。
this seems weird to us , because each of us only experiences an individual existence , and we don't get to see other branches .	這似乎很奇怪 , 因為我們每個人都只有體驗一個獨立的體驗 , 因為每個人都只有經驗 , 因為每個人的體驗都是獨立的 。
it's as if each of us , like schrödinger here , are a kind of coral branching into different possibilities .	像schroldschr一樣 , 他們是種種植入不同的可能性 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics tells us this is how the world works at tiny scales .	量子力學的數學量子力學告訴我們這個世界是如何運作的 。
it can be summed up in a single sentence: everything that can happen , does .	它可以在單一句子:所有事情都能發生 。
but this does not mean everything happens .	但這並不代表一切發生 。
the rest of physics is about describing what can happen and what can't .	其他物理學的描述可能發生了什麼事 。
what physics tells us is that everything comes down to geometry and the interactions of elementary particles .	物理學告訴我們 , 一切都在幾何 , 物理學會告訴我們 。
and things can happen only if these interactions are perfectly balanced .	只要這些互動是完美的平衡 。
now i'll go ahead and describe how we know about these particles , what they are and how this balance works .	現在我要告訴大家 , 我們如何知道這些粒子 , 以及如何處理這些粒子 。
in this machine , a beam of protons and antiprotons are accelerated to near the speed of light and brought together in a collision , producing a burst of pure energy .	在這台機器中 , 原子和光線 , 形成了一顆光線 , 形成了一大堆積木 。
this energy is immediately converted into a spray of subatomic particles , with detectors and computers used to figure out their properties .	這個能量被轉化成一種噴射性粒子 , 和電腦用來找出它們的特性 。
this enormous machine the large hadron collider at cern in geneva has a circumference of 17 miles and , when it's operating , draws five times as much power as the city of monterey .	這種巨大的大型鐵粒在大型鐵柱中 , 當它運作時 , 大約有十七英里的速度 , 當它運作時 , 它的運作方式 , 大約是十七英里 。
we can't predict specifically what particles will be produced in any individual collision .	我們無法預測預測特定的粒子會在任何個體中產生 。
quantum mechanics tells us all possibilities are realized .	量子力學告訴我們所有可能性 。
but physics does tell us what particles can be produced .	但物理告訴我們粒子可以產生什麼粒子 。
these particles must have just as much mass and energy as is carried in by the proton and antiproton .	這些粒子必須有大量和能量 , 如同在波斯頓和維爾斯頓的粒子中 。
any particles more massive than this energy limit aren't produced , and remain invisible to us .	任何粒子比這個能量限制還要多大量 , 而我們還不見得出 。
this is why this new particle accelerator is so exciting .	這就是為什麼這個新的粒子加速器非常興奮 。
it's going to push this energy limit seven times beyond what's ever been done before , so we're going to get to see some new particles very soon .	它會把這個能量限制七倍 , 因此我們會看到一些新的粒子 。
but before talking about what we might see , let me describe the particles we already know of .	但在談談我們早已知道的粒子之前 , 讓我描述這些粒子 。
there's a whole zoo of subatomic particles .	這裡有一整個大粒子 。
most of us are familiar with electrons .	我們大部分人都熟悉電子 。
a lot of people in this room make a good living pushing them around .	許多人在這個房間裡有許多人在這個房間裡 , 使他們變得非常好 。
but the electron also has a neutral partner called the neutrino , with no electric charge and a very tiny mass .	但電力和電荷是電荷 , 沒有電荷 , 電荷很小 。
in contrast , the upanddown quarks have very large masses , and combine in threes to make the protons and neutrons inside atoms .	相反的 , 原子的質子和原子之間有非常大的質子和原子 。
all of these matter particles come in left and righthanded varieties , and have antiparticle partners that carry opposite charges .	所有這些粒子都在左邊和右邊的粒子 , 粒子是左邊和右邊的粒子 , 粒子是左邊和右撇子 。
these familiar particles also have less familiar second and third generations , which have the same charges as the first but have much higher masses .	這些熟悉的粒子比較少熟悉的粒子和第三代相同的頻率 , 相同的頻率較高 。
these matter particles all interact with the various force particles .	這些物質粒子和不同粒子互動 。
the electromagnetic force interacts with electrically charged matter via particles called photons .	電力電磁作用是電磁作用 , 電磁作用是電磁作用 。
there is also a very weak force called , rather unimaginatively , the weak force , that interacts only with lefthanded matter .	還有一種非常弱力的力量 , 而非想像力、弱力 , 而非想像力、弱力 。
the strong force acts between quarks which carry a different kind of charge , called color charge , and come in three different varieties: red , green and blue .	強大的力量在三種不同的不同種類中 , 叫做 「 紅色 」 、綠色和藍色 。
you can blame murray gellmann for these names they're his fault .	你可以把murraygellmann這些名字給這些名字 。
finally , there's the force of gravity , which interacts with matter via its mass and spin .	最後 , 重力的力量是重力的力量 , 重力的力量是重力的力量 。
the most important thing to understand here is that there's a different kind of charge associated with each of these forces .	最重要的是 , 要了解的是 , 與這些力量之間有不同的聯繫 。
these four different forces interact with matter according to the corresponding charges that each particle has .	這四種不同的力量互相作用 , 每粒子都有的反應 。
a particle that hasn't been seen yet , but we're pretty sure exists , is the higgs particle , which gives masses to all these other particles .	粒子的粒子還沒見過 , 但是我們很確定存在 , 希格斯粒子 , 粒子會產生一些粒子 。
the main purpose of the large hadron collider is to see this higgs particle , and we're almost certain it will .	大型鐵粒的主要目的是要看到這個希格斯粒子 , 我們幾乎一定會發現它 。
but the greatest mystery is what else we might see .	但最棒的神秘是我們可能看到的 。
and i'm going to show you one beautiful possibility towards the end of this talk .	我會給你們看一個美麗的可能性 。
now , if we count up all these different particles using their various spins and charges , there are 226 .	現在 , 如果我們把這些不同的粒子用它們的粒子組合起來 , 就會有22222 。
that's a lot of particles to keep track of .	有很多粒子可以持續追蹤 。
and it seems strange that nature would have so many elementary particles .	自然會有許多元素 。
but if we plot them out according to their charges , some beautiful patterns emerge .	但如果我們把它們分配給他們的目標 , 一些美麗的模式 。
the most familiar charge is electric charge .	最熟悉的電荷是電荷 。
electrons have an electric charge , a negative one , and quarks have electric charges in thirds .	電子電荷是電荷 , 電荷有電荷 , 電荷有電荷 。
so when two up quarks and a down quark are combined to make a proton , it has a total electric charge of plus one .	所以 , 當兩方夸克結合起來 , 就會產生一個電荷 。
these particles also have antiparticles , which have opposite charges .	這些粒子也有相反的粒子 。
now , it turns out the electric charge is actually a combination of two other charges: hypercharge and weak charge .	結果發現電荷是兩個其他載荷的結合: 「 高速和弱荷 」 。
if we spread out the hypercharge and weak charge and plot the charges of particles in this twodimensional charge space , the electric charge is where these particles sit along the vertical direction .	若我們把這些粒子放在這兩維空間中 , 電荷 , 電荷是這些粒子在兩維空間之間的電荷 , 載載荷蘭的電荷 。
the electromagnetic and weak forces interact with matter according to their hypercharge and weak charge , which make this pattern .	電磁和弱力和弱力互相溝通 , 會產生這種模式 。
this is called the unified electroweak model , and it was put together back in 1967 .	這叫做 「 獨立人工智慧模型 」 , 它在1967年就開始了 。
the reason most of us are only familiar with electric charge and not both of these is because of the higgs particle .	我們大多數人都熟悉電荷 , 因為希格斯粒子的原因 。
the higgs , over here on the left , has a large mass and breaks the symmetry of this electroweak pattern .	希格斯在左邊有大量的對稱 , 來對稱它的對稱性 。
it makes the weak force very weak by giving the weak particles a large mass .	它會讓弱力非常弱 , 使得弱力非常弱 , 使得弱力非常弱 。
since this massive higgs sits along the horizontal direction in this diagram , the photons of electromagnetism remain massless and interact with electric charge along the vertical direction in this charge space .	從大量的角度來看 , 電力和電荷之間的光線 , 電路線的電路線 , 電路線的方向是電路線 。
so the electromagnetic and weak forces are described by this pattern of particle charges in twodimensional space .	電磁和弱力是兩維空間的電磁和弱力 。
we can include the strong force by spreading out its two charge directions and plotting the charges of the force particles in quarks along these directions .	我們也能引導兩條路徑 , 讓它有兩條路徑 , 把它們的條件向方向向方向推向方向 。
the charges of all known particles can be plotted in a fourdimensional charge space , and projected down to two dimensions like this so we can see them .	所有的粒子都可以在四度空間中看到它們 , 像這樣我們就可以看到它們 。
whenever particles interact , nature keeps things in a perfect balance along all four of these charge directions .	當粒子互相作用時 , 自然保持在完美的平衡中 , 自然保持在一個完美的平衡上 , 自然保持在完美的平衡 。
if a particle and an antiparticle collide , it creates a burst of energy and a total charge of zero in all four charge directions .	如果粒子和粒子互相作用 , 它會形成一顆粒子和抗粒子 , 它會形成一顆粒子和抗粒子 。
at this point , anything can be created as long as it has the same energy and maintains a total charge of zero .	此時 , 任何東西都可以用同樣的能量和維持 , 只要它有相同的能量和維持總結 。
for example , this weak force particle and its antiparticle can be created in a collision .	例如 , 這種弱力粒子和抗粒子會在碰撞中產生 。
in further interactions , the charges must always balance .	在更進步的交互作用中 , 荷爾必須總是平衡 。
one of the weak particles could decay into an electron and an antineutrino , and these three still add to zero total charge .	其中一個弱粒子可以變成電子和它 , 第三顆粒子可以變成電子 , 而這些三顆粒子可以變成電子和它 。
nature always keeps a perfect balance .	自然總是保持完美的平衡 。
so these patterns of charges are not just pretty .	這些圖案不僅僅是如此 。
they tell us what interactions are allowed to happen .	他們告訴我們互動如何互動 。
and we can rotate this charge space in four dimensions to get a better look at the strong interaction , which has this nice hexagonal symmetry .	我們可以在四維空間中旋轉這個載荷空間 , 讓它變得更好 , 更好觀察強大的互動 , 這對稱是對稱的 。
in a strong interaction , a strong force particle , such as this one , interacts with a colored quark , such as this green one , to give a quark with a different color charge this red one .	非常強大的力量 , 像這種綠色的互動 , 以一種強大的力量粒子 , 例如這個綠色 , 以一種強大的力量 , 以一種強大的力量 , 以一種強大的力量 , 例如這個紅色 。
and strong interactions are happening millions of times each second in every atom of our bodies , holding the atomic nuclei together .	強大的相互作用在我們的身體中每秒鐘內都有數百萬次 , 緊密相互作用 。
but these four charges corresponding to three forces are not the end of the story .	但這四個載荷 , 不是故事的第三次 。
we can also include two more charges corresponding to the gravitational force .	我們也能包含兩種更多的引力 。
when we include these , each matter particle has two different spin charges , spinup and spindown .	每條粒子都有兩種不同的旋轉 , 粒子有兩種不同的旋轉和旋轉 。
so they all split , and give a nice pattern in sixdimensional charge space .	所以它們都在六維空間中提供一個很好的模式 。
we can rotate this pattern in six dimensions , and see that it's quite pretty .	我們可以在六度空間中進行這個模式 , 看到它非常非常 。
right now , this pattern matches our best current knowledge of how nature is built at the tiny scales of these elementary particles .	現在 , 這個圖案是我們最好的知識 , 圖形在這些元素的知識中 , 形成了我們最好的知識 。
this is what we know for certain .	這是我們所知的 。
some of these particles are at the very limit of what we've been able to reach with experiments .	有些粒子是非常限的 , 我們能達到實驗 。
from this pattern , we already know the particle physics of these tiny scales . the way the universe works with these tiny scales is very beautiful .	從這個模式中 , 我們已經知道粒子物理和這些微小的粒子物理 , 它們非常美麗 。
but now i'm going to discuss some new and old ideas about things we don't know yet .	但是現在我要討論一些新和古老的想法 , 我們不知道 。
we want to expand this pattern using mathematics alone , and see if we can get our hands on the whole enchilada .	我們想要擴展這個模式 , 看看如果我們能把我們的手放在整個國內 。
we want to find all the particles and forces that make a complete picture of our universe .	我們想要找到所有的粒子和力量 , 使我們宇宙中的所有粒子 。
and we want to use this picture to predict new particles that we'll see when experiments reach higher energies .	我們想要用這張照片來預測新的粒子 , 我們想要用這張圖來預測新的粒子 , 來預測新的粒子 , 來預測新的粒子 。
so there's an old idea in particle physics that this known pattern of charges , which is not very symmetric , could emerge from a more perfect pattern that gets broken similar to how the higgs particle breaks the electroweak pattern to give electromagnetism .	因此 , 粒子物理的構想是對稱的 , 沒有非常正確的模式 , 可以讓電磁共振動作更完美的模式 , 讓電磁共振 , 讓電磁共振 。
in order to do this , we need to introduce new forces with new charge directions .	為了做到這一點 , 我們需要介紹新載荷的新載荷 。
when we introduce a new direction , we get to guess what charges the particles have along this direction , and then we can rotate it in with the others .	當我們介紹一個新的方向時 , 我們就可以把它帶到另一邊 。
if we guess wisely , we can construct the standard charges in six charge dimensions as a broken symmetry of this more perfect pattern in seven charge dimensions .	若我們能把標準標準放在六個載荷空間中 , 我們就可以建構標準的標準標準 , 以六個載荷的標準目標 。
this particular choice corresponds to a grand unified theory introduced by pati and salam in 1973 .	這個特定的理論在1973年被巴蒂和薩爾姆在1973年 。
when we look at this new unified pattern , we can see a couple of gaps where particles seem to be missing .	當我們觀察這個新發現的模式時 , 我們可以看到一些小小的粒子似乎被誤解 。
this is the way theories of unification work .	這是一種理論的理論 。
a physicist looks for larger , more symmetric patterns that include the established pattern as a subset .	物理學家看起來更大 , 更具體的形態模式 , 包括基礎的模式 。
the larger pattern allows us to predict the existence of particles that have never been seen .	大型模式讓我們預測存在的粒子從未見過 。
this unification model predicts the existence of these two new force particles , which should act a lot like the weak force , only weaker .	這種模型預測了這兩顆新粒子的存在 , 它應該要像弱力一樣 , 才能產生更大的作用 。
now we can rotate this set of charges in seven dimensions and consider an odd fact about the matter particles: the second and third generations of matter have exactly the same charges in sixdimensional charge space as the first generation .	現在我們可以在七度空間中進行旋轉 , 把這組裝置放在七度空間中 , 並且考慮一個奇怪的事實:第二 , 第三代 , 和第三代相同的載荷空間 。
these particles are not uniquely identified by their six charges .	這些粒子並不是獨特的六個載荷 。
they sit on top of one another in the standard charge space .	他們坐在旁邊的旁邊 。
however , if we work in eightdimensional charge space , then we can assign unique new charges to each particle .	然而 , 如果我們在八度空間中運作 , 我們就可以做出獨特的新載荷 。
then we can spin these in eight dimensions , and see what the whole pattern looks like .	然後 , 看看整個模式的樣子 , 看看整個模式的樣子 。
here we can see the second and third generations of matter now related to the first generation by a symmetry called " triality . "	現在 , 我們可以看到第二代和第三代的對稱 「 試驗 」 。
this particular pattern of charges in eight dimensions is actually part of the most beautiful geometric structure in mathematics .	這個特定的圖案之一是數學中最美麗的幾何結構 。
it's a pattern of the largest exceptional lie group , e8 .	這是最大型的圖案之一 , 8 。
this lie group is a smooth , curved shape with 248 dimensions .	這個圓形狀是248維度 。
each point in this pattern corresponds to a symmetry of this very complex and beautiful shape .	這個模式的對稱是非常複雜且美麗的形狀 。
one small part of this e8 shape can be used to describe the curved spacetime of einstein's general relativity , explaining gravity .	其中一個小部分 , 可以用來描述 「 愛因斯坦公平 」 的形狀 , 解釋重力 。
together with quantum mechanics , the geometry of this shape could describe everything about how the universe works at the tiniest scales .	用量子力學的形狀來描述宇宙如何運作 , 宇宙是如何運作的 。
the pattern of this shape living in eightdimensional charge space is exquisitely beautiful , and it summarizes thousands of possible interactions between these elementary particles , each of which is just a facet of this complicated shape .	這個形狀的圖形形狀在八維空間之間的相互作用 , 可以在八度空間之間的相互作用 , 它們的形狀是非常美麗的 , 它們之間的相互作用 , 它的形狀是非常美麗的 。
as we spin it , we can see many of the other intricate patterns contained in this one .	隨著我們加入它 , 我們可以看到許多其他的圖案在這個過程中看到 。
and with a particular rotation , we can look down through this pattern in eight dimensions along a symmetry axis and see all the particles at once .	通過這個模式 , 我們可以看到所有的粒子 , 看到所有的粒子 。
it's a very beautiful object , and as with any unification , we can see some holes where new particles are required by this pattern .	它是個非常美麗的物品 , 我們可以看到一些洞見到一些洞穴 , 以一種非常美麗的物體 , 以某種角度來看 , 我們可以看到一些洞穴 , 以某種洞見到新的粒子 。
there are 20 gaps where new particles should be , two of which have been filled by the patisalam particles .	有20個葡萄牙的小粒子 , 應該有20個葡萄牙的粒子 。
from their location in this pattern , we know that these new particles should be scalar fields like the higgs particle , but have color charge and interact with the strong force .	在這些新粒子中 , 我們知道這些新粒子應該是像希格斯粒子一樣 , 但有顏色和強力作用 。
filling in these new particles completes this pattern , giving us the full e8 .	在這些新粒子中 , 給予我們全美的八點 。
this e8 pattern has very deep mathematical roots .	這8個模式非常深層的數學根源 。
it's considered by many to be the most beautiful structure in mathematics .	它被認為是數學中最美麗的結構 。
it's a fantastic prospect that this object of great mathematical beauty could describe the truth of particle interactions at the smallest scales imaginable .	這是個很棒的數學美麗 , 可以描述在最小的宇宙中 , 數學美麗可以描述的真相 。
and this idea that nature is described by mathematics is not at all new .	大自然的概念是數學並不是全新的 。
in 1623 , galileo wrote this: " nature's grand book , which stands continually open to our gaze , is written in the language of mathematics .	在1623年 , 在1623年1623年 , 伽利略文字寫了: 「 大自然的本質是數學的力量 。 」
its characters are triangles , circles and other geometrical figures , without which it is humanly impossible to understand a single word of it ; without these , one is wandering around in a dark labyrinth . "	它的角色是三角形、圓圈和其他幾何圖形 , 不是人類無法理解單單一個字 , 沒有任何一個字 , 它的角色是三角形、圓圈和其他幾何圖形 。 」
i believe this to be true , and i've tried to follow galileo's guidance in describing the mathematics of particle physics using only triangles , circles and other geometrical figures .	我相信這是真實的 , 我相信這是真實的 , 我相信這是真實的 , 我相信這是真實的 , 我曾嘗試用三角形、圓圈和其他幾何圖形來解釋 。
of course , when other physicists and i actually work on this stuff , the mathematics can resemble a dark labyrinth .	當然 , 還有其他物理學家 , 我真的在研究這個東西 , 數學可以重新組成一個黑暗的黑暗實驗室 。
but it's reassuring that at the heart of this mathematics is pure , beautiful geometry .	但這數學的確是純粹、美麗的幾何 。
joined with quantum mechanics , this mathematics describes our universe as a growing e8 coral , with particles interacting at every location in all possible ways according to a beautiful pattern .	加入量子力學和量子力學所描述的宇宙 , 粒子和量子力學相互作用 , 由量子力學所描述的 , 我們的宇宙 , 和量子力學 , 這個數學描述我們宇宙中的每個位置 。
and as more of the pattern comes into view using new machines like the large hadron collider , we may be able to see whether nature uses this e8 pattern or a different one .	像大型的新機器一樣 , 我們可能可以看到自然使用的新機器 , 像是大型的新機器 , 我們可能可以看到它的新機器 , 像是大型的新機器 。
this process of discovery is a wonderful adventure to be involved in .	這個過程發現了一種奇妙的冒險 。
if the lhc finds particles that fit this e8 pattern , that will be very , very cool .	如果lhc會發現粒子 , 那會很酷 。
if the lhc finds new particles , but they don't fit this pattern well , that will be very interesting , but bad for this e8 theory .	如果lhc發現新粒子 , 但它們不符合這顆粒子 , 但它們不符合這顆粒子 , 但它們並不符合這顆粒子 。
and , of course , bad for me personally .	當然 , 對我來說 , 對我來說很糟 。
now how bad would that be ?	糟糕是怎麼樣的 ?
well , pretty bad .	嗯 , 很好 。
but predicting how nature works is a very risky game .	但預測自然運作是非常危險的遊戲 。
this theory and others like it are long shots .	這種理論和其他的理論是很長的 。
one does a lot of hard work knowing that most of these ideas probably won't end up being true about nature .	其中一個非常困難的工作知道 , 這些想法可能不會終於自然 。
that's what doing theoretical physics is like: there are a lot of wipeouts .	理論物理學就像:有許多野生 。
in this regard , new physics theories are a lot like startup companies .	在這個領域中 , 新物理理論就像創作公司 。
as with any large investment , it can be emotionally difficult to abandon a line of research when it isn't working out .	隨著任何大量的投資 , 它可以很困難 , 可以讓它無法在工作 。
but in science , if something isn't working , you have to toss it out and try something else .	但在科學上 , 如果你沒有工作 , 你必須去嘗試其他東西 。
now , the only way to maintain sanity and achieve happiness in the midst of this uncertainty is to keep balance and perspective in life .	唯一的方法是保持平衡和觀念 。
i've tried the best i can to live a balanced life .	我曾嘗試過最好的生活 , 可以活過最好的生活 。
i try to balance my life equally between physics , love and surfing my own three charge directions .	我試著平衡我的人生平衡 , 我在物理學、愛和雙手之間的三條路線 。
this way , even if the physics i work on comes to nothing , i still know i've lived a good life .	即使是物理學 , 我仍然知道我生活過了好的生活 。
and i try to live in beautiful places .	我試著住在美麗的地方 。
for most of the past ten years i've lived on the island of maui , a very beautiful place .	大部分過去十年來我住在馬烏托島 , 非常美麗的地方 。
now it's one of the greatest mysteries in the universe to my parents how i managed to survive all that time without engaging in anything resembling fulltime employment .	這是我宇宙中最棒的謎題之一 , 是我父母在我父母中學到什麼時間 , 不用在任何一場演奏中 。
i'm going to let you in on that secret .	我要讓你們看看這個秘密 。
this was a view from my home office on maui .	這是我家辦公室的照片 。
and you may have noticed that these beautiful views are similar , but in slightly different places .	你們可能注意到這些美麗的觀點是相似的 , 但在不同的地方 。
that's because this used to be my home and office on maui .	因為這是我家和辦公室 。
i've chosen a very unusual life .	我選擇了非常不尋常的生活 。
but not worrying about rent allowed me to spend my time doing what i love .	但不擔心 , 讓我花時間在做我喜歡的事 。
living a nomadic existence has been hard at times , but it's allowed me to live in beautiful places and keep a balance in my life that i've been happy with .	生活在美麗的平衡中 , 它讓我活在美麗的地方 , 並且保持平衡 , 讓我生活在美麗的地方 , 並且保持平衡 。
it allows me to spend a lot of my time hanging out with hyperintelligent coral .	它讓我花很多時間和高溫度的健康 。
but i also greatly enjoy the company of hyperintelligent people .	但我也很享受高興的公司 。
so i'm very happy to have been invited here to ted .	我很高興能邀請ted 。
chris anderson: i probably understood two percent of that , but i still absolutely loved it . so i'm going to sound dumb .	克里斯•安德森:我可以理解2% , 但我仍然很喜歡它 , 但我仍然很喜歡它 。 所以我會聽起來 。
your theory of everything garrett lisi: i'm used to coral .	你的理論是:我在珊瑚 。
ca: that's right . the reason it's got a few people at least excited is because , if you're right , it brings gravity and quantum theory together .	克里斯:那是正確的 , 因為如果你是正確的 , 它會帶來重力和量子理論 。
so are you saying that we should think of the universe , at its heart that the smallest things that there are , are somehow an e8 object of possibility ?	所以 , 你說我們應該認為宇宙是最小的事物 , 最小的部分 , 就是它的心臟 , 最小的部分 , 大概是8個可能性嗎 ?
i mean , is there a scale to it , at the smallest scale , or . . . ?	我是說 , 在最小規模的尺度上 , 還是......
gl: well , right now the pattern i showed you that corresponds to what we know about elementary particle physics that already corresponds to a very beautiful shape .	格爾:嗯 , 現在 , 我展示給你們看的圖案 , 就是對我們所知的基本粒子物理反應 , 正是對我們所知的基本粒子物理反應 。
and that's the one that i said we knew for certain .	這是我所說的 。
and that shape has remarkable similarities and the way it fits into this e8 pattern could be the rest of the picture .	這種形狀很相似 , 相似的位置 , 以相似的形狀 , 相似的位置 , 可以呈現出相同的圖形 。
and these patterns of points that i've shown for you actually represent symmetries of this highdimensional object that would be warping and moving and dancing over the space time that we experience .	這些圖案 , 就是我展示給你們展示的對稱性質量 , 使我們體驗到的空間時間 。
and that would be what explains all these elementary particles that we see .	這就是我們所看到的所有元素 。
ca: but a string theorist , as i understand it , explains electrons in terms of much smaller strings vibrating i know you don't like string theory vibrating inside it .	克里斯:我知道你不喜歡弦弦弦弦理論 , 我知道你不喜歡弦弦理論 。
how should we think of an electron in relation to e8 ?	我們應該如何把電子和8歲的電子相對呢 ?
gl: no , it would be one of the symmetries of this e8 shape .	格爾:不 , 它會是這個8形狀的對稱 。
so what's happening is , as the shape is moving over spacetime , it's twisting . and the direction it's twisting as it moves is what particle we see . so it would be ca: the size of the e8 shape , how does that relate to the electron ?	所以 , 結果是 , 隨著它移動的速度 , 我們看到的速度是小的 , 隨著形狀的移動 , 我們看到的速度是8形狀的 , 它會形成旋轉 , 和電子的方向相反 。
i kind of feel like i need that for my picture .	我覺得我需要我的照片 。
is it bigger ? is it smaller ?	它更大嗎 ? 更小嗎 ?
gl: well , as far as we know electrons are point particles , so this would be going down to the smallest possible scales .	格爾:嗯 , 我們知道電子是粒子 , 所以這將會將下降到最小的可能性 。
so the way these things are explained in quantum field theory is , all possibilities are expanding and developing at once .	在量子理論上 , 所有可能性都在量子理論上 , 都在量子理論上 , 都在量子理論上 。
and this is why i use the analogy to coral .	這就是為什麼我用這種方法來做 。
and in this way , the way that e8 comes in is it will be as a shape that's attached at each point in spacetime .	順便一提 , 在這個情況下 , 它會變成形狀的形狀 。
and , as i said , the way the shape twists the directional along which way the shape is twisting as it moves over this curved surface is what the elementary particles are , themselves .	如同我所說的 , 形狀扭曲曲線的形狀 , 扭曲曲線的形狀 , 扭曲曲線的形狀 。
so through quantum field theory , they manifest themselves as points and interact that way .	通過量子理論 , 他們用量子理論 , 來做點和互動 。
i don't know if i'll be able to make this any clearer .	我不知道我是否能讓它變得更清楚 。
ca: it doesn't really matter .	克里斯:這不是真的很重要 。
it's evoking a kind of sense of wonder , and i certainly want to understand more of this .	要了解這一點 , 我肯定想要了解更多 。
but thank you so much for coming . that was absolutely fascinating .	但謝謝你 , 很棒 。
the legendary chimpanzee researcher jane goodall talks about tacare and her other community projects , which help people in booming african towns live sidebyside with threatened animals .	法律黑猩猩和其他社群專案 , 幫助人們在非洲城鎮 , 與威脅性動物合作 。
africa , animals , biodiversity , environment , global issues , pollution , primates , science	非洲、動物、生物多樣性、環境、環境、全球性、環境、環境、環境、環境、環境、環境、環境、環境、環境、環境、環境、環境、環境、環境、全球問題、
jane goodall helps humans and animals live together	珍珠幫助人類和動物一起生活 。
good afternoon , good evening , whatever .	午安 , 不好 , 不管怎麼做 。
we can go , jambo , guten abend , bonsoir , but we can also ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh .	我們可以去 , ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooh
that is the call that chimpanzees make before they go to sleep in the evening .	那就是黑猩猩在晚上睡覺的時候
you hear it going from one side of the valley to the other , from one group of nests to the next .	你聽到它從一間從一群的山谷 , 從一群到下一邊 。
and i want to pick up with my talk this evening from where zeray left off yesterday .	我想要用我的演講 , 來談談這一點 , 今天晚上 , 晚上就離開了 。
he was talking about this amazing , threeyearold australopithecine child , selam .	他談到這令人驚奇、三歲的兒童、三歲的孩子 。
and we've also been hearing about the history , the family tree , of mankind through dna genetic profiling .	我們也聽過dna基因改革 。
and it was a paleontologist , the late louis leakey , who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees .	當時是一位古學家 , 倫理學家 , 雷克斯•雷克斯 , 他其實是我在研究黑猩猩的路易 。
and it was pretty extraordinary , way back then .	這很不可思議 。
it's kind of commonplace now , but his argument was because he'd been searching for the fossilized remains of early humans in africa .	這很普遍 , 但他的爭議是 , 因為他在非洲的早期人類都在非洲 。
and you can tell an awful lot about what those beings looked like from the fossils , from the shape of the muscle attachments , something about the way they lived from the various artifacts found with them .	你可以告訴很多關於這些東西從各個角度來看 , 像是從各式各樣的角度來看 , 它們從各樣的角度來看 , 來自於各種藝術品的樣子 。
but what about how they behaved ? that's what he wanted to know .	但他們是怎樣的呢 ? 這就是他想要知道的 。
and of course , behavior doesn't fossilize .	當然 , 行為不會化 。
he argued and it's now a fairly common theory that if we found behavior patterns similar or the same in our closest living relatives , the great apes , and humans today , then maybe those behaviors were present in the apelike , humanlike ancestor some seven million years ago .	他認為 , 如果我們發現行為模式相似 , 或同一個共同的理論 , 如果我們發現行為模式 , 相似的 , 人類的祖先 , 可能是人類的祖先 , 在過去的幾百萬年前 , 人類的祖先是很常見的 。
and therefore , perhaps we had brought those characteristics with us from that ancient , ancient past .	因此 , 也許我們從古老的古老人身上學到了這些特性 。
well , if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution , you very often find people speculating about how early humans may have behaved , based on the behavior of chimpanzees .	嗯 , 如果你從黑猩猩的角度來看人類演化 , 你通常會發現人類進化的行為 , 通常會發現人類演化的行為 。
they are more like us than any other living creature , and we've heard about that during this ted conference .	牠們比其他生物更像我們在ted會議中
so it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzees are so like us , in certain aspects of their behavior .	所以 , 我會用這些黑猩猩的角度來評估這些黑猩猩的行為 。
every chimpanzee has his or her own personality .	每個黑猩猩都有自己的個人性 。
of course , i gave them names . they can live to be 60 years or more , although we think most of them probably don't make it to 60 in the wild .	當然 , 我給他們的名字 , 他們可以活到60年 , 甚至我們認為大部分的人都可能不用六十年 , 讓他們可以活到60年 。
mr . wurzel . the female has her first baby when she's 11 or 12 .	mr.wurzel , 她第一次嬰兒當她11歲或12歲時 。
thereafter , she has one baby only every five or six years , a long period of childhood dependency when the child is nursing , sleeping with the mother at night , and riding on her back .	每五或六年 , 每五或六年 , 她有寶寶 , 每五到六年 , 她有寶寶 , 她有寶寶 , 每五到六年後 , 她有寶寶 。
and we believe that this long period of childhood is important for chimpanzees , just as it is for us , in relation to learning .	我們相信 , 對於黑猩猩的長期來說 , 對於黑猩猩而言 , 對於黑猩猩而言 , 對於黑猩猩而言 , 對於黑猩猩而言 , 對於黑猩猩而言 , 對於黑猩猩而言很重要 。
as the brain becomes ever more complex during evolution in different forms of animals , so we find that learning plays an ever more important role in an individual's life history .	隨著大腦變得更複雜 , 我們發現學習扮演了更複雜的演化 , 所以我們發現學習扮演扮演的角色扮演著重要角色 。
and young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do .	年輕黑猩猩花了很多時間觀察他們的耳朵 。
we know now that they're capable of imitating behaviors that they see .	現在我們知道牠們有能力的模擬行為 。
and we believe that it's in this way that the different toolusing behaviors that have now been seen in all the different chimpanzee populations studied in africa how these are passed from one generation to the next , through observation , imitation and practice , so that we can describe these toolusing behaviors as primitive culture .	我們相信 , 這樣我們就能描述這些行為的行為 , 從一代到下一代 , 去觀察 , 那些被視為原始文化的行為 。
chimpanzees don't have a spoken language . we've talked about that .	黑猩猩不會有一種語言 。 我們談到它 。
they do have a very rich repertoire of postures and gestures , many of which are similar , or even identical , to ours and formed in the same context . greeting chimpanzees embracing .	牠們有一些非常豐富的韌性和姿勢 , 牠們有許多相似的 , 或甚至是同情形的 , 牠們有非常豐富的韌性和姿勢 , 很多都是相似的 , 或同情 , 甚至是同情形式的 。
they also kiss , hold hands , pat one another on the back .	牠們也抓住手 , 抓住手 , 把手放在背後 。
and they swagger and they throw rocks .	他們會把石頭丟掉 。
in chimpanzee society , we find many , many examples of compassion , precursors to love and true altruism .	在黑猩猩的社會中 , 我們發現許多的例子 , 像是同情和真實的親愛 。
unfortunately , they , like us , have a dark side to their nature .	不幸的是 , 他們像我們一樣 , 他們喜歡我們 , 很黑暗 。
they're capable of extreme brutality , even a kind of primitive war .	它們是非常殘酷的 , 即使是極端殘酷的戰爭 。
and these really aggressive behaviors , for the most part , are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group .	這些非常激勵的行為 , 大部分部分都在社群中對抗性行為 。
they are very territorially aggressive .	它們是非常大膽的 。
chimpanzees , i believe , more than any other living creature , have helped us to understand that , after all , there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom .	黑猩猩 , 我相信 , 人類和其他動物王國之間沒有鯊魚 。
it's a very blurry line , and it's getting more blurry all the time as we make even more observations .	這是個非常矛盾的線 , 同時 , 我們就會變得更清楚 。
the study that i began in 1960 is still continuing to this day .	我從1960年開始在1960年開始的研究 。
and these chimpanzees , living their complex social lives in the wild , have helped more than anything else to make us realize we are part of , and not separated from , the amazing animals with whom we share the planet .	這些黑猩猩 , 牠們的複雜社會生活在野生動物中 , 比其他東西讓我們了解我們是誰 , 牠們在野生動物身上 , 我們有了更多的動物 , 牠們在野生生存的動物 , 我們還能幫助更多 。
so it's pretty sad to find that chimpanzees , like so many other creatures around the world , are losing their habitats .	很難以發現黑猩猩 , 牠們的棲息地 , 牠們棲息地在世界各地 。
this is just one photograph from the air , and it shows you the forested highlands of gombe .	這張照片是從空中拍攝的照片 , 它展示給你森林的高地圖 。
and it was when i flew over the whole area , about 16 years ago , and realized that outside the park , this forest , which in 1960 had stretched almost unbroken along the eastern shore of lake tanganyika , which is where the tiny , 30squaremile gombe national park lies , that a question came to my mind .	那時我在那裏 , 大約十六年前 , 我從公園的角度來看 , 發現在這個地區 , 大約十六年前 , 我發現 , 在這座地區 , 大約16年前 , 我發現 , 在這個地方 , 一個問題來到我在座的海岸 。
" how can we even try to save these famous chimpanzees , when the people living around the national park are struggling to survive ? "	「 我們要如何拯救這些名黑猩猩 , 當人們生活在國家公園裡 , 那些有名的黑猩猩 ? 」
more people are living there than the land could possibly support .	更多的人都住在土地上 , 都有可能支持 。
the numbers increased by refugees pouring in from burundi and over the lake from congo .	數量增加了 , 從法律上升起 , 會增加 。
and very poor people they couldn't afford to buy food from elsewhere .	非常窮的人 , 他們無法買食物 。
this led to a program , which we call tacare .	我們稱之為 「 任務 」 。
it's a very holistic way of improving the lives of the people living in the villages around the park .	它是個非常有價值的人們生活在公園裡的生活 。
it started small with 12 villages . it's now in 24 .	它從12個村莊開始 , 現在就在24 。
there isn't time to go into it , but it's including things like tree nurseries , methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded , almost desertlike land up in these mountains .	沒有時間來到這裡 , 但它包含了像樹木般的土地 , 把土地放在這些山上 。
ways of controlling , preventing soil erosion .	可以控制、防止土壤 。
ways of reclaiming overused farmland , so that within two years they can again be productive .	重量的農地 , 兩年後 , 牠們可以再次生產力 。
working to help the villagers obtain fresh water from wells .	為了幫助那些村民 , 來幫助村民的水源 。
perhaps build some schoolrooms .	或許建造一些學校 。
most important of all , i believe , is working with small groups of women , providing them with opportunities for microcredit loans .	最重要的是 , 我相信 , 和小組女性合作 , 她們提供了微信貸款的機會 。
and we've got , as is the case around the world , about 95 percent of all loans returned .	我們已經發現了 , 全世界大約有95%的貸款 。
empowering women , working with education , providing scholarships for girls so they can finish secondary school , in the clear understanding that , all around the world , as women's education improves , family size drops .	賦予女性教育的教育 , 提供獎學金給女孩們 , 她們可以完成第二次學校 , 她們可以完成世界各地的教育 , 她們能提供獎學金給女孩們 , 她們可以完成第二課 。
we provide information about family planning and about hiv/aids .	我們提供關於家庭計畫和愛滋病的資訊 。
and as a result of this program , something's happening for conservation .	在這個計畫中 , 事情發生了保守 。
what's happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages , instead of looking on us as a bunch of white people coming to study a whole bunch of monkeys and by the way , many of the staff are now tanzanian but when we began the tacare program , it was a tanzanian team going into the villages .	重點是 , 在這些24個村莊裡 , 我們都不是在看我們一群白人 , 來研究一大堆猴子 , 但當我們開始計劃時 , 它是塔西班牙人 , 來研究一大堆猴子 , 而不是我們去研究一大堆猴子 , 如同一大堆猴子 。
it was a tanzanian team talking to the villagers , asking what they were interested in .	這是一個坦尚尼亞和村民 , 問他們對他們有什麼興趣 。
were they interested in conservation ? absolutely not .	他們對保育有興趣嗎 ? 絕對不是 。
they were interested in health ; they were interested in education .	他們對健康有興趣 , 他們對健康有興趣 。
and as time went on , and as their situation began to improve , they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation .	隨著時間開始 , 他們開始了解更多關於保守的需求 。
they began to understand that as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees , so you've got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides .	他們開始了解 , 亞洲山脈的土壤和泥土 , 所以你有這種可怕的土壤和泥土 。
today , we are developing what we call the greater gombe ecosystem .	現今 , 我們正在開發我們所謂的 「 更大的生物生態系統 」 。
this is an area way outside the national park , stretching out into all these very degraded lands .	這是美國國家公園的土地 , 把這些非常殘酷的土地帶進去 。
and as these villages have a better standard of life , they are actually agreeing to put between 10 percent and 20 percent of their land in the highlands aside , so that once again , as the trees grow back , the chimpanzees will have leafy corridors through which they can travel to interact as they must for genetic viability with other remnant groups outside the national park .	當這些村莊有更好的公園 , 牠們可以在國公園中找到牠們的樣子 , 牠們可以在國公園裡有一百分之二十的食物 。
so tacare is a success .	任務是成功 。
we're replicating it in other parts of africa , around other wilderness areas which are faced with extreme population pressure .	我們複製它的區域 , 在其他地區的地區 , 和極端的人口壓力 。
the problems in africa , however , as we've been discussing for the whole of these first couple of days of ted , are major problems .	然而 , 在非洲 , 我們已經討論過這幾天 , 大部分的問題都是主要的問題 。
there is a great deal of poverty .	貧窮很大 。
and when you get large numbers of people living in land that is not that fertile , particularly when you cut down trees , and you leave the soil open to the wind for erosion , as desperate populations cut down more and more trees , so that they can try and grow food for themselves and their families , what's going to happen ? something's got to give .	大量的人住在土地上 , 不管你在土壤開放的樹木 , 你就把樹木放下去 , 把樹木放進去 , 讓它們可以嘗試 , 把樹木放進去 , 然後你把樹木放下去 , 會如何 ? 有些事情會發生什麼事 ?
and the other problems in not only africa , but the rest of the developing world and , indeed , everywhere what are we doing to our planet ?	而其他問題不僅僅是非洲 , 而是在我們在地球上所做的事 。
you know , the famous scientist , e . o . wilson said that if every person on this planet attains the standard of living of the average european or american , we need three new planets .	你知道的 , 美國人 , 我們需要三個新星球 , 說如果每個人都住在平均歐洲或美國人 , 我們需要三個新星球 。
today , they are saying four . but we don't have them . we've got one .	今天 , 他們會說四個 , 但我們沒有他們 , 我們有了 。
and what's happened ? i mean , the question here is , here we are , arguably the most intelligent being that's ever walked planet earth , with this extraordinary brain , capable of the kind of technology that is so well illustrated by these ted conferences , and yet we're destroying the only home we have .	發生了什麼事 ? 我是說 , 問題是 , 我們的確有了 , 那些ted會議中 , 最聰明的是 , 我們的確有了這些ted會議 , 並且我們有了這些ted會議 , 我們的確是 , 地球上有這麼多的能力 , 並且我們有了這些ted會議 。
the indigenous people around the world , before they made a major decision , used to sit around and ask themselves , " how does this decision affect our people seven generations ahead ? "	世界各地的人都在他們做出一個重大決定 , 以後 , 問自己: 「 這決定如何影響我們的七代人 ? 」
today , major decisions and i'm not particularly talking about africa here , but the developed world major decisions involving millions of dollars , and millions of people , are often based on , " how will this affect the next shareholders' meeting ? "	今天 , 主要的決策不是我特別討論非洲 , 但開發出世界主要的決定 , 數百萬人 , 通常都是基於: 「 這會如何影響下一代人 ? 」
and these decisions affect africa .	這些決定會影響非洲 。
as i began traveling around africa talking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests , i realized more and more how so many of africa's problems could be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation .	當我開始在非洲各地談論問題時 , 我意識到更多 , 許多非洲的問題都可以在非洲的問題上 , 來到非洲的問題 。
so i began traveling outside africa , talking in europe , talking in the united states , going to asia .	所以 , 我開始旅行 , 談到歐洲 , 在歐洲 , 談到美國 , 和美國 。
and everywhere there were these terrible problems .	到處都是這些可怕的問題 。
and you know the kind i'm talking about . i'm talking about pollution .	你們知道我在談論污染 。
the air that we breathe that often poisons us .	我們呼吸的空氣就是我們呼吸的空氣 。
the earth is poisoning our foods .	地球是我們的食物 。
the water water is perhaps one of the most crucial issues that we're going to face in this century and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural , industrial and household chemicals that still are being sprayed around the world , seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience .	水水是我們要面對的最關鍵的問題之一 , 在這個世紀中 , 水資源都被污染 , 農業和家庭農業 , 都能被污染 , 水源是從過去體驗到的 。
the mangroves are being cut down ; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse .	溫室會被降低 , 像海嘯變糟的效果 。
we've talked about the soil erosion .	我們談到土壤 。
we have the reckless burning of fossil fuels along with other greenhouse gasses , so called , leading to climate change .	我們還有其他溫室氣候變遷 , 因此稱之為氣候變遷 。
finally , all around the world , people have begun to believe that there is something going on very wrong with our climate .	最後 , 世界各地的人都相信 , 我們的氣候變遷了 。
all around the world climates are mixed up .	全球氣候都混合起來 。
and it's the poor people who are affected worse .	它是窮人的窮人受到影響力更糟 。
it's africa that already is affected .	非洲已經被影響了 。
in many parts of subsaharan africa , the droughts are so much worse .	在撒哈拉沙漠地區的地區 , 乾旱變得更糟了 。
and when the rain does come , it so often leads to flooding and added distress , and the cycle of poverty and hunger and disease .	當雨水下降時 , 它通常會導致洪水、飢餓和疾病 。
and the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support , who are too poor to buy food , who can't move away because the whole land is degraded .	數位居民住在一個地區 , 沒有辦法離開 , 因為整個土地都被剝奪了 。
and so you get desertification creeping , creeping , creeping as the last of the trees are cut down .	所以 , 你得到沙漠化的食物 , 再回覆 , 最後的樹木就會被砍掉 。
and this kind of thing is not just in africa . it's all over the world .	這不僅僅在非洲 , 而是世界各地 。
so it wasn't surprising to me that as i was traveling around the world i met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope .	所以 , 不令人驚訝的是 , 當我在世界各地遇到許多年輕人 , 他們似乎失去希望 。
we seem to have lost wisdom , the wisdom of the indigenous people .	我們似乎失去智慧、智慧、智慧、智慧 。
i asked a question . " why ? "	我問一個問題: 「 為什麼 ? 」
well , do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain , the kind of brain that the ted technologies exemplify , and the human heart ? talking about it in the nonscientific term , in terms of love and compassion . is there some disconnect ?	你認為 , 人類心會在非科學領域中 , 來談談它在非科學領域中 , 人類心臟 , 和同情心 , 人類心臟 , 來談談它在非科學領域 , 「 人類心嗎 ? 」 或 「 人類心 」 ?
and these young people , when i talk to them , basically they were either depressed or apathetic , or bitter and angry . and they said more or less the same thing , " we feel this way because we feel you've compromised our future and there's nothing we can do about it . "	這些年輕人當我跟他們說話時 , 基本上 , 他們說: 「 我們覺得自己有不可思議 , 基本上 , 基本上是沒有人能做的事 。 」
we have compromised their future .	我們有了他們的未來 。
i've got three little grandchildren , and every time i look at them and i think how we've harmed this beautiful planet since i was their age , i feel this desperation .	我有三個小孫子 , 每次我看到他們 , 我覺得這個美麗的行星 , 我覺得這個美麗的行星 。
and that led to this program we call roots and shoots , which began right here in tanzania and has now spread to 97 countries around the world .	我們稱之為 「 根根和根源 」 , 開始在坦尚尼亞 , 到達97個國家 。
it's symbolic . roots make a firm foundation .	它是象徵性的 , 根源 , 來創造一個基礎 。
shoots seem tiny ; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall .	射射看起來很小 , 光線可以打破牆壁 。
see the brick wall as all these problems we've inflicted on the planet , environmental and social . it's a message of hope .	看到這些問題 , 我們在地球、環境、環境和社群 , 都是希望的 。
hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things .	全世界有數千個年輕人在世界各地都可以打破 , 讓它變得更美好 。
the most important message of roots and shoots: every single one of us makes a difference , every single day .	根源和根源的最重要的訊息是:每個人每天都能做出不同 。
we have a choice . every one of us in this room , we have a choice as to what kind of difference we want to make .	我們有選擇 , 每個人都在這個房間裡 , 我們有選擇 , 我們有選擇 , 我們有選擇 。
the very poor have no choice . it's up to us to change things so that the poor have choice as well .	很窮的選擇也不是選擇 , 而是我們要改變那些窮人的選擇 。
the roots and shoots groups all choose three projects .	根根和根根和根根都是選擇三個計畫 。
it depends on how old they are , and which country , whether they're in a city or rural , as to what kinds of projects .	它依賴他們在城市或鄉村 , 不管他們是城市或鄉村 , 哪種計畫 。
but basically , we have programs now from preschool right through university , with more and more adults starting their own roots and shoots groups .	但基本上 , 我們有了一些成年人 , 開始他們自己的根源和根源 。
and every group chooses , between them , three different kinds of project to make this a better world , recognizing that all these different problems are interconnected and impinge on each other .	每一組選擇 , 三種不同的問題都互相互相互相互相連結 , 並且將這些問題連結起來 。
so one of their projects will be to help their own human community .	所以 , 他們的計畫之一是幫助他們自己的人類社區 。
and then , if they're able , they may raise money to help communities in other parts of the world .	然後 , 如果他們能幫助社區 , 他們就能幫助社區在世界各地 。
one of their projects will be to help animals not just wildlife , domestic animals as well .	他們的計畫之一是幫助動物不只是野生動物 , 牠們的動物也一樣 。
and one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share .	其中一項計畫是幫助我們共享的環境 。
and woven throughout all of this is a message of learning to live in peace and harmony within ourselves , in our families , in our communities , between nations , between cultures , between religions and between us and the natural world .	深刻在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的家庭中 。
we need the natural world . we cannot go on destroying it at the rate we are .	我們需要自然世界 , 我們不需要自然世界 , 我們也不能去破壞它 。
we not do have more than this one planet .	我們沒有比這顆行星還要多 。
just picking one or two of the projects right here in africa that the roots and shoots groups are doing , one or two projects only in tanzania , in uganda , kenya , south africa , congobrazzaville , sierra leone , cameroon and other groups . and as i say , it's in 97 countries around the world .	僅僅僅僅在非洲 , 南非 , 南非 , 南非 , 俄羅根和其他團體 , 在烏干達、肯亞、南非、加州 , 南非 , 南非 , 南非 , 南非 , 南非 , 俄羅根 , 或兩個計畫 , 例如我說 , 在非洲 , 烏干達 , 肯亞 , 南非 , 南非 , 俄羅根 , 或兩項計畫 。
of course , they're planting trees . they're growing organic vegetables .	當然 , 它們正在培養樹木 , 它們會成長有機蔬菜 。
they're working in the refugee camps , with chickens and selling the eggs for a little amount of money , or just using them to feed their families , and feeling a sense of pride and empowerment , because they're no longer helpless and depending on others with their vegetables and their chickens .	他們在難民營中營養和雞蛋 , 花了數量錢 , 或只用它們來餵養他們的家人 , 因為他們無法幫助 , 和雞肉 , 去餵養他們的家人 , 因為他們不再無助 , 和雞蛋 。
it's being used in uganda to give some psychological help to exchild soldiers .	它在烏干達提供一些心理幫助 , 來給一些心理幫助 。
doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves .	像這樣的計畫 , 會把他們自己丟出來 。
once again , they're useful members of society .	再一次 , 他們是有用的成員 。
we have this program in prisons as well .	我們在監獄裡也有這樣的計畫 。
so , there's no time for more roots and shoots now .	所以 , 現在 , 沒有時間更多的根根和槍枝 。
but oh , they're also working on hiv/aids .	但喔 , 他們也在愛滋病 。
that's a very important component of roots and shoots , with older kids talking to younger ones .	這是根根和根源和根源的重要部分 , 年長的孩子們跟年輕人說話 。
and unwanted pregnancies and things like that , which young people listen to better from other youth , rather than adults .	而非成年人 , 年輕人會傾聽其他年輕人 , 而不是成人 。
hope . that's the question i get asked as i'm going around the world: " jane , you've seen so many terrible things , you've seen your chimpanzees decrease in number from about one million , at the turn of the century , to no more than 150 , 000 now , and the same with so many other animals .	希望 , 我在這個世界中看到的: 「 珍妮 , 你已經看過了許多可怕的事情 , 你已經看到了數百萬人 , 已經看不到15000萬人 , 和其他動物一樣 。
forests disappearing , deserts where once there was forest .	森林消失了 , 沙漠是森林 。
do you really have hope ? " well , yes .	你真的有希望嗎 ? " 好吧 。
you can't come to a conference like ted and not have hope , can you ?	你沒有希望 , 可以嗎 ?
and of course , there's hope . one is this amazing human brain .	當然 , 還有希望 , 人類的腦袋有希望 。
and i mean , think of the technologies .	我的意思是 , 想想科技
and i've just been so thrilled , finally , to come to people talking about compost latrines .	最後 , 我才剛剛提到 , 最後 , 來談談關於 「 人類談談 」 的聲音 。
it's one of my hobbyhorses .	這是我的喜劇 。
we just flush all this water down the lavatory , it's terrible .	我們只是把所有的水放到水下 , 它很可怕 。
and then talking about renewable energy desperately important .	接著 , 再生能源非常重要 。
do we care about the planet for our children ?	我們在乎我們的孩子的地球嗎 ?
how many of us have children or grandchildren , nieces , nephews ?	有多少人有兒童或孫子、腎上腺素 ?
do we care about their future ?	我們在乎他們的未來嗎 ?
and if we care about their future , we , as the elite around the world , we can do something about it . we can make choices as to how we live each day .	如果我們在乎他們的未來 , 我們就可以做些什麼 , 我們可以做些什麼 , 我們可以做些什麼 , 我們可以做些什麼 , 我們可以做些什麼 , 我們可以做些什麼 , 我們可以做些什麼 。
what we buy . what we wear .	我們買了什麼 。
and choose to make these choices with the question , how will this affect the environment around me ?	選擇會如何影響環境周遭環境的環境 ?
how will it affect the life of my child when he or she grows up ?	它會如何影響我孩子的人生 , 或她成長呢 ?
or my grandchild , or whatever it is .	或我的祖先 , 或任何東西 。
so the human brain , coupled with the human heart , and we join hands around the world .	所以 , 人類的腦袋 , 和人類的腦袋 , 我們加入世界各地 。
and that's what ted is helping so well with , and google who help us , and esri are helping us with mapping in gombe national park .	這是ted的幫助 , 幫助我們 , 谷歌協助我們 , 聯合國公園 。
all of these technologies we can use .	所有這些技術都可以使用 。
now let's link them , and it's beginning to happen , isn't it ?	現在 , 咱們一起連結它們 , 開始發生 , 不是嗎 ?
you've heard about it this afternoon . it's beginning to happen .	你已經聽過了 , 開始發生 。
this change , this change . to see change that we must have if we care about the future .	這種改變 , 改變我們必須照顧未來 。
and the next reason for hope nature is amazingly resilient .	希望大自然的原因是很驚人的 。
you can take an area that's absolutely destroyed , with time and perhaps some help it can regenerate .	你可以再生出一個區域 , 有時間 , 或幫助它能恢復 。
and an example is the tacare program .	舉例來說 , 這是標準計畫 。
i told you , where a seemingly dead tree stump if you stop hacking them for firewood , which you don't need to because you have wood lots , then in five years you can have a 30foot tree .	我告訴你們 , 如果你阻止駭客的樹木 , 你不需要因為你花了三十英呎的樹木 。
and animals , almost on the brink of extinction , can be given a second chance . that's my next book .	動物 , 幾乎是一本書 , 可以給第二個機會 。
it's inspiring . and it brings me to my last category of hope , and we've heard about this so much in the last two days: this indomitable human spirit . this determination of people , the resilience of the human spirit , so that people who you would think would be battered by poverty , or disease , or whatever , can pull themselves up out of it , sometimes with a helping hand , and take their part in society , and take their part in changing the world .	它啟發了我 , 希望 , 我們已經聽過這一點 , 不論是誰 , 我們已經聽過這一點 , 不論是誰 , 我們已經聽過這一點 , 不論是誰 , 你會認為會被貧困、或疾病 , 或疾病 , 不管是誰 , 我們都知道 , 在過去兩天中 , 我們已經聽過這一點 , 不論是誰 , 你會認為會被貧困、或疾病 , 或疾病 , 不管是誰 。
and just to think of one or two people out of africa who are just really inspiring .	僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅是兩人 , 非洲人都很鼓舞 。
we could make a very long list , but obviously nelson mandela , emerging from 17 years of hard physical labor , 23 years of imprisonment , with this amazing ability to forgive , so that he could lead his nation out the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath .	很久以來 , 他可以領導他的國家 , 讓他能領導他的國家 , 讓他能領導他的國家 , 讓他能領導他的國家 , 讓他能帶領他的國家 , 來源自自殺 , 但顯然有23年的穩定性 , 沒有血球 。
ken sarowiwa , in nigeria , who took on the giant oil companies , and although people around the world tried their best , was executed .	kensarowiwa , 在奈及利亞 , 他在奈及利亞 , 世界上最好的人 , 卻被執行 。
people like this are so inspirational .	像這樣的人很靈感 。
people like this are the role models we need for young africans .	像這樣的人 , 我們需要年輕的非洲人 。
and we need some environmental role models as well , and i've been hearing some of them today .	我們需要一些環境的角色模型 , 我已經聽過了一些環境的角色 。
so i'm really grateful for this opportunity to share this message again , with everyone at ted .	我非常感謝這個機會 , 和大家一起分享這個訊息 。
and i hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things , especially the roots and shoots program .	我希望有些人可以聚在一起 , 特別是根根和根根計畫 。
and just a last word on that the young woman who's running this entire conference center , i met her today .	僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅一個單單一個單單一位年輕婦女 , 我遇見她 。
she came up so excited , with her certificate . she was [in] roots and shoots .	她很興奮 , 與她拍攝 , 她的確是槍枝和槍枝 。
she was in the leadership in dar es salaam .	她在達爾•薩拉姆的領導者 。
she said it's helped her to do what she's doing .	她說它幫助她去做的事 。
and it was very , very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people , when they are empowered , given the opportunity to take action , to make the world a better place , truly are our hope for tomorrow .	對我來說 , 很令人興奮的是 , 我和她分享 , 希望能讓世界變得更美好 , 讓世界變得更美好 , 讓世界變得更美好 , 我們希望未來的機會 。
artist dianna cohen shares some tough truths about plastic pollution in the ocean and in our lives and some thoughts on how to free ourselves from the plastic gyre .	藝術家迪安娜•布萊納•柯恩分享了一些關於塑膠污染在海洋裡的真相 , 我們的生活和一些思想 , 來源自於塑膠污染 。
consumerism , global issues , green , mission blue , oceans , plastic	消費者主義、全球議題、綠色、海洋、塑膠 。
dianna cohen: tough truths about plastic pollution	丹娜•柯蒂:真相對於塑膠污染的真相 。
i'm a visual artist , and i'm also one of the cofounders of the plastic pollution coalition .	我是個視覺藝術家 , 我也是其中一位視覺藝術家 。
i've been working with plastic bags , which i cut up and sew back together as my primary material for my artwork for the last 20 years .	我和塑膠袋一起工作 , 我在過去二十年間 , 把這些塑膠袋帶回來 。
i turn them into two and threedimensional pieces and sculptures and installations .	我把它們放進兩個三維的雕塑和雕塑 。
upon working with the plastic , after about the first eight years , some of my work started to fissure and break down into smaller little bits of plastic .	大約在八年後 , 我的工作開始開始融入 , 小小的塑膠 。
and i thought , " great .	我心想: 「 很棒 。
it's ephemeral just like us . "	它就像我們一樣 。 」
upon educating myself a little further about plastics , i actually realized this was a bad thing .	讓我更進一步 , 我意識到這是一件壞事 。
it's a bad thing that plastic breaks down into smaller little bits , because it's always still plastic .	這是一件壞事 , 塑膠會變得更小一點 , 因為它總是持續塑膠 。
and what we're finding is that a lot of it is in the marine environment .	我們發現的是 , 在海洋環境中 , 我們發現很多 。
i then , in the last few years , learned about the pacific garbage patch and the gyre .	在過去幾年 , 我在過去幾年裡學到太平洋的垃圾和垃圾 。
and my initial reaction and i think this is a lot of people's first reaction to learning about it is , " oh my god !	我最初的反應就是: 「 我的天啊 !
we've got to go out there and clean this thing up . "	我們必須去清潔這東西 。 」
so i actually developed a proposal to go out with a cargo ship and two decommissioned fishing trawlers , a crane , a chipping machine and a coldmolding machine .	因此 , 我真的開發了一台機器 , 一台車船 , 一艘船 , 一艘船 , 一艘船 , 一艘船 , 一艘船 , 一艘船 , 一艘船 , 一艘船 , 和一艘船 。
and my intention was to go out to the gyre , raise awareness about this issue and begin to pick up the plastic , chip it into little bits and cold mold it into bricks that could potentially be used as building materials in underdeveloped communities .	我的意見是 , 將它帶進磚塊上 , 把塑膠帶進磚塊 , 把塑膠帶進磚塊 , 把塑膠帶進磚塊 , 把塑膠帶進磚塊 , 把塑膠帶進磚塊 , 把塑膠帶進磚塊 , 把塑膠帶進磚塊 , 把塑膠帶進磚塊 , 把塑膠帶進磚塊 , 把塑膠帶進磚塊 , 把它變成磚塊 。
i began talking with people who actually had been out to the gyre and were studying the plastic problem in the marine environment and upon doing so , i realized actually that cleaning it up would be a very small drop in the bucket relative to how much is being generated every day around the world , and that actually i needed to back up and look at the bigger picture .	我開始和大家談到 , 在海洋環境中 , 我意識到 , 其實 , 我意識到 , 其實 , 我意識到 , 其實是很小的 , 每天都在海洋環境中生長 , 我發現 , 實際上 , 我發現 , 其實 , 其實 , 我發現 , 實際上 , 我發現 , 其實 , 其實我需要再來看看更大的圖片 。
and the bigger picture is: we need to find a way to turn off the faucet .	更大的照片是:我們需要找到一種方法 , 來轉換 。
we need to cut the spigot of singleuse and disposable plastics , which are entering the marine environment every day on a global scale .	我們需要切割到海洋環境的環境 , 每天都在全球性的塑膠 。
so in looking at that , i also realized that i was really angry .	所以 , 我也發現我很生氣 。
i wasn't just concerned about plastic that you're trying to imagine out in the middle of the pacific ocean of which i have learned there are now 11 gyres , potentially , of plastic in five major oceans in the world .	我不只擔心你試圖想像在太平洋的海洋中 , 我在太平洋的海洋中發現現在有十五個巨大海洋 。
it's not just that gyre of plastic that i'm concerned about it's the gyre of plastic in the supermarket .	我不只會把塑膠的塑膠放在超市中心 。
i'd go to the supermarket and all of my food is packaged in plastic .	我到超級市場 , 所有的食物都包裝在塑膠上 。
all of my beverages are packaged in plastic , even at the health food market .	我所有的平均都包裝在塑膠上 , 甚至健康食物市場 。
i'm also concerned about the plastic in the refrigerator , and i'm concerned about the plastic and the toxins that leach from plastic into us and into our bodies .	我也擔心塑膠和毒素從塑膠帶到我們的身體中 。
so i came together with a group of other people who were all looking at this issue , and we created the plastic pollution coalition .	所以 , 我和一群人一起合作 , 我們創造了塑膠污染 。
we have many initiatives that we're working on , but some of them are very basic .	我們有許多項目 , 但有些都是非常基本的 。
one is: if 80 to 90 percent of what we're finding in the ocean of the marine debris that we're finding in the ocean is plastic , then why don't we call it what it is .	第一:如果80%到90% , 我們在海洋中發現海洋的海洋 , 我們會發現海洋的海洋中 , 我們發現海洋的海洋中 , 我們發現海洋裡的海洋 , 海洋的海洋是塑膠 。
recycling everybody kind of ends their books about being sustainable and greening with the idea of recycling .	再回收這些書 , 讓所有人都能回收 。
you put something in a bin and you don't have to think about it again .	你把東西放進去 , 不需要再次思考它 。
what is the reality of that ?	是什麼樣子呢 ?
in the united states , less than seven percent of our plastics are recycled .	在美國 , 不到7%的塑膠會被回收 。
and if you really look into it , particularly when it comes to plastic bottles , most of it is only downcycled , or incinerated , or shipped to china .	如果你真的去看它 , 特別是它會被丟掉 , 只會被丟到中國 , 只剩下去 。
it is downcycled and turned into lesser things , while a glass bottle can be a glass bottle again or can be used again a plastic bottle can never be a plastic bottle again .	它被被用來塑膠瓶 , 再一次塑膠瓶的瓶子 , 不用再一次塑膠瓶 , 再一次塑膠瓶 , 再一次塑膠瓶 。
so this is a big issue for us .	這對我們來說是個大問題
another thing that we're looking at and asking people to think about is we've added a fourth r onto the front of the " reduce , reuse , recycle , " three r's , and that is refuse .	另一件我們要去思考的事情是我們在 「 紅色 」 、 「 重新回收 」 、 「 重新回收 」 、 「 重新設計 」 、 「 重新思考 」 第三件事 , 就是拒絕 。
whenever possible , refuse singleuse and disposable plastics .	若可能 , 拒絕和可塑膠的塑膠 。
alternatives exist ; some of them are very oldschool .	替代方案 , 有些是古老的
i myself am now collecting these cool pyrex containers and using those instead of glad and tupperware containers to store food in .	我現在自己現在收集了這些酷的裝置 , 用這些酷的裝置 , 用這些酷的裝置 , 來儲存食物 。
and i know that i am doing a service to myself and my family .	我知道我在做自己和家人 。
it's very easy to pick up a stainlesssteel bottle or a glass bottle , if you're traveling and you've forgotten to bring your stainlesssteel bottle and fill that up with water or filtered water , versus purchasing plastic bottled water .	很簡單是要把你丟掉的水帶到水裡 , 或填滿水、水、水 , 或水瓶 , 不管瓶子瓶 , 不管瓶子 , 或填滿水 。
i guess what i want to say to everybody here and i know that you guys know a lot about this issue is that this is a huge problem in the oceans , but this is a problem that we've created as consumers and we can solve .	我想告訴大家 , 我知道你們很多人都知道這問題在海洋中是很大的問題 , 但這是個問題 , 我們能解決這個問題 。
we can solve this by raising awareness of the issue and teaching people to choose alternatives .	我們能解決這個問題 , 並教導人們選擇選擇替代方案 。
so whenever possible , to choose alternatives to singleuse plastics .	所以 , 若能選擇選擇替代方案 , 選擇替代方案 。
we can cut the stem tide the stem of this into our oceans and in doing so , save our oceans , save our planet , save ourselves .	我們能拯救我們的海洋 , 拯救我們的海洋 , 拯救我們的海洋 , 拯救我們的海洋 , 拯救我們的海洋 。
this demo from pattie maes' lab at mit , spearheaded by pranav mistry was the buzz of ted . it's a wearable device with a projector that paves the way for profound interaction with our environment . imagine " minority report " and then some .	這位在麻省理工學院的 「 少數位置 」 的標準是 「 少數位置 」 的 「 少數量 」 和我們的環境 , 以便是 「 少數量 」 和我們的環境 , 以便是 「 少數量 」 和我們的環境 。
demo , design , interface design , technology	嗯 , 設計 , 設計 , 設計 , 介面設計 。
pattie maes and pranav mistry demo sixthsense	帕特•摩斯和帕特•馬斯和帕特拉蒂•瑪斯和三分之七十六 。
i've been intrigued by this question of whether we could evolve or develop a sixth sense a sense that would give us seamless access and easy access to metainformation or information that may exist somewhere that may be relevant to help us make the right decision about whatever it is that we're coming across .	我對這個問題很有興趣 , 或許能幫助我們做出正確的決策 , 不論我們是否能進化 , 或開發一個六種感知 , 來協助我們做出正確的決策 , 不管我們是否能做出正確決定 。
and some of you may argue , well , don't today's cell phones do that already ?	你們當中有些人可能會爭議 , 不是今天的手機已經存在了嗎 ?
but i would say no .	但我會說不 。
when you meet someone here at ted and this is the top networking place , of course , of the year you don't shake somebody's hand and then say , " can you hold on for a moment while i take out my phone and google you ? "	當你在ted和谷歌時 , 有人會說: 「 你能否再次拿出我的手機和google ? 」
or when you go to the supermarket and you're standing there in that huge aisle of different types of toilet papers , you don't take out your cell phone , and open a browser , and go to a website to try to decide which of these different toilet papers is the most ecologically responsible purchase to make .	或當你進入超級市場時 , 你就不用你的手機 , 打開瀏覽器 , 打開瀏覽器 , 把你的手機拿出來 , 來決定這些不同的文件 。
so we don't really have easy access to all this relevant information that can just help us make optimal decisions about what to do next and what actions to take .	所以 , 我們無法取得這些相關資訊 , 來協助我們做出最佳的決定 , 來協助我們做出最佳的決定 , 來協助我們做出選擇 。
and so my research group at the media lab has been developing a series of inventions to give us access to this information in a sort of easy way , without requiring that the user changes any of their behavior .	因此我的研究團隊在媒體實驗室裡研發了一系列的創作 , 使我們能取得這些資訊 , 不用擔心使用者改變自己的行為 。
and i'm here to unveil our latest effort , and most successful effort so far , which is still very much a work in process .	我來到這裡 , 我們最成功的努力努力 , 目前仍有許多成功的努力 。
i'm actually wearing the device right now and we've sort of cobbled it together with components that are off the shelf and that , by the way , only cost 350 dollars at this point in time .	事實上 , 我們已經把這些裝置裝置起來 , 用這些裝置來處理 , 只要花費350美元 , 就這樣 。
i'm wearing a camera , just a simple webcam , a portable , batterypowered projection system with a little mirror .	我是一台鏡子 , 一個簡單的網路攝影機 , 一個簡單的機械 , 一個簡單的機械 , 一個簡單的機械 , 一個簡單的機械 , 一個簡單的機械 , 一個簡單的機械 , 一個簡單的機械 ,
these components communicate to my cell phone in my pocket which acts as the communication and computation device .	這些元件在我的手機中交通通訊和計算裝置 。
and in the video here we see my student pranav mistry , who's really the genius who's been implementing and designing this whole system .	在這段影片中 , 我們看到我的學生的天才 , 他真的是真正的天才 , 設計了整個系統 。
and we see how this system lets him walk up to any surface and start using his hands to interact with the information that is projected in front of him .	我們看到這個系統如何讓他走到任何表面上 , 並開始使用他的手和資訊在他身上互動的資訊 。
the system tracks the four significant fingers .	系統追蹤了四個重要的指標 。
in this case , he's wearing simple marker caps that you may recognize .	在這個案例中 , 他穿著簡單的標記 , 可以辨識出 。
but if you want a more stylish version you could also paint your nails in different colors .	但如果你想要一個更強的版本 , 你也可以畫出不同的顏色 。
and the camera basically tracks these four fingers and recognizes any gestures that he's making so he can just go to , for example , a map of long beach , zoom in and out , etc .	相機基本上就是追蹤這些四個手指 , 並且辨識出他所能做的事 , 像是 , 一個地圖 , 像是 , 地圖 , 以外的速度 , 來看看 。
the system also recognizes iconic gestures such as the " take a picture " gesture , and then takes a picture of whatever is in front of you .	系統也認同 「 拍攝影像 」 的影像 「 拍攝影像 」
and when he then walks back to the media lab , he can just go up to any wall and project all the pictures that he's taken , sort through them and organize them , and resize them , etc . , again using all natural gestures .	當他回到媒體實驗室時 , 他可以直接走到任何牆上 , 把他們帶到任何牆壁上 , 再次使用各種自然的畫面 。
so , some of you most likely were here two years ago and saw the demo by jeff han or some of you may think , " well , doesn't this look like the microsoft surface table ? "	你們當中有些人可能認為: 「 嗯 , 這看起來有點像是微軟表面表面嗎 ? 」
and yes , you also interact using natural gestures , both hands , etc .	是的 , 你也會用自然的姿勢、雙手、雙手等等 。
but the difference here is that you can use any surface , you can walk to up to any surface , including your hand if nothing else is available and interact with this projected data .	但差別的是 , 你可以用任何表面來表面 , 你可以用任何表面來表面 , 你可以用任何表面來表面 , 如果你可以用任何表面 , 你就可以走到任何表面 , 可以用任何表面 , 可以用任何表面 , 可以用任何表面來表面 。
the device is completely portable , and can be . . .	裝置是完全可行的
so one important difference is that it's totally mobile .	所以 , 重要的是 , 它是完全行動 。
another even more important difference is that in mass production this would not cost more tomorrow than today's cell phones and would actually not sort of be a bigger packaging could look a lot more stylish than this version that i'm wearing around my neck .	另一個更重要的差別是 , 大量生產的比例 , 比現今的手機更大 , 更重要的是 , 不用在我的脖子上 。
but other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as tom cruise in " minority report , " the reason why we're really excited about this device is that it really can act as one of these sixthsense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you .	但 , 其它的例子是 , 例如 「 少數人 」 的例子 , 我們很興奮的是 , 它真的可以讓你在你面前的六個感應器官方案中 。
so we see pranav here going into the supermarket and he's shopping for some paper towels .	我們看到了一些紙幣 , 把這筆錢拿到超市中心 。
and , as he picks up a product the system can recognize the product that he's picking up , using either image recognition or marker technology , and give him the green light or an orange light .	當他選出這個系統的產品時 , 他能辨識出這個產品 , 可以辨識出它的產品 , 可以辨識出一個橘色燈光或標準的產品 。
he can ask for additional information .	他可以問更多的資訊 。
so this particular choice here is a particularly good choice , given his personal criteria .	所以這個特定的選擇 , 特別是選擇 , 給他的個人危機 。
some of you may want the toilet paper with the most bleach in it rather than the most ecologicallyresponsible choice .	你們當中有些人可能想要把紙帶給最大膽的選擇 , 而不是最生態的選擇 。
if he picks up a book in the bookstore , he can get an amazon rating it gets projected right on the cover of the book .	如果他拿出一本書書的書籍 , 他就可以得到亞馬遜的書籍 。
this is juan's book , our previous speaker , which gets a great rating , by the way , at amazon .	這是jan的書 , 在亞馬遜 。
and so , pranav turns the page of the book and can then see additional information about the book reader comments , maybe sort of information by his favorite critic , etc .	所以 , 普拉斯把這本書的書籍閱讀評論 , 將他最喜歡的評論評論 , 加入資訊 。
if he turns to a particular page he finds an annotation by maybe an expert of a friend of ours that gives him a little bit of additional information about whatever is on that particular page .	如果他把他推進一個專家的專家 , 會給他一個小小的額外資訊 , 給他一些小小的額外資訊 。
reading the newspaper it never has to be outdated .	閱讀報紙的報紙從來沒有必要 。
you can get video annotations of the event that you're reading about you can get the latest sports scores etc .	你可以看到你在閱讀的影片 , 你能得到最新的運動場景 。
this is a more controversial one .	這是一個更具爭議性的 。
as you interact with someone at ted , maybe you can see a word cloud of the tags , the words that are associated with that person in their blog and personal web pages .	當你和某個人交談時 , 你就可以看到一個字詞 , 你可以看到一個字詞 , 你可以看到一個字詞 , 和個人網頁的文字有關 。
in this case , the student is interested in cameras , etc .	在這個案例中 , 學生對相機很感興趣 。
on your way to the airport , if you pick up your boarding pass , it can tell you that your flight is delayed , that the gate has changed , etc .	在你的飛機場上 , 如果你把你的飛機運輸給你 , 你的飛機可以告訴你你的飛機 , 你的飛機 , 你的飛機 , 可以告訴你你的飛行是如此 。
and , if you need to know what the current time is it's as simple as drawing a watch on your arm .	如果你需要知道現在的情況是簡單的 , 把你的手臂放進去 。
so that's where we're at so far in developing this sixth sense that would give us seamless access to all this relevant information about the things that we may come across .	所以 , 我們在發展第六種感知 , 會讓我們無法取得所有相關資訊 , 來到我們所能取得的資訊 。
my student pranav , who's really , like i said , the genius behind this .	我的學生 , 像我說過 , 天才是如此 。
he does deserve a lot of applause because i don't think he's slept much in the last three months , actually .	他做了很多的評估 , 因為我不認為他在過去三個月內 , 真的很不舒服 。
and his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either .	他的女友可能不太快樂 。
but it's not perfect yet , it's very much a work in progress .	但它並不完美 , 但它仍在進步 。
and who knows , maybe in another 10 years we'll be here with the ultimate sixth sense brain implant .	誰知道 , 也許在十年後 , 我們將來到最後的第六個腦植 。
phyllis rodriguez and aicha elwafi have a powerful friendship born of unthinkable loss . rodriguez' son was killed in the world trade center attacks on september 11 , 2001 ; elwafi's son zacarias moussaoui was convicted of a role in those attacks and is serving a life sentence . in hoping to find peace , these two moms have come to understand and respect one another .	伊波菲•羅德里•羅德里•羅德里斯•羅德里•羅德里斯•羅德里•羅德里德•羅德里•羅德里斯•羅德里德•羅德里德•羅德里•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里斯•羅德里
culture , global issues , politics	文化、全球議題、政治 。
9/11 healing: the mothers who found forgiveness , friendship	9/11的道德:母親找到原諒、友誼 。
phyllis rodriguez: we are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship .	菲爾斯•羅德里:我們今天來這裡 , 因為事實上 , 我們有最多人認為一個不尋常的朋友 。
and yet , it feels natural to us now .	然而 , 我們現在的感覺很自然 。
i first learned that my son had been in the world trade center on the morning of september 11th , 2001 .	我第一次學到我兒子在世界貿易中心 , 早上9月11日 。
we didn't know if he had perished yet until 36 hours later .	我們不知道他還在直到36小時之後 。
at the time , we knew that it was political .	那時 , 我們知道這是政治 。
we were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son my husband , orlando , and i and our family .	我們很害怕我們國家會在我的丈夫、土地 , 和我們的家庭 。
and when i saw it and yet , through the shock , the terrible shock , and the terrible explosion in our lives , literally , we were not vengeful .	當我看到它時 , 震驚的爆炸是令人震驚的驚奇 , 令人驚訝的是 , 我們的生活中沒有奇怪的震驚 。
and a couple of weeks later when zacarias moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism , and the u . s . government called for a death penalty for him , if convicted , my husband and i spoke out in opposition to that , publicly .	幾週後 , 當薩索ui被判定到美國政府為 「 恐怖主義 」 和 「 恐怖主義 」 和 「 公共衛生 」 和 「 公共衛生 」 。
through that and through human rights groups , we were brought together with several other victims' families .	透過人類權利團體 , 我們和其他受害者的家庭合作 。
when i saw aicha in the media , coming over when her son was indicted , and i thought , " what a brave woman .	當我在媒體上看到一個勇敢的女人時 , 我心想: 「 一個勇敢的女人 。
someday i want to meet that woman when i'm stronger . "	有一天 , 我想要遇見那個女人當我更強壯 。 」
i was still in deep grief ; i knew i didn't have the strength .	我還在深深的悲慟 , 我知道我沒有力量 。
i knew i would find her someday , or we would find each other .	我知道我會找到她 , 或我們會找到彼此 。
because , when people heard that my son was a victim , i got immediate sympathy .	因為 , 當人們聽說我的兒子是受害者 , 我有了同理心 。
but when people learned what her son was accused of , she didn't get that sympathy .	但當人們知道她兒子被監控時 , 她沒有得到同理心 。
but her suffering is equal to mine .	但她痛苦的是平等 。
so we met in november 2002 , and aicha will now tell you how that came about .	我們在2002年11月2日 , 艾倫伯2002年11月 , 我們就告訴你們 。
aicha elwafi: good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen .	艾莉:好午 , 女士 , 女士們 。
i am the mother of zacarias moussaoui .	我是zacariassaoui 。
and i asked the organization of human rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims .	我問了人類權利的組織 , 讓我和父母受害者的關係 。
so they introduced me to five families .	所以他們介紹我五個家庭 。
and i saw phyllis , and i watched her .	我看著她 。
she was the only mother in the group .	她是唯一的母親 。
the others were brothers , sisters .	其他人是兄弟姐妹 。
and i saw in her eyes that she was a mother , just like me .	我看到她身邊的眼睛 , 就像我一樣 。
i suffered a lot as a mother .	我受苦了許多 。
i was married when i was 14 .	我在14歲時就結婚了 。
i lost a child when i was 15 , a second child when i was 16 .	當我十六歲時 , 我失去了一個孩子 。
so the story with zacarias was too much really .	zacariasacariasacarias太多了 。
and i still suffer , because my son is like he's buried alive .	我仍然很痛苦 , 因為我的兒子就像他被埋葬了 。
i know she really cried for her son .	我知道她真的哭了 。
but she knows where he is .	但她知道他在哪裡 。
my son , i don't know where he is .	我的兒子 , 我不知道他在哪裡 。
i don't know if he's alive . i don't know if he's tortured .	我不知道他是否有活性 , 我不知道他是否活著 。
i don't know what happened to him .	我不知道他發生了什麼事 。
so that's why i decided to tell my story , so that my suffering is something positive for other women .	這就是為什麼我決定要告訴我的故事 , 所以我決定要告訴我的故事 , 所以那就是為什麼我決定要告訴我的女性 。
for all the women , all the mothers that give life , you can give back , you can change .	所有婦女 , 所有女性 , 所有女性 , 都可以回來 , 你能改變 。
it's up to us women , because we are women , because we love our children .	因為我們是女性 , 因為我們是女性 , 因為我們是女性 , 因為我們是女性 , 因為我們是女性 , 因為我們是女性 。
we must be handinhand and do something together .	我們必須是雙手 , 一起做些事 。
it's not against women , it's for us , for us women , for our children .	不是對女性 , 對我們 , 對我們來說 , 對我們來說 , 對我們來說 , 對我們來說 , 對我們來說 , 對我們的孩子而言 。
i talk against violence , against terrorism .	我和暴力對抗恐怖主義 。
i go to schools to talk to young , muslim girls so they don't accept to be married against their will very young .	我去學校和年輕人說話 , 她們不接受婚姻 , 她們不接受婚姻 , 她們不接受婚姻 。
so if i can save one of the young girls , and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as i did , well this is something good .	所以如果我能拯救一個年輕女孩 , 她們可以拯救一個年輕女孩 , 她們會被結婚 , 我也很幸運 。
this is why i'm here in front of you .	這就是為什麼我在你面前 。
pr: i would like to say that i have learned so much from aicha , starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members which was a very private meeting with security , because it was november 2002 , and , frankly , we were afraid of the superpatriotism of that time in the country those of us family members .	帕爾:我會說 , 我很喜歡說 , 我在美國家庭成員的第一會議中 , 和其他家庭成員感到很高興 , 因為它是2002年11月 , 我們和其他家庭成員感到驚訝 。
but we were all so nervous .	但我們都非常緊張 。
" why does she want to meet us ? "	「 為什麼她想要見我們 ? 」
and then she was nervous .	然後她很緊張 。
" why did we want to meet her ? "	「 為什麼我們想要見她 ? 」
what did we want from each other ?	我們想要什麼 ?
before we knew each others' names , or anything , we had embraced and wept .	在我們認識彼此的名字 , 或任何東西之前 , 我們有擁抱和聯繫 。
then we sat in a circle with support , with help , from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation .	接著 , 我們和支持 , 協助 , 從人體驗到這類型態 。
and aicha started , and she said , " i don't know if my son is guilty or innocent , but i want to tell you how sorry i am for what happened to your families .	艾莉莎開始說: 「 我不知道我的兒子是罪犯或無辜 , 但我想要告訴你們 , 我是罪惡感 。
i know what it is to suffer , and i feel that if there is a crime , a person should be tried fairly and punished . "	我知道 , 我覺得如果有罪犯 , 一個人應該會被判斷 , 和懲罰 。 」
but she reached out to us in that way , and it was , i'd like to say , it was an icebreaker .	但她向我們介紹 , 我很喜歡說 , 這是一個冰箱 。
and what happened then is we all told our stories , and we all connected as human beings .	接下來發生的是 , 我們都跟人類一樣 。
by the end of the afternoon it was about three hours after lunch we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever .	在午午的午餐時 , 大約三小時 , 午餐之後我們都知道彼此 。
now what i learned from her , is a woman , not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then , and what was being done to her son , but the life she's had .	我從她身上學到的是女性 , 不僅僅是一位女性 , 還不只能在這些情況下的情況下 , 還能在接下來的情況下 , 以及她在接下來的狀況 , 以及她在接下來的狀況 。
i never had met someone with such a hard life , from such a totally different culture and environment from my own .	我從來沒有遇過一個非常困難的人生 , 來自我自己的文化和環境 。
and i feel that we have a special connection , which i value very much .	我覺得我們有一種特別的連結 , 我覺得我們有一種特殊的連結 。
and i think it's all about being afraid of the other , but making that step and then realizing , " hey , this wasn't so hard .	我覺得這有點害怕其他人 , 但 , 說: 「 嘿 , 這不夠困難 。
who else can i meet that i don't know , or that i'm so different from ? "	誰會知道 , 我不認識 , 或我不認識 , 我也不認識 ? 」
so , aicha , do you have a couple of words for conclusion ?	所以 , 阿icha , 你有幾個字結論嗎 ?
because our time is up .	因為我們的時間是上升的 。
aw: i wanted to say that we have to try to know other people , the other .	安:我想說我們必須試著去認識其他人 ,
you have to be generous , and your hearts must be generous , your mind must be generous .	你必須是慷慨的 , 你的心一定是慷慨的 。
you must be tolerant .	你一定要接受 。
you have to fight against violence .	你必須對抗暴力 。
and i hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other .	我希望我們每天都一起和平和平 , 並尊重彼此 。
this is what i wanted to say .	這是我想要說的 。
too much of the world lacks access to clean drinking water . engineer michael pritchard did something about it inventing the portable lifesaver filter , which can make the most revolting water drinkable in seconds . an amazing demo from tedglobal 2009 .	太多的水滴水滴水滴水滴水 , 可是從tedglobalpritchard做了一件事 , 可以製造出最不可思議的飲用水 , 可是2009年 , 工程師michaelpritchard 。
business , demo , design , global issues , invention , technology , water	商業、設計、科技、水資源 。
michael pritchard's water filter turns filthy water drinkable	michaelpritchard的水滴水滴水 。
i'd like to talk about a couple of things today .	今天我想談談幾件事 。
the first thing is water .	第一件事是水 。
now i see you've all been enjoying the water that's been provided for you here at the conference , over the past couple of days .	現在 , 我看到你們已經享受過幾天的水 。
and i'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source .	我相信你們會覺得它是安全的 。
but what if it wasn't ?	但如果不是呢 ?
what if it was from a source like this ?	如果它是從源頭來源呢 ?
then statistics would actually say that half of you would now be suffering with diarrhea .	統計數字會說 , 你現在有一半的人會受苦 。
i talked a lot in the past about statistics , and the provision of safe drinking water for all .	我曾談過許多關於統計數據 , 並且在過去的統計數據上 , 和它的安全飲食水 。
but they just don't seem to get through .	但他們似乎沒辦法做到 。
and i think i've worked out why .	我認為我已經做過了 。
it's because , using current thinking , the scale of the problem just seems too huge to contemplate solving .	因為 , 用目前的思考方式 , 規模的問題似乎太大了 。
so we just switch off: us , governments and aid agencies .	所以我們只關閉了:我們 , 政府和援助機構 。
well , today , i'd like to show you that through thinking differently , the problem has been solved .	今天 , 我想讓大家看看 , 問題已經解決了 。
by the way , since i've been speaking , another 13 , 000 people around the world are suffering now with diarrhea .	順便一提 , 我已經說過 , 世界上有三千人 , 從我開始說話時 , 已經有了三千人 。
and four children have just died .	四個孩子已經死了 。
i invented lifesaver bottle because i got angry .	我發明了生命saversaversaversaversa , 因為我很生氣 。
i , like most of you , was sitting down , the day after christmas in 2004 , when i was watching the devastating news of the asian tsunami as it rolled in , playing out on tv .	我大部分人都坐在那天 , 在2004年 , 我在聖誕節 , 在聖誕節時 , 天在聖誕節 , 在2004年時 , 我在電視上看到了聖誕節的新聞 。
the days and weeks that followed , people fleeing to the hills , being forced to drink contaminated water or face death .	幾週後 , 人們逃到海岸 , 被迫要喝污染水或面對死亡 。
that really stuck with me .	這真的很困惑 。
then , a few months later , hurricane katrina slammed into the side of america .	接著 , 幾個月後 , 颶風雨到美國 。
" okay , " i thought , " here's a first world country , let's see what they can do . "	「 嗯 , 我想 , 這是第一個世界國家 , 我們來看看他們能做什麼 。 」
do you know it took five days to get water to the superdome ?	你知道這花了五天的時間 , 把水帶到超級嗎 ?
people were shooting each other on the streets for tv sets and water .	人們在街上拍攝 , 電視和水 。
that's when i decided i had to do something .	那是我決定要做的事 。
now i spent a lot of time in my garage , over the next weeks and months , and also in my kitchen much to the dismay of my wife .	我花了很多時間在我的妻子裡 , 花了很多時間在我的妻子裡 。
however , after a few failed prototypes , i finally came up with this , the lifesaver bottle .	然而 , 在幾種失敗的原型之後 , 我終於找到了 , 終於 , 生命saversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaver
okay , now for the science bit .	好 , 現在 , 科學一點 。
before lifesaver , the best hand filters were only capable of filtering down to about 200 nanometers .	在生命saversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaver
the smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers .	最小的細菌是200奈米 。
so a 200nanometer bacteria is going to get through a 200nanometer hole .	所以 , 200奈米的細菌會進入一個200奈米的細菌 。
the smallest virus , on the other hand , is about 25 nanometers .	另一方面 , 最小的病毒是25奈米 。
so that's definitely going to get through those 200 nanometer holes .	所以 , 這絕對是有限的 , 把這兩百奈米的洞 。
lifesaver pores are 15 nanometers .	生命saverversaverversaverversaverversaverversaverversaverversaverversaverversaverversaverversaverver
so nothing is getting through .	所以 , 一切都沒辦法 。
okay , i'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration .	好吧 , 我要給你們看一些例子 。
would you like to see that ?	你想看看嗎 ?
i spent all the time setting this up , so i guess i should .	我花了所有的時間 , 所以我猜我應該 。
we're in the fine city of oxford .	我們在牛津的牛津 。
so someone's done that up .	有人會這樣做 。
fine city of oxford , so what i've done is i've gone and got some water from the river cherwell , and the river thames , that flow through here . and this is the water .	二氧化碳的水 , 我所做的是 , 我從河流到這裡的水 , 這是水 。
but i got to thinking , you know , if we were in the middle of a flood zone in bangladesh , the water wouldn't look like this .	但我要想 , 你知道 , 如果我們在孟加拉的地區 , 水不會看起來像這樣 。
so i've gone and got some stuff to add into it .	所以我已經開始了一些東西去加入它 。
and this is from my pond .	這是我兒子 。
have a smell of that , mister cameraman .	有一個氣味 , 密碼攝影機
we're just going to pour that in there .	我們只會在那邊 。
michael pritchard: okay . we've got some runoff from a sewage plant farm .	michaelpritchard:好 , 我們有一些從土地農業農業生長的 。
so i'm just going to put that in there .	所以我就要放進去 。
put that in there . there we go .	就這樣 。 我們開始 。
and some other bits and pieces , chuck that in there .	還有一些其他的部分 , 和碎片 。
and i've got a gift here from a friend of mine's rabbit .	我有個禮物 , 來自一位朋友的老鼠 。
so we're just going to put that in there as well .	所以 , 我們就要把它放進 。
the lifesaver bottle works really simply .	生活saversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversaversa
you just scoop the water up .	你只能把水放掉 。
today i'm going to use a jug just to show you all . let's get a bit of that poo in there .	今天我要用一個跳傘來給大家看 , 我們來看看它 。
that's not dirty enough . let's just stir that up a little bit .	不太好 。 咱們來吧 。
okay , so i'm going to take this really filthy water , and put it in here . do you want a drink yet ?	好吧 , 我會把這個非常漂亮的水放進去 , 你想喝嗎 ?
okay . there we go .	好吧 , 我們去了 。
give it a few pumps . okay ?	舉個例子 , 好嗎 ?
that's all that's necessary .	這是所有必要的 。
now as soon as i pop the teat , sterile drinking water is going to come out .	只要我把水放進去 , 把水放進去 。
i've got to be quick . okay , ready ?	準備好了嗎 ?
there we go . mind the electrics .	我們來看看電力 。
that is safe , sterile drinking water .	很安全 , 喝水 。
there you go chris .	你克里斯 。
what's it taste of ?	是什麼 ?
let's see chris's program throughout the rest of the show . okay ?	咱們來看看克里斯的計畫 。 好嗎 ?
okay . lifesaver bottle is used by thousands of people around the world .	好吧 , 世界各地的人數千人在世界各地 。
it'll last for 6 , 000 liters .	只剩下六千英里 。
and when it's expired , using failsafe technology , the system will shut off , protecting the user .	當它被保護使用者時 , 系統就會停下來 , 保護使用者 。
pop the cartridge out . pop a new one in .	把牌子放進去 , 再次開車 。
it's good for another 6 , 000 liters .	另外有6 , 000個字母 。
so let's look at the applications .	我們來看看應用程式 。
traditionally , in a crisis , what do we do ?	傳統上 , 在危機中 , 我們會怎麼做 ?
then , after a few weeks , we set up camps .	接著 , 幾週後 , 我們設立營運 。
and people are forced to come into the camps to get their safe drinking water .	人們被迫要進入營地 , 來取得安全的飲用水 。
what happens when 20 , 000 people congregate in a camp ?	在20000人會發生什麼事 ?
diseases spread . more resources are required .	疾病散播 , 更多資源需要 。
the problem just becomes selfperpetuating .	問題是自動化 。
but by thinking differently , and shipping these , people can stay put .	但藉由思想不同的 , 人們可以留下去 。
they can make their own sterile drinking water , and start to get on with rebuilding their homes and their lives .	牠們可以製造自己的水源 , 開始重建他們的家園和生活 。
now , it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work .	這並不需要自然災難 。
using the old thinking , of national infrastructure and pipe work , is too expensive .	使用舊的想法 , 國家基礎設施和pipe , 太昂貴了 。
when you run the numbers on a calculator , you run out of noughts .	當你在計算機上計算機時 , 你就會跑出去 。
so here is the " thinking different " bit .	這裡是 「 思考不同 」 。
instead of shipping water , and using manmade processes to do it , let's use mother nature . she's got a fantastic system .	不是把水帶進去 , 使用母親自然 , 用母親大自然 , 她有了很棒的系統 。
she picks the water up from there , desalinates it , for free , transports it over there , and dumps it onto the mountains , rivers , and streams .	她把水帶到山上 , 把水帶進去 , 把水帶到山脈、河流、河流 。
and where do people live ? near water .	誰會住在哪裡 ?
all we've go to do is make it sterile . how do we do that ?	我們要做的是 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , we could use the lifesaver bottle .	嗯 , 我們可以用薩爾瓶 。
or we could use one of these .	或我們可以使用其中一件事 。
the same technology , in a jerry can .	同樣的科技 , 很珍貴 。
this will process 25 , 000 liters of water ; that's good enough for a family of four , for three years .	這就足夠了25 , 000公里的水 , 大約有25 , 000個字母 , 大約有25 , 000個字母 。
and how much does it cost ?	要花多少錢 ?
about half a cent a day to run .	大約一半是一半的時間 。
so , by thinking differently , and processing water at the point of use , mothers and children no longer have to walk four hours a day to collect their water .	所以 , 換思想 , 和孩子們不再需要走四個小時 , 來收集他們的水 。
they can get it from a source nearby .	它們可以從原始的原始碼來源 。
so with just eight billion dollars , we can hit the millennium goal's target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water .	只要八十億美元 , 我們就能達到千萬美金的目標 , 讓人們無法取得安全的飲用水 。
to put that into context , the u . k . government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid .	為了消除美國政府花費大約12億英鎊
but why stop there ?	但為什麼停止呢 ?
with 20 billion dollars , everyone can have access to safe drinking water .	有20億美元 , 每個人都可以取得安全飲用水 。
so the threeandahalf billion people that suffer every year as a result , and the two million kids that die every year , will live .	所以 , 每年有三千五十億個孩子死亡 , 兩百萬名孩童死亡 , 每年都會活 。
paddy ashdown claims that we are living in a moment in history where power is changing in ways it never has before . in a spellbinding talk at tedxbrussels he outlines the three major global shifts that he sees coming .	史上 , tedxbrusselselsselselselsels , 他在歷史上看到了這三種主要的轉變 。
foreign policy , global issues , politics , world cultures	外國政策、全球議題、政治、世界文化 。
paddy ashdown: the global power shift	paddown:全球權力轉變 。
there's a poem written by a very famous english poet at the end of the 19th century .	在19世紀末期 , 詩人寫了一首詩詩
it was said to echo in churchill's brain in the 1930s .	在1930年代的大腦中 ,
and the poem goes: " on the idle hill of summer , lazy with the flow of streams , hark i hear a distant drummer , drumming like a sound in dreams , far and near and low and louder on the roads of earth go by , dear to friend and food to powder , soldiers marching , soon to die . "	詩人會說: 「 在夏天 , 我聽到一個遙遠的聲音 , 很快的飲食 。 」 「 在夏天 , 我聽到一個遙遠的聲音 , 很快的飲食 。 」
those who are interested in poetry , the poem is " a shropshire lad " written by a . e . housman .	對詩人來說 , 詩是 「 詩人 」 , 詩是 「 詩人 」 , 詩是 「 詩人 」 。
but what housman understood , and you hear it in the symphonies of nielsen too , was that the long , hot , silvan summers of stability of the 19th century were coming to a close , and that we were about to move into one of those terrifying periods of history when power changes .	但烏托爾斯•曼明尼爾斯•曼明尼爾斯 , 你聽到這段時間的歷史 , 在19世紀的歷史中 , 你聽到這段時間的歷史 , 很久以前 , 我們就開始了 , 直到我們要去到一個更近的時刻 , 來到我們身邊的機會 , 來到我們身邊 。
and these are always periods , ladies and gentlemen , accompanied by turbulence , and all too often by blood .	通常 , 這些人常常見過血液、女士、女士、女士 。
and my message for you is that i believe we are condemned , if you like , to live at just one of those moments in history when the gimbals upon which the established order of power is beginning to change and the new look of the world , the new powers that exist in the world , are beginning to take form .	而我的信息是 , 我相信我們會被認為 , 正如你所知的 , 世界的新力量 , 正開始改變和世界的新力量 , 正開始改變和新的力量 。
and these are and we see it very clearly today nearly always highly turbulent times , highly difficult times , and all too often very bloody times .	這些是我們現在看到的 , 非常顯然的 , 通常是很顯然的 , 通常都是非常強烈的 。
by the way , it happens about once every century .	順便一提 , 它發生了每一世紀 。
you might argue that the last time it happened and that's what housman felt coming and what churchill felt too was that when power passed from the old nations , the old powers of europe , across the atlantic to the new emerging power of the united states of america the beginning of the american century .	你可能會爭議 , 當權力從古老的國家開始 , 歐洲大西洋的新興起 , 歐洲大西洋 , 歐洲大西洋的新興起 , 歐洲大西洋的新興起 。
and of course , into the vacuum where the tooold european powers used to be were played the two bloody catastrophes of the last century the one in the first part and the one in the second part: the two great world wars .	當然 , 在大戰中 , 二次世界大戰時 , 大戰的大戰 。
mao zedong used to refer to them as the european civil wars , and it's probably a more accurate way of describing them .	馬諾•西里斯對他們來說 , 這可能是比較準確的描述他們 。
well , ladies and gentlemen , we live at one of those times .	各位先生女士 , 我們生活在這個時代 。
but for us , i want to talk about three factors today .	但對我們來說 , 我想談三個因素 。
and the first of these , the first two of these , is about a shift in power .	首先 , 第一件事是關於改變權力 。
and the second is about some new dimension which i want to refer to , which has never quite happened in the way it's happening now .	第二點是關於一些新維度 , 我想要提到的 , 現在它已經發生了 。
but let's talk about the shifts of power that are occurring to the world .	咱們來談談關於權力的轉變 。
and what is happening today is , in one sense , frightening because it's never happened before .	今天發生的事是 , 有一種感覺 , 因為它從未發生過 。
we have seen lateral shifts of power the power of greece passed to rome and the power shifts that occurred during the european civilizations but we are seeing something slightly different .	我們已經看到了一些微妙的改變 , 在歐洲文明的權力轉變 , 但我們看到了一些不同的東西 。
for power is not just moving laterally from nation to nation .	權力不僅僅僅僅是從國內搬到國家 。
it's also moving vertically .	它也動作了 。
what's happening today is that the power that was encased , held to accountability , held to the rule of law , within the institution of the nation state has now migrated in very large measure onto the global stage .	今天的情況是 , 在國際階段 , 國際階段的權力是被強大的 , 以至於全球階段的力量 。
the globalization of power we talk about the globalization of markets , but actually it's the globalization of real power .	我們談到全球化的全球化 , 但實際上是全球化的全球化 。
and where , at the nation state level that power is held to accountability subject to the rule of law , on the international stage it is not .	而在國際階段的情況下 , 國際階段的規則是不夠的 。
the international stage and the global stage where power now resides: the power of the internet , the power of the satellite broadcasters , the power of the money changers this vast moneygoround that circulates now 32 times the amount of money necessary for the trade it's supposed to be there to finance the money changers , if you like , the financial speculators that have brought us all to our knees quite recently , the power of the multinational corporations now developing budgets often bigger than mediumsized countries .	國際舞台和全球階段的力量 , 目前正在發展預算的力量 , 像是金融管理器的力量 , 將我們帶到金融監控器的力量 , 如今 , 國際階段和全球階段的力量 , 大約是302倍的力量 , 如我們所知 , 金融管理器的力量 , 使我們在金融的限制中 , 使我們更大量金融的力量 。
these live in a global space which is largely unregulated , not subject to the rule of law , and in which people may act free of constraint .	這些生活在一個全球空間的空間中 , 沒有任何規律的規則 , 不管是法律的規則 , 不管是法律的規則 , 人們可能會自由的限制 。
now that suits the powerful up to a moment .	現在 , 讓它變得很強大 。
it's always suitable for those who have the most power to operate in spaces without constraint , but the lesson of history is that , sooner or later , unregulated space space not subject to the rule of law becomes populated , not just by the things you wanted international trade , the internet , etc . but also by the things you don't want international criminality , international terrorism .	不需要國際貿易、網際貿易、網際貿易、網際貿易、網際貿易、網際貿易、網際網路等等 , 但 , 不管你想要國際貿易、國際貿易、網路等等 。
the revelation of 9/11 is that even if you are the most powerful nation on earth , nevertheless , those who inhabit that space can attack you even in your most iconic of cities one bright september morning .	9/11事件 , 即使你是最強大的國家 , 甚至是地球上最強大的國家 , 不管你是地球上最強大的城市之一 , 你甚至是在地球上最強大的城市之一 。
it's said that something like 60 percent of the four million dollars that was taken to fund 9/11 actually passed through the institutions of the twin towers which 9/11 destroyed .	大約有60%的9/11摧毀了 , 9/11摧毀了 。
you see , our enemies also use this space the space of mass travel , the internet , satellite broadcasters to be able to get around their poison , which is about destroying our systems and our ways .	你看到 , 我們的敵人也使用這個空間的空間 , 網路 , 衛星廣播 , 我們的敵人也用這個空間的空間 , 來追蹤我們的系統和我們的系統 。
sooner or later , sooner or later , the rule of history is that where power goes governance must follow .	不久之後 , 歷史的規則是權力管理局的規則 。
and if it is therefore the case , as i believe it is , that one of the phenomenon of our time is the globalization of power , then it follows that one of the challenges of our time is to bring governance to the global space .	假如我相信它是全球化的力量 , 那麼它會追蹤我們時代的挑戰之一 , 就是要帶領國際空間 。
and i believe that the decades ahead of us now will be to a greater or lesser extent turbulent the more or less we are able to achieve that aim: to bring governance to the global space .	我相信 , 數十年來 , 我們都能夠達成目標 , 不管我們能達成目標的目標 , 或更少 , 或更少的機會 , 才能達成目標 。
now notice , i'm not talking about government .	注意到 , 我不是談論政府 。
i'm not talking about setting up some global democratic institution .	我不是在討論一些全球民主制度 。
my own view , by the way , ladies and gentlemen , is that this is unlikely to be done by spawning more u . n . institutions .	我自己的看法 , 各位 , 各位先生 , 女士和glemen , 不太可能是這樣 , 不用於美國國制度 。
if we didn't have the u . n . , we'd have to invent it .	如果我們沒有美國國家 , 我們就必須發明它 。
the world needs an international forum .	世界需要國際援助 。
it needs a means by which you can legitimize international action .	它需要一個意義 , 就是你可以合法國際行動 。
but when it comes to governance of the global space , my guess is this won't happen through the creation of more u . n . institutions .	但當它進入國際空間時 , 我猜測並不會發生在世界各地的國際空間中 。
it will actually happen by the powerful coming together and making treatybased systems , treatybased agreements , to govern that global space .	它會被強大的合理化合成 , 以基礎系統、治療基礎系統 , 來治療基礎系統 。
and if you look , you can see them happening , already beginning to emerge .	如果你看 , 你可以看到它們正在發生 , 已經開始出現 。
the world trade organization: treatybased organization , entirely treatybased , and yet , powerful enough to hold even the most powerful , the united states , to account if necessary .	世界貿易組織 , 聯合國 , 聯合國 , 聯合國 , 卻有強大的力量 , 甚至是最強大的 , 不管是誰 。
kyoto: the beginnings of struggling to create a treatybased organization .	kyoto:他們開始試圖創造一個治療基礎組織 。
the g20: we know now that we have to put together an institution which is capable of bringing governance to that financial space for financial speculation .	g20:我們知道現在我們必須把一個機構分配給財務管理 。
and that's what the g20 is , a treatybased institution .	這就是g20的基礎機構 。
now there's a problem there , and we'll come back to it in a minute , which is that if you bring the most powerful together to make the rules in treatybased institutions , to fill that governance space , then what happens to the weak who are left out ?	現在有一個問題 , 我們會回來想想 , 如果你把最強大的規則 , 把最強大的規則放在治療基礎機構上 , 那麼 , 會發生什麼事 ?
and that's a big problem , and we'll return to it in just a second .	這是個大問題 , 我們會再回到它 。
so there's my first message , that if you are to pass through these turbulent times more or less turbulently , then our success in doing that will in large measure depend on our capacity to bring sensible governance to the global space .	所以 , 我的第一條訊息是 , 如果你要通過這些多數量 , 或更少的機會 , 那麼我們就成功了 , 以確保我們的能力 , 來確保我們的能力 , 來確保我們的能力 , 來確保我們的能力 , 來確保我們的能力 。
and watch that beginning to happen .	看看這開始發生 。
my second point is , and i know i don't have to talk to an audience like this about such a thing , but power is not just shifting vertically , it's also shifting horizontally .	我的第二點是 , 我知道我不需要和觀眾談話 , 但權力不只是轉變 , 而是改變 。
you might argue that the story , the history of civilizations , has been civilizations gathered around seas with the first ones around the mediterranean , the more recent ones in the ascendents of western power around the atlantic .	你可能會說故事 , 歷史文明的歷史 , 文明的歷史文明 , 在西方國家的歷史文明中海中海中海中海中海中海中海中海中海岸 , 更近期的西方國家 。
well it seems to me that we're now seeing a fundamental shift of power , broadly speaking , away from nations gathered around the atlantic [seaboard] to the nations gathered around the pacific rim .	似乎我覺得我們現在看到一個基本的轉變 , 讓國家聚集在太平洋的河岸上 。
now that begins with economic power , but that's the way it always begins .	從經濟權力開始 , 但它總是開始 。
you already begin to see the development of foreign policies , the augmentation of military budgets occurring in the other growing powers in the world .	你已經開始看到發展國家的發展能力 , 國政策略 , 將其它成長的國家發展出來 。
i think actually this is not so much a shift from the west to the east ; something different is happening .	我認為事實上這不是從西洋到東部的轉變 , 有些不同發生 。
my guess is , for what it's worth , is that the united states will remain the most powerful nation on earth for the next 10 years , 15 , but the context in which she holds her power has now radically altered ; it has radically changed .	我的猜測是 , 在接下來的十年中 , 美國的國家將會保持最強大的國家 , 但在接下來的十年 , 十年後 , 美國的國家將會保持最強大的國家 。
we are coming out of 50 years , most unusual years , of history in which we have had a totally monopolar world , in which every compass needle for or against has to be referenced by its position to washington a world bestrode by a single colossus .	我們在50年間 , 最不尋常的情況下 , 不論是在哪裡 , 我們都擁有了一台巨大的機制 , 不論是在哪裡 , 不管是哪個國家 , 或對抗的速度 , 都不得不平衡 , 以至於世界上最不尋常的情況 。
but that's not a usual case in history .	但這不是典型的歷史 。
in fact , what's now emerging is the much more normal case of history .	事實上 , 現在 , 正常的情況是歷史上 。
you're beginning to see the emergence of a multipolar world .	你開始看到一個多世界的新興 。
up until now , the united states has been the dominant feature of our world .	直到現在 , 美國已經成為我們世界的特徵 。
they will remain the most powerful nation , but they will be the most powerful nation in an increasingly multipolar world .	他們會保持最強大的國家 , 但他們會成為世界上最強大的國家 。
and you begin to see the alternative centers of power building up in china , of course , though my own guess is that china's ascent to greatness is not smooth .	當然 , 你可以看到中國的中心 , 當然 , 我自己的猜測是中國 , 當然 , 雖然我自己的猜測是中國 , 當然 , 當然 , 雖然我自己的猜測不是平面 。
it's going to be quite grumpy as china begins to democratize her society after liberalizing her economy .	在自由化經濟時 , 民主化的社會自由化了她的經濟 。
but that's a subject of a different discussion .	但這是一個不同的討論 。
you see india , you see brazil .	你看到巴西 。
you see increasingly that the world now looks actually , for us europeans , much more like europe in the 19th century .	看來 , 歐洲人更像歐洲 , 歐洲人在十九世紀的歐洲人越來越多 。
europe in the 19th century: a great british foreign secretary , lord canning , used to describe it as the " european concert of powers . "	在19世紀:一個偉大的英國國王國王國 , 叫做歐洲的 「 歐洲警察 」 。
there was a balance , a fivesided balance .	平衡是平衡的平衡 。
britain always played to the balance .	英國總是在平衡 。
if paris got together with berlin , britain got together with vienna and rome to provide a counterbalance .	如果巴黎和柏林一起合作 , 英國和柏林一起合作 , 聯合國 , 英國人和柏林一起合作 。
now notice , in a period which is dominated by a monopolar world , you have fixed alliances nato , the warsaw pact .	現在 , 注意到 , 在一個巨大的世界中 , 你有解決方案 , 包括 「 警察世界 」 , 你有解決方案 , 包括 「 警察 」 。
a fixed polarity of power means fixed alliances .	權力的力量意味著解決方案 。
but a multiple polarity of power means shifting and changing alliances .	但有多種力量的力量意味著轉變和改變 。
and that's the world we're coming into , in which we will increasingly see that our alliances are not fixed .	這就是我們所在的世界 , 我們會越來越清楚地發現我們的盟友不是解決的 。
canning , the great british foreign secretary once said , " britain has a common interest , but no common allies . "	英國外國人說: 「 英國外國人很常見 , 但沒有共同的利益 。 」
and we will see increasingly that even we in the west will reach out , have to reach out , beyond the cozy circle of the atlantic powers to make alliances with others if we want to get things done in the world .	我們會發現 , 若我們想要在世界各地的大西洋棋盤上 , 我們就會發現 。
note , that when we went into libya , it was not good enough for the west to do it alone ; we had to bring others in .	不 , 我們不夠好 , 不夠好 , 我們必須把他人放進去 。
we had to bring , in this case , the arab league in .	我們必須在這個案例中 , 阿拉伯同事 。
my guess is iraq and afghanistan are the last times when the west has tried to do it themselves , and we haven't succeeded .	我認為伊拉克和阿富汗是伊拉克和阿富汗的最後一次 , 我們沒有成功 。
my guess is that we're reaching the beginning of the end of 400 years i say 400 years because it's the end of the ottoman empire of the hegemony of western power , western institutions and western values .	我的猜是 , 西方國家有四百年來 , 我們就開始了 , 因為它是西方國家的基礎 , 和西方國家的基礎 。
you know , up until now , if the west got its act together , it could propose and dispose in every corner of the world .	你知道 , 直到現在 , 如果西方人都可以在世界各地的角度找到它的聯繫 。
but that's no longer true .	但這不再是真的 。
take the last financial crisis after the second world war .	在第二次世界大戰結束後 ,
the west got together the bretton woods institution , world bank , international monetary fund the problem solved .	西方世界銀行 , 國際銀行 , 國際銀行 , 國際銀行 。
now we have to call in others .	現在我們必須打電話給其他人 。
now we have to create the g20 .	現在我們必須創造出20 。
now we have to reach beyond the cozy circle of our western friends .	現在 , 我們必須超越我們西方朋友的困境 。
let me make a prediction for you , which is probably even more startling .	讓我為你做預測 , 可能更有趣 。
i suspect we are now reaching the end of 400 years when western power was enough .	我懷疑我們現在已經達到了400年 , 當西方權力夠了 。
people say to me , " the chinese , of course , they'll never get themselves involved in peacemaking , multilateral peacemaking around the world . "	人們對我說: 「 中國 , 當然 , 他們永遠不會把自己帶在世界各地 。 」
oh yes ? why not ?	噢 , 是的 , 為什麼不 ?
how many chinese troops are serving under the blue beret , serving under the blue flag , serving under the u . n . command in the world today ?	有多少中國的藍色旗子在藍色的藍色旗下 , 保留在藍色的旗幟上 , 在藍色旗幟上 , 保留在藍色的美國國家 。
how many americans ? 11 .	有多少美國人 ? 11 。
what is the largest naval contingent tackling the issue of somali pirates ?	什麼是最大的敘述馬里斯塔克馬里斯呢 ?
the chinese naval contingent .	中國的文字
of course they are , they are a mercantilist nation .	當然 , 他們是一家餐廳 。
they want to keep the sea lanes open .	他們想要保持海平線 。
increasingly , we are going to have to do business with people with whom we do not share values , but with whom , for the moment , we share common interests .	此刻 , 我們要和我們分享價值的人 , 但我們共同的利益 。
it's a whole new different way of looking at the world that is now emerging .	這是一種全新的不同的角度來看世界 。
and here's the third factor , which is totally different .	這是第三個因素 , 完全不同 。
today in our modern world , because of the internet , because of the kinds of things people have been talking about here , everything is connected to everything .	在現代世界中 , 我們的現代世界 , 因為網路 , 因為網路 , 因為網路 , 因為網路 , 因為人們所說的 , 一切都和一切有關 。
we are now interdependent .	我們現在是獨立的 。
we are now interlocked , as nations , as individuals , in a way which has never been the case before , never been the case before .	我們現在已經被阻擋了 , 像是國家一樣 , 以前從來沒有過過這樣的情況 。
the interrelationship of nations , well it's always existed .	國家的聯繫 , 它總是存在 。
diplomacy is about managing the interrelationship of nations .	外交人是國際關係的國際關係 。
but now we are intimately locked together .	但現在我們非常緊密在一起 。
you get swine flu in mexico , it's a problem for charles de gaulle airport 24 hours later .	你在墨西哥 , 加油機場有24個小時 。
lehman brothers goes down , the whole lot collapses .	lehman兄弟走進 , 整個大崩潰 。
there are fires in the steppes of russia , food riots in africa .	在俄羅斯的火焰中 , 非洲有火焰 。
we are all now deeply , deeply , deeply interconnected .	我們深深深深地深深地深深地深深地連結 。
and what that means is the idea of a nation state acting alone , not connected with others , not working with others , is no longer a viable proposition .	這意味著 , 國家和其他人之間的聯繫 , 而不是與其他人合作 , 而非與其他人聯繫 , 而非與其他人聯繫 , 而非與其他人聯繫 , 而非與其他人合作 。
because the actions of a nation state are neither confined to itself , nor is it sufficient for the nation state itself to control its own territory , because the effects outside the nation state are now beginning to affect what happens inside them .	因為在國內的國家不再是國家的力量 , 因為在國際國家的行動中 , 國家的影響會發生在國內的影響 。
i was a young soldier in the last of the small empire wars of britain .	我是英國的年輕士兵 。
at that time , the defense of my country was about one thing and one thing only: how strong was our army , how strong was our air force , how strong was our navy and how strong were our allies .	那時 , 我的國家有強大的力量 , 強壯的是我們的軍隊 , 強壯的是我們的軍隊 , 強壯的武器 , 我們的軍隊 , 強壯的武器 。
that was when the enemy was outside the walls .	那就是當敵人在牆壁上時 。
now the enemy is inside the walls .	現在的敵人在牆壁上 。
now if i want to talk about the defense of my country , i have to speak to the minister of health because pandemic disease is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of agriculture because food security is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of industry because the fragility of our hitech infrastructure is now a point of attack for our enemies as we see from cyber warfare i have to speak to the minister of home affairs because who has entered my country , who lives in that terraced house in that inner city has a direct effect on what happens in my country as we in london saw in the 7/7 bombings .	如果我想要談談我的國家 , 我必須談到我的國家 , 因為糧食安全是我的國家 , 因為糧食安全是威脅我的國家 , 因為糧食安全和我國內的警察 , 我必須談談我的國防部 , 因為食物安全 , 我必須跟大家談談我們的敵人 , 因為糧食安全感染了我的國家 , 因為糧食安全和我國內的警察 , 我必須談談我們的敵人 , 因為糧食安全感染了我的國家 , 因為糧食安全和我國內的醫療保障 , 我必須說 , 對於我們的敵人來說 , 我們的確保證了我國內的警察 , 我必須說 , 對於我們的敵人來說 , 我們的健康是從網路戰爭中所見到的 。
it's no longer the case that the security of a country is simply a matter for its soldiers and its ministry of defense .	國家的安全並不是一個國家的安全性 , 僅僅僅僅是為了它的安全 , 和國防部的安全 。
it's its capacity to lock together its institutions .	它可以阻止它的機構 。
and this tells you something very important .	這告訴你們一些很重要的事情 。
it tells you that , in fact , our governments , vertically constructed , constructed on the economic model of the industrial revolution vertical hierarchy , specialization of tasks , command structures have got the wrong structures completely .	它告訴各位 , 事實上 , 我們的政府 , 建構在工業革命的經濟模式 , 基本上 , 建構在工業革命上 , 基本上 , 建構了 , 基本上 , 基本上都是錯誤的結構 。
you in business know that the paradigm structure of our time , ladies and gentlemen , is the network .	在商業知識中 , 我們的時代 , 女士和glemen是網路 。
it's your capacity to network that matters , both within your governments and externally .	它是你的政府和外面的能力 。
so here is ashdown's third law .	這是第三個法律 。
by the way , don't ask me about ashdown's first law and second law because i haven't invented those yet ; it always sounds better if there's a third law , doesn't it ?	順便一提 , 別問我 , 別問我 , 不要問我 , 因為我沒有發明 , 但它總是聽起來更好 , 如果有第三個法律 , 不是嗎 ?
ashdown's third law is that in the modern age , where everything is connected to everything , the most important thing about what you can do is what you can do with others .	第三個法律就是在現代時代 , 所有東西都和其他人有關 , 你所能做的是 , 最重要的事 。
the most important bit about your structure whether you're a government , whether you're an army regiment , whether you're a business is your docking points , your interconnectors , your capacity to network with others .	最重要的是你是政府 , 你不管你是政府 , 不管你是政府 , 不管你是政府 , 不管你是政府 , 不管你是政府 , 不管你是政府 , 不管你是政府 , 不管你是誰 。
you understand that in industry ; governments don't .	你知道在工業上 , 政府沒有 。
but now one final thing .	但最後一件事情 。
if it is the case , ladies and gentlemen and it is that we are now locked together in a way that has never been quite the same before , then it's also the case that we share a destiny with each other .	如果是例子 , 女士和女士們 , 我們現在都在這個情況下 , 先前和各位分享 , 先前的例子 , 先生 , 也是我們共同的情況 。
suddenly and for the very first time , collective defense , the thing that has dominated us as the concept of securing our nations , is no longer enough .	突然間 , 最初期的概念是 , 保持我們的國家 , 不再夠了 。
it used to be the case that if my tribe was more powerful than their tribe , i was safe ; if my country was more powerful than their country , i was safe ; my alliance , like nato , was more powerful than their alliance , i was safe .	比他們的國家更強大 , 我是安全的 , 如果我的國家比他們的國家更強大 , 我安全 , 比他們的國家更強大 。
it is no longer the case .	它不再是這樣 。
the advent of the interconnectedness and of the weapons of mass destruction means that , increasingly , i share a destiny with my enemy .	聯合國和敵人之間的聯繫 , 和敵人之間的聯繫 。
when i was a diplomat negotiating the disarmament treaties with the soviet union in geneva in the 1970s , we succeeded because we understood we shared a destiny with them .	在1970年代 , 我們成功了 , 因為我們知道我們和蘇聯結合在一起 , 我們成功了 , 因為我們知道我們和蘇聯結合在一起 。
collective security is not enough .	收集體安全不夠 。
peace has come to northern ireland because both sides realized that the zerosum game couldn't work .	和平對北愛爾蘭因為兩方都意識到 , 因為雙方都無法運作 。
they shared a destiny with their enemies .	他們和敵人的敵人有敵人 。
one of the great barriers to peace in the middle east is that both sides , both israel and , i think , the palestinians , do not understand that they share a collective destiny .	中東地區最好的障礙 , 就是雙方都是雙方 , 和平在中東 , 不了解他們和平的障礙是兩者 。
and so suddenly , ladies and gentlemen , what has been the proposition of visionaries and poets down the ages becomes something we have to take seriously as a matter of public policy .	所以 , 突然間 , 女士和女士們都在公共政策上 , 我們必須認真是公共政策 。
i started with a poem , i'll end with one .	我從首詩開始 , 我終於一首詩 。
the great poem of john donne's .	約翰•唐妮的偉大詩 。
" send not for whom the bell tolls . "	「 寄給誰是酒吧 。 」
the poem is called " no man is an island . "	詩叫 「 沒有人是個島嶼 」
and it goes: " every man's death affected me , for i am involved in mankind , send not to ask for whom the bell tolls , it tolls for thee . "	它會說: 「 每個人死亡都會影響我 。 」 「 人類的死亡都會影響我 。 」
for john donne , a recommendation of morality .	約翰尼 , 道德的建議 。
for us , i think , part of the equation for our survival .	對我們而言 , 我認為 , 是我們生存的一部分
to find the path to long life and health , dan buettner and team study the world's " blue zones , " communities whose elders live with vim and vigor to recordsetting age . at tedxtc , he shares the 9 common diet and lifestyle habits that keep them spry past age 100 .	去年紀年紀年紀念碑 , 以 「 藍色區域 」 和 「 藍色區域 」 的居民住在tedxtc , 他分享了9個共同的飲食和生命生活方式 , 來記錄在tedxttersetner和團隊研究世界的藍色區域 。
biology , culture , exploration , food , health , life , science	生物學、文化、探索、食物、健康、生命 。
dan buettner: how to live to be 100+	丹佛•布雷特:如何活到100+ 。
something called the danish twin study established that only about 10 percent of how long the average person lives , within certain biological limits , is dictated by our genes .	一名叫dnadanetwin研究的證據顯示 , 只有大約10%的壽命 , 在某些生物限制中 , 我們的基因 。
the other 90 percent is dictated by our lifestyle .	其他90%被我們的生活方式 。
so the premise of blue zones: if we can find the optimal lifestyle of longevity we can come up with a de facto formula for longevity .	藍色區塊:如果我們能找到最佳的生活方式 , 我們能找到最佳的生活方式 , 可以找到最佳的生活方式 。
but if you ask the average american what the optimal formula of longevity is , they probably couldn't tell you .	但如果你問一般美國人最樂觀的平均壽命 , 他們可能無法告訴你 。
they've probably heard of the south beach diet , or the atkins diet .	牠們可能聽過南海灘飲食或飲食
you have the usda food pyramid .	你有食物金字塔 。
there is what oprah tells us .	歐巴爾告訴我們 。
there is what doctor oz tells us .	醫生奧茲告訴我們 。
the fact of the matter is there is a lot of confusion around what really helps us live longer better .	重要的是 , 許多困惑可以幫助我們更好的生活 。
should you be running marathons or doing yoga ?	你應該要跑馬拉松或做瑜伽嗎 ?
should you eat organic meats or should you be eating tofu ?	你應該吃牛肉 , 或應該吃肉嗎 ?
when it comes to supplements , should you be taking them ?	到供應 , 你應該要帶他們嗎 ?
how about these hormones or resveratrol ?	這些荷爾蒙或resveratrmons呢 ?
and does purpose play into it ?	目的是要扮演嗎 ?
spirituality ? and how about how we socialize ?	靈性呢 ? 我們如何社會化 ?
well , our approach to finding longevity was to team up with national geographic , and the national institute on aging , to find the four demographically confirmed areas that are geographically defined .	我們的國家地理地理地地理地地理地地理地地理地地理地地理地地理地地理地地理地地理地地理地地理
and then bring a team of experts in there to methodically go through exactly what these people do , to distill down the crosscultural distillation .	然後帶一個團隊專家 , 去了解這些人在哪裡 , 去除非文化歧視 。
and at the end of this i'm going to tell you what that distillation is .	最後 , 我會告訴各位 , 究竟是什麼 。
but first i'd like to debunk some common myths when it comes to longevity .	但首先我想要破壞一些共同的迷思 , 來到長久以來 。
and the first myth is if you try really hard you can live to be 100 .	第一個神話是如果你試著真的很難活到100歲 。
the problem is , only about one out of 5 , 000 people in america live to be 100 .	問題是 , 只有一萬五千人住在美國生活中有五千人 。
your chances are very low .	你的機會非常低 。
even though it's the fastest growing demographic in america , it's hard to reach 100 .	即使這是美國最快的人口統計 , 但很難達到100 。
the problem is that we're not programmed for longevity .	問題是 , 我們沒有計畫長壽 。
we are programmed for something called procreative success .	我們被稱為 「 成功的成功 」 。
i love that word .	我喜歡這個詞 。
it reminds me of my college days .	它提醒我我的大學 。
biologists term procreative success to mean the age where you have children and then another generation , the age when your children have children .	生物學家稱之為 「 年齡 」 , 你的孩子有孩子的年齡 。
after that the effect of evolution completely dissipates .	在演化的過程中 , 演化完全失望 。
if you're a mammal , if you're a rat or an elephant , or a human , in between , it's the same story .	如果你是個哺乳類動物 , 如果你是個哺乳類動物 , 如果你是哺乳類動物 , 如果你是個哺乳類動物 , 如果你是哺乳類動物 。
so to make it to age 100 , you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle , you also have to have won the genetic lottery .	為了要讓這一百人 , 你還不需要有很好的生活方式 , 你也必須有更好的生活方式 , 你也必須有非常好的生活方式 , 你也必須有更好的生活方式 。
the second myth is , there are treatments that can help slow , reverse , or even stop aging .	第二個迷思是 , 有治療可以幫助慢慢、逆轉或甚至停止 。
when you think of it , there is 99 things that can age us .	當你想到它時 , 會有9999個東西可以帶給我們 。
deprive your brain of oxygen for just a few minutes , those brain cells die , they never come back .	幾分鐘的大腦細胞死亡 , 它們永遠不會回來 。
play tennis too hard , on your knees , ruin your cartilage , the cartilage never comes back .	玩樂團在你的膝蓋上 , 你的膝蓋 , 你的膝蓋 , 沒有回來 。
our arteries can clog . our brains can gunk up with plaque , and we can get alzheimer's .	我們的大腦可以把大腦連結起來 , 我們可以得到阿茲海默症 。
there is just too many things to go wrong .	只有太多問題了 。
our bodies have 35 trillion cells , trillion with a " t . " we're talking national debt numbers here .	我們的身體有35兆兆個細胞 , 和 「 t 」 。 我們在討論國家債務 。
those cells turn themselves over once every eight years .	那些細胞每八年就已經超過一次 。
and every time they turn themselves over there is some damage . and that damage builds up .	每當他們把自己丟掉 , 就會造成傷害 。
and it builds up exponentially .	它也建構了數量 。
it's a little bit like the days when we all had beatles albums or eagles albums and we'd make a copy of that on a cassette tape , and let our friends copy that cassette tape , and pretty soon , with successive generations that tape sounds like garbage .	有點像我們花了幾天的時間 , 會讓我們的朋友複製 , 很快地 , 會讓我們的朋友複製 , 很快地 , 會讓我們的朋友複製 , 很快地 , 會讓我們的朋友複製 , 像是 「 聽起來 」 。
well , the same things happen to our cells .	同樣的事情發生在我們的細胞 。
that's why a 65yearold person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12yearold person .	這就是為什麼65歲的人比112歲的速度比12歲的人更快 。
so , if there is nothing you can do to slow your aging or stop your aging , what am i doing here ?	所以 , 如果有沒有什麼可以做些什麼 ? 你還是停止你的衰老 , 我在做什麼 ?
well , the fact of the matter is the best science tells us that the capacity of the human body , my body , your body , is about 90 years , a little bit more for women .	重要的是 , 最好的科學告訴我們 , 對於人類身體而言 , 你的身體 , 大約90年 , 你的身體是最好的 。
but life expectancy in this country is only 78 .	但這國家的壽命只有78 。
so somewhere along the line , we're leaving about 12 good years on the table .	所以 , 在這條線上 , 我們已經留了大約12個好年 。
these are years that we could get .	這些年來我們可以做到 。
and research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease , heart disease , cancer and diabetes .	研究顯示 , 他們會很慢性疾病、心臟病、心臟疾病、心臟病、癌症和糖尿病 。
we think the best way to get these missing years is to look at the cultures around the world that are actually experiencing them , areas where people are living to age 100 at rates up to 10 times greater than we are , areas where the life expectancy is an extra dozen years , the rate of middle age mortality is a fraction of what it is in this country .	我們認為最好的方法就是去看看文化在這個國家中產出的數年 , 數年以來 , 數年以來的人口數量增加了10倍 。
we found our first blue zone about 125 miles off the coast of italy , on the island of sardinia .	我們發現我們的第一條藍色區塊 , 大約125英里 , 在海岸的海岸 。
and not the entire island , the island is about 1 . 4 million people , but only up in the highlands , an area called the nuoro province .	而不是整個島嶼 , 只有1.4萬人 , 但在高地 , 島嶼是大約1.4萬人 。
and here we have this area where men live the longest , about 10 times more centenarians than we have here in america .	這裡我們有這個區域 , 比美國最長的10倍 。
and this is a place where people not only reach age 100 , they do so with extraordinary vigor .	這個地方 , 人們不只能達成百分之十 , 他們做了非常多的特性 。
places where 102 year olds still ride their bike to work , chop wood , and can beat a guy 60 years younger than them .	在那裡 , 有102歲的年輕人 , 比他們更年輕 。
their history actually goes back to about the time of christ .	他們的歷史其實回到了基督的歷史 。
it's actually a bronze age culture that's been isolated .	其實是布朗西的文化 。
because the land is so infertile , they largely are shepherds , which occasions regular , lowintensity physical activity .	因為土地是很大的 , 它們大量是大量的 , 它們大量的地位 , 大量的地位 , 它們大量的 , 大量的 , 大量的身體活動 。
their diet is mostly plantbased , accentuated with foods that they can carry into the fields .	他們的飲食是非常植物的 , 牠們的食物可以帶著食物 。
they came up with an unleavened whole wheat bread called carta musica made out of durum wheat , a type of cheese made from grassfed animals so the cheese is high in omega3 fatty acids instead of omega6 fatty acids from cornfed animals , and a type of wine that has three times the level of polyphenols than any known wine in the world .	牠們來源於 「 香草動物 」 和 「 牛肉 」 的種類 , 像是 「 香草動物 」 和 「 牛肉 」 的種類 , 和 「 牛肉動物 」 一樣 , 有三次大量的葡萄牙 , 和 「 牛肉 」 的 「 大量 」 的味道 , 比任何世界各地的廚師都有三倍 。
but the real secret i think lies more in the way that they organize their society .	但真正的秘密就是他們組織社會的秘密 。
and one of the most salient elements of the sardinian society is how they treat older people .	薩利尼亞社會的其中之一是他們治療老年人 。
you ever notice here in america , social equity seems to peak at about age 24 ?	你注意到在美國 , 社會平等似乎是24歲嗎 ?
just look at the advertisements .	看看廣告 。
here in sardinia , the older you get the more equity you have , the more wisdom you're celebrated for .	在沙尼亞 , 你得到越多的智慧 , 你越多的智慧 , 才能得到更多的智慧 。
you go into the bars in sardinia , instead of seeing the sports illustrated swimsuit calendar , you see the centenarian of the month calendar .	你在薩斯維納州的海岸線上看運動 , 看到了西洋棋的口號 , 不是看過西洋棋的路線 , 你看到了西洋棋的運動 。
this , as it turns out , is not only good for your aging parents to keep them close to the family it imparts about four to six years of extra life expectancy research shows it's also good for the children of those families , who have lower rates of mortality and lower rates of disease .	結果發現 , 不只對你的父母親戚父母保持他們的家庭 , 比例來說 , 比例來說 , 比例來說 , 比較低的家庭 , 大約有四到六年的死亡率 , 和低於死亡率的差異 。
that's called the grandmother effect .	這叫做祖母效果 。
we found our second blue zone on the other side of the planet , about 800 miles south of tokyo , on the archipelago of okinawa .	我們發現我們的第二個藍色區塊 , 大約是八百英里的南雅 , 海岸的邊緣 。
okinawa is actually 161 small islands .	okinawa其實是161個小島 。
and in the northern part of the main island , this is ground zero for world longevity .	在北部地區的北部地區 , 它是陸地的北極洲 。
this is a place where the oldest living female population is found .	這是一個地方 , 最古老的居民族群已經發現了 。
it's a place where people have the longest disabilityfree life expectancy in the world .	人類是世界上最長壽命的壽命 。
they have what we want .	他們有我們想要的
they live a long time , and tend to die in their sleep , very quickly , and often , i can tell you , after sex .	他們活得很快 , 通常 , 我可以告訴你們 , 通常 , 我可以告訴你們 , 通常 , 我可以告訴你們 , 通常 , 我可以告訴你們 。
they live about seven good years longer than the average american .	他們比一般美國人更長壽 。
five times as many centenarians as we have in america .	美國有五倍 。
one fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer , big killers here in america .	美國有十五分之一的乳癌、乳癌和乳癌 。
and one sixth the rate of cardiovascular disease .	心血管疾病的六分之一 。
and the fact that this culture has yielded these numbers suggests strongly they have something to teach us .	這種文化的確有了這些數字 , 讓它能教導我們 。
what do they do ?	他們會怎麼做 ?
once again , a plantbased diet , full of vegetables with lots of color in them .	再一次 , 植物的飲食和許多顏色 。
and they eat about eight times as much tofu as americans do .	他們吃了八倍的美國人 。
more significant than what they eat is how they eat it .	比他們吃的更重要 。
they have all kinds of little strategies to keep from overeating , which , as you know , is a big problem here in america .	他們有各種各式各樣的策略 , 來保持在美國 。
a few of the strategies we observed: they eat off of smaller plates , so they tend to eat fewer calories at every sitting .	我們觀察到最少的策略:它們吃掉少數的策略 , 所以他們會吃少數的策略 , 通常會吃少數的策略 。
instead of serving family style , where you can sort of mindlessly eat as you're talking , they serve at the counter , put the food away , and then bring it to the table .	不是保守家庭風格 , 把食物帶到桌上 , 把食物帶到桌上 。
they also have a 3 , 000yearold adage , which i think is the greatest sort of diet suggestion ever invented .	他們有三千歲的老年人 , 我認為這是最偉大的飲食建議 。
it was invented by confucius .	它被發明了 。
and that diet is known as the hara , hatchi , bu diet .	那個飲食被稱為 「 哈拉 」 、 「 哈拉 」 和 「 哈拉 」 。
it's simply a little saying these people say before their meal to remind them to stop eating when their stomach is [80] percent full .	只是一個簡單的說法 , 只能提醒他們停止吃食物 , 只能提醒他們停止吃三分之八十 。
it takes about a half hour for that full feeling to travel from your belly to your brain .	它花了一半小時的時間從你的腦袋傳送到你的大腦 。
and by remembering to stop at 80 percent it helps keep you from doing that very thing .	記住你要停止80%的幫助 , 讓你們做得很不錯 。
but , like sardinia , okinawa has a few social constructs that we can associate with longevity .	但是 , 像沙尼亞 , okinia , okinia , okinia和長壽的社會建議有關 。
we know that isolation kills .	我們知道暴力殺害 。
fifteen years ago , the average american had three good friends .	五年前 , 平均美國有三個朋友 。
we're down to one and half right now .	我們現在已經降到一半 。
if you were lucky enough to be born in okinawa , you were born into a system where you automatically have a half a dozen friends with whom you travel through life .	如果你很幸運 , 你出生 , 你生進了一個系統 , 你生出生 , 你出生 , 你出生 , 你出生 , 你出生 , 你出生 , 你出生了一半十個朋友 , 你就出生了 。
they call it a moai . and if you're in a moai you're expected to share the bounty if you encounter luck , and if things go bad , child gets sick , parent dies , you always have somebody who has your back .	他們稱它為 「 媽媽 」 , 如果你有了你的回憶 , 你總是有著你的回憶 。
this particular moai , these five ladies have been together for 97 years .	這些五個女士已經開始了97年 。
their average age is 102 .	他們的平均年齡是102歲
typically in america we've divided our adult life up into two sections .	通常在美國 , 我們將成年人的生活分成兩段 。
there is our work life , where we're productive .	我們有生產力 。
and then one day , boom , we retire .	有一天 , 我們退休 。
and typically that has meant retiring to the easy chair , or going down to arizona to play golf .	一般來說 , 通常會把椅子往往亞里薩到亞里桑達 。
in the okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement .	在okinawan的語言中 , 甚至沒有 「 退休 」 。
instead there is one word that imbues your entire life , and that word is " ikigai . "	換句話是 「 英文字 」 。
and , roughly translated , it means " the reason for which you wake up in the morning . "	早上醒來的原因是 「 早上醒來的原因 」
for this 102yearold karate master , his ikigai was carrying forth this martial art .	對這位102歲的凱特•馬斯特 , 他的志工智慧是將它結合起來的 。
for this hundredyearold fisherman it was continuing to catch fish for his family three times a week .	對這個百歲的漁民而言 , 漁民的漁民在一週三次就要捕魚 。
and this is a question . the national institute on aging actually gave us a questionnaire to give these centenarians .	這是個問題 , 美國國家的研究人員也給了我們一個問題 。
and one of the questions , they were very culturally astute , the people who put the questionnaire .	其中一個問題是非常文化的 , 人們會問這個問題 。
one of the questions was , " what is your ikigai ? "	其中一個問題是: 「 你在哪裡 ? 」
they instantly knew why they woke up in the morning .	他們早上就知道為什麼他們在早上 。
for this 102 year old woman , her ikigai was simply her greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	對這個102歲的女士來說 , 她的祖母 , 她的祖母是她的祖母 。
two girls separated in age by 101 and a half years .	兩個女孩分離在101年半年 。
and i asked her what it felt like to hold a greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	我問她 , 有什麼感覺 , 希望她能強烈的感覺 。
and she put her head back and she said , " it feels like leaping into heaven . "	她回頭回頭說: 「 感覺就像爬進天堂 。 」
i thought that was a wonderful thought .	我覺得那是個很棒的思想 。
my editor at geographic wanted me to find america's blue zone .	我在地理的編輯地理想我找到美國的藍色區域 。
and for a while we looked on the prairies of minnesota , where actually there is a very high proportion of centenarians .	為了我們觀察到達尼蘇達的百分之二 , 實際上 , 那裡有非常高的進展 。
but that's because all the young people left .	但那是因為所有年輕人都離開 。
so , we turned to the data again .	所以 , 我們轉變了數據 。
and we found america's longestlived population among the seventhday adventists concentrated in and around loma linda , california .	我們發現美國最長的壽命 , 加州 , 加州 , 加州 , 加州 。
adventists are conservative methodists .	保守主義者是保守派的 。
they celebrate their sabbath from sunset on friday till sunset on saturday .	他們慶祝他們在星期五星期六的天空 。
a " 24hour sanctuary in time , " they call it .	《24小時聖經》 , 他們稱它為 。
and they follow five little habits that conveys to them extraordinary longevity , comparatively speaking .	他們遵循了五個小習慣 , 說話 , 比較不平凡 。
in america here , life expectancy for the average woman is 80 .	在美國 , 平均女性的壽命是80歲 。
but for an adventist woman , their life expectancy is 89 .	但 , 她們的預期壽命是89 。
and the difference is even more pronounced among men , who are expected to live about 11 years longer than their american counterparts .	差不多的情況是 , 那些預期會超過美國人的預期壽命 。
now , this is a study that followed about 70 , 000 people for 30 years .	現在 , 這是一項研究 , 大約有七萬人 , 三十年來 。
sterling study . and i think it supremely illustrates the premise of this blue zone project .	調查研究 , 我覺得這藍色區域的確保證了這個藍色區域 。
this is a heterogeneous community .	這是一個獨立的社區 。
it's white , black , hispanic , asian .	是白人、黑人、伊斯蘭人 。
the only thing that they have in common are a set of very small lifestyle habits that they follow ritualistically for most of their lives .	牠們唯一的共同點是一組非常小的生命 , 通常都是一群非常小的生命 , 牠們通常都是一群非常小的生命 。
they take their diet directly from the bible .	他們把他們的飲食直接從聖經中 。
genesis: chapter one , verse [29] , where god talks about legumes and seeds , and on one more stanza about green plants , ostensibly missing is meat .	基因s:chpter , 上帝談論的是綠色植物 , 上帝談論的是綠色植物 , 上帝談論的是綠色植物 , 不可思議 。
they take this sanctuary in time very serious .	他們把這條時間非常嚴肅 。
for 24 hours every week , no matter how busy they are , how stressed out they are at work , where the kids need to be driven , they stop everything and they focus on their god , their social network , and then , hardwired right in the religion , are nature walks .	每星期24小時 , 他們都停止一切 , 不管他們在哪裡工作 , 他們停下來 , 不管他們是多麼忙碌 , 他們會停止一切 , 他們會停止一切 , 他們停止一切 , 關心在他們的上帝、社交網路 , 不管他們是多麼忙碌 。
and the power of this is not that it's done occasionally , the power is it's done every week for a lifetime .	這不是它的運作方式 , 權力是每週一生都在做 。
none of it's hard . none of it costs money .	沒有錢 , 不需要錢 。
adventists also tend to hang out with other adventists .	倡議員也傾向與其他的援助 。
so , if you go to an adventist's party you don't see people swilling jim beam or rolling a joint .	所以 , 如果你去一個倡議員黨派你不會看到人們在喜愛的黨派 。
instead they're talking about their next nature walk , exchanging recipes , and yes , they pray .	相反地 , 他們祈禱 , 是的 , 他們祈禱 。
but they influence each other in profound and measurable ways .	但他們會影響彼此的影響 , 更深深的影響 。
this is a culture that has yielded ellsworth whareham .	這是一種文化的文化 , 充滿了黃色的價值 。
ellsworth whareham is 97 years old .	伊爾•威爾斯塔是97歲 。
he's a multimillionaire , yet when a contractor wanted 6 , 000 dollars to build a privacy fence , he said , " for that kind of money i'll do it myself . "	他是個多數百萬美元 , 他是多數英鎊 , 他說: 「 這樣我才能建造一個隱私的金錢 , 我會這樣做 。 」
so for the next three days he was out shoveling cement , and hauling poles around .	接下來的三天 , 他穿著穿透鏡頭 , 穿著垃圾 。
and predictably , perhaps , on the fourth day he ended up in the operating room .	可預測的是 , 或許 , 在手術室裡的第四天 。
but not as the guy on the table ; the guy doing openheart surgery .	但不是在旁邊的傢伙 , 打開了手術 。
at 97 he still does 20 openheart surgeries every month .	在97年 , 他仍有20公開的手術 。
ed rawlings , 103 years old now , an active cowboy , starts his morning with a swim .	早上 , 十三歲 , 一隻游泳 , 牠早上醒來 。
and on weekends he likes to put on the boards , throw up rooster tails .	他喜歡把紙板放進板上 , 把板子丟進去 。
her grandson actually lives in the twin cities here .	她的祖母住在那座城市中 。
she starts her day with lifting weights .	她開始了她每天的軟體 。
she rides her bicycle .	她騎腳踏車 。
and then she gets in her rootbeer colored 1994 cadillac seville , and tears down the san bernardino freeway , where she still volunteers for seven different organizations .	然後她還在1994年的阿伯納諾•安德魯斯•蓋爾 , 在那裡 , 她仍自願參與了七個不同的組織 。
i've been on 19 hardcore expeditions .	我已經在19個難以置信了 。
i'm probably the only person you'll ever meet who rode his bicycle across the sahara desert without sunscreen .	我可能只是你見過的人 , 他在薩哈拉沙哈拉沙哈拉沙哈拉沙哈拉沙哈拉沙漠 。
but i'll tell you , there is no adventure more harrowing than riding shotgun with marge deton .	但是我會告訴你們 , 沒有冒險的傷害 , 沒有任何冒險比起飛機的火車 。
" a stranger is a friend i haven't met yet ! " she'd say to me .	「 陌生人是個朋友我還沒見過 , 但她會告訴我 。 」
so , what are the common denominators in these three cultures ?	所以 , 這些三文化的共同點子是什麼 ?
what are the things that they all do ?	他們都做過什麼事 ?
and we managed to boil it down to nine .	然後我們就把它放到9 。
in fact we've done two more blue zone expeditions since this and these common denominators hold true .	事實上 , 我們已經做了兩種藍色區塊 , 而這些常見的偏見 。
and the first one , and i'm about to utter a heresy here , none of them exercise , at least the way we think of exercise .	首先 , 我要注意到這一點 , 不是他們運動 , 至少我們認為練習 。
instead , they set up their lives so that they are constantly nudged into physical activity .	相反地 , 它們會不斷地不斷地進入身體活動 。
these 100yearold okinawan women are getting up and down off the ground , they sit on the floor , 30 or 40 times a day .	這些100歲的男孩 , 她們坐在地上 , 她們坐在地板上 , 她們坐在地上 , 她們坐在地面上 , 每天都坐在地上 。
sardinians live in vertical houses , up and down the stairs .	sardiniansardiniansardiniansardinian住在垂直的樓梯上
every trip to the store , or to church or to a friend's house occasions a walk .	每趟旅程 , 或是教堂或朋友的家店 , 都會走路 。
they don't have any conveniences .	他們沒有任何意見 。
there is not a button to push to do yard work or house work .	沒有一個按鈕 , 去做法律或家工作 。
if they want to mix up a cake , they're doing it by hand .	如果他們想要混合蛋糕 , 他們就這樣做 。
that burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does .	燃燒的卡路里 , 就如同在座的卡路里一樣 。
when they do do intentional physical activity , it's the things they enjoy . they tend to walk , the only proven way to stave off cognitive decline , and they all tend to have a garden .	當他們這麼做時 , 他們都會傾向走路 , 唯一能證明的原因是 , 他們會傾向走進去 , 正面臨界線上 , 正是他們享受的經驗 。
they know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook .	他們知道如何在正確的路上找到他們的生活方式 。
each of these cultures take time to downshift .	這些文化都需要時間轉變 。
the sardinians pray . the seventhday adventists pray .	sardiniansardiniansardiniansardiniansardiniansardiniansardiniansardiniansardiniansardiniansardinians
the okinawans have this ancestor veneration .	okinawan有這個祖先的祖先 。
but when you're in a hurry or stressed out , that triggers something called the inflammatory response , which is associated with everything from alzheimer's disease to cardiovascular disease .	但當你在傷害或壓力時 , 它會引發一種稱為 「 感染性疾病 」 的疾病 。
when you slow down for 15 minutes a day you turn that inflammatory state into a more antiinflammatory state .	當你慢慢在十五分鐘的時間內 , 就會變成更反的狀態 。
they have vocabulary for sense of purpose , ikigai , like the okinawans .	他們有了 「 軟體 」 的詞彙 , 像是 「 okinawa 」 。
you know the two most dangerous years in your life are the year you're born , because of infant mortality , and the year you retire .	你們知道在人生中最危險的一年 , 一年後 , 你每年都會退休 。
these people know their sense of purpose , and they activate in their life , that's worth about seven years of extra life expectancy .	這些人知道他們生命的意義 , 他們活在人生中 , 他們活在他們的人生中 , 花了七年的時間 。
there's no longevity diet .	沒有長壽飲食 。
instead , these people drink a little bit every day , not a hard sell to the american population .	相反地 , 這些人每天都喝了一點一點 , 不是很難賣給美國人 。
they tend to eat a plantbased diet .	他們會吃植物的飲食 。
doesn't mean they don't eat meat , but lots of beans and nuts .	不是說牠們不吃肉 , 而是大豆和甜甜 。
and they have strategies to keep from overeating , little things that nudge them away from the table at the right time .	它們有策略 , 使它們從桌子上升到不穩定 。
and then the foundation of all this is how they connect .	結果就是他們如何連結 。
they put their families first , take care of their children and their aging parents .	他們把他們的孩子和他們的孩子帶著他們的孩子 , 去照顧他們的孩子 。
they all tend to belong to a faithbased community , which is worth between four and 14 extra years of life expectancy if you do it four times a month .	他們都屬於信仰基礎的社群 , 值得4.4倍的壽命 。
and the biggest thing here is they also belong to the right tribe .	最棒的是他們也屬於右邊的部落 。
they were either born into or they proactively surrounded themselves with the right people .	他們不是生出生 , 或他們正處於對人的身邊 。
we know from the framingham studies , that if your three best friends are obese there is a 50 percent better chance that you'll be overweight .	我們知道 , 如果你的三個最好的朋友是肥胖症 , 如果你三個比較好的朋友是肥胖的機率 。
so , if you hang out with unhealthy people , that's going to have a measurable impact over time .	所以 , 如果你從不健康的人身上 , 就會有很大的影響 。
instead , if your friend's idea of recreation is physical activity , bowling , or playing hockey , biking or gardening , if your friends drink a little , but not too much , and they eat right , and they're engaged , and they're trusting and trustworthy , that is going to have the biggest impact over time .	相反的 , 如果你朋友的思想 , 你的信任和信任信任 , 你的朋友的意願是真實的活動 , 但不是太多 , 或花園 , 如果你朋友的思想 , 你的信任和信任 , 你的確保持了 , 不管你是怎樣的 , 他們會對抗 , 很大的影響力 。
diets don't work . no diet in the history of the world has ever worked for more than two percent of the population .	飲食並不是工作 , 不是工作 , 全世界的人口數量超過百分之二的人口 。
exercise programs usually start in january ; they're usually done by october .	運動程式通常是在日年1月中 , 他們通常都在月球上 。
when it comes to longevity there is no short term fix in a pill or anything else .	當它不再短暫時 , 沒有短期的規律 , 或其他東西 。
but when you think about it , your friends are longterm adventures , and therefore , perhaps the most significant thing you can do to add more years to your life , and life to your years . thank you very much .	但當你想想看 , 你的朋友是長期的冒險 , 可能是最重要的事情 , 你就可以花了幾年的時間 , 來做更多年的時間 , 你的生命 , 和你的朋友長期冒險 。 謝謝 。
ink that conducts electricity ; a window that turns from clear to opaque at the flip of a switch ; a jelly that makes music . all this stuff exists , and catarina mota says: it's time to play with it . mota leads us on a tour of surprising and cool new materials , and suggests that the way we'll figure out what they're good for is to experiment , tinker and have fun .	基本上 , 它的確是用它來源頭的 , 來源於它 , 讓它開始玩耍 , 讓它變得很棒 , 我們會發現它們是如何運作的 , 和酷的新材料 , 我們會發現它們是如何運作的 , 和酷的新材料 , 我們會發現它們是如何運作的 , 很棒的 。
creativity , design , technology	創造力、設計、科技 。
catarina mota: play with smart materials	卡塔里娜•莫塔:玩有聰明的材料 。
i have a friend in portugal whose grandfather built a vehicle out of a bicycle and a washing machine so he could transport his family .	我有一位朋友在葡萄牙 , 他可以運送他的家人 , 他可以運送他的家人 。
he did it because he couldn't afford a car , but also because he knew how to build one .	他因爲他知道如何建造一個 。
there was a time when we understood how things worked and how they were made , so we could build and repair them , or at the very least make informed decisions about what to buy .	有時候我們了解到如何運作 , 或 , 我們可以建立和修復它們 , 這樣我們就可以建立和修復它們 , 或至少能建立和修復它們 。
many of these doityourself practices were lost in the second half of the 20th century .	在20世紀中 , 許多這些創業人都失敗了 。
but now , the maker community and the opensource model are bringing this kind of knowledge about how things work and what they're made of back into our lives , and i believe we need to take them to the next level , to the components things are made of .	但現在 , 建築師社群和開放原始碼來源於我們的生活 , 我相信我們需要把這些知識帶進我們的生活中 , 我相信我們需要把這些知識帶進我們的生活中 , 讓它們變成我們的生活 。
for the most part , we still know what traditional materials like paper and textiles are made of and how they are produced .	大部分的部分 , 我們仍然知道傳統材料是如何生產的 。
but now we have these amazing , futuristic composites plastics that change shape , paints that conduct electricity , pigments that change color , fabrics that light up .	但現在我們有了這些驚人的塑膠 , 那些改變形狀的塑膠 , 會改變形狀 , 顏色的塑膠 , 會產生電力 , 顏色 , 製造電力 。
let me show you some examples .	讓我展示一些例子 。
so conductive ink allows us to paint circuits instead of using the traditional printed circuit boards or wires .	用傳統的印刷電路板或電路線 , 不用傳統印刷電路或線線 。
in the case of this little example i'm holding , we used it to create a touch sensor that reacts to my skin by turning on this little light .	在這個例子中 , 我們用它來創造一個感應器 , 用它來產生觸感感應器對我的皮膚產生感應器 。
conductive ink has been used by artists , but recent developments indicate that we will soon be able to use it in laser printers and pens .	專家使用它在雷射印刷和筆上 。
and this is a sheet of acrylic infused with colorless lightdiffusing particles .	這是一顆粒子 , 用顏色光明的粒子來源 。
what this means is that , while regular acrylic only diffuses light around the edges , this one illuminates across the entire surface when i turn on the lights around it .	意思是 , 當一般的光線繞著整個表面時 , 我會把光線轉移到外面 。
two of the known applications for this material include interior design and multitouch systems .	其中兩種的應用程式 , 包括內部的應用程式 , 包括神經系統 。
and thermochromic pigments change color at a given temperature .	氣候變遷會改變顏色 。
so i'm going to place this on a hot plate that is set to a temperature only slightly higher than ambient and you can see what happens .	所以 , 我要把這個放在一個熱點上 , 讓它的溫度更高 , 你可以看到它會發生什麼事 。
so one of the principle applications for this material is , amongst other things , in baby bottles , so it indicates when the contents are cool enough to drink .	這種材料的原則是 , 在嬰兒瓶子裡 , 牠會發現 , 當內容變得很酷的時候 。
so these are just a few of what are commonly known as smart materials .	這些僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅少數人所知的智慧材料 。
in a few years , they will be in many of the objects and technologies we use on a daily basis .	幾年來 , 他們會在日常生活中使用的物品和技術 。
we may not yet have the flying cars science fiction promised us , but we can have walls that change color depending on temperature , keyboards that roll up , and windows that become opaque at the flick of a switch .	我們可能還沒有飛行器 , 但我們可以有牆壁 , 改變顏色依賴於溫度、鍵盤 , 和風扇 , 可以改變顏色 。
so i'm a social scientist by training , so why am i here today talking about smart materials ?	我是一位社會科學家 , 為什麼我今天要談的是智慧材料 ?
well first of all , because i am a maker .	首先 , 因為我是作家 。
i'm curious about how things work and how they are made , but also because i believe we should have a deeper understanding of the components that make up our world , and right now , we don't know enough about these hightech composites our future will be made of .	我很擅長了解它們如何運作 , 但也是因為我相信我們應該有更深的了解 , 來創造我們的世界 , 而現在 , 我們並不知道這些高科技的成果是如何運作的 , 因為我相信我們應該有更深的了解 , 來創造我們未來的成果 。
smart materials are hard to obtain in small quantities .	聰明的材料很難取得小量子 。
there's barely any information available on how to use them , and very little is said about how they are produced .	幾乎沒有任何資訊可以使用它們 , 非常小說它們是如何使用它們 。
so for now , they exist mostly in this realm of trade secrets and patents only universities and corporations have access to .	所以 , 目前 , 大部分都是在貿易秘密和專利的專利中 , 他們就存在於貿易秘密和專利 。
so a little over three years ago , kirsty boyle and i started a project we called open materials .	大約三年前 , 我開始了一個計畫叫做 「 開材 」 。
it's a website where we , and anyone else who wants to join us , share experiments , publish information , encourage others to contribute whenever they can , and aggregate resources such as research papers and tutorials by other makers like ourselves .	這是個網站 , 我們也想加入我們 , 分享實驗 , 發表信息 , 鼓勵其他人想要加入我們 , 分享實驗 , 發表信息 , 分享實驗 , 發表信息 , 鼓勵其他人想要加入我們 , 分享實驗 , 發表信息 , 分享實驗 , 發表信息 , 分享實驗 , 發表信息 , 鼓勵其他人想要加入我們 。
we would like it to become a large , collectively generated database of doityourself information on smart materials .	我們會喜歡它成為大型的資料庫 , 集體在智慧材料中產生資料庫 。
but why should we care how smart materials work and what they are made of ?	但是為什麼我們要照顧聰明材料和它們所組成的 ?
first of all , because we can't shape what we don't understand , and what we don't understand and use ends up shaping us .	首先 , 因為我們無法形塑我們不了解的 , 而我們不了解 , 以及我們不了解的事物 。
the objects we use , the clothes we wear , the houses we live in , all have a profound impact on our behavior , health and quality of life .	我們使用的物品 , 包括我們的生活、健康和品質生活的物品 。
so if we are to live in a world made of smart materials , we should know and understand them .	所以 , 如果我們生活在一個世界聰明的材料中 , 我們應該知道它們 。
secondly , and just as important , innovation has always been fueled by tinkerers .	第二 , 重要的是 , 創新一直都被推動者 。
so many times , amateurs , not experts , have been the inventors and improvers of things ranging from mountain bikes to semiconductors , personal computers , airplanes .	許多時候 , 不專家 , 專家 , 專家 , 不是專家 , 而是從山腳踏車到半導體、個人電腦、飛機 。
the biggest challenge is that material science is complex and requires expensive equipment .	最大的挑戰是 , 材料科學非常複雜 , 需要昂貴的裝置 。
but that's not always the case .	但這不是總是這樣 。
two scientists at university of illinois understood this when they published a paper on a simpler method for making conductive ink .	兩位科學家在艾利諾斯學院發現 , 他們發表了一篇文字 , 用簡單的方法來製造出版 。
jordan bunker , who had had no experience with chemistry until then , read this paper and reproduced the experiment at his maker space using only offtheshelf substances and tools .	jordanbardanbunker , 他沒有任何經驗 , 直到 , 讀這篇論文和工具 。
he used a toaster oven , and he even made his own vortex mixer , based on a tutorial by another scientist/maker .	他用了阿密克斯特的發明 , 他用了阿密克斯特 , 他甚至製造了自己的軟體 , 同時 , 他甚至創造了自己的軟體 , 甚至製造了自己的軟體 。
jordan then published his results online , including all the things he had tried and didn't work , so others could study and reproduce it .	jordan在網路上發表了他的結果 , 包括所有他嘗試過的結果 , 沒有工作 , 所以其他人可以研究和改善它 。
so jordan's main form of innovation was to take an experiment created in a wellequipped lab at the university and recreate it in a garage in chicago using only cheap materials and tools he made himself .	所以jordan的主要創新是要把一個實驗放在芝加哥的實驗室裡 , 讓他自己做一個實驗 。
and now that he published this work , others can pick up where he left and devise even simpler processes and improvements .	現在他出版了這份工作 , 其他人可以選出一個更簡單的過程和改善 。
another example i'd like to mention her project's goal is to highlight the expressive qualities of materials while focusing on the creativity and skills of the builder .	另一個例子我想提到她計畫的目標是要提高高速的創意和技能 。
electronics kits are very powerful in that they teach us how things work , but the constraints inherent in their design influence the way we learn .	電子裝置非常強大 , 他們教導我們如何運作 , 但對他們教導我們如何運作的事物 , 但它的影響方式是如何運作的 。
so hannah's approach , on the other hand , is to formulate a series of techniques for creating unusual objects that free us from predesigned constraints by teaching us about the materials themselves .	另一方面 , 漢娜的作品是建立一個技巧 , 來創造出獨特的技巧 , 來創造出獨特的技巧 , 來創造出不尋常的物品 , 來創造出不尋常的事物 。
so amongst hannah's many impressive experiments , this is one of my favorites .	在漢娜的實驗中 , 這是我最喜歡的實驗之一 。
[ " paper speakers " ] what we're seeing here is just a piece of paper with some copper tape on it connected to an mp3 player and a magnet .	[報紙]我們看到的是一張紙張紙張貼在紙上 , 和磁鐵一樣 。
so based on the research by marcelo coelho from mit , hannah created a series of paper speakers out of a wide range of materials from simple copper tape to conductive fabric and ink .	所以基於來自mit.漢娜創造了一系列的論文 , 漢娜創造了一系列的論文 , 漢娜創造了一系列的論文 , 漢娜創造了一系列的論文 , 漢娜創造了一系列的論文 , 漢娜創造了一系列的論文 。
just like jordan and so many other makers , hannah published her recipes and allows anyone to copy and reproduce them .	像jordan和其他作家一樣 , 漢娜會讓任何人複製 , 讓任何人能複製它 。
but paper electronics is one of the most promising branches of material science in that it allows us to create cheaper and flexible electronics .	但紙電子是其中之一 , 它讓我們能夠創造更便宜且有彈性的電子產品 。
so hannah's artisanal work , and the fact that she shared her findings , opens the doors to a series of new possibilities that are both aesthetically appealing and innovative .	漢娜•阿富汗娜的創作 , 她分享了她的發現 , 開放了新的可能性 , 同時 , 新可能性 , 和創新的可能性 。
so the interesting thing about makers is that we create out of passion and curiosity , and we are not afraid to fail .	有趣的是 , 我們創造出熱情和好奇心 , 我們不會害怕失敗 。
we often tackle problems from unconventional angles , and , in the process , end up discovering alternatives or even better ways to do things .	我們常常處理問題 , 從未預期的角度來看 , 在過程中 , 最終發現了解決方案 , 或更好的方法 。
so the more people experiment with materials , the more researchers are willing to share their research , and manufacturers their knowledge , the better chances we have to create technologies that truly serve us all .	所以 , 更多研究人員願意分享他們的知識 , 更好的機會 , 我們需要創造科技的機會 , 才能分享他們的知識 , 更好的機會 。
so i feel a bit as ted nelson must have when , in the early 1970s , he wrote , " you must understand computers now . "	我感覺到1970年代初期 , 他寫了: 「 你必須要了解電腦 。 」
back then , computers were these large mainframes only scientists cared about , and no one dreamed of even having one at home .	那時 , 電腦是這些大型的主導 , 沒有一個夢想在家裡 。
so it's a little strange that i'm standing here and saying , " you must understand smart materials now . "	所以這有點奇怪 , 我站在這裡說: 「 你必須要了解智慧材料 。 」
just keep in mind that acquiring preemptive knowledge about emerging technologies is the best way to ensure that we have a say in the making of our future .	請記住我們在未來的知識中 , 能確保我們有所謂的知識 。
when we drive , we get into a glass bubble , lock the doors and press the accelerator , relying on our eyes to guide us even though we can only see the few cars ahead of and behind us . but what if cars could share data with each other about their position and velocity , and use predictive models to calculate the safest routes for everyone on the road ? jennifer healey imagines a world without accidents .	當我們開車時 , 我們會看到幾台車輛 , 用預測模式來計算安全的路徑 , 用預測模式來計算安全的路徑 , 用預測模式 , 來計算安全的路徑 , 讓每個人在路邊的路上 , 不意外地 , 不用意外 。
jennifer healey: if cars could talk , accidents might be avoidable	珍妮佛:如果車禍可能會避免 , 可能會避免 。
let's face it: driving is dangerous .	咱們面對:開車是危險的 。
it's one of the things that we don't like to think about , but the fact that religious icons and good luck charms show up on dashboards around the world betrays the fact that we know this to be true .	我們不喜歡去思考這個事實 , 但事實證明我們知道這個事實是真實的 。
car accidents are the leading cause of death in people ages 16 to 19 in the united states leading cause of death and 75 percent of these accidents have nothing to do with drugs or alcohol .	車禍是死於死亡率和75%的死亡率 , 不用藥品或酒吧 。
no one can say for sure , but i remember my first accident .	沒有人可以說 , 但我記得我的第一個意見 。
i was a young driver out on the highway , and the car in front of me , i saw the brake lights go on .	我在高速公路上開車站在高速公路上 , 我看到了車輛 。
i'm like , " okay , all right , this guy is slowing down , i'll slow down too . "	我說: 「 好吧 , 這傢伙慢慢 , 我會慢慢 。 」
i step on the brake .	我踏上腳踏車
but no , this guy isn't slowing down .	但 , 這傢伙並不慢慢 。
this guy is stopping , dead stop , dead stop on the highway .	這傢伙停止死停 , 停止死亡停止 , 停止死亡停止 。
it was just going 65 to zero ?	只有65到0 ?
i slammed on the brakes .	我在布拉克 。
i felt the abs kick in , and the car is still going , and it's not going to stop , and i know it's not going to stop , and the air bag deploys , the car is totaled , and fortunately , no one was hurt .	我知道它不會停止 , 我知道它不會停止 , 我知道它不會停止 , 我知道它不會停止 , 車子會停下來 , 車子會停下來 , 車子會停止 , 空氣袋子都停下來 , 不停地 , 車子會停止 。
but i had no idea that car was stopping , and i think we can do a lot better than that .	但我不知道汽車停止了 , 我認為我們能做得更好 。
i think we can transform the driving experience by letting our cars talk to each other .	我認為我們可以改變駕駛的經驗 , 讓車輛和彼此溝通 。
i just want you to think a little bit about what the experience of driving is like now .	我只是希望你們能想像一下現在的經驗 。
get into your car . close the door . you're in a glass bubble .	走進你的車 , 你在玻璃泡泡 。
you can't really directly sense the world around you .	你無法直接感知世界 。
you're in this extended body .	你在這個極端的身體中 。
you're tasked with navigating it down partiallyseen roadways , in and amongst other metal giants , at superhuman speeds .	你在高速公路的路線上移動 , 並且在超人類的速度下降 。
okay ? and all you have to guide you are your two eyes .	好嗎 ? 你必須指導你的兩個眼睛 。
okay , so that's all you have , eyes that weren't really designed for this task , but then people ask you to do things like , you want to make a lane change , what's the first thing they ask you do ?	好吧 , 這是你所做的第一件事 , 他們問你要做些什麼 , 但你會問你怎麼做 , 不是真的設計這個任務 , 但你會問你怎麼做 ?
take your eyes off the road . that's right .	把你的眼睛放在路上 , 這是正確的 。
stop looking where you're going , turn , check your blind spot , and drive down the road without looking where you're going .	停止看看你正在走路 , 然後開車走路 , 不要在路上走路 。
you and everyone else . this is the safe way to drive .	你和其他人都是安全的 。
why do we do this ? because we have to , we have to make a choice , do i look here or do i look here ?	為什麼我們要這樣做 ? 因為我們必須做出選擇 , 來看看嗎 ?
and usually we do a fantastic job picking and choosing what we attend to on the road .	通常我們會在路上走路 。
but occasionally we miss something .	但偶然我們會錯過一些東西 。
occasionally we sense something wrong or too late .	偶爾 , 我們覺得太遲了 。
in countless accidents , the driver says , " i didn't see it coming . "	無數的意外 , 駕駛者說: 「 我沒看到它 。 」
and i believe that . i believe that .	我相信 , 我相信 。
we can only watch so much .	我們只能看得見 。
but the technology exists now that can help us improve that .	但科技現在可以幫助我們改善它 。
in the future , with cars exchanging data with each other , we will be able to see not just three cars ahead and three cars behind , to the right and left , all at the same time , bird's eye view , we will actually be able to see into those cars .	在未來 , 車輛和車輛相互相同 , 我們會看到三輛車輛 , 車輛和車輛相同 , 我們會看到不只三台車子 , 和左邊 , 我們會看到這些車子 。
we will be able to see the velocity of the car in front of us , to see how fast that guy's going or stopping .	我們可以看到這輛車輛的車輛在我們面前 , 看看速度是多快 , 或停下來 。
if that guy's going down to zero , i'll know .	如果那傢伙會走到零 , 我就會知道 。
and with computation and algorithms and predictive models , we will be able to see the future .	根據計算和預測模式 , 我們將會看到未來 。
you may think that's impossible .	你可能認為這不可能 。
how can you predict the future ? that's really hard .	你如何預測未來 ? 這真的很難 。
actually , no . with cars , it's not impossible .	真的 , 不是不可能的 。
cars are threedimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity .	車子是三維空間的物體 , 可以修復和重視 。
they travel down roads .	他們走路路 。
often they travel on prepublished routes .	通常他們會跑出版的路線 。
it's really not that hard to make reasonable predictions about where a car's going to be in the near future .	難以預測 , 在未來的情況下 , 很難做預測 。
even if , when you're in your car and some motorcyclist comes bshoom ! 85 miles an hour down , lanesplitting i know you've had this experience that guy didn't " just come out of nowhere . "	即使 , 當你在車上 , 車輛和摩托車 , 有85英哩之外 , 我知道你有這樣的經驗 , 說: 「 沒錯 ! 85英哩 ! 」
that guy's been on the road probably for the last half hour .	那傢伙在路上走路大概是大約一半小時 。
right ? i mean , somebody's seen him .	對嗎 ? 我的意思是 , 有人看到他 。
ten , 20 , 30 miles back , someone's seen that guy , and as soon as one car sees that guy and puts him on the map , he's on the map position , velocity , good estimate he'll continue going 85 miles an hour .	10、20、30英里 , 他在地圖上看到那個傢伙 , 把他放在地圖上 , 他在地地地圖上 , 估計他會持續85英哩 。
you'll know , because your car will know , because that other car will have whispered something in his ear , like , " by the way , five minutes , motorcyclist , watch out . "	你知道 , 因為他耳朵會知道 , 因為他耳朵會在耳朵中看到 , 因為他耳朵會說: 「 順便一提 , 五分鐘、摩托車、摩托車 。 」
you can make reasonable predictions about how cars behave .	你可以做出理由預測車輛的預測 。
i mean , they're newtonian objects .	我的意思是 , 他們是新生素 。
that's very nice about them .	這對他們來說很棒 。
so how do we get there ?	那麼 , 我們要如何做到呢 ?
we can start with something as simple as sharing our position data between cars , just sharing gps .	我們可以從一個簡單的數據開始 , 分享我們的車輛 , 分享我們的車輛 。
if i have a gps and a camera in my car , i have a pretty precise idea of where i am and how fast i'm going .	如果我在我的車子裡 , 我有一個非常精準的點子 , 我有非常精準的思考 , 我有非常精準的點子 , 和相機在我的車子裡 , 我有一個非常精準的點子 。
with computer vision , i can estimate where the cars around me are , sort of , and where they're going .	電腦視覺時 , 我估算在哪裡 , 他們會在哪裡 。
and same with the other cars .	和其他汽車一樣 。
they can have a precise idea of where they are , and sort of a vague idea of where the other cars are .	他們可以擁有一個精準的概念 , 和其他車輛的概念一樣 。
what happens if two cars share that data , if they talk to each other ?	如果兩輛車輛分享這些數據 , 他們會怎麼做呢 ?
i can tell you exactly what happens .	我可以告訴你們發生了什麼事 。
professor bob wang and his team have done computer simulations of what happens when fuzzy estimates combine , even in light traffic , when cars just share gps data , and we've moved this research out of the computer simulation and into robot test beds that have the actual sensors that are in cars now on these robots: stereo cameras , gps , and the twodimensional laser range finders that are common in backup systems .	電腦模擬器和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 並且在電腦模擬中發現 , 和他的團隊完成了電腦模擬 , 和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 。
we also attach a discrete shortrange communication radio , and the robots talk to each other .	我們也用了微小的溝通器官溝通 , 機器人和彼此溝通 。
when these robots come at each other , they track each other's position precisely , and they can avoid each other .	當這些機器人彼此互相互相時 , 它們會互相溝通 , 它們可以避免彼此 。
we're now adding more and more robots into the mix , and we encountered some problems .	現在我們處理了一些問題 , 我們會遇到一些問題 。
one of the problems , when you get too much chatter , it's hard to process all the packets , so you have to prioritize , and that's where the predictive model helps you .	其中一個問題是 , 你要處理所有包裝 , 所以你要處理所有包裝 , 所以你要處理這些問題 , 才能幫助你 。
if your robot cars are all tracking the predicted trajectories , you don't pay as much attention to those packets .	如果你的機器人車輛都追蹤預測軌道 , 你不需要注意到這些包裝 。
you prioritize the one guy who seems to be going a little off course .	你把一個人看起來看起來有點不好 。
that guy could be a problem .	那傢伙可能是個問題 。
and you can predict the new trajectory .	你可以預測新的軌跡 。
so you don't only know that he's going off course , you know how .	所以你不只知道他會離開 , 你知道如何 。
and you know which drivers you need to alert to get out of the way .	你知道駕駛的駕駛方式是你需要的 。
and we wanted to do how can we best alert everyone ?	我們想要做我們最好的方法是誰 ?
how can these cars whisper , " you need to get out of the way ? "	這些車輛會說: 「 你需要從哪裡來 ? 」
well , it depends on two things: one , the ability of the car , and second the ability of the driver .	它依賴兩件事:一個 , 車輛的駕駛機率 。
if one guy has a really great car , but they're on their phone or , you know , doing something , they're not probably in the best position to react in an emergency .	如果一個人有很棒的車 , 但他們在手機上 , 或你知道 , 做些什麼 , 他們並不可能在急診室裡做些什麼 。
so we started a separate line of research doing driver state modeling .	所以我們開始了一系列的研究模式 。
and now , using a series of three cameras , we can detect if a driver is looking forward , looking away , looking down , on the phone , or having a cup of coffee .	現在 , 我們可以偵測一下 , 如果駕駛機可以偵測到 , 我們可以偵測到如果駕駛器在手機上 , 或有一杯咖啡 。
we can predict the accident and we can predict who , which cars , are in the best position to move out of the way to calculate the safest route for everyone .	我們可以預測 , 誰 , 車輛是最好的位置 , 來計算安全的路徑 。
fundamentally , these technologies exist today .	基本上 , 這些技術已經存在了 。
i think the biggest problem that we face is our own willingness to share our data .	我認為最大的問題是我們自己願意分享我們的數據 。
i think it's a very disconcerting notion , this idea that our cars will be watching us , talking about us to other cars , that we'll be going down the road in a sea of gossip .	我認為這是一個很不可思議的車輛 , 我們會在車輛上走路 , 我們會在車上走路 。
but i believe it can be done in a way that protects our privacy , just like right now , when i look at your car from the outside , i don't really know about you .	但我相信它可以做到 , 以保護隱私的方式 , 就像現在 , 當我在看你的車外的時候 , 我並不知道你 。
if i look at your license plate number , i don't really know who you are .	如果我去看你的清單 , 我不知道你是誰 。
i believe our cars can talk about us behind our backs .	我相信我們的車可以在我們背後背後 。
and i think it's going to be a great thing .	我認為這將會是個很棒的事情 。
i want you to consider for a moment if you really don't want the distracted teenager behind you to know that you're braking , that you're coming to a dead stop .	我希望你在你面前的青少年 , 如果你真的不希望你能注意到你在你面前的青少年 , 你就來了 。
by sharing our data willingly , we can do what's best for everyone .	藉由分享我們的數據 , 我們就能為每個人做最好的事 。
so let your car gossip about you .	所以 , 咱們來談一下你 。
it's going to make the roads a lot safer .	它會讓路更安全 。
x prize founder peter diamandis talks about how he helped stephen hawking fulfill his dream of going to space by flying together into the upper atmosphere and experiencing weightlessness at zero g .	xprigerpeterdiamandis談論他如何幫助史蒂芬•霍金 , 把他的夢想放入大氣層 , 更加強烈 , 並且將其視為無限的空間 。
business , flight , science , short talk , space , technology , universe	商業、飛行、科技、宇宙 。
peter diamandis on stephen hawking in zero g	peterdiamandis在0.0.0.0.
those of you who know me know how passionate i am about opening the space frontier .	你們認識我認識的人 , 知道我很熱情 , 讓我知道我有多熱情 , 來幫我準備開放空間 。
so when i had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity , it was incredible .	所以當我有機會給世界的專家時 , 很不可思議 。
and i want to tell you that story .	我想要告訴你們這個故事 。
i first met him through the archon x prize for genomics .	我第一次見到他穿過阿克森xpr基因組 。
it's a competition we're holding , the second x prize , for the first team to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days .	這是我們首次的競爭 , 第一組團隊將100個人類基因組排序列出10天 。
we have something called the genome 100 100 individuals we're sequencing as part of that .	我們有一種叫做基因組的一百百個個體 , 我們有了這個基因組 。
craig venter chairs that event .	craigver椅子 。
and i met professor hawking , and he said his dream was to travel into space .	我遇到教授 , 他說他的夢想是走進空間 。
and i said , " i can't take you there , but i can take you into weightlessness into zerog .	我說: 「 我不能帶你去 , 但是我可以帶你到零位 。
and he said , on the spot , " absolutely , yes . "	然後他說: 「 絕對 , 是的 。 」
well , the only way to experience zerog on earth is actually with parabolic flight , weightless flight .	地球上唯一的方法就是使用飛行器和飛行器 。
you take an airplane , you fly over the top , you're weightless for 25 seconds .	你用飛機飛行 , 你飛行 , 直到25秒 。
come back down , you weigh twice as much .	再回來 , 你的重量重量兩倍 。
you do it again and again .	再一次 , 再次做一次 。
you can get eight , 10 minutes of weightlessness how nasa's trained their astronauts for so long .	你可以得到八十分鐘 , 十分鐘的太空總署訓練他們太空總署的訓練 。
we set out to do this .	我們就這樣做 。
it took us 11 years to become operational .	我們花了11年的時間才能成為手術 。
and we announced that we were going to fly stephen hawking .	我們會說 , 我們會飛行 。
we had one government agency and one company aircraft operator say , you're crazy , don't do that , you're going kill the guy .	我們有政府機構和一個公司飛行員說 , 你瘋狂 , 不要這麼做 , 你就瘋狂了 。
and he wanted to go .	他想要去 。
we worked hard to get all the permissions .	我們很難取得所有的承諾 。
and six months later , we sat down at kennedy space center .	六個月後 , 我們坐在肯定的太空中心 。
we had a press conference , we announced our intent to do one zerog parabola , give him 25 seconds of zerog .	我們宣佈了我們的意願 , 讓他25秒 , 讓他25秒 。
and if it went really well , we might do three parabolas .	如果它真的很棒 , 我們可能會做三個癱瘓 。
well , we asked him why he wanted to go up and do this .	我們問他為什麼要去做這件事 。
and what he said , for me , was very moving .	他對我說 , 對我來說 , 是非常移動的 。
he said , " life on earth is at an everincreasing risk of being wiped out by disaster . . .	他說: 「 生活在地球上 , 地球上有害怕被災害 。
i think the human race doesn't have a future if it doesn't go into space .	我認為人類種族沒有未來 , 如果它不會進入空間 。
i therefore want to encourage public interest in space . "	我想鼓勵公眾利益 。 」
we took him out to the kennedy space center , up inside the nasa vehicle , into the back of the zerog airplane .	我們把他送到太空中心 , 進入太空中心 , 太空中心 , 在太空中心 , 太空中心 , 進入太空中心 , 進入太空中心 , 進入太空中心 。
we had about 20 people who made donations we raised $150 , 000 in donations for children's charities who flew with us .	我們有20個捐贈給孩子的慈善家 , 我們有20個捐贈給孩子的慈善家 。
a few tedsters here .	這裡有幾個tedsterster 。
we set up a whole er .	我們設立了一個全部 。
we had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane .	我們有四個急診室醫生和兩個護士 。
we were monitoring his po2 of his blood , his heart rate , his blood pressure .	我們正在監控他的心率 , 他的心率 , 血壓 。
we had everything all set in case of an emergency ; god knows , you don't want to hurt this worldrenowned expert .	我們都在緊急上帝知道 , 你不想傷害這個世界 。
we took off from the shuttle landing facility , where the shuttle takes off and lands .	我們從垃圾桶裡拿掉和土地 。
and my partner byron lichtenberg and i carefully suspended him into zerog .	我的夥伴 , 我的夥伴 , 我很小心地把他放入零 。
once he was there , [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like .	一旦他去了 , 我們就讓他去體重的經驗 。
and after that first parabola , you know , the doc said everything is great . he was smiling , and we said go .	一開始 , 我們說 , 一切都很棒 。 他笑了 , 我們說 , 一切都很棒 。
so we did a second parabola .	所以我們做了第二個矛盾 。
we actually floated an apple in homage to sir isaac newton because professor hawking holds the same chair at cambridge that isaac newton did .	我們其實把一個蘋果帶著一座椅子 , 因為教授會把蘋果帶到同一座椅子上 。
and we did a fourth , and a fifth and a sixth .	我們第第四次 , 第第第四次 , 第第第四次 , 第第第四次 。
and a seventh and an eighth .	第七和八個 。
and this man does not look like a 65yearold wheelchairbound man .	這傢伙並不像65歲的輪椅 。
he was so happy .	他很高興 。
we are living on a precious jewel , and it's during our lifetime that we're moving off this planet .	我們住在一個珍貴的珍珠寶寶 , 在我們生命中 , 我們生活在這個星球上 。
please join us in this epic adventure .	請加入我們 , 請加入我們 。
medical animator david bolinsky presents 3 minutes of stunning animation that show the bustling life inside a cell .	醫療衛生博林skysky3分鐘 , 估計顯示在一個細胞內部長的生命 。
design , entertainment , film , health , medicine , science , technology , visualizations	設計、娛樂、電影、健康、醫學、科學、科技、視覺化 。
david bolinsky animates a cell	davidbolinskyimdbolinsky 。
i'm a medical illustrator , and i come from a slightly different point of view .	我是醫學師 , 我從一個非常不同的觀點來看 。
i've been watching , since i grew up , the expressions of truth and beauty in the arts and truth and beauty in the sciences .	我一直在看 , 我一直在研究 , 因為我長大 , 表達真實和美麗的藝術和美麗 。
and while these are both wonderful things in their own right they both have very wonderful things going for them truth and beauty as ideals that can be looked at by the sciences and by math are almost like the ideal conjoined twins that a scientist would want to date .	雖然這些都是很美妙的事情 , 因為他們對他們的真相和美好事物 , 都是很美好的 , 因為他們對他們有很美好的事物 , 像是理想的理想 , 可以被科學和美好的理想結合在一起 。
these are expressions of truth as awefull things , by meaning they are things you can worship .	這些表達是關於真相的真相 , 意思是 , 他們是你能崇拜的 。
they are ideals that are powerful . they are irreducible .	他們是很有力的 , 它們是很有力的 。
they are unique . they are useful sometimes , often a long time after the fact .	它們是獨特的 , 通常很長一段時間 。
and you can actually roll some of the pictures now , because i don't want to look at me on the screen .	你現在可以拍攝影像 , 因為我不想看看我的螢幕 。
truth and beauty are things that are often opaque to people who are not in the sciences .	真相和美好的事情通常是常常常常常常常常常常常常發生在科學中 。
they are things that describe beauty in a way that is often only accessible if you understand the language and the syntax of the person who studies the subject in which truth and beauty is expressed .	他們是描述真實和美麗的詞彙 , 通常只能讓你了解語言和美麗的事物 。
if you look at the math , e=mc squared , if you look at the cosmological constant , where there's an anthropic ideal , where you see that life had to evolve from the numbers that describe the universe these are things that are really difficult to understand .	如果你仔細觀察宇宙的宇宙 , 你看到的宇宙是非常難以理解的 。
and what i've tried to do since i had my training as a medical illustrator since i was taught animation by my father , who was a sculptor and my visual mentor i wanted to figure out a way to help people understand truth and beauty in the biological sciences by using animation , by using pictures , by telling stories so that the things that are not necessarily evident to people can be brought forth , and can be taught , and can be understood .	然後我被教導 , 被教導師 , 我的視覺指導師 , 我想要找出一個方法來幫助人們了解真相和美麗的生物科學 , 用圖像 , 來幫助人們了解真相 , 和視覺的證據 , 來幫助人們了解真相 , 和視覺的證據 , 來幫助人們了解真相 , 和視覺的證據 , 來幫助大家了解真相 , 和視覺的證據 , 來幫助大家了解真相 , 和美麗的生物科學 , 來幫助人們了解真相 , 和視覺的證據 。
students today are often immersed in an environment where what they learn is subjects that have truth and beauty embedded in them , but the way they're taught is compartmentalized and it's drawn down to the point where the truth and beauty are not always evident .	學生們常常在環境中被教導 , 但他們學到的是 , 他們學到的事物是相反的 , 但他們學到的是被教導的 , 但他們學到的不是總是證據 。
it's almost like that old recipe for chicken soup where you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone .	幾乎就像那個古老的古老餅乾 , 把雞湯帶進香味 , 直到你喝雞雞湯 。
we don't want to do that to our students .	我們不想為我們的學生做這件事 。
so we have an opportunity to really open up education .	所以我們有機會可以真正開放教育 。
and i had a telephone call from robert lue at harvard , in the molecular and cellular biology department , a couple of years ago . he asked me if my team and i would be interested and willing to really change how medical and scientific education is done at harvard .	我在哈佛大學在哈佛大學 , 幾年前 , 他問我 , 如果我的團隊和我有興趣 , 他會問我 , 如果我的團隊 , 我很有興趣 , 希望我能夠改變醫學和細胞生物學院 。 他問我 , 如果我的團隊 , 我很有興趣 , 希望我能夠改變醫學和細胞生物學院 。
so we embarked on a project that would explore the cell that would explore the truth and beauty inherent in molecular and cellular biology so that students could understand a larger picture that they could hang all of these facts on .	所以我們開始探索一個專案 , 來探索真相和細胞的生物學 , 讓學生可以理解更大的圖片 , 來探索這些事實的真相 。
they could have a mental image of the cell as a large , bustling , hugely complicated city that's occupied by micromachines .	牠們可以擁有一個大型、複雜的城市 , 大型、複雜的城市 。
and these micromachines really are at the heart of life .	這些微小的心臟是生命的心臟
these micromachines , which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over , are selfdirected , powerful , precise , accurate devices that are made out of strings of amino acids .	這些微小的儀器 , 都是自動、有力、精確的 , 那些微型的儀器 , 都是自動化的 , 那些微型的儀器 , 都是自動化的 。
and these micromachines power how a cell moves .	這些微型的細胞移動 。
they power how a cell replicates . they power our hearts .	它們能強調我們的心臟 。
they power our minds .	他們力量我們的心靈 。
and so what we wanted to do was to figure out how we could make this story into an animation that would be the centerpiece of biovisions at harvard , which is a website that harvard has for its molecular and cellular biology students that will in addition to all the textual information , in addition to all the didactic stuff put everything together visually , so that these students would have an internalized view of what a cell really is in all of its truth and beauty , and be able to study with this view in mind , so that their imaginations would be sparked , so that their passions would be sparked and so that they would be able to go on and use these visions in their head to make new discoveries and to be able to find out , really , how life works .	所以我們想要做的是 , 我們想要做的是 , 我們想要做的是 , 我們想要做的是 , 我們想要做的是 , 我們想要做的是 , 來研究這個觀點 , 這些學生們可以在哈佛大學的研究 , 把這些視覺應用在他們的熱情上 , 讓這些學生能夠在頭上找到 , 讓這些學生可以在哈佛的空間中 , 來研究這個觀點 , 所以 , 這些學生會非常有興趣 , 讓它們能夠在頭上找到 , 讓它們的生命運作 。
so we set out by looking at how these molecules are put together .	所以我們把這些分子聚在一起 。
we worked with a theme , which is , you've got macrophages that are streaming down a capillary , and they're touching the surface of the capillary wall , and they're picking up information from cells that are on the capillary wall , and they are given this information that there's an inflammation somewhere outside , where they can't see and sense .	我們用了這些資訊 , 它們是從細胞內部長到的細胞 , 它們會看到和感知 , 它們會從細胞內部流動 , 它們會看到和感知 。
but they get the information that causes them to stop , causes them to internalize that they need to make all of the various parts that will cause them to change their shape , and try to get out of this capillary and find out what's going on .	但他們會因此改變他們的形狀 , 試圖找出這些資訊 , 讓它們能夠改變形狀 , 試圖找出它會造成什麼樣子 。
so these molecular motors we had to work with the harvard scientists and databank models of the atomically accurate molecules and figure out how they moved , and figure out what they did .	所以這些分子分子分子分子動機 , 我們必須與哈佛科學家與哈佛科學家合作 , 了解它們如何運作 , 並找出它們如何運作 。
and figure out how to do this in a way that was truthful in that it imparted what was going on , but not so truthful that the compact crowding in a cell would prevent the vista from happening .	要知道如何做到這一點 , 但不太相同 , 在一個細胞內 , 會預防病毒發生的狀況 。
and so what i'm going to show you is a threeminute reader's digest version of the first aspect of this film that we produced . it's an ongoing project that's going to go another four or five years .	接下來我要展示給你們看的第一部影片 , 是我們生產的第一部電影 , 這部影片是三分鐘的第一面 , 我們所生產的 , 這部電影是三分鐘的第一面 。
and i want you to look at this and see the paths that the cell manufactures these little walking machines , they're called kinesins that take these huge loads that would challenge an ant in relative size .	我希望你們看看這些小行機的路徑 , 它們叫做kinesins , 它們叫做kinesins , 這些小行機的路徑 , 它們叫做kinesins , 它們叫做kinesins , 這些小行星的路徑 , 它們叫做kinesins , 它們叫做kinesins 。
run the movie , please .	拍攝電影 , 請
but these machines that power the inside of the cells are really quite amazing , and they really are the basis of all life because all of these machines interact with each other .	但這些機器互相交互作用 , 它們真的很神奇 , 它們真的是非常神奇的 , 因為這些機器互相互相作用 。
they pass information to each other .	他們互相傳遞資訊 。
they cause different things to happen inside the cell .	它們會造成不同的事發生在細胞內部 。
and the cell will actually manufacture the parts that it needs on the fly , from information that's brought from the nucleus by molecules that read the genes .	細胞會真正製造這些細胞 , 將它們從核子的分子傳遞到基因中 。
no life , from the smallest life to everybody here , would be possible without these little micromachines .	沒有生命 , 從最小的生命中 , 從小小的生命中 , 都有可能沒有 。
in fact , it would really , in the absence of these machines , have made the attendance here , chris , really quite sparse .	事實上 , 在這些機器的機器中 , 真的是很棒的 。
this is the fedex delivery guy of the cell .	這是細胞的核心 。
this little guy is called the kinesin , and he pulls a sack that's full of brand new manufactured proteins to wherever it's needed in the cell whether it's to a membrane , whether it's to an organelle , whether it's to build something or repair something .	這個小傢伙叫做 「 kinesin 」 , 它需要在細胞內製造出一種東西 , 或修復它 。
and each of us has about 100 , 000 of these things running around , right now , inside each one of your 100 trillion cells .	我們每個人都有大約十萬個這些東西 , 目前 , 在你的100000000000萬個細胞中 。
so no matter how lazy you feel , you're not really intrinsically doing nothing .	所以 , 不管你覺得多麼懶惰 , 你並不真的在做些什麼 。
so what i want you to do when you go home is think about this , and think about how powerful our cells are .	所以 , 我希望你們回到家裡 , 想想我們的細胞是多麼的 。
and think about some of the things that we're learning about cellular mechanics .	想想我們在學習細胞機械的過程 。
once we figure out all that's going on and believe me , we know almost a percent of what's going on once we figure out what's going on , we're really going to be able to have a lot of control over what we do with our health , with what we do with future generations , and how long we're going to live .	一旦我們發現了什麼事 , 我們就會有多久的時間 , 我們將會有多長的時間 , 我們將會有許多控制 , 並且相信我 , 我們將會有多久以來 , 我們將會有多長的時間 , 才能控制我們的健康和我們的健康 。
and hopefully we'll be able to use this to discover more truth , and more beauty .	希望我們能用這個發現更美好的真相 。
but it's really quite amazing that these cells , these micromachines , are aware enough of what the cell needs that they do their bidding .	但這些細胞非常奇妙 , 這些細胞需要的細胞需要它們的細胞 。
they work together . they make the cell do what it needs to do .	他們一起工作 , 他們一起合作 , 讓細胞做得不錯 。
and their working together helps our bodies huge entities that they will never see function properly .	他們的努力幫助我們身體的大量 , 它們從來不會看到功能性 。
enjoy the rest of the show . thank you .	享受其他的展示 。 謝謝 。
becky blanton planned to live in her van for a year and see the country , but when depression set in and her freelance job ended , her camping trip turned into homelessness . in this intimate talk , she describes her experience of becoming one of america's working homeless .	凱莉•布朗頓計畫在她身邊的經驗中 , 把她帶到家鄉 , 但當憂鬱和她的自由法案結束時 , 她描述她身邊的經驗 , 讓她成為美國人的家鄉 。
adventure , happiness , life , personal growth , poverty , social change , society , storytelling	冒險、快樂、生活、生活、生活、生活、個人成長、貧窮、社交變遷、社會變遷、社會變革 。
becky blanton: the year i was homeless	貝克:那年我無家可歸 。
i'm a writer and a journalist , and i'm also an insanely curious person , so in 22 years as a journalist , i've learned how to do a lot of new things .	我是個作家和記者 , 我也很奇怪 , 有2222年的記者 , 我知道如何做很多新事 。
and three years ago , one of the things i learned how to do was to become invisible .	三年前 , 我學到如何成為可見的事物 。
i became one of the working homeless .	我成為一個無家可歸的人 。
i quit my job as a newspaper editor after my father died in february of that same year , and decided to travel .	我辭掉了我的職位 , 決定去旅行 。
his death hit me pretty hard .	他的死亡非常困難 。
and there were a lot of things that i wanted to feel and deal with while i was doing that .	有許多我在做的事時 , 我想要感覺和處理 。
i've camped my whole life . and i decided that living in a van for a year to do this would be like one long camping trip .	我花了一輩子 , 我決定生活在一個長期營運營裡 。
so i packed my cat , my rottweiler and my camping gear into a 1975 chevy van , and drove off into the sunset , having fully failed to realize three critical things .	我帶著我的貓、我的貓、我的貓、我的貓、我的貓、我的貓 , 我在2075年的天花板上 , 把我的貓 , 帶著我的貓 , 把我的貓 , 直到1975年 , 直到1975年 , 完全失敗了 。
one: that society equates living in a permanent structure , even a shack , with having value as a person .	第一:這個社會平均生活在一個永恆的結構中 , 甚至有價值的價值 。
two: i failed to realize how quickly the negative perceptions of other people can impact our reality , if we let it .	第二:我失敗了 , 如果我們讓他人能影響我們的現實 , 就會影響我們的現實 。
three: i failed to realize that homelessness is an attitude , not a lifestyle .	第三:我失敗了 , 無家可歸是一種態度 , 不是生活方式 。
at first , living in the van was great .	首先 , 生活在溫度很棒 。
i showered in campgrounds . i ate out regularly .	我在營地的營地 , 我發現了 。
and i had time to relax and to grieve .	我花了時間放鬆和悲傷 。
but then the anger and the depression about my father's death set in .	但 , 憤怒和憂鬱症是我父親的死亡 。
my freelance job ended . and i had to get a fulltime job to pay the bills .	我的自由法律工作 , 我必須得到一整份的工作 , 才能付出帳戶 。
what had been a really mild spring turned into a miserably hot summer .	一個非常熱夏天的夏天 。
and it became impossible to park anywhere without being very obvious that i had a cat and a dog with me , and it was really hot .	不可能公園任何地方都不太清楚 , 我有一隻貓和狗 , 我有一隻貓和狗 , 很顯然 , 我有一隻貓和狗 , 很明顯 。
the cat came and went through an open window in the van .	貓走過一座窗戶的窗戶 ,
the doggy went into doggy day care .	狗狗走進去狗狗 。
whenever i could , i used employee showers in office buildings and truck stops .	只要我可以 , 我用員工在辦公室建築和卡車停下來 。
or i washed up in public rest rooms .	或我在公共房間裡 。
nighttime temperatures in the van rarely dropped below 80 degrees fahrenheit , making it difficult or impossible to sleep .	夜晚的溫室氣溫升高達80度 , 很難或不可能睡覺 。
food rotted in the heat .	食物在熱情上 。
ice in my ice chest melted within hours , and it was pretty miserable .	我冰雪在幾小時內融化 , 它很可怕 。
i couldn't afford to find an apartment , or couldn't afford an apartment that would allow me to have the rottweiler and the cat .	我無法負擔公寓 , 或無法負擔得起公寓 , 來找公寓 , 去找公寓 。
and i refused to give them up , so i stayed in the van .	我拒絕給他們 , 所以我留在那邊 。
and when the heat made me too sick to walk the 50 feet to the public restroom outside my van at night , i used a bucket and a trash bag as a toilet .	當我在晚上走進50英呎的公共公共空間時 , 我用了一公公公公公公共公共空間 , 我用了一座公共公共公共房間 , 來到公共房間的公共房間 。
when winter weather set in , the temperatures dropped below freezing . and they stayed there .	當冬天氣候變遷時 , 溫度會降低 , 溫度會降低 。
and i faced a whole new set of challenges .	我面對了一個全新的挑戰 。
i parked a different place every night so i would avoid being noticed and hassled by the police .	每天晚上我會避免被警察攔下來 。
i didn't always succeed .	我並不總是成功 。
but i felt out of control of my life .	但我覺得自己生活的力量 。
and i don't know when or how it happened , but the speed at which i went from being a talented writer and journalist to being a homeless woman , living in a van , took my breath away .	我不知道何時發生了什麼事 , 我不知道當作家和記者時 , 我不知道如何發生 , 我也不認識 , 直到我回到家鄉 , 和記者 , 和記者 , 住在一個無家可歸的家鄉 , 和記者 。
i hadn't changed . my i . q . hadn't dropped .	我沒有改變 。 我的天氣 , 沒錯 。
my talent , my integrity , my values , everything about me remained the same .	我的財富、我的價值觀、我的價值觀 , 和我的價值都一樣 。
but i had changed somehow .	但我已經改變了 。
i spiraled deeper and deeper into a depression .	我深深深入深深的深入 。
and eventually someone referred me to a homeless health clinic .	最後有人會帶我到無家可歸的醫療診所 。
and i went . i hadn't bathed in three days .	我去了 , 我沒有在三天內完成 。
i was as smelly and as depressed as anyone in line .	我很像任何人都一樣 。
i just wasn't drunk or high .	我只是不開心或高 。
and when several of the homeless men realized that , including a former university professor , they said , " you aren't homeless . why are you really here ? "	當幾位無家可歸的教授 , 他們說: 「 你不是無家可歸的 。 」
other homeless people didn't see me as homeless , but i did .	其他無家無家無家可歸的人 , 但我做了 。
then the professor listened to my story and he said , " you have a job . you have hope .	接著教授聽過我的故事 , 他說: 「 你有希望 。
the real homeless don't have hope . "	沒有希望 。 」
a reaction to the medication the clinic gave me for my depression left me suicidal . and i remember thinking , " if i killed myself , no one would notice . "	對醫學的反應 , 我記得在想: 「 如果我殺了自己 , 沒有人會注意到 。 」
a friend told me , shortly after that , that she had heard that tim russert , a nationally renowned journalist , had been talking about me on national t . v .	朋友告訴我 , 她聽說過 , 在那之後 , 她聽到了 , 關於美國國家的電視劇院 , 她聽過 , 很短的 , 她聽過了 , 關於美國國家的新聞報導 。
an essay i'd written about my father , the year before he died , was in tim's new book .	我寫了我父親 , 在他死前的一篇文章 , 在他死後 , 他就在他死了 。
and he was doing the talk show circuit . and he was talking about my writing .	他在講述我的寫作 。
and when i realized that tim russert , former moderator of " meet the press , " was talking about my writing , while i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , i started laughing .	當我意識到 「 公園公園 」 的文字時 , 我開始笑聲 。
i started laughing because it got to the point where , was i a writer , or was i a homeless woman ?	我開始笑聲 , 因為它在我身邊 , 還是我是個作家 , 或我是個作家 ?
so i went in the bookstore . and i found tim's book .	所以我去了書店 , 我找到了聖書 。
and i stood there . and i reread my essay .	我站在那裡 , 去了我 。
because i was a writer .	因為我是作家 。
i was a writer .	我是個作家 。
shortly after that i moved back to tennessee .	短短之後 , 我搬回去 。
i alternated between living in a van and couch surfing with friends .	我在一間孤立和朋友之間的關係 。
and i started writing again .	我開始寫作 。
by the summer of the following year i was a working journalist .	今年夏天 , 我是個工作記者 。
i was winning awards . i was living in my own apartment .	我在我自己的公寓裡 。
i was no longer homeless .	我不再無家可歸 。
and i was no longer invisible .	我不再看不見 。
thousands of people work full and parttime jobs , and live in their cars .	數以千計的人工作 , 生活在他們的車裡 。
but society continues to stigmatize and criminalize living in your vehicle or on the streets .	但社會仍在你踏車或街道上 。
so the homeless , the working homeless , primarily remain invisible .	所以無家可歸、無家可歸、無家可歸 。
but if you ever meet one , engage them , encourage them , and offer them hope .	但如果你有機會 , 鼓勵他們 , 鼓勵他們 , 鼓勵他們 , 鼓勵他們 , 鼓勵他們 , 鼓勵他們 。
the human spirit can overcome anything if it has hope .	人類的精神能克服任何東西如果它有希望
and i'm not here to be the poster girl for the homeless .	我不是在這裡要成為無家可歸的女孩 。
i'm not here to encourage you to give money to the next panhandler you meet .	我不是要鼓勵你去鼓勵你去鼓勵你去鼓勵你去鼓勵你去 。
but i am here to tell you that , based on my experience , people are not where they live , where they sleep , or what their life situation is at any given time .	但我在這裡要告訴各位 , 基於我的經驗 , 人們不是他們生活在哪裡 , 或他們生活在哪裡 , 或他們生活在哪裡 。
three years ago i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , and today i'm speaking at ted .	三年前 , 我住在一個沃爾瑪市公園 , 今天我在ted演講 。
hope always , always finds a way . thank you .	希望總是找到一種方式 。 謝謝 。
at tedxchange , thailand's " mr . condom , " mechai viravaidya , walks us through the country's bold plan to raise its standard of living , starting in the 1970s . first step: population control . and that means a lot of frank , funny and very effective talk about condoms .	tedxchange , 從1970年代開始 , 史蒂芬尼•阿拉瓦達 , 也就是說: 「 史蒂芬尼亞 」 , 「 史蒂芬尼亞 」 , 開始在1970年代初步 。
culture , global issues , health , population , science	文化、全球性的議題、健康、人口 。
mechai viravaidya: how mr . condom made thailand a better place	美麗亞:mr , 保險套更好 。
now , when i was a young man 40 years ago , the country was very , very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty .	現在 , 當我是個年輕人40年前 , 國家非常非常貧窮 , 非常貧困 。
we decided to do something about it , but we didn't begin with a welfare program or a poverty reduction program .	我們決定要做一些事情 , 但我們不開始使用一個貧窮的計畫或貧窮的計畫 。
but we began with a familyplanning program , following a very successful maternal child health activity , sets of activities .	但我們從一個家庭平方計畫開始 , 以一個家庭規劃 , 來追蹤一個非常成功的童童健康活動 。
so basically , no one would accept family planning if their children didn't survive .	基本上 , 沒有人會接受家庭計畫 , 如果孩子沒有人願意接受家庭計劃 。
so the first step: get to the children , get to the mothers , and then follow up with family planning .	第一步是 , 讓孩子們 , 然後跟家庭規劃 。
not just child mortality alone , you need also family planning .	不單單單單單單單單 , 你也需要家庭規劃 。
now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it .	現在讓我帶你們回到我們需要做的事 。
in my country , that was the case in 1974 .	在我的國家 , 這是1974年的案例
seven children per family tremendous growth at 3 . 3 percent .	7個孩子的家庭成長率是3.3% 。
there was just no future .	沒有未來 。
we needed to reduce the population growth rate .	我們需要減少人口成長率 。
so we said , " let's do it . "	所以我們說: 「 咱們來做 。 」
the women said , " we agree . we'll use pills , but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills , " and we had very , very few doctors .	婦女說: 「 我們同意 , 但我們需要醫生 , 我們會用藥丸 , 但是我們需要醫生 , 來看看醫生 。
we didn't take no as an answer ; we took no as a question .	我們沒辦法回答 ; 我們不用任何問題來回答 。
we went to the nurses and the midwives , who were also women , and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill .	我們去了護士和女士 , 同時也做了一個很棒的工作 , 來解釋如何使用藥品 。
that was wonderful , but it covered only 20 percent of the country .	這很棒 , 但它只佔了20%的國家 。
what do we do for the other 80 percent leave them alone and say , " well , they're not medical personnel . "	我們對其他百分之八十的人說: 「 嗯 , 他們不是醫學人 。 」
no , we decided to do a bit more .	不 , 我們決定要做更多 。
so we went to the ordinary people that you saw .	所以 , 我們去了普通人 , 你看到的 。
actually , below that yellow sign i wish they hadn't wiped that , because there was " cocacola " there .	事實上 , 我希望他們沒有看到這隻黃色的標誌 , 因為有 「 cocacocacocacoca 」 。
we were so much bigger than cocacola in those days .	我們比古柯鹼還要大 。
and no difference , the people they chose were the people we chose .	沒有差異 , 他們選擇的是我們選擇的 。
they were wellknown in the community , they knew that customers were always right , and they were terrific , and they practiced their family planning themselves .	他們都知道 , 客戶通常是對他們的家庭規劃 , 他們知道客戶是對的 , 他們知道客戶是對的 , 他們知道客戶是對他們的家庭計劃 。
so they could supply pills and condoms throughout the country , in every village of the country .	所以他們可以供應管道和保險 , 在國家各地 。
so there we are . we went to the people who were seen as the cause of the problem to be the solution .	所以 , 我們去了那些被視為解決方案的人 。
wherever there were people and you can see boats with the women , selling things here's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives wherever you find people , you'll find contraceptives in thailand .	在那裡 , 你會發現那些人 , 你會發現在泰國各地的垃圾桶 , 還有避孕 , 你會發現你在哪裡看到的 。
and then we decided , why not get to religion because in the philippines , the catholic church was pretty strong , and thai people were buddhist .	接著 , 我們決定 , 原因是佛教教堂的教堂 , 因為在巴黎的教堂中 , 神聖的人是佛教教堂 。
we went to them and they said , " look , could you help us ? "	我們去了他們 , 他們說: 「 看 , 你能幫我們嗎 ? 」
i'm there the one in blue , not the yellow holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to sprinkle holy water on pills and condoms for the sanctity of the family .	我是藍色的 , 不是黃色的水 , 一個藍色的水源 , 和保持家庭的水源 。
and this picture was sent throughout the country .	這張照片是全國各地 。
so some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves .	村莊裡的一些人都做同樣的事 。
and the women were saying , " no wonder we have no sideeffects .	婦女說: 「 我們沒有人心 。
it's been blessed . "	它是無聊的 。 」
that was their perception .	這是他們的感知 。
and then we went to teachers .	然後我們去了老師 。
you need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place .	你需要所有人參與 , 讓人類變得更美好 。
so we went to the teachers .	所以我們去了老師 。
over a quarter of a million were taught about family planning with a new alphabet a , b for birth , c for condom , i for iud , v for vasectomy .	超過一千萬人的課程 , 來找尋求生長的成員 , 為 「 保險 」  , 為 「 保險 」  , 為 「 保險 」 為 「 保險 」 。
and then we had a snakes and ladders game , where you throw dice .	然後我們有了蛇和雷射器 , 然後你會丟掉 。
if you land on anything profamily planning , you move ahead .	如果你陸地在任何預期的情況下 , 你就會移動 。
like , " mother takes the pill every night .	比如: 「 媽媽每天晚上睡覺 。
very good , mother . move ahead .	非常好 , 媽媽 。
uncle buys a condom . very good , uncle . move ahead .	叔叔要走進去 。 很棒 , 不可思議 。
uncle gets drunk , doesn't use condom . come back , start again . "	沒用 , 不用保險套 , 再次開始 。 」
again , education , class entertainment .	再次 , 教育、娛樂 。
and the kids were doing it in school too .	孩子們也在學校 。
we had relay races with condoms , we had children's condomblowing championship .	我們有著孩子的保險套 。
and before long , the condom was know as the girl's best friend .	不久之後 , 保險套是女孩最好的朋友 。
in thailand , for poor people , diamonds don't make it so the condom is the girl's best friend .	在泰國 , 窮人 , 窮人 , 不用是女孩最好的朋友 。
we introduced our first microcredit program in 1975 , and the women who organized it said , " we only want to lend to women who practice family planning .	我們在1975年初的微信計畫計畫中 , 她說: 「 我們只想要傾向女性參與這個計畫 。
if you're pregnant , take care of your pregnancy .	如果你懷孕 , 你懷孕懷孕 。
if you're not pregnant , you can take a loan out from us . "	如果你沒有懷孕 , 你就能帶領我們 。 」
and that was run by them .	就是他們 。
and after 35/36 years , it's still going on .	35/36年後 , 它仍不斷發生 。
it's a part of the village development bank ; it's not a real bank , but it's a fund microcredit .	這是村莊發展銀行的一部分 , 它不是真實銀行 , 而是基礎 。
and we didn't need a big organization to run it it was run by the villagers themselves .	我們沒有需要一個巨大的組織 , 讓它被村民自己 。
and you probably hardly see a thai man there , it's always women , women , women , women .	你可能很難看到一個thai男人 , 女人、女人、女人、女人 。
and then we thought we'd help america , because america's been helping everyone , whether they want help or not .	然後我們認為我們會幫助美國人 , 因為美國人都幫助美國人 , 因為美國人都能幫助美國人 , 因為美國人都能幫助美國人 。
and this is on the fourth of july .	這是第四次 。
we decided to provide vasectomy to all men , but in particular , american men to the front of the queue , right up to the ambassador's residence during his [unclear] .	我們決定要提供給所有男人 , 但特別是美國男性 , 美國男性 , 來到美國男性 , 來到美國男性 , 來到美國男性 , 來到美國男性 。
and the hotel gave us the ballroom for it very appropriate room .	旅館帶給我們這間房間的房間 。
and since it was near lunch time , they said , " all right , we'll give you some lunch .	很快的午餐時間 , 他們說: 「 好吧 , 我們會給你一些午餐 。
of course , it must be american cola .	當然 , 這一定是美國的奴隸 。
you get two brands , coke and pepsi .	你有兩種品牌、ke和pepsi 。
and then the food is either hamburger or hotdog . "	食物不是漢堡或熱狗 。 」
and i thought a hotdog will be more symbolic .	我以為一個熱狗會更符合 。
and here is this , then , young man called willy bohm who worked for the usaid .	這裡是這個 , 年輕人叫做 「 年輕人 」 的年輕人 , 叫做 「 年輕人 」 。
obviously , he's had his vasectomy because his hotdog is half eaten , and he was very happy .	顯然 , 他很開心 , 他很開心 。
it made a lot of news in america , and it angered some people also .	它在美國有許多新聞 , 而且也很憤怒 。
i said , " don't worry . come over and i'll do the whole lot of you . "	我說: 「 別擔心 , 別擔心 , 我會做很多你 。 」
in all this thing , from seven children to 1 . 5 children , population growth rate of 3 . 3 to 0 . 5 .	從七個孩子 , 人口成長率增加3.5個孩子 , 數量成長率3.3.5 。
you could call it the cocacola approach if you like it was exactly the same thing .	如果你喜歡它是同樣的東西 。
i'm not sure whether cocacola followed us , or we followed cocacola , but we're good friends .	我不確定cocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocaco
and so that's the case of everyone joining in .	這就是每個人加入的情況 。
we didn't have a strong government . we didn't have lots of doctors .	我們沒有一個強大的政府 , 我們沒有很多醫生 。
but it's everybody's job who can change attitude and behavior .	但它是所有人都能改變態度和行為 。
then aids came along and hit thailand , and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight aids .	接著 , 我們必須停止做很多好事 , 我們必須停止做很多好事 。
but unfortunately , the government was in denial , denial , denial .	但不幸的是 , 政府在丹尼、丹尼、丹麥 。
so our work wasn't affected .	所以我們的工作並不受到影響 。
so i thought , " well , if you can't go to the government , go to the military . "	所以我心想: 「 嗯 , 如果你不能去去軍隊 , 去軍隊 。 」
so i went to the military and asked to borrow 300 radio stations .	所以 , 我去了軍隊 , 去了軍隊 , 去了軍隊 , 去到軍隊 。
they have more than the government , and they've got more guns than the government .	他們比政府更高 , 他們比政府還多 。
so i asked them , could they help us in our fight against hiv .	我問他們 , 他們能幫助我們在對抗愛滋病毒的戰場 。
and after i gave them statistics , they said , " yes . okay . you can use all the radio stations , television stations . "	在我給他們統計時 , 他們說: 「 是的 , 你可以用所有電台 , 電視台 。 」
and that's when we went onto the airwaves .	那就是當我們進入空波時 ,
and then we got a new prime minister soon after that .	接著 , 我們有了新的原始碼 。
and he said , " mechai , could you come and join ? "	他說: 「 墨西 , 你能來加入嗎 ? 」
he asked me in because he liked my wife a lot .	他問我 , 因為他喜歡我的太太 。
so i said , " okay . "	我說: 「 好 。 」
he became the chairman of the national aids committee and increased the budget fiftyfold .	他成為美國國家援助委員會的椅子 , 並增加預算 。
every ministry , even judges , had to be involved in aids education everyone and we said the public , institutions , religious institutions , schools everyone was involved .	每個政府、機構、宗教機構、機構、宗教機構 , 我們都需要參與 。
and here , every media person had to be trained for hiv .	這裡 , 每個媒體人都必須被訓練愛滋病 。
and we gave every station half a minute extra for advertising to earn more money .	我們給了一半的時間 , 花了更多錢 。
so they were happy with that .	他們很高興 。
and then aids education in all schools , starting from university .	然後教育在學校裡 , 從大學開始 。
and these are high school kids teaching high school kids .	這些高中的學校小孩會教高中 。
and the best teachers were the girls , not the boys , and they were terrific .	最好的老師是女孩們 , 不是男孩 , 他們很棒 。
and these girls who go around teaching about safe sex and hiv were known as mother theresa .	這些女孩們會去教導關於安全性和愛滋病的女孩 。
and then we went down one more step .	然後我們再下一步 。
these are primary school kids third , fourth grade going to every household in the village , every household in the whole of thailand , giving aids information and a condom to every household , given by these young kids .	這些小孩子 , 每家家鄉 , 每家房子裡 , 有四年級 , 每家家裡 , 每家家戶都在這個網站上 , 給每個家戶 , 給這些年輕孩子的孩子 。
and no parents objected , because we were trying to save lives , and this was a lifesaver .	沒有父母 , 因為我們試圖拯救生命 , 因為我們試圖拯救生命 , 這是一種生命 。
and we said , " everyone needs to be involved . "	我們說: 「 每個人都需要參與 。 」
so you have the companies also realizing that sick staff don't work , and dead customers don't buy .	所以 , 你有公司也知道 , 客戶不買 , 而死亡客戶不會買 。
so they all trained .	他們都訓練了 。
and then we have this captain condom , with his harvard mba , going to schools and night spots .	然後我們有了這座聖經 , 他的哈佛•米巴 , 到學校和晚點 。
and they loved him . you need a symbol of something .	他們喜歡他 , 你需要一個象徵的象徵
in every country , every program , you need a symbol , and this is probably the best thing he's ever done with his mba .	在每個國家 , 每個國家 , 每個國家 , 你需要一個符號 , 這可能是最好的事情 , 就是他和他的mba 。
and then we gave condoms out everywhere on the streets everywhere , everywhere .	然後我們在街上找到任何地方 。
in taxis , you get condoms .	在x軸上 , 你會得到保證 。
and also , in traffic , the policemen give you condoms our " cops and rubbers " programs .	還有 , 在交通中 , 警察會讓你保持 「 警察 」 的警察 , 警察給你保守我們的 「 警察 」 。
so , can you imagine new york policemen giving out condoms ?	所以 , 你能想像紐約警察局的警察嗎 ?
of course i can . and they'd enjoy it immensely ; i see them standing around right now , everywhere .	當然 , 我可以 , 他們很享受它 , 我可以看到它們站在周圍的處方 。
imagine if they had condoms , giving out to all sorts of people .	想像一下 , 如果他們有保險 , 給予所有人 。
and then , new change , we had hair bands , clothing and the condom for your mobile phone during the rainy season .	接著 , 新的改變 , 我們有頭髮、衣服、衣服、衣服和安全 。
and these were the condoms that we introduced .	這些是我們引導的原子 。
one says , " weapon of mass protection . "	有人說: 「 武器大量保護 。 」
we found you know somebody here was searching for the weapon of mass destruction , but we have found the weapon of mass protection: the condom .	我們發現 , 我們找到了武器的武器 , 但我們發現了武器大規模毀滅性的武器 。
and then it says here , with the american flag , " don't leave home without it . "	然後它會說: 「 不要離開家 , 不要離開家 。 」
but i have some to give out afterward .	但是我有了一些獎勵 。
but let me warn you , these are thaisized , so be very careful .	但讓我保證你們 , 這些是非常小心的 。
and so you can see that condoms can do so many things .	你可以看到保險套可以做很多事 。
look at this i gave this to al gore and to bill senior also .	看看這個 , 我給了它 , 去比爾•金恩 。
stop global warming ; use condoms .	停止全球暖化 ; 使用保險 。
and then this is the picture i mentioned to you the weapon of mass protection .	這是我提到的照片 , 拍攝了大量保護的照片 。
and let the next olympics save some lives .	下一個奧運會拯救一些生命 。
why just run around ?	為什麼 ?
and then finally , in thailand we're buddhist , we don't have a god , so instead , we say , " in rubber we trust . "	最後 , 在泰國 , 我們是佛教徒 , 我們說: 「 我們沒有神 。 」
so you can see that we added everything to our endeavor to make life better for the people .	所以 , 你可以看到 , 我們把所有東西帶給人們 , 讓生命變得更好 。
we had condoms in all the refrigerators in the hotels and the schools , because alcohol impairs judgment .	我們在所有冰箱中 , 酒店裡的所有冰箱 , 因為酒店和學校 , 因為酒吧 。
and then what happened ?	然後發生了什麼事 ?
after all this time , everybody joined in .	畢竟 , 每個人加入了 。
according to the u . n . , new cases of hiv declined by 90 percent , and according to the world bank , 7 . 7 million lives were saved .	根據聯合國 , 全球銀行 , 7000萬人的生活拯救了 。
otherwise there wouldn't be many thais walking around today .	否則 , 現今沒有太多的威脅 。
so it just showed you , you could do something about it .	所以它只是展示給你 , 你可以做些什麼 。
90 percent of the funding came from thailand .	90%的資金來自泰國 。
there was political commitment , some financial commitment , and everybody joined in the fight .	有政治承諾 , 有些財務承諾 , 有些財務承諾 , 所有人都加入 。
so just don't leave it to the specialists and doctors and nurses .	不要留給醫生和護士 。
we all need to help .	我們都需要幫助 。
and then we decided to help people out of poverty , now that we got aids somewhat out of the way this time , not with government alone , but in cooperation with the business community .	接著 , 我們決定要幫助人們脫離貧窮 , 但在合作時 , 我們和商業社區合作 。
because poor people are business people who lack business skills and access to credit .	因為窮人是商業人士 , 可以取得信仰 。
those are the things to be provided by the business community .	這些是商業社區所提供的 。
we're trying to turn them into barefoot entrepreneurs , little business people .	我們試圖將它們轉化為基礎的企業家 , 小企業家 。
the only way out of poverty is through business enterprise .	貧窮的唯一方式就是透過商業企業 。
so , that was done .	這樣做了 。
the money goes from the company into the village via treeplanting .	錢從公司變成村莊的錢 。
it's not a free gift .	這不是自由禮物 。
they plant the trees , and the money goes into their microcredit fund , which we call the village development bank .	他們把樹木拿到他們的微信基金 , 我們稱之為 「 村落發展銀行 」 。
everybody joins in , and they feel they own the bank , because they have brought the money in .	每個人加入 , 他們覺得自己銀行 , 因為他們把錢帶進去 。
and before you can borrow the money , you need to be trained .	在你需要被訓練時 , 你需要被訓練 。
and we believe if you want to help the poor , those who are living in poverty , access to credit must be a human right .	我們相信 , 如果你想要幫助窮人 , 那些住在貧窮的人身上 , 那些住在貧窮的人權中 。
access to credit must be a human right .	要是人類權利 。
otherwise they'll never get out of poverty .	否則他們永遠不會脫離貧窮 。
and then before getting a loan , you must be trained .	之後 , 你必須被訓練 。
here's what we call a " barefoot mba , " teaching people how to do business so that , when they borrow money , they'll succeed with the business .	我們稱之為 「 教導人 」 , 教導人們如何做商業 , 他們會成功 。
these are some of the businesses: mushrooms , crabs , vegetables , trees , fruits , and this is very interesting nike ice cream and nike biscuits ; this is a village sponsored by nike .	這些是一些商業:蘑菇、冰淇淋、冰淇淋、冰淇淋、蔬菜、蔬菜、蔬菜、蔬菜、蔬菜、蔬菜、蔬菜、蔬菜 , 非常有趣的nike的冰淇淋 。
they said , " they should stop making shoes and clothes .	他們說: 「 他們應該停止製造鞋子和衣服 。
make these better , because we can afford them . "	讓這些更好 , 因為我們能負擔他們 。 」
and then we have silk , thai silk .	然後我們有了silk , silk 。
now we're making scottish tartans , as you can see on the left , to sell to all people of scottish ancestors .	現在我們在左邊 , 讓蘇格蘭教師 , 可以在左邊看到 , 讓蘇格蘭教師 。
so anyone sitting in and watching tv , get in touch with me .	所以 , 坐在電視上 , 和我一起看電視 。
and then this is our answer to starbucks in thailand " coffee and condoms . "	我們的答案是 「 咖啡和保險 」 。
see , starbucks you awake , we keep you awake and alive .	看 , 星巴克你醒來 , 我們保持你醒來 。
can you imagine , at every starbucks that you can also get condoms ?	你可以想像 , 在每個星巴克 , 你也可以想像嗎 ?
you can order your condoms with your with your cappuccino .	你可以把你的保留給你的保險套 。
and then now , finally in education , we want to change the school as being underutilized into a place where it's a lifelong learning center for everyone .	現在 , 終於教育 , 我們想要改變學校的教育 , 我們想要改變學校 , 把學校當成一個地方 , 成為一個全身的人 。
we call this our schoolbased integrated rural development .	我們稱之為 「 學校基礎設施 」 。
and it's a center , a focal point for economic and social development .	這是一個中心 , 經濟和社會發展 。
redo the school , make it serve the community needs .	紅杉磯的學校 , 讓它保持社區需求 。
and here is a bamboo building all of them are bamboo .	這裡是竹建築 , 竹子是竹子建築 。
this is a geodesic dome made of bamboo .	這是一個地理學院 。
and i'm sure buckminster fuller would be very , very proud to see a bamboo geodesic dome .	我相信布克雷斯特會非常非常驕傲 , 很明確的 , 非常驕傲 , 來看看一個蝙蝠的生殖器 。
and we use vegetables around the school ground , so they raise their own vegetables .	我們用蔬菜 , 把蔬菜帶給蔬菜 。
and then , finally , i firmly believe , if we want the mdgs to work the millennium development goals we need to add family planning to it .	最後 , 我很相信如果我們需要加入家庭計畫
of course , child mortality first and then family planning everyone needs family planning service it's underutilized .	當然 , 兒童死亡率 , 然後家庭計畫計畫 , 讓每個人都需要家庭計畫 。
so we have now found the weapon of mass protection .	現在我們發現了武器大量保護 。
and we also ask the next olympics to be involved in saving lives .	我們也問下一個奧運會去拯救生命 。
and then , finally , that is our network .	最後 , 這是我們的網路 。
and these are our thai tulips .	這些是我們thai的thai 。
thank you very much indeed .	謝謝大家
your smartphone may feel like a friend but a true friend would give you a smile once in a while . at ted2013 , keller rinaudo demos romo , the smartphonepowered mini robot who can motor along with you on a walk , slide you a cup of coffee across the table , and react to you with programmable expressions .	你的智慧型手機可能感覺像是個朋友 , 你的智慧型手機可能就像朋友一樣 , 你的智慧型手機可能會感覺到你在ted2013年 , 在ted2013年 , 在ted2013年 , 在ted2013年 , 在ted2013年 , 克里娜udodemosromo , 一個朋友 , 你的智慧型手機 , 你的智慧型手機可能會感受到你的智慧型手機 。
keller rinaudo: a mini robot powered by your phone	kellerrinaudo:一個礦工智慧機器人 。
so just by a show of hands , how many of you all have a robot at home ?	舉例來說 , 你有多少人在家裡 ?
not very many of you .	不太多人
okay . and actually of those hands , if you don't include roomba how many of you have a robot at home ?	好吧 , 如果你不在家裡有多少人擁有機器人呢 ?
that's the problem that we're trying to solve at romotive that i and the other 20 nerds at romotive are obsessed with solving .	這是我們試圖解決的問題 , 我和其他20個在羅馬特的問題 , 我們試圖解決這個問題 。
so we really want to build a robot that anyone can use , whether you're eight or 80 .	我們真的想要建立一個機器人 , 任何人可以使用 , 不管你是8或80 。
and as it turns out , that's a really hard problem , because you have to build a small , portable robot that's not only really affordable , but it has to be something that people actually want to take home and have around their kids .	結果發現 , 其實是非常困難的問題 , 因為你必須建立一個小型的機器人 , 不只能負擔得起的機器人 。
this robot can't be creepy or uncanny .	這個機器人無法成為creepy或不知 。
he should be friendly and cute .	他應該很友善和切割 。
romo's a robot that uses a device you already know and love your iphone as his brain .	羅馬是個機器人 , 用你的iphone作為他的大腦 。
and by leveraging the power of the iphone's processor , we can create a robot that is wifi enabled and computer visioncapable for 150 bucks , which is about one percent of what these kinds of robots have cost in the past .	利用iphone處理器 , 我們就可以創造一個機器人的機率 , 大約有150美元 , 可以創造一個機器人的機率 , 大約有150美元 , 大約有150美元 , 大約有150美元 。
when romo wakes up , he's in creature mode .	當romowaks時 , 他就在創作 。
so he's actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face .	所以他其實是用攝影機來追蹤我的臉 。
if i duck down , he'll follow me .	如果我走下去 , 他會跟著我 。
he's wary , so he'll keep his eyes on me .	他很高興 , 所以他會把眼睛放在我 。
if i come over here , he'll turn to follow me .	如果我來到這裡 , 他會轉向我 。
if i come over here he's smart .	如果我來到這裡 , 他很聰明 。
and if i get too close to him , he gets scared just like any other creature .	如果我太接近他 , 他就會像任何其他生物一樣 。
so in a lot of ways , romo is like a pet that has a mind of his own .	所以在許多方面 , 羅馬就像是他自己 。
thanks , little guy .	謝謝 。
and if i want to explore the world uhoh , romo's tired if i want to explore the world with romo , i can actually connect him from any other ios device .	如果我想要探索世界 , 羅馬 , 我可以把他從任何其他的裝置上 。
so here's the ipad .	這是ipad 。
and romo will actually stream video to this device .	羅馬會把影片放到這個裝置上 。
so i can see everything that romo sees , and i get a robot'seyeview of the world .	所以 , 我能看到一切 , 都能看到一切 , 我能看到一切 , 讓它成為世界 。
now this is a free app on the app store , so if any of you guys had this app on your phones , we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together .	現在這個應用程式是應用在應用程式的應用程式 , 所以如果任何人都擁有這個應用程式 , 你可以用手機 , 就能真正地控制機器人和玩遊戲 。
so i'll show you really quickly , romo actually he's streaming video , so you can see me and the entire ted audience .	讓我很快地看到我和整個ted觀眾
if i get in front of romo here .	如果我在羅馬站在這裡 。
and if i want to control him , i can just drive .	如果我想要控制他 , 我就可以駕駛 。
so i can drive him around , and i can take pictures of you .	所以 , 我可以照顧他 , 我可以拍攝你 。
i've always wanted a picture of a 1 , 500person ted audience .	我總是想要一張一個1500億的ted觀眾 。
so i'll snap a picture .	所以 , 我會拍一張照片 。
and in the same way that you scroll through content on an ipad , i can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device .	同樣的方式 , 你可以用相機的角度來調整這個裝置的角度 。
so there are all of you through romo's eyes .	所以 , 你們都在羅馬的眼睛裡 。
and finally , because romo is an extension of me , i can express myself through his emotions .	最後 , 因為羅馬是我可以表達自己的情緒 。
so i can go in and i can say let's make romo excited .	所以 , 我可以去做 , 讓romo興奮 。
but the most important thing about romo is that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive .	最重要的是 , 我們想要創造一個完全直覺的東西 。
you do not have to teach someone how to drive romo .	你不需要教導有人如何駕駛 。
in fact , who would like to drive a robot ?	事實上 , 誰會喜歡駕駛機器人 ?
thank you , scott .	謝謝 , 史考特 。
and even cooler , you actually don't have to be in the same geographic location as the robot to control him .	更酷的是 , 你其實不需要在同地理由機器人控制他 。
so he actually streams twoway audio and video between any two smart devices .	所以他實際上是用兩種聰明裝置的影片 。
so you can log in through the browser , and it's kind of like skype on wheels .	所以你可以透過瀏覽器來瀏覽器 , 它就像天空一樣 。
so we were talking before about telepresence , and this is a really cool example .	所以 , 我們在電視前談過 , 這是很酷的例子 。
you can imagine an eightyearold girl , for example , who has an iphone , and her mom buys her a robot .	你可以想像一個八歲的女孩 , 例如 , 她媽媽買她的機器人 。
that girl can take her iphone , put it on the robot , send an email to grandma , who lives on the other side of the country .	那個女孩可以拿她的iphone , 把電子郵件送到電子郵件 , 送電子郵件 , 送電子郵件 , 送電子郵件 , 送電子郵件 , 送電子郵件給祖母 。
grandma can log into that robot and play hideandgoseek with her granddaughter for fifteen minutes every single night , when otherwise she might only be able to get to see her granddaughter once or twice a year .	奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶奶 , 每晚每晚醒來 , 她可能只能找到她的祖母 , 或兩次 。
so those are a couple of the really cool things that romo can do today .	所以 , 現今 , 羅馬可以做到的一些非常酷的事情 。
but i just want to finish by talking about something that we're working on in the future .	但我只是想談談我們在未來的未來
this is actually something that one of our engineers , dom , built in a weekend .	這是我們工程師的工程師 , 一個星期末 。
it's built on top of a google open framework called blockly .	它是建立在google開放式框架上 。
this allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic code and create any behavior for this robot you want .	這讓你可以把這些盒子放進去 , 讓你想要的行為 。
you do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for romo .	你不需要知道如何編碼來創造一個行為 。
and you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser , which is what you see romo doing on the left .	你可以模擬這個行為在瀏覽器旁邊的行為 , 就是你在瀏覽器中看到romo的行為 。
and then if you have something you like , you can download it onto your robot and execute it in real life , run the program in real life .	如果你有一些你喜歡的東西 , 你就可以把它放在你的機器人上 , 把它放在你的機器人 , 並且在現實生活中完成 。
and then if you have something you're proud of , you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world .	如果你有一些你很驕傲的東西 , 你可以與他人分享它 , 在世界各地都有自己的機器人 。
so all of these wifi–enabled robots actually learn from each other .	這些虛擬的機器人都能從彼此身上學習 。
the reason we're so focused on building robots that everyone can train is that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal .	我們所做的原因是 , 每個人都能訓練的原因是我們認為最有用個人機器人的機器人 。
they change from person to person .	他們會改變從人身上 。
so we think that if you're going to have a robot in your home , that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination .	所以我們認為如果你在你的家裡有機器人 , 那機器人應該是你自己的想像力 。
so i wish that i could tell you what the future of personal robotics looks like .	所以我希望我可以告訴你們未來的未來機器人的未來 。
to be honest , i have no idea .	老實說 , 我沒有想法 。
but what we do know is that it isn't 10 years or 10 billion dollars or a large humanoid robot away .	但我們所知道的是 , 這不是10億美金或10億美金 , 或10億美金 , 不是10億美金 , 或10億美金 , 或十億美金 。
the future of personal robotics is happening today , and it's going to depend on small , agile robots like romo and the creativity of people like yourselves .	個人機器人的未來機器人現在正在發生 , 它會依賴小型的機器人 , 像是羅馬和創造力 。
so we can't wait to get you all robots , and we can't wait to see what you build .	所以 , 我們不等待在等待你看到你建造的東西 。
author and activist isabel allende discusses women , creativity , the definition of feminism and , of course , passion in this talk .	權利主義者和行動主義者和行動主義者和行動主義者的定義 , 女性主義者和行動主義者的定義 , 是女性主義者和行動主義者的定義 。
entertainment , global issues , love , parenting , storytelling , women , world cultures	娛樂 , 全球性的議題 , 娛樂 , 世界文化 , 全球性的議題 , 愛、愛、父母、女人 , 世界文化 。
isabel allende tells tales of passion	伊莎貝爾的敘述是以往往往的 。
thank you so much . it's really scary to be here among the smartest of the smart .	謝謝大家 , 真的很可怕 , 真的很可怕 。
i'm here to tell you a few tales of passion .	我在這裡要告訴你們一些關於熱情的經驗 。
there's a jewish saying that i love .	有一個猶太人說我愛 。
what is truer than truth ? answer: the story .	什麼是真相 ? 答案:故事 。
i'm a storyteller . i want to convey something that is truer than truth about our common humanity .	我是說故事 , 我想要講述我們共同的人類性 。
all stories interest me , and some haunt me until i end up writing them .	對我來說 , 最有興趣的 , 直到我最後寫了他們 。
certain themes keep coming up: justice , loyalty , violence , death , political and social issues , freedom .	有些人會繼續下去:正義、暴力、死亡、政治、社會議題 , 自由 。
i'm aware of the mystery around us , so i write about coincidences , premonitions , emotions , dreams , the power of nature , magic .	我意識到我們的神祕 , 所以我寫了關於巧合、情緒、夢想、情緒、夢想、神秘的力量 。
in the last 20 years i have published a few books , but i have lived in anonymity until february of 2006 , when i carried the olympic flag in the winter olympics in italy .	在2006年 , 我剛剛出版了幾本書 , 但是我在《奧林匹克的奧運卡里》中 , 《奧林匹克•奧林匹克的奧林匹克》 。
that made me a celebrity . now people recognize me in macy's , and my grandchildren think that i'm cool .	這讓我感到很酷 。 現在人們認同我的祖父 , 我很酷 。
allow me to tell you about my four minutes of fame .	讓我告訴你們我四分鐘的四分鐘
one of the organizers of the olympic ceremony , of the opening ceremony , called me and said that i had been selected to be one of the flagbearers .	奧林匹克•奧林匹克的一名員工 , 叫做我說過 , 我被選舉 , 叫做我說過 , 我被選為一個人 。
i replied that surely this was a case of mistaken identity because i'm as far as you can get from being an athlete .	我回答 , 信心是錯覺的 , 因為我是從一個運動員的角度來 。
actually , i wasn't even sure that i could go around the stadium without a walker .	事實上 , 我甚至不確定我可以在台上跑步 。
i was told that this was no laughing matter .	我被告知這不是笑話 。
this would be the first time that only women would carry the olympic flag .	這是第一次唯一女性會帶起奧運旗 。
five women , representing five continents , and three olympic gold medal winners .	五個女人 , 代表五個大陸 , 三個奧林匹克獎金牌 。
my first question was , naturally , what was i going to wear ?	我的第一個問題是 , 天然我會穿什麼 ?
a uniform , she said , and asked for my measurements .	一個不平台 , 她說 , 問我的測量 。
i had a vision of myself in a fluffy anorak , looking like the michelin man .	我有個視障 , 像米斯林人一樣 。
by the middle of february , i found myself in turin , where enthusiastic crowds cheered when any of the 80 olympic teams was in the street .	在20歲時 , 我發現自己在街上 , 當時有80個奧運會議員在街上 。
those athletes had sacrificed everything to compete in the games .	這些運動員在遊戲中扮演了一切競爭 。
they all deserved to win , but there's the element of luck .	他們都得得勝利 , 但有幸運的元素 。
a speck of snow , an inch of ice , the force of the wind , can determine the result of a race or a game .	雪冰 , 風力的風力 , 風力的力量 , 可以決定結果的結果 , 或遊戲 。
however , what matters most more than training or luck is the heart .	然而 , 最重要的訓練或幸運是心臟 。
only a fearless and determined heart will get the gold medal .	只有一個無懼且決定的心臟就會變成黃金牌 。
it is all about passion .	都是關於熱情 。
the streets of turin were covered with red posters announcing the slogan of the olympics .	土星的街道上有著紅色的報導 , 和紅海報告的聲響 。
passion lives here . isn't it always true ?	熱情生活是真的嗎 ?
heart is what drives us and determines our fate .	心臟是驅使我們決定我們的命運 。
that is what i need for my characters in my books: a passionate heart .	這就是我在書中所需要的角色:一個熱情的心 。
i need mavericks , dissidents , adventurers , outsiders and rebels , who ask questions , bend the rules and take risks .	我需要馬里克斯 , 外國人、外國人、外國人、外國人、外面人、外面和反叛者 , 來問問題 。
people like all of you in this room .	像你們一樣的人 。
nice people with common sense do not make interesting characters .	很有趣的人 , 通常都不做趣角色 。
they only make good former spouses .	他們只能做出更好的競爭 。
in the green room of the stadium , i met the other flag bearers: three athletes , and the actresses susan sarandon and sophia loren .	在綠色的房間裡 , 我見到其他的旗幟:三隻運動員 , 和蘇菲利亞和蘇菲利亞 。
also , two women with passionate hearts: wangari maathai , the nobel prizewinner from kenya who has planted 30 million trees . and by doing so , she has changed the soil , the weather , in some places in africa , and of course the economic conditions in many villages .	另外 , 兩位女士來自肯亞•馬達 , 三十萬棵樹 , 來自肯亞 , 她有了三十萬棵樹 , 同時 , 她改變了土壤、天氣、天氣 , 及其它的經濟狀況 。
and somaly mam , a cambodian activist who fights passionately against child prostitution .	馬上 , 柬埔寨的活動家對抗孩子的行動主義者 。
when she was 14 years old , her grandfather sold her to a brothel .	當她十四歲時 , 她祖父賣了她的祖父 。
she told us of little girls raped by men who believe that having sex with a very young virgin will cure them from aids .	她告訴我們 , 小女孩的小女孩被強暴的女孩 , 很年輕的女孩們被男人相信 , 她們會從援助 。
and of brothels where children are forced to receive five , 15 clients per day , and if they rebel , they are tortured with electricity .	孩子們每天都被迫收到5 , 15個客戶 , 如果他們反叛 , 他們會被強迫 。
in the green room i received my uniform .	在綠色的房間裡 , 我收到我的機制 。
it was not the kind of outfit that i normally wear , but it was far from the michelin man suit that i had anticipated . not bad , really .	這不是壞事 , 但它其實是很遠的 。 不是壞事 , 真的 。
i looked like a refrigerator .	我看起來像是冰箱 。
but so did most of the flagbearers , except sophia loren , the universal symbol of beauty and passion .	但 , 大部分的旗幟是美麗和熱情 。
sophia is over 70 and she looks great .	蘇菲利亞是70歲 , 她看起來很棒 。
she's sexy , slim and tall , with a deep tan .	她是 「 性 」 、 「 愛 」 、 「 愛 」 和 「 深蒂 」 。
now , how can you have a deep tan and have no wrinkles ?	那麼 , 你有深深的信仰 , 沒有什麼 ?
when asked in a tv interview , " how could she look so good ? "	在電視訪問中問: 「 怎麼看好 ? 」
she replied , " posture . my back is always straight , and i don't make old people's noises . "	她回答: 「 姿勢 , 我不再讓老人的噪音 。 」
so , there you have some free advice from one of the most beautiful women on earth .	所以 , 你有一些免費的建議 , 來自世界上最美麗的女性之一 。
no grunting , no coughing , no wheezing , no talking to yourselves , no farting .	沒用 , 沒用 , 沒用 , 沒用 , 沒用 , 不用你自己 , 沒用 , 不用你自己 , 不用你說話 。
well , she didn't say that exactly .	嗯 , 她沒說過 。
at some point around midnight , we were summoned to the wings of the stadium , and the loudspeakers announced the olympic flag , and the music started by the way , the same music that starts here , the aida march .	在午夜時 , 我們就開始了 , 音樂開始 , 音樂開始 , 音樂開始 , 音樂開始 , 音樂開始 , 音樂開始 , 音樂開始 , 音樂開始 , 音樂開始 , 音樂開始 。
sophia loren was right in front of me she's a foot taller than i am , not counting the poofy hair .	蘇菲莉亞羅馬在我前面 , 比我還不好 。
she walked elegantly , like a giraffe on the african savannah , holding the flag on her shoulder . i jogged behind on my tiptoes holding the flag on my extended arm , so that my head was actually under the damn flag .	她很高興地 , 像一隻巨大的旗子 , 像一隻巨大的旗子 , 像一隻巨大的旗子 , 我在那邊的旗幟上 , 把旗幟放在我的頭頂上 , 直到她肩膀的旗幟 。
all the cameras were , of course , on sophia .	所有相機都是 , 當然 , 蘇菲利亞 。
that was fortunate for me , because in most press photos i appear too , although often between sophia's legs .	對我來說 , 這很幸運 , 因為我在蘇菲利亞的腿上看到了 。
a place where most men would love to be .	大部分男人會喜歡的地方 。
the best four minutes of my entire life were those in the olympic stadium .	我人生中最好四分鐘的四分鐘都在奧運館 。
my husband is offended when i say this although i have explained to him that what we do in private usually takes less than four minutes so he shouldn't take it personally .	我的丈夫被告知 , 我丈夫說過這一點 , 通常我不只花少了四分鐘 , 但他不應該把他當作 。
i have all the press clippings of those four magnificent minutes , because i don't want to forget them when old age destroys my brain cells .	我有了這四個巨大的消息 , 因為我不想忘記這些四十歲的孩子 , 因為我不想忘記他們的大腦細胞 。
i want to carry in my heart forever the key word of the olympics passion .	我希望在我的心中 , 熱情的關鍵詞是奧運的關鍵詞 。
so here's a tale of passion .	所以這是一個關於熱情的故事 。
the year is 1998 , the place is a prison camp for tutsi refugees in congo .	今年是1998年 , 那個地方是個監獄營 , 在那裡 , 一個監獄營 , 在那裡 , 一個監獄營 ,
by the way , 80 percent of all refugees and displaced people in the world are women and girls .	順便一提 , 世界上有80%的難民和女孩們 。
we can call this place in congo a death camp , because those who are not killed will die of disease or starvation .	我們可以稱之為 「 死亡營 」 , 因為那些沒有殺死的人 , 或餓死 。
the protagonists of this story are a young woman , rose mapendo , and her children .	這個故事的原始人是年輕女性、羅斯基地圖 , 以及她的孩子 。
she's pregnant and a widow .	她懷孕 , 懷孕 。
soldiers have forced her to watch as her husband was tortured and killed .	士兵們強迫她去看她的丈夫被殺害 。
somehow she manages to keep her seven children alive , and a few months later , she gives birth to premature twins .	不管她七個孩子活生 , 幾個月後 , 她就生出生長 。
two tiny little boys .	兩個小男孩 。
she cuts the umbilical cord with a stick , and ties it with her own hair .	她把雙頭髮帶到頭髮上 , 和她自己的頭髮 。
she names the twins after the camp's commanders to gain their favor , and feeds them with black tea because her milk cannot sustain them .	她稱之為 「 黑人 」 的 「 青少年 」 , 因為她的奶奶無法保持她們 。
when the soldiers burst in her cell to rape her oldest daughter , she grabs hold of her and refuses to let go , even when they hold a gun to her head .	當士兵在她的老女兒 , 她抓住警察 , 她抓住她的老女兒 , 她抓住她 , 抓住她 。
somehow , the family survives for 16 months , and then , by extraordinary luck , and the passionate heart of a young american man , sasha chanoff , who manages to put her in a u . s . rescue plane , rose mapendo and her nine children end up in phoenix , arizona , where they're now living and thriving .	嗯 , 美國人的家庭生存活生存活了十六個月 , 後來 , 美國人的心臟很高興 , 一個年輕美國人的心臟 , 一個年輕美國人的家庭生存 , 在那裡 , 他們現在正在生存 , 和她一起生存下來 。
mapendo , in swahili , means great love .	地圖 , 地圖 , 美麗的愛 。
the protagonists of my books are strong and passionate women like rose mapendo .	我的書籍非常強烈和熱情的 。
i don't make them up . there's no need for that .	我不把他們放棄 , 沒有必要 。
i look around and i see them everywhere .	我看著他們周圍 , 我看到它們 。
i have worked with women and for women all my life .	我和女人和女人一起工作 。
i know them well .	我知道他們 。
i was born in ancient times , at the end of the world , in a patriarchal catholic and conservative family .	我出生在古代時代 , 在世界各地 , 一間充滿保守派的家庭 。
no wonder that by age five i was a raging feminist although the term had not reached chile yet , so nobody knew what the heck was wrong with me .	沒人知道我在五歲時 , 沒有人知道我是誰 , 沒有人知道我是誰 , 沒人知道我是誰 。
i would soon find out that there was a high price to pay for my freedom , and for questioning the patriarchy .	我很快就發現 , 有了高價的薪水 , 來付錢給自由 , 來付錢 。
but i was happy to pay it , because for every blow that i received , i was able to deliver two .	但我很高興 , 因為每當我收到我收到的 , 我就得到了兩種 。
once , when my daughter paula was in her twenties , she said to me that feminism was dated , that i should move on .	一次 , 當我女兒保羅拉 , 她說我女兒保羅拉在二十歲的時候 , 她告訴我 , 我應該要移動 。
we had a memorable fight . feminism is dated ?	我們有了不可避免的戰鬥 , 女性主義是嗎 ?
yes , for privileged women like my daughter and all of us here today , but not for most of our sisters in the rest of the world who are still forced into premature marriage , prostitution , forced labor they have children that they don't want or they cannot feed .	是的 , 對於今天的女性來說 , 我女兒和所有人一樣 , 但不是在世界上大部分的奴隸制度、勞動力、勞動力、勞動力勞工 , 她們不想要或她們無法餵飽 。
they have no control over their bodies or their lives .	他們沒有控制自己的身體或生命 。
they have no education and no freedom .	他們沒有教育、沒有自由 。
they are raped , beaten up and sometimes killed with impunity .	他們被強暴 , 有時會被殺害 。
for most western young women of today , being called a feminist is an insult .	大部分西方年輕女性的年輕女性 , 被稱為 「 女性主義 」 。
feminism has never been sexy , but let me assure you that it never stopped me from flirting , and i have seldom suffered from lack of men .	女性主義永遠不會阻止我 , 而是讓我保證你們永遠不會阻止我 , 女性主義永遠不會阻止我 , 但讓我保證它永遠不會阻止我 。
feminism is not dead , by no means .	女性主義並不是死亡 , 不是死亡 。
it has evolved . if you don't like the term , change it , for goddess' sake .	它演化出來 , 如果你不喜歡這個詞 , 就會改變它 。
call it aphrodite , or venus , or bimbo , or whatever you want ; the name doesn't matter , as long as we understand what it is about , and we support it .	稱它為 「 英雄 」 或 「 無線 」 或 「 無線 」 , 或 「 無線 」 , 或 「 無線 」 , 或 「 無線 」 , 或 「 無線 」 , 或 「 無線 」 , 我們支持它 。
so here's another tale of passion , and this is a sad one .	這裡有一個關於熱情的故事 , 這是一個悲傷 。
the place is a small women's clinic in a village in bangladesh .	在孟加拉的小婦女診所 ,
the year is 2005 .	一年是2005年
jenny is a young american dental hygienist who has gone to the clinic as a volunteer during her threeweek vacation .	珍妮是一位年輕美國的美國牙醫師 , 在她三週期的醫療照護時 , 懷孕 。
she's prepared to clean teeth , but when she gets there , she finds out that there are no doctors , no dentists , and the clinic is just a hut full of flies .	她準備乾淨的牙齒 , 但當她發現 , 診所沒有醫生 , 沒有醫生 , 沒有醫生 , 沒有醫生 , 沒有醫生 , 沒有醫生 。
outside , there is a line of women who have waited several hours to be treated .	在外面 , 有一群婦女需要等待幾小時 。
the first patient is in excruciating pain because she has several rotten molars .	第一個病人很痛苦 , 因為她有幾種圓形 。
jenny realizes that the only solution is to pull out the bad teeth .	珍妮了解 , 唯一的解決方法是要推出出壞的牙齒 。
she's not licensed for that ; she has never done it .	她沒有做過 。
she risks a lot and she's terrified .	她很害怕 。
she doesn't even have the proper instruments , but fortunately she has brought some novocaine .	她甚至沒有適合的樂器 , 但幸運的是 , 她有了一些非凡的樂器 。
jenny has a brave and passionate heart .	珍妮有勇氣和熱情 。
she murmurs a prayer and she goes ahead with the operation .	她是一位禱告 , 再往前邁進 。
at the end , the relieved patient kisses her hands .	最後 , 救護病患有了她的手 。
that day the hygienist pulls out many more teeth .	那天 , 智力會越來越多牙齒 。
the next morning , when she comes again to the socalled clinic , her first patient is waiting for her with her husband .	第二天早上 , 她的第一位病人正等待她的丈夫 。
the woman's face looks like a watermelon .	女人的臉看起來像是水母 。
it is so swollen that you can't even see the eyes .	你甚至看不到眼睛 。
the husband , furious , threatens to kill the american .	丈夫、憤怒、威脅要殺美國 。
jenny is horrified at what she has done , but then the translator explains that the patient's condition has nothing to do with the operation .	珍妮很害怕她已經完成了 , 但後來翻譯告訴病人的狀況並不適合 。
the day before , her husband beat her up because she was not home in time to prepare dinner for him .	早餐時 , 她的丈夫因為她不在準備晚餐 。
millions of women live like this today .	數百萬的女性生活就像這樣 。
they are the poorest of the poor .	他們是最窮的窮人 。
although women do twothirds of the world's labor , they own less than one percent of the world's assets .	儘管女性在全世界的三分之三分之三分之三分之三分之三分之一
they are paid less than men for the same work if they're paid at all , and they remain vulnerable because they have no economic independence , and they are constantly threatened by exploitation , violence and abuse .	他們沒有經濟獨立 , 因為他們沒有經濟獨立 , 因為他們沒有經濟獨立 , 他們依然被剝削、暴力和虐待 。
it is a fact that giving women education , work , the ability to control their own income , inherit and own property , benefits the society .	其實是提供教育、工作、能力 , 能控制自己的收入、財富 , 以及自己的收入 , 能控制自己的收入 , 以及自己的收入 。
if a woman is empowered , her children and her family will be better off .	如果女性有權力 , 她的孩子和家庭會變得更好 。
if families prosper , the village prospers , and eventually so does the whole country .	如果家庭的繁榮 , 最終 , 整個國家就這樣 。
wangari maathai goes to a village in kenya .	威廉•馬達就在肯亞的村莊 。
she talks with the women and explains that the land is barren because they have cut and sold the trees .	她和女人交談 , 讓土地被砍掉 , 讓土地被砍掉 , 讓土地被砍掉 。
she gets the women to plant new trees and water them , drop by drop .	她把女人送到植物的新樹和水中 , 把它們帶進去 。
in a matter of five or six years , they have a forest , the soil is enriched , and the village is saved .	五到六年內 , 他們有森林 , 土壤很有錢 , 他們有森林 , 土壤被拯救 。
the poorest and most backward societies are always those that put women down .	最窮和最窮的社會 , 最窮和最窮的人 , 就是讓女性脫離 。
yet this obvious truth is ignored by governments and also by philanthropy .	但這明顯的真相是政府和慈善事業 。
for every dollar given to a women's program , 20 dollars are given to men's programs .	每一美元給男性的計畫 , 20美元給男性的計畫 。
women are 51 percent of humankind .	女性是51%的人 。
empowering them will change everything more than technology and design and entertainment .	讓他們能改變一切 , 不僅科技、設計和娛樂 。
i can promise you that women working together linked , informed and educated can bring peace and prosperity to this forsaken planet .	我可以承認 , 教育和平和平和平衡和平和平衡和平和平衡 。
in any war today , most of the casualties are civilians , mainly women and children . they are collateral damage .	在任何戰爭中 , 主要是女性和孩子 , 主要是女性和孩子 , 他們是大屠殺 。
men run the world , and look at the mess we have .	男人跑世界 , 看看我們所擁有的一切 。
what kind of world do we want ?	我們想要什麼樣的世界 ?
this is a fundamental question that most of us are asking .	這是我們大部分人都問過的問題 。
does it make sense to participate in the existing world order ?	是否有合理化合理的存在世界秩序 ?
we want a world where life is preserved and the quality of life is enriched for everybody , not only for the privileged .	我們想要一個世界生活的品質 , 和品質生活的品質 , 不只能提供給人的價值 。
in january i saw an exhibit of fernando botero's paintings at the uc berkeley library .	當時我看到了一幅美麗圖書館的畫作
no museum or gallery in the united states , except for the new york gallery that carries botero's work , has dared to show the paintings because the theme is the abu ghraib prison .	在美國 , 沒有博物館或伽利•卡里斯博物館 , 因為這幅畫作是阿布•卡里森 。
they are huge paintings of torture and abuse of power , in the voluminous botero style .	它們是巨大的痛苦和濫用力量 , 在大幅的畫作和濫用 。
i have not been able to get those images out of my mind or my heart .	我沒有辦法把這些影像放在我的心裡 。
what i fear most is power with impunity .	我害怕的是力量 。
i fear abuse of power , and the power to abuse .	我害怕濫用權力 , 以及權力的力量 。
in our species , the alpha males define reality , and force the rest of the pack to accept that reality and follow the rules .	在我們的物種中 , 雄猩猩猩猩猩猩們定義現實和遵守規則 。
the rules change all the time , but they always benefit them , and in this case , the trickledown effect , which does not work in economics , works perfectly .	規則改變了所有時間 , 但它們總是在經濟上運作 , 但它們總是好處在經濟運作中 , 不是在經濟上運作的 。
abuse trickles down from the top of the ladder to the bottom .	自從最頂尖的山頂上升到底部 。
women and children , especially the poor , are at the bottom .	女人和孩子 , 尤其是窮人 , 尤其是窮人 。
even the most destitute of men have someone they can abuse a woman or a child .	即使是最嚴重的女人或孩子 , 他們還是個孩子 。
i'm fed up with the power that a few exert over the many through gender , income , race , and class .	我在許多經歷性別、收入、種族、種族、種族、種族、等級 。
i think that the time is ripe to make fundamental changes in our civilization .	我認為 , 時間在我們文明中創造出基本的改變 。
but for real change , we need feminine energy in the management of the world .	但為了真正的改變 , 我們需要女性能源在世界各地 。
we need a critical number of women in positions of power , and we need to nurture the feminine energy in men .	我們需要保持女性的女性 , 我們需要保持女性的女性 。
i'm talking about men with young minds , of course .	我跟年輕人說話 。
old guys are hopeless ; we have to wait for them to die off .	老人很希望 ; 我們必須等待他們離開 。
yes , i would love to have sophia loren's long legs and legendary breasts .	是的 , 我會愛有蘇菲利亞的長腿和法律官員 。
but given a choice , i would rather have the warrior hearts of wangari maathai , somaly mam , jenny and rose mapendo .	但 , 為了選擇 , 我會和羅斯科羅斯基地圖 。
i want to make this world good .	我想要讓這個世界變得美好 。
not better , but to make it good .	不是更好 , 但讓它變得更好 。
why not ? it is possible . look around in this room all this knowledge , energy , talent and technology .	為什麼不 ? 它是可能的 。
let's get off our fannies , roll up our sleeves and get to work , passionately , in creating an almost perfect world .	咱們把我們的腳踏進去 , 創造一個非常完美的世界 。
every day , in a city the size of london , 30 million meals are served . but where does all the food come from ? architect carolyn steel discusses the daily miracle of feeding a city , and shows how ancient food routes shaped the modern world .	每一天 , 在城市的城市中 , 三千萬美金的城市中 , 城市裡有多古老的食物 , 城市裡的城市 , 城市的大小 , 以及古老的糧食城市 , 城市裡的城市 , 城市的樣貌 , 以及古老的食物如何形成現代世界 。
cities , culture , food , global issues	城市、文化、食物 , 全球議題 。
carolyn steel: how food shapes our cities	卡羅林:如何形塑我們的城市 。
how do you feed a city ?	你要如何餵飽一個城市 ?
it's one of the great questions of our time .	這是我們時代最大的問題之一 。
yet it's one that's rarely asked .	但這是個很罕見的問題 。
we take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant , or indeed into this theater's foyer in about an hour's time , there is going to be food there waiting for us , having magically come from somewhere .	我們要把食物帶進一間餐廳 , 或餐廳 , 等待我們 , 來到一個小時的餐廳 , 或餐廳 , 等待我們 , 就好好了 。
but when you think that every day for a city the size of london , enough food has to be produced , transported , bought and sold , cooked , eaten , disposed of , and that something similar has to happen every day for every city on earth , it's remarkable that cities get fed at all .	但當你認為每一天都市市的城市都被生產、運輸、運輸、運輸、運輸、食物、生產、運輸、運輸、運輸、運輸、食物 , 都能被生產、運輸、食物 。
we live in places like this as if they're the most natural things in the world , forgetting that because we're animals and that we need to eat , we're actually as dependent on the natural world as our ancient ancestors were .	我們生活在這個世界中 , 因為我們是人類的祖先 , 因為我們是動物 , 我們應該要吃 , 因為我們是人類的祖先 , 是我們的祖先 。
and as more of us move into cities , more of that natural world is being transformed into extraordinary landscapes like the one behind me it's soybean fields in mato grosso in brazil in order to feed us .	隨著我們進入城市 , 越來越多的天然世界已經轉變為美麗的景象 , 如同我在巴西的地景 , 像我在巴西的地景 , 像是我們在巴西的地景 。
these are extraordinary landscapes , but few of us ever get to see them .	這些是非凡的景象 , 但少數人看到他們 。
and increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either .	而這些地景不僅僅是餵養我們 。
as more of us move into cities , more of us are eating meat , so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals .	隨著我們人類動物 , 比我們人類動物更吃肉 , 三分之三的食物 , 地球上都吃肉類 。
and given that it takes three times as much grain actually ten times as much grain to feed a human if it's passed through an animal first , that's not a very efficient way of feeding us .	若它能餵飽人類的速度 , 只要有三倍的時間 , 不夠有效率 , 才能餵飽人類 。
and it's an escalating problem too .	這是個問題 。
by 2050 , it's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities .	到2050年 , 估計有兩倍 。
and it's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed .	同時也估計 , 估計有兩倍 。
so meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand .	所以 , 肉和城市主義在手上 。
and that's going to pose an enormous problem .	這會帶來巨大的問題 。
six billion hungry carnivores to feed , by 2050 .	六十億個飢餓的食物 , 到2050年 。
that's a big problem . and actually if we carry on as we are , it's a problem we're very unlikely to be able to solve .	這是一個大問題 , 我們很不容易解決這個問題 。
nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land .	每年有九千萬英頃的雨林被砍伐 , 創造出新的土地 。
although at the same time we're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion .	雖然同時我們失去了許多的存在方式 , 使我們失去了許多的存在方式 , 使我們失去了同一時間 。
we're very hungry for fossil fuels too .	我們對化石燃料也很重要 。
it takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the west .	它需要10卡里的食物 , 每一塊卡路里的食物 , 都會消耗 。
and even though there is food that we are producing at great cost , we don't actually value it .	儘管我們有糧食 , 我們還沒有真正價值 。
half the food produced in the usa is currently thrown away .	美國的糧食生產在美國被丟掉 。
and to end all of this , at the end of this long process , we're not even managing to feed the planet properly .	最後 , 最終 , 最終 , 我們還沒辦法把這顆行星運送給地球 。
a billion of us are obese , while a further billion starve .	我們有十億顆星球 , 數十億顆星球 。
none of it makes very much sense .	沒有人能非常感動 。
and when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations , it's a grim picture .	當你認為世界上80%的全球貿易已經被控制了 , 只是五種全球貿易 。
as we're moving into cities , the world is also embracing a western diet .	隨著我們進入城市時 , 世界也能擁抱一個西方的飲食 。
and if we look to the future , it's an unsustainable diet .	如果我們看看未來 , 它是一種不穩定的飲食 。
so how did we get here ?	所以 , 我們怎麼來到這裡呢 ?
and more importantly , what are we going to do about it ?	更重要的是 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , to answer the slightly easier question first , about 10 , 000 years ago , i would say , is the beginning of this process in the ancient near east , known as the fertile crescent .	首先 , 大約一萬年前 , 我會說 , 這是一萬年前 , 我會說 , 這是一萬年前 , 我會說 , 正是這個過程的一開始 , 大約一萬年前 。
because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .	因為 , 你可以看到 , 它是很嚴重的形狀 。
and it was also fertile .	它也很有趣 。
and it was here , about 10 , 000 years ago , that two extraordinary inventions , agriculture and urbanism , happened roughly in the same place and at the same time .	大約一萬年前 , 這兩種非凡的發明、農業和城市主義 , 都在同一時間 。
this is no accident , because agriculture and cities are bound together . they need each other .	這並不意外 , 因為農業和城市都互相吸引 , 他們需要彼此 。
because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements .	因為它是我們古老祖先的祖先第一次生產食物來源 , 足夠足夠足夠支持永久性 。
and if we look at what those settlements were like , we see they were compact .	如果我們看看這些設置的樣子 , 我們看到它們是相同的 。
they were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at ur , that were , in fact , effectively , spiritualized , central food distribution centers .	牠們被生產力農田地和大型的樣子 , 非常有生產力 , 例如 , 中央食物分配中心 。
because it was the temples that organized the harvest , gathered in the grain , offered it to the gods , and then offered the grain that the gods didn't eat back to the people .	因為它是神聖的神殿 , 把那些神的神帶進去 , 讓帝國也不在穀物上帝 , 再給上帝 。
so , if you like , the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them .	所以 , 如果你喜歡 , 整個靈性和生命 , 這些城市都被穀物和穀物包含了 。
and in fact , that's true of every ancient city .	事實上 , 每個古老城市都一樣 。
but of course not all of them were that small .	但當然不是所有人都很小 。
famously , rome had about a million citizens by the first century a . d .	嗯 , 羅馬大約有一百萬公民 , 羅馬有一千萬公民 。
so how did a city like this feed itself ?	像這樣的城市是怎麼樣的呢 ?
the answer is what i call " ancient food miles . "	答案是 , 我稱之為 「 古代食物哩 」 。
basically , rome had access to the sea , which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away .	基本上 , 羅馬可以把食物帶到海裡 , 讓它可以從很長的路上走到海 。
this is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world , because it was very difficult to transport food over roads , which were rough .	這是世界上唯一的方法 , 因為它很難運輸食物的路徑 , 因為它非常困難 。
and the food obviously went off very quickly .	食物顯然很快 。
so rome effectively waged war on places like carthage and egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves .	所以羅馬效果很嚴重 , 像是卡西和埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及
and , in fact , you could say that the expansion of the empire was really sort of one long , drawn out militarized shopping spree , really .	事實上 , 你可能說 , 阿拉伯斯的擴張是很長的 , 其實是很長的 , 可以說 , 其實是很長的 , 其實是很長的 。
in fact i love the fact , i just have to mention this: rome in fact used to import oysters from london , at one stage . i think that's extraordinary .	事實上 , 我剛剛提到這一點:羅馬事實上 , 我剛剛提到這一點:羅馬實際上是從倫敦拿來的 , 其實我很喜歡 。
so rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite .	羅馬會用它的風格來源 。
but the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the preindustrial world .	但有趣的是 , 其他事情也發生在工業世界 。
if we look at a map of london in the 17th century , we can see that its grain , which is coming in from the thames , along the bottom of this map .	如果我們看看在十七世紀的地圖 , 我們可以看到它的地圖 , 在十七世紀的地圖中 , 我們可以看到它的地圖 。
so the grain markets were to the south of the city .	所以 , 穀物市場是城市的市場 。
and the roads leading up from them to cheapside , which was the main market , were also grain markets .	路徑是主要市場 , 也是穀物市場 。
and if you look at the name of one of those streets , bread street , you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago .	如果你看看這條街道的名字 , 你可以看到三百年前 。
and the same of course was true for fish .	當然 , 魚類也一樣 。
fish was , of course , coming in by river as well . same thing .	魚當然是從河流到河流的 , 當然 , 也是一樣的 。
and of course billingsgate , famously , was london's fish market , operating onsite here until the mid1980s .	當然 , 法則是倫敦的魚類市場 , 直到1980年代末期 。
which is extraordinary , really , when you think about it .	很不可思議的是 , 當你想到它時 , 真的 。
everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port .	每個人都跟著手機看起來像是磚頭 , 像是磚頭 , 像是磚頭 , 像是磚頭 , 像是磚頭 , 像是磚頭 , 和其他的 。
this is another thing about food in cities: once its roots into the city are established , they very rarely move .	城市裡的另一件事是:一旦它根入城市中 , 牠們非常罕見 。
meat is a very different story because , of course , animals could walk into the city .	肉是非常不同的故事因為 , 當然 , 動物可以走進城市
so much of london's meat was coming from the northwest , from scotland and wales .	倫敦的熱忱是從西西北部到北部 , 來自蘇格蘭和威爾斯 。
so it was coming in , and arriving at the city at the northwest , which is why smithfield , london's very famous meat market , was located up there .	所以 , 就在北美洲 , 就在北部 , 那裡有著名的食物 , 在那裡 , 倫敦有著非常有名的食物 。
poultry was coming in from east anglia and so on , to the northeast .	禿鷲從東東北東東北東東北部 。
i feel a bit like a weather woman doing this . anyway , and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes .	我覺得有點像是一個天氣人 , 牠們的腳趾頭在腳上 , 牠們的腳趾頭向上 , 來到牠們的腳趾 。
and then when they hit the eastern end of cheapside , that's where they were sold , which is why it's called poultry .	然後當他們進入東方時 , 他們會被賣出來 , 這就是為什麼它叫做 「 詩人 」 。
and , in fact , if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age , you can trace food coming in to it .	事實上 , 如果你看看任何城市在工業時代的地圖 , 你就可以拿到它 。
you can actually see how it was physically shaped by food , both by reading the names of the streets , which give you a lot of clues .	你可以看到它是如何透過食物的名字 , 透過食物的名字 , 透過食物的名字 , 你可以看到它是如何形狀的 。
friday street , in a previous life , is where you went to buy your fish on a friday .	星期五的星期五日常生活 , 你去買你的魚 。
but also you have to imagine it full of food .	但你必須想像它全食物 。
because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold .	因為街道和公共空間是唯一食物被購買和公共空間 。
and if we look at an image of smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from .	如果我們在1830年看到 , 你可以看到它會非常困難 , 在1830年時 , 你可以看到它會變得非常困難 , 生活在1830年 , 你可以看到它會變得非常困難 。
in fact , if you were having sunday lunch , the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier .	事實上 , 如果你有星期天氣候 , 你有一天午餐 , 你的機會大概是三天前的機率 。
so this was obviously an organic city , part of an organic cycle .	這顯然是一個有機體循環的一部分 。
and then 10 years later everything changed .	然後十年後 , 一切都改變了 。
this is an image of the great western in 1840 .	這是1840年的照片 。
and as you can see , some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep .	你們可以看到 , 一些最早的訓練乘客是豬和羊 。
so all of a sudden , these animals are no longer walking into market .	突然間 , 這些動物不再走進市場 。
they're being slaughtered out of sight and mind , somewhere in the countryside .	他們被屠殺在國外的身邊 。
and they're coming into the city by rail .	他們會進入城市中 。
and this changes everything .	這改變了一切 。
to start off with , it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities , really any size and shape , in any place .	首先 , 它會讓它成為可能的第一次成長城市 , 大小和形狀 。
cities used to be constrained by geography ; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means .	城市被地理地理所被地理 , 都被地理地理所限制 , 因為他們必須取得食物 , 被地理地理所限制 。
all of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography .	突然間 , 它們有效地地地地理地理 。
and as you can see from these maps of london , in the 90 years after the trains came , it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot , and so on , to a large splurge , that would be very , very difficult to feed with anybody on foot , either animals or people .	你們可以看到從這些地圖上 , 飛行的八十年來 , 飛行器在火車上飛行 , 很容易被動物排放 , 不管是誰 , 或人 。
and of course that was just the beginning . after the trains came cars , and really this marks the end of this process .	當然那只是剛剛剛剛剛剛開始的 , 火車站在火車上 , 真的是這個過程的過程 。
it's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all .	它是整個城市從任何自然的角度來看它 。
and this is the kind of city that's devoid of smell , devoid of mess , certainly devoid of people , because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape .	這是城市的城市 , 沒有人會想走在地景上 , 因為沒有人會想走在那邊 。
in fact , what they did to get food was they got in their cars , drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts , came back with a week's worth of shopping , and wondered what on earth to do with it .	事實上 , 他們所做的是 , 把食物帶到一個盒子上 , 來到一個盒子上 , 來到一個盒子上 , 來到一個盒子 , 來到一個盒子 , 來到一個盒子 , 來看看地球上有什麼樣子 。
and this really is the moment when our relationship , both with food and cities , changes completely .	這真的是我們和城市之間的關係 , 改變了我們關係的時刻 。
here we have food that used to be the center , the social core of the city at the periphery .	這裡我們有食物 , 是城市的社會核心 。
it used to be a social event , buying and selling food .	以前是社交活動 , 買賣食物 。
we used to cook ; now we just add water , or a little bit of an egg if you're making a cake or something .	我們只花了一點蛋 , 只要你製造蛋糕或一些東西 。
we don't smell food to see if it's okay to eat .	我們不會聞到食物 , 來看看是否能吃 。
we just read the back of a label on a packet .	我們只是從一個標籤上讀到一個標籤 。
and we don't value food . we don't trust it .	我們不相信它 。
so instead of trusting it , we fear it .	不是信任它 , 我們恐懼它 。
and instead of valuing it , we throw it away .	不用擔心它 , 我們把它丟掉 。
one of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder .	現代食物系統的最大諷刺是 , 他們證明了 , 使得更容易變得更困難 。
by making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place , they've actually distanced us from our most important relationship , which is that of us and nature .	若要建立城市 , 或任何地方 , 他們都能建立城市 , 和自然界的關係 。
and also they've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver , that , as we've seen , are unsustainable .	而且它們也讓我們依賴系統唯一能做到的系統 , 不可避免的 。
so what are we going to do about that ?	那麼我們要怎麼做呢 ?
it's not a new question .	這不是一個新問題 。
500 years ago it's what thomas more was asking himself .	500年前 , 湯瑪斯會問他自己 。
this is the frontispiece of his book " utopia . "	這是他的書《烏托邦》 。
and it was a series of semiindependent citystates , if that sounds remotely familiar , a day's walk from one another where everyone was basically farmingmad , and grew vegetables in their back gardens , and ate communal meals together , and so on .	這是一連串的聯合國 , 一連串的聯合在一起 , 如果聽眾聽起來很熟悉 , 人們基本上是從哪裡走出來的 , 人們基本上是從哪裡來的 , 人們基本上是從哪裡來的 。
and i think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of utopia , even though more never framed it that way .	我認為你可以說 , 糧食是一種基礎的原理 , 即使從來沒有詐欺它 。
and here is another very famous " utopian " vision , that of ebenezer howard , " the garden city . "	這裡有一個非常有名的 " 綠色城市 "
same idea: series of semiindependent citystates , little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around , joined to one another by railway .	同樣的點子: 「 連續的城市 」 和 「 無線電池 」 的小組合 , 加入到另一邊 。
and again , food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision .	再一次 , 食物可以成為他的視覺 。
it even got built , but nothing to do with this vision that howard had .	它甚至還沒用 , 但沒有用這個視覺來做 。
and that is the problem with these utopian ideas , that they are utopian .	這就是這些烏托邦的問題 , 他們是烏托邦 。
utopia was actually a word that thomas moore used deliberately .	烏托邦是湯瑪斯•奧斯•摩爾的名字 。
it was a kind of joke , because it's got a double derivation from the greek .	這是個笑話 , 因為它有雙向希臘的動機 。
it can either mean a good place , or no place .	它可以代表一個好的地方 , 或沒有地方 。
because it's an ideal . it's an imaginary thing . we can't have it .	因為它是理想的 , 我們無法擁有它 。
and i think , as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling , that makes it not much use .	我認為 , 對於人類的技巧而言 , 這種概念是很深的問題 , 就是它不用 。
so i've come up with an alternative , which is sitopia , from the ancient greek , " sitos " for food , and " topos " for place .	所以 , 我有了一種替代的食物 , 「 伊斯蘭 」 、 「 伊斯蘭 」 、 「 伊斯蘭 」 的食物 。
i believe we already live in sitopia .	我相信我們已經住在矽谷 。
we live in a world shaped by food , and if we realize that , we can use food as a really powerful tool a conceptual tool , design tool , to shape the world differently .	我們生活在世界各地 , 如果我們意識到 , 如果我們意識到 , 我們可以用食物來形塑世界 , 設計工具、設計工具、設計工具 , 來形塑世界 。
so if we were to do that , what might sitopia look like ?	所以如果我們要這樣做 , 那麼 , 會怎樣呢 ?
well i think it looks a bit like this .	我覺得看起來有點像這樣 。
i have to use this slide . it's just the look on the face of the dog .	我需要用這張幻燈片 , 看起來是狗的臉 。
but anyway , this is it's food at the center of life , at the center of family life , being celebrated , being enjoyed , people taking time for it .	無論是 , 在家庭生活中心的中心 , 人們花了時間來做這件事 。
this is where food should be in our society .	這是食物應該在我們的社會中 。
but you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this .	但你沒有這樣的景象 , 除非你有這樣的人 。
by the way , these can be men as well .	順便一提 , 這些都是男性 。
it's people who think about food , who think ahead , who plan , who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them .	有些人認為 , 吃飯 , 可以把它們吃掉 , 把它們放進去 , 去思考食物 。
we need these people . we're part of a network .	我們需要這些人 , 我們是網路的一部分 。
because without these kinds of people we can't have places like this .	因為沒有這樣的人 , 我們就沒有這樣的情況 。
here , i deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable .	在這裡 , 我覺得這是因為它是個男人買蔬菜 。
but networks , markets where food is being grown locally .	但網際網路、市場 , 食物都在成長 。
it's common . it's fresh .	很常見 , 它很常見 。
it's part of the social life of the city .	這是城市的一部分 。
because without that , you can't have this kind of place , food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape , and is not just a zerosum commodity off in some unseen hellhole .	因為 , 若沒有 , 你就不能有這種地方的食物 , 同時也是當地地景的一部分 , 而不是只剩下一部分的地景 , 而不是只剩下一部分的地景 。
cows with a view .	牛仔細看 。
steaming piles of humus .	哈姆斯•哈姆斯 。
this is basically bringing the whole thing together .	基本上就是把整個東西放在一起 。
and this is a community project i visited recently in toronto .	這是我最近在倫敦的社區計畫 。
it's a greenhouse , where kids get told all about food and growing their own food .	這是個綠色的食物 , 孩子們都能告訴所有食物 , 孩子們都會被告知食物 。
here is a plant called kevin , or maybe it's a plant belonging to a kid called kevin . i don't know .	這裡有個植物叫做kevin , 我不知道 。
but anyway , these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important .	但 , 無論如何 , 這些計畫都是極端重要的 。
so sitopia , for me , is really a way of seeing .	對我來說 , 其實是一種看待方式 。
it's basically recognizing that sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere .	基本上 , 基本上是認知到西班牙都存在於小口袋裡 。
the trick is to join them up , to use food as a way of seeing .	技巧是要加入它們 , 用食物作為一種看法 。
and if we do that , we're going to stop seeing cities as big , metropolitan , unproductive blobs , like this .	如果我們這樣做 , 我們就會停止看到城市 , 像這樣 。
we're going to see them more like this , as part of the productive , organic framework of which they are inevitably a part , symbiotically connected .	我們會看到它們更像這樣 , 牠們有機架構 , 牠們有機架構 , 牠們有機架構 , 牠們有機架構 , 牠們有機框架 , 牠們有機框架 , 牠們有機框架 , 不可避免的 。
but of course , that's not a great image either , because we need not to be producing food like this anymore .	但當然 , 這不是很棒的影像 , 因為我們需要不要把食物變成像這樣 。
we need to be thinking more about permaculture , which is why i think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing .	我們需要去思考更多的思維 , 那就是為什麼我認為這張圖像我認為這張圖像我在思考我們需要做的事 。
it's a reconceptualization of the way food shapes our lives .	這是食物形狀的概念 。
the best image i know of this is from 650 years ago .	最好的影像 , 就是從650年前 。
it's ambrogio lorenzetti's " allegory of good government . "	它是 「 美好政府 」 的 「 全美好政府 」 。
it's about the relationship between the city and the countryside .	城市和城市之間的關係 。
and i think the message of this is very clear .	我認為這很明顯的訊息
if the city looks after the country , the country will look after the city .	如果城市看起來是城市後 , 國家會看看這個城市 。
and i want us to ask now , what would ambrogio lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today ?	我希望我們來問 , 如果他畫畫這張圖片時 , 如果他畫了這張圖片呢 ?
what would an allegory of good government look like today ?	今天 , 政府的樣貌是什麼樣子呢 ?
because i think it's an urgent question .	因為我認為這是一個緊急的問題 。
it's one we have to ask , and we have to start answering .	我們必須開始回答這個問題 。
we know we are what we eat .	我們知道我們是吃什麼 。
we need to realize that the world is also what we eat .	我們需要了解到世界是我們所吃的 。
but if we take that idea , we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better .	但如果我們把食物當作一個非常強大的工具來形塑世界 。
weeks from the charter for compassion launch , karen armstrong looks at religion's role in the 21st century: will its dogmas divide us ? or will it unite us for common good ? she reviews the catalysts that can drive the world's faiths to rediscover the golden rule .	在21世紀末期的主題上 , 凱倫•阿斯特•阿姆斯特•阿斯特•阿斯特•阿斯特•斯特斯特在21世紀的主題是: 「 誰 ? 」 或 「 讓世界的信仰 ? 」 或 「 讓世界的信仰 ? 」 讓世界的信仰 , 讓世界的信仰 ?
god , ted prize , global issues , politics , religion , tedglobal2009 , violence	上帝 , tedglobal2009年 , tedglobal2009年 , tedglobal2009年 。
karen armstrong: let's revive the golden rule	克里斯蒂:我們來證明黃金法則 。
for years i've been feeling frustrated , because as a religious historian , i've become acutely aware of the centrality of compassion in all the major world faiths .	數年來 , 我一直感到沮喪 , 因為當宗教歷史學家 , 我變得很沮喪 , 因為身為宗教歷史學家 , 我會感到沮喪 。
every single one of them has evolved their own version of what's been called the golden rule .	每個人都演化出自己的版本叫做黃金法則 。
sometimes it comes in a positive version " always treat all others as you'd like to be treated yourself . "	有時 , 它會出現在一個正面的版本中 , 「 總是對待你自己 。 」
and equally important is the negative version " don't do to others what you would not like them to do to you . "	同樣重要的是負面版本的 「 別 」 , 你不喜歡他們去做 。
look into your own heart , discover what it is that gives you pain and then refuse , under any circumstance whatsoever , to inflict that pain on anybody else .	看看你的心臟 , 發現它是什麼樣子 , 讓你痛苦 , 不管你在任何情況下的痛苦 , 然後拒絕 , 在任何情況下 , 在任何情況下的情況下 。
and people have emphasized the importance of compassion , not just because it sounds good , but because it works .	人們強調了同情心的重要性 , 不只是因為它聽起來很好 。
people have found that when they have implemented the golden rule as confucius said , " all day and every day , " not just a question of doing your good deed for the day and then returning to a life of greed and egotism , but to do it all day and every day , you dethrone yourself from the center of your world , put another there , and you transcend yourself .	人們發現 , 當他們改善了 「 每天 」 的 「 日常 」 , 不再只是一個問題 , 把你自己帶進去 , 去做好事 , 直到你自己 , 去做好事 , 直到你每天 , 去做好事 , 直到你在世界各地 , 去做好事 , 然後回到你人生中 , 直到你自己 。
and it brings you into the presence of what's been called god , nirvana , rama , tao .	它會帶你進入 「 神 」 、 「 神 」 、 「 神 」 、 「 神 」 、 「 神 」 、 「 神 」 、 「 神 」 。
something that goes beyond what we know in our egobound existence .	在我們所知的宇宙中 , 我們所知道的存在 。
but you know you'd never know it a lot of the time , that this was so central to the religious life .	但你知道你永遠不會知道 , 這對宗教生命的重要性來說是如此 。
because with a few wonderful exceptions , very often when religious people come together , religious leaders come together , they're arguing about abstruse doctrines or uttering a council of hatred or inveighing against homosexuality or something of that sort .	因為有幾個美好的觀念 , 通常 , 宗教的人聚在一起 , 宗教的領導人聚在一起 , 他們會爭論 , 宗教的主題 , 通常是宗教人聚在一起 , 通常是宗教人聚在一起 , 宗教的領導人聚在一起 , 宗教的人聚在一起 , 宗教的人聚在一起 , 通常是宗教的主題 。
often people don't really want to be compassionate .	通常人們並不想要同情心 。
i sometimes see when i'm speaking to a congregation of religious people a sort of mutinous expression crossing their faces because people often want to be right instead .	有時候我會看到當我和宗教人說話時 , 有時會看到當我說話時 , 他們面對面孔是因為人們常常想做 。
and that of course defeats the object of the exercise .	當然 , 它會影響到運動的過程 。
now why was i so grateful to ted ?	為什麼我很感謝ted ?
because they took me very gently from my booklined study and brought me into the 21st century , enabling me to speak to a much , much wider audience than i could have ever conceived .	因為他們帶我到21世紀 , 讓我成為21世紀 , 將我帶到21世紀 , 讓我更廣泛聽眾 , 比我更廣泛的聽眾 。
because i feel an urgency about this .	因為我覺得很緊急 。
if we don't manage to implement the golden rule globally , so that we treat all peoples , wherever and whoever they may be , as though they were as important as ourselves , i doubt that we'll have a viable world to hand on to the next generation .	如果我們不準則規則全球性的金規 , 我們就知道 , 只要我們不準則 , 不管他們在哪裡 , 我懷疑 , 我們就有了這個世代 。
the task of our time , one of the great tasks of our time , is to build a global society , as i said , where people can live together in peace .	我們的任務之一是建立一個全球性的社會 , 如同我所說的 , 人們可以和平一起生活 。
and the religions that should be making a major contribution are instead seen as part of the problem .	而宗教應該要做出重大的貢獻 , 而不是被視為問題 。
and of course it's not just religious people who believe in the golden rule .	當然 , 這不僅是宗教信仰的人們相信黃金法則 。
this is the source of all morality , this imaginative act of empathy , putting yourself in the place of another .	這是所有道德的源頭 , 想像力同理心 , 把自己放在另一邊 。
and so we have a choice , it seems to me .	所以我們有選擇 , 對我來說 。
we can either go on bringing out or emphasizing the dogmatic and intolerant aspects of our faith , or we can go back to the rabbis . rabbi hillel , the older contemporary of jesus , who , when asked by a pagan to sum up the whole of jewish teaching while he stood on one leg , said , " that which is hateful to you , do not do to your neighbor .	我們可以回來 , 回到拉比希爾 , 奧勒•希爾 , 奧利•阿拉伯比希爾 , 奧利•阿拉伯比希爾 , 說: 「 這對你的鄰居來說是很榮幸的 。 」
that is the torah and everything else is only commentary . "	這是唯一的評論 。 」
and the rabbis and the early fathers of the church who said that any interpretation of scripture that bred hatred and disdain was illegitimate .	拉比斯和教堂的教堂說過任何詮釋的文字是非法的 。
and we need to revive that spirit .	我們需要修復這個精神 。
and it's not just going to happen because a spirit of love wafts us down .	不只會發生 , 因為精神愛的靈感會發生 。
we have to make this happen , and we can do it with the modern communications that ted has introduced .	我們必須這樣做 , 並且我們能用現代的溝通方式來做 , 並且我們能用現代溝通方式來做 。
already i've been tremendously heartened at the response of all our partners .	我已經一直在對我們的夥伴的反應 。
in singapore , we have a group going to use the charter to heal divisions recently that have sprung up in singaporean society , and some members of the parliament want to implement it politically .	在聯合國 , 我們有一群人會在soporean網站上 , 我們有一群會議員 , 會議員會用這個標準來分析 , 讓它的成員 , 會議上有一群人 , 來參加國會議員 。
in malaysia , there is going to be an art exhibition in which leading artists are going to be taking people , young people , and showing them that compassion also lies at the root of all art .	在malaysia中 , 藝術展覽 , 讓藝術展開藝術展覽 , 讓藝術展開藝術展覽 , 讓藝術展現出藝術展覽 , 讓藝術展現出藝術展覽 , 讓藝術展現出藝術展覽 。
throughout europe , the muslim communities are holding events and discussions , are discussing the centrality of compassion in islam and in all faiths .	在歐洲 , 穆斯林團體會討論 , 在歐洲 , 穆斯林團體會議會討論 , 穆斯林群體會討論 , 穆斯林團體會被討論 , 穆斯林群體都很緊張和討論 。
but it can't stop there . it can't stop with the launch .	但它無法停止 , 它無法停止 , 它無法停止 。
religious teaching , this is where we've gone so wrong , concentrating solely on believing abstruse doctrines .	宗教教導 , 我們已經錯了 , 不錯了 , 不錯 , 不錯了 。
religious teaching must always lead to action .	宗教教教必須總是領導行動 。
and i intend to work on this till my dying day .	我每天都在做這件事 。
and i want to continue with our partners to do two things educate and stimulate compassionate thinking .	我想要跟我們的夥伴一起做兩件事 , 和刺激的同情心思考 。
education because we've so dropped out of compassion .	教育是因為我們從同情心中獲得了同情心 。
people often think it simply means feeling sorry for somebody .	人們通常認為這只是對某人來說很痛苦 。
but of course you don't understand compassion if you're just going to think about it .	但當然你不了解同情心 , 如果你要去思考它 。
you also have to do it .	你也必須這麼做 。
i want them to get the media involved because the media are crucial in helping to dissolve some of the stereotypical views we have of other people , which are dividing us from one another .	我希望他們能參與媒體 , 因為媒體是很重要的 , 因為媒體是很重要的 , 因為媒體是很重要的 , 因為媒體是很重要的 , 因為媒體是關鍵的 , 我們有其他人 , 讓他們能得到媒體 。
the same applies to educators .	同樣的應用程式
i'd like youth to get a sense of the dynamism , the dynamic and challenge of a compassionate lifestyle .	我希望你們能感受到那種動態和挑戰 , 充滿生命的動態和挑戰 。
and also see that it demands acute intelligence , not just a gooey feeling .	同時也看到它的需求 , 不僅僅是一種喜悅的感覺 。
i'd like to call upon scholars to explore the compassionate theme in their own and in other people's traditions .	我想要稱之為 「 學者 」 , 去探索他們的同情心 , 以及其他人的傳統 。
and perhaps above all , to encourage a sensitivity about uncompassionate speaking , so that because people have this charter , whatever their beliefs or lack of them , they feel empowered to challenge uncompassionate speech , disdainful remarks from their religious leaders , their political leaders , from the captains of industry .	首先 , 要鼓勵一個深深的信仰 , 不管是誰 , 或缺乏他們 , 因為人們有了他們的信仰 , 或缺乏他們 , 因為人們有了他們的信仰 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 , 因為人們有了他們的信仰、他們的信仰、他們的信仰 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 。
because we can change the world , we have the ability .	因為我們可以改變世界 , 我們有能力 。
i would never have thought of putting the charter online .	我從來沒有想過 「 網際網路 」 。
i was still stuck in the old world of a whole bunch of boffins sitting together in a room and issuing yet another arcane statement .	我仍在一整堆的舊世界裡 , 坐著一整堆的老闆 , 坐在房間裡 , 坐著一整堆的老闆 , 說服了 。
and ted introduced me to a whole new way of thinking and presenting ideas .	ted引導我去一個全新的思考和想法 。
because that is what is so wonderful about ted .	因為這對ted來說是如此美妙的
in this room , all this expertise , if we joined it all together , we could change the world .	在這個房間裡 , 如果我們加入它 , 我們就能改變世界 。
and of course the problems sometimes seem insuperable .	當然 , 問題有時似乎很容易 。
but i'd just like to quote , finish at the end with a reference to a british author , an oxford author whom i don't quote very often , c . s . lewis .	但我想要引述一位英國作者 , 一個英國作者 , 一個英國的作者 , 我沒說過這句話 , 最後 , 一個英國的作者 , 英國作者 , 我沒說過 。
but he wrote one thing that stuck in my mind ever since i read it when i was a schoolgirl .	但他寫了一件事 , 從我讀到學校學時 , 他寫了一件事 。
it's in his book " the four loves . "	在他的書《四個愛》 。
he said that he distinguished between erotic love , when two people gaze , spellbound , into each other's eyes .	他說他在愛情中 , 當兩個人聚在一起時 , 彼此之間的眼睛 。
and then he compared that to friendship , when two people stand side by side , as it were , shoulder to shoulder , with their eyes fixed on a common goal .	接著 , 他和兩個人站在一個共同的目標上 。
we don't have to fall in love with each other , but we can become friends .	我們不需要愛彼此 , 但我們可以變成朋友 。
and i am convinced .	我很信心 。
i felt it very strongly during our little deliberations at vevey , that when people of all different persuasions come together , working side by side for a common goal , differences melt away .	我覺得非常強烈 , 在我們小時候 , 人們互相合作 , 共同的目標 , 共同的目標 , 彼此共同的目標 , 共同的目標 , 共同的點子 。
and we learn amity .	我們學到了 。
and we learn to live together and to get to know one another .	我們學習如何一起學習 , 一起一起學習 , 才能知道彼此 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家
david macaulay relives the winding and sometimes surreal journey toward the completion of rome antics , his illustrated homage to the historic city .	大衛馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬山大衛馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡羅馬卡爾獎
macarthur grant , art , arts , book , cities , communication , culture , design , entertainment , humor , storytelling	macarthurgant藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、文化、設計、娛樂
i draw to better understand things .	我畫出更好的理解事物 。
sometimes i make a lot of drawings and i still don't understand what it is i'm drawing .	有時我畫了很多畫畫 , 我仍然不知道它是什麼 。
those of you who are comfortable with digital stuff and even smug about that relationship might be amused to know that the guy who is best known for " the way things work , " while preparing for part of a panel for called understanding , spent two days trying to get his laptop to communicate with his new cd burner .	你們當中有許多人都很熟悉 , 花了兩天的時間試圖把他的筆電交給 「 工作 」 的部分 , 像是 「 工作 」 的部分 , 讓他用他的新作法來溝通 。
who knew about extension managers ?	誰知道外部管理者呢 ?
i've always managed my own extensions so it never even occurred to me to read the instructions , but i did finally figure it out . i had to figure it out , because along with the invitation came the frightening reminder that there would be no projector , so bringing those carousels would no longer be necessary but some alternate form of communication would .	我一直經常管理我自己的表演 , 但我終於發現了 , 但我發現了 , 我不得不想 , 因為在意外的情況下 , 那些車子會不會出現 , 我必須想出 , 因為在意見的過程中 , 那些卡路會不會出現 , 我必須想出 , 因為 , 那些卡路上 , 不一定會出現 , 但最後我發現了 , 但最後我發現了 。
now , i could talk about something that i'm known for , something that would be particularly appropriate for many of the more technically minded people here , or i could talk about something i really care about .	現在 , 我可以談到我真正關心的事情 , 可以談到一些我真正關心的事情 。
i decided to go with the latter .	我決定要去拉特 。
i'm going to talk about rome .	我要談羅馬 。
now , why would i care about rome , particularly ?	為什麼我會在乎羅馬 ?
well , i went to rhode island school of design in the second half of the '60s to study architecture .	嗯 , 我去研究建築學院的六十年代 。
i was lucky enough to spend my last year , my fifth year , in rome as a student . it changed my life .	我很幸運 , 花了我一年的時間 , 十五年 , 去年 , 我很幸運 , 去年 , 我很幸運 , 改變我的人生 。
not the least reason was the fact that i had spent those first four years living at home , driving into risd everyday , driving back .	不是最好的原因是 , 我花了四年的時間生活在家裡 , 開車回來 。
i missed the '60s . i read about them ; i understand they were pretty interesting . i missed them , but i did spend that extraordinary year in rome , and it's a place that is never far from my mind .	我花了60年代 , 我讀到他們 , 我知道他們很有趣 。 我很有趣 , 但我在羅馬學院 , 他們很有趣 , 但我在羅馬學院 , 他們很有趣 。 我花了60年代 , 我知道他們很有趣 。 我知道他們很有趣 。 我花了幾年的時間 。
so , whenever given an opportunity , i try to do something in it or with it or for it .	所以 , 只要有機會 , 我試著做某件事 , 或它 。
i also make drawings to help people understand things .	我也讓人們了解事物 。
things that i want them to believe i understand .	我希望他們相信我了解 。
and that's what i do as an illustrator , that's my job .	這就是我的工作 。
so , i'm going to show you some pictures of rome .	我要給你們看一些照片 。
i've made a lot of drawings of rome over the years .	我花了很多幾年的時間來做 。
these are just drawings of rome . i get back as often as possible i need to .	這些是羅馬的畫廊 , 我回來 , 通常可能需要做 。
all different materials , all different styles , all different times , drawings from sketchbooks looking at the details of rome .	所有不同種類的細節 , 各種不同顏色的細節 , 各種不同顏色的細節 。
part of the reason i'm showing you these is that it sort of helps illustrate this process i go through of trying to figure out what it is i feel about rome and why i feel it .	我給你們看這段影片的原因是 , 為了找出我在想出什麼樣的原因 , 是因為它能幫助我解釋它的原因 , 是因為它能幫助我解釋它的原因 。
these are sketches of some of the little details .	這些是一些細節的細節 。
rome is a city full of surprises .	羅馬是個城市充滿驚訝
i mean , we're talking about unusual perspectives , we're talking about narrow little winding streets that suddenly open into vast , sundrenched piazzas never , though , piazzas that are not humanly scaled .	我的意思是 , 我們正在討論一些非人類的觀點 , 我們正在討論一些不尋常的觀點 , 我們正在討論一些不尋常的觀點 , 我們正在討論一些不尋常的觀點 , 我們正在討論一些非人類的悲劇 。
part of the reason for that is the fact that they grew up organically .	原因是 , 它們長大了 。
that amazing juxtaposition of old and new , the bits of light that come down between the buildings that sort of create a map that's traveling above your head of usually blue especially in the summer compared to the map that you would normally expect to see of conventional streets .	這種令人驚訝的地圖 , 和新型的光源 , 會形成一個地圖 , 以往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往往的藍色
and i began to think about how i could communicate this in book form .	我開始思考如何在書上傳播 。
how could i share my sense of rome , my understanding of rome ?	我如何能分享我的心思 , 了解羅馬 ?
and i'm going to show you a bunch of dead ends , basically .	我會給你們看一堆死刑 。
the primary reason for all these dead ends is when if you're not quite sure where you're going , you're certainly not going to get there with any kind of efficiency .	所有這些死亡的主要原因是 , 如果你不確定你在哪裡 , 你一定不會得到任何效率 。
here's a little map . and i thought of maps at the beginning ; maybe i should just try and do a little atlas of my favorite streets and connections in rome .	這是一張小地圖 , 或許我最喜歡街道和聯繫在羅馬 。
and here's a line of text that actually evolves from the exhaust of a scooter zipping across the page .	這裡有一條線條文字 , 把這條文字在頁面上演化 。
here that same line of text wraps around a fountain in an illustration that can be turned upside down and read both ways .	在這張圖片上 , 可以被翻轉 , 並讀兩條路線 。
maybe that line of text could be a story to help give some human aspect to this .	也許這條文字可以幫助給一些人的觀點 。
maybe i should get away from this map completely , and really be honest about wanting to show you my favorite bits and pieces of rome and simply kick a soccer ball in the air which happens in so many of the squares in the city and let it bounce off of things . and i'll simply explain what each of those things is that the soccer ball hits .	或許我應該從這張地圖上看到最喜愛的小小球場 , 我很高興地表演出我最喜歡的部分 , 讓它從這張地圖上看 , 我很清楚地告訴你們 , 我最喜歡的點子 , 和羅馬 , 讓它在空中發生 , 並且讓它消失 。
that seemed like a sort of a cheap shot .	看起來像是一個便宜的機票 。
but even though i just started this presentation , this is not the first thing that i tried to do and i was getting sort of desperate .	但儘管我剛剛開始這個演講 , 這不是我第一次想做的事 , 我很沮喪 。
eventually , i realized that i had really no content that i could count on , so i decided to move towards packaging .	最終 , 我意識到 , 我根本沒有意料 , 所以我決定要向前進去 。
i mean , it seems to work for a lot of things .	我的意思是 , 似乎有許多東西 。
so i thought a little box set of four small books might do the trick .	所以我想一個小盒子的小盒子 , 三個小盒子的小盒子 。
but one of the ideas that emerged from some of those sketches was the notion of traveling through rome in different vehicles at different speeds in order to show the different aspects of rome .	但其中一個想法之一是來自於羅馬的觀點 , 以不同的角度來呈現不同的觀點 , 來呈現不同的觀點 。
sort of an overview of rome and the plan that you might see from a dirigible .	大概是從一個不可思議的角度來看 。
quick snapshots of things you might see from a speeding motor scooter , and very slow walking through rome , you might be able to study in more detail some of the wonderful surfaces and whatnot that you come across .	很慢慢的走路徑 , 你可能可以在地面上看到 , 慢慢走路 , 你可能可以研究更多細節 , 非常慢的速度 , 你可能可以研究更多細節 , 非常慢的速度 。
anyways , i went back to the dirigible notion .	總之 , 我回到了那場景象 。
went to alberto santosdumont .	去了阿伯托•桑托森 。
found one of his dirigibles that had enough dimensions so i could actually use it as a scale that i would then juxtapose with some of the things in rome .	有足夠的維度 , 我可以用它來分析它 , 讓它有足夠的空間 。
this thing would be flying over or past or be parked in front of , but it would be like having a ruler sort of travel through the pages without being a ruler .	這東西會被公開 , 但它就像是飛行的飛行器 , 不是規律 。
not that you know how long number 11 actually is , but you would be able to compare number 11 against the pantheon with number 11 against the baths of caracalla , and so on and so forth . if you were interested .	不是你知道 , 如果有感興趣 , 你就會比起數十1個數字十11 。 如果你有興趣 。
this is beatrix . she has a dog named ajax , she has purchased a dirigible a small dirigible she's assembling the structure , ajax is sniffing for holes in the balloon before they set off .	這是貝特里斯 , 她有一名叫阿jax , 她有一名叫 「 jax 」 , 她的確有了一大堆積木 , 以 「 阿京 」 的 「 大量 」 的形狀 , 把它們放棄 。
she launches this thing above the spanish steps and sets off for an aerial tour of the city .	她在西班牙語階段 , 把這東西帶到城市裡 。
over the spanish steps we go .	在西班牙的西班牙階段
a nice way to show that river , that stream sort of pouring down the hill .	一個很棒的示範 , 就是河流 , 讓河流延伸到山丘 。
unfortunately , just across the road from it or quite close by is the column of marcus aurelius , and the diameter of the dirigible makes an impression , as you can see , as she starts trying to read the story that spirals around the column of marcus aurelius gets a little too close , nudges it .	不幸的是 , 當她開始嘗試閱讀這個故事時 , 西班牙洋洋洋的海岸線 , 直徑是馬克斯•阿里斯•卡斯•阿里斯 , 非常近的 , 正如你所見 , 她開始嘗試去讀這個故事 , 直徑是馬克斯•阿里斯 , 牠開始嘗試去讀這個故事 , 直徑是馬克斯•阿里斯 , 牠開始嘗試去讀這個故事 。
this gives me a chance to suggest to you the structure of the column of marcus aurelius , which is really no more than a pile of quarters high thick quarters . over the piazza of saint ignacio , completely ruining the symmetry , but that aside a spectacular place to visit .	這給我一個機會 , 建議你在巴西哥馬克斯的大樓中 , 大約是三分之一 , 不是一座堆積木頭的結構 , 不管是多麼美麗 , 不管是不錯的 , 完全是對稱的 。
a spectacular framework , inside of which you see , usually , extraordinary blue sky .	一個非常奇怪的藍色天空 。
over the pantheon and the 26foot diameter oculus .	直徑和26英尺高 。
she parks her dirigible , lowers the anchor rope and climbs down for a closer look inside .	她公開了她 , 下降的繩子 , 爬下去 , 更接近看 。
the text here is right side and upside down so that you are forced to turn the book around , and you can see it from ground point of view and from her point of view looking in the hole , getting a different kind of perspective , moving you around the space . particularly appropriate in a building that can contain perfectly a sphere dimensions of the diameter being the same as the distance from the center of the floor to the center of the oculus .	左邊是右邊的邊緣 , 你可以看到它從地面向下看 , 你可以看到它從地面的角度來看 , 以外的角度來看 , 你可以看到它從地面的角度來看 , 以外觀的角度來看 , 從地面的角度來看 , 從地面的角度來看 , 以外觀的角度來看 , 以外的角度來看 , 以外的角度來看 , 以外觀的角度來看 , 以外的角度來看 , 與其它的空間相同 。
unfortunately for her , the anchor line gets tangled around the feet of some boy scouts who are visiting the pantheon , and they are immediately yanked out and given an extraordinary but terrifying tour of some of the domes of rome , which would , from their point of view , naturally be hanging upside down .	不幸的是 , 他們馬上就坐下去 , 他們立刻被視為天空 , 很不幸地 , 他們馬上就站在那邊 , 而他們馬上就坐下了 , 不幸的是 , 他們馬上就開始了 , 而他們馬上就有了 , 不幸的是 , 他們馬上就開始了 。
they bail out as soon as they get to the top of saint ivo , that little spiral structure you see there .	當他們走到山頂的頂端時 , 你看到的那個小小的螺旋結構 。
she continues on her way over piazza navona .	她繼續在巴西亞薩納維納 。
notices a lot of activity at the tre scalini restaurant , is reminded that it is lunchtime and she's hungry .	注意到在trestrestrestrestrestrestreststrestrestrestrestrestrestrestrestrestrestrestrestrestrestrestrestre
they keep on motoring towards the campo de' fiori , which they soon reach . ajax the dog is put in a basket and lowered with a list of food into the marketplace , which flourishes there until about one in the afternoon , and then is completely removed and doesn't appear again until six or seven the following morning .	他們繼續向前進一步 , 直到六到六到七天早上 , 再一次 , 再一次 , 再一次地下午 , 直到六到六到七點 。
anyway , the pooch gets back to the dirigible with the stuff .	總之之外 , 帶著回來的原料 。
unfortunately , when she goes to unwrap the prosciutto , ajax makes a lunge for it .	不幸的是 , 當她走到不幸的情況下 , 阿賈克斯會讓它變得很不舒服 。
she's managed to save the prosciutto , but in the process she loses the tablecloth , which you can see flying away in the upper lefthand corner .	她是為了拯救原生 , 但在這個過程中 , 你能看到飛機在左邊的角落 。
they continue without their tablecloth , looking for a place to land this thing so that they can actually have lunch .	他們繼續沒有他們的桌子 , 去找一個地方 , 去找一個地方 , 去找一個地方 , 去實現它 。
they eventually discover a huge wall that's filled with small holes , ideal for docking a dirigible because you've got a place to tie up .	他們最終發現一個巨大的牆壁 , 充滿了小洞 , 因爲你有了一塊大牆 。
turns out to be the exterior wall that part of it that remains of the coliseum , so they park themselves there and have a terrific lunch and have a spectacular view .	結果是 , 他們公園的一部分 , 他們公園 , 把它們公開 , 讓它們公開 , 很棒的看法 。
at the end of lunch , they untie the anchor , they set off through the baths of caracalla and over the walls of the city and then an abandoned gatehouse and decide to take one more look at the pyramid of cestius , which has this lightning rod on top .	在午餐之後 , 他們會把這條路線放進去 , 把它放進去 , 去看看金字塔的金字塔 , 上面有了這條路線 。
unfortunately , that's a problem: they get a little too close , and when you're in a dirigible you have to be very careful about spikes .	不幸的是 , 問題是:它們變得非常小 , 不幸的是 , 問題是:它們變得非常小 。
so that sort of brings her little story to a conclusion .	所以她會把她小故事結合起來 。
marcello , on the other hand , is sort of a lazy guy , but he's not due at work until about noon .	另一方面 , 比例是很懶惰的人 , 但他不是在工作 ,
so , the alarm goes off and it's five to 12 or so .	所以 , 左右邊是五到十二 。
he gets up , leaps onto his scooter , races through the city past the church of santa maria della pace , down the alleys , through the streets that tourists may be wandering through , disturbing the quiet backstreet life of rome at every turn .	他走到路上 , 穿越街道 , 穿越過街道 , 穿越街道 , 走路的路線 , 走路的路線 , 走路的路線 , 走路的路線 , 以往往往往往往往前往 。
that speed with which he is moving , i hope i have suggested in this little image , which , again , can be turned around and read from both sides because there's text on the bottom and text on the top , one of which is upside down in this image .	這張照片中 , 我希望我建議在這個圖片中 , 因為在這個圖片中 , 我希望我建議在這個圖片中 , 可以轉動 , 再次 , 可以轉動 , 再次 , 可以轉動 , 再次 , 可以轉動 , 再次 , 可以轉動 , 再次看到 。
so , he keeps on moving , approaching an unsuspecting waiter who is trying to deliver two plates of linguine in a delicate white wine clam sauce to diners who are sitting at a table just outside of a restaurant in the street .	所以 , 他保持坐在餐廳裡的餐廳 , 坐在桌子旁邊 , 坐在餐廳旁邊的白酒店 。
waiter catches on , but it's too late .	等等 , 但太遲了 。
and marcello keeps moving in his scooter .	馬克爾在他的雕刻中移動了 。
everything he sees from this point on is slightly affected by the linguine , but keeps on moving because this guy's got a job to do .	他看到的一切都從這個角度來看 , 因為這傢伙有一份工作 , 才能做到 。
removes some scaffolding . one of the reasons rome remains the extraordinary place it is that because of scaffolding and the determination to maintain the fabric , it is a city that continues to grow and adapt to the needs of the particular time in which it finds itself , or we find it .	移植了一些冰箱 , 原因是 , 羅馬的主要原因是 , 原因是 , 原因是 , 原因是 , 原因是 , 原因是 , 原因是 , 原因是 , 原因是 , 它會持續成長 , 並且適應它的需求 , 並且適應我們所看到的 。
right through the piazza della rotonda , in front of the pantheon again wreaking havoc and finally getting to work .	剛剛在巴西亞的巴西亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞茲亞區 , 最後才會去工作 。
marcello , as it turns out , is the driver of the number 64 bus , and if you've been on the number 64 bus , you know that it's driven with the same kind of exuberance as marcello demonstrated on his scooter .	馬克里斯 , 如果你在1964年 , 你就知道它是64公車的駕駛 , 你知道它是車輛的駕駛 , 車輛的車輛是64公車 , 你也知道它是平衡的高速公車 。
and finally carletto . you see his apartment in the upper lefthand corner .	最後 , 你看到他的公寓在左邊 。
he's looking at his table ; he's planning to propose this evening to his girlfriend of 40 years , and he wants it to be perfect .	他在尋找他的桌子 , 他希望它可以完美 。
he's got candles out , he's got flowers in the middle and he's trying to figure out where to put the plates and the glasses .	他有蠟燭 , 他花在中間 , 他在中間看到 , 把盒子和玻璃放進去 。
but he's not happy ; something's wrong .	但他不開心 , 錯了 。
the phone rings anyway , he's called to the palazzo .	電話響號 , 他叫做 「 帕拉薩 」 。
he saunters he saunters at a good clip , but as compared to all the traveling we've just seen , he's sauntering .	他在飛機上飛行 , 但 , 如同我們剛剛看到的 , 他是飛機 。
everybody knows carletto , because he's in entertainment , actually ; he's in television .	所有人都知道卡萊特 , 因為他是娛樂 , 因為他在電視上 。
he's actually in television repair , which is why people know him .	他其實在電視上出現 , 那就是為什麼人們知道他 。
so they all have his number .	所以他們都有他的數字 。
he arrives at the palazzo , arrives at the big front door .	他抵達在巴拉薩的前門 。
enters the courtyard and talks to the custodian , who tells him that there's been a disaster in the palazzo ; nobody's tvs are working and there's a big soccer game coming up , and the crowd is getting a little restless and a little nervous .	來到巴拉zo的演講 , 沒有人在巴拉zo ; 沒有人在巴拉薩 , 那裡有一場大型的餐廳 , 一個大型的球場 , 讓他注意到 , 那裡有一場大型的飛行器 , 一個大型的球場 。
he goes down to the basement and starts to check the wiring , and then gradually works his way up to the top of the building , apartment by apartment , checking every television , checking every connection , hoping to find out what this problem is .	他走到山頂上 , 開始檢查 , 檢查每個電視、檢查、檢查 , 檢查每個電視 , 看看這個問題 。
he works his way up , finally , the grand staircase and then a smaller staircase until he reaches the attic .	他成功了 , 直到他到達山樓梯 , 直到他到達 。
he opens the window of the attic , of course , and there's a tablecloth wrapped around the building's television antenna .	他打開窗戶 , 當然 , 還有一個桌子 , 上面有一座桌子 , 上面有一座桌子 , 上面有一座桌子 。
he removes it , the problems are solved , everybody in the palazzo is happy .	他解決了 , 所有人都在巴拉薩的麻煩 , 問題是解決的 。
and of course , he also solves his own problem .	當然 , 他也解決了自己的問題 。
all he has to do now , with a perfect table , is wait for her to arrive .	他現在要做的 , 只是等待她抵達 。
that was the first attempt , but it didn't seem substantial enough to convey whatever it was i wanted to convey about rome .	這是第一個嘗試 , 但它似乎不夠精準 , 但它似乎沒有足夠的限制 , 來談羅馬 。
so i thought , well , i'll just do piazzas , and i'll get inside and underneath and i'll show these things growing and show why they're shaped the way they are and so on .	所以我想 , 嗯 , 我會把它們放進來 , 來看看它們如何形狀它們的形狀 , 等等 。
and then i thought , that's too complicated . no , i'll just take my favorite bits and pieces and i'll put them inside the pantheon but keep the scale , so you can see the top of sant'ivo and the pyramid of cestius and the tempietto of bramante all side by side in this amazing space .	然後我覺得這太複雜了
now that's one drawing , so i thought maybe it's time for piranesi to meet escher .	這是一幅畫作 , 所以我想 , 也許是花了時間 , 來參加會議院 。
you see that i'm beginning to really lose control here and also hope .	你看到我開始真的失去控制 , 也希望 。
there's a very thin blue line of exhaust that sort of runs through this thing that would be kind of the trail that holds it all together .	有一條非常薄的藍色線條 , 使它變得非常薄藍色線 。
then i thought , " wait a minute , what am i doing ? "	然後我在想: 「 等一下 , 我在做什麼 ? 」
a book is not only a neat way of collecting and storing information , it's a series of layers .	書並不只能收集收集和儲存資訊 , 它是一系列的 。
i mean , you always peel one layer off another ; we think of them as pages , doing it a certain way .	我是說 , 你總是把它們當成頁面 , 以某種方式來做 。
but think of them as layers . i mean , rome is a place of layers horizontal layers , vertical layers and i thought , well just peeling off a page would allow me to if i got you thinking about it the right way would allow me to sort of show you the depth of layers .	但想想它們是層層層層的層層 , 我意思是 , 羅馬是個層層的層層 , 羅馬是位於層層的層層 , 我意思是 , 羅馬是位於層層的層次層面 。 我意思是 , 羅馬是位於層層的層次層次 。
the stucco on the walls of most of the buildings in rome covers the scars ; the scars of centuries of change as these structures have been adapted rather than being torn down .	在羅馬河的建築物中 , 大部分建築物的建築物都被適用 , 大部分建築物都被適應 , 而不是被打破 。
if i do a foldout page on the lefthand side and let you just unfold it , you see behind it what i mean by scar tissue .	如果我在左邊的左手邊 , 你就會看到我所謂的 「 傷害組織 」 。
you can see that in 1635 , it became essential to make smaller windows because the bad guys were coming or whatever .	你可以看到 , 在1635年 , 它變得更小窗戶 , 因為壞傢伙要來做小窗戶 。
adaptations all get buried under the stucco .	適應力都被埋葬 。
i could peel out a page of this palazzo to show you what's going on inside of it .	我可以把這張照片展示給你看 。
but more importantly , i could also show you what it looks like at the corner of one of those magnificent buildings with all the massive stone blocks , or the fake stone blocks done with brick and stucco , which is more often the case .	更重要的是 , 我可以給你們看 , 看看它看起來像在哪裡的石塊磚塊 , 或蘋果石磚塊的石塊 , 和石磚塊塊的石塊 , 更重要的是 。
so it becomes slightly threedimensional .	所以它變得有點三維 。
i could take you down one of those narrow little streets into one of those surprising piazzas by using a double gate fold double foldout page which , if you were like me reading a popup book as a child , you hopefully stick your head into .	我可以把你的頭帶進一步的小街道上 , 把你的頭放進一座小街道上 , 如果你喜歡我閱讀一本書 , 像我閱讀一本書 , 你希望能把你的頭放進去 。
you wrap the pages around your head and are in that piazza for that brief period of time .	你把頁面放在你的頭上 , 正是那段短暫的時代 。
and i've really not done anything much more complicated than make foldout pages .	我沒有做任何更複雜的東西 , 比摺紙更複雜 。
but then i thought , maybe i could be simpler here .	但我想 , 也許我可以簡單 。
let's look at the pantheon and the piazza della rotonda in front of it .	咱們來看看巴拉•羅頓達 , 和巴薩•羅頓達 。
here's a book completely wide open .	這是一本書完全開放 。
ok , if i don't open the book the whole way , if i just open it 90 degrees , we're looking down the front of the pantheon , and we're looking sort of at the top , more or less down on the square .	好吧 , 如果我開放90度 , 我們就開始看前面的前面 , 看前面 , 更不開放它 。
and if i turn the book the other way , we're looking across the square at the front of the pantheon .	如果我把這本書換出來 , 我們就會看到平方的平方 。
no foldouts , no tricks just a book that isn't open the whole way .	沒有摺疊 , 沒有摺疊 , 沒有摺疊 。
that seemed promising . i thought , maybe i'll do it inside and i can even combine the foldouts with the only partially opened book .	我覺得 , 或許我可以把摺疊疊起來 , 只能把摺疊疊起來 , 只能把摺疊疊起來 。
so we get inside the pantheon and it grows and so on and so forth .	所以 , 我們在內部長大 , 讓它成長 , 等等 。
and i thought , maybe i'm on the right track , but it sort of lost its human quality .	我想 , 也許我是對的 , 但它卻失去了人類的品質 。
so i went back to the notion of story , which is always a good thing to have if you're trying to get people to pay attention to a book and pick up information along the way .	所以 , 我回來談談這個故事 , 很棒的是 , 如果你試著讓人們注意到一本書 , 並且選擇資訊 。
" pigeon's progress " struck me as a catchy title .	「 pigeon的進步 」 把我當作一個技巧 。
if it was a homing pigeon , it would be called " homer's odyssey . "	如果它是 「 家人 」 的理論 , 它會叫做 「 家人的樂趣 」 。
but it was the journey of the . . .	但這就是這個旅程 。
i mean , if a title works , use it . but it would be a journey that went through rome and showed all the things that i like about rome .	我的意思是 , 如果一個旅程可以用它 , 但它會是一趟旅程 , 用它來做 , 但它會成為我喜歡羅馬的旅程 。
it's a pigeon sitting on top of a church .	這是一間教堂的教堂 。
goes off during the day and does normal pigeon stuff . comes back , the whole place is covered with scaffolding and green netting and there's no way this pigeon can get home .	晚上 , 在天空中 , 飛機和綠色的網絡 , 完全沒有辦法回家 。
so it's a homeless pigeon now and it's going to have to find another place to live , and that allows me to go through my catalog of favorite things , and we start with the tall ones and so on .	所以它是無家無家無家可歸的 , 然後我們就開始了 , 這樣我們就要找到另一個地方 。
maybe it has to go back and live with family members ; that's not always a good thing , but it does sort of bring pigeons together again .	或許要回到家庭成員 , 不是總是好事 , 但它會再次重覆 。
and i thought , that's sort of interesting , but maybe there's a person who should be involved in this in some way .	我想 , 這很有趣 , 但也許有一個人應該要參與這一點 。
so i kind of came up with this old guy who spends his life looking after sick pigeons .	所以 , 我有點像他在生長的老人 , 他花了一生的時間去看病 。
he'll go anywhere to get them dangerous places and whatnot and they become really friends with this guy , and learn to do tricks for him and entertain him at lunchtime and stuff like that .	他會去哪裡 , 去找他 , 去找他 , 去找他 , 去找他 , 去找他 , 去找他 , 去找他 , 去找他 , 去找他 , 去找他 , 去找他 , 去找他 , 去找他 , 去找他 , 去找他 。
there's a real bond that develops between this old man and these pigeons .	在這個古老的老人和這些鴿子之間的確有一種真正的骨頭 。
but unfortunately he gets sick . he gets really sick at the end of the story .	但不幸的是 , 他會生病 , 他很生病 。
he's taught them to spell his name , which is aldo .	他被教導他們把他的名字叫作 「 魔鬼 」 。
they show up one day after three or four days of not seeing him he lives in this little garret and they spell his name and fly around .	在三到四天中 , 他們向前看他 , 沒有看到他在這個小小的洞穴裡 , 把他的名字和飛機飛行 。
and he finally gets enough strength together to climb up the ladder onto the roof , and all the pigeons , a la red balloon , are there waiting for him and they carry him off over the walls of the city .	他終於有足夠的力量 , 把他放在屋頂上 , 把他放在屋頂上 , 然後他們把他放在屋頂上 , 在那裡等著他 , 把他放在屋頂上 。
and i forgot to mention this: whenever he lost a pigeon , he would take that pigeon out beyond the walls of the city .	我忘記說:當他失敗了 , 他會把那個城市的牆壁放在城市的牆壁 。
in the old roman custom , the dead were never buried within the walls .	在舊羅馬的房間裡 , 死人從來沒有埋葬在牆壁上 。
and i thought that's a really cheery story .	我覺得這是一個真的很棒的故事 。
. that's really going to go a long way .	這真的很長 。
so anyway , i went through . . . and again , if packaging doesn't work and if the stories aren't going anywhere , i just come up with titles and hope that a title will sort of kick me off in the right direction .	總之 , 我走過來 , 不管我在正確方向的方向上 , 我會把我放棄 。
and sometimes it does focus me enough and i'll even do a title page .	有時 , 我會把焦點放在我一邊 。
so , these are all title pages that eventually led me to the solution i settled on , which is the story of a young woman who sends a message on a homing pigeon she lives outside the walls of the city of rome to someone in the city .	所以 , 這些故事是一位年輕婦女的故事 , 將我帶給一個小朋友 , 把我送到一個訊息 , 成為一個年輕婦女 , 她在城市裡的路上傳遞一個訊息 。
and the pigeon is flying down above the appian way here .	飛行器在蘋果上飛行 。
you can see the tombs and pines and so on and so forth along the way .	你可以看到 , 沿著路線上升 , 等等 。
if you see the red line , you are seeing the trail of the pigeon ; if you don't see the red line , you are the pigeon .	如果你看紅色線 , 你就會看到紅線 , 如果你看紅線 , 你就會看到紅線 。
and it becomes necessary and possible , at this point , to try to convey what that sense would be like of flying over the city without actually moving .	這樣就算是飛行的城市 , 不管如何飛行 , 來到這一點 , 才能讓它變得更有意義 。
past the pyramid of cestius these will seem very familiar to you , even if you haven't been to rome recently past the gatehouse .	過去的金字塔看起來很熟悉你 , 即使你不曾在過去的金字塔 , 即使你沒去過這個禮拜 。
this is something that's a little bit unusual .	這是有點不尋常的事情 。
this pigeon does something that most homing pigeons do not do: it takes the scenic route , which was a device that i felt was necessary to actually extend this book beyond about four pages .	這種鴿子是很不可思議的 , 我感覺到這本書 , 不是:它能把這本書延伸到四頁 。
so , we circle around the coliseum , past the church of santa maria in cosmedin and the temple of hercules towards the river .	所以 , 我們在聖塔瑪麗亞的聖塔瑪麗亞的海岸 , 和神殿的聖塔瑪麗亞 , 來到河流 。
we almost collide with the cornice of the palazzo farnese designed by michelangelo , built of stone taken from the coliseum narrow escape .	我們幾乎是米開朗基羅 , 由米開朗基羅建造石頭 , 由米開朗基羅 , 由米開朗基羅所設計的 。
we swoop down over the campo de' fiori .	我們在佛羅里的馬上 。
this is one of those things i show to my students because it's a complete bastardization a denial of any rules of perspective .	這是我給學生的看法 , 因為它是一個完全的基礎 。
the only rule of perspective that i think matters is if it looks believable , you've succeeded .	我認為唯一的規則是 , 如果你成功了 , 你就成功了 。
but you try and figure out where the vanishing points meet here ; a couple are on mars and a couple of others in cremona .	但你試著找出 「 火星 」 和幾位在cremona 。
but into the piazza in front of santa maria della pace , where invariably a soccer game is going on , and we're hit by a soccer ball .	但在聖塔瑪麗亞的亞洲山區 , 一個足球球的前面 , 我們就在聖塔馬利亞 。
now this is a terrible illustration of being hit by a soccer ball .	現在這是個很可怕的假象 , 來到一個可怕的假裝 。
i have all the pieces: there's santa maria della pace , there's a soccer ball , there's a little bit of a bird's wing nothing's happening , so i had to rethink it .	我有一座小小的鳥類的翅膀 , 沒有任何東西 , 所以我必須重新思考它 。
and if you do want to see santa maria della pace , these books are really flexible , incredibly interactive just turn it around and look at it the other way .	如果你想要看到聖塔瑪麗亞•卡•沃爾亞 , 這些書是非常有彈性的 , 不可思議的 , 這些書是非常有彈性的 , 不可思議的 。
through the alley , we can see the impact is captured in the red line .	通過這條線 , 我們可以看到影響在紅色線上 。
and then bird manages to pull itself together past this medieval tower one of the few remaining medieval towers towards the church of sant'agnese and around the dome looking down into piazza navona which we've already mentioned and seen and flown over a couple of times ; there's the bernini statue of the four rivers and then past the wonderful borromini sant'ivo , stopping just long enough on the 26foot diameter oculus of the pantheon to catch our breath .	接著 , 我們已經看到了 , 和我們剛剛剛剛剛剛提到的巴西亞茲海峽谷 , 我們已經看到了 , 並且花了幾次時間 , 來到巴西哥海峽谷的海岸線上 , 到巴西哥山區的三角洲 , 來到巴西哥山區的三角洲 , 在那裡 , 我們已經看到了 , 我們已經提到了 , 我們已經看到了 , 並且花了幾次時間 , 我們已經被提到 , 我們已經看到了 , 並且花了幾次 。
and then we can swoop inside and around ; and because we're flying , we don't really have to worry about gravity at this particular moment in time , so this drawing can be oriented in any way on the page .	然後我們可以隨時轉換 , 我們不需要擔心重力 , 因為我們是飛行 , 我們不需要擔心重力在那一刻 。
we get a little exuberant as we pass gesu ; it's not surprising to sort of mimic the architecture in this way .	我們在這種情況下 , 看起來不令人訝異 , 看起來不像我們花了大量的建築物 。
past the wonderful wall filled with the juxtaposition that i was talking about ; beautiful carvings set into the walls above the neon " ristorante " sign , and so on .	過去我所說的 , 美麗的漫畫在 「 漫畫 」 的牆壁上 , 上面有著美好的牆壁 , 上面有著 「 超越高牆 」 。
and eventually , we arrive at the courtyard of the palazzo , which is our destination .	最後 , 我們在巴拉薩的海岸 , 我們在巴拉薩的海岸 , 終於看到了巴拉薩的公園 。
straight up through the courtyard into a little window into the attic , where somebody is working at the drawing board .	直到在畫板上 , 有人在畫畫板上 。
he removes the message from the leg of the bird ; this is what it says .	他把訊息從鳥類上傳遞到鳥類的訊息 , 這是它說的 。
as we look at the drawing board , we see what he's working on is , in fact , a map of the journey that the pigeon has just taken , and the red line extends through all the sights .	我們看到他正在做的事 , 我們看到他在做什麼 , 實際上 , 紅色線路線的路線延伸了所有視線 。
and if you want the information , so that we complete this cycle of understanding , all you have to do is read these paragraphs .	如果你想要資訊 , 我們就知道 , 你需要做的就是閱讀這些循環 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家
mit researcher skylar tibbits works on selfassembly the idea that instead of building something , we can create materials that build themselves , much the way a strand of dna zips itself together . it's a big concept at early stages ; tibbits shows us three inthelab projects that hint at what a selfassembling future might look like .	麻省理工學院的研究人員在自我組合的過程中 , 我們可以創造材料 , 可以創造材料 , 來創造材料 , 可以創造出自我組合的概念 , 不是建立自己 , 而是在自我組合的過程中 , 可以創造材料 , 讓自己更加強大的概念 , 例如 , 我們可以創造材料 , 讓自己在自我組合的過程中 , 可以創造出自我組合的樣子 。
skylar tibbits: can we make things that make themselves ?	skyacits:我們可以製造自己嗎 ?
today i'd like to show you the future of the way we make things .	今天我想要展示我們未來的未來 。
i believe that soon our buildings and machines will be selfassembling , replicating and repairing themselves .	我相信 , 我們的建築和機器會自我組裝、複製、複製並修復自己 。
so i'm going to show you what i believe is the current state of manufacturing , and then compare that to some natural systems .	接下來我要向各位展示我相信是製造商品 , 然後再加上一些自然系統 。
so in the current state of manufacturing , we have skyscrapers two and a half years [of assembly time] , 500 , 000 to a million parts , fairly complex , new , exciting technologies in steel , concrete , glass .	因此 , 在現代的技術中 , 我們有了三十萬個部分 , 非常複雜、很複雜、更新、令人興奮的技術 。
we have exciting machines that can take us into space five years [of assembly time] , 2 . 5 million parts .	我們有令人興奮的機器可以帶我們到太空五千萬個部分 。
but on the other side , if you look at the natural systems , we have proteins that have two million types , can fold in 10 , 000 nanoseconds , or dna with three billion base pairs we can replicate in roughly an hour .	但 , 如果你觀察自然系統 , 我們有兩百萬種類型 , 可以摺疊成千奈米 , 或dna , 我們有兩百萬種類型 , 可以摺疊成千奈米 , 或dna , 我們有兩百萬種類型的蛋白質 。
so there's all of this complexity in our natural systems , but they're extremely efficient , far more efficient than anything we can build , far more complex than anything we can build .	在我們自然系統中 , 它們非常有效率 , 比任何我們能製造的更複雜 , 但它們非常有效率 , 比任何我們能製造的還要複雜 。
they're far more efficient in terms of energy .	它們更有效率於能源 。
they hardly ever make mistakes .	他們很難做出錯誤 。
and they can repair themselves for longevity .	他們可以修復自己的長壽 。
so there's something super interesting about natural systems .	所以 , 關於自然系統的很有趣 。
and if we can translate that into our built environment , then there's some exciting potential for the way that we build things .	如果我們可以把這個轉化變成我們的建築環境 , 那麼有一些令人興奮的潛力 。
and i think the key to that is selfassembly .	我認為關鍵是自我組裝的關鍵 。
so if we want to utilize selfassembly in our physical environment , i think there's four key factors .	所以如果我們想要自我組合在我們的身體環境中 , 我認為有四個關鍵因素 。
the first is that we need to decode all of the complexity of what we want to build so our buildings and machines .	首先是 , 我們需要把所有複雜的複雜性結合起來 , 來建立我們的建築和機器 。
and we need to decode that into simple sequences basically the dna of how our buildings work .	我們需要解碼簡單的序列 , 基本上是我們建築物的dna 。
then we need programmable parts that can take that sequence and use that to fold up , or reconfigure .	接著我們需要程式化合物 , 可以用它來摺疊 , 或重複 。
we need some energy that's going to allow that to activate , allow our parts to be able to fold up from the program .	我們需要一些能量 , 讓它能讓我們的部分能從這個計畫中能摺疊 。
and we need some type of error correction redundancy to guarantee that we have successfully built what we want .	我們需要一些錯誤的角度來保證我們成功地建立我們想要的 。
so i'm going to show you a number of projects that my colleagues and i at mit are working on to achieve this selfassembling future .	所以 , 我要給你們看一些專案 , 我在麻省理工學院 , 去達成這個自我組合的未來 。
the first two are the macrobot and decibot .	第一兩個是macrobot和decibot 。
so these projects are largescale reconfigurable robots 8 ft . , 12 ft . long proteins .	這些計畫是很大型的機器人 , 十二公尺長的蛋白質 。
they're embedded with mechanical electrical devices , sensors .	它們是用機械電子裝置 , 感應器 。
you decode what you want to fold up into , into a sequence of angles so negative 120 , negative 120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , negative 120 something like that ; so a sequence of angles , or turns , and you send that sequence through the string .	你決定你想要摺疊成的序列 , 將你想要摺疊成的序列 , 將序列排序列出你想要摺疊出來的序列 , 再加120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、0、1、120 。
each unit takes its message so negative 120 it rotates to that , checks if it got there and then passes it to its neighbor .	每單單位置信封信 , 每單單位置信號碼 , 就可以把它送到鄰居 。
so these are the brilliant scientists , engineers , designers that worked on this project .	這些是非常聰明的科學家 , 工程師 , 工程師 , 工程師 。
and i think it really brings to light: is this really scalable ?	我認為這真的很可怕嗎 ?
i mean , thousands of dollars , lots of man hours made to make this eightfoot robot .	我是說 , 數千萬美金 , 數千美金 , 很多男人小時才能做出這個八呎的機器人 。
can we really scale this up ? can we really embed robotics into every part ?	我們能否真的把機器人放進一部分 ?
the next one questions that and looks at passive nature , or passively trying to have reconfiguration programmability .	接下來的一個問題是 , 或熱情的 , 不可思議的 。
but it goes a step further , and it tries to have actual computation .	但它更進一步 , 試圖有實際的計算 。
it basically embeds the most fundamental building block of computing , the digital logic gate , directly into your parts .	基本上 , 它基本上是把最基本的建築包包起來 , 數位邏輯 , 直接進入你的部分 。
so this is a nand gate .	這是nandgate 。
you have one tetrahedron which is the gate that's going to do your computing , and you have two input tetrahedrons .	你有兩個輸入軌道 , 你有兩個輸入軌道 。
one of them is the input from the user , as you're building your bricks .	其中之一是來自使用者 , 你建設你的磚塊 。
the other one is from the previous brick that was placed .	另外一個是從前所未見到的 。
and then it gives you an output in 3d space .	然後它給你輸入3d空間 。
so what this means is that the user can start plugging in what they want the bricks to do .	意思是 , 使用者可以開始投入他們想要的磚塊 。
it computes on what it was doing before and what you said you wanted it to do .	它在你之前所做的事 , 你說你想要它做 。
and now it starts moving in threedimensional space so up or down .	現在它開始在三維空間中移動 。
so on the lefthand side , [1 , 1] input equals 0 output , which goes down .	左手邊 , 左邊是1 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 1 。
on the righthand side , [0 , 0] input is a 1 output , which goes up .	右手邊 , 0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.
and so what that really means is that our structures now contain the blueprints of what we want to build .	意思是 , 我們的結構現在是我們想要建立的藍圖 。
so they have all of the information embedded in them of what was constructed .	所以他們有所有資訊都被建構出來 。
so that means that we can have some form of selfreplication .	意思是 , 我們就可以有一些自我複製 。
in this case i call it selfguided replication , because your structure contains the exact blueprints .	在這個案例中 , 我稱它為自閉症 , 因為你的結構包含了藍圖 。
if you have errors , you can replace a part .	如果你有錯誤 , 你可以取代 。
all the local information is embedded to tell you how to fix it .	所有當地的資訊都被放棄 , 告訴你如何解決它 。
so you could have something that climbs along and reads it and can output at one to one .	所以你可以有一些東西 , 可以在上面寫字 。
it's directly embedded ; there's no external instructions .	它直接被排除 , 沒有外部的指令 。
so the last project i'll show is called biased chains , and it's probably the most exciting example that we have right now of passive selfassembly systems .	最後一個案例我會展示的是 「 偏見 」 , 它可能是最令人興奮的例子 , 就是我們有自組的系統 。
so it takes the reconfigurability and programmability and makes it a completely passive system .	所以 , 它需要重新構造和程式 , 讓它成為完全全部的系統 。
so basically you have a chain of elements .	基本上 , 你有一塊錢 。
each element is completely identical , and they're biased .	每個元素都完全相同 , 它們很偏見 。
so each chain , or each element , wants to turn right or left .	所以 , 每個元素 , 或左邊 。
so as you assemble the chain , you're basically programming it .	所以 , 你基本上就是程式 。
you're telling each unit if it should turn right or left .	每個單位都可以正確或左邊 。
so when you shake the chain , it then folds up into any configuration that you've programmed in so in this case , a spiral , or in this case , two cubes next to each other .	所以 , 當你把這條鏈放進去 , 或這個案例中 , 它就會摺疊起來 , 或在這個案例中 , 兩方之間的方塊 。
so you can basically program any threedimensional shape or onedimensional , twodimensional up into this chain completely passively .	所以你可以基本上設計任何三維空間的形狀或維度 , 基本上 , 三維空間的形狀 , 基本上 , 基本上就是這樣 。
so what does this tell us about the future ?	這告訴我們未來的未來是什麼 ?
i think that it's telling us that there's new possibilities for selfassembly , replication , repair in our physical structures , our buildings , machines .	我認為它會告訴我們 , 有新的可能性自我組合、複製、複製、複製、機器 。
there's new programmability in these parts .	這些部分的新型態 。
and from that you have new possibilities for computing .	從你有新的可能性 。
we'll have spatial computing .	我們會有空間計算 。
imagine if our buildings , our bridges , machines , all of our bricks could actually compute .	想像一下如果我們的建築物 , 我們的橋樑 , 機器 , 我們的橋樑 , 機器 , 我們的橋樑 , 所有的磚塊都可以計算 。
that's amazing parallel and distributed computing power , new design possibilities .	令人驚訝的是 , 新的設計可能性 。
so it's exciting potential for this .	非常令人興奮 。
so i think these projects i've showed here are just a tiny step towards this future , if we implement these new technologies for a new selfassembling world .	所以我認為這些計畫我已經展示出了這個未來 , 如果我們把這些新型的科技帶到未來 , 如果我們把這些新型的科技帶進去 , 將這些新的自我組合起來 。
we've been to the moon , we've mapped the continents , we've even been to the deepest point in the ocean twice . what's left for the next generation to explore ? biologist and explorer nathan wolfe suggests this answer: almost everything . and we can start , he says , with the world of the unseeably small .	我們已經在海底下一代探索了一代人類的生物學家和探索者•沃爾夫所說的:幾乎一切都可以開始 , 我們就開始了 , 地球上最深的地方 , 我們就開始 , 說:幾乎一切都可以開始 。
biodiversity , exploration , microbiology , science	生物多樣性、探索、生物多樣性、探索、生物多樣性 。
nathan wolfe: what's left to explore ?	納納森•沃爾夫:左邊是探索什麼 ?
recently i visited beloit , wisconsin .	最近 , 我見到伊斯蘭汀 。
and i was there to honor a great 20th century explorer , roy chapman andrews .	我很榮幸 , 一位偉大二十世紀的探險家 , 羅••布萊特 。
during his time at the american museum of natural history , andrews led a range of expeditions to uncharted regions , like here in the gobi desert .	在美國博物館的歷史中 , 美國博物館的大自然歷史中 , 像是在美國博物館 , 在那裡 , 像是在沙漠中 。
he was quite a figure .	他真的很想 。
he was later , it's said , the basis of the indiana jones character .	後來 , 他會說 , 印度娜瓊斯角色的基礎 。
and when i was in beloit , wisconsin , i gave a public lecture to a group of middle school students .	當我在加州時 , 我給了一群學校學生 。
and i'm here to tell you , if there's anything more intimidating than talking here at ted , it'll be trying to hold the attention of a group of a thousand 12yearolds for a 45minute lecture .	我在這裡要告訴你們 , 如果有更多的注意力 , 要讓大家注意一下 , 在ted上 , 它會試著把注意力從一千個12歲的小組成千上萬12歲的小朋友 。
at the end of the lecture they asked a number of questions , but there was one that's really stuck with me since then .	在他們問一個問題之後 , 我會問一個問題 , 但那之後 , 我就開始了 。
there was a young girl who stood up , and she asked the question: " where should we explore ? "	有一位年輕女孩站起來 , 她問這個問題: 「 我們應該去探索嗎 ? 」
i think there's a sense that many of us have that the great age of exploration on earth is over , that for the next generation they're going to have to go to outer space or the deepest oceans in order to find something significant to explore .	我認為我們有許多人知道地球上有許多人 , 深深海洋的探索 , 來探索地球的探索 。
but is that really the case ?	但這真的是真的嗎 ?
is there really nowhere significant for us to explore left here on earth ?	我們在地球上有沒有重大的影響 ?
it sort of made me think back to one of my favorite explorers in the history of biology .	它讓我回到我最喜歡的探險家之一 。
this is an explorer of the unseen world , martinus beijerinck .	這是未知世界的探險家 , 馬丁•貝吉尼斯 。
so beijerinck set out to discover the cause of tobacco mosaic disease .	所以beijerinck開始發現導致菸草疾病的原因 。
what he did is he took the infected juice from tobacco plants and he would filter it through smaller and smaller filters .	他做的是從菸草中拿出昆蟲 , 把感染的昆蟲從菸草中取出 , 讓它變得更小 。
and he reached the point where he felt that there must be something out there that was smaller than the smallest forms of life that were ever known bacteria , at the time .	他到達時 , 發現 , 生命中最小的形式是從未知細菌到的 。
he came up with a name for his mystery agent .	他的名字是他的神秘的名字 。
he called it the virus latin for " poison . "	他稱它為 「 毒品 」 。
and in uncovering viruses , beijerinck really opened this entirely new world for us .	除此之外 , 疫苗開啟了整個新世界 。
we now know that viruses make up the majority of the genetic information on our planet , more than the genetic information of all other forms of life combined .	我們現在知道 , 病毒的基因信息在我們的地球上大量的基因資訊 , 比其它的基因資訊更多 。
and obviously there's been tremendous practical applications associated with this world things like the eradication of smallpox , the advent of a vaccine against cervical cancer , which we now know is mostly caused by human papillomavirus .	顯然 , 很顯然 , 顯然有很大的應用程式 , 像是我們現在所知道的 , 人類的疫苗是人類的疫苗 。
and beijerinck's discovery , this was not something that occurred 500 years ago .	貝吉納斯發現 , 這不是發生在500年前 。
it was a little over 100 years ago that beijerinck discovered viruses .	大約一百年前 , 尼克發現病毒的病毒 。
so basically we had automobiles , but we were unaware of the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	基本上 , 我們有自動駕駛 , 但我們沒有意識到 , 我們有自動駕駛的生命 。
we now have these amazing tools to allow us to explore the unseen world things like deep sequencing , which allow us to do much more than just skim the surface and look at individual genomes from a particular species , but to look at entire metagenomes , the communities of teeming microorganisms in , on and around us and to document all of the genetic information in these species .	我們現在有了這些奇妙的工具讓我們能夠更深切地探索這個物種的物種 , 不僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅僅能透過物種的物種來探索這個物種的物種 , 我們現在有了這些奇妙的工具 , 讓我們去探索這個物種的各種基因資訊 。
we can apply these techniques to things from soil to skin and everything in between .	我們可以應用這些技術 , 從土壤到皮膚和其他東西 。
in my organization we now do this on a regular basis to identify the causes of outbreaks that are unclear exactly what causes them .	在我的組織中 , 我們現在正在進行一個規範 , 來辨識出爆發的原因是不清楚的原因 。
and just to give you a sense of how this works , imagine that we took a nasal swab from every single one of you .	為了讓各位了解這個作品如何運作 , 想像一下我們從每個人身上拿出一個 。
and this is something we commonly do to look for respiratory viruses like influenza .	這是我們常見的病毒 , 像是病毒感染 。
the first thing we would see is a tremendous amount of genetic information .	首先 , 我們會看到的是巨大的基因資訊 。
and if we started looking into that genetic information , we'd see a number of usual suspects out there of course , a lot of human genetic information , but also bacterial and viral information , mostly from things that are completely harmless within your nose .	如果我們開始觀察基因資訊 , 我們會看到許多人類的基因資訊 , 大部分都是從你鼻子中傳遞出來的 。
but we'd also see something very , very surprising .	但我們也看到了非常令人驚訝的事情 。
as we started to look at this information , we would see that about 20 percent of the genetic information in your nose doesn't match anything that we've ever seen before no plant , animal , fungus , virus or bacteria .	當我們開始觀察這些資訊時 , 我們會發現大約20%的基因信息是從未見過的 , 病毒或細菌 。
basically we have no clue what this is .	基本上 , 我們沒有辦法 。
and for the small group of us who actually study this kind of data , a few of us have actually begun to call this information biological dark matter .	對於我們這些數據而言 , 我們其實是研究這些數據 , 我們有多數名稱這些資訊生物黑暗物質 。
we know it's not anything that we've seen before ; it's sort of the equivalent of an uncharted continent right within our own genetic information .	我們知道這不是我們所見過的 , 它是我們所見過的物種 , 是我們所見過的大陸 , 都是在我們的基因資訊中所見過的 。
and there's a lot of it .	還有很多 。
if you think 20 percent of genetic information in your nose is a lot of biological dark matter , if we looked at your gut , up to 40 or 50 percent of that information is biological dark matter .	如果你認為20%的基因資訊是生物黑暗物質 , 如果你認為20%的基因資訊是生物黑暗物質 。
and even in the relatively sterile blood , around one to two percent of this information is dark matter can't be classified , can't be typed or matched with anything we've seen before .	即便是黑暗物質無法被分類或配對我們所見過的資訊
at first we thought that perhaps this was artifact .	首先我們認為這可能是藝術品
these deep sequencing tools are relatively new .	這些深密的工具都是相對的 。
but as they become more and more accurate , we've determined that this information is a form of life , or at least some of it is a form of life .	但當它們變得更精確 , 我們就知道這些資訊是生命的形式 , 至少有一種生命的形式 。
and while the hypotheses for explaining the existence of biological dark matter are really only in their infancy , there's a very , very exciting possibility that exists: that buried in this life , in this genetic information , are signatures of as of yet unidentified life .	雖然假設存在的生物黑暗物質存在於它們的存在 , 在這個基因信息中 , 有一種非常令人興奮的可能性 , 存在於它們的生命中 , 有一種非常令人興奮的可能性 。
that as we explore these strings of a's , t's , c's and g's , we may uncover a completely new class of life that , like beijerinck , will fundamentally change the way that we think about the nature of biology .	當我們探索這些策略 , 像是beijerinck , 基本上改變了我們對於生物學的新生態 。
that perhaps will allow us to identify the cause of a cancer that afflicts us or identify the source of an outbreak that we aren't familiar with or perhaps create a new tool in molecular biology .	或許會讓我們瞭解到我們不熟悉的原因 , 或許會讓我們了解癌症的原因 , 或我們不熟悉的 , 或可能讓我們了解到我們在分子生物學中產生一種新的工具 。
i'm pleased to announce that , along with colleagues at stanford and caltech and ucsf , we're currently starting an initiative to explore biological dark matter for the existence of new forms of life .	我很高興告訴大家 , 在史丹佛大學和洛杉磯 , 我們目前正在開始尋找生物黑暗物質 , 來探索生物黑暗物質存在 。
a little over a hundred years ago , people were unaware of viruses , the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	幾百年前 , 人類不知道病毒、生命的基因資訊 。
a hundred years from now , people may marvel that we were perhaps completely unaware of a new class of life that literally was right under our noses .	一百年後 , 人類可能是從未知到的新生長 , 人類可能是在我們的鼻子裡的一百年 。
it's true , we may have charted all the continents on the planet and we may have discovered all the mammals that are out there , but that doesn't mean that there's nothing left to explore on earth .	這是真的 , 我們可能已經發現了地球上所有的哺乳類動物 , 但我們可能發現了所有的哺乳類動物 , 但這並不表示 , 地球上沒有任何地方 。
beijerinck and his kind provide an important lesson for the next generation of explorers people like that young girl from beloit , wisconsin .	貝吉米克和他對下一代的探險家 , 像年輕女孩 , 像年輕女孩 , 波斯汀 。
and i think if we phrase that lesson , it's something like this: don't assume that what we currently think is out there is the full story .	我認為如果我們把這個故事放棄了 , 我們就這樣想:不要假設我們現在所認為的 , 就是這樣:不要假設我們現在所認為的 , 就是這樣 。
go after the dark matter in whatever field you choose to explore .	在黑暗的領域中 , 你選擇去探索 。
there are unknowns all around us and they're just waiting to be discovered .	在我們身上 , 他們只是等著發現 。
legendary scientist david deutsch puts theoretical physics on the back burner to discuss a more urgent matter: the survival of our species . the first step toward solving global warming , he says , is to admit that we have a problem .	法律科學家大衛•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫•史蒂夫:
climate change , cosmos , culture , environment , global issues , physics , science , technology , universe	氣候變遷、文化、環境、科學、科技、宇宙 。
david deutsch on our place in the cosmos	大衛在宇宙裡的大衛星 。
we've been told to go out on a limb and say something surprising .	我們已經被告知 , 說出一些令人驚訝的事情 。
so i'll try and do that , but i want to start with two things that everyone already knows .	我想要從兩件事開始 , 大家都知道 。
and the first one , in fact , is something that has been known for most of recorded history .	首先 , 其實 , 其實是許多記錄歷史的歷史 。
and that is that the planet earth , or the solar system , or our environment or whatever , is uniquely suited to sustain our evolution or creation , as it used to be thought and our present existence , and most important , our future survival .	那就是地球 , 或地球 , 我們的未來生存 , 我們的未來生存 , 我們的未來生存 。
nowadays this idea has a dramatic name: spaceship earth .	現在 , 這個想法有一個戲劇性的名字:太空船 。
and the idea there is that outside the spaceship , the universe is implacably hostile , and inside is all we have , all we depend on .	想法是 , 宇宙是無限的 , 宇宙是很不可思議的 , 宇宙是很不可思議的 , 宇宙是無限的 。
and we only get the one chance: if we mess up our spaceship , we've got nowhere else to go .	我們只能得到一個機會:如果我們把太空船放進去 , 我們就有機會了 。
now , the second thing that everyone already knows is that contrary to what was believed for most of human history , human beings are not , in fact , the hub of existence .	第二件事 , 人類歷史的人類歷史 , 不是人類歷史 , 人類的歷史 , 人類的歷史 , 人類歷史的歷史 , 人類的歷史也不存在 。
as stephen hawking famously said , we're just a chemical scum on the surface of a typical planet that's in orbit around a typical star , which is on the outskirts of a typical galaxy , and so on .	如史蒂芬•霍金說 , 我們只是一個典型的行星 , 在一個典型的星球上 , 在一般的恆星上 , 在一般的恆星上 , 就在一般的恆星上 。
now the first of those two things that everyone knows is kind of saying that we're at a very untypical place , uniquely suited and so on , and the second one is saying that we're at a typical place .	所有人都知道的第一件事是說我們在一個典型的地方 , 而第二個就是我們在一個典型的地方 。
and especially if you regard these two as deep truths to live by and to inform your life decisions , then they seem a little bit to conflict with each other .	尤其是 , 如果你把這兩者視為深入的真相 , 那麼他們似乎有點衝突 。
but that doesn't prevent them from both being completely false .	但這不是預防他們從完全錯誤 。
and they are . so let me start with the second one: typical . well is this a typical place ? well , let's look around , you know , and look in a random direction , and we see a wall , and chemical scum and that's not typical of the universe at all .	它們是一開始 , 我會看到一間牆壁 , 一個典型的方向 , 我們看到一間牆壁 , 一個典型的方向 , 我們看到一間牆壁 , 不是典型的 。
all you've got to do is go a few hundred miles in that same direction and look back , and you won't see any walls or chemical scum at all all you see is a blue planet . and if you go further than that , you'll see the sun , the solar system , and the stars and so on .	你只能看到太陽系、太陽系、太陽系、太陽系、恆星等等 。
but that's still not typical of the universe , because stars come in galaxies .	但這不是宇宙的原則 , 因為恆星在銀河系中 。
and most places in the universe , a typical place in the universe , is nowhere near any galaxies .	宇宙中大多數地方都在宇宙中 , 在宇宙中 , 宇宙中幾乎沒有任何銀河系 。
so let's go out further , till we're outside the galaxy , and look back , and yeah , there's the huge galaxy with spiral arms laid out in front of us .	咱們來回來 , 回到我們面前的銀河系 , 是的 , 在我們面前的銀河系中 , 有個巨大的銀河系 。
and at this point we've come 100 , 000 light years from here .	在這時 , 我們已經有十萬光年了 。
but we're still nowhere near a typical place in the universe .	但是我們仍在宇宙中 , 幾乎是宇宙的典範 。
to get to a typical place , you've got to go 1 , 000 times as far as that into intergalactic space .	要到達一個典型的地方 , 你必須走進一千倍的空間 。
and so what does that look like ? typical .	這看起來是什麼樣子 ? 典型 。
what does a typical place in the universe look like ?	宇宙裡的典型的樣子是怎麼樣的 ?
well , at enormous expense , ted has arranged a highresolution immersion virtual reality rendering of intergalactic space the view from intergalactic space .	在非常高解析度的空間中 , ted有了高解析度的解析度 , 透過空間的觀點來看 。
so can we have the lights off , please , so we can see it ?	我們能看到它嗎 ?
well , not quite , not quite perfect you see , in intergalactic space intergalactic space is completely dark , pitch dark .	嗯 , 不行 , 不論是完全黑暗的 , 完全黑暗的 。
it's so dark that if you were to be looking at the nearest star to you , and that star were to explode as a supernova , and you were to be staring directly at it at the moment when its light reached you , you still wouldn't be able to see even a glimmer .	非常黑暗 , 如果你要去看近恆星的恆星 , 你仍然不會看到它的光線 。
that's how big and how dark the universe is .	宇宙是多麼大 。
and that's despite the fact that a supernova is so bright , so brilliant an event , that it would kill you stone dead at a range of several light years .	儘管如此亮亮 , 很聰明 , 如此亮亮 , 很明顯的 , 它會殺死你在幾光年內的夜晚 。
and yet from intergalactic space , it's so far away you wouldn't even see it .	然而 , 遠遠遠離你看不到它 。
it's also very cold out there less than three degrees above absolute zero .	它也非常寒冷 , 超過三度 , 絕對零 。
and it's very empty . the vacuum there is one million times less dense than the highest vacuum that our best technology on earth can currently create . so that's how different a typical place is from this place .	它很空氣 , 很空氣 , 空氣是從這個地方的最佳的技術 , 來源於這個地方 。
and that is how untypical this place is .	通常是這樣 。
so can we have the lights back on please ? thank you .	我們有燈光嗎 ? 謝謝 。
now how do we know about an environment that's so far away , and so different , and so alien , from anything we're used to ?	現在我們如何知道環境的環境很遙遠 , 遠遠遠遠 , 遠遠遠遠 , 外星 , 和外星人相處 。
well , the earth our environment , in the form of us is creating knowledge .	地球我們的環境 , 我們環境的形式是創造知識 。
well , what does that mean ? well , look out even further than we've just been i mean from here , with a telescope and you'll see things that look like stars .	這意味著什麼 ? 遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠遠超過我們剛剛所說的 , 看起來像是星星 。
they're called " quasars . " quasars originally meant quasistellar object .	他們稱之為 「 平等 」 。
which means things that look a bit like stars . but they're not stars .	意思是 , 看起來像是恆星 , 但它們不是恆星 。
and we know what they are . billions of years ago , and billions of light years away , the material at the center of a galaxy collapsed towards a supermassive black hole .	我們知道它們在幾十億年前 , 數十億年前 , 銀河系的黑洞 , 形成了一個巨大的黑洞 。
and then intense magnetic fields directed some of the energy of that gravitational collapse . and some of the matter , back out in the form of tremendous jets which illuminated lobes with the brilliance of i think it's a trillion suns .	接著 , 引力爆發的能量引力爆炸 , 引力爆炸的能量 , 引力爆炸的能量 , 引力爆炸 , 引力爆炸 , 引力爆炸 , 引力爆炸 , 引力崩潰 。
now , the physics of the human brain could hardly be more unlike the physics of such a jet .	現在 , 人類大腦的物理是不太可能的 。
we couldn't survive for an instant in it . language breaks down when trying to describe what it would be like in one of those jets .	我們無法生存下來 , 來描述它發生在哪裡 , 像是在那段時間中 , 來描述它的樣子 。
it would be a bit like experiencing a supernova explosion , but at pointblank range and for millions of years at a time .	它會有點像是超級新星爆炸 , 但在幾百萬年的時間內 ,
and yet , that jet happened in precisely such a way that billions of years later , on the other side of the universe , some bit of chemical scum could accurately describe , and model , and predict , and explain , above all there's your reference what was happening there , in reality .	然而 , 幾十億年後 , 在宇宙中 , 有些化學物質可以準確地預測 , 並且解釋 , 在宇宙中 , 有些化學物質可以正確地描述它 , 並且預測 , 並且預測 , 並且預測 , 並且預測 , 並且解釋 。
the one physical system , the brain , contains an accurate working model of the other the quasar .	一個身體系統 , 大腦 , 包含了一種精確的模型 , 大腦 , 包含了它的運作模式 。
not just a superficial image of it , though it contains that as well , but an explanatory model , embodying the same mathematical relationships and the same causal structure .	不僅僅是一個超級的圖像 , 它也包含了相同的數學關係和相同的數學關係和相同的關係 。
now that is knowledge . and if that weren't amazing enough , the faithfulness with which the one structure resembles the other is increasing with time . that is the growth of knowledge .	這是知識的知識 。 如果那不夠奇怪 , 信仰是知識的知識 。
so , the laws of physics have this special property .	物理學的特性是特定的 。
that physical objects , as unlike each other as they could possibly be , can nevertheless embody the same mathematical and causal structure and to do it more and more so over time .	這樣的身體物體 , 不相同的數學和理念 , 不管它們可能是不可能的 , 同時也不限於它 。
so we are a chemical scum that is different . this chemical scum has universality .	所以我們是化學分裂的化學物質 , 這種化學物質是不同的 。
its structure contains , with everincreasing precision , the structure of everything . this place , and not other places in the universe , is a hub which contains within itself the structural and causal essence of the whole of the rest of physical reality . and so , far from being insignificant , the fact that the laws of physics allow this , or even mandate that this can happen , is one of the most important things about the physical world .	它的結構和原始的結構 , 不管是物理世界的結構 , 不管其他地方 , 甚至是物理世界的結構 , 而不是其他地方 , 它的確是物理世界的結構 。
now how does the solar system and our environment , in the form of us acquire this special relationship with the rest of the universe ?	那麼 , 太陽系和我們的環境 , 我們如何與其他宇宙的關係 ?
well , one thing that's true about stephen hawking's remark i mean , it is true , but it's the wrong emphasis . one thing that's true about it is that it doesn't do it with any special physics . there's no special dispensation , no miracles involved . it does it simply with three things that we have here in abundance .	關於史蒂芬•霍金斯的特定物理學 , 沒有特別的意見 , 但它是真實的 , 但它是真實的 , 但它是真實的 , 但它是真實的 , 但它是真實的 , 但它是真實的 , 沒有特殊的物理 , 沒有特殊的物理 , 沒有特殊的物理 , 沒有特別的意見 , 和任何特殊的物理 。
one of them is matter , because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing . information processing is computation , computation requires a computer there's no known way of making a computer without matter .	其中之一是 , 電腦的知識是資訊處理的過程 , 電腦並不需要電腦 , 不需要電腦 。
we also need energy to make the computer , and most important , to make the media in effect onto which we record the knowledge that we discover .	我們也需要能量來製造電腦 , 更重要的是 , 我們也需要能量 , 才能讓媒體影響到我們所發現的知識 。
and then thirdly , less tangible , but just as essential for the openended creation of knowledge , of explanations , is evidence .	第三 , 更小的 , 不應該是證據 , 但基本上就是證據 。
now , our environment is inundated with evidence .	現在 , 我們的環境受到證據 。
we happen to get round to testing , let's say , newton's law of gravity about 300 years ago .	我們會在300年前 , 來測試 , 說 , 新頓的法律 。
but the evidence that we used to do that was falling down on every square meter of the earth for billions of years before that , and will continue to fall on for billions of years afterwards . and the same is true for all the other sciences .	但是證據顯示我們在地球上每平方公平方米的數十億年都一直在前進 , 還會持續數十億年 , 並且繼續下降 , 接下來的數十億年 , 還會持續下降 。
as far as we know , evidence to discover the most fundamental truths of all the sciences is here just for the taking on our planet .	就如我們所知 , 證據證明 , 證據證明地球上最基本的真相 。
our location is saturated with evidence , and also with matter and energy .	我們的位置是充滿證據和能量的
out in intergalactic space , those three prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge are at their lowest possible supply .	在國際空間中 , 那些三個偏遠的空間 , 最低的可能供應 。
as i said , it's empty ; it's cold ; and it's dark out there . or is it ?	如同我說的 , 它很冷 , 它很冷 , 很冷 , 不是嗎 ?
now actually , that's just another parochial misconception .	實際上 , 這只是另一個公園的錯誤概念 。
because imagine a cube out there in intergalactic space , the same size as our home , the solar system . now that cube is very empty by human standards , but that still means that it contains over a million tons of matter .	因為想像一下 , 宇宙的空間 , 和我們的家一樣大小 , 現在 , 太陽系很空 , 但它仍然意味著它包含了數百萬噸的物質 。
and a million tons is enough to make , say , a selfcontained space station , on which there's a colony of scientists that are devoted to creating an openended stream of knowledge , and so on .	一百萬個國家的確有一百萬個公開的公共衛生 , 說 , 一個自閉的空間站 , 在那裡 , 有一百萬個公開的公開的知識 , 等等 。
now , it's way beyond present technology to even gather the hydrogen from intergalactic space and form it into other elements and so on .	現在 , 它是超越了科技 , 將其它元素放入其他元素中 。
but the thing is , in a comprehensible universe , if something isn't forbidden by the laws of physics , then what could possibly prevent us from doing it , other than knowing how ?	但 , 宇宙是 , 如果有些東西不是被法律物理的宇宙 , 那麼 , 若我們無法避免我們 , 那麼 , 可能是如何防止我們去做它呢 ?
in other words , it's a matter of knowledge , not resources .	換句話說 , 這是知識的知識 , 不是資源 。
and the same well , if we could do that we'd automatically have an energy supply , because the transmutation would be a fusion reactor and evidence ?	同樣的 , 如果我們能做到 , 我們會是核融合反應器和證據嗎 ?
well , again , it's dark out there to human senses . but all you've got to do is take a telescope , even one of presentday design , look out and you'll see the same galaxies as we do from here .	嗯 , 再次 , 看起來 , 人類的角度看不見 , 但所有人都要用望遠鏡 , 去看 , 看看你會看到相同的銀河 。
and with a more powerful telescope , you'll be able to see stars , and planets .	有了更大的望遠鏡 , 你會看到恆星和行星 。
in those galaxies , you'll be able to do astrophysics , and learn the laws of physics .	在這些銀河系中 , 你會可以做天體物理學法 。
and locally there you could build particle accelerators , and learn elementary particle physics , and chemistry , and so on .	基本粒子的粒子物理和化學 , 等等 。
probably the hardest science to do would be biology field trips because it would take several hundred million years to get to the nearest lifebearing planet and back .	或許最困難的科學是生物學領域 , 因為它會花幾億年的時間 , 來到地球上最難的行星 。
but i have to tell you and sorry , richard but i never did like biology field trips much , and i think we can just about make do with one every few hundred million years .	但我必須告訴各位 , 抱歉 , 理查 , 我想我們只能用幾億年來做些什麼 。
so in fact , intergalactic space does contain all the prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge . any such cube , anywhere in the universe , could become the same kind of hub that we are , if the knowledge of how to do so were present there .	事實上 , 在宇宙中 , 任何生物都可以變成類似的知識 , 如同我們在宇宙中所知的知識 , 不管我們是如何存在的 。
so we're not in a uniquely hospitable place .	我們不是在一個獨特的時刻 。
if intergalactic space is capable of creating an openended stream of explanations , then so is almost every other environment . so is the earth . so is a polluted earth .	如果國際空間可以創造出一個開放式的空間 , 基本上就是地球 。 所以 , 地球是地球 。
and the limiting factor , there and here , is not resources , because they're plentiful , but knowledge , which is scarce .	限制工廠 , 不是資源 , 因為它們很有限 , 因為它們很有限 , 但知識是很大的 。
now this cosmic knowledgebased view may and i think ought to make us feel very special . but it should also make us feel vulnerable , because it means that without the specific knowledge that's needed to survive the ongoing challenges of the universe , we won't survive them .	這種宇宙的知識也應該讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為它意味著 , 若沒有特定的知識 , 才能讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為它意味著 , 我們不會生存下來 。
all it takes is for a supernova to go off a few light years away , and we'll all be dead !	一切都死於超級新星 , 然後我們就死了 !
martin rees has recently written a book about our vulnerability to all sorts of things , from astrophysics , to scientific experiments gone wrong , and most importantly to terrorism with weapons of mass destruction .	馬丁•雷斯最近寫了一本關於我們的脆弱性武器 , 從天體到科學實驗 , 大規模毀滅 。
and he thinks that civilization has only a 50 percent chance of surviving this century .	他認為文明已經只有50%的機會 。
i think he's going to talk about that later in the conference .	我想他會在場會談談這件事 。
now i don't think that probability is the right category to discuss this issue in .	我不認為這問題是正確的 。
but i do agree with him about this . we can survive , and we can fail to survive .	但是我同意他 , 我們能活下來 , 我們能活下來 , 我們能活下來 , 我們無法生存 。
but it depends not on chance , but on whether we create the relevant knowledge in time .	但它依賴於機會 , 但它依賴於機會 , 但它依賴於機會 , 但它依賴於機會 , 但它依賴於機會 。
the danger is not at all unprecedented . species go extinct all the time .	危險並不是在所有物種滅絕的物種滅絕 。
civilizations end . the overwhelming majority of all species and all civilizations that have ever existed are now history .	文明 , 所有物種和文明已經存在歷史上 。
and if we want to be the exception to that , then logically our only hope is to make use of the one feature that distinguishes our species , and our civilization , from all the others namely , our special relationship with the laws of physics , our ability to create new explanations , new knowledge to be a hub of existence .	若我們希望能創造出新的解釋 , 我們的特殊關係 , 我們的特殊關係 , 我們的特殊關係 , 我們的特殊關係 , 我們的能力創造出新的解釋 , 我們的特殊關係 , 我們的特殊關係 , 是我們的能力 , 創造出新知識 , 來創造出新知識 。
so let me now apply this to a current controversy , not because i want to advocate any particular solution , but just to illustrate the kind of thing i mean .	現在 , 讓我來談談我所說的 , 不是因為我想要鼓勵任何特定的解決方案 , 也不是因為我想要提出任何特定的解決方案 。
and the controversy is global warming .	爭議是全球暖化 。
now , i'm a physicist , but i'm not the right kind of physicist . in regard to global warming , i'm just a layman . and the rational thing for a layman to do is to take seriously the prevailing scientific theory . and according to that theory , it's already too late to avoid a disaster .	我是物理學家 , 我是物理學家 , 我是物理學家 , 但不是正確的物理學家 , 我是物理學家 , 我是物理學家 , 我是物理學家 , 不論是物理學家 , 不論是物理學家 , 不論是物理學家 , 不論是物理學家 , 不論是物理學家 , 不論是物理學家 , 不論是物理學家 。
because if it's true that our best option at the moment is to prevent co2 emissions with something like the kyoto protocol , with its constraints on economic activity and its enormous cost of hundreds of billions of dollars or whatever it is , then that is already a disaster by any reasonable measure .	因為如果這是真的 , 我們最好的選擇就是預防二氧化碳排放在經濟活動上 , 以上數百億美元或任何理所當然 。
and the actions that are advocated are not even purported to solve the problem , merely to postpone it by a little . so it's already too late to avoid it , and it probably has been too late to avoid it ever since before anyone realized the danger .	而它已經太遲了 , 無法避免它的行為 , 可能已經太遲了 , 也可能已經太遲了 , 無法避免它 , 可能已經太遲了 , 也可能已經太遲了 。
it was probably already too late in the 1970s , when the best available scientific theory was telling us that industrial emissions were about to precipitate a new ice age in which billions would die .	在1970年代末期 , 最好的科學理論告訴我們 , 在1970年代末期 , 科學理論告訴我們 , 工業排放量 , 可能已經太遲了 。
now the lesson of that seems clear to me , and i don't know why it isn't informing public debate .	對於我來說 , 我不知道為什麼它不公開辯論 。
it is that we can't always know . when we know of an impending disaster , and how to solve it at a cost less than the cost of the disaster itself , then there's not going to be much argument , really .	我們不只知道 , 我們總是知道 , 如何解決它的成本 , 不然 , 我們總是知道 , 若我們不清楚 , 就會知道 。
but no precautions , and no precautionary principle , can avoid problems that we do not yet foresee .	但沒有預防 , 不可避免的問題 , 我們無法預測的原則 。
hence , we need a stance of problemfixing , not just problemavoidance .	因此 , 我們需要一個解決問題的問題 , 而不是只是解決問題 。
and it's true that an ounce of prevention equals a pound of cure , but that's only if we know what to prevent .	真的 , 這種預防的預防 , 只是如果我們知道要防止什麼 。
if you've been punched on the nose , then the science of medicine does not consist of teaching you how to avoid punches .	如果你一直在鼻子上 , 醫學的科學不是教導你如何避免爆發 。
if medical science stopped seeking cures and concentrated on prevention only , then it would achieve very little of either .	如果醫學科學停止尋找治療方法 , 結果就會達成很少 。
the world is buzzing at the moment with plans to force reductions in gas emissions at all costs .	世界在氣體排放大量減少氣體排放量 。
it ought to be buzzing with plans to reduce the temperature , and with plans to live at the higher temperature and not at all costs , but efficiently and cheaply . and some such plans exist , things like swarms of mirrors in space to deflect the sunlight away , and encouraging aquatic organisms to eat more carbon dioxide .	為了減少溫度的溫度 , 並且鼓勵氣候變遷 , 讓陽光降低溫度 , 更有效率、更有效率、更有效率、更有效率、更有效率、更有效率、更有效率、更有效率、更有效率、更有效率、更有效率、更有效率、更有效率、更有效率、更有效率 。
at the moment , these things are fringe research .	此時 , 這些東西都是法律研究 。
they're not central to the human effort to face this problem , or problems in general .	他們不是中央人為了面對這個問題 , 或是問題 。
and with problems that we are not aware of yet , the ability to put right not the sheer good luck of avoiding indefinitely is our only hope , not just of solving problems , but of survival .	而我們沒有意識到的能力 , 不只是解決問題 , 而是生存 , 而是生存的能力 。
so take two stone tablets , and carve on them .	拿兩隻石頭 , 把兩顆石頭放在它們上 。
on one of them , carve: " problems are soluble . "	其中之一 , 卡: 「 問題是運行 。 」
and on the other one carve: " problems are inevitable . "	另外一件事: 「 問題是無可避免的 。 」
how can a struggling country break out of poverty if it's trapped in a system of bad rules ? economist paul romer unveils a bold idea: " charter cities , " cityscale administrative zones governed by a coalition of nations .	一個經濟學家保羅•羅倫•羅倫理想: 「 克里斯•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫斯 」 說: 「 克里斯•羅倫 」 的意思是: 「 克萊特城市 」 , 「 公共衛生 」 的政策 , 如果它被關聯的國家分離貧窮 。
business , culture , economics , global issues , politics	商業、文化、經濟、經濟、全球議題 。
paul romer's radical idea: charter cities	保羅•羅馬斯•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅倫•羅斯:
take a look at this picture .	看看這張照片 。
it poses a very fascinating puzzle for us .	它對我們來說是個非常令人驚奇的謎題 。
these african students are doing their homework under streetlights at the airport in the capital city because they don't have any electricity at home .	這些非洲學生正在做他們的家庭作業 , 因為他們沒有任何電力 。
now , i haven't met these particular students , but i've met students like them .	我沒有見過這些學生 , 但是我遇到了學生 。
let's just pick one for example , the one in the green shirt .	咱們舉個例子 , 一個例子 , 綠色椅子 。
let's give him a name , too: nelson .	讓我們給他一個名字 , 叫:nelson 。
i'll bet nelson has a cellphone .	我會打電話 。
so here is the puzzle .	這是謎題 。
why is it that nelson has access to a cuttingedge technology , like the cellphone , but doesn't have access to a 100yearold technology for generating electric light in the home ?	為什麼它會用科技來製造電池 , 但不需要用一百年的科技來製造電燈 ?
now , in a word , the answer is " rules . "	答案是 「 規則 」 。
bad rules can prevent the kind of winwin solution that's available when people can bring new technologies in and make them available to someone like nelson .	不好的規則可以防止它可以預防的新技術 , 讓人們能用新科技 , 讓它們可以預防 , 像nelson一樣 。
what kinds of rules ?	規則是什麼 ?
the electric company in this nation operates under a rule , which says that it has to sell electricity at a very low , subsidized price in fact , a price that is so low it loses money on every unit that it sells .	在這個國家的公司中 , 每單單位的電廠都要賣掉 , 價格很低 , 價格很低 , 價格很低 。
so it has neither the resources , nor the incentives , to hook up many other users .	所以 , 不管是資源 , 其他使用者 。
the president wanted to change this rule .	總統想要改變這個規則 。
he's seen that it's possible to have a different set of rules , rules where businesses earn a small profit , so they have an incentive to sign up more customers .	他可以看到 , 規則規則規則規則規則規則規則規則 , 所以他們有了更多的客戶 。
that's the kind of rules that the cellphone company that nelson purchases his telephony from operates under .	手機公司的規則是nelsonpurchsonpurchsonpurchsonpurchsonpurchsonpurchsonpurchsonpurchsonpurchsonpurchsonpurchson
the president has seen how those rules worked well .	總統也看過這些規則如何運作 。
so he tried to change the rules for pricing on electricity , but ran into a firestorm of protest from businesses and consumers who wanted to preserve the existing subsidized rates .	所以他試圖改變規則 , 讓它可以改變規則 , 但從商業和消費者身上 , 他們想要保存存活率的範圍 。
so he was stuck with rules that prevented him from letting the winwin solution help his country .	所以 , 他被困在法規上 , 協助他的國家 。
and nelson is stuck studying under the streetlights .	nelson在街燈上進行研究 。
the real challenge then , is to try to figure out how we can change rules .	真正的挑戰是 , 試圖找出我們要如何改變規則 。
are there some rules we can develop for changing rules ?	我們有一些規則來改變規則嗎 ?
i want to argue that there is a general abstract insight that we can make practical , which is that , if we can give more choices to people , and more choices to leaders who , in many countries , are also people .	我想說的是 , 如果我們能選擇更多的選擇 , 或更多的選擇 , 就能做出實際的選擇 。
but , it's useful to present the opposition between these two .	但 , 這兩者之間的相互相互相反 。
because the kind of choice you might want to give to a leader , a choice like giving the president the choice to raise prices on electricity , takes away a choice that people in the economy want .	因為你想要給予領導者的選擇 , 選舉一個選擇的選項 , 選擇你可能會想要給予領導者的選擇 。
they want the choice to be able to continue consuming subsidized electric power .	他們想要選擇可以持續消耗能源電力 。
so if you give just to one side or the other , you'll have tension or friction .	所以 , 如果你給你一個方塊 , 你就會有壓力或摩擦 。
but if we can find ways to give more choices to both , that will give us a set of rules for changing rules that get us out of traps .	但如果我們能找到方法 , 來改變規則 , 使我們陷入困境 。
now , nelson also has access to the internet .	現在 , nelson也能取得網路 。
and he says that if you want to see the damaging effects of rules , the ways that rules can keep people in the dark , look at the pictures from nasa of the earth at night .	他說 , 如果你想要看到那些規則的規則 , 可以讓人們在黑暗中看到 , 在夜晚上看的圖片 。
in particular check out asia .	尤其是亞洲 。
if you zoom in here , you can see north korea , in outline here , which is like a black hole compared to its neighbors .	如果你在這裡 , 你可以看到北韓的黑洞 , 就像黑洞的黑洞一樣 。
now , you won't be surprised to learn that the rules in north korea keep people there in the dark .	現在 , 你不會很驚訝 , 在北韓的規則會發現 , 北韓的規則會變得很讓人驚訝 。
but it is important to recognize that north korea and south korea started out with identical sets of rules in both the sense of laws and regulations , but also in the deeper senses of understandings , norms , culture , values and beliefs .	但 , 更深層的了解、文化、文化、價值、信仰、文化、價值和信仰 。
when they separated , they made choices that led to very divergent paths for their sets of rules .	當他們分開時 , 他們會做出選擇 , 他們做出選擇 , 造成了非常多樣性的道路 。
so we can change we as humans can change the rules that we use to interact with each other , for better , or for worse .	所以我們可以改變我們使用與彼此互動的規則 , 更好 , 更好 , 更糟 。
now let's look at another region , the caribbean .	現在我們來看看另一個區域 , 加勒比海 。
zoom in on haiti , in outline here .	大海地 , 在海地上 。
haiti is also dark , compared to its neighbor here , the dominican republic , which has about the same number of residents .	海地也很黑暗 , 跟鄰居有關相同的數位居民 。
both of these countries are dark compared to puerto rico , which has half as many residents as either haiti or the dominican republic .	兩個國家都比較黑暗 , 比例如東歐元、海地、海地 , 或多數國家都一樣 。
what haiti warns us is that rules can be bad because governments are weak .	海地的規則是壞的 , 因為政府是壞的 。
it's not just that the rules are bad because the government is too strong and oppressive , as in north korea .	不是因為政府太強大和壓縮 , 因為政府太強烈和壓縮 。
so that if we want to create environments with good rules , we can't just tear down .	所以如果我們想要創造環境的環境 , 我們不只會這樣 。
we've got to find ways to build up , as well .	我們必須找到方法來建立 。
now , china dramatically demonstrates both the potential and the challenges of working with rules .	現在 , 中國大規模地表達出潛力和規則的挑戰 。
back in the beginning of the data presented in this chart , china was the world's hightechnology leader .	在這張圖中 , 中國是世界上的高科技領導者 。
chinese had pioneered technologies like steel , printing , gunpowder .	中國的科技像是風格、印刷、印刷、印刷機 。
but the chinese never adopted , at least in that period , effective rules for encouraging the spread of those ideas a profit motive that could have encouraged the spread .	但中國從未被鼓舞 , 至少在那段期間 , 最有效的規則 , 可以鼓勵廣泛的傳播 。
and they soon adopted rules which slowed down innovation and cut china off from the rest of the world .	他們很快的規則 , 把中國從世界各地的規則減慢 。
so as other countries in the world innovated , in the sense both of developing newer technologies , but also developing newer rules , the chinese were cut off from those advances .	其他國家都在發展新科技 , 但也開發出新的技術 , 同時開發新型態 , 同時開發出新的規則 , 並且開發出新的規則 。
income there stayed stagnant , as it zoomed ahead in the rest of the world .	收入的收入 , 讓它在世界各地出現 。
this next chart looks at more recent data .	下一個圖片看起來更近期的數據 。
it plots income , average income in china as a percentage of average income in the united states .	它的收入 , 平均收入 , 平均收入 , 平均收入在美國 。
in the '50s and '60s you can see that it was hovering at about three percent .	在50年代 , 60年代 , 你可以看到 , 大約有三分之三 。
but then in the late '70s something changed .	但在70年代末期 , 改變了 。
growth took off in china . the chinese started catching up very quickly with the united states .	中國的中國開始快速地成長 。
if you go back to the map at night , you can get a clue to the process that lead to the dramatic change in rules in china .	如果你回到地圖上 , 你就能得到一條線索 , 才能引起民主改變的規則 。
the brightest spot in china , which you can see on the edge of the outline here , is hong kong .	中國最聰明的地點 , 你可以看到在網路上 , 這是香港 。
hong kong was a small bit of china that , for most of the 20th century , operated under a very different set of rules than the rest of mainland china rules that were copied from working market economies of the time , and administered by the british .	香港是20世紀的中國 , 大部分的中國都在中國 , 大部分二十世紀 , 由英國的規則 , 都被英國人所禁止 。
in the 1950s , hong kong was a place where millions of people could go , from the mainland , to start in jobs like sewing shirts , making toys .	在1950年代 , 在1950年代 , 香港是數百萬人可以從馬地開始工作 , 像是衣服、玩具 。
but , to get on a process of increasing income , increasing skills led to very rapid growth there .	但 , 要快速增長 , 增加的速度越來越快 。
hong kong was also the model which leaders like deng xiaoping could copy , when they decided to move all of the mainland towards the market model .	香港也就是 「 香港 」 的模式 , 當他們決定把整個馬地轉移到市場模式時 。
but deng xiaoping instinctively understood the importance of offering choices to his people .	但 , 密切的重要性 , 對於他人的重要性 。
so instead of forcing everyone in china to shift immediately to the market model , they proceeded by creating some special zones that could do , in a sense , what britain did: make the opportunity to go work with the market rules available to the people who wanted to opt in there .	所以 , 不管在哪裡 , 都可以做些特別的國家 , 讓機會和市場規劃 , 讓機會和市場規範 , 讓機會與市場規則 , 讓機會與市場規範合作 , 讓機會與市場規範合作 。
so they created four special economic zones around hong kong: zones where chinese could come and work , and cities grew up very rapidly there ; also zones where foreign firms could come in and make things .	所以他們創造了四個特殊的經濟區塊 , 城市長大 , 很快速地 , 在那裡 , 城市長大 , 很快地 , 在那裡 , 城市長大 。
one of the zones next to hong kong has a city called shenzhen .	其中一座城市叫艾倫•蓋茲 。
in that city there is a taiwanese firm that made the iphone that many of you have , and they made it with labor from chinese who moved there to shenzhen .	在城市中 , 有一座城市的工程碑 , 讓iphone有許多人 , 他們用了工程 , 讓iphone從中國搬到海岸 。
so after the four special zones , there were 14 coastal cites that were open in the same sense , and eventually demonstrated successes in these places that people could opt in to , that they flocked to because of the advantages they offered .	在這四個特殊區塊 , 牠們有14個特區 , 在那裡 , 牠們會被開放 , 最終證明了 , 牠們會被捕捉到的原因 。
demonstrated successes there led to a consensus for a move toward the market model for the entire economy .	展示了成功的結果 , 讓整個經濟的市場模式融合起來 。
now the chinese example shows us several points .	中國的例子顯示我們有幾點 。
one is: preserve choices for people .	第一是:保存選擇的人 。
two: operate on the right scale .	第二:在正確的情況下 。
if you try to change the rules in a village , you could do that , but a village would be too small to get the kinds of benefits you can get if you have millions of people all working under good rules .	如果你試著改變規則 , 你能做到這一點 , 但村莊可能是很小的 , 但村子會很少 , 可以做到這一點 。
on the other hand , the nation is too big .	另一方面 , 國家太大了 。
if you try to change the rules in the nation , you can't give some people a chance to hold back , see how things turn out , and let others zoom ahead and try the new rules .	如果你試著改變規則的規則 , 你不能給一些人機會 , 來看看它的規則 , 並且嘗試改變規則 。
but cities give you this opportunity to create new places , with new rules that people can opt in to .	但城市給你機會創造出新的規則 , 讓人們能選擇的機會 。
and they're large enough to get all of the benefits that we can have when millions of us work together under good rules .	它們大大足夠大量 , 才能得到所有利益 , 才能得到所有利益 , 才能得到所有利益的利益 。
so the proposal is that we conceive of something called a charter city .	所以 , 建議是我們稱作 「 公共衛星市 」 。
we start with a charter that specifies all the rules required to attract the people who we'll need to build the city .	我們從一座公開的規律開始 , 規則需要吸引我們的人 , 才能吸引我們城市的人 。
we'll need to attract the investors who will build out the infrastructure the power system , the roads , the port , the airport , the buildings .	我們需要吸引投資者的投資者 , 來創造出基礎建設的投資者 , 建造出基礎設施的投資者 。
you'll need to attract firms , who will come hire the people who move there first .	你需要吸引人 , 才能僱用那些人 。
and you'll need to attract families , the residents who will come and live there permanently , raise their children , get an education for their children , and get their first job .	你需要吸引家庭 , 讓孩子們接受教育 , 讓孩子們接受教育 , 讓孩子們接受教育 , 讓孩子們接受教育 , 來幫助他們 。
with that charter , people will move there .	有了這條路 , 人們會移動 。
the city can be built .	城市可以建造 。
and we can scale this model .	我們可以把這個模型放大 。
we can go do it over and over again .	我們可以再次重複它 。
to make it work , we need good rules . we've already discussed that .	為了讓它運作 , 我們需要良好的規則 , 我們已經討論了 。
those are captured in the charter .	這些被捕捉到 。
we also need the choices for people .	我們也需要選擇 。
that's really built into the model if we allow for the possibility of building cities on uninhabited land .	若我們能建立城市的可能性 , 就能建立城市的可能性 。
you start from uninhabited territory .	你從未知覺的地點開始 。
people can come live under the new charter , but no one is forced to live under it .	人們可以住在新檔案中 , 但沒有人能活下來 。
the final thing we need are choices for leaders .	最後我們需要的是選擇領導者 。
and , to achieve the kind of choices we want for leaders we need to allow for the potential for partnerships between nations: cases where nations work together , in effect , de facto , the way china and britain worked together to build , first a little enclave of the market model , and then scale it throughout china .	為了達成我們希望領導者的需求 , 我們想要領導人合作 , 來合作 , 來合作 , 來建立 , 來到中國和英國一起合作 , 去建立 , 來到中國和英國一起合作 , 來到中國和英國一起合作 , 來到中國和英國一起合作 。
in a sense , britain , inadvertently , through its actions in hong kong , did more to reduce world poverty than all the aid programs that we've undertaken in the last century .	在某種程度上來說 , 英國 , 不可思議的行動 , 比所有援助計畫 , 更能減少世界貧窮 。
so if we allow for these kind of partnerships to replicate this again , we can get those kinds of benefits scaled throughout the world .	所以如果我們能讓這些夥伴可以把這些夥伴轉化 , 我們就能得到這些益處在世界各地 。
in some cases this will involve a delegation of responsibility , a delegation of control from one country to another to take over certain kinds of administrative responsibilities .	在某些案例中 , 政府負責任意的責任任意 , 負責任意的責任 。
now , when i say that , some of you are starting to think , " well , is this just bringing back colonialism ? "	現在 , 當我說 , 有些人開始想: 「 嗯 , 這只是帶回殖民主義嗎 ? 」
it's not . but it's important to recognize that the kind of emotions that come up when we start to think about these things , can get in the way , can make us pull back , can shut down our ability , and our interest in trying to explore new ideas .	不是 。 但重要的是 , 了解到我們開始思考這些東西 , 可以讓我們開始思考這些東西 , 可以把我們的能力帶回來 , 可以把我們的能力帶回去探索新的想法 。
why is this not like colonialism ?	為什麼不像殖民主義呢 ?
the thing that was bad about colonialism , and the thing which is residually bad in some of our aid programs , is that it involved elements of coercion and condescension .	關於殖民主義 , 最糟的是 , 在我們援助計畫中 , 它是關於殖民主義 , 而在我們援助計畫中 , 事情是很糟的 。
this model is all about choices , both for leaders and for the people who will live in these new places .	這種模式是選擇 , 和那些在這些新地方的人們一起生活 。
and , choice is the antidote to coercion and condescension .	選擇是 , 選擇是反對和自閉症的 。
so let's talk about how this could play out in practice .	咱們來談談如何在練習上 。
let's take a particular leader , raul castro , who is the leader of cuba .	咱們來做一個特定的領導者 , 他是古巴的領導者 。
it must have occurred to castro that he has the chance to do for cuba what deng xiaoping did for china , but he doesn't have a hong kong there on the island in cuba .	他有機會去做中國 , 但他沒有一個香港 , 中國 , 但他沒有一個香港 。
he does , though , have a little bit of light down in the south that has a very special status .	不過 , 在南邊有一個非常特別的位置 。
there is a zone there , around guantanamo bay , where a treaty gives the united states administrative responsibility for a piece of land that's about twice the size of manhattan .	有一塊土地 , 一塊土地 , 一塊塊土地 , 大約是曼哈頓的兩倍 。
castro goes to the prime minister of canada and says , " look , the yankees have a terrible pr problem .	卡斯特在加拿大說: 「 看 , 阿拉達和說法是很糟糕的 。
they want to get out .	他們想要離開 。
why don't you , canada , take over ?	為什麼不加拿大 , 加拿大 ?
build run a special administrative zone .	建立一個特定的特定區域 。
allow a new city to be built up there .	讓一個新的城市來建造 。
allow many people to come in .	讓許多人來到這裡 。
let us have a hong kong nearby .	咱們帶著一個香港 。
some of my citizens will move into that city as well .	我的公民會搬到城市中 。
others will hold back . but this will be the gateway that will connect the modern economy and the modern world to my country . "	其他人會連結現代經濟和現代經濟和現代的經濟和現代世界 。 」
now , where else might this model be tried ?	現在 , 其他可能的模型會被試試嗎 ?
well , africa . i've talked with leaders in africa .	非洲 , 我和領導人在非洲 。
many of them totally get the notion of a special zone that people can opt into as a rule .	許多人都可以接受一個特殊的區塊 , 讓他們可以成為一個規則 。
it's a rule for changing rules .	這是改變規則的規則
it's a way to create new rules , and let people optin without coercion , and the opposition that coercion can force .	這是一種方法來創造新規則 , 讓人們無關心 , 反而是創造出新的規則 。
they also totally get the idea that in some instances they can make more credible promises to longterm investors the kind of investors who will come build the port , build the roads , in a new city they can make more credible promises if they do it along with a partner nation .	他們也知道 , 在某些方面 , 若他們能做出更多的信任 , 就能讓更多的信仰 , 可以讓更多的信仰貸款 , 來建立道路 , 讓更多的信仰可以讓更多的信仰 , 可以讓更多的信仰 , 來建立道路 , 讓更多的信仰 。
perhaps even in some arrangement that's a little bit like an escrow account , where you put land in the escrow account and the partner nation takes responsibility for it .	或許甚至有點像是 「 人工智慧帳戶 」 , 你把土地放在帳戶旁邊 , 把土地放在帳戶旁邊 。
there is also lots of land in africa where new cities could be built .	在非洲 , 新城市可以建造 。
this is a picture i took when i was flying along the coast .	這是我在海岸拍攝的照片 。
there are immense stretches of land like this land where hundreds of millions of people could live .	像這樣的土地 , 有數十萬人可以活下來 。
now , if we generalize this and think about not just one or two charter cites , but dozens cities that will help create places for the many hundreds of millions , perhaps billions of people who will move to cities in the coming century is there enough land for them ?	現在 , 如果我們把這個概念放到城市中 , 數十億個城市 , 不僅僅是有足夠的城市 , 可以幫助創造數十億個城市 , 來到城市中有足夠的城市 。
well , throughout the world , if we look at the lights at night , the one thing that's misleading is that , visually , it looks like most of the world is already built out .	在世界各地 , 如果我們觀察光燈在晚上 , 它看起來就像大多數世界都已經建造出來了 。
so let me show you why that's wrong .	讓我來說明為什麼這是錯的 。
take this representation of all of the land .	把這代表所有土地 。
turn it into a square that stands for all the arable land on earth .	把它轉化成一個平方 , 把它放在地球上 。
and let these dots represent the land that's already taken up by the cities that three billion people now live in .	讓這些點代表土地 , 讓這些點代表土地 , 已經在城市三十億人居住了 。
if you move the dots down to the bottom of the rectangle you can see that the cities for the existing three billion urban residents take up only three percent of the arable land on earth .	如果你把這些植物放到你所看到的城市中 , 只有三十億個城市居住的城市居住居住了三十億城市居住的城市 。
so if we wanted to build cities for another billion people , they would be dots like this .	所以如果我們想要建立城市十億人 , 他們就會這樣做 。
we'd go from three percent of the arable land , to four percent .	我們從3%到4% 。
we'd dramatically reduce the human footprint on earth by building more cities that people can move to .	我們大幅地減少人類腳印在地球上 , 讓人們可以移動 。
and if these are cities governed by good rules , they can be cities where people are safe from crime , safe from disease and bad sanitation , where people have a chance to get a job .	如果這些城市是城市 , 人們有機會能取得工作 。
they can get basic utilities like electricity .	他們可以得到基本的電力 。
their kids can get an education .	他們的孩子可以得到教育 。
so what will it take to get started building the first charter cities , scaling this so we build many more ?	所以 , 要開始建造出第一座城市 , 我們建造了更多的城市 ?
it would help to have a manual .	它會幫助有人性 。
what university professors could do is write some details that might go into this manual .	大學教授們可以做的是寫一些細節 , 可以寫一些細節 。
you wouldn't want to let us run the cities , go out and design them .	你不想讓我們走出城市 , 去設計他們 。
you wouldn't let academics out in the wild .	你不會讓學術在野外 。
but , you could set us to work thinking about questions like , suppose it isn't just canada that does the deal with raul castro .	但 , 你可以想像一下問題 , 假設它不僅僅是加拿大 , 而是加拿大 。
perhaps brazil comes in as a participant , and spain as well . and perhaps cuba wants to be one of the partners in a fourway joint venture .	或許巴西是加入的參與者 , 可能是巴西 , 或許巴西 , 可能是巴西的參與者 , 或巴西 , 可能是巴西的參與者 , 可能是巴西的參與者 。
how would we write the treaty to do that ?	我們要如何寫作治療 ?
there is less precedent for that , but that could easily be worked out .	沒那麼多 , 但它可以輕易運作 。
how would we finance this ?	我們要如何融入這個呢 ?
turns out singapore and hong kong are cities that made huge gains on the value of the land that they owned when they got started .	結果發現 , 木頭和香港是城市 , 牠們有一大堆積木 , 牠們在牠們自己開始的時候 。
you could use the gains on the value of the land to pay for things like the police , the courts , but the school system and the health care system too , which make this a more attractive place to live , makes this a place where people have higher incomes which , incidentally , makes the land more valuable .	你可以用在土地上的價值 , 讓它變得更有價值 , 但學校系統和健康照護系統和健康照護系統 , 更有價值的人 , 讓它變得更有價值 。
so the incentives for the people helping to construct this zone and build it , and set up the basic rules , go very much in the right direction .	因此 , 人們協助建構這個區塊 , 建立基礎規則 , 並建立這個區塊 , 並建立基礎規則 , 讓它變得非常正確 。
so there are many other details like this .	還有許多其他細節 。
how could we have buildings that are low cost and affordable for people who work in a first job , assembling something like an iphone , but make those buildings energy efficient , and make sure that they are safe , so they don't fall down in an earthquake or a hurricane .	我們應該要做些什麼 , 讓這些建築能有效率 , 確保它們是安全的 , 因為它們是安全的 , 所以他們不會降低成本 , 或颶風 。
many technical details to be worked out , but those of us who are already starting to pursue these things can already tell that there is no roadblock , there's no impediment , other than a failure of imagination , that will keep us from delivering on a truly global winwin solution .	許多科技細節已經開始追求這些事情 , 但我們已經開始追求這些東西 , 不只能說 , 沒有道路 , 沒有阻礙 , 沒有阻礙 , 沒有阻礙 , 不管我們在哪裡 , 還能讓我們走出一個真正的全球性力 。
let me conclude with this picture .	讓我結合這張照片 。
the reason we can be so well off , even though there is so many people on earth , is because of the power of ideas .	我們的原因是 , 儘管有許多人在地球上 , 是因為它的理念 。
we can share ideas with other people , and when they discover them , they share with us .	我們可以與別人分享想法 , 當他們發現它們時 , 他們和我們分享 。
it's not like scarce objects , where sharing means we each get less .	不像恐怖的物品 , 鯊魚代表我們彼此變得更少 。
when we share ideas we all get more .	當我們分享想法時 , 我們就會變得更多 。
when we think about ideas in that way , we usually think about technologies .	當我們想到科技時 , 我們通常會想到科技 。
but there is another class of ideas: the rules that govern how we interact with each other ; rules like , let's have a tax system that supports a research university that gives away certain kinds of knowledge for free .	但還有另一種想法:規則的規則 , 像是我們如何與彼此溝通 , 例如 , 我們的規則 , 可以提供一些知識自由的知識 。
let's have a system where we have ownership of land that is registered in a government office , that people can pledge as collateral .	我們有一個系統 , 在政府辦公室裡 , 人們可以帶領土地 。
if we can keep innovating on our space of rules , and particularly innovate in the sense of coming up with rules for changing rules , so we don't get stuck with bad rules , then we can keep moving progress forward and truly make the world a better place , so that people like nelson and his friends don't have to study any longer under the streetlights . thank you .	如果我們可以繼續進步 , 我們的規則會改變規則 , 我們不得不用規則來改變規則 , 讓世界變得更美好 , 所以 , 人們喜歡nelson和他的朋友不需要在街燈上走路 , 才能繼續進步 。
genomics pioneer craig venter takes a break from his epic roundtheworld expedition to talk about the millions of genes his team has discovered so far in its quest to map the ocean’s biodiversity .	基因組的基因團隊已經發現了 , 遠遠地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地圖 。
dna , biosphere , biotech , entrepreneur , genetics , invention , oceans , science , technology	dna , 生物科技 , 生物科技 , 生物科技 , 生物科技 , 生物科技 , 生物科技 , 生物科技 。
craig venter on dna and the sea	dna和海岸 。
at the break , i was asked by several people about my comments about the aging debate .	在這場辯論中 , 我被問過幾位關於 「 辯論 」 的評論 。
and this will be my only comment on it .	這是我唯一的評論 。
and that is , i understand that optimists greatly outlive pessimists .	那就是 , 我了解樂觀主義者很喜歡 。
what i'm going to tell you about in my 18 minutes is how we're about to switch from reading the genetic code to the first stages of beginning to write the code ourselves .	接下來我要告訴各位 , 在我18分鐘內 , 我們要從閱讀基因編碼開始寫程式碼 。
it's only 10 years ago this month when we published the first sequence of a freeliving organism , that of haemophilus influenzae .	僅僅僅僅十年前 , 我們出版了第一條序列 , 即使我們出版出版的第一條序列 , 即便是 「 無人機體 」 。
that took a genome project from 13 years down to four months .	這個計畫從13年來 , 只花了三年的時間 。
we can now do that same genome project in the order of two to eight hours .	我們現在可以在兩到八個小時內進行同樣的基因組計畫 。
so in the last decade , a large number of genomes have been added: most human pathogens , a couple of plants , several insects and several mammals , including the human genome .	所以在過去十年間 , 許多基因組成了人類的基因組 , 包括人類的基因組 , 包括人類的基因組 。
genomics at this stage of the thinking from a little over 10 years ago was , by the end of this year , we might have between three and five genomes sequenced ; it's on the order of several hundred .	在這個階段的基因組中 , 我們大概有三到五個基因組序列 , 大概有三到五個基因組 , 大概有三到五個基因組 , 大概有三到五個基因組 。
we just got a grant from the gordon and betty moore foundation to sequence 130 genomes this year , as a side project from environmental organisms .	我們只是從環境機體的一方案例中找到了130個基因組 , 結果是 , 未來的130個基因組 , 正是從環境機體中找到的 。
so the rate of reading the genetic code has changed .	閱讀基因編碼已經改變了
but as we look , what's out there , we've barely scratched the surface on what is available on this planet .	但當我們發現 , 我們在這個星球上看到了什麼樣子 。
most people don't realize it , because they're invisible , but microbes make up about a half of the earth's biomass , whereas all animals only make up about one onethousandth of all the biomass .	大部分的人都不了解它 , 因為它們是不可見的 , 但微生物的生物大量超過一半 , 因為它們是可見的 , 但微生物的生物大量只有三分之一 。
and maybe it's something that people in oxford don't do very often , but if you ever make it to the sea , and you swallow a mouthful of seawater , keep in mind that each milliliter has about a million bacteria and on the order of 10 million viruses .	或許它是人類在牛津大學的一百萬個細菌 , 不管怎麼做 , 你就會發現 , 每一千萬個細菌 , 大約有一百萬個細菌 , 大約有一千萬個病毒 。
less than 5 , 000 microbial species have been characterized as of two years ago , and so we decided to do something about it .	少於兩年前 , 我們決定要做些什麼 。
and we started the sorcerer ii expedition , where we were , as with great oceanographic expeditions , trying to sample the ocean every 200 miles .	我們就開始了 , 很棒的海洋地圖 , 試圖把海洋分析的數量 , 以三百英里的速度 。
we started in bermuda for our test project , then moved up to halifax , working down the u . s . east coast , the caribbean sea , the panama canal , through to the galapagos , then across the pacific , and we're in the process now of working our way across the indian ocean .	我們在美國東岸 , 加勒比海岸 , 加勒比海岸 , 加勒比海岸 , 加勒比海岸 , 加勒比海岸 , 加勒比海岸 , 加勒比海海岸 , 加勒比海岸 , 加勒比海岸 , 加勒比海岸 , 加勒比海岸 , 加勒比海岸 , 到海岸 , 到海岸 , 來到海岸 。
it's very tough duty ; we're doing this on a sailing vessel , in part to help excite young people about going into science .	這是非常艱難的 , 因為我們正在做這個計畫 , 讓年輕人進入科學 。
the experiments are incredibly simple .	實驗非常簡單 。
we just take seawater and we filter it , and we collect different size organisms on different filters , and then take their dna back to our lab in rockville , where we can sequence a hundred million letters of the genetic code every 24 hours .	我們把牠們的dna放進我們的實驗室裡 , 把牠們的dna帶到我們的實驗室裡 , 把牠們的dna回到我們的實驗室裡 , 把牠們的dna帶到我們的實驗室裡 , 把牠們的dna回到我們的實驗室裡 , 把牠們的dna帶到我們的實驗室裡 , 把牠們的dna帶到我們的實驗室裡 , 把牠們的dna回到我們的實驗室裡 。
and with doing this , we've made some amazing discoveries .	這樣做 , 我們做了一些令人驚發現的發現 。
for example , it was thought that the visual pigments that are in our eyes there was only one or two organisms in the environment that had these same pigments .	舉例來說 , 我們眼睛的眼睛只有一個或兩種機體 , 牠們在環境中有相同的偏見 。
it turns out , almost every species in the upper parts of the ocean in warm parts of the world have these same photoreceptors , and use sunlight as the source of their energy and communication .	結果發現 , 幾乎每個物種在海洋中 , 牠們的能量和溝通方式是一樣的 。
from one site , from one barrel of seawater , we discovered 1 . 3 million new genes and as many as 50 , 000 new species .	從一個網站上 , 我們發現了1.3萬個新物種 , 我們發現了1.3百萬個新的基因 , 及超過五萬個新物種 。
we've extended this to the air now with a grant from the sloan foundation .	現在我們已經把這台空氣從土地基金融合起來 。
we're measuring how many viruses and bacteria all of us are breathing in and out every day , particularly on airplanes or closed auditoriums .	我們要測量多少種病毒和細菌 , 特別是在飛機或關閉的病毒 。
we filter through some simple apparatuses ; we collect on the order of a billion microbes from just a day filtering on top of a building in new york city .	我們收集了一些簡單的應用程式 , 我們收集了十億個微生物 , 來自於紐約市的一座建築 。
and we're in the process of sequencing all that at the present time .	而我們在這個過程中 , 正在進行的過程 。
just on the data collection side , just where we are through the galapagos , we're finding that almost every 200 miles , we see tremendous diversity in the samples in the ocean .	僅僅在海洋中 , 我們發現幾乎每百英哩 , 我們在海洋中看到極多樣性的樣本 。
some of these make logical sense , in terms of different temperature gradients .	有些邏輯的邏輯 , 以不同的溫度分裂 。
so this is a satellite photograph based on temperatures red being warm , blue being cold and we found there's a tremendous difference between the warm water samples and the cold water samples , in terms of abundant species .	這是一張衛星照片 , 我們發現在溫暖的溫度下降低溫度 , 溫暖和冷水的差異 , 看起來很大的差異 。
the other thing that surprised us quite a bit is these photoreceptors detect different wavelengths of light , and we can predict that based on their amino acid sequence .	另外一件令人驚訝的是這些感測器偵測了不同波長的光線 , 我們可以預測 , 在它們的光線上 , 我們能預測它們的光線 。
and these vary tremendously from region to region .	這些是從區域到區域的區域 。
maybe not surprisingly , in the deep ocean , where it's mostly blue , the photoreceptors tend to see blue light .	或許不令人驚訝 , 在深海中 , 大部分藍色光是藍色光 。
when there's a lot of chlorophyll around , they see a lot of green light .	當有許多綠色的光線時 , 他們看到很多綠色光 。
but they vary even more , possibly moving towards infrared and ultraviolet in the extremes .	但他們更有可能在極端的情況下發射光線和紫外線 。
just to try and get an assessment of what our gene repertoire was , we assembled all the data including all of ours thus far from the expedition , which represents more than half of all the gene data on the planet and it totaled around 29 million genes .	為了嘗試找出我們的基因數據 , 包括我們所有的資料包含所有資料 , 包括我們的基因數據 , 包括地球上所有資料包含了超過29萬個基因資料 。
and we tried to put these into gene families to see what these discoveries are: are we just discovering new members of known families , or are we discovering new families ?	我們試圖把這些發現新成員的新成員 , 我們發現新成員 , 或我們發現了新的家庭 。
and it turns out we have about 50 , 000 major gene families , but every new sample we take in the environment adds in a linear fashion to these new families .	結果發現 , 我們有五萬個主要的基因家庭 , 但每個新的家庭中 , 我們有五萬個主要的基因家庭 。
so we're at the earliest stages of discovery about basic genes , components and life on this planet .	我們在這個星球上最早發現的基本基因組和生命 。
when we look at the socalled evolutionary tree , we're up on the upper righthand corner with the animals .	當我們看著 「 演化樹 」 時 , 我們就在右邊和動物之間 。
of those roughly 29 million genes , we only have around 24 , 000 in our genome .	大約有2萬5千萬個基因 , 我們只有大約2萬5千萬個基因 , 我們只有在我們的基因中 。
and if you take all animals together , we probably share less than 30 , 000 and probably maybe a dozen or more thousand different gene families .	如果你把所有的動物聚在一起 , 我們大概會有三萬個不同的基因家庭 。
i view that these genes are now not only the design components of evolution .	我看這些基因不僅僅是演化的設計
and we think in a genecentric view maybe going back to richard dawkins' ideas than in a genomecentric view , which are different constructs of these gene components .	我們認為在基因組合中 , 基因組合的樣子是基因組合的樣子 。
synthetic dna , the ability to synthesize dna , has changed at sort of the same pace that dna sequencing has over the last decade or two , and is getting very rapid and very cheap .	合成dna , dna已經改變了dna的能力 , 在過去十年或兩年間 , dna的速度非常快速 , 非常便宜 。
our first thought about synthetic genomics came when we sequenced the second genome back in 1995 , and that from mycoplasma genitalium .	我們第一次想到合成基因組的基因組 , 從1995年到1995年 , 基因組成基因組成分 。
and we have really nice tshirts that say , you know , " i heart my genitalium . "	我們有很棒的t恤 , 說: 「 我心靈感 。 」
this is actually just a microorganism .	這其實只是微生物 。
but it has roughly 500 genes .	但它大約是500個基因 。
haemophilus had 1 , 800 genes .	hemophilus有180個基因 。
and we simply asked the question , if one species needs 800 , another 500 , is there a smaller set of genes that might comprise a minimal operating system ?	我們只問一個問題 , 如果一個物種需要800 , 500 , 另一個500 , 另一個500 , 比較小的基因 , 可能是比較小的組合 , 會如何 ?
so we started doing transposon mutagenesis .	所以我們開始做交響樂器 。
transposons are just small pieces of dna that randomly insert in the genetic code .	翻譯器是基因編碼的dna 。
and if they insert in the middle of the gene , they disrupt its function .	如果它們在基因內分裂 , 它們就會破壞它的功能 。
so we made a map of all the genes that could take transposon insertions and we called those " nonessential genes . "	所以我們做了一個地圖 , 把所有基因組合起來 , 我們稱之為 「 非性基因 」 。
but it turns out the environment is very critical for this , and you can only define an essential or nonessential gene based on exactly what's in the environment .	但結果發現環境非常重要 , 因為環境的重要性是非常關鍵的 , 你只能定義一個基本上或非基因基礎 。
we also tried to take a more directly intellectual approach with the genomes of 13 related organisms , and we tried to compare all of those , to see what they had in common .	我們也試著用更直接的智慧方法來觀察它們在共通點之間的相互作用 。
and we got these overlapping circles . and we found only 173 genes common to all 13 organisms .	我們發現 , 只有173個基因組合在一起 , 我們發現只有173個基因 , 共有三個基因 。
the pool expanded a little bit if we ignored one intracellular parasite ; it expanded even more when we looked at core sets of genes of around 310 or so .	若我們忽略了一顆紅外線 , 它擴散了更多 , 如果我們忽略了一顆紅外線 , 它擴散到三十多次 。
so we think that we can expand or contract genomes , depending on your point of view here , to maybe 300 to 400 genes from the minimal of 500 .	因此我們認為我們可以擴展或吸引基因組 , 以大約300到400個基因組 , 從最低到500個基因組 。
the only way to prove these ideas was to construct an artificial chromosome with those genes in them , and we had to do this in a cassettebased fashion .	要證明這些想法是建立一個人工染色體 , 而我們必須在其中一個人工染色體 。
we found that synthesizing accurate dna in large pieces was extremely difficult .	我們發現合成的dna是非常困難的 。
ham smith and clyde hutchison , my colleagues on this , developed an exciting new method that allowed us to synthesize a 5 , 000base pair virus in only a twoweek period that was 100 percent accurate , in terms of its sequence and its biology .	漢密斯密和我同事 , 開發了一種令人興奮的新方法 , 使我們能夠合成5000個鹼基的同事 , 一種令人興奮的新方法 , 使我們能夠合成一百分之百的生物學 。
it was a quite exciting experiment when we just took the synthetic piece of dna , injected it in the bacteria and all of a sudden , that dna started driving the production of the virus particles that turned around and then killed the bacteria .	這是一種非常令人興奮的實驗 , 我們把合成的dna結合成dna , 然後殺死細菌 。
this was not the first synthetic virus a polio virus had been made a year before but it was only one tenthousandth as active and it took three years to do .	這不是第一個合成病毒的第一次合成病毒 , 它只花了三年的時間 。
this is a cartoon of the structure of phi x 174 .	這是一張卡通的卡通 , 184年的卡通 。
this is a case where the software now builds its own hardware , and that's the notions that we have with biology .	這是軟體的軟體 , 我們有生物學的概念 。
people immediately jump to concerns about biological warfare , and i had recent testimony before a senate committee , and a special committee the u . s . government has set up to review this area .	人們會立刻去評估這個區域 , 特別是委員會員 , 我在一個委員會立刻 , 去評估這個區域 。
and i think it's important to keep reality in mind , versus what happens with people's imaginations .	我認為它很重要的是要保持真實的想像力 , 和人們的想像力 。
basically , any virus that's been sequenced today that genome can be made .	基本上 , 基本上 , 任何病毒都是基因組所組成的 。
and people immediately freak out about things about ebola or smallpox , but the dna from this organism is not infective .	人們馬上想到伊波拉或小波拉的dna , 但dna並不是感染性 。
so even if somebody made the smallpox genome , that dna itself would not cause infections .	所以 , 即使有人製造了基因組 , 那dna本身不會造成感染 。
the real concern that security departments have is designer viruses .	真正的關注是設計師 。
and there's only two countries , the u . s . and the former soviet union , that had major efforts on trying to create biological warfare agents .	只有兩個國家 , 美國和蘇聯的國家 , 美國和前蘇聯盟 , 主要努力試圖創造出生物的戰場 。
if that research is truly discontinued , there should be very little activity on the knowhow to make designer viruses in the future .	如果這研究真的很少 , 就應該有很少的活動 , 來做設計師在未來的情況 。
i think singlecell organisms are possible within two years .	我認為單細胞有機體可能是兩年 。
and possibly eukaryotic cells , those that we have , are possible within a decade .	或許在十年內 , 我們已經有了可能性 。
so we're now making several dozen different constructs , because we can vary the cassettes and the genes that go into this artificial chromosome .	現在我們有了數十個不同的建構 , 因為我們可以把蛋白質和基因放進這個人工染色體 。
the key is , how do you put all of the others ?	關鍵是 , 你如何把所有其他人物放進去 ?
we start with these fragments , and then we have a homologous recombination system that reassembles those into a chromosome .	我們從這些碎片開始 , 然後我們有了一種重大的組合體制 , 將這些碎片帶到染色體上 。
this is derived from an organism , deinococcus radiodurans , that can take three million rads of radiation and not be killed .	這是從一個機體的機制 , 可以用三百萬種輻射而非被殺死 。
it reassembles its genome after this radiation burst in about 12 to 24 hours , after its chromosomes are literally blown apart .	它的基因組在204小時內放射到24小時後 , 牠的基因組在這個輻射後被解放出來 。
this organism is ubiquitous on the planet , and exists perhaps now in outer space due to all our travel there .	這種機體在地球上有機體 , 而且存在於地球上 , 可能現在在地球上 , 存在於我們的旅行 。
this is a glass beaker after about half a million rads of radiation .	這是玻璃的玻璃片 , 大約是5000萬次輻射 。
the glass started to burn and crack , while the microbes sitting in the bottom just got happier and happier .	玻璃開始被燒掉 , 而微生物在底部的微生物變得更快樂 。
here's an actual picture of what happens: the top of this shows the genome after 1 . 7 million rads of radiation .	這是一張照片 , 結果是:這張圖表顯示出了7百萬個輻射的結果 。
the chromosome is literally blown apart .	染色體是完全的染色體 。
and here's that same dna automatically reassembled 24 hours later .	相同的dna自動化合約24小時 。
it's truly stunning that these organisms can do that , and we probably have thousands , if not tens of thousands , of different species on this planet that are capable of doing that .	非常令人驚訝的是 , 這些生物可以做到這一點 , 我們可能有數千個不同的物種 , 這些生物可以做到這一點 。
after these genomes are synthesized , the first step is just transplanting them into a cell without a genome .	在這些基因組中 , 第一個步驟是將它們移植到細胞沒有基因組 。
so we think synthetic cells are going to have tremendous potential , not only for understanding the basis of biology but for hopefully environmental and society issues .	因此 , 我們認為合成細胞會有極大的潛力 , 不僅僅能了解生物學的基礎 , 以及社會問題 。
for example , from the third organism we sequenced , methanococcus jannaschii it lives in boiling water temperatures ; its energy source is hydrogen and all its carbon comes from co2 it captures back from the environment .	例如 , 二氧化碳來自環境中 , 二氧化碳來自環境中 。
so we know lots of different pathways , thousands of different organisms now that live off of co2 , and can capture that back .	所以我們知道許多不同的機體 , 有數以千計的生物 , 可以捕捉回來 。
so instead of using carbon from oil for synthetic processes , we have the chance of using carbon and capturing it back from the atmosphere , converting that into biopolymers or other products .	因此 , 我們從大氣中使用碳 , 把碳從大氣中使用碳 , 將它們從大氣中轉換成過程 , 用碳和捕捉它的碳 。
we have one organism that lives off of carbon monoxide , and we use as a reducing power to split water to produce hydrogen and oxygen .	我們有一氧化碳分子 , 我們用它來產生氫氣和氧氣 。
also , there's numerous pathways that can be engineered metabolizing methane .	同時 , 有許多路徑 , 可能是工程碑的路徑 。
and dupont has a major program with statoil in norway to capture and convert the methane from the gas fields there into useful products .	杜普森林的大型計畫 , 用在挪威 , 來捕捉並將甲烷從氣體變成有用的產品 。
within a short while , i think there's going to be a new field called " combinatorial genomics , " because with these new synthesis capabilities , these vast gene array repertoires and the homologous recombination , we think we can design a robot to make maybe a million different chromosomes a day .	在短期內 , 我認為 , 我們認為我們可以設計一個機器人 , 來製造一個新型的基因組合法 , 我們認為我們能設計一個機器人 , 來製造一個新型的基因組合成千萬個不同的染色體 。
and therefore , as with all biology , you get selection through screening , whether you're screening for hydrogen production , or chemical production , or just viability .	所以 , 隨著生物學 , 你只能觀察到氫生產、化學生產、化學產品 , 或可靠 。
to understand the role of these genes is going to be well within reach .	要了解這些基因的角色是如何 。
we're trying to modify photosynthesis to produce hydrogen directly from sunlight .	我們試圖修復原理 , 來製造氫氣直接從太陽光合作 。
photosynthesis is modulated by oxygen , and we have an oxygeninsensitive hydrogenase that we think will totally change this process .	光合作用氧氣 , 我們有氧氣 , 我們有氧氣 , 我們有氧氣 , 我們有氧氣 , 我們有氧氣 , 我們有氧氣 , 我們有氧氣 。
we're also combining cellulases , the enzymes that break down complex sugars into simple sugars and fermentation in the same cell for producing ethanol .	我們也結合了細胞的酵素 , 酵素會分裂成簡單糖和酵素的酵素 , 酵素會分裂成簡單糖和酵素 。
pharmaceutical production is already under way in major laboratories using microbes .	藥品已經在主要實驗室使用微生物 。
the chemistry from compounds in the environment is orders of magnitude more complex than our best chemists can produce .	環境中化學的化學成分 , 比我們最好的化學家能生產 。
i think future engineered species could be the source of food , hopefully a source of energy , environmental remediation and perhaps replacing the petrochemical industry .	我認為未來的工程可以是食物的源源 , 可能是食物的源源 , 可能是食物的源源 , 可能是食物的源源 , 可能是食物的源源 , 希望能成為食物的源源 , 希望能成為食物的源源 , 希望能成為食物的源源 。
let me just close with ethical and policy studies .	讓我和政策研究有關 。
we delayed the start of our experiments in 1999 until we completed a yearandahalf bioethical review as to whether we should try and make an artificial species .	我們從1999年開始在1999年開始進行實驗 , 直到我們完成了一年半的生物思維 , 直到我們去做一個人工物種 。
every major religion participated in this .	每個主要的宗教參與 。
it was actually a very strange study , because the various religious leaders were using their scriptures as law books , and they couldn't find anything in them prohibiting making life , so it must be ok . the only ultimate concerns were biological warfare aspects of this , but gave us the go ahead to start these experiments for the reasons we were doing them .	這真的是個非常奇怪的研究 , 因為有許多宗教領袖們都在做這些實驗 , 因為他們沒有辦法找到任何東西 , 只能給我們去做這些實驗 。
right now the sloan foundation has just funded a multiinstitutional study on this , to work out what the risk and benefits to society are , and the rules that scientific teams such as my own should be using in this area , and we're trying to set good examples as we go forward .	現在sloan基金會在這個領域中 , 我們試圖建立好的例子 , 來研究這個領域 , 並且我們在這個領域的研究 , 來研究這個領域 。
these are complex issues .	這些都是複雜的問題 。
except for the threat of bioterrorism , they're very simple issues in terms of , can we design things to produce clean energy , perhaps revolutionizing what developing countries can do and provide through various simple processes .	對於生物恐怖分子而言 , 它們是非常簡單的問題 , 因為它們是非常簡單的 , 我們不只能用各種簡單的問題 , 來製造乾淨能源 , 或許能改革開發中國家能提供各種簡單的問題 。
psychologist philip zimbardo says happiness and success are rooted in a trait most of us disregard: the way we orient toward the past , present and future . he suggests we calibrate our outlook on time as a first step to improving our lives .	心理學家哲學家菲利浦•薩維•薩維•辛巴帕說過:我們人生中最初步的步驟 , 來改善我們的人生 。
brain , business , happiness , mind , psychology , science	大腦、心理學、心理學、心理學 。
philip zimbardo prescribes a healthy take on time	菲利浦•薩維比薩維比薩維•辛巴帕有所謂的健康 。
i want to share with you some ideas about the secret power of time , in a very short time .	我想和你們分享一些關於秘密的秘密力量 , 很短的時間 。
video: all right , start the clock please . 30 seconds studio .	影片:首先 , 開始停止 , 打開30秒的時間 。
keep it quiet please . settle down .	讓它安靜下來 。
it's about time . end sequence . take one .	重點是 , 時間結束序列 。
10 , nine , eight , seven , six , five , four , three , two . . .	十、九、八、七、六、五、四、三、二......
philip zimbardo: let's tune into the conversation of the principals in adam's temptation .	菲利浦•薩姆貝蒂:讓我們在亞當達的教堂中談到這段話題 。
" come on adam , don't be so wishywashy . take a bite . " " i did . "	「 來吧 ! 」 「 來吧 。 」 「 我做 。 」 「 我做 。 」
" one bite , adam . don't abandon eve . "	「 亞當 , 亞當 , 阿姆 , 不要再生病 。 」
" i don't know , guys .	「 我不知道 。
i don't want to get in trouble . "	我不想麻煩 。 」
" okay . one bite . what the hell ? "	「 好吧 , 什麼 ? 」
life is temptation . it's all about yielding , resisting , yes , no , now , later , impulsive , reflective , present focus and future focus .	生命是反射性的 , 反射性、反射性、反射性、反射性、反射性、反射性、反射性、反射性、反射性 。
promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment .	早期的熱情就會降低 。
of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage thank you george bush the majority , 60 percent , yielded to sexual temptations within one year .	青少年的青少年 , 愛滋病和婚姻謝謝你喬治 , 親愛的青少年 , 每年有60% , 愛滋病 。
and most of them did so without using birth control .	大部分的人都沒有使用生氣控制 。
so much for promises .	為了承諾 。
now lets tempt fouryearolds , giving them a treat .	現在 , 咱們來試試四歲的孩子 , 給他們治療 。
they can have one marshmallow now . but if they wait until the experimenter comes back , they can have two .	牠們可以有兩隻 。 但如果他們等到實驗器回來 , 他們就可以有兩隻 。
of course it pays , if you like marshmallows , to wait .	當然 , 如果你喜歡棉花 , 等待 。
what happens is twothirds of the kids give in to temptation .	孩子們有三分之二的孩子 。
they cannot wait . the others , of course , wait .	他們不等等待 , 等等 。
they resist the temptation . they delay the now for later .	他們抵抗神殿 , 以後的誘惑 。
walter mischel , my colleague at stanford , went back 14 years later , to try to discover what was different about those kids .	我的同事在史丹佛大學畢業後 , 我同事在史丹佛大學回14年後 , 試圖發現那些孩子的同事 。
there were enormous differences between kids who resisted and kids who yielded , in many ways .	在許多方面 , 孩子們有很大的差異 。
the kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the sat .	孩子們拒絕了250個高度 。
that's enormous . that's like a whole set of different iq points .	這很龐大 , 像是一整組不同的iq點 。
they didn't get in as much trouble . they were better students .	他們沒有麻煩 , 更好的學生 。
they were selfconfident and determined . and the key for me today , the key for you , is , they were futurefocused rather than presentfocused .	他們有自信和決心的關鍵 , 我今天的關鍵是 , 你的關鍵是 , 他們的關鍵是 , 對你來說 , 它們是未來的 。
so what is time perspective ? that's what i'm going to talk about today .	今天我要談的是什麽 ?
time perspective is the study of how individuals , all of us , divide the flow of your human experience into time zones or time categories .	時間分析是人類經驗的研究 , 分析你人類體驗到時間分裂或時間的分裂 。
and you do it automatically and nonconsciously .	而且你會自動化和非意識 。
they vary between cultures , between nations , between individuals , between social classes , between education levels .	他們在文化之間之間 , 彼此之間之間之間的關係 , 在社會課間之間 , 彼此之間之間之間的關係 。
and the problem is that they can become biased , because you learn to overuse some of them and underuse the others .	問題是 , 他們會變得偏見 , 因為你學會會變得偏見 , 因為你學會會變得偏見 。
what determines any decision you make ?	決定你做出什麼決定 ?
you make a decision on which you're going to base an action .	你做了一個決定 , 你要做一個決定 。
for some people it's only about what is in the immediate situation , what other people are doing and what you're feeling .	對某些人來說 , 你的感覺是甚麼 。
and those people , when they make their decisions in that format we're going to call them " presentoriented , " because their focus is what is now .	而那些人 , 他們會稱之為 「 開放 」 , 因為他們的焦點就是現在 。
for others , the present is irrelevant .	對其他人來說 , 重點是不重要 。
it's always about " what is this situation like that i've experienced in the past ? "	一直在過去的情況是: 「 我經歷過什麼樣子 ? 」
so that their decisions are based on past memories .	所以 , 他們的決策是基於過去記憶 。
and we're going to call those people " pastoriented , " because they focus on what was .	我們會稱之為 「 過去 」 , 因為他們關注在哪裡 。
for others it's not the past , it's not the present , it's only about the future .	對其他人來說 , 不是現在 , 而是未來 。
their focus is always about anticipated consequences .	他們的焦點都是關於預期的結果 。
we're going to call them " futureoriented . " their focus is on what will be .	我們會稱他們為 「 未來 」 , 他們聚焦在未來 。
so , time paradox , i want to argue , the paradox of time perspective , is something that influences every decision you make , you're totally unaware of .	所以 , 時間矛盾 , 我想要爭論 , 每一決策你都沒意識到 。
namely , the extent to which you have one of these biased time perspectives .	名字是 , 你有這種偏見的程度 。
well there is actually six of them . there are two ways to be presentoriented .	其實有兩種方法 。
there is two ways to be pastoriented , two ways to be future .	有兩種方式是未來的 。
you can focus on pastpositive , or pastnegative .	你可以把焦點放在過去 , 或負面 。
you can be presenthedonistic , namely you focus on the joys of life , or presentfatalist it doesn't matter , your life is controlled .	你可以稱之為 「 專注於生命 」 或 「 專注於生命 」 的喜悅 , 不管你是如何控制的 。
you can be futureoriented , setting goals .	你可以成為未來的目標 。
or you can be transcendental future: namely , life begins after death .	或者你可以是 「 生命 」 , 生命開始在死亡 。
developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidly depending on the demands of the situation , that's what you've got to learn to do .	發展出靈活的需求 , 使你必須學習去做這件事 。
so , very quickly , what is the optimal time profile ?	所以 , 很快的 , 最佳的時間是如何 ?
high on pastpositive . moderately high on future .	高速的未來 。
and moderate on presenthedonism .	現代主義 。
and always low on pastnegative and presentfatalism .	總是低於過去負面和自由主義 。
so the optimal temporal mix is what you get from the past pastpositive gives you roots . you connect your family , identity and your self .	所以 , 最樂觀的結合是你從過去的親戚身上得到的結果 , 你將你的家人、身分和你的家人、身分和你的家人 。
what you get from the future is wings to soar to new destinations , new challenges .	你從未來的新挑戰 , 來到新的挑戰 。
what you get from the present hedonism is the energy , the energy to explore yourself , places , people , sensuality .	你從現在所做的是能量 , 來探索自己、人類、空間、空間 , 來探索自己 。
any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives .	任何時間都比正面的更負面 。
what do futures sacrifice for success ?	未來的犧牲是什麼 ?
they sacrifice family time . they sacrifice friend time .	他們犧牲了家庭的時間 , 他們犧牲了家人 。
they sacrifice fun time . they sacrifice personal indulgence .	他們犧牲了好玩 , 他們犧牲了個人的成本 。
they sacrifice hobbies . and they sacrifice sleep . so it affects their health .	他們犧牲了睡眠 , 所以它會影響他們的健康 。
and they live for work , achievement and control .	他們生活在工作、成果和控制 。
i'm sure that resonates with some of the tedsters .	我肯定會和一些tedsterstersterstersterstersterstersters 。
and it resonated for me . i grew up as a poor kid in the south bronx ghetto , a sicilian family everyone lived in the past and present .	對我來說 , 我是南布朗克斯•墨西哥的小小孩子 , 在南布朗克斯•蓋爾 , 一個小小的孩子 , 在南布朗克斯•蓋爾 , 在南布朗克斯區的一家人住 。
i'm here as a futureoriented person who went over the top , who did all these sacrifices because teachers intervened , and made me future oriented .	我在這裡是一位未來的成員 , 那些犧牲了 , 因為老師們介入了我 , 讓我成為未來的機會 。
told me don't eat that marshmallow , because if you wait you're going to get two of them , until i learned to balance out .	告訴我不吃 , 直到我學到平衡 , 直到我學到平衡 。
i've added presenthedonism , i've added a focus on the pastpositive , so , at 76 years old , i am more energetic than ever , more productive , and i'm happier than i have ever been .	我加入了專注於過去的比例 , 比我更有生產力 , 更有價值 , 比我更有價值 , 我也比過去更有生產力 , 我更高興 。
i just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems: changing the dropout rates of school kids , combating addictions , enhancing teen health , curing vets' ptsd with time metaphors getting miracle cures promoting sustainability and conservation , reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50percent drop out rate , altering appeals to suicidal terrorists , and modifying family conflicts as timezone clashes .	我只想說我們正在應用在許多世界問題:改變我們在學校的孩子們 , 解決方案 , 和保育 , 改善醫療照護 , 和保育 , 改善的成癮 , 和保育 , 和保育計畫 , 改善了數量的經濟學童 , 和保育 , 改善人心 , 和保育 , 改善了數十億人的死亡率 , 和保育 , 和保育 , 改善了美國的經濟學童 , 和保育 , 和保育 , 預期 , 更有50% 。
so i want to end by saying: many of life's puzzles can be solved by understanding your time perspective and that of others .	最後我想說:許多生命的謎題可以解決 , 以理解你的觀點和其他人 。
and the idea is so simple , so obvious , but i think the consequences are really profound .	這個想法很簡單 , 但我認為後果是很簡單的 。
how many of today's headlines will matter in 100 years ? 1000 ? kirk citron's " long news " project collects stories that not only matter today , but will resonate for decades even centuries to come . at ted2010 , he highlights recent headlines with the potential to shape our future .	幾百年來 , 2010年 , ted2010年 , ted2010年的《長期新聞》 , 《長期新聞》的報導 , 不僅僅是重要的 , 而是在我們未來的數目中 , 來追蹤我們的未來 。
future , global issues , media , news , science	未來 , 全球性的議題、媒體、新聞、科學 。
kirk citron: and now , the real news	kirkterron:現在 , 真正的新聞 。
we are drowning in news .	我們在新聞中看到 。
reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year .	單單單單單單單單單單單單單單單單單單一年
that's just one source .	這只是一個來源 。
my question is: how many of those stories are actually going to matter in the long run ?	我的問題是:這些故事在長期中有多少 ?
that's the idea behind the long news .	這是長久以後的概念 。
it's a project by the long now foundation , which was founded by tedsters including kevin kelly and stewart brand .	這個計畫是由tedstersterstersterstersterstersterstersterstersterstersterstersterstersterstersterstersterstersterstersterstersterstersterstersterstersterstersters
and what we're looking for is news stories that might still matter 50 or 100 or 10 , 000 years from now .	我們現在要看到的是新聞的故事 , 可能仍有50到100萬年 。
and when you look at the news through that filter , a lot falls by the wayside .	當你看新聞時 , 很多損失 。
to take the top stories from the a . p . this last year , is this going to matter in a decade ?	首先 , 去年 , 在十年內 , 要花上數十年來講這個故事嗎 ?
is this going to matter in 50 or 100 years ?	在50或100年後 , 會發生什麼事 ?
okay , that was kind of cool .	好 , 這很酷 。
but the top story of this past year was the economy , and i'm just betting that , sooner or later , this particular recession is going to be old news .	但今年的經濟是經濟成長 , 我很快就消失了 , 不久後 , 這個特定的主題是經濟 。
so , what kind of stories might make a difference for the future ?	所以 , 這些故事可能會造成什麼樣的影響 ?
well , let's take science .	咱們來談科學 。
someday , little robots will go through our bloodstreams fixing things .	有一天 , 小機器人會進入我們的血液液體 。
that someday is already here if you're a mouse .	若你是一隻老鼠 , 你就這樣了 。
some recent stories: nanobees zap tumors with real bee venom ; they're sending genes into the brain ; a robot they built that can crawl through the human body .	有些近期故事:奈米比薩克•布雷斯•安德森林 , 他們會把基因送到大腦中 , 它們會傳送到大腦中 , 它們會把基因送到大腦中 , 它們會傳送到大腦中 。
what about resources ? how are we going to feed nine billion people ?	那麼呢 ? 我們要如何餵養九十億人呢 ?
we're having trouble feeding six billion today .	我們現在已經麻煩了六十億 。
as we heard yesterday , there's over a billion people hungry .	昨天我們聽到的 , 有超過十億人餓 。
britain will starve without genetically modified crops .	英國人不會基因改造作物 。
bill gates , fortunately , has bet a billion on [agricultural] research .	比爾蓋茲 , 幸運的是 , 比爾蓋茲 , 幸運的是 , 超過十億美元 。
what about global politics ?	全球政治呢 ?
the world's going to be very different when and if china sets the agenda , and they may .	世界各地都很不一樣 , 如果中國設立了政府 , 就會變得非常不同 。
they've overtaken the u . s . as the world's biggest car market , they've overtaken germany as the largest exporter , and they've started doing dna tests on kids to choose their careers .	全球最大的汽車市場 , 他們已經開始做dna測試 , 讓他們開始做dna測試 , 來選擇他們的職涯 。
we're finding all kinds of ways to push back the limits of what we know .	我們發現各式各樣的限制 , 才能引導我們所知的限制 。
some recent discoveries: there's an ant colony from argentina that has now spread to every continent but antarctica ; there's a selfdirected robot scientist that's made a discovery soon , science may no longer need us , and life may no longer need us either ; a microbe wakes up after 120 , 000 years .	有些最近的發現 , 科學可能不再需要我們 , 但南極洲 , 科學可能不再需要我們 , 但南極洲 , 每塊大陸都已經擴大到大陸 , 但南極洲 , 科學可能不再需要我們 , 而生命可能不再需要我們 , 而生命可能不再需要我們 。
it seems that with or without us , life will go on .	似乎沒有我們 , 生命會出現 。
but my pick for the top long news story of this past year was this one: water found on the moon .	但是我在月球上發現月球的長新聞 。
makes it a lot easier to put a colony up there .	讓它更容易放棄 。
and if nasa doesn't do it , china might , or somebody in this room might write a big check .	如果nasa不會這樣做 , 中國或某人在這個房間裡 , 可能會寫出很大的檢查 。
my point is this: in the long run , some news stories are more important than others .	我的重點是:在長期中 , 有些新故事比其他人更重要 。
planetary scientist carolyn porco shows images from the cassini voyage to saturn , focusing on its largest moon , titan , and on frozen enceladus , which seems to shoot jets of ice .	行星科學家卡索林•奧林拍攝影像 , 把焦點放在它的巨大月球上 , 大月球、泰坦 , 和海岸的火星 。
nasa , design , exploration , science , space , technology , universe , visualizations	太空、科技、科學、太空、科技、宇宙 , 視覺化 。
carolyn porco flies us to saturn	卡羅琳•帕羅斯我們來到土星 。
in the next 18 minutes , i'm going to take you on a journey .	在接下來的18分鐘內 , 我會帶你去旅程 。
and it's a journey that you and i have been on for many years now , and it began some 50 years ago , when humans first stepped off our planet .	這是一段旅程 , 我已經花了幾年的時間 , 開始了一些50年前 , 人類第一次從地球上走出來 。
and in those 50 years , not only did we literally , physically set foot on the moon , but we have dispatched robotic spacecraft to all the planets all eight of them and we have landed on asteroids , we have rendezvoused with comets , and , at this point in time , we have a spacecraft on its way to pluto , the body formerly known as a planet .	在50年後 , 我們還不單單單單單單 , 我們有了太空船 , 地球上有一顆星球 , 我們有太空船 , 和彗星一起飛行 , 我們有一個太空船 , 地球上每顆行星 , 大約是一顆星球 。
and all of these robotic missions are part of a bigger human journey: a voyage to understand something , to get a sense of our cosmic place , to understand something of our origins , and how earth , our planet , and we , living on it , came to be .	所有這些機器人任務都是一個更大的人類旅程 , 去了解我們在哪裡、地球、地球、地球、地球 , 我們的生命 , 以及地球 , 以及地球 , 以及地球 , 以及地球 , 我們的生命 。
and of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this , there's saturn . and we have been to saturn before we visited saturn in the early 1980s but our investigations of saturn have become far more indepth in detail since the cassini spacecraft , traveling across interplanetary space for seven years , glided into orbit around saturn in the summer of 2004 , and became at that point the farthest robotic outpost that humanity had ever established around the sun .	地球上 , 地球上的所有地方 , 我們都開始尋找答案 , 來源於太空飛行 , 飛行星球 , 飛行星球飛行 , 到204年夏天 , 飛行星球飛行 , 太空船飛行 , 到204年夏天 , 飛行星球的飛行器 , 以至於2004年夏天 , 太空船飛行 , 以至於2004年夏天 , 以至於2004年夏天 , 太空船飛行的速度 , 直到2004年夏天 , 飛行星球飛行 , 直到2004年夏天 , 飛行星球飛行 , 直到2004年夏天 , 飛行星空飛行 。
now , the saturn system is a rich planetary system .	土星系統是個豐富的行星系統 。
it offers mystery , scientific insight and obviously splendor beyond compare , and the investigation of this system has enormous cosmic reach .	它提供了神秘、科學和明顯的調查 , 和顯然的調查系統有巨大的宇宙 。
in fact , just studying the rings alone , we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies .	事實上 , 只是研究我們所謂的 「 星星系星 」 的恆星和氣體 。
and here's a beautiful picture of the andromeda nebula , which is our closest , largest spiral galaxy to the milky way .	這裡有一個美麗的圖片 , 是我們的銀河系 。
and then , here's a beautiful composite of the whirlpool galaxy , taken by the hubble space telescope .	這裡有一個美麗的美麗的建築物 , 由哈伯太空望遠鏡拍攝 。
so the journey back to saturn is really part of and is also a metaphor for a much larger human voyage to understand the interconnectedness of everything around us , and also how humans fit into that picture .	所以 , 旅程的旅程是人類的旅程 , 也是人類的旅程 , 來了解我們周圍的事物 , 以及人類的旅程 , 來了解我們周遭的事物 , 以及人類的旅程 。
and it pains me that i can't tell you all that we have learned with cassini .	它讓我無法告訴各位 , 我們和casssini一起學到的 。
i can't show you all the beautiful pictures that we've taken in the last two and a half years , because i simply don't have the time .	我無法展示我們在過去兩年半年的美麗照片 , 因為我只是沒有時間 。
so i'm going to concentrate on two of the most exciting stories that have emerged out of this major exploratory expedition that we are conducting around saturn , and have been for the past two and a half years .	所以 , 我會把兩個最令人振奮的探險展示出來 , 以兩年半年來 。
saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons .	土星是非常龐大且多樣化的 。
they range in size from a few kilometers across to as big across as the u . s .	從幾公里的距離數公里 , 大小的距離大小 。
most of the beautiful pictures we've taken of saturn , in fact , show saturn in accompaniment with some of its moons . here's saturn with dione , and then , here's saturn showing the rings edgeon , showing you just how vertically thin they are , with the moon enceladus .	我們所拍攝的美麗照片是從土星上看到的土星 , 上面有土星 , 土星是土星 , 上面有土星 , 土星是土星的 , 土星是土星 , 土星是土星 , 包括月亮的土星 , 和月球 。
now , two of the 47 moons that saturn has are standouts .	現在 , 247個月球是站起來的 。
and those are titan and enceladus . titan is saturn's largest moon , and , until cassini had arrived there , was the largest single expanse of unexplored terrain that we had remaining in our solar system .	這些都是土衛星球 , 直到卡西斯 , 泰坦是土衛星球 , 直到凱西 , 泰坦是土衛星球 , 直到卡西尼 , 我們已經做到了 , 直到柬埔寨 , 我們在太陽系中做出了最大的災難 。
and it is a body that has long intrigued people who've watched the planets .	它是個身體 , 有很長的貢獻 , 人們已經看過地球 。
it has a very large , thick atmosphere , and in fact , its surface environment was believed to be more like the environment we have here on the earth , or at least had in the past , than any other body in the solar system .	它有很大的氣體 , 事實上 , 它的環境很大 , 更像環境的環境 , 我們在地球上 , 甚至在地球上 , 或至少在地球上 , 甚至在地球上 , 而事實上 , 它的環境也很大 。
its atmosphere is largely molecular nitrogen , like you are breathing here in this room , except that its atmosphere is suffused with simple organic materials like methane and propane and ethane .	大氣層的大氣層是大氣層 , 如甲烷、甲烷、甲烷和天空 。
and these molecules high up in the atmosphere of titan get broken down , and their products join together to make haze particles .	這些分子在大氣層的大氣層上升高 , 它們的大氣層 , 會形成結合在一起 , 形成結合在一起 。
this haze is ubiquitous . it's completely global and enveloping titan .	這很荒唐 , 完全是完全全球化的 。
and that's why you cannot see down to the surface with our eyes in the visible region of the spectrum .	這就是為什麼你無法在視角的區域中看到我們的眼睛 。
but these haze particles , it was surmised , before we got there with cassini , over billions and billions of years , gently drifted down to the surface and coated the surface in a thick organic sludge .	但這些洞穴 , 在我們有幾十億年間 , 在我們有了幾十億年間 , 在我們有了海岸 , 和十億年間 , 大量地表面 , 來到地表表面 , 來到表面上 , 和十億年 , 直到海平面上升 。
so like the equivalent , the titan equivalent , of tar , or oil , or what we didn't know what .	所以 , 不管是石油 , 或石油 , 我們不知道什麼 。
but this is what we suspected . and these molecules , especially methane and ethane , can be liquids at the surface temperatures of titan .	但這是我們所見到的 , 尤其是甲烷和天空 , 尤其是甲烷和天空 , 尤其是甲烷和天空 。
and so it turns out that methane is to titan what water is to the earth .	結果發現 , 甲烷是地球上的水 。
it's a condensable in the atmosphere , and so recognizing this circumstance brought to the fore a whole world of bizarre possibilities . you can have methane clouds , ok , and above those clouds , you have this hundreds of kilometers of haze , which prevent any sunlight from getting to the surface .	在大氣層中 , 你有數百公里的雲霄飛車 , 那些雲霄飛車 , 你有數百公里的空氣 , 那些雲霄飛車 , 你有數百公里的水泥 , 那些雲霄飛車 。
the temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero fahrenheit .	表面上的溫度是350度 , 表面的溫度是350度 。
but despite that cold , you could have rain falling down on the surface of titan .	但儘管寒冷 , 你可以雨落在土地上下降 。
and doing on titan what rain does on the earth: it carves gullies ; it forms rivers and cataracts ; it can create canyons ; it can pool in large basins and craters .	在土地上 , 它可以形成河流和火星 ; 它可以形成河流和火箭 , 它可以形成河流和火箭 。
it can wash the sludge off high mountain peaks and hills , down into the lowlands . so stop and think for a minute .	它可以在低地下降到低地 , 下降到低地 , 所以停下來想想 。
try to imagine what the surface of titan might look like .	試著想像一下海平面的表面 。
it's dark . high noon on titan is as dark as deep earth twilight on the earth .	黑暗是黑暗 , 深地地球上的黑暗 。
it's cold , it's eerie , it's misty , it might be raining , and you might be standing on the shores of lake michigan brimming with paint thinner .	它很冷 , 很冷 , 很冷 , 很冷 , 很冷 , 很冷 , 很寒冷 , 很寒冷 , 很冷靜 , 可能是雨水 。
that is the view that we had of the surface of titan before we got there with cassini , and i can tell you that what we have found on titan , though it is not the same in detail , is every bit as fascinating as that story is .	這是我們在泰坦的角落 , 和凱西班牙的觀點 , 我可以告訴各位 , 我們在泰坦的觀點 , 沒有同樣的細節 , 還能告訴你們 , 我們在泰坦的觀點 , 和卡西斯坦的觀點 , 我可以告訴各位 。
and for us , it has been like the cassini people it has been like a jules verne adventure come true .	對我們來說 , 它就像是卡西斯坦人一樣 , 它就像是卡西班牙人 , 它就像是卡西斯坦人 。
as i said , it has a thick , extensive atmosphere .	如同我所說的 , 它有厚度的大氣層 。
this is a picture of titan , backlit by the sun , with the rings as a beautiful backdrop .	這張照片是來自太陽的照片 , 由太陽拍攝 , 背後的照片 。
and yet another moon there i don't even know which one it is . it's a very extensive atmosphere .	還有另一個月球 , 我甚至不知道它是哪一個月球 , 它是極大的大氣層 。
we have instruments on cassini which can see down to the surface through this atmosphere , and my camera system is one of them .	我們在大氣層的儀器 , 和攝影機制度相機系統是其中之一 。
and we have taken pictures like this .	我們拍攝了照片 。
and what you see is bright and dark regions , and that's about as far as it got for us .	你看到的是亮暗的區域 , 和黑暗區域的區域 , 就這樣 。
it was so mystifying: we couldn't make out what we were seeing on titan .	很神奇的是:我們不能讓我們看到在泰坦 。
when you look closer at this region , you start to see things like sinuous channels we didn't know . you see a few round things .	當你仔細觀察這個區域時 , 你會看到一些圓圈 , 像是我們不認識的 。 你看到一些圓圈 。
this , we later found out , is , in fact , a crater , but there are very few craters on the surface of titan , meaning it's a very young surface .	後來我們發現了 , 其實 , 其實是一個非常年輕的表面 。
and there are features that look tectonic .	有些特性看起來很直覺 。
they look like they've been pulled apart .	他們看起來像是他們被丟棄 。
whenever you see anything linear on a planet , it means there's been a fracture , like a fault .	只要你看到任何線條 , 它代表的是 , 像是個錯 。
and so it's been tectonically altered .	所以它一直都是電動 。
but we couldn't make sense of our images , until , six months after we got into orbit , an event occurred that many have regarded as the highlight of cassini's investigation of titan .	但是我們還沒辦法理解我們的影像 , 直到六個月後 , 我們就開始了 , 直到六個月之後 , 直到六個月之後 , 直到六個月之後 , 直到 , 直到 , 直到六個月後 , 我們就開始了 。
and that was the deployment of the huygens probe , the europeanbuilt huygens probe that cassini had carried for seven years across the solar system . we deployed it to the atmosphere of titan , it took two and a half hours to descend , and it landed on the surface .	這是哈根帝國的大氣層 , 一半小時 , 太陽系 , 我們把它放在地面上 , 將它放在地面上 , 大約有兩半小時 。
and i just want to emphasize how significant an event this is .	我只是想強調這一點 。
this is a device of human making , and it landed in the outer solar system for the first time in human history .	這是人類製造的裝置 , 它在人類歷史上 , 它在人類史上第一次出現 。
it is so significant that , in my mind , this was an event that should have been celebrated with ticker tape parades in every city across the u . s . and europe , and sadly , that wasn't the case .	在我心中 , 這個事件很顯然 , 在我心中 , 美國和歐洲 , 很有意義 , 不管是這個案例 。
it was significant for another reason . this is an international mission , and this event was celebrated in europe , in germany , and the celebratory presentations were given in english accents , and american accents , and german accents , and french and italian and dutch accents .	很明顯的 , 這是一個國際任務 。 這是一個國際任務 。 這是國際任務 。 這是國際任務 。 這是國際任務 。 這是國際任務 。 這是國際任務 。 這是國際任務 。 這是國際任務 。 這是國際任務 。 這是國際任務 。 這是國際任務 。 這是國際任務 。 這是國際任務 。 這是國際任務 。
it was a moving demonstration of what the words " united nations " are supposed to mean: a true union of nations joined together in a colossal effort for good .	它是 「 聯合國 」 的 「 聯合國 」 的協調 , 代表 「 聯合國 」 的 「 聯合國 」 的協調 。
and , in this case , it was a massive undertaking to explore a planet , and to come to understand a planetary system that , for all of human history , had been unreachable , and now humans had actually touched it .	在這個案例中 , 人類史上是很大膽的 , 來了解一個行星系統 , 人類的歷史 , 人類史上 , 人類史上 , 都不可思議 , 但現在人類的人類歷史是很大的 。
so it was i mean , i'm getting goose bumps just talking about it .	所以這是我說的 , 我是要說謊言 。
it was a tremendously emotional event , and it's something that i will personally never forget , and you shouldn't either .	它是個極端的情緒活動 , 我個人永遠不會忘記 , 你也不應該這麼做 。
but anyway , the probe took measurements of the atmosphere on the way down , and it also took panoramic pictures .	但 , 除此之外 , 它也採取了大氣層的大氣層 。
and i can't tell you what it was like to see the first pictures of titan's surface from the probe . and this is what we saw .	我無法告訴你們 , 這是我們看到的第一張照片 , 這是我們看到的 。
and it was a shocker , because it was everything we wanted those other pictures taken from orbit to be .	這很震驚 , 因為它是我們想要其他照片從軌道上拍攝的 。
it was an unambiguous pattern , a geological pattern .	這是一個無形式的模式 , 地理模式 。
it's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids .	它是一種形式的形狀 , 可以形成只液體的形狀 。
and you can follow these channels and you can see how they all converge .	你可以追蹤這些頻道 , 你可以追蹤這些頻道 。
and they converge into this channel here , which drains into this region .	他們會把這條路帶到這個區域 。
you are looking at a shoreline .	你在看海岸線 。
was this a shoreline of fluids ? we didn't know .	這是液體的流感嗎 ? 我們不知道 。
but this is somewhat of a shoreline .	但這就是海岸線上 。
this picture is taken at 16 kilometers .	這張照片是16公里 。
this is the picture taken at eight kilometers , ok ? again , the shoreline .	這張照片是8公里的影像 , 海岸線 。
okay , now , 16 kilometers , eight kilometers this is roughly an airline altitude .	好 , 現在 , 16公里 , 8公里 , 公里 , 8公里 , 很高 。
if you were going to take an airplane trip across the u . s . , you would be flying at these altitudes .	如果你要把飛機飛到美國 , 你就會飛行 。
so , this is the picture you would have at the window of titanian airlines as you fly across the surface of titan .	這是你在tedanian航線上看到的影片 。
and then finally , the probe came to rest on the surface , and i'm going to show you , ladies and gentlemen , the first picture ever taken from the surface of a moon in the outer solar system .	最後 , 我會向各位展示 , 女士先生們 , 先從月球表面上拍攝的照片 。
and here is the horizon , ok ?	這裡是地平線 , 好嗎 ?
these are probably water ice pebbles , yes ?	這些可能是水冰泡 , 是嗎 ?
and obviously , it landed in one of these flat , dark regions and it didn't sink out of sight . so it wasn't fluid that we landed in .	很顯然地 , 它在一片漆黑的區域中 , 深深地位置 , 不管我們在哪裡 。
what the probe came down in was basically the titan equivalent of a mud flat .	基本上 , 基本上是一座泥土的土地 。
this is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane .	這是一種不可思議的地面 , 它被稱為液態甲烷 。
and it's probably the case that this material has washed off the highlands of titan through these channels that we saw , and has drained over billions of years to fill in lowlying basins .	可能是這些頻率的高土地 , 我們看到的 , 還剩下了幾十億年 , 讓這些海平面上升高地 。
and that is what the huygens probe landed in .	這就是人類的原始碼 。
but still , there was no sign in our images , or even in the huygens' images , of any large , open bodies of fluids .	但 , 還是在我們的影像中 , 沒有任何大型的圖片 , 我們的影像 , 或甚至在我們的影像中 , 沒有標誌的影像 。
where were they ? it got even more puzzling when we found dunes .	牠們在哪裡 ? 甚至更讓人困惑 。
ok , so this is our movie of the equatorial region of titan , showing these dunes . these are dunes that are 100 meters tall , separated by a few kilometers , and they go on for miles and miles and miles .	好吧 , 我們的電影是一百公里 , 由幾公里 , 拍攝的電影 , 它們是一百公里、英里和英里 。
there's hundreds , up to a 1 , 000 or 1 , 200 miles of dunes .	大約有10000或1 , 000到1 , 000或1 , 000或1 , 000或1 , 000到1 , 000或1 。
this is the saharan desert of titan .	這是撒哈拉沙漠的沙漠 。
it's obviously a place which is very dry , or you wouldn't get dunes .	很顯然 , 很乾燥 , 或你不會被丟棄 。
so again , it got puzzling that there were no bodies of fluid , until finally , we saw lakes in the polar regions .	再次 , 直到最後 , 我們看到湖泊在北極地區 。
and there is a lake scene in the south polar region of titan .	在南極洲地區有一個湖景 。
it's about the size of lake ontario .	大小的大小 。
and then , only a week and a half ago , we flew over the north pole of titan and found , again , we found a feature here the size of the caspian sea .	再一次 , 我們在北極的北極大小 , 再次發現 , 我們在北極的北極點 , 我們發現 , 一個星期半前 , 我們飛過北極洲 , 來到北極洲 。
so it seems that the liquids , for some reason we don't understand , or during at least this season , are apparently at the poles of titan .	所以 , 似乎 , 很顯然 , 我們不了解 , 或至少在這個季節上 , 很顯然地 , 正是海岸的原因 。
and i think you would agree that we have found titan is a remarkable , mystical place . it's exotic , it's alien , but yet strangely earthlike , and having earthlike geological formations and a tremendous geographical diversity , and is a fascinating world whose only rival in the solar system for complexity and richness is the earth itself .	我認為你會同意 , 地球上是很神奇的 , 但奇怪的是 , 地球本身是很奇怪的 , 地球本身是很不可思議的 , 很奇怪的是 , 它是外星人 , 很奇怪的是 , 它是外星人 , 很奇怪的是 , 它是外星人 , 很奇怪的是 , 它是外星人 , 很奇怪的是 , 它是外星人 , 很奇怪的是 , 它是外星人 , 很奇怪的是 , 它是外星人 , 很奇怪的是 , 它是外星人 。
and so now we go onto enceladus . enceladus is a small moon , it's about a tenth the size of titan . and you can see it here next to england , just to show you the size . this is not meant to be a threat .	現在我們來看看大小的月球 , 大小的月球 , 大約是一小月球 , 大約是一小月球 , 大概是一小月球 , 而你可以看到它在英格蘭 , 只能給你看 , 這不是代表威脅 。
and enceladus is very white , it's very bright , and its surface is obviously wrecked with fractures .	真是白色 , 它很明顯 , 很明顯地表面很明顯 。
it is a very geologically active body .	它是個非常地理性的身體 。
but the mother lode of discoveries on enceladus was found at the south pole and we're looking at the south pole here where we found this system of fractures .	但在南極的北極地區 , 我們發現這個系統 , 我們發現了這個系統 。
and they're a different color because they're a different composition .	他們是不同的顏色因為它們是不同的顏色
they are coated . these fractures are coated with organic materials .	它們是有機物質的 。
moreover , this whole , entire region , the south polar region , has elevated temperatures . it's the hottest place on the planet , on the body .	此外 , 這整個區域 , 整個區域 , 地球上最熱的地方 , 整個區域 , 整個區域 , 整個區域 , 整個區域 , 整個區域 。
that's as bizarre as finding that the antarctic on the earth is hotter than the tropics .	這比起熱帶的北極熱帶 , 地球上有熱帶 。
and then , when we took additional pictures , we discovered that from these fractures are issuing jets of fine , icy particles extending hundreds of miles into space .	接著 , 我們發現從這些碎片中發現 , 這些碎片是非常高的 , 我們發現 , 從這些碎片中發現 , 這些碎片是非常漂亮的 , 直到幾百英里 。
and when we colorcode this image , to bring out the faint light levels , we see that these jets feed a plume that , in fact , we see , in other images , goes thousands of miles into the space above enceladus .	而當我們看到這些噴射光線時 , 我們看到這些噴射光線 , 我們看到的 , 在其他影像中 , 數千英里以外的光線 。
my team and i have examined images like this , and like this one , and have thought about the other results from cassini .	我的團隊和我的影像一樣 , 還會看到類似這樣的圖像 , 像是這個 , 像是這張照片 , 像是這張圖片 , 像是這個 , 像是這個 , 像是這個 。
and we have arrived at the conclusion that these jets may be erupting from pockets of liquid water under the surface of enceladus .	我們也發現 , 這些噴灑水的液態水源是從水底下的結合 。
so we have , possibly , liquid water , organic materials and excess heat .	所以 , 我們有機物質 , 液態水、有機物質、有機物質 。
in other words , we have possibly stumbled upon the holy grail of modern day planetary exploration , or in other words , an environment that is potentially suitable for living organisms .	換句話說 , 我們有著可能性的地點 , 可能是現代的環境 , 可能是適合生存的環境 。
and i don't think i need to tell you that the discovery of life elsewhere in our solar system , whether it be on enceladus or elsewhere , would have enormous cultural and scientific implications .	我不認為我需要告訴你們 , 在我們的太陽系中 , 我們太陽系裡的發現 , 不管是在太陽系中 , 或其他地方 , 它會有巨大的文化和科學 。
because if we could demonstrate that genesis had occurred not once , but twice , independently , in our solar system , then that means , by inference , it has occurred a staggering number of times throughout the universe and its 13 . 7 billion year history .	因為如果我們能證明它的基因會發生在我們的太陽系中 , 但兩次 , 我們的太陽系中 , 它已經發生了幾次 , 在我們的太陽系中 , 它已經發生了幾次 , 在我們的太陽系中 , 它已經發生了幾次 , 在我們的太陽系中 , 它已經發生了幾次 , 在我們的太陽系中 , 它已經發生了幾次 , 在我們的太陽系中 , 它已經發生了幾次 , 在我們的太陽系中 , 它已經發生了幾次 。
right now , earth is the only planet still that we know is teeming with life .	現在 , 地球只是我們所知的地球 , 地球是唯一的地球 。
it is precious , it is unique , it is still , so far , the only home we've ever known .	它很不可思議 , 直到目前 , 我們已經知道 。
and if any of you were alert and coherent during the 1960s and we'd forgive you , if you weren't , ok you would remember this very famous picture taken by the apollo 8 astronauts in 1968 .	如果你不記得 , 你記得這張照片是1968年在1968年所拍攝的 。
it was the first time that earth was imaged from space , and it had an enormous impact on our sense of place in the universe , and our sense of responsibility for the protection of our own planet .	這是從太空中拍攝的 , 地球上有巨大的影響 , 我們對於保護我們自己的星球有巨大的影響 。
well , we on cassini have taken an equivalent first , a picture that no human eye has ever seen before .	首先 , 人類眼睛沒有人眼見過 。
it is a total eclipse of the sun , seen from the other side of saturn .	這是天空的天空 , 太陽從另一邊的土星 。
and in this impossibly beautiful picture , you see the main rings backlit by the sun , you see the refracted image of the sun and you see this ring created , in fact , by the exhalations of enceladus .	在這張圖片中 , 你看到了太陽的光譜 , 你看到的是太陽的光譜 , 由太陽的光譜 , 你看到的 , 是太陽的光譜 , 其實是太陽的光譜 。
but as if that weren't brilliant enough , we can spot , in this beautiful image , sight of our own planet , cradled in the arms of saturn's rings .	但如果這美麗的影像不夠 , 我們就可以在這個美麗的影像中 , 把我們自己的星球拍攝 , 以外星的角度來看 。
now , there is something deeply moving about seeing ourselves from afar , and capturing the sight of our little , blueocean planet in the skies of other worlds .	現在 , 有些深深深刻地觀察我們 , 並且捕捉我們的小小、藍色的藍色區域 。
and that , and the perspective of ourselves that we gain from that , may be , in the end , the finest reward that we earn from this journey of discovery that started half a century ago .	而我們從這段旅程中學到的 , 就是從這段旅程中 , 最有利的獎勵 , 是我們從這段旅程中獲得的獎勵 。
as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped . this slows the delivery of aid after a disaster and hides the economic potential of unused lands and unknown roads . in this short talk , google's lalitesh katragadda demos map maker , a group mapmaking tool that people around the globe are using to map their world .	2005年 , 只有15%的人都在這個短暫地地地圖地地圖地地圖地地圖地地圖地地地地地圖地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地地圖 。
collaboration , design , map , technology	合作、設計、地圖、設計、地圖 。
lalitesh katragadda: making maps to fight disaster , build economies	laliteshkatragadddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd:建立經濟
in 2008 , cyclone nargis devastated myanmar .	2008年 , 在2008年 , 奧克蘭納爾格•納爾格•納爾格•納爾格斯瓦斯 。
millions of people were in severe need of help .	數百萬人都需要幫助 。
the u . n . wanted to rush people and supplies to the area .	聯合國 , 想要讓人民和供應商品 。
but there were no maps , no maps of roads , no maps showing hospitals , no way for help to reach the cyclone victims .	但沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地地圖 , 沒有地圖 ,
when we look at a map of los angeles or london , it is hard to believe that as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geocodable level of detail .	當我們看看洛杉磯或倫敦的地圖 , 很難相信2005年 , 只有15%的地圖是地地地圖 。
the u . n . ran headfirst into a problem that the majority of the world's populous faces: not having detailed maps .	聯合國 , 世界各地地圖 , 沒有詳細地圖 。
but help was coming .	但 , 協助來來 。
at google , 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120 , 000 kilometers of roads , 3 , 000 hospitals , logistics and relief points .	在google , 40個志願者使用了一個新的軟體來地圖 , 三千個醫院、邏輯和信息 。
and it took them four days .	花了四天 。
the new software they used ? google mapmaker .	他們使用的新軟體 ? google地圖 。
google mapmaker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally .	google地圖 , 是我們所知地地地圖的科技 。
people have used this software to map everything from roads to rivers , from schools to local businesses , and video stores to the corner store .	人們用這種軟體來地圖地圖 , 從路河到地地地圖 , 從路河到地地地圖 , 從路河到地地地圖 , 從路線上 , 從路河到地地地圖 。
nobel prize nominee hernando de soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land .	諾貝爾獎金恩•諾貝爾獎勵她諾貝爾獎勵的關鍵 , 就是把大量的大規模擴大到經濟領域 。
for example , a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapitalized in india alone .	舉例來說 , 一兆美金的兆美元在印度單獨立即 。
in the last year alone , thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information , and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable .	去年 , 超過170個國家有數百萬個資訊 , 以上千名使用者 , 建立了一張地圖 , 建立一個地圖 , 從未想過的地圖 。
and this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere .	由熱情使用者所擁有的力量 。
let's look at some of the maps being created by users right now .	咱們來看看一些地圖是由使用者所組成 。
so , as we speak , people are mapping the world in these 170 countries .	所以 , 如同我們所說的 , 人們在這個世界中 , 將這170個國家 。
you can see bridget in africa who just mapped a road in senegal .	你可以看到橋樑在非洲的橋樑 , 在非洲的橋樑上走路 。
and , closer to home , chalua , an n . g . road in bangalore .	更靠近家 , 卡路 , 加爾 , 加爾 。
this is the result of computational geometry , gesture recognition , and machine learning .	這是計算幾何學的結果 , 以及機器學習 。
this is a victory of thousands of users , in hundreds of cities , one user , one edit at a time .	這是數以千計的數以千計的人數以千計的數以千計
this is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet .	這是一個邀請我們在地球上百分之七十 。
welcome to the new world .	歡迎來到新世界
in 2003 , the palestinian village of budrus mounted a 10monthlong nonviolent protest to stop a barrier being built across their olive groves . did you hear about it ? didn't think so . brazilian filmmaker julia bacha asks why we only pay attention to violence in the israelpalestine conflict and not to the nonviolent leaders who may one day bring peace .	在2003年 , 巴西比亞•巴西比亞•巴西亞•巴西亞•巴西亞•巴西亞•巴西亞•布魯斯•布魯斯•布魯斯•布魯斯•布魯斯•布魯斯提出了一千萬個非暴力的抗爭者 , 來阻止阻止障礙 , 來阻止阻止阻止障礙 , 來阻止阻止障礙 , 來阻止阻止障礙 , 來阻止阻止障礙 , 來阻止阻止障礙 , 來阻止阻止障礙 , 來阻止阻止障礙 , 來阻止阻止障礙 。
arts , communication , compassion , entertainment , film , peace , violence , war	藝術、和平、電影、和平、和平、和平、電影、和平、電影、和平 。
julia bacha: pay attention to nonviolence	朱利亞:注意到非暴力 。
for the last 8 years , i have dedicated my life to documenting the work of israelis and palestinians who are trying to end the conflict using peaceful means .	過去8年來 , 我一直在試圖終結結合和平行的作品 , 以色列和巴勒斯坦人 , 以色列與巴勒斯坦人說話 。
when i travel with my work across europe and the united states , one question always comes up: where is the palestinian gandhi ?	當我在歐洲和美國 , 一個問題總是出現在歐洲和美國 , 一個問題總是出現:這是巴勒斯坦甘地嗎 ?
why aren't palestinians using nonviolent resistance ?	為什麼不是巴勒斯坦人使用非暴力的抗爭 ?
the challenge i face when i hear this question is that often i have just returned from the middle east where i spent my time filming dozens of palestinians who are using nonviolence to defend their lands and water resources from israeli soldiers and settlers .	當我聽到這問題時 , 我聽到這問題時 , 我聽到這問題時 , 通常我花了幾年的時間 , 用非暴力來保護他們的土地和水資源 , 來保護他們的土地和水資源 。
these leaders are trying to forge a massive national nonviolent movement to end the occupation and build peace in the region .	這些領導者正在嘗試 , 以非暴力運動來終結盟友 , 並在區域中建立和平 。
yet , most of you have probably never heard about them .	然而 , 大部分的人都可能從來沒有聽過他們 。
this divide between what's happening on the ground and perceptions abroad is one of the key reasons why we don't have yet a palestinian peaceful resistance movement that has been successful .	這分裂在地面和平方的抗爭之處 , 是因為我們沒有人和平的抗爭 , 是因為我們沒有人和正義的抗爭者 。
so i'm here today to talk about the power of attention , the power of your attention , and the emergence and development of nonviolent movements in the west bank , gaza and elsewhere but today , my case study is going to be palestine .	今天我要來談談關於注意力的力量 , 和你關注的力量 , 和你關注的力量 , 和你關注的力量 , 和你關注的力量 , 和你關注的力量 , 和你注意力的力量 , 在西岸和非暴力運動中 , 你的注意力是巴勒斯坦 。
i believe that what's mostly missing for nonviolence to grow is not for palestinians to start adopting nonviolence , but for us to start paying attention to those who already are .	我相信 , 對於非暴力的非暴力 , 而是為了我們開始對抗非暴力的暴力 , 但對我們來說 , 對非暴力來說 , 那些已經有了不起的 。
allow me to illustrate this point by taking you to this village called budrus .	讓我來說明這個村莊的村莊 , 叫做布魯斯 。
about seven years ago , they faced extinction , because israel announced it would build a separation barrier , and part of this barrier would be built on top of the village .	大約七年前 , 他們面臨絕跡 , 因為伊斯蘭會在村莊裡建立一個公寓的區域 。
they would lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded , so they would lose free access to the rest of the west bank .	他們會失去百分之四十的土地 , 所以他們會失去了40%的土地 , 所以他們會失去他們的土地 , 所以他們會失去了40%的土地 。
through inspired local leadership , they launched a peaceful resistance campaign to stop that from happening .	透過啟發性活動 , 他們開啟了一個和平的抗議活動 , 他們發起了一個和平的抗議活動 。
let me show you some brief clips , so you have a sense for what that actually looked like on the ground .	讓我向你們展示一些短暫的影片 , 讓你們看看一些短片 , 讓你們看看一些短暫的感覺 。
palestinian woman: we were told the wall would separate palestine from israel .	巴勒斯坦:我們被告知牆壁會分開巴勒斯坦女性 。
here in budrus , we realized the wall would steal our land .	在布德魯斯 , 我們意識到牆壁會帶我們的土地 。
israeli man: the fence has , in fact , created a solution to terror .	伊斯蘭人:實際上 , 他創造了一個解決方案 。
man: today you're invited to a peaceful march .	男人:今天你被邀請到一個和平的婚姻 。
you are joined by dozens of your israeli brothers and sisters .	你已經加入了數十人的兄弟和姊妹 。
israeli activist: nothing scares the army more than nonviolent opposition .	非暴力的反對 , 不是非暴力的反對 。
woman: we saw the men trying to push the soldiers , but none of them could do that .	女士:我們看到了男人試圖鼓勵士兵 , 但沒有人能做到 。
but i think the girls could do it .	但我認為女孩們可以做到 。
fatah party member: we must empty our minds of traditional thinking .	安排:我們必須擁抱我們的思想 。
hamas party member: we were in complete harmony , and we wanted to spread it to all of palestine .	哈馬斯•安德森:我們是全部的巴勒斯黨員 , 我們想要把它放到全部 。
chanting: one united nation .	聯合國:一個聯合國
fatah , hamas and the popular front !	嗯 , 哈馬和歡迎 。
news anchor: the clashes over the fence continue .	新聞報導者:在那邊的管子繼續下去 。
reporter: israeli border police were sent to disperse the crowd .	記者:伊莉•布雷德警察被評分為警察 。
they were allowed to use any force necessary .	他們被允許使用任何力量 。
man: these are live bullets .	男人:這些是活躍的 。
it's like fallujah . shooting everywhere .	像夏娃娃娃娃娃娃一樣 。
israeli activist: i was sure we were all going to die .	伊拉利行動主義者:我肯定我們都死了 。
but there were others around me who weren't even cowering .	但還有其他我甚至沒有合作的人 。
israeli soldier: a nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear] .	伊莉士:非暴力抗爭 , 不是阻止戰爭 。
protester: this is a peaceful march .	安德森:這是個和平的遊行 。
there is no need to use violence .	沒有必要使用暴力 。
chanting: we can do it ! we can do it !	克里斯:我們能做到它 ! 我們可以做到 !
julia bacha: when i first heard about the story of budrus , i was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago , in 2003 .	朱利亞:當我第一次聽到關於布魯斯的故事時 , 我很驚訝 , 國際媒體失敗了 , 在2003年 , 國際媒體失敗了 。
what was even more surprising was the fact that budrus was successful .	更令人驚訝的是 , 布魯斯成功了 。
the residents , after 10 months of peaceful resistance , convinced the israeli government to move the route of the barrier off their lands and to the green line , which is the internationally recognized boundary between israel and the palestinian territories .	在十個月之後 , 阿拉伯和巴勒斯坦國際協調 , 以色列和巴勒斯坦的土地和巴勒斯坦人聯繫起來 。
the resistance in budrus has since spread to villages across the west bank and to palestinian neighborhoods in jerusalem .	巴勒斯坦的鄰居在耶路撒冷河岸邊走到巴勒斯坦街坊 。
yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories .	但媒體仍然很沉默 。
this silence carries profound consequences for the likelihood that nonviolence can grow , or even survive , in palestine .	這種沉默的後果可以增長 , 甚至生存 , 甚至生存 , 或甚至生存 。
violent resistance and nonviolent resistance share one very important thing in common ; they are both a form of theater seeking an audience to their cause .	暴力的抗爭和非暴力主義和非暴力的抗爭 , 他們都是一種共同點 , 他們都是一個共同點子的共同點 。
if violent actors are the only ones constantly getting frontpage covers and attracting international attention to the palestinian issue , it becomes very hard for nonviolent leaders to make the case to their communities that civil disobedience is a viable option in addressing their plight .	假如暴力的領導者 , 只能把國際關注放在巴勒斯坦問題上 , 難以避免受害者 , 使他們在巴勒斯坦議題上 , 使他們看到這些問題 , 會變得非常困難 , 非暴力的領導者 。
the power of attention is probably going to come as no surprise to the parents in the room .	注意力的注意力可能不會讓人驚訝 。
the surest way to make your child throw increasingly louder tantrums is by giving him attention the first time he throws a fit .	要讓孩子長久以來 , 他注意到他的注意力 , 就是把他的注意力轉換給他注意 。
the tantrum will become what childhood psychologists call a functional behavior , since the child has learned that he can get parental attention out of it .	trum會成為童年心理學家稱之為功能行為 , 從孩子學到 , 孩子們就開始學習它 。
parents can incentivize or disincentivize behavior simply by giving or withdrawing attention to their children .	父母可以專注於他們的孩子 , 或缺乏行為的行為 。
but that's true for adults too .	對成年人來說也是如此 。
in fact , the behavior of entire communities and countries can be influenced , depending on where the international community chooses to focus its attention .	事實上 , 整個社區和國家的行為都可以影響 , 讓國際社區選擇聚焦點注意 。
i believe that at the core of ending the conflict in the middle east and bringing peace is for us to transform nonviolence into a functional behavior by giving a lot more attention to the nonviolent leaders on the ground today .	我相信 , 在中東和平 , 將非暴力領袖帶給我們改變非暴力的領導者 , 來改變非暴力的領導者 。
in the course of taking my film to villages in the west bank , in gaza and in east jerusalem , i have seen the impact that even one documentary film can have in influencing the transformation .	在我的電影中 , 加薩和東部的影片 , 加薩和東部的影片 , 我看到了影響力的影響 。
in a village called wallajeh , which sits very close to jerusalem , the community was facing a very similar plight to budrus .	在村莊的村莊裡 , 社區和布德魯斯的村落非常相似 。
they were going to be surrounded , lose a lot of their lands and not have freedom of access , either to the west bank or jerusalem .	他們會被圍繞著 , 失去了許多土地 , 沒有自由 , 來到西岸或耶路撒冷 。
they had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention .	他們花了兩年的時間 , 因為沒有人注意到 。
so we organized a screening .	所以我們組織了一個屏幕 。
a week later , they held the most wellattended and disciplined demonstration to date .	一週後 , 他們告訴了最好的解答和分裂 。
the organizers say that the villagers , upon seeing the story of budrus documented in a film , felt that there were indeed people following what they were doing , that people cared .	組織者說 , 在電影裡 , 人們會注意到 , 那些人在電影裡 , 看到他們在電影中看到的故事 , 那些人會說 。
so they kept on going .	所以他們不斷地繼續下去 。
on the israeli side , there is a new peace movement called solidariot , which means solidarity in hebrew .	右邊是伊斯蘭教徒 , 它代表了 「 伊斯蘭教徒 」 。
the leaders of this movement have been using budrus as one of their primary recruiting tools .	這項運動的領導者是使用布達達成的主要招募工具 。
they report that israelis who had never been active before , upon seeing the film , understand the power of nonviolence and start joining their activities .	他們報導了非暴力的力量 , 並開始加入他們的行動 。
the examples of wallajeh and the solidariot movement show that even a smallbudget independent film can play a role in transforming nonviolence into a functional behavior .	華爾和蘇莉戲劇院的例子 , 可以扮演角色扮演角色扮演角色扮演角色扮演角色扮演角色扮演角色扮演角色扮演角色角色扮演角色扮演角色角色扮演角色 。
now imagine the power that big media players could have if they started covering the weekly nonviolent demonstrations happening in villages like bil'in , ni'lin , wallajeh , in jerusalem neighborhoods like sheikh jarrah and silwan the nonviolent leaders would become more visible , valued and effective in their work .	想像一下 , 大型媒體玩家的力量 , 可以讓他們開始處理這些非暴力的暴力行為 , 像是布爾拉、珍珠、珍珠、珍珠、珍珠、珍珠、珍珠 , 和效果的影響力 。
i believe that the most important thing is to understand that if we don't pay attention to these efforts , they are invisible , and it's as if they never happened .	我相信最重要的事就是要了解如果我們不把注意力放在這些努力上 , 它們是無法注意到的 , 它們是從來不會發生的 。
but i have seen first hand that if we do , they will multiply .	但我看過第一手 , 如果我們這麼做 , 它們就會多 。
if they multiply , their influence will grow in the overall israelipalestinian conflict .	如果他們多麼 , 他們的影響就會成長在巴勒斯坦的衝突中 。
and theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation .	他們的影響 , 終於無法阻止這個情況 。
these leaders have proven that nonviolence works in places like budrus .	這些領導者證明 , 非暴力在像布德魯斯一樣 。
let's give them attention so they can prove it works everywhere .	讓我們給他們注意力 , 讓他們能證明它的工作 。
simon sinek has a simple but powerful model for inspirational leadership all starting with a golden circle and the question " why ? " his examples include apple , martin luther king , and the wright brothers . . .	史蒂芬•蓋爾•金恩是很簡單的 , 他的案例是: 「 為什麼 ? 」 他的例子包括蘋果、馬丁路德、馬丁路德•金恩 , 還有他的例子 。
bullseye , business , entrepreneur , leadership , sales , selling , success	商業、企業、企業家、企業家、企業家、企業家、企業家、企業家、企業家、企業家、企業家、企業家、企業家、企業家、企業家、企業家 。
simon sinek: how great leaders inspire action	sinek:偉大的領導者啟發了行動 。
how do you explain when things don't go as we assume ?	你怎麼解釋當我們不認為我們假設時 , 會如何 ?
or better , how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions ?	或更好 , 你如何解釋其他事情的結果 , 才能達成更好的事物 , 才能達成更好的事物 ?
for example: why is apple so innovative ?	例如:為什麼蘋果很創新呢 ?
year after year , after year , after year , they're more innovative than all their competition .	一年後 , 他們比所有的競爭更創新 。
and yet , they're just a computer company .	然而 , 他們只是電腦公司 。
they're just like everyone else .	他們就像其他人一樣 。
they have the same access to the same talent , the same agencies , the same consultants , the same media .	他們有同樣的媒體 , 同樣的媒體 。
then why is it that they seem to have something different ?	那麼為什麼他們似乎有不同的東西 ?
why is it that martin luther king led the civil rights movement ?	為什麼是馬丁路德•金恩•金德王帶領民權運動 ?
he wasn't the only man who suffered in a precivil rights america , and he certainly wasn't the only great orator of the day .	他不是唯一的美國人 , 他肯定不是唯一的美國人 , 他也肯定不是唯一的男人 。
and why is it that the wright brothers were able to figure out controlled , powered man flight when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified , better funded . . .	為何如此 , 權力控制權力的飛行器能控制控制權力、控制權力、控制權力的人 , 更好的 。
and they didn't achieve powered man flight , and the wright brothers beat them to it .	他們沒有成員飛機 , 他們也沒有成員飛機 。
there's something else at play here .	這裡還有其他的東西 。
about three and a half years ago i made a discovery .	大約三年半前我發現了
and this discovery profoundly changed my view on how i thought the world worked , and it even profoundly changed the way in which i operate in it .	這個發現深刻改變了我在思考世界的運作方式 , 甚至深深地改變了我的觀點 。
as it turns out , there's a pattern .	結果發現 , 有一種模式 。
as it turns out , all the great and inspiring leaders and organizations in the world whether it's apple or martin luther king or the wright brothers they all think , act and communicate the exact same way .	結果發現 , 所有偉大、激勵的領導者和組織 , 不管是蘋果或馬丁•路德金 , 或馬丁•路德金 , 或馬丁•路德金 。
and it's the complete opposite to everyone else .	這是完全相反的 。
all i did was codify it , and it's probably the world's simplest idea .	我所做的是 , 它可能是世界上最簡單的想法 。
i call it the golden circle .	我稱它為黃金圈 。
why ? how ? what ?	為什麼 ? 如何 ?
this little idea explains why some organizations and some leaders are able to inspire where others aren't .	這個小點子解釋了為什麼一些組織和一些領導人 , 有些領導人也能啟發其他人 。
let me define the terms really quickly .	讓我定義這個詞非常快
every single person , every single organization on the planet knows what they do , 100 percent .	每個國家的每個組織 , 都知道他們有100% 。
some know how they do it , whether you call it your differentiated value proposition or your proprietary process or your usp .	有些人知道他們如何做到它 , 不管你稱它為 「 你 」 或你的 「 你 」 或你的 「 你 」 或你的 「 交易 」 。
but very , very few people or organizations know why they do what they do .	但很少人或組織知道為什麼他們會這麼做 。
and by " why " i don't mean " to make a profit . "	為 「 為何 」 , 我不代表 「 創造利潤 」 。
that's a result . it's always a result .	這是結果 。 結果是結果 。
by " why , " i mean: what's your purpose ?	由於 「 為什麼 」 我的意思是:你的目的是 ?
what's your cause ? what's your belief ?	你的信念是什麼 ? 你的信念是什麼 ?
why does your organization exist ?	為什麼你的組織存在 ?
why do you get out of bed in the morning ?	為什麼你早上早上醒來 ?
and why should anyone care ?	為什麼有人在乎 ?
well , as a result , the way we think , the way we act , the way we communicate is from the outside in .	結果 , 我們認為 , 我們的方式是從外面走進來的 。
it's obvious . we go from the clearest thing to the fuzziest thing .	這很明顯 , 我們從最明顯的事物開始 。
but the inspired leaders and the inspired organizations regardless of their size , regardless of their industry all think , act and communicate from the inside out .	但激勵領導者和鼓舞團體 , 不管他們的產業 , 不管他們的產業 , 不管他們的產業 , 不管他們的產業 , 都不管他們的產業 , 不管他們的產業 , 不管他們的產業 。
let me give you an example .	讓我舉個例子 。
i use apple because they're easy to understand and everybody gets it .	我用蘋果 , 因為他們很容易了解 , 大家會這樣 。
if apple were like everyone else , a marketing message from them might sound like this: " we make great computers .	如果蘋果跟其他人一樣 , 市場訊息會像這樣的: 「 我們做出很棒的電腦 。
they're beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	他們很漂亮設計 , 簡單地使用朋友 。
want to buy one ? " " meh . "	想買一個嗎 ? 」 「 嗯 。 」
and that's how most of us communicate .	這就是我們大多數人溝通的方式 。
that's how most marketing is done , that's how most sales is done and that's how most of us communicate interpersonally .	這是大多數的銷售 , 大部分的人都在做 , 大部分的人都是這樣做 。
we say what we do , we say how we're different or how we're better and we expect some sort of a behavior , a purchase , a vote , something like that .	我們會說我們是怎樣的 , 我們會說我們是怎樣的 , 我們會說我們是怎樣的 , 我們會說我們是怎樣的 , 我們會這樣做 , 我們會說我們是怎樣的 , 我們會這樣做 。
here's our new law firm: we have the best lawyers with the biggest clients , we always perform for our clients who do business with us .	這是我們的新法律:我們有最好的律師 , 是我們最好的律師 , 我們總是對我們的客戶做事 。
here's our new car: it gets great gas mileage , it has leather seats , buy our car .	這是我們的車輛:它有天空氣體 , 我們的車子 , 來買車 。
here's how apple actually communicates .	這是蘋果的溝通方式 。
" everything we do , we believe in challenging the status quo .	「 我們所做的一切 , 我們都相信在挑戰地圖上 。
we believe in thinking differently .	我們相信在思考不同的情況下 。
the way we challenge the status quo is by making our products beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	我們挑戰的是把我們的產品設計出來 , 簡單地使用者友善 。
we just happen to make great computers .	我們只是要做好的電腦 。
want to buy one ? "	想要買一個嗎 ? 」
totally different right ? you're ready to buy a computer from me .	完全不對嗎 ? 你準備好要買電腦 。
all i did was reverse the order of the information .	我所做的是反覆這些資訊 。
what it proves to us is that people don't buy what you do ; people buy why you do it .	告訴我們 , 人們不買你做什麼 ; 人們不買你做什麼 ; 人們不買你做的事 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 , 他們買你做的事 。
this explains why every single person in this room is perfectly comfortable buying a computer from apple .	這解釋為什麼每個人在這個房間裡都很不舒服 。
but we're also perfectly comfortable buying an mp3 player from apple , or a phone from apple , or a dvr from apple .	但我們也很適用蘋果的蘋果 , 或蘋果的蘋果 , 或蘋果的蘋果 。
but , as i said before , apple's just a computer company .	但 , 如我所說的 , 蘋果只是電腦公司 。
there's nothing that distinguishes them structurally from any of their competitors .	沒有什麼都沒有辦法讓他們從任何事業的競爭 。
their competitors are all equally qualified to make all of these products .	他們的競爭者是所有這些產品的競爭 。
in fact , they tried .	事實上 , 他們嘗試了 。
a few years ago , gateway came out with flat screen tvs .	幾年前 , 幾年前 , 甘迺迪的電視劇烈 。
they're eminently qualified to make flat screen tvs .	他們很強大 , 讓平方的電視節目 。
they've been making flat screen monitors for years .	他們已經製造了數年的螢幕
dell came out with mp3 players and pdas , and they make great quality products , and they can make perfectly welldesigned products and nobody bought one .	丹麥玩家和pds , 他們製造出很棒的品質產品 , 他們製造出很棒的產品 , 他們做出很棒的產品 , 他們做出完美的產品 , 沒有人買 。
in fact , talking about it now , we can't even imagine buying an mp3 player from dell .	事實上 , 談到現在我們甚至無法想像買三個玩家
why would you buy an mp3 player from a computer company ?	為什麼你會買一台電腦公司的公司 ?
but we do it every day .	但我們每天都這麼做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 , 他們買你做的事 。
the goal is not to do business with everybody who needs what you have .	目標是不是要做任何事業的人 。
the goal is to do business with people who believe what you believe .	目標是要去做那些相信你相信的人 。
here's the best part: none of what i'm telling you is my opinion .	最好的是我的意見 。
it's all grounded in the tenets of biology .	它都是在生物學中所做的 。
not psychology , biology .	不是心理學、生物學 。
if you look at a crosssection of the human brain , looking from the top down , what you see is the human brain is actually broken into three major components that correlate perfectly with the golden circle .	如果你看看人類腦袋 , 你看到的是 , 人類腦袋是從底部分裂出來的 , 你看到的是 , 人類腦袋裡的三種主要元素 , 和黃金圈一樣 。
our newest brain , our homo sapien brain , our neocortex , corresponds with the " what " level .	我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的腦部 。
the neocortex is responsible for all of our rational and analytical thought and language .	新皮層對我們的理性和分析想法和語言 。
the middle two sections make up our limbic brains , and our limbic brains are responsible for all of our feelings , like trust and loyalty .	中間有兩個功能 , 我們的大腦負責任意和忠誠 。
it's also responsible for all human behavior , all decisionmaking , and it has no capacity for language .	它也對人類行為、決策 , 也沒有能力 。
in other words , when we communicate from the outside in , yes , people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features and benefits and facts and figures .	換句話說 , 當我們從外面上傳遞到外面時 , 人們可以了解大量的複雜資訊 , 像是特定、信息、信息、信息 。
it just doesn't drive behavior .	它只是不動行為 。
when we can communicate from the inside out , we're talking directly to the part of the brain that controls behavior , and then we allow people to rationalize it with the tangible things we say and do .	當我們能控制行為時 , 我們會說 , 讓人們能控制行為 , 然後我們能控制行為 , 讓大家能控制行為 。
this is where gut decisions come from .	這就是猜測的決定 。
you know , sometimes you can give somebody all the facts and figures , and they say , " i know what all the facts and details say , but it just doesn't feel right . "	你知道 , 有時候你可以給別人所有事實和細節 , 說: 「 我知道 , 他們會說: 「 我知道這些事實和細節 , 只是沒有感覺 。 」
why would we use that verb , it doesn't " feel " right ?	為什麼我們會用這種詞彙 , 不是 「 感覺 」 。
because the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking doesn't control language .	因為大腦控制語言的部分是控制語言 。
and the best we can muster up is , " i don't know . it just doesn't feel right . "	最好的就是: 「 我不知道 , 沒錯 。 」
or sometimes you say you're leading with your heart , or you're leading with your soul .	有時候你會說你是你的心臟 , 或者你是你的心靈魂 。
well , i hate to break it to you , those aren't other body parts controlling your behavior .	嗯 , 我討厭破壞你的行為 , 不是其他身體控制你的行為 。
it's all happening here in your limbic brain , the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking and not language .	大腦裡的所有事情都發生在你的腦袋裡 , 大腦控制決策和非語言 。
but if you don't know why you do what you do , and people respond to why you do what you do , then how will you ever get people to vote for you , or buy something from you , or , more importantly , be loyal and want to be a part of what it is that you do .	但如果你不知道為什麼你這麼做 , 會如何讓人們回應你做的事 , 而人們回應為你做的事 , 而人們回應為你做什麼 , 或更重要的是 , 更重要的是 , 或更重要的是 , 要為你做些什麼 。
again , the goal is not just to sell to people who need what you have ; the goal is to sell to people who believe what you believe .	再次 , 目標並不是只為了賣給那些你相信的人 。
the goal is not just to hire people who need a job ; it's to hire people who believe what you believe .	目標並不是要僱用那些需要工作的人 , 而是僱用你相信的人 。
i always say that , you know , if you hire people just because they can do a job , they'll work for your money , but if you hire people who believe what you believe , they'll work for you with blood and sweat and tears .	我總是說 , 如果你僱用人們 , 因為他們能做工作 , 如果你僱用你的錢 , 如果你僱用你的人 , 他們會工作 , 因為他們可以做工作 , 如果你僱用你的錢 , 你就知道 , 如果你僱用你的人 , 他們會用血液、汗和淚 。
and nowhere else is there a better example of this than with the wright brothers .	另外還有更好的例子 , 比用更好的例子 。
most people don't know about samuel pierpont langley .	大部分的人都不知道samuelpontlangley 。
and back in the early 20th century , the pursuit of powered man flight was like the dot com of the day .	在20世紀初期 , 人們飛行的趨勢就像是天空 。
everybody was trying it .	每個人都嘗試它 。
and samuel pierpont langley had , what we assume , to be the recipe for success .	samuelpierpontlangley , 我們假設是成功的 。
i mean , even now , you ask people , " why did your product or why did your company fail ? "	我是說 , 如果你問人們: 「 為什麼你的公司失敗 ? 」
and people always give you the same permutation of the same three things: undercapitalized , the wrong people , bad market conditions .	人們總是給你同樣的相同的情況 , 第三件事情:受害、不好的市場條件 。
it's always the same three things , so let's explore that .	總是相同的三件事 , 讓我們來探索 。
samuel pierpont langley was given 50 , 000 dollars by the war department to figure out this flying machine .	samuelpontlangley有五萬美金 , 讓五萬美金給了五萬美金 。
money was no problem .	錢不是問題 。
he held a seat at harvard and worked at the smithsonian and was extremely wellconnected ; he knew all the big minds of the day .	他在smithsmithsmithsoniansmithsmithsonian , 他知道所有偉大的心智 。
he hired the best minds money could find and the market conditions were fantastic .	他僱用了最好的錢 , 市場條件很棒 。
the new york times followed him around everywhere , and everyone was rooting for langley .	《紐約時報》 , 每個人都在他周圍繞著他 , 每個人都在追蹤他 。
then how come we've never heard of samuel pierpont langley ?	那麼 , 我們從來沒有聽過samuelpierpontlangley ?
a few hundred miles away in dayton ohio , orville and wilbur wright , they had none of what we consider to be the recipe for success .	幾百英哩遠 , 在華盛頓天頓 , 沒有人我們認為是成功的成功 。
they had no money ; they paid for their dream with the proceeds from their bicycle shop ; not a single person on the wright brothers' team had a college education , not even orville or wilbur ; and the new york times followed them around nowhere .	他們沒有錢 ; 他們沒有錢 ; 他們沒有錢 ; 他們沒有錢 ; 他們沒有錢 ; 他們沒有錢 , 他們沒有錢 ; 他們沒有錢 , 他們還沒有錢 , 他們還沒有錢 , 還沒有錢 , 沒有錢 , 給他們的夢想 , 給他們的夢想 。
the difference was , orville and wilbur were driven by a cause , by a purpose , by a belief .	差異是 , 信念 , 信念 , 由一個目的 , 來源自自信 。
they believed that if they could figure out this flying machine , it'll change the course of the world .	他們相信如果他們能找出這台機器 , 它會改變世界的範圍 。
samuel pierpont langley was different .	samuelpontlangley是不同的 。
he wanted to be rich , and he wanted to be famous .	他想要是富有的 , 他想要是富有的 。
he was in pursuit of the result .	他在追求結果 。
he was in pursuit of the riches .	他在追求財富 。
and lo and behold , look what happened .	沒錯 , 看看發生了什麼事 。
the people who believed in the wright brothers' dream worked with them with blood and sweat and tears .	相信 , 愛德華兄弟的夢想與他們有血液、汗和淚 。
the others just worked for the paycheck .	其他人只為了付錢 。
and they tell stories of how every time the wright brothers went out , they would have to take five sets of parts , because that's how many times they would crash before they came in for supper .	他們會說故事 , 要花5個組件 , 因為那是多次 , 他們願意花5個組件 , 因為那是 , 他們願意花5個組件 。
and , eventually , on december 17th , 1903 , the wright brothers took flight , and no one was there to even experience it .	最後 , 在1903年12月17日 , 直到1903年12月17日 , 沒有人能體驗它 。
we found out about it a few days later .	幾天後我們發現了 。
and further proof that langley was motivated by the wrong thing: the day the wright brothers took flight , he quit .	更進一步的證明 , 拉ngley被誤解了 , 他放棄了 。
he could have said , " that's an amazing discovery , guys , and i will improve upon your technology , " but he didn't .	他可以說: 「 這是一個令人驚人的發現 , 我會改善你的科技 。 」 但他沒有 。
he wasn't first , he didn't get rich , he didn't get famous so he quit .	他不是第一 , 他沒有錢 , 他沒有錢 , 他沒有錢 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 , 他們買你做的事 。
and if you talk about what you believe , you will attract those who believe what you believe .	如果你談到你相信什麼 , 你就會吸引那些相信你相信的人 。
but why is it important to attract those who believe what you believe ?	但為什麼要吸引那些相信你相信的人 ?
something called the law of diffusion of innovation , and if you don't know the law , you definitely know the terminology .	關於創新的法律 , 如果你不知道法律 , 如果你不知道法律 , 你肯定知道這個詞 。
the first two and a half percent of our population are our innovators .	第一2.5%的人是我們創新者 。
the next 13 and a half percent of our population are our early adopters .	接下來的13.5%的人口是我們早期的員工 。
the next 34 percent are your early majority , your late majority and your laggards .	接下來的34%是你的早期 , 你的主要和你的階段 。
the only reason these people buy touch tone phones is because you can't buy rotary phones anymore .	唯一的原因是 , 因為你無法買電子手機 。
we all sit at various places at various times on this scale , but what the law of diffusion of innovation tells us is that if you want massmarket success or massmarket acceptance of an idea , you cannot have it until you achieve this tipping point between 15 and 18 percent market penetration , and then the system tips .	我們都在各個地方都在這個數字上 , 因為如果你想要大量的預測 , 你就無法做到這點 , 因為如果你想要大量的預測 , 你就可以做到這點 , 直到達成目標的目標 , 到達成千分之三十八%的市場 , 直到達成目標 , 才能達到目標 。
and i love asking businesses , " what's your conversion on new business ? "	我很喜歡問企業: 「 你在新商業上有什麼樣子 ? 」
and they love to tell you , " oh , it's about 10 percent , " proudly .	他們很喜歡告訴你們: 「 喔 , 大約10% 。 」
well , you can trip over 10 percent of the customers .	你可以試試超過10%的客戶 。
we all have about 10 percent who just " get it . "	我們都有10%的人只能得到它 。
that's how we describe them , right ?	這就是我們描述它們 , 對吧 ?
that's like that gut feeling , " oh , they just get it . "	像是那種感覺: 「 喔 , 他們只是得到它 。 」
the problem is: how do you find the ones that get it before you're doing business with them versus the ones who don't get it ?	問題是:你在做事業時 , 要怎麼找到你在做事業的人 , 才會這樣做 ?
so it's this here , this little gap that you have to close , as jeffrey moore calls it , " crossing the chasm " because , you see , the early majority will not try something until someone else has tried it first .	所以它是這樣 , 因為 , 你看到的 , 早期的早期 , 早期的小小差不多 , 因為 , 你看到的 , 早期 , 早期就不會嘗試它 。
and these guys , the innovators and the early adopters , they're comfortable making those gut decisions .	這些人 , 創新者和早期的員工 , 他們很舒服 , 來做那些猜測 。
they're more comfortable making those intuitive decisions that are driven by what they believe about the world and not just what product is available .	他們更努力做出那些直覺決策 , 那些直覺決策 , 就是他們所相信的世界 , 而不是只是產品 。
these are the people who stood in line for six hours to buy an iphone when they first came out , when you could have just walked into the store the next week and bought one off the shelf .	這是他們第一次走進一家店的店裡 , 買一台手機 , 當他們第一次走進去買一台車時 , 每週都買了一台車 , 再來買iphone 。
these are the people who spent 40 , 000 dollars on flat screen tvs when they first came out , even though the technology was substandard .	這些是花了四萬美金的電視 , 即使科技是最初期的 。
and , by the way , they didn't do it because the technology was so great ; they did it for themselves .	順便一提 , 他們沒有這麼做 , 因為科技是很棒的 , 他們也這麼做了 。
it's because they wanted to be first .	因為他們想要成為第一 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it and what you do simply proves what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 , 他們買你做什麼 , 他們買你做什麼 , 他們買你做什麼 , 他們買你做什麼 。
in fact , people will do the things that prove what they believe .	事實上 , 人們會做些事情證明他們相信什麼 。
the reason that person bought the iphone in the first six hours , stood in line for six hours , was because of what they believed about the world , and how they wanted everybody to see them: they were first .	人們在六個小時前六個小時內的原因是第一次 , 因為他們相信世界各地的原因 , 因為他們相信世界的原因 , 因為他們相信世界的原因 , 他們是第一次 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 , 他們買你做的事 。
so let me give you a famous example , a famous failure and a famous success of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我給你一個有名的例子 , 一個有名的 「 創新 」 的例子 。
first , the famous failure .	第一 , 失敗 。
it's a commercial example .	這是一個商業例子 。
as we said before , a second ago , the recipe for success is money and the right people and the right market conditions , right ? you should have success then .	如同我們剛剛提到的 , 是的 , 你應該成功成功 。
from the time tivo came out about eight or nine years ago to this current day , they are the single highestquality product on the market , hands down , there is no dispute .	從19年前到今日 , 他們是市場上最高品質產品 , 沒有失敗 。
they were extremely wellfunded .	他們非常受限 。
market conditions were fantastic .	市場條件很棒 。
i mean , we use tivo as verb .	我的意思是 , 我們使用tivo 。
i tivo stuff on my piece of junk time warner dvr all the time .	我在法庭上錄製了一段時間 。
but tivo's a commercial failure .	但tivo是個商業失敗 。
they've never made money .	他們從來沒有賺錢 。
and when they went ipo , their stock was at about 30 or 40 dollars and then plummeted , and it's never traded above 10 .	當他們回來時 , 他們的股票是30到40美元 , 大約30到30 , 40美元 , 並且從來沒有交換 。
in fact , i don't think it's even traded above six , except for a couple of little spikes .	事實上 , 我不認為它還在六方面 , 除了幾種小木頭 。
because you see , when tivo launched their product they told us all what they had .	因為你看到 , 當tivo發出他們的產品時 , 他們會告訴我們 。
they said , " we have a product that pauses live tv , skips commercials , rewinds live tv and memorizes your viewing habits without you even asking . "	他們說: 「 我們有一項產品 , 平均生活電視 , 電視和記憶 , 不管你甚至問過 。 」
and the cynical majority said , " we don't believe you .	常常說: 「 我們不相信你 。
we don't need it . we don't like it .	我們不需要它 。 我們不喜歡它 。
you're scaring us . "	你害怕我們 。 」
what if they had said , " if you're the kind of person who likes to have total control over every aspect of your life , boy , do we have a product for you .	如果他們說: 「 如果他們說: 「 如果他們說: 「 如果他們說: 「 如果他們說: 「 如果你是那種人 , 只要他們說: 「 如果你是那種人 , 只要他們說: 「 如果你是那種人 , 只要他們說: 「 如果你是這個人 , 你的人生中
it pauses live tv , skips commercials , memorizes your viewing habits , etc . , etc . "	它會停留在電視上 , 電視 , 電視 , 電視 , 行星 , 等等 。 」
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it , and what you do simply serves as the proof of what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 , 他們買你做什麼 ; 他們買你做的事 ; 他們買了你所做的 。
now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation .	現在讓我給你們一個成功的例子 , 例如 「 創新 」 。
in the summer of 1963 , 250 , 000 people showed up on the mall in washington to hear dr . king speak .	在1963年夏天 , 在1963年夏天 , 有250萬人在華盛頓 , 去聽他說話 。
they sent out no invitations , and there was no website to check the date .	他們沒有邀請 , 沒有網站去檢查這個網站 。
how do you do that ?	你怎麼做呢 ?
well , dr . king wasn't the only man in america who was a great orator .	嗯 , 凱西不是美國唯一的人 , 他是個很棒的人 。
he wasn't the only man in america who suffered in a precivil rights america .	他不是唯一美國的美國人 。
in fact , some of his ideas were bad .	事實上 , 他的想法是壞事 。
but he had a gift .	但他有禮物 。
he didn't go around telling people what needed to change in america .	他不需要改變美國的人民 。
he went around and told people what he believed .	他去了 , 告訴人們他相信的事 。
" i believe , i believe , i believe , " he told people .	他說: 「 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 。
and people who believed what he believed took his cause , and they made it their own , and they told people .	相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他相信他們自己
and some of those people created structures to get the word out to even more people .	有些那些人創造了結構 , 使人們更為人知名字 。
and lo and behold , 250 , 000 people showed up on the right day at the right time to hear him speak .	沒錯 , 有25000人在右邊 , 聽他說話 。
how many of them showed up for him ?	有多少人在他身上 ?
they showed up for themselves .	他們給自己看了 。
it's what they believed about america that got them to travel in a bus for eight hours to stand in the sun in washington in the middle of august .	他們相信美國 , 他們相信美國 , 讓他們在八個小時站在華盛頓區 。
it's what they believed , and it wasn't about black versus white: 25 percent of the audience was white .	他們相信 , 而不是黑人的白人:25%的觀眾是白人 。
dr . king believed that there are two types of laws in this world: those that are made by a higher authority and those that are made by man .	金恩相信有兩個類型的法律:那些是由人類所組成的法律 。
and not until all the laws that are made by man are consistent with the laws that are made by the higher authority will we live in a just world .	直到所有法律都是由人類的法律所構成的法律 , 使我們生活在一個世界 。
it just so happened that the civil rights movement was the perfect thing to help him bring his cause to life .	正是 , 民權運動是完美的 , 才能幫助他帶來他的人生 。
we followed , not for him , but for ourselves .	我們追求他 , 但不是為了自己 。
and , by the way , he gave the " i have a dream " speech , not the " i have a plan " speech .	順便說一下 , 他給了我一個 「 我有一個夢想 」 的詞 , 「 我有個夢想 」 , 「 我有個夢想 」 的演講 。
listen to politicians now , with their comprehensive 12point plans .	傾聽政治家現在 , 他們有了2個計畫 。
they're not inspiring anybody .	他們沒有啟發任何人 。
because there are leaders and there are those who lead .	因為有領導者 , 還有那些領導者 。
leaders hold a position of power or authority , but those who lead inspire us .	領導者有權力或權力或權力 , 但那些領導人會鼓舞我們 。
whether they're individuals or organizations , we follow those who lead , not because we have to , but because we want to .	不管他們是個人或組織 , 我們追蹤這些領導者 , 而不是因為我們想要 。
we follow those who lead , not for them , but for ourselves .	我們追蹤那些領導者 , 而不是給他們 , 而是給自己 。
and it's those who start with " why " that have the ability to inspire those around them or find others who inspire them .	開始有能力啟發他們 , 去啟發他們 , 或找到其他人啟發他們 。
how do you remember where you parked your car ? how do you know if you're moving in the right direction ? neuroscientist neil burgess studies the neural mechanisms that map the space around us , and how they link to memory and imagination .	你如何記得你在哪裡 ? 你如何記得你在哪裡 ? 你如何記得你在哪裡 ? 你知道嗎 ? 你如何記得你的車子 , 你記得你在哪裡 ? 神經學家的神經學家神經學家神經學家 , 神經學家的神經學家 , 神經學家的神經學家神經學家 。
brain , cognitive science , exploration , neuroscience , science	大腦、認知科學、探索、科學、探索、神經科學 。
neil burgess: how your brain tells you where you are	neilfges:你的大腦告訴你你在哪裡 。
when we park in a big parking lot , how do we remember where we parked our car ?	當我們公園停車時 , 我們會記得我們在公園裡停車嗎 ?
here's the problem facing homer .	這是問題的回家 。
and we're going to try to understand what's happening in his brain .	我們要試著了解他腦袋裡發生了什麼事 。
so we'll start with the hippocampus , shown in yellow , which is the organ of memory .	我們將從海馬迴的記憶體中開始 。
if you have damage there , like in alzheimer's , you can't remember things including where you parked your car .	如果你有傷害 , 例如阿茲海默症 , 你無法記得東西包括你在阿茲海默症 。
it's named after latin for " seahorse , " which it resembles .	它在拉丁文的 「 海底 」 的名字 , 它是 「 海底 」 。
and like the rest of the brain , it's made of neurons .	像其他大腦一樣 , 它是由神經元組成 。
so the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it .	人類大腦大約有100億個神經元
and the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other .	神經元互相溝通 , 互相溝通的神經元和彼此溝通 。
the hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells , which are very densely interconnected .	hpocampus是兩種細胞 , 它們非常密切連結 。
and scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food .	科學家已經開始了解海洋的記憶如何運作 , 藉由記錄從個人神經元的神經元 , 或探索一個環境 , 來尋找食物 。
so we're going to imagine we're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here .	我們會想像我們從一個神經元從一個神經元傳播到這裡 。
and when it fires a little spike of electricity , there's going to be a red dot and a click .	當它發電時 , 就會有一個紅點和點子 。
so what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment .	所以 , 我們看到的是 , 這種神經元知道 , 在它環境中 , 我們會看到一個特定的地方 。
and it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike .	它的訊號會傳遞給大腦的訊號 。
so we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal's location .	所以 , 我們可以展示出神經元的功能 , 是動物的位置 。
and if we record from lots of different neurons , we'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment , like in this square box shown here .	如果我們從許多不同的神經元來觀察 , 我們會看到不同的神經元 , 我們會看到不同的神經元 , 像這個平方盒子一樣 。
so together they form a map for the rest of the brain , telling the brain continually , " where am i now within my environment ? "	所以 , 他們會形成一個地圖 , 與大腦聯繫在一起 , 說: 「 我現在在哪裡 ? 」
place cells are also being recorded in humans .	細胞也記錄在人類身上 。
so epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring .	所以癲癇患者有時需要電力活動 。
and some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town .	有些病人玩了電玩遊戲 , 他們在小鎮上移動 。
and place cells in their hippocampi would fire , become active , start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town .	牠們在海裡的地點 , 就會開始發電流動 , 開始將電流動作 , 開始將電流動作 , 開始將電流動作 , 開始將電流傳送到鄉間 。
so how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment ?	所以 , 一個細胞的細胞知道哪裡是哪裡 , 或人在環境中 ?
well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important .	這兩個細胞告訴我們 , 環境的重要性 。
so the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat's in .	所以 , 頂尖的頂尖像是在牆壁上升高的牆壁 。
and when you expand the box , the firing location expands .	當你擴大盒子時 , 就會擴大 。
the one below likes to fire whenever there's a wall close by to the south .	每一塊牆上 , 就會出現在南邊 。
and if you put another wall inside the box , then the cell fires in both place wherever there's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box .	如果你把另一塊牆放在盒子裡 , 就會把牆壁放在盒子裡 , 把其他牆壁放在盒子裡 , 把其他牆壁放在盒子裡 。
so this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you extended buildings and so on is particularly important for the hippocampus .	所以 , 對於海馬迴路線的空間 , 對於海馬迴路線非常重要 。
and indeed , on the inputs to the hippocampus , cells are found which project into the hippocampus , which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it's exploring around .	實際上 , 細胞發現在海馬迴路上 , 細胞會發現這個計畫 , 來到海馬迴路線 , 到海馬迴路線 , 到海馬迴路線 , 到海馬迴路線 , 來到海馬迴路線 , 來到海馬迴路 , 來到海馬迴路 。
so the cell on the left , you can see , it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east , whether it's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table , which the animals are running around .	左邊的這個細胞 , 你可以看到 , 當動物在路線上移動時 , 就會看到 , 因為它是邊緣 , 或邊緣的細胞 , 在左邊的邊緣 , 或邊緣的邊緣 , 或邊緣的牆壁 , 或邊緣的牆壁 , 或邊緣的牆壁 , 或邊緣的邊緣 。
and the cell on the right there fires whenever there's a boundary to the south , whether it's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart .	右邊的細胞 , 只要有兩座桌子 , 就會被丟掉 , 或牆壁或牆壁 , 或兩條桌子之間的關係 。
so that's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it's exploring around .	這是我們認為一個方法 , 就是我們認為細胞決定動物在哪裡 。
we can also test where we think objects are , like this goal flag , in simple environments or indeed , where your car would be .	我們也能測試我們認為物體的樣子 , 像是這個目標 , 或在哪裡 , 你的車是哪裡 。
so we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember .	所以我們可以讓人們探索一個環境 , 看看它們的位置 。
and then , if we put them back in the environment , generally they're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was .	接著 , 如果我們把它們放在環境中 , 通常他們會覺得旗子或車子是很好的 。
but on some trials , we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell .	但在某些試驗中 , 我們可以改變形狀和大小的形狀 , 像是我們和環境的形狀一樣 。
in that case , we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment .	在這個例子中 , 我們可以看到他們認為旗子如何改變形狀和環境的形狀 。
and what you see , for example , if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment , and then if you ask people where it was , but you've made the environment bigger , where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out .	舉例來說 , 如果旗幟在一個小平方的環境中 , 你看到的是 , 如果旗幟在一個小平方的環境中 , 你看到的是 , 如果旗幟在一個小平方的環境中 , 你可以看到 , 如果旗幟是 , 他們認為旗幟是在一個小平方的環境中 , 而你在一個小平方的環境中 , 會讓環境更大 。
it's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location , and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern .	它就像你記得在哪裡的模式 , 然後你可以回到那個位置 , 然後你就可以回到那位置位 , 然後你就可以回到那邊的模式 , 然後你就可以回到那邊的模式 。
that guides you back to the location that you want to remember .	這引導你回到你所想的位置 。
but we also know where we are through movement .	但我們也知道我們正在經歷運動 。
so if we take some outbound path perhaps we park and we wander off we know because our own movements , which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back .	所以如果我們走路路徑 , 可能公園 , 我們會停下來 , 因為我們自己的運動 , 我們可以在這個路上走路 , 因為我們自己的運動 , 我們可以在這個路上走路 , 以往往往往往 。
and place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell .	細胞的細胞也形成了這種路徑 , 稱為 「 網絡細胞 」 。
now grid cells are found , again , on the inputs to the hippocampus , and they're a bit like place cells .	再次 , 神經細胞會發現 , 再次 , 它們就像細胞一樣 。
but now as the rat explores around , each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid .	但現在 , 每個個體的細胞 , 每個個體細胞都有不同的位置 , 每個個體的細胞 , 都在一個不同的位置 , 以一種非常不同的位置 。
and if you record from several grid cells shown here in different colors each one has a gridlike firing pattern across the environment , and each cell's gridlike firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells .	如果你用不同顏色的圖案 , 每個細胞都跟其他細胞的不同顏色相互相對 。
so the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one .	所以 , 紅色的紅色則是這個紅色的紅色 , 上面的紅色 , 上面的紅色 。
so together , it's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you'd find on a map , but using triangles .	所以 , 把它們的角度放在地圖上 , 用三角形的角度來看一下 , 但用三角形 。
and as it moves around , the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is , so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment .	當它移動時 , 電力活動可以從一個細胞移動到下一個細胞 , 讓它可以用它來控制它的運作方式 , 讓它可以用它來控制它的運作 。
do people have grid cells ?	人們有格細胞嗎 ?
well because all of the gridlike firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry , the same orientations of grid , shown in orange here , it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between .	因為所有電池都有相同的對稱性 , 神經細胞之間的相同位置 , 它意味著 , 我們之間的神經元素 , 與其它之間的相互作用 , 它意味著 , 我們之間的神經細胞之間的相同位置 , 使我們在六個方向上移動 。
so we can put people in an mri scanner and have them do a little video game like the one i showed you and look for this signal .	所以我們可以把人們放在mri掃描儀中 , 把他們放在mri掃描儀中 , 把他們放在mri掃描儀中 , 把他們放在mri掃描儀中 , 把他們放在mri掃描儀中 。
and indeed , you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex , which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats .	事實上 , 你可以看到它在人類的皮層中 , 你可以看到它在人類的皮層 , 大腦的一部分是大腦的一部分 。
so back to homer .	回到家鄉 。
he's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked .	他可能記得他在車輛的距離 , 和他公園的距離 。
and that would be represented by the firing of boundarydetecting cells .	這就代表了細胞的形狀細胞 。
he's also remembering the path he took out of the car park , which would be represented in the firing of grid cells .	他也記得他從車公園的路徑走出車公園的路徑 , 它會代表在公園的路線上 。
now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire .	現在這類細胞可以製造出細胞的細胞 。
and he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car .	牠可以回到地位的位置 , 把牠帶到地位的位置 , 讓牠在大腦中最好的位置 , 把牠停下來的位置 。
and that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car's actually there .	這引導他回到那個地點 , 像卡車一樣 。
maybe it's been towed .	或許它已經被淘汰了 。
but he knows where it was , so he knows to go and get it .	但他知道 , 他知道它是哪裡 , 所以他知道它在哪裡 。
so beyond spatial memory , if we look for this gridlike firing pattern throughout the whole brain , we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks , like remembering the last time you went to a wedding , for example .	除此之外 , 我們看到它在整個大腦中 , 我們看到它在整個大腦中 , 我們看到它在整個大腦中 , 我們看到它在整個大腦中 , 我們看到它在整個大腦中 , 我們看到它 , 在整個大腦中 , 我們看到它 , 在整個大腦中 , 我們看到它 , 在整個大腦中 , 我們看到它 , 在整個大腦中 , 我們看到它 , 在整個大腦中 , 我們看到它 。
so it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene , at least , of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them .	所以它可能是神經機制 , 使我們想要想像它們 。
so if this was happening , your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint .	所以 , 如果這發生了 , 你的記憶就可以開始 , 藉由細胞移動 , 來形成空間結構的空間結構 , 形成你周圍的空間結構 。
and grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space .	網格細胞可以把這個觀點放在空間中 。
another kind of cell , head direction cells , which i didn't mention yet , they fire like a compass according to which way you're facing .	另一種細胞 , 如同一個細胞 , 我沒有提到它 , 但它們看起來就像一個細胞 , 我還沒提到它 。
they could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery , so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding , for example .	他們可以定義視覺影像的視覺影像 , 所以你可以想像一下 , 當你在這個影像時 , 你就可以想像發生在哪裡 。
so this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains .	這只是一個新時代的神經元 , 我們開始了解心理學過程 , 像是你記得或想像 , 或甚至認為 , 人類的神經元在數十億個體內的神經元中 , 會形成我們的大腦 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家
imagine a global security driven by collaboration among agencies , government , the private sector and the public . that's not just the distant hope of opensource fans , it's the vision of james stavridis , the supreme commander of nato , who shares vivid moments from recent military history to explain why security of the future should be built with bridges rather than walls .	想像一個全球安全的機制 , 政府和公共衛生 , 不只不過是詹姆斯•史林斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•史蒂斯•斯特林斯的歷史 , 來解釋我們未來的未來應該要建立橋樑和公共 。
collaboration , global issues , opensource , peace , politics , social media , violence , war	合作、社群媒體、暴力、和平、政治、社群媒體、暴力等等 。
james stavridis: how nato's supreme commander thinks about global security	詹姆斯•辛蒂: 「 詹姆斯•史蒂斯 」 : 「 詹姆斯蒂姆斯 」 的主題是: 「 世界安全 」 的主題 。
i'm gonna talk a little bit about opensource security , because we've got to get better at security in this 21st century .	我要談的是開放原始碼 , 因為我們必須在21世紀中更安全 。
let me start by saying , let's look back to the 20th century , and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us .	讓我開始說 , 咱們來回20世紀 , 來看看我們的生活方式如何運作 。
this is verdun , a battlefield in france just north of the nato headquarters in belgium .	這是在法國北部 , 在法國的北部 , 在法國的北部 , 一個戰場 。
at verdun , in 1916 , over a 300day period , 700 , 000 people were killed , so about 2 , 000 a day .	在1916年 , 大約200000000000000000000000000000000000000000萬人被殺死
if you roll it forward 20thcentury security into the second world war , you see the battle of stalingrad , 300 days , 2 million people killed .	如果你將它轉移到20世紀的安全 , 二百萬人死了 。
we go into the cold war , and we continue to try and build walls .	我們進入冷戰 , 我們繼續嘗試建立牆壁 。
we go from the trench warfare of the first world war to the maginot line of the second world war , and then we go into the cold war , the iron curtain , the berlin wall .	我們走進一個寒戰戰爭的戰爭中 , 第二次世界大戰結束時 , 我們走進冷戰 , 然後進入冷戰 , 然後進入冷戰 , 然後進入冷戰 , 然後進入冷戰 。
my thesis for us today is , instead of building walls to create security , we need to build bridges .	今天我們要建立橋樑 , 我們需要建立橋樑 。
this is a famous bridge in europe .	這是歐洲的橋樑
it's the bridge over the drina river , the subject of a novel by ivo andrić , and it talks about how , in that very troubled part of europe and the balkans , over time there's been enormous building of walls .	它在巴爾蘭和巴勒斯坦河流行的一部分是歐洲和巴爾蘭的大樓 , 它會談到如何 , 它在大樓上有巨大的牆壁 。
more recently , in the last decade , we begin to see these communities start , hesitatingly , to come together .	近幾十年來 , 我們開始看到這些社區開始 , 開始 , 去看這些社區 , 開始 , 開始 , 來看看這些社區開始 。
i would argue , again , opensource security is about connecting the international , the interagency , the privatepublic , and lashing it together with strategic communication , largely in social networks .	我會建議 , 開放原始碼 , 公開關聯國際關係 , 與策略性溝通 , 與策略性溝通 , 在社交網路上 。
so let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that , because our global commons is under attack in a variety of ways , and none of the sources of threat to the global commons will be solved by building walls .	讓我來談一下為什麼我們需要這樣做 , 因為我們的全球公共公共公共公共公共公共公共公共公共公共公共公共公路 , 不必要做這個 。
now , i'm a sailor , obviously .	現在 , 我很明顯 。
this is a ship , a liner , clipping through the indian ocean .	這是一艘船 , 一艘船 , 一艘船 , 直到印度洋 。
what's wrong with this picture ?	這張照片是怎麼樣的 ?
it's got concertina wire along the sides of it .	它會被包含在那邊 。
that's to prevent pirates from attacking it .	這是預防範圍的預防
piracy is a very active threat today around the world . this is in the indian ocean .	海盜是全球的威脅 。 這在印度洋 。
piracy is also very active in the strait of malacca .	piracy也在馬拉克加上非常活躍 。
it's active in the gulf of guinea .	它在海岸的大海裡 。
we see it in the caribbean .	我們看到它在加勒比海 。
it's a $10billionayear discontinuity in the global transport system .	全球運輸系統中有10億美元 。
last year , at this time , there were 20 vessels , 500 mariners held hostage .	去年 , 在這個時候 , 500個火星 , 有了20個冰箱 。
this is an attack on the global commons .	這是全球常見的攻擊 。
we need to think about how to address it .	我們需要思考如何處理它 。
let's shift to a different kind of sea , the cyber sea .	咱們來轉換一種不同的海洋 , 網路海 。
here are photographs of two young men .	這是兩個年輕人的照片 。
at the moment , they're incarcerated .	此時 , 他們被監禁 。
they conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars .	他們提供了信用卡片 , 讓他們超過10億美元 。
this is part of cybercrime which is a $2trillionayear discontinuity in the global economy .	這是網路犯罪的一部分 , 它是全球經濟的二氧化碳 。
two trillion a year .	兩兆一年 。
that's just under the gdp of great britain .	這只是在英國最高的英國 。
so this cyber sea , which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness , is very much under threat as well .	所以這個網路海 , 我們所知道的 , 基本的基本原始 , 基本上是無限的 , 基本上是極端的 , 基本上是無限的 。
another thing i worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking , by the movement of narcotics , opium , here coming out of afghanistan through europe over to the united states .	另一件我擔心的 , 來自阿富汗美國的威脅 , 從阿富汗到美國的威脅 。
we worry about cocaine coming from the andean ridge north .	我們擔心古柯鹼來自北邊的古柯鹼
we worry about the movement of illegal weapons and trafficking . above all , perhaps , we worry about human trafficking , and the awful cost of it .	我們擔心人類貿易販賣 , 可能 , 我們擔心人類販賣 , 可能 , 我們擔心人類貿易 , 和販賣 。
trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons .	貿易運行很大 , 但在海裡 , 其他部分都是全球性的共同點 。
this is a photograph , and i wish i could tell you that this is a very hightech piece of us navy gear that we're using to stop the trafficking .	這是一張照片 , 我希望我可以告訴各位 , 這是一張非常高的技術 , 是我們要阻止垃圾 。
the bad news is , this is a semisubmersible run by drug cartels .	壞消息是 , 這是一個可行的銷售品牌 。
it was built in the jungles of south america .	它在南美洲的叢林裡建造 。
we caught it with that lowtech raft — — and it was carrying six tons of cocaine .	我們把它帶著六噸的石頭 。
crew of four . sophisticated communications sweep .	第四個複雜的溝通方式 。
this kind of trafficking , in narcotics , in humans , in weapons , god forbid , in weapons of mass destruction , is part of the threat to the global commons .	這種貿易、武器、武器、武器、人類武器、武器、武器、武器、武器大量毀滅 , 就是威脅到全球公共事業 。
and let's pull it together in afghanistan today .	現在 , 咱們在阿富汗 。
this is a field of poppies in afghanistan .	這是阿富汗的區域 。
eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppy , opium and heroin , comes out of afghanistan .	八到90%的人都在阿富汗 , 來自阿富汗 。
we also see there , of course , terrorism .	我們也看到了 , 當然恐怖主義 。
this is where al qaeda is staged from .	這是亞歷山大的廣告
we also see a very strong insurgency embedded there .	我們也看到非常強烈的緊急狀況 。
so this terrorism concern is also part of the global commons , and what we must address .	所以這恐怖主義是全球性的共同點 , 我們必須加入 。
so here we are , 21st century .	我們是21世紀 。
we know our 20thcentury tools are not going to work .	我們知道20世紀的工具無法運作 。
what should we do ?	我們該怎麼做 ?
i would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我會說 , 我們不會把安全從桶子裡拿出來 。
we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我們不會把安全從桶子裡拿出來 。
we will need the application of military force .	我們需要應用軍隊的力量 。
when we do it , we must do it well , and competently .	當我們這麼做時 , 我們必須做它 。
but my thesis is , opensource security is about international , interagency , privatepublic connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the internet .	但我的聯繫是 , 公開的關聯 , 公開關聯網際網路 , 開放原始碼 。
let me give you a couple of examples of how this works in a positive way .	讓我給你們幾個例子 , 說明它如何運作 。
this is afghanistan . these are afghan soldiers .	這是阿富汗士兵 。
they are all holding books .	他們都是書籍 。
you should say , " that's odd . i thought i read that this demographic , young men and women in their 20s and 30s , is largely illiterate in afghanistan . "	你應該說: 「 這很奇怪 , 我以為我讀到這位在阿富汗的年輕人和三十歲的年輕男人和女人 。 」
you would be correct .	你會正確 。
eightyfive percent cannot read when they enter the security forces of afghanistan .	85%無法閱讀當他們進入安全軍隊的安全力量 。
why ? because the taliban withheld education during the period of time in which these men and women would have learned to read .	爲什麽 ? 因為塔利班和婦女會學會閱讀 。
so the question is , so , why are they all standing there holding books ?	所以 , 問題是 , 為什麼他們都站在抱著書籍 ?
the answer is , we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by nato in partnership with private sector entities , in partnership with development agencies .	答案是 , 我們在教導他們閱讀 , 和 「 合作夥伴 」 的合作夥伴 , 和 「 合作夥伴 」 。
we've taught well over 200 , 000 afghan security forces to read and write at a basic level .	我們已經教了超過200萬個阿富汗安全力量 , 來閱讀和寫作 。
when you can read and write in afghanistan , you will typically put a pen in your pocket .	當你讀和寫在阿富汗時 , 你通常會把筆放在你的口袋裡 。
at the ceremonies , when these young men and women graduate , they take that pen with great pride , and put it in their pocket .	在這些年輕的男人和女人畢業後 , 他們把這筆錢放進口袋裡 。
this is bringing together international — there are 50 nations involved in this mission — interagency — these development agencies — and privatepublic , to take on this kind of security .	聯合國聯合國 , 50個國家聯合國聯合國 , 將國際聯合國聯合起來 , 聯合國際關係 , 基本上是50個國家 。
now , we are also teaching them combat skills , of course , but i would argue , opensource security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect .	現在 , 我們也教導這些技巧 , 當然 , 但我會說 , 開放式的安全感應方式 , 來建立更長的安全感 。
this is a us navy warship .	這是美國太空船 。
it's called the comfort .	它叫做 「 舒適 」 。
there's a sister ship called the mercy .	有一個姐妹的船叫做 「 夏西 」 。
they are hospital ships .	他們是醫院船 。
this one , the comfort , operates throughout the caribbean and the coast of south america conducting patient treatments .	這種事 , 加勒比海和海岸 , 在南美洲的加勒比海岸和海岸 , 合作 , 加勒比海和海岸 。
on a typical cruise , they'll do 400 , 000 patient treatments .	在典型的cruise , 他們會40萬病人治療 。
it is crewed not strictly by military but by a combination of humanitarian organizations: operation hope , project smile .	它並不是被軍隊的結合 , 而是透過軍隊 , 以軍隊為人道主義組織 , 以軍隊為人道主義組織 , 以軍隊為人道主義組織 。
other organizations send volunteers .	其他組織會寄志願者 。
interagency physicians come out .	內部醫師會走出來 。
they're all part of this .	他們都是這樣 。
to give you one example of the impact this can have , this little boy , eight years old , walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the comfort .	舉個例子來說 , 這個小男孩 , 8歲 , 和他的母親兩天來到眼睛診所 。
when he was fitted , over his extremely myopic eyes , he suddenly looked up and said , " mama , veo el mundo . "	當他被翻譯時 , 他突然發現了: 「 mamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamamama
" mom , i see the world . "	「 媽媽 , 我看到世界 。 」
multiply this by 400 , 000 patient treatments , this privatepublic collaboration with security forces , and you begin to see the power of creating security in a very different way .	通過400萬個病人治療 , 和安全軍隊合作 , 你開始看到力量的力量 , 來創造安全的力量 。
here you see baseball players .	你可以看到籃球玩家 。
can you pick out the two us army soldiers in this photograph ?	你能挑選出兩位軍隊的軍隊嗎 ?
they are the two young men on either side of these young boys . this is part of a series of baseball clinics , where we have explored collaboration between major league baseball , the department of state , who sets up the diplomatic piece of this , military baseball players , who are real soldiers with real skills but participate in this mission , and they put on clinics throughout latin america and the caribbean , in honduras , in nicaragua , in all of the central american and caribbean nations where baseball is so popular , and it creates security .	他們是兩位年輕男士 , 他們在美國和加利比亞的小男孩之間 , 他們在美國和加利比亞的小男孩之間的一部分 , 這些年輕男士 , 他們是一系列的軍隊 , 他們在美國和加利比亞的小男孩之間 , 非常受歡迎 , 但參與這個任務 , 他們是一系列的一系列 , 他們在美國和加勒比亞 , 北美洲和加勒比海岸 , 來到這裡 , 他們是一系列的一系列 , 他們在美國和加勒比海岸 , 來到美國和加利比亞 , 非常受歡迎 , 而他們在美國和加利比亞 , 來到美國和加利比亞 , 非常受歡迎 。
it shows role models to young men and women about fitness and about life that i would argue help create security for us .	它展示了男性和女性的基礎 , 來幫助我們創造安全 。
another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief .	另一方面是災難的一部分 。
this is a us air force helicopter participating after the tsunami in 2004 which killed 250 , 000 people .	這是美國空軍直升機在2004年發生了250萬人
in each of these major disasters — the tsunami in 2004 , 250 , 000 dead , the kashmiri earthquake in pakistan , 2005 , 85 , 000 dead , the haitian earthquake , about 300 , 000 dead , more recently the awful earthquaketsunami combination which struck japan and its nuclear industry — in all of these instances , we see partnerships between international actors , interagency , privatepublic working with security forces to respond to this kind of natural disaster .	在2005年5月2500000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000萬名死亡 , 那些天然災難之間 , 海地震盪的大災難 , 和安全力量之間的聯繫 。
so these are examples of this idea of opensource security .	這是開放原始碼的例子 。
we tie it together , increasingly , by doing things like this .	我們把它結合起來 , 這樣做 。
now , you're looking at this thinking , " ah , admiral , these must be sea lanes of communication , or these might be fiber optic cables . "	現在 , 你在想: 「 啊 , 嗯 , 這些可能是纖維的線路 , 這些可能是纖維的線路 。 」
no . this is a graphic of the world according to twitter .	不 , 這是世界的圖像 。
purple are tweets . green are geolocation .	紫色是綠色的 , 綠色是綠色的 。
white is the synthesis .	白人是合成組織 。
it's a perfect evocation of that great population survey , the six largest nations in the world in descending order: china , india , facebook , the united states , twitter and indonesia .	它是個完美的演化 , 美國 , 中國 , 印度 , 美國 , 中國 , 印度 , 中國 , 印度 , 中國 , 印度 , 中國 , 印度 , 中國 , 印度 , 美國、推特和印尼 。
why do we want to get in these nets ?	為什麼我們要在這些網子上 ?
why do we want to be involved ?	為什麼我們想要參與 ?
we talked earlier about the arab spring , and the power of all this .	我們談到阿拉伯之春 , 以及它的力量 。
i'll give you another example , and it's how you move this message .	我會給你另一個例子 , 就是你如何移動這個訊息 。
i gave a talk like this in london a while back about this point . i said , as i say to all of you , i'm on facebook . friend me .	我在倫敦的一場演講 , 如同我在倫敦的演講 , 我說 , 我在倫敦 , 我說 , 我在倫敦 , 我說 , 我在倫敦 , 我說 , 我在倫敦 , 朋友我 。
got a little laugh from the audience .	聽眾有一點笑 。
there was an article which was run by ap , on the wire .	這裡有一篇文章 , 在線上 。
got picked up in two places in the world: finland and indonesia .	在世界各地的兩個地方 , 芬蘭和印尼亞 。
the headline was: nato admiral needs friends .	頭條是:奈米德需要朋友 。
and the story was a catalyst , and the next morning i had hundreds of facebook friend requests from indonesians and finns , mostly saying , " admiral , we heard you need a friend , and oh , by the way , what is nato ? "	故事是天早上 , 我有幾百個來自印尼和金恩的朋友 , 大部分說: 「 愛迪士 , 我們聽到你需要朋友 。 」 「 愛迪士 , 我們聽到你需要朋友 。 」
yeah , we laugh , but this is how we move the message , and moving that message is how we connect international , interagency , privatepublic , and these social nets to help create security .	是的 , 我們笑了 , 但這就是我們如何傳遞訊息 , 是我們如何連結國際、國際、國際、私人、私人 , 而這些社群 , 來協助創造安全 。
now , let me hit a somber note .	現在 , 讓我打算一下 。
this is a photograph of a brave british soldier .	這是一張勇敢的照片 。
he's in the scots guards .	他在大樓裡 。
he's standing the watch in helmand , in southern afghanistan .	他站在南阿富汗 。
i put him here to remind us , i would not want anyone to leave the room thinking that we do not need capable , competent militaries who can create real military effect .	我把他提醒我們 , 我不需要有能力的軍隊 , 才能創造真正的軍事 。
that is the core of who we are and what we do , and we do it to protect freedom , freedom of speech , all the things we treasure in our societies .	這就是我們所做的一切 , 我們會保護自由、自由、自由、自由、自由、自由、自由、自由、自由 。
but , you know , life is not an onandoff switch .	但 , 你知道 , 生命並不是一個開關 。
you don't have to have a military that is either in hard combat or is in the barracks .	你不需要有軍隊 , 不必要有軍隊 , 不需要有軍隊 ,
i would argue life is a rheostat .	我會爭論生命是一場戰爭 。
you have to dial it in , and as i think about how we create security in this 21st century , there will be times when we will apply hard power in true war and crisis , but there will be many instances , as we've talked about today , where our militaries can be part of creating 21stcentury security , international , interagency , privatepublic , connected with competent communication .	你必須在這個21世紀的安全中 , 來談談我們今天所討論的 , 我們的軍隊是如何創造21世紀的安全、國際、國際、國際、國際、國際、國際、國際、國際、國際、國際、國際、國際、國際、國際、公共事業 。
i would close by saying that we heard earlier today about wikipedia . i use wikipedia all the time to look up facts , and as all of you appreciate , wikipedia is not created by 12 brilliant people locked in a room writing articles .	今天我用維基百科 , 維基百科 , 維基百科的文章 , 維基百科 , 維基百科都沒用維基百科 , 維基百科都不用維基百科 , 維基百科都不用維基百科 。
wikipedia , every day , is tens of thousands of people inputting information , and every day millions of people withdrawing that information .	維基百科 , 每一天 , 每一天都有數以千計的人數以千計的人數以千計的人數以千計的人 。
it's a perfect image for the fundamental point that no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	這是一個完美的完美的圖像 , 是我們人類的智慧 , 和我們一起思考在一起 。
no one person , no one alliance , no one nation , no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	沒有人 , 沒有人 , 沒有一個人 , 沒有人 , 沒有人 , 沒有人 , 沒有人 , 沒有人 , 沒有人 , 沒有人 , 沒有人 , 沒有人
the vision statement of wikipedia is very simple: a world in which every human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge .	維基百科的維基百科是非常簡單的:一個世界 , 每個人都可以自由地分享它 。
my thesis for you is that by combining international , interagency , privatepublic , strategic communication , together , in this 21st century , we can create the sum of all security .	我的意思是 , 在這個21世紀 , 我們可以創造全安全的國家 。
thank you very much . thank you . thank you .	謝謝 。 謝謝 。
