BLEU = 24.33 55.6/31.2/18.1/11.2 (BP = 1.000 ratio = 1.019 hyp_len = 113343 ref_len = 111282)
when you say she's a programmer , she did do some , but the real thing is to have said the future is going to be much , much more than this .	當你說她是程式設計師 , 她確實這麼做了 , 但真正要說的是 , 未來會更加深遠 。
now , a hundred years later , this guy comes along , alan turing , and in 1936 , and invents the computer all over again .	一百年後 , 這傢伙來了 , 艾倫•圖靈 , 1936年 , 發明了電腦 。
now , of course , babbage's machine was entirely mechanical .	當然 , babbage的機器完全是機械化的
turing's machine was entirely theoretical .	圖靈的機器完全是理論上的 。
both of these guys were coming from a mathematical perspective , but turing told us something very important .	這兩個人都是從數學的觀點來的 , 但圖靈告訴我們一件非常重要的事 。
he laid down the mathematical foundations for computer science , and said , " it doesn't matter how you make a computer . "	他為電腦科學奠定了數學基礎 , 說: 「 不論你怎麼做電腦 , 都無所謂 。 」
it doesn't matter if your computer's mechanical , like babbage's was , or electronic , like computers are today , or perhaps in the future , cells , or , again , mechanical again , once we get into nanotechnology .	不管你電腦的機械裝置是不是像巴比奇的機械裝置 , 或是電子裝置 , 像今天的電腦 , 或是未來的電腦 , 或者 , 細胞 , 或者 , 再一次 , 再一次 , 重申 , 只要我們進入了奈米科技 。
we could go back to babbage's machine and just make it tiny . all those things are computers .	我們可以回到巴貝奇的機器 , 把它做得很小 。 所有這些都是電腦 。
there is in a sense a computing essence .	在某種意義上 , 電腦的本質是存在的 。
this is called the church–turing thesis .	這叫做 「 教堂反對論文 」 。
and so suddenly , you get this link where you say this thing babbage had built really was a computer .	突然間 , 你有了這個連結 , 你說巴貝奇的這個東西真的是一部電腦 。
in fact , it was capable of doing everything we do today with computers , only really slowly .	事實上 , 它可以做到我們今天用電腦所做的每件事 , 只是真的很慢 。
to give you an idea of how slowly , it had about 1k of memory .	為了讓大家知道 , 記憶有多慢 。
it used punch cards , which were being fed in , and it ran about 10 , 000 times slower the first zx81 .	它使用打孔卡 , 被餵進來 , 打孔卡的速度大約是第一號zx81的一萬倍 。
it did have a ram pack .	它的確有一群ram包 。
you could add on a lot of extra memory if you wanted to .	如果你想要的話 , 你可以加上很多額外的記憶體 。
so , where does that bring us today ?	那麼 , 今天這會帶給我們什麼呢 ?
so there are plans .	所以 , 有計劃 。
over in swindon , the science museum archives , there are hundreds of plans and thousands of pages of notes written by charles babbage about this analytical engine .	在瑞典 , 科學博物館的檔案館 , 有數百個計劃和數千頁的筆記 , 由查爾斯•巴貝奇所寫的關於這個分析引擎的筆記 。
one of those is a set of plans that we call plan 28 , and that is also the name of a charity that i started with doron swade , who was the curator of computing at the science museum , and also the person who drove the project to build a difference engine , and our plan is to build it .	其中一項就是我們稱之為計劃28的計畫 , 這也是我和doronswade一起開始的一個慈善機構的名字 , 他是科學博物館的負責人 , 也是開這個計劃要建造出一個差異引擎的人 , 我們的計劃是要建造它的 。
here in south kensington , we will build the analytical engine .	在肯辛頓南部 , 我們將建造一個分析引擎 。
the project has a number of parts to it .	這個專案有幾個部分 。
one was the scanning of babbage's archive .	第一 , 是巴貝奇的檔案庫的掃描 。
that's been done . the second is now the study of all of those plans to determine what to build .	已經完成了 。 第二項研究是關於所有這些計畫的研究 , 來決定要建造什麼 。
the third part is a computer simulation of that machine , and the last part is to physically build it at the science museum .	第三部分是模擬那台機器的電腦 , 最後一部份是實體的在科學博物館裡把它做出來 。
when it's built , you'll finally be able to understand how a computer works , because rather than having a tiny chip in front of you , you've got to look at this humongous thing and say , " ah , i see the memory operating , i see the cpu operating , i hear it operating . i probably smell it operating . "	當它完成時 , 你終於能夠理解電腦是如何運作的 , 因為與其在你面前有一小片晶片 , 你必須看著這個巨大的東西 , 說: 「 啊 , 我看到記憶體在運作 , 我看到cpu在運作 , 我聽到它在運作 。 我可能聞到它在運作 。 」
but in between that we're going to do a simulation .	但在兩者之間 , 我們要做一個模擬 。
babbage himself wrote , he said , as soon as the analytical engine exists , it will surely guide the future course of science .	巴貝奇自己寫信 , 他說 , 一旦分析引擎存在 , 它肯定會引導未來的科學發展 。
of course , he never built it , because he was always fiddling with new plans , but when it did get built , of course , in the 1940s , everything changed .	當然 , 他從來沒有蓋過它 , 因為他總是以新的計劃迷惑著 , 但在1940年代 , 一切都改變了 。
now , i'll just give you a little taste of what it looks like in motion with a video which shows just one part of the cpu mechanism working .	現在 , 我來給各位看看它在動畫時的樣子 , 它只是其中一個cpu的機械裝置運作的部分 。
so this is just three sets of cogs , and it's going to add . this is the adding mechanism in action , so you imagine this gigantic machine .	這只不過是三組齒輪 , 而且還會加上 。 這是加上機械的動作 , 所以 , 各位可以想像一下這個巨大的機器 。
so , give me five years .	所以 , 給我五年 。
before the 2030s happen , we'll have it .	在2030年之前 , 我們將會成功 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
in this imagefilled talk , yann arthusbertrand displays his three most recent projects on humanity and our habitat stunning aerial photographs in his series " the earth from above , " personal interviews from around the globe featured in his web project " 6 billion others , " and his soontobereleased movie , " home , " which documents human impact on the environment through breathtaking video .	在這個充滿影像的演說中 , 雅南•亞伯特在他的網路上展示了他三項最新的關於人性的企劃 , 我們的棲息地震震震撼了他的系列《從上方來的地球》 , 個人的訪談 , 來自全球的個人訪談 , 在他的網路《六十億人》當中 , 及他在網路上所拍攝的電影《家園》 , 記錄了人們對於環境的影響 。
art , climate change , environment , film , future , humanity , media , photography	藝術、氣候變化、環境、電影、未來、人性、媒體、照片 。
yann arthusbertrand captures fragile earth in wideangle	雅南•亞伯特用寬角度捕捉脆弱的地球 。
i have a big impact on the planet to travel here by plane .	我對這個星球有很大的影響 , 可以透過飛機來到這裡 。
i emitted , in the atmosphere , nine tons of co2 ; that is the weight of two elephants .	我在大氣中排放了9噸的二氧化碳 ; 這兩隻大象的重量 。
i came here to speak about ecology , and i emitted as much co2 as a frenchman in one year .	我來這裡談談生態學 , 每年我排放的二氧化碳和法國人一樣多 。
so what do i have to do ?	所以 , 我該怎麼辦 ?
i have to kill a frenchman when i come back at home ?	當我回到家時 , 我得要殺一個法國人 ?
i have to do my carbon offset in another way , like i do every time .	我必須用另一種方式來抵消我的碳 , 就像我每次都這樣 。
in fact my work is to show our impact on our planet .	事實上 , 我的工作是向各位展示我們對地球的影響 。
i'm going to show you some examples of the last pictures i've done in the last year .	我要給你們看一些例子 , 關於我去年拍攝的最後一幅照片 。
alberta sand oil , a lot of pollution .	亞伯達省的油砂 , 大量的污染 。
you know the problem ; we don't want to believe what we know .	你知道問題 , 我們不想相信我們知道的
in alberta people work nonstop , 24 hours by seven to extract as much oil as they can .	在亞伯達省 , 人們的工作時間是非石油的24小時 , 七個小時是七個小時 , 盡可能地抽取石油 。
we know about the end of oil .	我們知道石油的終點
oil sand is not a longterm solution .	石油沙不是長期解決方案 。
but we use three times more oil than we find every year .	但我們每年使用的石油比我們每年發現的還多三倍 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們知道的 。
coral reef in new caledonia .	新克里多尼亞的珊瑚礁 。
100 percent of the coral may be wiped out before 2050 because of global warming .	百分之百的珊瑚可能在2050年前因為全球暖化而被消滅 。
and you know how coral are very sensitive to temperature , and are very important for the biodiversity of the sea .	你知道珊瑚對溫度有多敏感 , 對海洋的生物多樣性也很重要 。
north pole . i've done this picture last summer .	北極 , 我去年夏天拍了這張照片 。
it was impossible to do this picture 15 years ago .	15年前 , 拍下這張照片是不可能的 。
now there is a new way open between atlantic and pacific .	大西洋和太平洋之間有一種新的開放方式 。
the thickness of the arctic decreased more than 40 percent since 1960 .	自1960年起 , 北極的厚度減少了超過40% 。
there is a new face of kilimanjaro without ice .	有一面新的面貌 , 沒有冰 。
it lost 80 percent of its ice .	它失去了百分之八十的冰 。
according to scientists , in 100 years all the mountain glacier will be gone .	根據科學家 , 在一百年內 , 所有的山冰都消失了 。
glaciers are very important for the life on earth .	冰河對地球上的生命來說是非常重要的 。
like al gore told you , two billion people live on the water from the glacier of himalaya .	就像高爾所說的 , 二十億人住在水上來自喜馬拉雅冰河的冰河 。
return of fish men .	再回來談魚人 。
one fifth of human kind depend on fish to live .	五分之一的人類是依靠魚生存 。
today now 70 percent of the fish stock are overexploited .	現今百分之七十的魚都被過度利用 。
according to fao , if we don't change our system of fishing the main sea resources will be gone in 2050 .	根據聯準會 , 如果我們不改變捕魚系統的捕魚系統 , 2050年就會消失 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們知道的 。
the beautiful picture , by [unclear] in africa .	這張美麗的照片 , 是由非洲的[不清楚] 。
one human of six have not enough to eat in the world .	世界上六個人中有一位不夠吃東西的人 。
one billion people have not enough to eat .	十億人沒有足夠的食物 。
in africa , corn is one of the main foods in many places .	在非洲 , 玉米是許多地方的主要食物之一 。
here in america , 90 percent of the corn cultivated is used to feed animals or to do oil .	在美國 , 90%的玉米耕種是用來餵養動物或石油 。
palm tree plantation in borneo .	在婆羅洲棕櫚樹種植 。
every year we lose 50 thousand square miles in deforestation .	每年我們在森林砍伐的5000平方英里中消失了 。
refugee camp in darfur .	達爾富爾的難民營
today we have 20 million refugees in the world .	現今 , 世界上有二千萬難民 。
according to the u . n . , we speak about 250 million refugees in 2050 .	根據聯合國 , 在2050年 , 我們談到大約兩億五千萬難民 。
i always show my pictures in the street .	我總是在街上展示我的照片 。
we have done already 100 exhibitions in the cities .	我們已經在城市裡做了100個展覽 。
but how to understand the world without the voice of people ?	但如何在沒有人的聲音的情況下理解這個世界 ?
landscape was not enough .	景觀還不夠 。
it was obvious to me to do another work .	很顯然 , 我明顯能做另一件作品 。
i launched a project named six billion others .	我推出了一個計畫 , 叫做60億其他人 。
i sent around the world six cameramen asking the same question , the same crucial question , about life .	我在世界各地傳給六個相機人問同樣的問題 , 同樣的關鍵問題 , 關於生命 。
we have done five thousand interviews .	我們已經完成了5000次訪問 。
i'm going to show you this .	我要給你們看這個 。
man: the most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life ?	男人:這輩子最美好的事發生在我身上 ?
it's when my dad told me , " here , i give you this girl as your fiance . "	那時 , 我爸告訴我: 「 這裡 , 我把這個女孩視為你的小說 。 」
woman: love ? love is nice if you can have it .	女人:愛 ? 愛是很好的 , 如果你能有愛的話 。
second man: romeo and juliet , sassi and panno , dodi and diana , heer and ranjha , this is love ! third man: my greatest fear is . . .	第二個男人:羅密歐與茱麗葉 , 薩西 , 潘尼 , 多迪 , 多迪和戴安娜 , 海勒和ranja , 這是愛 ! 第三個男人:我最大的恐懼......
woman: you're asking me a hard question .	女人說:你問我一個困難的問題 。
fourth man: i live happily because what else should i do ?	第四個男人:我快樂地過生活 , 因為我還有什麼要做 ?
fifth man: the first thing i remember . . .	第五個男人:我記得的第一件事......
fifth man: . . . from my childhood , fifth man: we were having fun , biking .	第五個男人:從我小時候開始 , 第五個男人:我們在自行車上玩得很開心 。
seventh man: we invented stories , we flew around the world , while remaining in our attic .	第七個男人:我們創造故事 , 我們飛遍世界各地 , 同時還在我們的閣樓裡 。
eighth man: i had a big laugh today .	第八個男人:我今天有個大笑 。
ninth man: you see , family is . . . it's awful .	第九個男人:你看 , 家庭是......很糟糕 。
10th man: in the word life , you have the life .	第十個男人:在生命裡 , 你有生命 。
11th man: who am i ? isn't that the biggest question ?	第十一個男人:我是誰 ? 這不是最大的問題嗎 ?
12th man: if i was to go back to iraq and speak to the people , i'd have to bow down and kiss their feet .	第十二個男人:如果我回到伊拉克 , 跟人民說話 , 我就得親吻他們的腳 。
just as that woman tried to kiss my feet when we were taking her sons .	正如那位女士試圖親吻我的腳 , 當我們在接收她的兒子時 。
and i feel humbled by their strength .	我感到謙卑 , 感到謙卑 。
and i will forever feel a need to make reparations to iraq .	我永遠覺得有必要在伊拉克做重建 。
second woman: dad , mom , i grew up .	第二個女人:爸爸 , 媽媽 , 我長大了 。
you shouldn't worry about me . dad doesn't need to go to work .	你不用擔心我 。 爸爸不用去上班 。
my family . . . what can i say ?	我的家人...我能說什麼 ?
at the moment , my family is very poor , my life here in shenzhen is just about showing myself that i can earn more and to let my parents stay and have something to live on .	此時 , 我的家人很窮 , 我在深圳的人生 , 只是要讓自己知道 , 我能賺更多錢 , 讓我的父母能留下來 , 讓父母能活下去 。
i don't want them to spend their whole lives in poverty .	我不希望他們一生都在貧窮中度過 。
if someday i can achieve something , i would like to say thank you daddy and mommy .	如果有一天我能做到某件事 , 我想說謝謝你爸媽和媽媽 。
thank you for having fed me and raised me , and for making my life of today . thank you .	謝謝你餵養了我、養育了我 , 讓我今天的生活變得更加美好 。 謝謝 。
13th man: after seven years now of being in a wheelchair , i've done more in life being in a chair than out of a chair .	第十三個人:現在坐輪椅已經七年了 , 我在椅子上做得比坐在椅子上還多 。
i still surf . i sail the world . i freedive .	我仍然在衝浪 , 我航行這個世界 , 我自由了 。
after many people said i couldn't do that .	許多人說我做不到 。
and i think that comes from connecting with nature , connecting with the energy of life , because we're all disabled in some way on the planet spiritually , mentally or physically .	我認為這來自於與大自然連結 , 與生命的能量連結 , 因為我們都在某種程度上 , 在某種層面上 , 精神上 , 或身體上都是殘障的 。
i got the easy part .	我得到了簡單的那部份 。
14th man: let's say that you and me like each other .	第十四個男人:比方說你和我都很喜歡 。
you come from elsewhere .	你來自其他地方 。
you don't know me . i don't know you .	你不認識我 , 我不認識你 。
we talk without lying .	我們不會說謊 。
if i do like you , i give you one cow and many other things and we become friends .	如果我喜歡你 , 我會給你一頭牛和很多其他東西 , 我們就會變成朋友 。
how can we make it all by ourselves ?	我們要如何讓它全靠自己 ?
yab: you can also go to the website , answer respond to the questions also .	伊莎貝爾:你也可以上這個網站 , 回應那些問題 。
now i am going to speak to you about my movie .	現在我要和你們談談我的電影 。
for the last three years , i was shooting the earth for the movie .	過去三年 , 我拍攝了一部關於地球的電影 。
the name of the movie is " home " " maison . "	這部電影的名字是 「 家 」 馬里森 。
it is about the state of the planet .	重點是地球的狀況 。
it's a fantastic story of life on the earth .	這是個關於地球上生命的美好故事 。
i'm very proud to show you the teaser .	我很驕傲能讓你們看看這張圖片 。
video: this earth is four and a half billion years old .	影片:地球已經有四十五億年的歷史 。
these plants , several hundred million years old .	這些植物 , 已有數億年的歷史 。
and we humans have been walking upright for only 200 thousand years .	我們人類已經直立行走了大約兩萬年 。
we've managed to adapt , and have conquered the whole planet .	我們成功地適應了 , 並且征服了整個地球 。
for generations , we've been raising our children , not unlike millions of other species living beside us .	世代以來 , 我們一直在養育我們的孩子 , 不像住在我們身邊的數百萬個物種 。
for the past 30 years i've been closely watching the earth and its dwellers from high up in the sky .	過去30年來 , 我親眼目睹土地和它的居民從天上高高空向上觀看 。
our life is tied to the wellbeing of our planet .	我們的生活和地球的幸福緊緊相連 。
we depend on water , forests , deserts , oceans .	我們仰賴水、森林、沙漠、海洋 。
fishing , breeding , farming are still the world's foremost human occupations .	捕魚、繁殖、農業 , 至今仍然是世界上最重要的職業 。
and what binds us together is far greater than what divides us .	把我們結合在一起的 , 遠遠超過 「 分裂我們 」 的意思 。
we all share the same need for the earth's gifts the same wish to rise above ourselves , and become better .	我們對地球的禮物都有同樣的需求 , 希望能超越我們自己 , 變得更好 。
and yet we carry on raising walls to keep us apart .	然而 , 我們卻繼續在牆壁上築起牆壁 , 讓我們分崩離析 。
today our greatest battle is to protect the natural offerings of our planet .	今天最大的戰役就是保護地球的天然資源 。
in less than 50 years we've altered it more thoroughly than in the entire history of mankind .	在不到50年內 , 我們徹底改變了這一點 , 比人類歷史上全部都還要徹底 。
half of the world's forests have vanished .	世界上一半的森林已經消失了 。
water resources are running low .	水資源的運輸量很低 。
intensive farming is depleting soils .	密集的農作物正在耗盡土壤 。
our energy sources are not sustainable .	我們的能源來源不是永續的 。
the climate is changing .	氣候正在改變 。
we are endangering ourselves .	我們正在危害我們自己 。
we're only trying to improve our lives .	我們只在試著改善我們的生活 。
but the wealth gaps are growing wider .	但財富差距越來越廣 。
we haven't yet understood that we're going at a much faster pace than the planet can sustain .	我們還沒有了解到 , 地球所能承受的速度 , 比地球所能承受的還要快很多 。
we know that solutions are available today .	我們知道 , 解決方案現在是可以取得的 。
we all have the power to change this trend for the better .	我們都有能力改變這個趨勢 , 變得更好 。
so what are we waiting for ?	那我們還在等什麼呢 ?
yab: luc besson is the producer of the movie .	伊莎貝爾:lucbeson是這部電影的製作人 。
but it is not a normal movie .	但這不是一般的電影 。
the film is going to be distributed free .	這部電影將免費發行 。
this film has no copyright .	這部電影沒有版權 。
on the five of june , the environment day , everybody can download the movie on internet .	在六月五日 , 環境日 , 每個人都可以上網下載這部電影 。
the film is given for free to the distributor for tv and theater to show it the fifth of june .	這部電影免費提供給電視和劇場的分佈者 , 讓它在六月五日播放 。
there is no business on this movie .	這部電影沒有商業行為 。
it is also available for school , cities , ngos and you .	學校、城市、非政府組織、非政府組織等都可以使用 。
we have to believe what we know .	我們必須相信我們所知道的
let me tell you something .	讓我告訴各位一件事 。
it's too late to be pessimistic really too late .	太遲了 , 太悲觀了 , 太遲了 。
we have all a part of the solutions .	我們有解決方案的一部分 。
to finish , i would like to welcome the 4 , 700th baby born since the beginning of this talk .	最後 , 我想歡迎從演講開始 , 4 , 700個寶寶出生 。
merci beaucoup . i love you .	mercibeacoup 。 我愛你 。
illustrious jugglers the raspyni brothers show off their uncanny balance , agility , coordination and willingness to sacrifice . now , if you'll just stand completely still . . .	不可思議的雜技表演者──拉斯普尼兄弟──炫耀他們不可思議的平衡、敏捷、協調 , 以及願意犧牲的意願 。 若你能完全靜止 。
collaboration , entertainment , humor , physics	合作 , 娛樂 , 幽默 , 物理 ,
the raspyni brothers juggle and jest	拉斯pyni兄弟的雜耍和噴射機 。
dan holzman: please throw out the beanbag chairs . here we go .	丹•霍爾曼:請丟棄懶骨頭 。 開始吧 。
barry friedman: there are all kinds of hightech chairs here today , but this is really , i think , when it reached its peak as far as ergonomics , comfort , design , flexibility . . .	貝利•弗里德曼:現在有各種高科技的椅子 , 但這真的 , 我覺得 , 當它達到最高峰時 , 以人工學、舒適、設計、靈活度為前提 。
dh: now obviously , this is not something we do on our regular show ; it's something we just kind of learned for this , so we're going to try . but can we have some inspirational music for the beanbag chairs ?	顯然地 , 這不是我們在一般節目上所做的事 ; 有點像是我們在為這個節目學到的東西 , 所以我們要嘗試 。 但是我們能不能為懶骨頭做些鼓舞人心的音樂 ?
bf: nice show , daniel , nice show . you are the man !	很好 , 丹尼爾 , 很棒的表演 。 你就是那個人 !
nice show . man , that was good !	好極了 。 哇 , 太棒了 !
bf: you know , sometimes when people do those , they go all the way down .	布:你知道 , 有時候當人們這麼做時 , 他們會一直往下走 。
you actually just did that .	你剛剛做到了 。
that's the kind of extra effort that's gotten us where we are today . . .	這種額外的努力 , 促使我們今日的所在 。
dh: all right , let's show them something special .	好吧 , 讓我們給他們看一些特別的影片 。
bf: . . . without a macarthur grant .	bf:沒有macarthurgrant
yeah , look at this . you know , all kinds of different . . .	是的 , 看看這個 , 各式各樣的...
ted is about invention , let's be honest . right ? dh: yeah , it is .	ted的主題是發明 , 老實說吧 ? dh:是的 。
bf: last night , michael moschen showed some juggling props he has invented and working on .	michaelmoschen昨晚展示了一些雜耍的道具他已經發明並研究了
right now , dan's going to show something he actually invented .	現在 , 丹要展示他實際上發明的東西 。
dh: a type of juggling i actually invented , right after i saw another juggler do it .	哈德森:我真的發明了一種拋接雜耍 , 就在我看到另一隻拋接雜耍演員之後 。
dh: and this is a small excerpt from a longer piece .	這是一段很長的片段 。
folks , this is shaker cup juggling . it's not a showstopper but it certainly slows it down .	各位 , 這是雪克杯雜耍 , 不是表演家 , 但它確實會讓它慢下來 。
bf: oh yeah , it does .	噢 , 是的 。
bf: oh , daniel .	噢 , 丹尼爾 。
bf: ok . dh: oh ! all right .	好的 , dh:噢 , 好的 。
i'm now pushing my luck: i'm skipping right to six cups .	我現在在挑戰我的運氣:我正跳過六個杯子 。
in order to do six cups , i must have perfect control over three with my right hand .	為了要做六個杯子 , 我必須擁有完美的控制權 , 三個右手 。
bf: also three with his left .	布:左邊還有三個 。
and now , all six cups . should i do it on the first try or should i miss once on purpose ?	現在 , 六個杯子 。 我該先去嘗試 , 還是我該故意錯過一次 ?
bf: first try ? once on purpose ?	首先試試看 ? 曾經有目的嗎 ?
dh: how about if i try first and then decide ?	那如果我先試試看然後決定呢 ?
bf: good idea . let's leave that . we'll leave that door open .	布:好主意 。 結束吧 。 我們把那扇門打開 。
dh: he's looking at me .	他在看我 。
bf: that's all right , he does that . all right .	沒關係 , 他做到了 。 沒關係 。 沒關係 。
dh: oh ! it's time for richard's help .	噢 , 該是理查的幫忙的時候了 。
oh , good . all right .	噢 , 好 , 很好 。 很好 。
bf: you know , over the years , every year at the conference , it's kind of become a tradition for us to do something dangerous with richard . and we've always done something with the bullwhips in our act . it's funny , for years i did it with daniel holding balloons .	布:多年來 , 每一年在研討會上 , 都會變成一種傳統 , 用理查做一些危險的事 。 我們一直在表演中和牛鞭一起做些什麼 。 很有趣 , 多年來我用daniel拿著氣球做這件事 。
and then we thought , " how stupid . "	然後我們就想: 「 多麼愚蠢 。 」
dh: excuse me , could we work on the design of the microphone ?	抱歉 , 我們能否設計麥克風的設計 ?
bf: i think that's the next session .	布:我想這是下一個會議 。
bf: yeah . and so we've actually found a way to incorporate richard in this .	布:是的 , 我們真的找到一個方法來融合理查 。
he actually assumes more of the danger in this .	事實上 , 他假設這當中有更多的危險性 。
dh: please stand up , richard .	請站起來 , 理查 。
dh: now richard , please . . .	現在 , 理查 , 拜託......
bf: ok , sorry .	好 , 抱歉 。
dh: jesus christ . richard , please stand in front of me .	耶穌基督 。 理查 , 請站在我面前 。
richard wurman: can i say something ?	理查•沃爾曼:我能說點什麼嗎 ?
rw: in all past years i've rehearsed with them , the things that have happened to me i have no idea what's going to happen and that's the truth .	雷恩:在過去的幾年裡 , 我和他們一起排練過 , 發生在我身上的事情 , 我完全不知道會發生什麼事 , 而這就是事實 。
dh: all right , please stand here in front . . .	好 , 請站在前面...
god , i hate that . put your hands out like this , please .	天啊 , 我很討厭這樣 。 請把你的手伸出來 。
bf: no , come stay up with him .	布:沒有 , 請和他一起過來 。
dan used to actually hold them but now he's got you for protection .	以前的丹曾經抱著他們 , 但現在 , 他有了保護的權利 。
it's kind of neat . ok .	挺好的 , 好的 。
dh: wow , you've been working out .	哇 , 你已經開始研究了 。
bf: no , shut up !	不要 , 閉嘴 !
having a little bit of richard time . that's nice , that's good .	有一點理查時間 , 很棒 , 很棒 。
ok , here we go .	好 , 開始吧 。
have him hold your wrist so i can . . .	讓他抓著你的手腕 , 這樣我就可以......
dh: please hold my wrist , will you . bf: yeah , hold this a minute .	請抓著我的手 , 抓著你 。
ok , hold on .	好 , 等等 。
bf: all those midyear phone calls are coming back to me now , richard .	布:現在 , 所有這些半年的電話都回來了 , 理查 。
dh: so richard , what were we on the list ? like 1 , 020 ?	所以 , 理查 , 我們列出了什麼 ? 例如1 , 020 ?
bf: i think we were just outside .	我想我們就在外面 。
dh: sorry . bf: having some bad flashbacks .	不好意思 。 布:有一些不好的缺點 。
rw: do you want me to hold you or not ? dh: don't hold me that hard .	雷恩:你是否要我抱著你 ? 狄:不要把我抱得那麼難 。
bf: here we go , i'm taking it .	布:來了 , 我接受了 。
dh: one more , one more .	再來一次 。
bf: we've got one more we're going to do .	我們還有一個要做的 。
rw: do i get to hold them ?	雷恩:我能抓住他們嗎 ?
bf: you don't want to hold these , trust me .	布:你不想堅持下去 , 相信我 。
dh: could you spread your legs a little bit ?	可以把你的腿張開一點嗎 ?
bf: gloria , you want to do it ? it's very cool .	布朗:你想做嗎 ? 很酷 。
one more try . man , i don't want to get too close .	再試一次 。 我不想太接近 。
could you just push that ?	可以把它推開嗎 ?
dh: wow ! boy !	哇 !
bf: that's cool . i always wanted to try that .	太棒了 , 我一直想要試試看 。
dh: let's jump this way , though .	不過 , 讓我們用這種方式跳躍 。
now , we risked richard's life , it's only fair we risk our own lives .	我們冒著richard的生命危險 , 只是公平的我們冒著生命危險 。
so to do that , i will juggle these three razorsharp sickles .	為了做到這一點 , 我會用這三種鋒利鋒利的鐮刀作結 。
and if that wasn't enough , and judging by your response , it's not . . .	如果那還不夠 , 根據你的回應來做評斷 , 那不是......
dh: wow ! bf: hoping for a little more build .	哇 ! 哇 ! 希望再多做一點 。
dh: true . barry . . .	沒錯 。 貝瑞...
bf: i'm going to run up behind him .	我要跑到他後面去 。
dh: leap over my shoulder .	跳過我的肩膀 。
bf: up and over his shoulders .	在他的肩膀上和肩膀上 。
dh: grab the blades in midair , land right there in a pool of blood . . .	大衛:抓住半空中的刀 , 降落在那兒 。
impossible , you say ?	你說不可能 , 對吧 ?
bf: incredible , you say ?	你覺得很不可思議吧 ?
dh: why bother , you say ?	你說 , 為什麼麻煩呢 ?
bf: here we go .	我們開始吧 。
dh: just do it juggler boys , you say ?	你說 , 只要做個雜技表演者吧 ?
bf: this guy , this guy invented air .	布:這傢伙 , 他發明了空氣 。
dh: i think so , that's right .	沒錯 , 沒錯
bf: he invented the pencil .	他發明了鉛筆 。
dh: all right , we'll do this trick , but please remember it took us over 10 years to perfect .	沒關係 , 我們會做這個把戲 , 但請記住 , 我們花了超過10年才完成 。
bf: ten years to perfect , which you're about to see .	十歲到完美 , 即將看到的 。
dh: it's not that difficult , we just don't like to practice that much .	沒那麼難 , 我們只是不喜歡太常練習 。
bf: no , it's a hassle . traveling too much .	不 , 這是個麻煩 。 太常旅行 。
actually , we will take a second to prove this could be fake that the blades are indeed razorsharp .	事實上 , 我們會花點時間來證明這可能是假的 , 那些刀片確實是鋒利的 。
dh: will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage ?	有人要不要把一個小小的農場動物丟到台上 ?
or a virgin for a sacrifice ?	還是犧牲的處女 ?
bf: no , she's got . . . farm animal .	布:沒有 , 她有......農場動物 。
dh: do you have a small farm animal ?	你有一隻小小的農場動物嗎 ?
just trying to play the odds . all right , here we go .	只是試著玩奇怪 。 好 , 我們開始吧 。
bf: over the top , over the top .	布:在頂端 , 在頂端 。
dh: how you feeling , barry ? you feeling all right ?	你感覺如何 , 貝瑞 ? 你感覺很好嗎 ?
bf: yeah , it's all right .	是的 , 沒關係 。
dh: do you feel everything's ok ? the atmosphere , the . . .	你感覺到一切都還好嗎 ? 大氣 , 嗯...
bf: yeah , a little sketchy .	是的 , 一個小的草圖 。
dh: everything up here's ok ?	上面的每樣東西都還好嗎 ?
dh: then here we go .	然後我們開始吧 。
bf: this one's a little . . . who's doing the lights ? could you point that a little more directly into my eyeballs ? is that possible ? i can still see a little .	這一個有一點......是誰在發光 ? 可以直接點進我的眼球嗎 ? 這是有可能的嗎 ? 我還是可以看到一點點 。
dh: and turn up the intensity ; we're still pink in the middle .	注意 , 強度提升 , 我們中間仍然是粉紅色的 。
we went too far .	我們走得太遠了 。
bf: yeah , it's too far . it's too much of a visual .	布:是的 , 這太過頭了 , 太多視覺化了 。
the design of the body is a whole different thing .	身體的設計是完全不同的 。
dh: ready , barry ? bf: over the top .	準備好了 , 貝瑞 ? 貝瑞 ? 布:在頂端 。
dh: may we have our jumping music please ?	可以請我們的音樂跳躍吧 ?
may we have it a bit louder ?	我們能不能大聲說出來 ?
bf: they're a good crew ! whoa !	他們是很棒的員工 !
dh: whoa , sorry . all right .	哇 , 抱歉 。 沒關係 。
bf: we're going on .	繼續前進 。
dh: all right , we'll try again .	好 , 我們再試一次 。
bf: all right ? oh my gosh . oh .	好嗎 ? 噢 , 天啊 !
dh: all right , here we go . sorry about that .	好 , 我們開始吧 。 抱歉 。
bf: i thought i had the hard part . ok .	布:我以為我有困難的部分 , 好的 。
dh: whenever you're ready .	無論何時你準備好了 。
bf: there we go !	好了 !
all right , get up ! come on and dance ! dh: dance , come on . bf: come on and dance !	好吧 , 起來吧 ! 來吧 ! 舞動 ! 舞動 ! 舞動 ! 來吧 ! 舞動 !
somebody dance ! come on !	有人跳舞 ! 來吧 !
wow , wow , ok , stop .	哇 , 哇 , 好 , 停 。
weird , no one dances . we're two guys doing this .	奇怪的 , 沒有人跳舞 。 我們有兩個人在做這件事 。
i think that's uncomfortable for everyone .	我認為這對每個人來說都很不舒服 。
dh: the french judge . . .	法國法官......
bf: one more quick thing .	再快一點 。
dh: the french judge gives it a 5 . 2 .	法國法官給它5.2分 。
bf: well , you know . . .	布:嗯 , 你知道的 ,
dh: there you go . . . bf: oh , yeah . another one coming in .	哈德森:好的 , 來吧 。 噢 , 是的 , 再來一個 。
dh: tell them about our bio and stuff .	跟他們談談我們的生物和其他東西 。
bf: yeah . in our bio , some of you may have read that we've won two world juggling championships .	布:是的 , 在我們的生物界 , 有些人可能已經讀過 , 我們已經贏得了兩次世界雜耍冠軍 。
and believe it or not , you don't win juggling champions for doing things with bullwhips or shaker cups .	信不信由你 , 你無法贏得雜耍冠軍 , 只因為你是用牛肉或虎肉做的 。
we're going to show you right now an excerpt from a routine that we used to wipe out the other juggling team competition .	我們現在要給大家看一段我們以前用來消滅其他雜耍隊伍競賽的例行影片 。
dh: i know what you're thinking: other juggling teams must really suck .	我知道你在想什麼:其他雜耍隊伍一定會很糟 。
bf: juggling's got a bad rap .	雜耍有很糟的饒舌 。
dh: but wait , barry , there's still one more club lying there by my foot .	等一下 , 巴瑞 , 還有一個俱樂部躺在我的腳邊 。
and look , it has a twin !	看 , 它有一個雙胞胎 !
dh: there's still one more by my foot .	我還有一隻腳 。
what do you want me to do with it ?	你希望我用它做什麼 ?
bf: richard you tell him , it's your last year .	布:理查你告訴他 , 這是你去年的事了 。
dh: that's a pretty good setup , richard .	理查 , 這是很棒的安排 ,
bf: yeah , it's a good setup . that's a big setup .	沒錯 , 這是個很好的安排 , 這是個很大的安排 。
dh: you can't get any better than that . all right . what i will do: i will use my pantherlike reflexes .	沒辦法做得更好 。 很好 。 我要做的是:我要用像恐慌般的反射 。
dh: i got that to reach down and grab that club in my grip of steel .	我拿到那把棒子 , 抓住那根棒子 , 用我的鋼筋抓住那根棒子 。
dh: i touched it , barry . that should be enough .	哈德森:我碰到它 , 貝瑞 , 這應該夠了 。
bf: it's progress , that's the thing .	布:是進步 , 事情就是這樣 。
dh: how about that ? i'll do it again .	那呢 ? 我再做一次 。
oh wait , it's on your side , barry .	喔 , 等等 , 站在你這邊 , 貝瑞 。
and it's awfully windy over there .	那裡風很大 。
bf: it is , it's weird . you wouldn't think it would affect half the stage , but it is . it's weird .	布:是的 , 很奇怪 , 你不會覺得它會影響到一半 , 但確實很奇怪 。
watch this: what i'm going to do is slide the seventh one onto my foot .	看這個:我要做的是把第七個放在我的腳上 。
dh: wow ! what a great trick , barry !	哇 ! 太棒了 !
oh , look how it lies there .	噢 , 看它是怎麼躺在那裡的 。
oh , barry , is there nothing you can't do ?	喔 , 貝瑞 , 你做不了什麼嗎 ?
you are my hero . you're my jim shea , jr .	你是我的英雄 。 你是我的吉姆•希亞 , jr 。
bf: from my foot , i'll attempt to kick the seventh club . here we go .	布:從我的腳開始 , 我會試著踢出第七個俱樂部 。 開始吧 。
dh: where , barry ? where ? tell us , barry .	哪裡呢 ? 貝瑞 ? 哪裡 ? 哪裡 ? 告訴我們吧 ,
[unclear] eagerly awaits your next syllable . what will it be ?	熱切地等著下一個音符 , 會是什麼樣子 ?
what gem of knowledge ?	什麼是知識的寶貴 ?
what pearl of wisdom ?	什麼是智慧的珍珠 ?
do you want to buy a vowel , barry ?	你想要買一個母音嗎 ?
is that your final answer ?	這是你的最後一個答案嗎 ?
bf: all right ! you have to turn off the tv from time to time .	好吧 ! 你得時時刻刻關掉電視 。
dh: i do , i do .	沒錯 , 沒錯 。
bf: from my foot , the kick up in the seven .	布:從我的腳開始 , 七個就開始了 。
dh: we will juggle seven .	七個雜技表演者
bf: from six to seven . dh: that's a world's record . bf: really ? dh: for us .	bf:從6到7 。 這是個世界紀錄 。 真的嗎 ? dh:對我們來說 。
dh: whenever you're ready there , big guy .	無論何時你準備好了 , 大傢伙
put your tongue away , barry .	把你的舌頭伸開 , 貝瑞 。
bf: oh , oh , whoa .	噢 , 噢 !
dh: please , please stay seated . stay seated . thank you .	請坐好 , 請坐好 。 謝謝 。
because now , to make this twice as difficult , we'll juggle the seven clubs back . . .	因為 , 現在 , 要讓它變得更困難 , 我們會把那七根棒子拋回去......
dh: . . . to back .	h:...回來 。
bf: thank you , that's it .	布:謝謝 , 就這樣 。
bf: thank you guys !	謝謝大家 !
dh: thank you very much !	謝謝大家 !
in this accessible talk from tedxboston , richard resnick shows how cheap and fast genome sequencing is about to turn health care upside down .	在這場tedxboston的演講中 , 理查德•雷斯尼克的演講顯示 , 將要顛覆健康照護的基因定序有多便宜和快速 。
dna , biotech , health care , science , technology	dna、生物科技、健康照護、科學、科技等 。
richard resnick: welcome to the genomic revolution	理查德•雷斯尼克:歡迎來到基因革命 。
ladies and gentlemen , i present to you the human genome .	各位先生女士 , 我會給你們看人類基因組 。
chromosome one , top left .	染色體一 , 最左 。
bottom right are the sex chromosomes .	右下方是性染色體 。
women have two copies of that big x chromosome ; men have the x and , of course , that small copy of the y .	女人有兩份大的x染色體的複製品 ; 男人有一份x , 當然還有一小份y的複製品 。
sorry boys , but it's just a tiny little thing that makes you different .	對不起 , 男生們 , 但這只是個小東西 , 讓你與眾不同 。
so if you zoom in on this genome , then what you see , of course , is this double helix structure the code of life spelled out with these four biochemical letters , or we call them bases , right: a , c , g and t .	如果你放大這個基因組 , 你就會看到 , 當然 , 這個雙螺旋結構--生命的密碼--四個生化字母 , 或者我們稱它為鹼基 , 沒錯:a、c、g、t 。
how many are there in the human genome ? three billion .	人類基因組中有多少 ? 三十億 。
is that a big number ?	這是個很大的數字嗎 ?
well , everybody can throw around big numbers .	嗯 , 每個人都可以隨便丟出很大的數字 。
but in fact , if i were to place one base on each pixel of this 1280 by 800 resolution screen , we would need 3 , 000 screens to take a look at the genome .	但 , 事實上 , 如果我把這1280年的每一個像素放入一個基對 , 到800個解析度屏幕上 , 我們需要3000個螢幕來觀察基因組 。
so it's really quite big .	所以它真的很大 。
and perhaps because of its size , a group of people all , by the way , with y chromosomes decided they would want to sequence it .	也許是因為它的大小 , 一群人 , 順帶一提 , y染色體的人們 , 決定他們想要把染色體排序 。
and so 15 years , actually , and about four billion dollars later , the genome was sequenced and published .	事實上 , 15年後 , 大約40億美元後 , 基因組被定序並出版了 。
in 2003 , the final version was published , and they keep working on it .	在2003年 , 最終的版本被出版了 , 他們繼續研究它 。
that was all done on a machine that looks like this .	這一切都在一部像這樣子的機器上完成 。
it costs about a dollar for each base a very slow way of doing it .	每基底都要花一塊錢 , 非常緩慢的做法 。
well folks , i'm here to tell you that the world has completely changed and none of you know about it .	各位 , 我來這裡是要告訴各位 , 世界已經完全改變了 , 你們都不知道 。
so now what we do is we take a genome , we make maybe 50 copies of it , we cut all those copies up into little 50base reads , and then we sequence them , massively parallel .	現在我們做的是 , 我們將一個基因組做成50個複製品 , 我們把這些複製品切割成50個鹼基 , 然後我們把它們做成非常平行的序列 。
and then we bring that into software , and we reassemble it and we tell you what the story is .	然後我們把它放到軟體中 , 然後再重新組合它 , 再告訴你這個故事是什麼 。
and so just to give you a picture of what this looks like , the human genome project: 3 gigabases , right .	給大家看看這看起來是什麼樣子的 , 人類基因組計劃:3gabas , 沒錯 。
one run on one of these machines: 200 gigabases in a week .	一台機器跑來跑去:一週內200gabs 。
and that 200 is going to change to 600 this summer , and there's no sign of this pace slowing .	那個夏天 , 兩百人將會改變到六百年 , 沒有什麼跡象顯示這速度的緩慢 。
so the price of a base , to sequence a base , has fallen 100 million times .	要定序基礎的價格已經下跌了一億倍 。
that's the equivalent of you filling up your car with gas in 1998 , waiting until 2011 , and now you can drive to jupiter and back twice .	相當於你在1998年時把車裡裝滿油氣 , 一直到2011年 , 現在你可以開到木星上 , 前後再來兩次 。
world population , pc placements , the archive of all the medical literature , moore's law , the old way of sequencing , and here's all the new stuff .	世界人口、pc定位、所有醫學文獻的檔案、摩爾定律、舊定律 , 還有新東西 。
guys , this is a log scale ; you don't typically see lines that go up like that .	各位 , 這是對數尺度的看法 , 通常看不到像這樣的線條 。
so the worldwide capacity to sequence human genomes is something like 50 , 000 to 100 , 000 human genomes this year .	所以 , 全世界對於人類基因組的測序能力 , 今年大約有5萬到10萬人 。
and we know this based on the machines that are being placed .	我們知道這一點 , 基於被放置的機器 。
this is expected to double , triple or maybe quadruple year over year for the foreseeable future .	預計會有雙重、三重或四倍 , 年復一年會出現在可預期的未來 。
in fact , there's one lab in particular that represents 20 percent of all that capacity .	事實上 , 有一個實驗室 , 代表20%的容量 。
it's called the beijing genomics institute .	叫做北京的基因體研究所 。
the chinese are absolutely winning this race to the new moon , by the way .	順帶一提 , 中國在贏得這場比賽的中國 。
what does this mean for medicine ?	這對醫學意味著什麼 ?
so a woman is age 37 .	一個女人37歲 。
she presents with stage 2 estrogen receptorpositive breast cancer .	她帶著第二個雌激素受體雌激素受體的乳癌
she is treated with surgery , chemotherapy and radiation .	她接受了手術、化療和放射治療 。
two years later , she comes back with stage three c ovarian cancer .	兩年後 , 她又回到了 「 階段三 」 卵巢癌 。
unfortunately , treated again with surgery and chemotherapy .	不幸的是 , 再次用手術和化療來治療 。
she comes back three years later at age 42 with more ovarian cancer , more chemotherapy .	三年後 , 她在42歲時再次復發 , 得了卵巢癌 , 接受更多的化療 。
six months later , she comes back with acute myeloid leukemia .	六個月後 , 她再度患有急性骨髓性白血病 。
she goes into respiratory failure and dies eight days later .	她陷入呼吸道衰竭 , 八天後死亡 。
so first , the way in which this woman was treated , in as little as 10 years , will look like bloodletting .	首先 , 這位女性接受治療的方式 , 在短短的10年內 , 看起來就像是血跡 。
and it's because of people like my colleague , rick wilson , at the genome institute at washington university , who decided to take a look at this woman postmortem .	這是因為我的同事rickwilson在華盛頓大學基因組學院的研究人員決定研究這位女性後剖析
and he sequenced , he took skin cells , healthy skin , and cancerous bone marrow , and he sequenced the whole genomes of both of them in a couple of weeks , no big deal .	他定序 , 取下皮膚細胞 , 健康的皮膚 , 和癌症骨髓 , 並在幾週內完成了這兩組基因組的序列 , 沒什麼大不了 。
and then he compared those two genomes in software , and what he found , among other things , was a deletion , a 2 , 000base deletion across three billion bases in a particular gene called tp53 .	接著 , 他把這兩組基因組做比較 , 他發現 , 在其它事物中 , 有兩千個鹼基在一個叫做tp53的基因中 , 超過三十億個鹼基 。
if you have this deleterious mutation in this gene , you're 90 percent likely to get cancer in your life .	如果你在這個基因中有這種致命突變 , 你一生中有90%會罹患癌症 。
so unfortunately , this doesn't help this woman , but it does have severe , profound if you will , implications to her family .	不幸的是 , 這對這位女性沒有幫助 , 但這對她的家人來說是很嚴重、很深遠的 。
i mean , if they have the same mutation , and they get this genetic test , and they understand it , then they can go and get regular screens , and they can catch cancer early and potentially live a significantly longer life .	我的意思是 , 如果他們有相同的突變 , 他們得到了這個基因測試 , 然後他們了解它 , 然後他們可以定期去做篩檢 , 並且能夠早期發現癌症 , 有可能在更長壽的情況下活著 。
let me introduce you now to the beery twins , diagnosed with cerebral palsy at the age of two .	讓我向各位介紹啤酒雙胞胎 , 在兩歲時 , 被診斷出腦性麻痺 。
their mom is a very brave woman who didn't believe that the symptoms weren't matching up , and through some heroic efforts and a lot of internet searching , she was able to convince the medical community that , in fact , they had something else .	他們的母親是個非常勇敢的女性 , 她們不相信這些症狀與眾不同 , 透過一些英勇的努力和網際網路搜尋 , 她說服了醫療團體 , 實際上 , 他們還有別的 。
what they had was doparesponsive dystonia .	他們的做法是保護性的肌張力不全症 。
and so they were given ldopa , and their symptoms did improve , but they weren't totally asymptomatic .	所以他們得到了左旋多巴 , 他們的症狀確實有進步 , 但他們沒有完全的症狀 。
turns out the gentleman in this picture is a guy named joe beery , who was lucky enough to be the cio of a company called life technologies .	這張照片裡的先生是joebeery , 他很幸運地是一家叫做生命科技的公司的執行長 。
they're one of the two companies that makes these massive whole genome sequencing tools .	他們是兩家公司中的一員 , 製造出巨大的全基因定序工具 。
and so what he did was he got his kids sequenced .	他所做的是讓他的孩子們做的事被定序 。
and what they found was a series of mutations in a gene called spr , which is responsible for producing serotonin , among other things .	他們發現在一個叫做spr的基因中有一系列突變 , 負責製造血清素和其他東西的基因 。
so on top of ldopa , they gave these kids a serotonin precursor drug , and they're effectively normal now .	所以在左上方 , 他們給這些孩子一種血清素的前導性藥物 , 現在他們很正常 。
guys , this would never have happened without whole genome sequencing .	各位 , 如果沒有全部的基因定序 , 就不會有這種事發生 。
and at the time this was a few years ago it cost $100 , 000 .	在幾年前 , 花費10萬美元 。
today it's $10 , 000 . next year it's $1 , 000 .	今天是一萬美元 。 明年是一千美元 。
the year after it's $100 , give or take a year .	年復一年 , 價格是100元 , 還是一年 。
that's how fast this is moving .	這是它移動的速度 。
so here's little nick likes batman and squirt guns .	像蝙蝠俠和水槍一樣 ,
and it turns out nick shows up at the children's hospital with this distended belly like a famine victim .	結果發現 , 尼克在兒童醫院出現 , 肚子像個飢荒的受害者 。
and it's not that he's not eating , it's that when he eats , his intestine basically opens up and feces spill out into his gut .	不是說他沒有吃東西 , 而是當他吃飯的時候 , 他的腸道基本上就打開了 , 排泄物流到他的腸子裡 。
so a hundred surgeries later , he looks at his mom and says , " mom , please pray for me . i'm in so much pain . "	經過了一百次手術 , 他看著他的媽媽說: 「 媽媽 , 請祈禱我 , 我很痛苦 。 」
his pediatrician happens to have a background in clinical genetics and he has no idea what's going on , but he says , " let's get this kid's genome sequenced . "	他的小兒科醫生剛好有臨床遺傳學的背景 , 他完全不知道到底發生了什麼事 , 但他說: 「 讓我們把這個孩子的基因定序 。 」
and what they find is a singlepoint mutation in a gene responsible for controlling programmed cell death .	他們發現在控制細胞死亡的基因中 , 有一個單點突變 。
so the theory is that he's having some immunological reaction to what's going on to the food essentially , and that's a natural reaction , which causes some programmed cell death .	理論上 , 他的反應是對食物的反應有一定的反應 , 而這是一種自然反應 , 會造成一些編寫過的細胞死亡 。
but the gene that regulates that down is broken .	但是管制它的基因被破壞了 。
and so this informs , among other things , of course , a treatment for bone marrow transplant , which he undertakes .	這就告訴了其他事情 , 當然 , 除了對骨髓移植的治療之外 , 他也接受了 。
and after nine months of grueling recovery , he's now eating steak with a1 sauce .	經過九個月的嚴厲恢復後 , 他現在正在吃牛排 , 拿著a1醬汁 。
the prospect of using the genome as a universal diagnostic is upon us today .	使用基因組作為普遍診斷的前景就在我們今天面前 。
today , it's here .	今天 , 它就在這裡 。
and what it means for all of us is that everybody in this room could live an extra five , 10 , 20 years just because of this one thing .	這意味著在座的各位都可以再多活五、十年、二十年 , 只因為這一件事而已 。
which is a fantastic story , unless you think about humanity's footprint on the planet and our ability to keep up food production .	這是個了不起的故事 , 除非你想想人類在這個星球上的足跡 , 否則我們有能力可以提高食物產量 。
so it turns out that the very same technology is also being used to grow new lines of corn , wheat , soybean and other crops that are highly tolerant of drought , of flood , of pests and pesticides .	結果發現 , 同樣的技術也被用來種植新的玉米、小麥、黃豆 , 和其他高度包容乾旱、洪水、害蟲和殺蟲劑的作物 。
now look , as long as we continue to increase the population , we're going to have to continue to grow and eat genetically modified foods , and that's the only position that i'll take today .	看 , 只要我們繼續增加人口 , 我們就得繼續種植和吃基因改造的食物 , 這是我今天唯一要做的事 。
unless there's anybody in the audience that would like to volunteer to stop eating ?	除非觀眾中有人願意自願停止進食嗎 ?
none , not one .	沒有 , 沒有 。
this is a typewriter , a staple of every desktop for decades .	這是打字機 , 數十年來 , 每個桌上型電腦的主角 。
and in fact , the typewriter was essentially deleted by this thing .	事實上 , 打字機基本上被這個東西淘汰了 。
and then more general versions of word processors came about .	然後更普遍的文字處理器出現了 。
but ultimately , it was a disruption on top of a disruption .	但 , 最終 , 它是在破壞的頂端發生的 。
it was bob metcalfe inventing the ethernet and the connection of all these computers that fundamentally changed everything .	這是bobmetfe發明了ethernet以及所有連接著改變一切的電腦 。
and suddenly we had netscape , and we had yahoo and we had , indeed , the entire dotcom bubble .	突然間 , 我們有了netscape , 我們有了yahoo和我們 , 整個網路泡沫化 。
not to worry though , that was quickly rescued by the ipod , facebook and , indeed , angry birds .	不用擔心 , 很快就被ipod、facebook和憤怒的鳥類拯救了 。
look , this is where we are today .	聽著 , 這就是我們現今的狀況 。
this is the genomic revolution today . this is where we are .	這是今日的基因革命 。 這是我們現在所處的狀況 。
so what i'd like you to consider is: what does it mean when these dots don't represent the individual bases of your genome , but they connect to genomes all across the planet ?	所以 , 我想要各位思考的是:當這些點不代表你個人的基因組基礎時 , 是什麼意思 ? 但它們能和全世界的基因組連接起來 ?
so i just recently had to buy life insurance .	最近 , 我只需要購買生命保險 。
and i was required to answer: a . i have never had a genetic test , b . i've had one , here you go , and c . i've had one and i'm not telling .	我需要回答:a.我從來沒有過基因測試 , b.我有過 , 開始了 , c.我有過基因測試 , 我沒有說話.
thankfully , i was able to answer a , and i say that honestly in case my life insurance agent is listening .	謝天謝地 , 我能回答a , 老實說 , 以防我的生命保險經紀人在傾聽 。
but what would have happened if i had said c ?	但如果我說了c , 會發生什麼事 ?
consumer applications for genomics , they will flourish .	基因組學的消費者應用 , 會蓬勃發展 。
do you want to see whether you're genetically compatible with your girlfriend ? sure .	你想要知道你是否和你的女朋友基因上相容嗎 ? 當然 。
dna sequencing on your iphone ? there's an app for that .	dna定序在你的iphone上 ? 有一個應用程式 。
personalized genomic massage anyone ?	任何人都可以用個性化的基因按摩嗎 ?
there's already a lab today that tests for allele 334 of the avpr1 gene , the socalled cheating gene .	今日已經有實驗室在測試avpr1基因的alle34 , 也就是所謂的欺騙基因 。
so anybody who's here today with your significant other , just turn over to them and swab their mouth , send it to the lab and you'll know for sure .	所以 , 今天在座的各位 , 和你們一樣的其他人 , 只要轉過身來 , 換嘴 , 送到實驗室 , 這樣你們就會知道 。
do you really want to elect a president whose genome suggests cardiomyopathy ?	你真的想要選一位總統他的基因組建議心肌病嗎 ?
now think of it , it's 2016 and the leading candidate releases not only her four years of back tax returns , but also her personal genome .	想想看 , 2016年 , 主導的候選人不僅釋放她四年後的稅收 , 還有她個人的基因組 。
and it looks really good .	看起來還不錯 。
and then she challenges all of her competitors to do the same .	接著 , 她挑戰她所有的競爭者也要這樣做 。
do you think that's not going to happen ?	你認為這不會發生嗎 ?
do you think it would have helped john mccain ?	你認為這會對約翰•麥肯有幫助嗎 ?
how many people in the audience have the last name resnick like me ? raise your hand .	在座有多少人有像我一樣的姓氏resnick ? 請舉手 。
typically , there's one or two .	通常 , 總共有一到兩種 。
so my father's father was one of 10 resnick brothers .	我父親的父親是十位雷斯尼克兄弟 。
they all hated each other .	他們都討厭彼此 。
and they all moved to different parts of the planet .	它們都移到地球上不同的區域 。
so it's likely that i'm related to every resnick that i ever meet , but i don't know .	所以很可能我和所有我遇過的resnick有關 , 但我不知道 。
but imagine if my genome were deidentified , sitting in software , and a third cousin's genome was also sitting there , and there was software that could compare these two and make these associations .	但想像一下 , 如果我的基因被辨識出來 , 坐在軟體中 , 第三個表親的基因組也被安排在那兒 , 有軟體可以比較這兩者 , 並且製造出這些關聯 。
not hard to imagine . my company has software that does this right now .	不難想像 , 我的公司現在有軟體可以做到這一點 。
and so imagine one more thing: that that software is able to ask both parties for mutual consents , " would you be willing to meet your third cousin ? "	所以 , 再想一件事:這個軟體能夠要求雙方共同同意 , 「 你願意與你的三親見面嗎 ? 」
and if we both say yes , voila ! welcome to chromosomally linkedin .	如果我們都答應了 , voila ! 歡迎染色體連結 。
now this is probably a good thing , right ?	這可能是件好事 , 對吧 ?
you have bigger clan gatherings and so on .	你有更大的族群聚會 , 諸如此類的 。
but maybe it's a bad thing as well .	但這可能也是件壞事 。
how many fathers in the room ? raise your hands .	現場有幾位父親 ? 請舉手 。
okay , so experts think that one to three percent of you are not actually the father of your child .	好吧 , 專家認為1%到3%的人不是你孩子的父親 。
look these genomes , these 23 chromosomes , they don't in any way represent the quality of our relationships or the nature of our society at least not yet .	看看這些基因組 , 這23個染色體 , 它們並不代表我們的關係的品質 , 或我們社會的本質 , 至少目前還沒有 。
and like any new technology , it's really in humanity's hands to wield it for the betterment of mankind , or not .	如同任何新科技一樣 , 它的確是在人性的雙手中 , 為了人類的改善而戰勝它 。
and so i urge you all to wake up and to tune in and to influence the genomic revolution that's happening all around you .	所以 , 我呼籲大家一起醒來 , 調整並影響到身邊發生的基因革命 。
daniel kraft demos his marrow miner a new device that quickly harvests lifesaving bone marrow with minimal pain to the donor . he emphasizes that the adult stem cells found in bone marrow can be used to treat many terminal conditions , from parkinson's to heart disease .	丹尼爾•克拉夫 , 他的骨髓採取了一個新裝置 , 很快地將救命的骨髓移植到捐贈者身上 。 他強調 , 在骨髓中發現的成人幹細胞可以被用來治療許多末期條件 , 從帕金森氏症到心臟疾病 。
biology , biotech , health , health care , medicine , science , technology	生物、生物科技、健康、醫療、醫療、醫療、醫療、科學、科技、科技等 。
daniel kraft invents a better way to harvest bone marrow	丹尼爾克拉夫斯發明了一種更好的方法來收割骨髓 。
so i am a pediatric cancer doctor and stemcell researcher at stanford university where my clinical focus has been bone marrow transplantation .	我是一名小兒科癌醫生 , 也是史丹佛大學的幹細胞研究人員 , 我的臨床研究焦點是骨髓移植 。
now , inspired by jill bolte taylor last year , i didn't bring a human brain , but i did bring a liter of bone marrow .	去年jillboltetaylor的靈感來源 , 我沒有帶一個人腦 , 但我確實帶了一公升的骨髓 。
and bone marrow is actually what we use to save the lives of tens of thousands of patients , most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphoma and some other diseases .	骨髓其實是用來拯救數萬名病人的生命 , 大部分患有較先進的惡性腫瘤 , 如血癌、淋巴結 , 及其他疾病 。
so , a few years ago , i'm doing my transplant fellowship at stanford .	幾年前 , 我在史丹佛移植我的移植獎金 。
i'm in the operating room . we have bob here , who is a volunteer donor .	我在開刀房裡 。 我們這裡有bob , 他是一個志願捐贈者 。
we're sending his marrow across the country to save the life of a child with leukemia .	我們把他的骨髓送到全國各地 , 以拯救白血病孩童的生命 。
so actually how do we harvest this bone marrow ?	所以 , 我們要如何取得這塊骨髓 ?
well we have a whole o . r . team , general anesthesia , nurses , and another doctor across from me .	我們有一整個o.r.r.團隊 , 麻醉 , 護士 , 和我的另一位醫生.
bob's on the table , and we take this sort of small needle , you know , not too big .	鮑勃在桌上 , 我們拿著這支小針 , 不是太大的 。
and the way we do this is we basically place this through the soft tissue , and kind of punch it into the hard bone , into the tuchus that's a technical term and aspirate about 10 mls of bone marrow out , each time , with a syringe .	基本上 , 我們是用柔軟的組織將它輸入硬骨頭 , 輸送到tuchus這是個技術用語 , 每次使用注射器時 , 大約十mls的骨髓出去 。
and hand it off to the nurse . she squirts it into a tin .	然後把它交給護士 。 她將它注射到一個釘子裡 。
hands it back to me . and we do that again and again .	把它交還給我 。 我們一而再再而三地這樣做 。
about 200 times usually .	大約兩百次 。
and by the end of this my arm is sore , i've got a callus on my hand , let alone bob , whose rear end looks something more like this , like swiss cheese .	我的手臂末端是索雷爾 , 我手上有通話機 , 更不用說bob了 , 他的屁股看起來更像這樣 , 像瑞士起士起士 。
so i'm thinking , you know , this procedure hasn't changed in about 40 years .	所以我在想 , 你知道嗎 , 這項手術四十年來沒有改變 。
and there is probably a better way to do this .	或許有更好的方法來做這件事 。
so i thought of a minimally invasive approach , and a new device that we call the marrow miner .	所以我想出了一個最小侵入性的方法 , 一個我們稱之為骨髓的新裝置 。
and the marrow miner , the way it works is shown here .	而它運作的方式 , 在這裡顯示的 。
our standard seethrough patient .	我們的標準見到患者 。
instead of entering the bone dozens of times , we enter just once , into the front of the hip or the back of the hip .	與其進入骨頭數十次 , 我們只需進入一次 , 進入骨頭 , 進入骨頭的前面 , 或臀部的後面 。
and we have a flexible , powered catheter with a special wire loop tip that stays inside the crunchy part of the marrow and follows the contours of the hip , as it moves around .	我們有一個靈活的導管 , 帶著一個特殊的電線圈尖 , 可以在骨髓中擠壓的部分 , 跟著它四處走動 。
so it enables you to very rapidly aspirate , or suck out , rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole .	它可以讓你非常快速地吸引或吸出豐富的骨髓 , 快速地通過一個洞 。
we can do multiple passes through that same entry .	我們可以通過相同的入口多次進口 。
and , so , very quickly , bob can just get one puncture , local anesthesia , and do this harvest as an outpatient .	所以 , 很快地 , 鮑勃只能得到一個穿刺 , 局部麻醉 , 這樣做 , 哈維斯特作為一個門診 。
so i did a few prototypes . i got a small little grant at stanford .	所以我做了一些原型 。 我在史丹佛得到了一個小額獎助 。
and played around with this a little bit .	稍微玩一下這個 。
and our team members developed this technology .	我們的團隊成員開發了這項技術 。
and eventually we got two large animals , and pig studies .	最後我們得到兩種大型動物和豬的研究 。
and we found , to our surprise , that we not only got bone marrow out , but we got 10 times the stem cell activity in the marrow from the marrow miner , compared to the normal device .	我們發現 , 出乎我們的意料之外 , 我們不但把骨髓移除 , 我們還發現了骨髓內骨髓內的幹細胞活動 , 相較一般的裝置 , 比一般的裝置 , 比一般的骨髓幹細胞活動的10倍 。
this device was just fda approved in the last year .	這個裝置在去年才被美國食品及藥物管理局批准 。
here is a live patient . you can see it following the flexible curves around .	這是一名活生生的病人 , 你可以看到 , 它遵循著彎曲的彎曲 。
there will be two passes here , in the same patient , from the same hole .	在同一個病人 , 同一個病人 , 同一個洞 , 會有兩段路徑 。
this was done under local anesthesia , as an outpatient .	這是在局部麻醉下完成的 , 做為門診病人 。
and we got , again , about three to six times more stem cells than the standard approach done on the same patient .	同樣的 , 我們得到的 , 比起一般標準的方法 , 大約三到六倍的幹細胞 。
so why should you care ? bone marrow is a very rich source of adult stem cells .	所以 , 你為什麼要在乎呢 ? 骨髓是非常豐富的成人幹細胞來源 。
you all know about embryonic stem cells .	你們都知道關於胚胎幹細胞 。
they've got great potential but haven't yet entered clinical trials .	他們有很大的潛力 , 但還沒有進入臨床試驗 。
adult stem cells are throughout our body , including the bloodforming stem cells in our bone marrow , which we've been using as a form of stemcell therapy for over 40 years .	成人幹細胞遍佈我們身體各處 , 包括我們骨髓內的血液變形幹細胞 , 已被當作幹細胞療法使用了超過四十年 。
in the last decade there's been an explosion of use of bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient's other diseases such as heart disease , vascular disease , orthopedics , tissue engineering , even in neurology to treat parkinson's and diabetes .	近十年來 , 已有一場大爆炸 , 利用骨髓幹細胞來治療病人的其他疾病 , 如心臟病、血管疾病、組織工程 , 甚至在神經學上治療帕金森氏症和糖尿病 。
we've just come out , we're commercializing , this year , generation 2 . 0 of the marrow miner .	今年 , 我們剛出櫃 , 正在商業化 , 相當於2.0世代的骨髓礦工 。
the hope is that this gets more stem cells out , which translates to better outcomes .	希望這會吸收更多幹細胞 , 翻譯成更好的結果 。
it may encourage more people to sign up to be potential livesaving bone marrow donors .	可能鼓勵更多人登記成為能拯救生命的骨髓捐贈者 。
it may even enable you to bank your own marrow stem cells , when you're younger and healthier , to use in the future should you need it .	甚至可能讓你可以在更年輕、更健康的情況下利用你自己的骨髓幹細胞 。
and ultimately and here's a picture of our bone marrow transplant survivors , who come together for a reunion each year at stanford .	最後 , 這是一張我們骨髓移植倖存者的照片 , 他們每年都會在史丹佛聚會 。
hopefully this technology will let us have more of these survivors in the future .	希望這項技術能讓我們在未來有更多的倖存者 。
physicist and surfer garrett lisi presents a controversial new model of the universe that just maybe answers all the big questions . if nothing else , it's the most beautiful 8dimensional model of elementary particles and forces you've ever seen .	物理學家和衝浪者garretlisi提出了一個有爭議的宇宙模型 , 它可能可以回答所有的大問題 。 如果沒有 , 它是你所見過最美麗的8維模型 。
physics , science , technology	物理、科學、科技 ,
garrett lisi on his theory of everything	哈雷特里特•利西對每件事的理論都提出了他的理論 。
whoa , dude . check out those killer equations . sweet .	哇 , 老兄 , 看看那些致命方程式 。
actually , for the next 18 minutes i'm going to do the best i can to describe the beauty of particle physics without equations .	事實上 , 在接下來的18分鐘裡 , 我要盡我所能地描述粒子物理學的美好 , 卻沒有方程式 。
it turns out there's a lot we can learn from coral .	事實證明 , 我們能從珊瑚身上學到很多東西 。
coral is a very beautiful and unusual animal .	珊瑚是非常美麗且不尋常的動物 。
each coral head consists of thousand of individual polyps .	每個珊瑚的頭部由上千個珊瑚群組成 。
these polyps are continually budding and branching into genetically identical neighbors .	這些珊瑚持續地生長和分裂成為基因相同的鄰居 。
if we imagine this to be a hyperintelligent coral , we can single out an individual and ask him a reasonable question .	如果我們把它想像成一個超高度智能的珊瑚 , 我們可以單獨挑出一個珊瑚 , 問他一個合理的問題 。
we can ask how exactly he got to be in this particular location compared to his neighbors if it was just chance , or destiny , or what ?	我們可以問他在這個地方和他鄰居的相比 , 到底他到底有多好 , 或多大 , 或什麼 ?
now , after admonishing us for turning the temperature up too high , he would tell us that our question was completely stupid .	在我們把溫度升高過高的一月之後 , 他會告訴我們 , 我們的問題完全是愚蠢的 。
these corals can be quite kind of mean , you see , and i have surfing scars to prove that .	這些珊瑚可以很像 , 你看 , 我有衝浪的疤痕可以證明這一點 。
but this polyp would continue and tell us that his neighbors were quite clearly identical copies of him .	但這珊瑚會繼續告訴我們 , 他的鄰居很明顯地和他一模一樣 。
that he was in all these other locations as well , but experiencing them as separate individuals .	他也處在其他地方 , 但身為獨立個體 , 卻感受到他們 。
for a coral , branching into different copies is the most natural thing in the world .	對珊瑚而言 , 分支成不同的複製品是世界上最自然的東西 。
unlike us , a hyperintelligent coral would be uniquely prepared to understand quantum mechanics .	和我們不一樣 , 超級聰明的珊瑚 , 將會是獨一無二的準備 , 來了解量子力學 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics very accurately describes how our universe works .	量子力學的數學方法非常準確地描述宇宙的運作方式 。
and it tells us our reality is continually branching into different possibilities , just like a coral .	它告訴我們 , 我們的現實是持續分裂成不同的可能性 , 就像珊瑚一樣 。
it's a weird thing for us humans to wrap our minds around , since we only ever get to experience one possibility .	這對我們人類來說是很奇怪的 , 因為我們只能經歷一種可能性 。
this quantum weirdness was first described by erwin schrödinger and his cat .	這種量子力學的奇特現象最初是由薛丁格和他的貓所描述的 。
the cat likes this version better .	貓比較喜歡這個版本 。
in this setup , schrödinger is in a box with a radioactive sample that , by the laws of quantum mechanics , branches into a state in which it is radiated and a state in which it is not .	在這個裝置裡 , 薛丁格在一個有放射性樣本的盒子裡 , 根據量子力學定律的定律 , 分支成一個放射線的狀態 , 一個沒有放射線的狀態 。
in the branch in which the sample radiates , it sets off a trigger that releases poison and schrödinger is dead .	在輻射樣本的枝幹裡 , 引發了一個觸發器 , 釋放有毒物質和薛丁格已經死亡 。
but in the other branch of reality , he remains alive .	但在現實的另一個分支中 , 他仍然活著 。
these realities are experienced separately by each individual .	每個個體都有不同的經歷 。
as far as either can tell , the other one doesn't exist .	不論如何 , 另一種可能是不存在的 。
this seems weird to us , because each of us only experiences an individual existence , and we don't get to see other branches .	這對我們來說很奇怪 , 因為我們每一個人都只能經歷一個獨立的存在 , 而我們無法看到其他的分支 。
it's as if each of us , like schrödinger here , are a kind of coral branching into different possibilities .	好像我們每個人 , 像薛丁格 , 都有點像是珊瑚分支 , 分支成不同的可能性 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics tells us this is how the world works at tiny scales .	量子力學的數學理論告訴我們 , 這就是世界在微小的尺度下運作的方式 。
it can be summed up in a single sentence: everything that can happen , does .	它可以用一個句子總結:所有可能發生的事都可以做 。
but this does not mean everything happens .	但這並不表示所有事情都會發生 。
the rest of physics is about describing what can happen and what can't .	其餘的物理學是要描述可能發生的事和不能發生的事 。
what physics tells us is that everything comes down to geometry and the interactions of elementary particles .	物理學告訴我們的是 , 一切都是幾何學 , 以及基本粒子的相互作用 。
and things can happen only if these interactions are perfectly balanced .	唯有這些互動是完全平衡的 , 事情才有可能發生 。
now i'll go ahead and describe how we know about these particles , what they are and how this balance works .	現在我要描述一下我們對這些粒子的了解 , 它們是什麼 , 以及它們的平衡是如何運作的 。
in this machine , a beam of protons and antiprotons are accelerated to near the speed of light and brought together in a collision , producing a burst of pure energy .	在這個機器中 , 質子和反質子的光束會加速到接近光速的速度 , 以碰撞的方式聚集在一起 , 產生出純能量的衝擊 。
this energy is immediately converted into a spray of subatomic particles , with detectors and computers used to figure out their properties .	這種能量馬上被轉換為亞原子粒子的噴霧器 , 用偵測器和電腦來分析它們的性質 。
this enormous machine the large hadron collider at cern in geneva has a circumference of 17 miles and , when it's operating , draws five times as much power as the city of monterey .	這個巨大的機器 , 日內瓦的大型強子對撞機的周長有17英里 , 當它在運作時 , 產生的能量相當於蒙特利的城市的五倍 。
we can't predict specifically what particles will be produced in any individual collision .	我們無法精確地預測哪些粒子會在任何個體對撞中產生 。
quantum mechanics tells us all possibilities are realized .	量子力學告訴我們一切皆可能 。
but physics does tell us what particles can be produced .	但物理學告訴我們什麼粒子能被製造出來 。
these particles must have just as much mass and energy as is carried in by the proton and antiproton .	這些粒子的質子和能量必須由質子和反質子所帶著的質量和能量相同 。
any particles more massive than this energy limit aren't produced , and remain invisible to us .	任何顆粒都比能量極限更大的粒子都不會生成 , 而且對我們來說都是看不見的 。
this is why this new particle accelerator is so exciting .	這就是為什麼新粒子加速器如此令人興奮的原因 。
it's going to push this energy limit seven times beyond what's ever been done before , so we're going to get to see some new particles very soon .	它將超越前所未有的能量極限七倍 , 所以我們很快就會看到一些新的粒子 。
but before talking about what we might see , let me describe the particles we already know of .	但在談我們可能看到什麼之前 , 讓我描述我們已知的粒子 。
there's a whole zoo of subatomic particles .	亞原子粒子有一整個動物園
most of us are familiar with electrons .	我們大部分人都熟悉電子
a lot of people in this room make a good living pushing them around .	在座的各位 , 許多人在這個房間裡過著良好的生活來推動他們 。
but the electron also has a neutral partner called the neutrino , with no electric charge and a very tiny mass .	但電子也有中性伴侶 , 稱為微中子 , 沒有帶電 , 和非常小的質量 。
in contrast , the upanddown quarks have very large masses , and combine in threes to make the protons and neutrons inside atoms .	相對的 , 上夸克的夸克有很大的質量 , 用三種方式組成質子和中子 。
all of these matter particles come in left and righthanded varieties , and have antiparticle partners that carry opposite charges .	所有這些物質粒子都在左邊和右手邊 , 還有攜帶相反電荷的反粒子 。
these familiar particles also have less familiar second and third generations , which have the same charges as the first but have much higher masses .	這些熟悉的粒子也有比較不熟悉的第二代和第三代 , 第一代有相同的載荷 , 但質量較高 。
these matter particles all interact with the various force particles .	這些物質粒子都會和不同的力粒子互動 。
the electromagnetic force interacts with electrically charged matter via particles called photons .	透過光子 , 電磁力和帶電粒子的電磁力相互作用 。
there is also a very weak force called , rather unimaginatively , the weak force , that interacts only with lefthanded matter .	另外還有一種非常微弱的力 , 難以想像的 , 這種弱力 , 只能和左旋物質互動 。
the strong force acts between quarks which carry a different kind of charge , called color charge , and come in three different varieties: red , green and blue .	夸克之間的強力作用力帶有一種不同的載荷 , 叫做顏色載荷 , 由三種不同品種產生:紅綠和藍 。
you can blame murray gellmann for these names they're his fault .	你可以怪罪莫里•蓋爾曼 , 因為這些名字是他的錯 。
finally , there's the force of gravity , which interacts with matter via its mass and spin .	最後 , 有重力 , 透過質量和旋轉 , 透過它的質量和物質產生交互作用 。
the most important thing to understand here is that there's a different kind of charge associated with each of these forces .	最重要的是 , 每一種力都各不相同的載荷 。
these four different forces interact with matter according to the corresponding charges that each particle has .	這四種不同的力量會根據每個粒子所擁有的載荷互動 。
a particle that hasn't been seen yet , but we're pretty sure exists , is the higgs particle , which gives masses to all these other particles .	一個還沒被看見的粒子 , 但我們很確定存在 , 就是希格斯粒子 , 它給了所有其他的粒子質量 。
the main purpose of the large hadron collider is to see this higgs particle , and we're almost certain it will .	大型強子對撞機的主要目的是要看到希格斯粒子 , 我們幾乎確定它會發生 。
but the greatest mystery is what else we might see .	但最大的奧秘在於我們還能看到什麼 。
and i'm going to show you one beautiful possibility towards the end of this talk .	我將向你們展示一段美麗的可能性 , 讓這場演說結束 。
now , if we count up all these different particles using their various spins and charges , there are 226 .	如果我們用不同的旋轉和載荷計算所有這些不同的粒子 , 總共有226個 。
that's a lot of particles to keep track of .	這是很多粒子用來追蹤的 。
and it seems strange that nature would have so many elementary particles .	很奇怪 , 大自然有這麼多的基本粒子 。
but if we plot them out according to their charges , some beautiful patterns emerge .	但如果我們根據他們的指控來畫出它們 , 一些美麗的圖案出現了 。
the most familiar charge is electric charge .	最熟悉的電荷是電荷 。
electrons have an electric charge , a negative one , and quarks have electric charges in thirds .	電子有一個負電荷 , 夸克有三分之一的電荷 。
so when two up quarks and a down quark are combined to make a proton , it has a total electric charge of plus one .	所以當兩個上夸克和一個下夸克結合成一個質子時 , 它的電荷總量是一加一加一加 。
these particles also have antiparticles , which have opposite charges .	這些粒子也有反粒子 , 相反的載荷 。
now , it turns out the electric charge is actually a combination of two other charges: hypercharge and weak charge .	結果發現 , 電荷其實是另外兩種載荷的結合:超荷和弱荷 。
if we spread out the hypercharge and weak charge and plot the charges of particles in this twodimensional charge space , the electric charge is where these particles sit along the vertical direction .	如果我們把超荷和弱荷分開在這個二度載荷空間中畫出粒子載荷的位置 , 電荷就是這些粒子在垂直方向的位置 。
the electromagnetic and weak forces interact with matter according to their hypercharge and weak charge , which make this pattern .	電磁力和弱力會根據超荷和弱荷而產生交互作用 , 產生這種模式 。
this is called the unified electroweak model , and it was put together back in 1967 .	這被稱為 「 統一的電子傳播模式 」 , 它在1967年被重新組合起來 。
the reason most of us are only familiar with electric charge and not both of these is because of the higgs particle .	我們之所以只熟悉電荷 , 而不是這兩者都是因為希格斯粒子的緣故 。
the higgs , over here on the left , has a large mass and breaks the symmetry of this electroweak pattern .	左邊的希格斯粒子有很大的質量 , 打破了這個波紋的對稱性 。
it makes the weak force very weak by giving the weak particles a large mass .	它讓弱力非常弱 , 因為它給弱粒子一個很大的質量 。
since this massive higgs sits along the horizontal direction in this diagram , the photons of electromagnetism remain massless and interact with electric charge along the vertical direction in this charge space .	由於這個巨大的希格斯粒子在水平方向上 , 電磁力學的光子仍然是無質量的 , 並且在載荷空間中與電荷相互作用 。
so the electromagnetic and weak forces are described by this pattern of particle charges in twodimensional space .	電磁力和弱力是用這種二度空間的粒子載荷模式來描述的 。
we can include the strong force by spreading out its two charge directions and plotting the charges of the force particles in quarks along these directions .	我們可以將強力加入 , 藉由將兩個載荷方向擴散 , 將載力粒子沿這些方向標示出來 。
the charges of all known particles can be plotted in a fourdimensional charge space , and projected down to two dimensions like this so we can see them .	所有已知粒子的載荷可以在四度空間中畫出來 , 投射到像這樣的二度空間中 , 這樣我們可以看到 。
whenever particles interact , nature keeps things in a perfect balance along all four of these charge directions .	每當粒子相互作用 , 自然就會在完美的平衡中保持完美 。 四個載荷方向都是 。
if a particle and an antiparticle collide , it creates a burst of energy and a total charge of zero in all four charge directions .	如果粒子和反粒子的碰撞 , 就會產生出爆炸的能量 , 以及四個載荷方向的載荷 。
at this point , anything can be created as long as it has the same energy and maintains a total charge of zero .	此時此刻 , 任何東西都可以產生 , 只要它擁有相同的能量 , 並且保持完全零電荷 。
for example , this weak force particle and its antiparticle can be created in a collision .	比如 , 這種弱力粒子和其反粒子可以在碰撞中產生 。
in further interactions , the charges must always balance .	在更進一步的互動中 , 載荷必須保持平衡 。
one of the weak particles could decay into an electron and an antineutrino , and these three still add to zero total charge .	一個弱的粒子可以衰退成一個電子和一個反中子 , 這三個粒子仍然會增加到零總電荷 。
nature always keeps a perfect balance .	大自然總是保持完美的平衡 。
so these patterns of charges are not just pretty .	所以這些載荷的圖案並不是很漂亮 。
they tell us what interactions are allowed to happen .	他們告訴我們什麼樣的互動是被允許的 。
and we can rotate this charge space in four dimensions to get a better look at the strong interaction , which has this nice hexagonal symmetry .	我們可以在四度空間中旋轉載荷空間 , 以得到更好的觀察強相互作用 , 這種對稱性很高 。
in a strong interaction , a strong force particle , such as this one , interacts with a colored quark , such as this green one , to give a quark with a different color charge this red one .	在強大的相互作用中 , 強力的粒子 , 比如這個 , 和有顏色的夸克互動 , 比如這個綠色的 , 讓夸克有不同的顏色來載紅色 。
and strong interactions are happening millions of times each second in every atom of our bodies , holding the atomic nuclei together .	強相互作用每秒都在我們身體的每個原子中發生數百萬次 , 將原子核融合在一起 。
but these four charges corresponding to three forces are not the end of the story .	但這四種載荷相對應的三種力量並不是故事的結尾 。
we can also include two more charges corresponding to the gravitational force .	我們還可以將兩個載荷與重力相對應 。
when we include these , each matter particle has two different spin charges , spinup and spindown .	當我們把它們納入 , 每個粒子都有兩種不同的旋轉載荷 , 旋轉和旋轉載荷 。
so they all split , and give a nice pattern in sixdimensional charge space .	所以它們都分裂了 , 在六度載荷空間中形成一個完美的圖案 。
we can rotate this pattern in six dimensions , and see that it's quite pretty .	我們可以在六度空間裡旋轉這個圖案 , 看看它很漂亮 。
right now , this pattern matches our best current knowledge of how nature is built at the tiny scales of these elementary particles .	此時此刻 , 這個圖案符合我們目前對於大自然的最佳知識 , 在這些基本粒子的尺度下 ,
this is what we know for certain .	這是我們確信的知識 。
some of these particles are at the very limit of what we've been able to reach with experiments .	有些粒子的極限在實驗中 。
from this pattern , we already know the particle physics of these tiny scales . the way the universe works with these tiny scales is very beautiful .	從這個模式 , 我們已經知道這些微小尺度的粒子物理學 。 宇宙是如何以極小的尺度運作的 , 非常美麗 。
but now i'm going to discuss some new and old ideas about things we don't know yet .	但現在我要討論一些關於我們還不知道的新、舊的想法 。
we want to expand this pattern using mathematics alone , and see if we can get our hands on the whole enchilada .	我們想要僅僅用數學來擴展這個模式 , 看看我們能否把我們的手放到整個安吉拉達 。
we want to find all the particles and forces that make a complete picture of our universe .	我們想要找到構成宇宙的所有粒子和力 。
and we want to use this picture to predict new particles that we'll see when experiments reach higher energies .	我們希望用這張圖來預測新的粒子 , 當實驗到達更高的能量時 。
so there's an old idea in particle physics that this known pattern of charges , which is not very symmetric , could emerge from a more perfect pattern that gets broken similar to how the higgs particle breaks the electroweak pattern to give electromagnetism .	在粒子物理學中有一種古老的想法 , 這種已知的載荷模式 , 不對稱 , 可以從一個更完美的圖案中產生出來 , 類似希格斯粒子如何打破電弱的模式 , 來產生電磁力 。
in order to do this , we need to introduce new forces with new charge directions .	為了達成這個目標 , 我們需要引進新的載荷方向 。
when we introduce a new direction , we get to guess what charges the particles have along this direction , and then we can rotate it in with the others .	當我們介紹一個新的方向時 , 我們能猜出粒子在這個方向上所帶的載荷 , 然後我們就可以讓它和其他的粒子一起旋轉 。
if we guess wisely , we can construct the standard charges in six charge dimensions as a broken symmetry of this more perfect pattern in seven charge dimensions .	若我們明智地猜測 , 我們可以在六度載荷維度中建構標準載荷 , 做為破解的對稱性 , 在這七度載荷度下 , 完美的圖案 。
this particular choice corresponds to a grand unified theory introduced by pati and salam in 1973 .	這項特別的選擇 , 引入了大統一理論 , 由帕蒂和薩拉姆在1973年推出 。
when we look at this new unified pattern , we can see a couple of gaps where particles seem to be missing .	當我們觀察這個新的統一模式時 , 我們可以看到一些粒子似乎缺少的空缺 。
this is the way theories of unification work .	這就是統一理論的理論 。
a physicist looks for larger , more symmetric patterns that include the established pattern as a subset .	物理學家會尋找更大、更對稱的模式 , 包含已知的模式 , 作為一個子集 。
the larger pattern allows us to predict the existence of particles that have never been seen .	更大的圖案能讓我們預測從未見過的粒子的存在 。
this unification model predicts the existence of these two new force particles , which should act a lot like the weak force , only weaker .	這個統一模型預測了這兩種新力粒子的存在 , 該作用的程度很像弱力 , 只是比較弱 。
now we can rotate this set of charges in seven dimensions and consider an odd fact about the matter particles: the second and third generations of matter have exactly the same charges in sixdimensional charge space as the first generation .	現在我們可以在七度空間中旋轉這一組載荷 , 考慮到關於粒子的奇怪現象:第二代和第三代物質的載荷與第一代物質的載荷相同 。
these particles are not uniquely identified by their six charges .	這些粒子的獨特性不是它們的六個載荷 。
they sit on top of one another in the standard charge space .	在標準載荷空間中 , 它們會彼此坐在對方的頂端 。
however , if we work in eightdimensional charge space , then we can assign unique new charges to each particle .	然而 , 如果我們在八度載荷空間中工作 , 我們就能對每個粒子分配出獨特的新載荷 。
then we can spin these in eight dimensions , and see what the whole pattern looks like .	然後在八度空間裡旋轉 , 看看整個圖案是什麼樣子的 。
here we can see the second and third generations of matter now related to the first generation by a symmetry called " triality . "	這裡我們可以看到物質的第二代和第三代物質的交互作用 , 由一個叫做 「 三重性 」 的對稱性 。
this particular pattern of charges in eight dimensions is actually part of the most beautiful geometric structure in mathematics .	這種在八度空間中的載荷模式 , 其實是數學中最美麗的幾何結構之一 。
it's a pattern of the largest exceptional lie group , e8 .	這是最大的謊言群 , e8的模式 。
this lie group is a smooth , curved shape with 248 dimensions .	這個謊言組是一個光滑的曲線形狀有248維度
each point in this pattern corresponds to a symmetry of this very complex and beautiful shape .	圖案中的每一點都與這個非常複雜且美麗的形狀對稱有關 。
one small part of this e8 shape can be used to describe the curved spacetime of einstein's general relativity , explaining gravity .	e8的一小部份可以用來描述愛因斯坦廣義相對論的扭曲時間解釋重力
together with quantum mechanics , the geometry of this shape could describe everything about how the universe works at the tiniest scales .	加上量子力學 , 這個形狀的幾何學能夠描述宇宙如何在最微小的尺度下運作的一切 。
the pattern of this shape living in eightdimensional charge space is exquisitely beautiful , and it summarizes thousands of possible interactions between these elementary particles , each of which is just a facet of this complicated shape .	這種形狀生活在八度載荷空間中是多麼美麗的 , 總結成千上萬個基本粒子間的相互作用 , 每一個都只是這個複雜的形狀的一小部份 。
as we spin it , we can see many of the other intricate patterns contained in this one .	當我們旋轉它時 , 我們可以看到其中的許多錯綜複雜的圖案 。
and with a particular rotation , we can look down through this pattern in eight dimensions along a symmetry axis and see all the particles at once .	有了特定的旋轉 , 我們可以在八度空間中沿著一個對稱軸來觀察這個圖案 , 同時看到所有粒子 。
it's a very beautiful object , and as with any unification , we can see some holes where new particles are required by this pattern .	這是個非常美麗的物體 , 如同任何統一一樣 , 我們可以看到一些孔 , 在這裡 , 新的粒子被這個圖案所需要 。
there are 20 gaps where new particles should be , two of which have been filled by the patisalam particles .	這裡有20個空缺 , 新粒子應該有 , 其中兩個已經被帕達姆粒子所填補 。
from their location in this pattern , we know that these new particles should be scalar fields like the higgs particle , but have color charge and interact with the strong force .	從圖案的位置 , 我們知道這些新粒子應該是極小的領域 , 像是希格斯粒子 , 但它們有色荷 , 和強力相互作用 。
filling in these new particles completes this pattern , giving us the full e8 .	在這些新粒子中填補了這個圖案 , 讓我們得到完整的e8 。
this e8 pattern has very deep mathematical roots .	這個e8圖案有很深的數學根源 。
it's considered by many to be the most beautiful structure in mathematics .	很多人認為它是數學界最美麗的結構 。
it's a fantastic prospect that this object of great mathematical beauty could describe the truth of particle interactions at the smallest scales imaginable .	這是個很棒的觀點 , 這個偉大的數學美的物體能夠描述在最小的尺度下粒子相互作用的真相 。
and this idea that nature is described by mathematics is not at all new .	這種被數學所描述的大自然完全不是新的想法 。
in 1623 , galileo wrote this: " nature's grand book , which stands continually open to our gaze , is written in the language of mathematics .	1623年 , 伽利略寫道: 「 大自然的偉大書 , 一直開放給我們的凝視 , 都是用數學的語言寫的 。
its characters are triangles , circles and other geometrical figures , without which it is humanly impossible to understand a single word of it ; without these , one is wandering around in a dark labyrinth . "	它的角色是三角形、圓形 , 及其他幾何形狀 , 沒有這些幾何圖形 , 人類無法理解它的單一單詞 ; 沒有這些 , 人類在黑暗的迷宮中四處遊蕩 。 」
i believe this to be true , and i've tried to follow galileo's guidance in describing the mathematics of particle physics using only triangles , circles and other geometrical figures .	我相信這是真的 , 我試著用伽利略的指導來描述粒子物理學的數學 , 只用三角形、圓形和其他幾何形狀來描述 。
of course , when other physicists and i actually work on this stuff , the mathematics can resemble a dark labyrinth .	當然 , 當其他的物理學家和我實際在研究這些東西時 , 數學和黑暗迷宮的相似 。
but it's reassuring that at the heart of this mathematics is pure , beautiful geometry .	但確保在這個數學的核心是純粹美麗的幾何學 。
joined with quantum mechanics , this mathematics describes our universe as a growing e8 coral , with particles interacting at every location in all possible ways according to a beautiful pattern .	加入了量子力學 , 數學把我們的宇宙描述成一個正在生長的e8珊瑚 , 粒子在各個位置相互作用 , 根據美麗的圖案 。
and as more of the pattern comes into view using new machines like the large hadron collider , we may be able to see whether nature uses this e8 pattern or a different one .	隨著使用新機器的圖案越來越多 , 例如大型強子對撞機 , 我們或許可以觀察大自然是否使用這種e8圖案 , 或不一樣的圖案 。
this process of discovery is a wonderful adventure to be involved in .	這個發現的過程是一個美好的探險 , 能夠參與其中 。
if the lhc finds particles that fit this e8 pattern , that will be very , very cool .	如果lhc找到符合e8圖案的粒子 , 那就非常非常酷 。
if the lhc finds new particles , but they don't fit this pattern well , that will be very interesting , but bad for this e8 theory .	如果lhc找到新的粒子 , 但不符合這個圖案 , 那會非常有趣 , 但對e8理論不好 。
and , of course , bad for me personally .	當然 , 對我來說 , 不好過 。
now how bad would that be ?	那會多糟呢 ?
well , pretty bad .	嗯 , 還蠻糟的 。
but predicting how nature works is a very risky game .	但 , 預測大自然如何運作是個非常危險的遊戲 。
this theory and others like it are long shots .	這個理論和其他類似的理論都是很長的景象 。
one does a lot of hard work knowing that most of these ideas probably won't end up being true about nature .	一個人做了很多努力 , 知道大部份這些想法可能最後不會成為真正的大自然 。
that's what doing theoretical physics is like: there are a lot of wipeouts .	理論物理就是這樣子的:有很多的無線電 。
in this regard , new physics theories are a lot like startup companies .	在這方面 , 新的物理理論就像新創公司一樣 。
as with any large investment , it can be emotionally difficult to abandon a line of research when it isn't working out .	如同任何大型投資一樣 , 在不成功的情況下 , 要拋棄這一系列研究是很困難的 。
but in science , if something isn't working , you have to toss it out and try something else .	但在科學上 , 如果沒有用 , 你就得拋棄它 , 嘗試別的 。
now , the only way to maintain sanity and achieve happiness in the midst of this uncertainty is to keep balance and perspective in life .	要維持理智和成就幸福的唯一方法 , 在不確定的範圍內要保持生命的平衡和觀點 。
i've tried the best i can to live a balanced life .	我盡了最大的努力過著一個平衡的生活 。
i try to balance my life equally between physics , love and surfing my own three charge directions .	我試著平衡我的生命在物理、愛和衝浪中平衡我的三個載荷方向
this way , even if the physics i work on comes to nothing , i still know i've lived a good life .	這樣一來 , 即使我研究的物理學一無所有 , 我仍然知道我已經過了好人生 。
and i try to live in beautiful places .	我試著住在美麗的地方 。
for most of the past ten years i've lived on the island of maui , a very beautiful place .	過去十年 , 我大部份時間都住在毛伊島 , 一個非常美麗的地方 。
now it's one of the greatest mysteries in the universe to my parents how i managed to survive all that time without engaging in anything resembling fulltime employment .	現在 , 這是我父母最大的謎之一 , 我如何在沒有任何類似全職工作的情況下活下來 。
i'm going to let you in on that secret .	我要告訴你們這個秘密 。
this was a view from my home office on maui .	這是從我在毛伊的家中辦公室看的景象 。
and you may have noticed that these beautiful views are similar , but in slightly different places .	你們可能已經注意到 , 這些美麗的景色相似 , 但在稍微不同的地方 。
that's because this used to be my home and office on maui .	那是因為這曾經是我在毛伊島的家和辦公室 。
i've chosen a very unusual life .	我選擇了非常不尋常的人生 。
but not worrying about rent allowed me to spend my time doing what i love .	但不用擔心房租讓我花時間做我喜歡的事
living a nomadic existence has been hard at times , but it's allowed me to live in beautiful places and keep a balance in my life that i've been happy with .	有時活著流浪的存在已經很艱苦了 , 但它讓我能住在美麗的地方 , 保持我一生中幸福的平衡 。
it allows me to spend a lot of my time hanging out with hyperintelligent coral .	它讓我花了很多時間和超級聰明的珊瑚在一起 。
but i also greatly enjoy the company of hyperintelligent people .	但我也很享受超級聰明的人的陪伴 。
so i'm very happy to have been invited here to ted .	我很高興被邀請來ted 。
chris anderson: i probably understood two percent of that , but i still absolutely loved it . so i'm going to sound dumb .	克里斯•安德森:我大概知道這其中的2% , 但我還是很喜歡 。 所以我要聽起來很蠢 。
your theory of everything garrett lisi: i'm used to coral .	你對每件事的理論:我很習慣珊瑚 。
ca: that's right . the reason it's got a few people at least excited is because , if you're right , it brings gravity and quantum theory together .	克:沒錯 。 少數人至少感到興奮的原因是 , 如果你是對的 , 它會把重力和量子理論結合在一起 。
so are you saying that we should think of the universe , at its heart that the smallest things that there are , are somehow an e8 object of possibility ?	所以 , 你是不是在說 , 我們應該想想宇宙 , 它的核心 , 認為最小的事物 , 是有可能的e8物體 ?
i mean , is there a scale to it , at the smallest scale , or . . . ?	我的意思是 , 在最小的尺度上 , 有沒有一個尺度 ?
gl: well , right now the pattern i showed you that corresponds to what we know about elementary particle physics that already corresponds to a very beautiful shape .	高爾:嗯 , 現在我展示給你們看的圖案圖案 , 與我們所知的基本粒子物理學有關 , 已經有了非常漂亮的圖形 。
and that's the one that i said we knew for certain .	這就是我說過的 , 我們很肯定知道 。
and that shape has remarkable similarities and the way it fits into this e8 pattern could be the rest of the picture .	這種形狀有著很驚人的相似性 , 其適合於e8圖案的方式 , 可能是其餘的圖片 。
and these patterns of points that i've shown for you actually represent symmetries of this highdimensional object that would be warping and moving and dancing over the space time that we experience .	我給各位看的這些圖案 , 實際上代表了這個高維物體的對稱性 , 會在我們經歷的時空中扭曲、移動、跳舞 。
and that would be what explains all these elementary particles that we see .	這就解釋了我們看到的所有基本粒子 。
ca: but a string theorist , as i understand it , explains electrons in terms of much smaller strings vibrating i know you don't like string theory vibrating inside it .	克:但弦理論學家 , 如我所知 , 用更小的弦震動來解釋電子 , 我知道你不喜歡弦理論在裡面震動 。
how should we think of an electron in relation to e8 ?	我們應該如何看待e8和e8之間的電子 ?
gl: no , it would be one of the symmetries of this e8 shape .	高爾:不 , 它會是這個e8形狀的對稱性之一 。
so what's happening is , as the shape is moving over spacetime , it's twisting . and the direction it's twisting as it moves is what particle we see . so it would be ca: the size of the e8 shape , how does that relate to the electron ?	所以 , 當這個形狀在時空中移動時 , 它扭曲了方向 。 當它移動時 , 它扭曲的方向就是我們看到的粒子的尺寸 。 克:e8的大小 , 跟電子有何關係 ?
i kind of feel like i need that for my picture .	我覺得我需要這張照片 。
is it bigger ? is it smaller ?	它會變大嗎 ? 會變小嗎 ?
gl: well , as far as we know electrons are point particles , so this would be going down to the smallest possible scales .	高爾:據我們所知 , 電子是點粒子 , 所以它會向下到最小的可能尺度 。
so the way these things are explained in quantum field theory is , all possibilities are expanding and developing at once .	所以 , 在量子場理論中 , 這些東西被解釋的方式是 , 所有的可能性同時擴張和發展 。
and this is why i use the analogy to coral .	這就是為什麼我用珊瑚的比喻 。
and in this way , the way that e8 comes in is it will be as a shape that's attached at each point in spacetime .	這樣一來 , e8的來源方式就是 , 在時空中每一點 , 都將是一個固定在時空的形狀 。
and , as i said , the way the shape twists the directional along which way the shape is twisting as it moves over this curved surface is what the elementary particles are , themselves .	正如我所說 , 形狀會改變方向 , 形狀在移動這個曲線表面時 , 扭曲的方向是基本粒子本身 。
so through quantum field theory , they manifest themselves as points and interact that way .	通過量子場理論 , 他們將自己視為點和互動的點 。
i don't know if i'll be able to make this any clearer .	我不知道我能不能讓它更清楚 。
ca: it doesn't really matter .	克:這不重要 。
it's evoking a kind of sense of wonder , and i certainly want to understand more of this .	它喚起了一種奇妙的感覺 , 我肯定想要更了解這一點 。
but thank you so much for coming . that was absolutely fascinating .	但 , 非常謝謝你來到這邊 。 這實在太吸引人了 。
the legendary chimpanzee researcher jane goodall talks about tacare and her other community projects , which help people in booming african towns live sidebyside with threatened animals .	傳奇中的黑猩猩研究員珍.古德爾談到tacare和其它的社區計畫 , 協助非洲興起的小鎮 , 帶有威脅的動物住在旁邊 。
africa , animals , biodiversity , environment , global issues , pollution , primates , science	非洲、動物、生物多樣性、環境、全球議題、污染、靈長類動物、科學 。
jane goodall helps humans and animals live together	珍古德能協助人類和動物一起生活 。
good afternoon , good evening , whatever .	午安 , 晚安 , 等等 。
we can go , jambo , guten abend , bonsoir , but we can also ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh .	我們可以去jmbo , jambo , jambo , abend , bonsoir , 但是我們也可以--oooh , oooh , oooh , oooh , oooh , ooooh , ooooh 。
that is the call that chimpanzees make before they go to sleep in the evening .	這是黑猩猩在晚上去睡覺前的叫聲 。
you hear it going from one side of the valley to the other , from one group of nests to the next .	你聽到的是從山谷的一端傳到另一端 , 從一群巢穴到下一群 。
and i want to pick up with my talk this evening from where zeray left off yesterday .	今天晚上 , 我想從昨天 , zeray昨天的演講中挑選出這場演說 。
he was talking about this amazing , threeyearold australopithecine child , selam .	他談到這個了不起的 , 三歲小孩 , 三歲的澳洲血統兒童 , 塞拉姆 。
and we've also been hearing about the history , the family tree , of mankind through dna genetic profiling .	我們也聽過人類基因圖譜的歷史、家族樹、人類基因圖譜 。
and it was a paleontologist , the late louis leakey , who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees .	是一個古生物學家 , 已故的路易斯•李奇 , 他讓我踏上研究黑猩猩的路徑 。
and it was pretty extraordinary , way back then .	在當時 , 這真的很不尋常 。
it's kind of commonplace now , but his argument was because he'd been searching for the fossilized remains of early humans in africa .	現在很普遍 , 但他的論點是 , 因為他一直在尋找非洲早期人類的化石遺骸 。
and you can tell an awful lot about what those beings looked like from the fossils , from the shape of the muscle attachments , something about the way they lived from the various artifacts found with them .	你可以從化石得知不少這些生物的長相從化石 , 從肌肉的外觀看出他們從各種手工藝品中發現的
but what about how they behaved ? that's what he wanted to know .	但它們的行為呢 ? 這是他想要知道的 。
and of course , behavior doesn't fossilize .	當然 , 行為不會化石 。
he argued and it's now a fairly common theory that if we found behavior patterns similar or the same in our closest living relatives , the great apes , and humans today , then maybe those behaviors were present in the apelike , humanlike ancestor some seven million years ago .	他主張 , 現在是一個相當普遍的理論如果我們在現存的近親、大猩猩和人類之間找到相似的行為模式也許這些行為在七百萬年前出現在人猿的祖先身上
and therefore , perhaps we had brought those characteristics with us from that ancient , ancient past .	因此 , 也許我們把這些特質從古代、古老的過去帶給我們 。
well , if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution , you very often find people speculating about how early humans may have behaved , based on the behavior of chimpanzees .	如果你看看今天的教科書 , 要處理人類的進化 , 你常常會發現人們在推測早期人類的行為 , 根據黑猩猩的行為來推測人類的行為 。
they are more like us than any other living creature , and we've heard about that during this ted conference .	牠們比其他生物更像我們 , 在這場ted會議中 , 我們也聽過 。
so it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzees are so like us , in certain aspects of their behavior .	所以 , 至於我要說的 , 是關於黑猩猩在某些特定行為方面 , 會如此相似 。
every chimpanzee has his or her own personality .	每一隻黑猩猩都有自己的個性 。
of course , i gave them names . they can live to be 60 years or more , although we think most of them probably don't make it to 60 in the wild .	當然 , 我給他們取名字 。 他們可以活到60歲以上 , 雖然我們認為大部分的人在野外大概不會活到60歲 。
mr . wurzel . the female has her first baby when she's 11 or 12 .	urzel先生 。 雌性先生在十一或十二歲時生了第一個寶寶 。
thereafter , she has one baby only every five or six years , a long period of childhood dependency when the child is nursing , sleeping with the mother at night , and riding on her back .	在那裡 , 她每五到六年就有一個寶寶 , 一個長時間的童年依賴期 , 當孩子在哺乳期時 , 晚上和媽媽睡覺 , 騎在背上 。
and we believe that this long period of childhood is important for chimpanzees , just as it is for us , in relation to learning .	我們相信這段長時間的童年對黑猩猩來說是很重要的 , 就像對我們而言 , 與學習有關 。
as the brain becomes ever more complex during evolution in different forms of animals , so we find that learning plays an ever more important role in an individual's life history .	當大腦在不同形式的動物進化過程中變得更複雜時 , 所以我們發現 , 學習在個體的生命歷史中扮演著更重要的角色 。
and young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do .	年輕的黑猩猩花了很多時間觀察長輩的行為 。
we know now that they're capable of imitating behaviors that they see .	我們現在知道他們有能力模仿他們看到的行為 。
and we believe that it's in this way that the different toolusing behaviors that have now been seen in all the different chimpanzee populations studied in africa how these are passed from one generation to the next , through observation , imitation and practice , so that we can describe these toolusing behaviors as primitive culture .	我們相信 , 以這種方式現在在所有不同黑猩猩的族群中 , 所看到的不同的誘人行為 , 透過觀察、模仿 , 和實踐 , 研究這些行為是如何從一個世代傳到下一個世代 , 藉由觀察、模仿和實踐 , 來描述這些使用工具的行為 , 作為原始文化 。
chimpanzees don't have a spoken language . we've talked about that .	黑猩猩沒有口語 。 我們已經談過了 。
they do have a very rich repertoire of postures and gestures , many of which are similar , or even identical , to ours and formed in the same context . greeting chimpanzees embracing .	牠們的確有非常豐富的姿勢和姿勢 , 當中有許多和我們很相似 , 甚至和我們相同 , 在相同的情境下 , 和我們相似的黑猩猩相擁 。
they also kiss , hold hands , pat one another on the back .	牠們也會親吻 , 握手 , 拍對方的背 。
and they swagger and they throw rocks .	牠們會大量移動 , 牠們會扔石頭 。
in chimpanzee society , we find many , many examples of compassion , precursors to love and true altruism .	在黑猩猩的社會中 , 我們發現許多許多許多有同情心的例子 , 包含愛和真正的利他主義 。
unfortunately , they , like us , have a dark side to their nature .	不幸的是 , 他們和我們一樣 , 對於他們的天性有很黑暗的一面 。
they're capable of extreme brutality , even a kind of primitive war .	他們有極端殘酷的能力 , 甚至一種原始的戰爭 。
and these really aggressive behaviors , for the most part , are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group .	而這些極具攻擊性的行為 , 大部分都是針對鄰近社會群體的對象 。
they are very territorially aggressive .	他們非常地激進 。
chimpanzees , i believe , more than any other living creature , have helped us to understand that , after all , there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom .	我相信 , 黑猩猩比任何其他生物都更能了解 , 畢竟 , 人類和動物王國之間並沒有明顯的界線 。
it's a very blurry line , and it's getting more blurry all the time as we make even more observations .	這是一條非常模糊的線 , 每當我們做更多的觀察時 , 它就會變得更加模糊 。
the study that i began in 1960 is still continuing to this day .	我在1960年開始的研究至今仍然持續著
and these chimpanzees , living their complex social lives in the wild , have helped more than anything else to make us realize we are part of , and not separated from , the amazing animals with whom we share the planet .	這些黑猩猩在野外生活著複雜的社交生活 , 使我們瞭解到我們是其中的一員 , 和我們共享這個星球的動物 。
so it's pretty sad to find that chimpanzees , like so many other creatures around the world , are losing their habitats .	所以很讓人感傷的是 , 發現像世界上許多其他生物的黑猩猩 , 正在失去牠們的棲息地 。
this is just one photograph from the air , and it shows you the forested highlands of gombe .	這只是一張從空中拍攝的照片而已 , 它顯示了長達數量的森林高地 。
and it was when i flew over the whole area , about 16 years ago , and realized that outside the park , this forest , which in 1960 had stretched almost unbroken along the eastern shore of lake tanganyika , which is where the tiny , 30squaremile gombe national park lies , that a question came to my mind .	那時我飛越整個地區 , 大約十六年前 , 那時我了解到 , 在這個公園之外 , 在1960年 , 在這片森林之外 , 幾乎沒有破壞 , 沿著坦岡尼卡的東岸 , 那裡有著微小、三十平方形的岡貝國家公園 , 問了我一個問題 。
" how can we even try to save these famous chimpanzees , when the people living around the national park are struggling to survive ? "	「 我們要如何拯救這些知名的黑猩猩 , 住在國家公園附近的居民很難生存 ? 」
more people are living there than the land could possibly support .	那裡的居民比土地還多 。
the numbers increased by refugees pouring in from burundi and over the lake from congo .	難民的數量增加 , 是因為他們從蒲隆地湧入湖中 , 和剛果湖的難民數目增加 。
and very poor people they couldn't afford to buy food from elsewhere .	很窮的人 , 他們無法從其他地方購買食物 。
this led to a program , which we call tacare .	這導致了我們稱之為tacare的計畫 。
it's a very holistic way of improving the lives of the people living in the villages around the park .	這是個非常全面的方式 , 可以改善住在公園附近村落裡的人的生活 。
it started small with 12 villages . it's now in 24 .	它從12個村落開始 , 現在在24年 。
there isn't time to go into it , but it's including things like tree nurseries , methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded , almost desertlike land up in these mountains .	沒有時間介入它 , 但它包括了樹木的護士 , 如今最適合種植作物的方法 , 如今已被退化 , 像沙漠一樣的土地 , 在這些山上 。
ways of controlling , preventing soil erosion .	控制的方式 , 預防土壤侵蝕 。
ways of reclaiming overused farmland , so that within two years they can again be productive .	收回過度濫用的農地的方法 , 這樣在兩年內 , 農地就能夠再有生產力 。
working to help the villagers obtain fresh water from wells .	致力於幫助村民從井裡取得淡水 。
perhaps build some schoolrooms .	也許建造一些學校教室 。
most important of all , i believe , is working with small groups of women , providing them with opportunities for microcredit loans .	最重要的是 , 我相信 , 與一小群女性合作 , 提供她們機會給微型貸款的機會 。
and we've got , as is the case around the world , about 95 percent of all loans returned .	如同世界各地的情況 , 我們有95%的貸款回來 。
empowering women , working with education , providing scholarships for girls so they can finish secondary school , in the clear understanding that , all around the world , as women's education improves , family size drops .	授權給女性 , 與教育合作 , 提供獎學金給女孩 , 讓她們能完成中學 , 清楚地了解到 , 隨著女性的教育改善 , 家庭規模下降 。
we provide information about family planning and about hiv/aids .	我們提供家庭計劃和愛滋病的資訊 。
and as a result of this program , something's happening for conservation .	由於這個計畫 , 對於保育有所貢獻 。
what's happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages , instead of looking on us as a bunch of white people coming to study a whole bunch of monkeys and by the way , many of the staff are now tanzanian but when we began the tacare program , it was a tanzanian team going into the villages .	保育的做法是 , 農夫住在這24個村落裡 , 沒有把我們當成一群白人來研究一群猴子 , 順帶一提 , 許多員工現在現在坦尚尼亞 , 但當我們開始坦尚尼亞計畫時 , 是坦尚尼亞人的團隊進入村落 。
it was a tanzanian team talking to the villagers , asking what they were interested in .	那是一支坦尚尼亞團隊和村民談話 , 問他們感興趣的是什麼 。
were they interested in conservation ? absolutely not .	他們對保育感興趣嗎 ? 絕對不是 。
they were interested in health ; they were interested in education .	他們對健康有興趣 , 他們對教育有興趣 。
and as time went on , and as their situation began to improve , they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation .	隨著時間過去 , 他們的情況開始改善 , 他們開始更加了解保育的重要性 。
they began to understand that as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees , so you've got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides .	他們開始了解 , 當山丘的上層被開採樹木 , 土壤侵蝕和土石流就變得糟糕了 。
today , we are developing what we call the greater gombe ecosystem .	現今 , 我們正在開發一種我們稱為 「 更偉大的gomb生態系統 」 的東西 。
this is an area way outside the national park , stretching out into all these very degraded lands .	這是遠離國家公園的範圍 , 延伸到所有這些非常退化的土地上 。
and as these villages have a better standard of life , they are actually agreeing to put between 10 percent and 20 percent of their land in the highlands aside , so that once again , as the trees grow back , the chimpanzees will have leafy corridors through which they can travel to interact as they must for genetic viability with other remnant groups outside the national park .	當這些村落擁有更好的生活標準時 , 他們實際上同意將百分之十到二十的土地放在高地上 , 所以 , 再一次 , 當樹木長回來時 , 黑猩猩就會有葉子走廊 , 通過這些地方可以在國家公園外交流 , 與其他在國家公園外的殘餘團體做交流 。
so tacare is a success .	坦尚尼亞造林計劃是成功的
we're replicating it in other parts of africa , around other wilderness areas which are faced with extreme population pressure .	我們在非洲的其它地區複製它 , 沿著其它野生的區域 , 面臨極端的人口壓力 。
the problems in africa , however , as we've been discussing for the whole of these first couple of days of ted , are major problems .	然而 , 在非洲的問題 , 正如我們在一開始的ted演講中所討論的 , 都是重大的問題 。
there is a great deal of poverty .	有很大的貧窮問題 。
and when you get large numbers of people living in land that is not that fertile , particularly when you cut down trees , and you leave the soil open to the wind for erosion , as desperate populations cut down more and more trees , so that they can try and grow food for themselves and their families , what's going to happen ? something's got to give .	當你有很大量的人住在陸地上 , 沒有那麼多肥沃 , 尤其是當你砍樹的時候 , 你把土壤打開 , 讓土壤流入侵蝕風層 , 因為絕望的人口減少了越來越多的樹木 , 所以他們可以試著為自己和家人種植食物 , 會發生什麼事 ? 什麼事 ?
and the other problems in not only africa , but the rest of the developing world and , indeed , everywhere what are we doing to our planet ?	除了非洲 , 還有其他的問題 , 還有其他的開發中國家 , 甚至 , 無所不在 , 我們對地球做了什麼 ?
you know , the famous scientist , e . o . wilson said that if every person on this planet attains the standard of living of the average european or american , we need three new planets .	你知道嗎 , 著名的科學家 , e.o.wilson曾說過 , 如果地球上每個人的生活水準都含有歐洲人或美國人的平均生活水準 , 我們需要三個新的行星 。
today , they are saying four . but we don't have them . we've got one .	今天 , 他們說的是四個 。 但是我們沒有他們 , 我們只有一個 。
and what's happened ? i mean , the question here is , here we are , arguably the most intelligent being that's ever walked planet earth , with this extraordinary brain , capable of the kind of technology that is so well illustrated by these ted conferences , and yet we're destroying the only home we have .	發生了什麼事 ? 我的意思是 , 問題是 , 我們在這裡是最聰明的人 , 可以說是最聰明的人 , 可以說是最聰明的人 , 可以說是最聰明的人 , 可以說是最好的科技 , 可以被ted的研討會所使用 , 而我們卻可以摧毀我們唯一的家園 。
the indigenous people around the world , before they made a major decision , used to sit around and ask themselves , " how does this decision affect our people seven generations ahead ? "	世界各地的原住民 , 在他們做出重大決定之前 , 通常會坐下來問自己: 「 這樣的決定如何影響我們前面的七代人 ? 」
today , major decisions and i'm not particularly talking about africa here , but the developed world major decisions involving millions of dollars , and millions of people , are often based on , " how will this affect the next shareholders' meeting ? "	現今 , 重大的決策 , 我並不是特別在談非洲 , 而是世界主要的決策 , 涉及數百萬美元 , 數百萬人 , 通常都是基於: 「 這會如何影響下一個股東的會議 ? 」
and these decisions affect africa .	這些決定會影響非洲 。
as i began traveling around africa talking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests , i realized more and more how so many of africa's problems could be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation .	當我開始在非洲各地旅行時 , 談到黑猩猩所面臨的問題 , 談到黑猩猩和牠們消失的森林所面臨的問題 , 我了解到越來越多非洲的問題 , 可能是存在於先前殖民地剝削的大門 。
so i began traveling outside africa , talking in europe , talking in the united states , going to asia .	所以我開始在非洲外旅行 , 在歐洲演講 , 在美國和亞洲談話 。
and everywhere there were these terrible problems .	到處都有可怕的問題 。
and you know the kind i'm talking about . i'm talking about pollution .	各位都知道我在說什麼 , 我在說的是污染 。
the air that we breathe that often poisons us .	我們呼吸的空氣通常會毒害我們 。
the earth is poisoning our foods .	地球正在毒害我們的食物 。
the water water is perhaps one of the most crucial issues that we're going to face in this century and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural , industrial and household chemicals that still are being sprayed around the world , seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience .	水水可能是本世紀我們要面對的最關鍵的議題之一 , 不論在哪裡 , 水都被污染了 , 被農業、工業和家庭用化學物所污染 , 仍然在世界各地被噴殺 , 似乎無法從經驗中獲取利 。
the mangroves are being cut down ; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse .	紅樹林被砍倒 ; 海嘯的影響更加嚴重 。
we've talked about the soil erosion .	我們已經談過土壤侵蝕 。
we have the reckless burning of fossil fuels along with other greenhouse gasses , so called , leading to climate change .	我們有無數燃燒的石化燃料 , 還有其他溫室氣體 , 造成氣候變遷 。
finally , all around the world , people have begun to believe that there is something going on very wrong with our climate .	終於 , 全世界的人開始相信我們的氣候有問題 。
all around the world climates are mixed up .	全世界的氣候都混合在一起 。
and it's the poor people who are affected worse .	更糟糕的是 , 窮人受到影響 。
it's africa that already is affected .	非洲早已受到影響 。
in many parts of subsaharan africa , the droughts are so much worse .	在撒哈拉以南非洲的許多地區 , 乾旱更加嚴重 。
and when the rain does come , it so often leads to flooding and added distress , and the cycle of poverty and hunger and disease .	當雨來的時候 , 會造成大量的洪水和更多的痛苦 , 還有貧窮、飢餓和疾病的惡性循環 。
and the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support , who are too poor to buy food , who can't move away because the whole land is degraded .	住在一個地區的人數 , 土地無法支援 , 貧窮到無法購買食物 , 無法搬離 , 因為整片土地都退化了 。
and so you get desertification creeping , creeping , creeping as the last of the trees are cut down .	因此 , 隨著最後一棵樹被砍倒 , 整個沙漠化的擴張 , 逐漸蔓延 。
and this kind of thing is not just in africa . it's all over the world .	這種東西不只在非洲 , 全世界都一樣 。
so it wasn't surprising to me that as i was traveling around the world i met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope .	所以 , 不意外的是 , 當我在世界各地旅行時 , 我遇到許多似乎失去希望的年輕人 。
we seem to have lost wisdom , the wisdom of the indigenous people .	我們似乎失去了智慧 , 失去了原住民的智慧 。
i asked a question . " why ? "	我問了一個問題: 「 為什麼 ? 」
well , do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain , the kind of brain that the ted technologies exemplify , and the human heart ? talking about it in the nonscientific term , in terms of love and compassion . is there some disconnect ?	嗯 , 你認為在這聰明的大腦之間 , 可能有某種隔閡 , 那種在ted科技所展示的大腦 , 和人類的心一樣 ? 用非科學的詞語來說 , 愛和同情心 , 是否有某種隔閡 ?
and these young people , when i talk to them , basically they were either depressed or apathetic , or bitter and angry . and they said more or less the same thing , " we feel this way because we feel you've compromised our future and there's nothing we can do about it . "	而這些年輕人 , 當我和他們談話時 , 基本上他們是沮喪的、冷漠的、痛苦的 , 或生氣的 。 他們說的或多或少是一樣的 , 「 我們會有這種感覺 , 因為我們覺得你已經打算了我們的未來 , 而我們對未來卻束手無策 。 」
we have compromised their future .	我們已經瓦解了他們的未來 。
i've got three little grandchildren , and every time i look at them and i think how we've harmed this beautiful planet since i was their age , i feel this desperation .	我有三個小孫子 , 每當我看著他們時 , 每當我在他們年紀以來 , 我都會想 , 我們如何傷害這個美麗的星球 , 我就會感到絕望 。
and that led to this program we call roots and shoots , which began right here in tanzania and has now spread to 97 countries around the world .	這也導致了這個計畫 , 我們稱之為根與芽 , 這個計畫始於坦尚尼亞 , 目前已傳播到全球97個國家 。
it's symbolic . roots make a firm foundation .	它具有象徵性的意義 。 根構了一個堅定的基礎 。
shoots seem tiny ; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall .	芽看起來似乎很小 ; 要抵達太陽 , 它們能突破磚牆 。
see the brick wall as all these problems we've inflicted on the planet , environmental and social . it's a message of hope .	把磚牆視為地球上所遭遇到的問題、環境和社會問題、希望的訊息 。
hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things .	全世界有數十萬名年輕人能夠突破並為所有生物創造一個更美好的世界 。
the most important message of roots and shoots: every single one of us makes a difference , every single day .	根與芽的最重要訊息是:我們每一個人每天都在做改變 。
we have a choice . every one of us in this room , we have a choice as to what kind of difference we want to make .	我們有一個選擇 。 在這房間裡的每一個人 , 我們都有一個選擇 , 來決定我們想要做什麼樣的不同 。
the very poor have no choice . it's up to us to change things so that the poor have choice as well .	窮人沒有選擇權 , 要靠我們改變現狀 , 窮人也有選擇權 。
the roots and shoots groups all choose three projects .	樹根與芽的小組都選了三個計畫 。
it depends on how old they are , and which country , whether they're in a city or rural , as to what kinds of projects .	這取決於他們年齡多大 , 哪個國家 , 不論他們是否在城市或鄉下 , 哪個國家都一樣 。
but basically , we have programs now from preschool right through university , with more and more adults starting their own roots and shoots groups .	但基本上 , 我們現在有從幼兒園到大學的計劃 , 越來越多的成人開始著手進行他們自己的根部和芽 。
and every group chooses , between them , three different kinds of project to make this a better world , recognizing that all these different problems are interconnected and impinge on each other .	每個團體在他們之間做選擇 , 做三個不同的專案 , 讓這個更美好的世界 , 認識到這些不同的問題彼此有所連結 , 並互相影響 。
so one of their projects will be to help their own human community .	所以 , 他們的其中一項計畫是要協助他們自己的人類社區 。
and then , if they're able , they may raise money to help communities in other parts of the world .	如果他們能夠 , 他們可能會募集資金來幫助世界其他地區的社區 。
one of their projects will be to help animals not just wildlife , domestic animals as well .	他們的項目之一是幫助動物不只是野生動物 , 家庭動物也一樣 。
and one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share .	他們的專案之一是幫助我們共享的環境 。
and woven throughout all of this is a message of learning to live in peace and harmony within ourselves , in our families , in our communities , between nations , between cultures , between religions and between us and the natural world .	撰寫這一切 , 是一種學習如何在自己的內在和平和和和諧中生活的訊息 , 在我們的家庭中、在我們的家庭中、在我們的社區中、在國際間、文化之間、宗教間 , 和自然界之間 。
we need the natural world . we cannot go on destroying it at the rate we are .	我們需要自然界 。 我們不能再以我們現在的速度破壞它 。
we not do have more than this one planet .	我們沒有超過這個星球 。
just picking one or two of the projects right here in africa that the roots and shoots groups are doing , one or two projects only in tanzania , in uganda , kenya , south africa , congobrazzaville , sierra leone , cameroon and other groups . and as i say , it's in 97 countries around the world .	只是在非洲挑選一兩項計畫 , 計畫的根與芽集團正在進行 , 一兩項專案只在坦尚尼亞、烏干達、肯亞、南非、剛果巴西利亞、獅子山共和國、喀麥隆和其他團體 。 如我所說的 , 目前在世界上的九十七個國家 。
of course , they're planting trees . they're growing organic vegetables .	當然 , 他們在種樹 , 他們在種植有機蔬菜 。
they're working in the refugee camps , with chickens and selling the eggs for a little amount of money , or just using them to feed their families , and feeling a sense of pride and empowerment , because they're no longer helpless and depending on others with their vegetables and their chickens .	他們在難民營工作 , 帶著雞賣蛋 , 賣了一點點錢 , 或用這些錢來餵飽他們的家人 , 讓他們感到自豪和自主感 , 因為他們不再無助 , 不再依靠別人對他們有蔬菜和雞隻的食物 。
it's being used in uganda to give some psychological help to exchild soldiers .	它被用在烏干達 , 造成一些精神上的幫助 , 讓士兵能得到一些心理上的幫助 。
doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves .	像這樣的專案計畫是把他們自己帶出去 。
once again , they're useful members of society .	再一次 , 他們是有用的社會成員 。
we have this program in prisons as well .	我們在監獄也有這個計畫 。
so , there's no time for more roots and shoots now .	所以 , 現在沒有更多的根和芽了 。
but oh , they're also working on hiv/aids .	但 , 喔 , 他們也在研究愛滋病 。
that's a very important component of roots and shoots , with older kids talking to younger ones .	這是根與芽的重要要素 , 年長的孩子和年長的孩子對話 。
and unwanted pregnancies and things like that , which young people listen to better from other youth , rather than adults .	不想要懷孕 , 諸如此類的 , 年輕人會傾聽其他年輕人的心聲 , 而不是成人 。
hope . that's the question i get asked as i'm going around the world: " jane , you've seen so many terrible things , you've seen your chimpanzees decrease in number from about one million , at the turn of the century , to no more than 150 , 000 now , and the same with so many other animals .	希望 。 我在世界各地被問到這個問題: 「 珍 , 你見過這麼多可怕的事 , 你見過你的黑猩猩 , 從一百萬年前開始 , 減少了十五萬隻 , 到現在不超過十五萬隻 , 和許多其他動物一樣 。
forests disappearing , deserts where once there was forest .	森林消失了 , 曾經有森林的沙漠也消失了 。
do you really have hope ? " well , yes .	你真的有希望嗎 ? 」 嗯 , 是的 。
you can't come to a conference like ted and not have hope , can you ?	你不能來參加ted這樣的會議 , 沒有希望 , 可以嗎 ?
and of course , there's hope . one is this amazing human brain .	當然 , 還有希望 。 其中之一是驚人的人類大腦 。
and i mean , think of the technologies .	想想這些科技 ,
and i've just been so thrilled , finally , to come to people talking about compost latrines .	我很興奮 , 最後 , 能來談談堆肥式的廁所 。
it's one of my hobbyhorses .	這是我的嗜好之一 。
we just flush all this water down the lavatory , it's terrible .	我們只是把所有的水往下沖 , 水都很糟 ,
and then talking about renewable energy desperately important .	接著 , 談到再生能源極其重要 。
do we care about the planet for our children ?	我們在乎孩子的星球嗎 ?
how many of us have children or grandchildren , nieces , nephews ?	有多少人有小孩或孫子、姪子、姪子 ?
do we care about their future ?	我們在乎他們的未來嗎 ?
and if we care about their future , we , as the elite around the world , we can do something about it . we can make choices as to how we live each day .	如果我們在乎他們的未來 , 我們 , 身為世界上精英份子 , 我們可以做點什麼 。 我們可以做一些選擇 , 來做我們每天的生活 。
what we buy . what we wear .	我們買什麼 , 穿什麼 。
and choose to make these choices with the question , how will this affect the environment around me ?	選擇用問題來做這些選擇 , 這會如何影響我周圍的環境 ?
how will it affect the life of my child when he or she grows up ?	當他或她長大後 , 它會如何影響我的孩子的生活 ?
or my grandchild , or whatever it is .	或我的孫子 , 或其它的 。
so the human brain , coupled with the human heart , and we join hands around the world .	所以 , 人類的大腦 , 和人類的心臟連結在一起 , 我們和世界各地的人類連結在一起 。
and that's what ted is helping so well with , and google who help us , and esri are helping us with mapping in gombe national park .	而這正是ted在幫助我們 , google也在幫助我們 , esri也在幫我們繪製國家公園的地圖 。
all of these technologies we can use .	所有我們能使用的科技 。
now let's link them , and it's beginning to happen , isn't it ?	現在讓我們把它們連結起來 , 它也開始發生了 , 不是嗎 ?
you've heard about it this afternoon . it's beginning to happen .	你們今天下午聽說過 , 即將開始發生 。
this change , this change . to see change that we must have if we care about the future .	這種改變 , 這種改變 。 如果我們關心未來 , 我們必須看到改變 。
and the next reason for hope nature is amazingly resilient .	下一個原因 , 希望大自然有驚人的韌性 。
you can take an area that's absolutely destroyed , with time and perhaps some help it can regenerate .	你可以把這塊完全被摧毀的區域 , 用時間 , 甚至有些幫助它再生 。
and an example is the tacare program .	例如 , 塔克爾計畫 。
i told you , where a seemingly dead tree stump if you stop hacking them for firewood , which you don't need to because you have wood lots , then in five years you can have a 30foot tree .	我告訴各位 , 看似已經死了的樹木 , 如果你停止砍伐它們 , 就不用了 , 因為你有木頭 , 五年內你就會有一棵三十英呎的樹 。
and animals , almost on the brink of extinction , can be given a second chance . that's my next book .	而動物 , 幾乎快要絕種的邊緣 , 可以再次機會 , 這是我的下一本書 。
it's inspiring . and it brings me to my last category of hope , and we've heard about this so much in the last two days: this indomitable human spirit . this determination of people , the resilience of the human spirit , so that people who you would think would be battered by poverty , or disease , or whatever , can pull themselves up out of it , sometimes with a helping hand , and take their part in society , and take their part in changing the world .	這是很鼓舞人心的 。 這也為我帶來了最後一類的希望 , 在過去的兩天中 , 我們聽到了這麼多這樣的事:不屈不饒的人類精神 。 人們堅韌的決心 , 人類的決心 , 人類的決心 , 人類的決心 , 讓那些你認為會被貧窮或疾病所打擊的人 , 不論如何 , 都可以把他們自己拉出來 , 用手幫助他們 , 把他們帶到社會中 , 帶到他們改變的世界 。
and just to think of one or two people out of africa who are just really inspiring .	想想那些對非洲非常鼓舞人心的非洲人 ,
we could make a very long list , but obviously nelson mandela , emerging from 17 years of hard physical labor , 23 years of imprisonment , with this amazing ability to forgive , so that he could lead his nation out the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath .	我們可以列出很長的清單 , 但很明顯的 , 納爾遜•曼德拉 , 來自17年的辛苦勞工 , 23年的監禁 , 帶著這不可思議的原諒能力 , 讓他能夠領導他的國家擺脫種族隔離的邪惡政權 , 沒有血戰 。
ken sarowiwa , in nigeria , who took on the giant oil companies , and although people around the world tried their best , was executed .	在奈及利亞 , 肯薩羅瓦在巨型石油公司工作 , 儘管全世界的人盡力而為 , 卻被處決了 。
people like this are so inspirational .	像這樣的人很鼓舞人心 。
people like this are the role models we need for young africans .	像這樣的人 , 是我們需要年輕非洲人的典範 。
and we need some environmental role models as well , and i've been hearing some of them today .	我們也需要一些環境的榜樣 , 我今天也聽到了其中一些 。
so i'm really grateful for this opportunity to share this message again , with everyone at ted .	我很感激這個機會再次與ted的每個人分享這個訊息 。
and i hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things , especially the roots and shoots program .	我希望我們當中有些人可以聚在一起討論這些事 , 特別是根與芽的計畫 。
and just a last word on that the young woman who's running this entire conference center , i met her today .	最後一個消息是 , 一位經營這整個會議的年輕女性 , 我今天遇到她 。
she came up so excited , with her certificate . she was [in] roots and shoots .	她非常興奮 , 帶著證書 , 她是根與芽的成員 。
she was in the leadership in dar es salaam .	她在達爾斯薩拉姆的領導地位 。
she said it's helped her to do what she's doing .	她說這幫助她做她在做的事 。
and it was very , very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people , when they are empowered , given the opportunity to take action , to make the world a better place , truly are our hope for tomorrow .	對我來說 , 非常振奮人心的見到她 , 看一個例子 , 關於年輕人如何被賦權、有機會採取行動 , 讓世界變得更美好 , 真正成為我們對未來的希望 。
artist dianna cohen shares some tough truths about plastic pollution in the ocean and in our lives and some thoughts on how to free ourselves from the plastic gyre .	藝術家戴安娜•柯恩 , 對於海洋及生活中的塑膠污染 , 還有一些想法 , 如何從塑膠漩渦中解放自己 。
consumerism , global issues , green , mission blue , oceans , plastic	消費者主義、全球議題、綠色、使命藍、海洋、塑膠等 。
dianna cohen: tough truths about plastic pollution	黛安娜.柯恩:關於塑膠污染的棘手真相 。
i'm a visual artist , and i'm also one of the cofounders of the plastic pollution coalition .	我是個視覺藝術家 , 我也是塑膠污染聯盟的共同創辦人之一 。
i've been working with plastic bags , which i cut up and sew back together as my primary material for my artwork for the last 20 years .	我和塑膠袋一起工作 , 過去二十年 , 我把這些塑膠袋剪下來 , 再縫合起來 , 做成我的藝術作品的主要材料 。
i turn them into two and threedimensional pieces and sculptures and installations .	我將它們分為二維和三維的部分 , 雕塑和裝置 。
upon working with the plastic , after about the first eight years , some of my work started to fissure and break down into smaller little bits of plastic .	大約八年後 , 我和塑膠一起工作 , 我有些作品開始裂縫 , 分解成更小的塑膠 。
and i thought , " great .	我心想: 「 太棒了 。
it's ephemeral just like us . "	跟我們一樣 , 是短暫的 。 」
upon educating myself a little further about plastics , i actually realized this was a bad thing .	一旦我更進一步地去了解塑膠 , 我就意識到這是一件壞事 。
it's a bad thing that plastic breaks down into smaller little bits , because it's always still plastic .	這是件壞事 , 塑膠會分解成小片段 , 因為它永遠是塑膠 。
and what we're finding is that a lot of it is in the marine environment .	我們發現 , 在海洋環境中 , 很多都是這樣的 。
i then , in the last few years , learned about the pacific garbage patch and the gyre .	然後 , 在過去幾年裡 , 我學到了太平洋的垃圾場和垃圾場 。
and my initial reaction and i think this is a lot of people's first reaction to learning about it is , " oh my god !	我最初的反應是很多人的第一個反應是: 「 天啊 !
we've got to go out there and clean this thing up . "	我們得走出去把這東西清乾淨 。 」
so i actually developed a proposal to go out with a cargo ship and two decommissioned fishing trawlers , a crane , a chipping machine and a coldmolding machine .	所以 , 我確實提出了一個提案 , 要和一艘貨物搭上貨物 , 和兩艘退休的捕魚船 , 一艘起重機、一艘拖網和一台冷模機器一起出去 。
and my intention was to go out to the gyre , raise awareness about this issue and begin to pick up the plastic , chip it into little bits and cold mold it into bricks that could potentially be used as building materials in underdeveloped communities .	我的意圖是要走出垃圾漩渦 , 提高人們對這個議題的認知 , 並開始把塑膠帶進一些小片段 , 將之塑膠製成冷凍的磚塊 , 可以用在已開發的社區中建立材料 。
i began talking with people who actually had been out to the gyre and were studying the plastic problem in the marine environment and upon doing so , i realized actually that cleaning it up would be a very small drop in the bucket relative to how much is being generated every day around the world , and that actually i needed to back up and look at the bigger picture .	我開始和真正去過垃圾漩渦的人談話 , 他們在研究海洋環境中的塑膠問題 , 並且在做這件事情時 , 我意識到 , 清理乾淨的垃圾 , 會是很小的一滴 , 和全世界每天產生的產量相比 , 實際上 , 我需要回頭看看更大的狀況 。
and the bigger picture is: we need to find a way to turn off the faucet .	更重要的是:我們需要找到方法去關掉表面 。
we need to cut the spigot of singleuse and disposable plastics , which are entering the marine environment every day on a global scale .	我們需要切斷使用的單一使用和丟棄的塑膠 , 每天進入海洋環境 , 以全球性的規模 , 每天都要進入 。
so in looking at that , i also realized that i was really angry .	仔細觀察後 , 我發現自己真的很生氣 。
i wasn't just concerned about plastic that you're trying to imagine out in the middle of the pacific ocean of which i have learned there are now 11 gyres , potentially , of plastic in five major oceans in the world .	我不只在乎塑膠 , 你還在試著想像在太平洋中間的海洋 , 我現在知道有11個塑膠垃圾 , 可能是世界上五個主要海洋中的塑膠 。
it's not just that gyre of plastic that i'm concerned about it's the gyre of plastic in the supermarket .	我所關心的 , 不只是一團塑膠垃圾 , 而是超市裡的塑膠垃圾 。
i'd go to the supermarket and all of my food is packaged in plastic .	我會去超市 , 所有的食物都是用塑膠包裝的 。
all of my beverages are packaged in plastic , even at the health food market .	我所有的河水都被包裝在塑膠裡 , 甚至在健康食品市場 。
i'm also concerned about the plastic in the refrigerator , and i'm concerned about the plastic and the toxins that leach from plastic into us and into our bodies .	我也很擔心冰箱裡的塑膠 , 我也很關心從塑膠滲出的有毒物 , 滲透到我們身體裡的塑膠和毒素 。
so i came together with a group of other people who were all looking at this issue , and we created the plastic pollution coalition .	所以我和一群人一起 , 他們都在研究這個問題 , 我們也創造了塑膠污染聯盟 。
we have many initiatives that we're working on , but some of them are very basic .	我們有許多我們正在進行的方案 , 但有些方案非常基本 。
one is: if 80 to 90 percent of what we're finding in the ocean of the marine debris that we're finding in the ocean is plastic , then why don't we call it what it is .	第一:如果我們在海洋中發現的海洋中有80%到90%的物質是我們在海洋中發現的 , 海洋廢物是塑膠 , 那我們為什麼不把它稱為塑膠 。
recycling everybody kind of ends their books about being sustainable and greening with the idea of recycling .	回收每一個人 , 都終結了他們關於永續與環保的書籍 , 帶著回收的概念 。
you put something in a bin and you don't have to think about it again .	你在垃圾桶裡放了東西 , 你不用再去想它 。
what is the reality of that ?	這一切的現實是什麼 ?
in the united states , less than seven percent of our plastics are recycled .	在美國 , 不到百分之七的塑膠被回收 。
and if you really look into it , particularly when it comes to plastic bottles , most of it is only downcycled , or incinerated , or shipped to china .	如果你仔細觀察它 , 特別是談到塑膠瓶 , 大部分的塑膠瓶只會被降級 , 或被送到中國去 。
it is downcycled and turned into lesser things , while a glass bottle can be a glass bottle again or can be used again a plastic bottle can never be a plastic bottle again .	它是循環的 , 轉變成較少的東西 , 玻璃瓶可以再次使用 , 或者再次使用塑膠瓶 , 永遠不會再變成塑膠瓶 。
so this is a big issue for us .	所以這對我們來說是個大問題 。
another thing that we're looking at and asking people to think about is we've added a fourth r onto the front of the " reduce , reuse , recycle , " three r's , and that is refuse .	另一件我們在看並要求人們思考的事情是我們在 「 減量、使用、回收 」 的前面加上第四個環節 , 這三個環節是拒絕的 。
whenever possible , refuse singleuse and disposable plastics .	盡可能地 , 拒絕使用過的單一使用和丟棄的塑膠 。
alternatives exist ; some of them are very oldschool .	替代方案存在 ; 有些是非常古老的 。
i myself am now collecting these cool pyrex containers and using those instead of glad and tupperware containers to store food in .	我現在在收集這些很酷的pyrex容器 , 用它們來儲存食物 。
and i know that i am doing a service to myself and my family .	我知道我在為自己和家人服務 。
it's very easy to pick up a stainlesssteel bottle or a glass bottle , if you're traveling and you've forgotten to bring your stainlesssteel bottle and fill that up with water or filtered water , versus purchasing plastic bottled water .	很容易就拿起一瓶不銹鋼瓶或一瓶玻璃瓶 , 如果你在旅行時忘了帶著一瓶又一瓶的廢棄鋼瓶 , 裝滿水或濾過濾的水 , 來買一瓶塑膠瓶 。
i guess what i want to say to everybody here and i know that you guys know a lot about this issue is that this is a huge problem in the oceans , but this is a problem that we've created as consumers and we can solve .	我想我要告訴在座的各位我知道你們都知道這個議題 , 是因為在海洋中 , 這是個大問題 , 但身為消費者 , 我們已經創造出這個問題 , 我們可以解決這個問題 。
we can solve this by raising awareness of the issue and teaching people to choose alternatives .	我們可以藉由提高對這個問題的認知 , 教導人們選擇替代方案來解決這個問題 。
so whenever possible , to choose alternatives to singleuse plastics .	所以 , 不論何時 , 要選擇使用單燃料塑膠的替代方案 。
we can cut the stem tide the stem of this into our oceans and in doing so , save our oceans , save our planet , save ourselves .	我們可以把流層切入海洋 , 這樣一來 , 拯救我們的海洋、拯救我們的地球、拯救我們自己 。
this demo from pattie maes' lab at mit , spearheaded by pranav mistry was the buzz of ted . it's a wearable device with a projector that paves the way for profound interaction with our environment . imagine " minority report " and then some .	這個來自麻省理工學院的帕蒂馬斯實驗室 , 帕納•米特利是ted的專家 , 它是一個可以穿戴的裝置 , 可以為我們環境的深度互動鋪路 。 想像一下 , 「 關鍵性報告 」 和一些人 。
demo , design , interface design , technology	展示、設計、界面設計、科技等 ,
pattie maes and pranav mistry demo sixthsense	派特提馬和帕納•米爾斯密特 , 展示了第六感 。
i've been intrigued by this question of whether we could evolve or develop a sixth sense a sense that would give us seamless access and easy access to metainformation or information that may exist somewhere that may be relevant to help us make the right decision about whatever it is that we're coming across .	我一直對這個問題很有興趣 , 關於我們是否能夠進化或發展出第六感 , 一種能夠讓我們無縫接觸、簡單的代謝和現有的資訊 , 來協助我們做出正確的決定 , 不論我們身在何處 。
and some of you may argue , well , don't today's cell phones do that already ?	有些人可能認為 , 嗯 , 現今的手機不是已經做到的嗎 ?
but i would say no .	但我會說不 。
when you meet someone here at ted and this is the top networking place , of course , of the year you don't shake somebody's hand and then say , " can you hold on for a moment while i take out my phone and google you ? "	當你在ted看到某人時--當然 , 這是今年最佳的網路網絡地點--你不會握某人的手 , 然後說: 「 你能在我拿出手機和谷歌的時候保持一下嗎 ? 」
or when you go to the supermarket and you're standing there in that huge aisle of different types of toilet papers , you don't take out your cell phone , and open a browser , and go to a website to try to decide which of these different toilet papers is the most ecologically responsible purchase to make .	或者 , 當你去超市 , 站在那巨大的走廊上 , 站在那兒 , 穿著各種各樣的衛生紙 , 你不會拿出手機 , 打開瀏覽器 , 到網站上 , 試著決定哪些不同的衛生紙是最環保的負責任的購物 。
so we don't really have easy access to all this relevant information that can just help us make optimal decisions about what to do next and what actions to take .	所以 , 我們沒有很容易取得這些相關的資訊 , 能夠協助我們做出最佳決策 , 決定接下來要做什麼 , 要採取什麼行動 。
and so my research group at the media lab has been developing a series of inventions to give us access to this information in a sort of easy way , without requiring that the user changes any of their behavior .	所以我在媒體實驗室的研究小組正在研發一系列的發明 , 以某種簡單的方式取得這些資訊 , 不必要求使用者改變他們的行為 。
and i'm here to unveil our latest effort , and most successful effort so far , which is still very much a work in process .	我來這裡是要揭開我們最新的努力 , 最成功的努力 , 到目前為止 , 這仍然是一個過程中的工作 。
i'm actually wearing the device right now and we've sort of cobbled it together with components that are off the shelf and that , by the way , only cost 350 dollars at this point in time .	實際上 , 我現在正在戴著這個裝置 , 我們已經將它與在架上擺脫的零件結合在一起 , 順帶一提 , 目前這個裝置的成本只有350美元 。
i'm wearing a camera , just a simple webcam , a portable , batterypowered projection system with a little mirror .	我正戴著一台攝影機 , 一個簡單的網路攝影機 , 一個可攜式的電池驅動力投影系統 , 用一面鏡子 。
these components communicate to my cell phone in my pocket which acts as the communication and computation device .	這些元件在我的口袋裡跟我的手機通訊 , 作為通訊和計算機的運算裝置 。
and in the video here we see my student pranav mistry , who's really the genius who's been implementing and designing this whole system .	在影片中 , 我們看到我的學生 , 帕納•米特利 , 他是真正實施和設計這整個系統的天才 。
and we see how this system lets him walk up to any surface and start using his hands to interact with the information that is projected in front of him .	我們看到這個系統如何讓他走到任何平面上 , 開始用他的雙手 , 來和他面前投射在他面前的資訊互動 。
the system tracks the four significant fingers .	系統會追蹤這四隻重要手指 。
in this case , he's wearing simple marker caps that you may recognize .	在這個案例中 , 他戴著你可能認得的簡單印刷 。
but if you want a more stylish version you could also paint your nails in different colors .	但如果你想要比較時髦的版本 , 你也可以用不同的顏色來繪製你的指甲 。
and the camera basically tracks these four fingers and recognizes any gestures that he's making so he can just go to , for example , a map of long beach , zoom in and out , etc .	攝影機基本上能追蹤這四根手指 , 識別他做出的任何手勢 , 例如 , 他可以直接到一個長灘的地圖 , 拉近 , 拉近 , 拉近 , 拉近等等 。
the system also recognizes iconic gestures such as the " take a picture " gesture , and then takes a picture of whatever is in front of you .	系統也能辨識出具代表性的手勢 , 例如 「 拍照 」 手勢 , 然後拍下你面前的任何東西 。
and when he then walks back to the media lab , he can just go up to any wall and project all the pictures that he's taken , sort through them and organize them , and resize them , etc . , again using all natural gestures .	當他回到媒體實驗室時 , 他可以走到任何一面牆上 , 將他所拍攝的所有照片 , 分類並組織起來 , 再利用所有自然的手勢 。
so , some of you most likely were here two years ago and saw the demo by jeff han or some of you may think , " well , doesn't this look like the microsoft surface table ? "	有些人可能兩年前就在這裡 , 看到了jefffhan的示範 , 你們有些人可能會想: 「 這不是看起來像微軟的表面桌子嗎 ? 」
and yes , you also interact using natural gestures , both hands , etc .	是的 , 你也用自然的手勢互動 , 雙手等等 。
but the difference here is that you can use any surface , you can walk to up to any surface , including your hand if nothing else is available and interact with this projected data .	但這裡的差別在於 , 你可以用任何表面 , 你可以走到任何表面前 , 包括你的手 , 如果沒有其他表面可以取得 , 和這個投影的資料進行互動 。
the device is completely portable , and can be . . .	這個裝置完全可攜帶 , 也可能是......
so one important difference is that it's totally mobile .	其中一個不同點是它完全是行動化的 。
another even more important difference is that in mass production this would not cost more tomorrow than today's cell phones and would actually not sort of be a bigger packaging could look a lot more stylish than this version that i'm wearing around my neck .	另外一個更重要的差別在於 , 大量生產的成本不會比現在的手機更昂貴 , 而且不會變成更大的包裝 , 看起來會比我脖子上穿著的這個版本還要時髦很多 。
but other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as tom cruise in " minority report , " the reason why we're really excited about this device is that it really can act as one of these sixthsense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you .	除了讓你們其中一些人活在《關鍵報告》裡 , 看起來像湯姆克魯斯一樣酷的幻想之外 , 我們對於這個裝置感到非常興奮的原因是它真的可以當作第六感裝置的裝置 , 讓你知道你面前的任何東西 。
so we see pranav here going into the supermarket and he's shopping for some paper towels .	我們看到帕納進入超市 , 他在買一些紙巾 。
and , as he picks up a product the system can recognize the product that he's picking up , using either image recognition or marker technology , and give him the green light or an orange light .	當他拿起這個系統時 , 系統可以辨識出他撿到的產品 , 用影像辨識或標記技術 , 給他綠燈或橘燈 。
he can ask for additional information .	他可以尋求額外的資訊 。
so this particular choice here is a particularly good choice , given his personal criteria .	所以這個特定的選擇是特別好的選擇 , 基於他個人的標準 。
some of you may want the toilet paper with the most bleach in it rather than the most ecologicallyresponsible choice .	你們之中有些人可能想要用最漂亮的衛生紙 , 而不是最環保的選擇 。
if he picks up a book in the bookstore , he can get an amazon rating it gets projected right on the cover of the book .	如果他在書店裡拿起一本書 , 他能取得亞馬遜書局的評分 , 就直接投影在書的封面上 。
this is juan's book , our previous speaker , which gets a great rating , by the way , at amazon .	這是胡安的書 , 我們之前的演講者 , 順帶一提 , 在亞馬遜 , 取得了很棒的評分 。
and so , pranav turns the page of the book and can then see additional information about the book reader comments , maybe sort of information by his favorite critic , etc .	所以 , 帕納翻轉了這本書的頁面 , 還可以看到書籍讀者留言的額外資訊 , 也許是他最喜歡的評論家所寫的 , 等等 。
if he turns to a particular page he finds an annotation by maybe an expert of a friend of ours that gives him a little bit of additional information about whatever is on that particular page .	如果他翻到某個特定的一頁 , 他會找到一段註解 , 給我們一個朋友的專家 , 給他一些額外的資訊 , 關於那一頁的任何資訊 。
reading the newspaper it never has to be outdated .	閱讀那些從未過時的報紙 。
you can get video annotations of the event that you're reading about you can get the latest sports scores etc .	你可以在影片上看到你正在讀到的事件的註解 , 你可以得到最近的體育比例等等 。
this is a more controversial one .	這個比較有爭議性 。
as you interact with someone at ted , maybe you can see a word cloud of the tags , the words that are associated with that person in their blog and personal web pages .	當你和ted的人互動時 , 也許你能看到標籤上的字雲 , 和那個人在部落格和個人網頁上的連結在一起的字 。
in this case , the student is interested in cameras , etc .	在這個案例中 , 學生對攝影機感興趣 , 等等 。
on your way to the airport , if you pick up your boarding pass , it can tell you that your flight is delayed , that the gate has changed , etc .	在你去機場的路上 , 如果你拿起你的登機證 , 它可以告訴你 , 你的航班延遲了 , 門已經改變了 , 等等 。
and , if you need to know what the current time is it's as simple as drawing a watch on your arm .	如果你需要知道當下的時間 , 就跟在手臂上畫一個手錶一樣簡單 。
so that's where we're at so far in developing this sixth sense that would give us seamless access to all this relevant information about the things that we may come across .	到目前為止 , 我們正朝著發展第六感的方向發展 , 為我們提供無縫接觸的資訊 , 關於我們可能遇到的事物的相關資訊 。
my student pranav , who's really , like i said , the genius behind this .	我的學生帕納 , 非常 , 像我說的 , 這背後的天才 。
he does deserve a lot of applause because i don't think he's slept much in the last three months , actually .	他確實值得很多掌聲因為我不認為他在過去的三個月裡睡得多
and his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either .	他的女朋友也可能對他不太滿意 。
but it's not perfect yet , it's very much a work in progress .	但它還不是完美的 , 它的進展非常重要 。
and who knows , maybe in another 10 years we'll be here with the ultimate sixth sense brain implant .	誰知道 , 或許在未來的十年內 , 我們會帶著終極第六感大腦植入來這裡 。
phyllis rodriguez and aicha elwafi have a powerful friendship born of unthinkable loss . rodriguez' son was killed in the world trade center attacks on september 11 , 2001 ; elwafi's son zacarias moussaoui was convicted of a role in those attacks and is serving a life sentence . in hoping to find peace , these two moms have come to understand and respect one another .	phyllisrodriguez和aichaelwafi有一個很強大的友誼船 , 生於無法想像的損失 。 rodriguez的兒子在2001年9月11日 , 在世界貿易中心被殺害 ; 在2001年9月11日的9月11日 , elwafi的兒子薩路人被判定為一個角色 , 並且在這些攻擊中為一句子服務 。
culture , global issues , politics	文化、全球議題、政治、政治 ,
9/11 healing: the mothers who found forgiveness , friendship	911的療癒:那些發現原諒和友誼的母親們 。
phyllis rodriguez: we are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship .	phyllisrodriguez:我們今天來到這裡 , 是因為我們有大多數人認為不尋常的友誼 。
and yet , it feels natural to us now .	然而 , 現在感覺很自然 。
i first learned that my son had been in the world trade center on the morning of september 11th , 2001 .	我第一次了解到 , 我兒子在2001年9月11日的早上 , 已經在世界貿易中心 。
we didn't know if he had perished yet until 36 hours later .	我們不知道他是否死了 , 直到36小時後 。
at the time , we knew that it was political .	那時 , 我們知道那是政治化的 。
we were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son my husband , orlando , and i and our family .	我們害怕我們的國家要怎麼做 , 以我們兒子 , 我的丈夫 , 奧蘭多 , 我和家人的名義 。
and when i saw it and yet , through the shock , the terrible shock , and the terrible explosion in our lives , literally , we were not vengeful .	當我看到它 , 透過震驚 , 震驚的震驚 , 和生活中可怕的爆炸 , 真的 , 我們沒有復仇 。
and a couple of weeks later when zacarias moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism , and the u . s . government called for a death penalty for him , if convicted , my husband and i spoke out in opposition to that , publicly .	幾週後 , 薩烏里亞人被指控以六種陰謀來犯罪 , 美國政府要求對他判死刑 , 如果罪名被判死刑 , 我和我的丈夫公開反對 。
through that and through human rights groups , we were brought together with several other victims' families .	透過這些 , 透過人權團體 , 我們和其他受害者的家人聚在一起 。
when i saw aicha in the media , coming over when her son was indicted , and i thought , " what a brave woman .	當我在媒體上看到aicha , 她的兒子被指控時 , 過來找我 , 我心想: 「 多麼勇敢的女人啊 。
someday i want to meet that woman when i'm stronger . "	有一天 , 我想要碰見那位更強壯的女人 。 」
i was still in deep grief ; i knew i didn't have the strength .	我仍然陷入深刻的悲痛中 ; 我知道我沒有力量 。
i knew i would find her someday , or we would find each other .	我知道有一天我會找到她 , 或我們會找到彼此 。
because , when people heard that my son was a victim , i got immediate sympathy .	因為 , 當人們聽到我的兒子是受害者時 , 我馬上得到同情 。
but when people learned what her son was accused of , she didn't get that sympathy .	但當人們知道她兒子被指控的是什麼 , 她沒有得到同情 。
but her suffering is equal to mine .	但她的痛苦和我的一樣 。
so we met in november 2002 , and aicha will now tell you how that came about .	我們在2002年11月見面 , 現在aicha會告訴你怎麼回事 。
aicha elwafi: good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen .	aichaelwafi:午安 , 各位先生女士 。
i am the mother of zacarias moussaoui .	我是zacariasamussaoui之母
and i asked the organization of human rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims .	我請人權組織讓我接觸到受害者的父母 。
so they introduced me to five families .	所以他們把我介紹給五個家庭 。
and i saw phyllis , and i watched her .	我看到phyllis , 我看著她 。
she was the only mother in the group .	她是這群人中唯一的母親 。
the others were brothers , sisters .	其他人則是兄弟姐妹 。
and i saw in her eyes that she was a mother , just like me .	我在她的眼中看到她是一個母親 , 跟我一樣 。
i suffered a lot as a mother .	身為一個母親 , 我痛苦很多 。
i was married when i was 14 .	我十四歲的時候就結了婚 。
i lost a child when i was 15 , a second child when i was 16 .	我在十五歲時失去了一個孩子 , 一個十六歲的第二個孩子 。
so the story with zacarias was too much really .	所以 , zacarias的故事實在太多了
and i still suffer , because my son is like he's buried alive .	我仍然很痛苦 , 因為我的兒子就像被活埋一樣 。
i know she really cried for her son .	我知道她真的為兒子哭了 。
but she knows where he is .	但她知道他在哪裡 。
my son , i don't know where he is .	我兒子 , 我不知道他在哪裡 。
i don't know if he's alive . i don't know if he's tortured .	我不知道他是否還活著 , 我不知道他是否受虐 。
i don't know what happened to him .	我不知道他發生了什麼事 。
so that's why i decided to tell my story , so that my suffering is something positive for other women .	這就是為什麼我決定要說我的故事 , 這樣我的痛苦對其他女性來說是正面的 。
for all the women , all the mothers that give life , you can give back , you can change .	對所有女性而言 , 所有賦予生命的母親 , 你可以回饋 , 你可以改變 。
it's up to us women , because we are women , because we love our children .	這取決於我們女人 , 因為我們是女性 , 因為我們愛我們的孩子 。
we must be handinhand and do something together .	我們必須手牽手一起做些什麼 。
it's not against women , it's for us , for us women , for our children .	這不是反對女性 , 而是為我們 , 為我們女人 , 為我們的孩子 。
i talk against violence , against terrorism .	我反對暴力 , 反對恐怖主義 。
i go to schools to talk to young , muslim girls so they don't accept to be married against their will very young .	我去了學校 , 去和年輕的穆斯林女孩對談 , 這樣他們才不會接受結婚 , 以免年輕就結婚 。
so if i can save one of the young girls , and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as i did , well this is something good .	所以如果我能拯救其中一個年輕女孩 , 盡量避免她們結婚和受苦 , 嗯 , 這是件好事 。
this is why i'm here in front of you .	這就是我站在你們面前的原因 。
pr: i would like to say that i have learned so much from aicha , starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members which was a very private meeting with security , because it was november 2002 , and , frankly , we were afraid of the superpatriotism of that time in the country those of us family members .	pr:我想說我從aicha學到很多 , 從那天開始 , 我們第一次和其他家庭成員見面是非常私人的會議 , 因為那是2002年11月 , 老實說 , 我們害怕當時國家的超級愛國主義 ,
but we were all so nervous .	但我們都很緊張 。
" why does she want to meet us ? "	「 她為什麼想要和我們見面 ? 」
and then she was nervous .	然後她很緊張 。
" why did we want to meet her ? "	「 為什麼我們想要和她見面 ? 」
what did we want from each other ?	我們彼此想要什麼 ?
before we knew each others' names , or anything , we had embraced and wept .	在我們知道別人的名字之前 , 或任何事之前 , 我們都已經欣然接受和哭了 。
then we sat in a circle with support , with help , from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation .	接著 , 我們就坐成一圈 , 帶著支持 , 帶著協助 , 人們有這種和解的感覺 。
and aicha started , and she said , " i don't know if my son is guilty or innocent , but i want to tell you how sorry i am for what happened to your families .	然後aicha就開始了 , 她說: 「 我不知道我兒子有沒有罪 , 或無辜 , 但我想要告訴你們 , 我對你們家人的遭遇有多麼不好意思 。
i know what it is to suffer , and i feel that if there is a crime , a person should be tried fairly and punished . "	我知道痛苦是什麼 , 且我覺得 , 如果犯罪發生了 , 一個人應該被公平對待和懲罰 。 」
but she reached out to us in that way , and it was , i'd like to say , it was an icebreaker .	但她以這種方式接觸我們 , 我想說 , 那是個破冰者 。
and what happened then is we all told our stories , and we all connected as human beings .	接下來發生的事 , 我們都說了自己的故事 , 身為人類 , 我們都建立了連結 。
by the end of the afternoon it was about three hours after lunch we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever .	下午結束時 , 大概是午餐後的三小時 , 我們覺得好像我們彼此都認識了一樣 。
now what i learned from her , is a woman , not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then , and what was being done to her son , but the life she's had .	我從她身上學到的是 , 一個女人 , 不但能夠如此慷慨地在這些當下 , 如此慷慨 , 和當時的狀況 , 還有她兒子在做什麼 , 還有她所經歷的人生 。
i never had met someone with such a hard life , from such a totally different culture and environment from my own .	我從來沒有見過這麼艱苦的生活的人 , 來自我自己的完全不同的文化和環境 。
and i feel that we have a special connection , which i value very much .	我覺得我們有一種很特別的連結 , 我非常重視它 。
and i think it's all about being afraid of the other , but making that step and then realizing , " hey , this wasn't so hard .	我想這一切都和害怕對方有關 , 但走了這一步 , 了解到: 「 嘿 , 這不是那麼難 。
who else can i meet that i don't know , or that i'm so different from ? "	我還能遇到誰 ? 我不知道 , 或說我和別人很不一樣 ? 」
so , aicha , do you have a couple of words for conclusion ?	所以 , 艾卡 , 你有幾句話可以做結論嗎 ?
because our time is up .	因為我們的時間到了 。
aw: i wanted to say that we have to try to know other people , the other .	艾美:我想說我們必須試著認識其他人 , 其他人 。
you have to be generous , and your hearts must be generous , your mind must be generous .	你必須要寬容 , 你的心也要寬容 , 你的心也要寬容 。
you must be tolerant .	你一定要很寬容 。
you have to fight against violence .	你必須對抗暴力 。
and i hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other .	我希望有一天 , 我們都能和平共存 , 尊重彼此 。
this is what i wanted to say .	這是我想要說的 。
too much of the world lacks access to clean drinking water . engineer michael pritchard did something about it inventing the portable lifesaver filter , which can make the most revolting water drinkable in seconds . an amazing demo from tedglobal 2009 .	世界上太多地方無法取得乾淨的飲用水 。 工程師邁克爾普立塔克在發明可攜式的生命安全過濾器時 , 可以在幾秒內讓最難以置信的飲用水 。 2009年的tedglobal做了一個很棒的示範 。
business , demo , design , global issues , invention , technology , water	企業、demo、設計、全球議題、發明、科技、水資源等 。
michael pritchard's water filter turns filthy water drinkable	邁可爾普立特的濾水過濾器會變成骯髒的飲用水 。
i'd like to talk about a couple of things today .	今天我想要談幾件事 。
the first thing is water .	第一是水 。
now i see you've all been enjoying the water that's been provided for you here at the conference , over the past couple of days .	現在我看到你們都在享受這座大會上所提供的水 , 在過去的幾天裡 。
and i'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source .	我相信你們會覺得這一切都源自於安全的源頭 。
but what if it wasn't ?	但如果沒有呢 ?
what if it was from a source like this ?	如果它是來自這樣的來源呢 ?
then statistics would actually say that half of you would now be suffering with diarrhea .	統計數據顯示 , 在座有一半的人現在正遭受腹瀉的折磨 。
i talked a lot in the past about statistics , and the provision of safe drinking water for all .	我在過去談了很多關於統計 , 以及對所有人的安全飲用水的預設 。
but they just don't seem to get through .	但他們似乎沒有經歷過 。
and i think i've worked out why .	我想我已經搞清楚為什麼了 。
it's because , using current thinking , the scale of the problem just seems too huge to contemplate solving .	因為 , 用當前的思維 , 問題的規模似乎太大了 , 無法去思考解決 。
so we just switch off: us , governments and aid agencies .	所以我們就關掉了:我們、政府 , 和援助機構 。
well , today , i'd like to show you that through thinking differently , the problem has been solved .	嗯 , 今天 , 我想讓各位用不同的方式思考 , 問題已經被解決了 。
by the way , since i've been speaking , another 13 , 000 people around the world are suffering now with diarrhea .	順道一提 , 自從我說話以來 , 世界各地有一萬三千人現在正遭受腹瀉的折磨 。
and four children have just died .	四個孩子剛剛死去 。
i invented lifesaver bottle because i got angry .	我發明了lifesver濾水瓶 , 因為我生氣了 。
i , like most of you , was sitting down , the day after christmas in 2004 , when i was watching the devastating news of the asian tsunami as it rolled in , playing out on tv .	我和大部分人一樣 , 在2004年聖誕節後的隔天 , 當時我在看2004年 , 亞洲海嘯捲入時的消息 , 在電視上播放 。
the days and weeks that followed , people fleeing to the hills , being forced to drink contaminated water or face death .	接下來的幾週 , 人們逃到山丘上 , 被迫喝下被污染的水 , 或面對死亡 。
that really stuck with me .	這真的困擾著我 。
then , a few months later , hurricane katrina slammed into the side of america .	幾個月後 , 卡崔娜颶風卡崔娜颶風襲擊了美國的這一邊 。
" okay , " i thought , " here's a first world country , let's see what they can do . "	「 好吧 , 」 我心想: 「 這是第一個世界國家 , 讓我們看看他們能做什麼 。 」
do you know it took five days to get water to the superdome ?	你知道要花五天才把水送到超級主體嗎 ?
people were shooting each other on the streets for tv sets and water .	人們在街上互相射殺電視機和水 。
that's when i decided i had to do something .	那時 , 我決定我得要做點什麼 。
now i spent a lot of time in my garage , over the next weeks and months , and also in my kitchen much to the dismay of my wife .	現在我花了很多時間在我的車庫裡 , 接下來幾週、幾個月 , 我在廚房裡待了很多時間 , 讓我的妻子感到沮喪 。
however , after a few failed prototypes , i finally came up with this , the lifesaver bottle .	然而 , 經過幾次失敗的原型後 , 我終於想到了這個 , 生命安全瓶 。
okay , now for the science bit .	好 , 現在來談談科學 。
before lifesaver , the best hand filters were only capable of filtering down to about 200 nanometers .	在生命安全局之前 , 最好的手動過濾器只能過濾到200奈米 。
the smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers .	最小的細菌大約200奈米 。
so a 200nanometer bacteria is going to get through a 200nanometer hole .	所以 , 一個200奈米的細菌將會穿過一個200奈米大的洞 。
the smallest virus , on the other hand , is about 25 nanometers .	另一方面 , 最小的病毒大約有25奈米 。
so that's definitely going to get through those 200 nanometer holes .	所以這絕對會穿過那200奈米的洞 。
lifesaver pores are 15 nanometers .	生命安全氣孔是15奈米 。
so nothing is getting through .	所以 , 沒有任何東西可以通過 。
okay , i'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration .	好 , 我來示範一下 。
would you like to see that ?	你們想看看嗎 ?
i spent all the time setting this up , so i guess i should .	我花了很多時間準備它 , 所以我猜我應該要花很多時間 。
we're in the fine city of oxford .	我們正在一個美好的牛津城 。
so someone's done that up .	有人這麼做了 。
fine city of oxford , so what i've done is i've gone and got some water from the river cherwell , and the river thames , that flow through here . and this is the water .	牛津大學的牛津城市 , 我所做的是從河裡的櫻桃 , 和河流的泰晤士河取出一些水 , 流過這裡 。 這就是水 。
but i got to thinking , you know , if we were in the middle of a flood zone in bangladesh , the water wouldn't look like this .	但我開始想 , 如果我們身在孟加拉的洪水區中間 , 水不會像這樣 。
so i've gone and got some stuff to add into it .	所以我拿了一些東西來加入 。
and this is from my pond .	這是從我的池塘裡來的 。
have a smell of that , mister cameraman .	聞一下吧 , 攝影師先生 。
we're just going to pour that in there .	我們要把它倒進去 。
michael pritchard: okay . we've got some runoff from a sewage plant farm .	michaelprichard:好的 , 我們有一些從污水處理場流出的 。
so i'm just going to put that in there .	所以 , 我要把這個放進去 。
put that in there . there we go .	放進去 , 這樣就開始了 。
and some other bits and pieces , chuck that in there .	還有一些其它的片段 , 把它切碎 。
and i've got a gift here from a friend of mine's rabbit .	我有個朋友的兔子送給我的禮物 。
so we're just going to put that in there as well .	所以我們也要把它放進去 。
the lifesaver bottle works really simply .	生命安全瓶子真的很簡單 。
you just scoop the water up .	你只要把水挖出來就好 。
today i'm going to use a jug just to show you all . let's get a bit of that poo in there .	今天我要用一個木頭來展示給你們看 。 讓你們看看裡面的一些木頭 。
that's not dirty enough . let's just stir that up a little bit .	這樣還不夠髒 。 讓我們稍微攪拌一下 。
okay , so i'm going to take this really filthy water , and put it in here . do you want a drink yet ?	好 , 現在我要用這個非常骯髒的水 , 把它放在這裡 。 你還想要一個飲料嗎 ?
okay . there we go .	好 , 開始吧 。
give it a few pumps . okay ?	給它一些幫浦 , 好嗎 ?
that's all that's necessary .	這就是必要的 。
now as soon as i pop the teat , sterile drinking water is going to come out .	一旦我把茶壺打開 , 無菌的飲用水就會流出來 。
i've got to be quick . okay , ready ?	我得快點 。 準備好了嗎 ?
there we go . mind the electrics .	這樣 , 心裡想著電 。
that is safe , sterile drinking water .	那是安全無菌的飲用水 。
there you go chris .	來吧 , 克里斯 。
what's it taste of ?	它的味道是什麼 ?
let's see chris's program throughout the rest of the show . okay ?	讓我們看看克里斯的節目其餘的節目 。 好嗎 ?
okay . lifesaver bottle is used by thousands of people around the world .	好 , 世界各地數以千計的人使用lifesver濾水瓶 。
it'll last for 6 , 000 liters .	可以維持6000公升
and when it's expired , using failsafe technology , the system will shut off , protecting the user .	當它過期時 , 使用失敗安全的科技 , 系統就會關閉 , 保護使用者 。
pop the cartridge out . pop a new one in .	把車子打開 , 把車子打開 。
it's good for another 6 , 000 liters .	另外六千公升是好的 。
so let's look at the applications .	咱們來看看應用程式 。
traditionally , in a crisis , what do we do ?	傳統上 , 在危機中 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
then , after a few weeks , we set up camps .	然後 , 幾個星期後 , 我們建立了營地 。
and people are forced to come into the camps to get their safe drinking water .	人們被迫進難民營取得安全的飲用水 。
what happens when 20 , 000 people congregate in a camp ?	當二萬人聚集在難民營時 , 會發生什麼事 ?
diseases spread . more resources are required .	散播疾病 , 需要更多的資源
the problem just becomes selfperpetuating .	這個問題就變成了自我繁榮 。
but by thinking differently , and shipping these , people can stay put .	但透過不同的思考 , 運送這些資訊 , 人們可以留在原地 。
they can make their own sterile drinking water , and start to get on with rebuilding their homes and their lives .	他們可以自行製造無菌的飲用水 , 開始重建他們的家園和生活 。
now , it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work .	這並不需要天然災害才有用 。
using the old thinking , of national infrastructure and pipe work , is too expensive .	用舊思維 , 國家基礎建設和管道工程的費用太高了 。
when you run the numbers on a calculator , you run out of noughts .	當你在計算機上運行計算機的數量 , 你就沒有辦法運行了 。
so here is the " thinking different " bit .	這就是 「 換個想法 」 的部份 。
instead of shipping water , and using manmade processes to do it , let's use mother nature . she's got a fantastic system .	與其運送水 , 使用人造的過程來運送 , 讓我們使用大自然 。 她有一個很棒的系統 。
she picks the water up from there , desalinates it , for free , transports it over there , and dumps it onto the mountains , rivers , and streams .	她從那裡取水 , 免費除去它的鹽水 , 運送到那裡 , 把水倒在山上、河流和溪流上 。
and where do people live ? near water .	人們住在哪裡 ? 靠近水源的地方 。
all we've go to do is make it sterile . how do we do that ?	我們要做的就是讓它消毒 。 我們要怎麼做呢 ?
well , we could use the lifesaver bottle .	嗯 , 我們可以使用lifesaver濾水瓶
or we could use one of these .	或者我們可以使用其中一種 。
the same technology , in a jerry can .	同樣的技術 , 裝在jerry的罐子裡 。
this will process 25 , 000 liters of water ; that's good enough for a family of four , for three years .	這會處理二萬五千公升的水 , 足以維持四、三年的家庭 。
and how much does it cost ?	要花多少錢 ?
about half a cent a day to run .	一天要跑大約半分錢 。
so , by thinking differently , and processing water at the point of use , mothers and children no longer have to walk four hours a day to collect their water .	所以 , 用不同的方式思考 , 用水處理 , 每天母親和小孩不用再每天走四小時來取得他們的用水 。
they can get it from a source nearby .	他們可以從附近的源頭取得它 。
so with just eight billion dollars , we can hit the millennium goal's target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water .	只要花八十億美元 , 我們就能達到千禧目標的目標 , 讓無法取得安全飲用水的人數減半 。
to put that into context , the u . k . government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid .	若要把這件事情納入考量 , 英國政府每年花費大約120億英鎊在國外援助上 。
but why stop there ?	但為什麼就此打住 ?
with 20 billion dollars , everyone can have access to safe drinking water .	只要200億美元 , 每個人都能取得安全的飲用水 。
so the threeandahalf billion people that suffer every year as a result , and the two million kids that die every year , will live .	所以 , 每年因此受苦的三十五億人 , 每年死亡的兩百萬個孩子將會活下來 。
paddy ashdown claims that we are living in a moment in history where power is changing in ways it never has before . in a spellbinding talk at tedxbrussels he outlines the three major global shifts that he sees coming .	padyashown主張 , 我們生活在歷史上的這個時刻 , 權力從未改變過的方式 。 在tedxbrusels的演講中 , 他發表了三個全球性的重大轉變 。
foreign policy , global issues , politics , world cultures	外交政策、全球議題、政治、世界文化等 。
paddy ashdown: the global power shift	padyashown:全球權力移轉 。
there's a poem written by a very famous english poet at the end of the 19th century .	有一首詩是由一位非常有名的英國詩人在十九世紀末寫的 。
it was said to echo in churchill's brain in the 1930s .	在1930年代 , 教堂的大腦被認為會回音 。
and the poem goes: " on the idle hill of summer , lazy with the flow of streams , hark i hear a distant drummer , drumming like a sound in dreams , far and near and low and louder on the roads of earth go by , dear to friend and food to powder , soldiers marching , soon to die . "	這首詩是這樣寫的: 「 在夏天的象坡上 , 充滿了河流 , 我聽見遠方的鼓聲 , 我聽見遠方的鼓聲 , 就像夢想中的聲音 , 遠遠 , 近乎低沉、低沉、低沉 , 繞著地球的路上 , 親愛的朋友和食物 , 親愛的食物 , 親愛的士兵遊行 , 很快就要死了 。 」
those who are interested in poetry , the poem is " a shropshire lad " written by a . e . housman .	那些對詩作感興趣的人 , 這首詩叫做《購物師店小姐》 , 由a.e.豪斯曼寫的 。
but what housman understood , and you hear it in the symphonies of nielsen too , was that the long , hot , silvan summers of stability of the 19th century were coming to a close , and that we were about to move into one of those terrifying periods of history when power changes .	但豪斯曼所了解到的 , 你也在尼爾塞遜交響曲中聽到的 , 是十九世紀長久、炎熱、西爾文夏天的穩定感近來 , 我們即將進入歷史中最恐怖的時期之一 , 當權力的改變時期 。
and these are always periods , ladies and gentlemen , accompanied by turbulence , and all too often by blood .	女士們先生們 , 經常伴隨著亂流 , 經常是血來潮 。
and my message for you is that i believe we are condemned , if you like , to live at just one of those moments in history when the gimbals upon which the established order of power is beginning to change and the new look of the world , the new powers that exist in the world , are beginning to take form .	我想要傳達的訊息是 , 我相信我們被譴責 , 只在歷史上的某個時刻 , 當那些已經建立的權力秩序逐漸改變 , 新看世界時 , 世界上存在的新權力開始成形 。
and these are and we see it very clearly today nearly always highly turbulent times , highly difficult times , and all too often very bloody times .	我們現在看到的 , 很明顯地 , 現今幾乎總是高度動亂的時代 , 非常艱難的時代 , 很多時候都非常血腥 。
by the way , it happens about once every century .	順帶一提 , 這種事每世紀都會發生一次 。
you might argue that the last time it happened and that's what housman felt coming and what churchill felt too was that when power passed from the old nations , the old powers of europe , across the atlantic to the new emerging power of the united states of america the beginning of the american century .	你也許會說 , 上一次 , 發生了這一切 , 那就是霍斯曼所感受到的 , 也是教會的感受 , 當權力從舊國 , 歐洲的舊勢力通過 , 穿越了大西洋 , 到達美國的新興時期 , 美國的開始 。
and of course , into the vacuum where the tooold european powers used to be were played the two bloody catastrophes of the last century the one in the first part and the one in the second part: the two great world wars .	當然 , 在這個真空中 , 過去兩個世紀中歐洲人的政權被用來演奏兩場血腥的災難 , 第一部份和第二部分:兩場大戰 。
mao zedong used to refer to them as the european civil wars , and it's probably a more accurate way of describing them .	毛澤東曾經稱他們為歐洲內戰 , 這可能是更準確的描述他們的方式 。
well , ladies and gentlemen , we live at one of those times .	各位先生女士 , 我們生活在其中一個階段 。
but for us , i want to talk about three factors today .	但對我們來說 , 今天我要談的是三個因素 。
and the first of these , the first two of these , is about a shift in power .	首先 , 其中的兩個 , 是關於權力的轉變 。
and the second is about some new dimension which i want to refer to , which has never quite happened in the way it's happening now .	第二個例子是關於我想要表達的新維度 , 目前從來沒有像現在一樣發生過 。
but let's talk about the shifts of power that are occurring to the world .	但讓我們來談談正在發生的權力移轉 。
and what is happening today is , in one sense , frightening because it's never happened before .	現今正在發生的事 , 在某種程度上 , 令人害怕 , 因為從未發生過 。
we have seen lateral shifts of power the power of greece passed to rome and the power shifts that occurred during the european civilizations but we are seeing something slightly different .	我們見過橫向的權力移轉希臘的權力被送到羅馬以及在歐洲文明中發生的權力移轉但我們看到的有些不一樣
for power is not just moving laterally from nation to nation .	因為權力不只是從國家移轉到國家 。
it's also moving vertically .	它也向垂直方向移動 。
what's happening today is that the power that was encased , held to accountability , held to the rule of law , within the institution of the nation state has now migrated in very large measure onto the global stage .	現今正在發生的是 , 被預測的權力 , 被要求負責的權力 , 遵守法律的規則 , 目前 , 在這個國家的機構內 , 已經遷移到全球舞台上了 。
the globalization of power we talk about the globalization of markets , but actually it's the globalization of real power .	我們談到全球化的權力 , 市場全球化 , 但實際上 , 它是全球化的權力 。
and where , at the nation state level that power is held to accountability subject to the rule of law , on the international stage it is not .	在國家的層級 , 權力被灌輸給負責任的責任 , 受到法律的統治 , 國際舞台上沒有 。
the international stage and the global stage where power now resides: the power of the internet , the power of the satellite broadcasters , the power of the money changers this vast moneygoround that circulates now 32 times the amount of money necessary for the trade it's supposed to be there to finance the money changers , if you like , the financial speculators that have brought us all to our knees quite recently , the power of the multinational corporations now developing budgets often bigger than mediumsized countries .	國際舞台和全球舞台現在的權力掌握在網際網路的權力 , 衛星廣播的權力 , 金錢的權力 , 這巨大的金錢流通了現在流通了32倍的資金 , 供給交易所需的金錢用量 , 應該是用來財務上的改變者 , 如果你願意 , 財務上的規範者近來推動我們膝蓋的權力 , 往往往往往更大的權力發展中國家推動 。
these live in a global space which is largely unregulated , not subject to the rule of law , and in which people may act free of constraint .	這些生存在一個全球性空間 , 大多是沒有規範的 , 沒有受到法律的規範 , 人們可能沒有法律限制的行為 。
now that suits the powerful up to a moment .	這就符合了強而有力的時刻了 。
it's always suitable for those who have the most power to operate in spaces without constraint , but the lesson of history is that , sooner or later , unregulated space space not subject to the rule of law becomes populated , not just by the things you wanted international trade , the internet , etc . but also by the things you don't want international criminality , international terrorism .	總是適合那些有權力在沒有限制的空間中運作的人 , 但是歷史的教訓是 , 遲早 , 沒有受制於法律規範的空間 , 不僅僅是透過你想要國際貿易、網路、網路等等的東西 , 還有那些你不希望國際犯罪、國際恐怖主義的東西 。
the revelation of 9/11 is that even if you are the most powerful nation on earth , nevertheless , those who inhabit that space can attack you even in your most iconic of cities one bright september morning .	911事件的揭示是 , 即使你是地球上最強大的國家 , 儘管如此 , 那些生活在城市裡的人 , 仍然能夠攻擊你 , 即使在九月的一個明亮的早晨 , 也會攻擊你 。
it's said that something like 60 percent of the four million dollars that was taken to fund 9/11 actually passed through the institutions of the twin towers which 9/11 destroyed .	據說 , 花費了大約60%的資金來資助911恐怖攻擊的花費 , 其實是透過雙子星大樓的大樓 , 911摧毀了 。
you see , our enemies also use this space the space of mass travel , the internet , satellite broadcasters to be able to get around their poison , which is about destroying our systems and our ways .	我們的敵人也使用這個空間 , 大量旅遊、網路、衛星廣播人員 , 讓他們得以擺脫毒液 , 也就是摧毀我們的系統和方式 。
sooner or later , sooner or later , the rule of history is that where power goes governance must follow .	遲早 , 遲早 , 歷史的規則就是權力接管的地方 。
and if it is therefore the case , as i believe it is , that one of the phenomenon of our time is the globalization of power , then it follows that one of the challenges of our time is to bring governance to the global space .	假如我相信 , 如果是這樣 , 我們這個時代的一個現象就是全球化的權力 , 那麼我們這個時代所面臨的挑戰就是把統治者帶到全球的空間中 。
and i believe that the decades ahead of us now will be to a greater or lesser extent turbulent the more or less we are able to achieve that aim: to bring governance to the global space .	我相信在我們眼前的數十年 , 將會是更大或更小的混亂 , 更不可能達到那個目標:把統治者帶到全球的空間中 。
now notice , i'm not talking about government .	請注意 , 我不是在說政府 。
i'm not talking about setting up some global democratic institution .	我不是說要建立一些全球民主制度 。
my own view , by the way , ladies and gentlemen , is that this is unlikely to be done by spawning more u . n . institutions .	順帶一提 , 我自己的觀點是 , 女士們先生們 , 這樣做是不太可能的 , 透過吸收更多的聯合國機構 。
if we didn't have the u . n . , we'd have to invent it .	如果我們沒有聯合國 , 我們就得發明它 。
the world needs an international forum .	這個世界需要一個國際論壇 。
it needs a means by which you can legitimize international action .	它需要一種手段 , 可以合法化國際行動 。
but when it comes to governance of the global space , my guess is this won't happen through the creation of more u . n . institutions .	但 , 談到全球性空間的管理 , 我想這不會發生 , 透過聯合國的機構的創建 。
it will actually happen by the powerful coming together and making treatybased systems , treatybased agreements , to govern that global space .	會由強權團結在一起 , 做出以條約為基礎的系統 , 以條約為基礎的協定 , 來管理那全球的空間 。
and if you look , you can see them happening , already beginning to emerge .	如果你看 , 你可以看到他們正在發生 , 已經開始出現了 。
the world trade organization: treatybased organization , entirely treatybased , and yet , powerful enough to hold even the most powerful , the united states , to account if necessary .	世界貿易組織:完全以條約為基礎的組織 , 卻強大到可以容納最強大的組織 , 美國 , 負責任的國家 。
kyoto: the beginnings of struggling to create a treatybased organization .	kyoto:掙扎的開端 , 創造一個合約的組織 。
the g20: we know now that we have to put together an institution which is capable of bringing governance to that financial space for financial speculation .	二十國集團現在 , 我們知道我們必須組成一個機構 , 它能夠為財務空間帶來管理的能力 , 來實現財務上的猜測 。
and that's what the g20 is , a treatybased institution .	而這就是二十國集團的所在 , 一個以條約為基礎的機構 。
now there's a problem there , and we'll come back to it in a minute , which is that if you bring the most powerful together to make the rules in treatybased institutions , to fill that governance space , then what happens to the weak who are left out ?	現在這裡有個問題 , 我們等一下再回來談 , 如果你把最有權力的人集合在一起 , 來制定以條約為基礎的體制的規則 , 來填補統治的空間 , 那弱國會發生什麼事 ?
and that's a big problem , and we'll return to it in just a second .	這是個大問題 , 待會兒會再回來談這件事 。
so there's my first message , that if you are to pass through these turbulent times more or less turbulently , then our success in doing that will in large measure depend on our capacity to bring sensible governance to the global space .	所以 , 我的第一條訊息是 , 如果你越過這些亂流的倍數 , 甚至更少的亂流 , 那麼我們的成功將取決於我們有能力將合理的管理帶入全球空間 。
and watch that beginning to happen .	看著這一切開始發生 。
my second point is , and i know i don't have to talk to an audience like this about such a thing , but power is not just shifting vertically , it's also shifting horizontally .	我的第二點是 , 我知道我不需要跟像這樣的觀眾談談這件事 , 但是權力不只是垂直移轉 , 還包括橫向移轉 。
you might argue that the story , the history of civilizations , has been civilizations gathered around seas with the first ones around the mediterranean , the more recent ones in the ascendents of western power around the atlantic .	你可能會爭辯說 , 文明的歷史 , 人類的文明聚集在海上 , 和最先在地中海附近的文明 , 更近期 , 在西方大西洋上 , 西方靠近大西洋的力量的後裔 。
well it seems to me that we're now seeing a fundamental shift of power , broadly speaking , away from nations gathered around the atlantic [seaboard] to the nations gathered around the pacific rim .	在我看來 , 我們現在看到的是一個根本的權力轉移 , 廣泛來說 , 遠在大西洋的範圍內 , 遠在大西洋的範圍內 , 遠在太平洋的範圍內 。
now that begins with economic power , but that's the way it always begins .	從經濟實力開始 , 但這也是一直以來的 。
you already begin to see the development of foreign policies , the augmentation of military budgets occurring in the other growing powers in the world .	你已經開始看到外交政策的發展 , 強化軍事預算的發展 , 發生在世界上其他不斷成長的政策中 。
i think actually this is not so much a shift from the west to the east ; something different is happening .	我覺得這其實不是太大的改變 , 從西方移到東邊 , 而是不一樣的改變 。
my guess is , for what it's worth , is that the united states will remain the most powerful nation on earth for the next 10 years , 15 , but the context in which she holds her power has now radically altered ; it has radically changed .	我的猜測是 , 值得一提的是 , 美國在接下來的十年、十五年 , 仍然是世界上最強大的國家 , 但她掌握權力的環境現在已經徹底改變了 ; 這種情況已經徹底改變了 。
we are coming out of 50 years , most unusual years , of history in which we have had a totally monopolar world , in which every compass needle for or against has to be referenced by its position to washington a world bestrode by a single colossus .	五十年來 , 歷史上最不尋常的年份 , 人類的歷史中 , 有著完全壟斷的世界 , 每次指控針頭或反對 , 都需要依據它的位置來華盛頓這個世界 , 一個巨大的身分 。
but that's not a usual case in history .	但在歷史上 , 這並不是常見的情況 。
in fact , what's now emerging is the much more normal case of history .	事實上 , 現在正在發生的事 , 是歷史上更正常的例子 。
you're beginning to see the emergence of a multipolar world .	你開始看到一個多極化的世界出現了 。
up until now , the united states has been the dominant feature of our world .	到目前為止 , 美國一直是世界上最主要的特徵 。
they will remain the most powerful nation , but they will be the most powerful nation in an increasingly multipolar world .	他們會保持最強大的國家 , 但在越來越多的極端世界中 , 他們會是最強大的國家 。
and you begin to see the alternative centers of power building up in china , of course , though my own guess is that china's ascent to greatness is not smooth .	你會開始看到在中國建立權力的替代中心 , 當然 , 我自己的猜測是 , 中國是朝向偉大邁進的 , 不是平順的 。
it's going to be quite grumpy as china begins to democratize her society after liberalizing her economy .	這將會相當艱難 , 因為中國在自由經濟之後 , 開始民主化她的社會 。
but that's a subject of a different discussion .	但那是另一個主題 。
you see india , you see brazil .	你看到印度 , 巴西 。
you see increasingly that the world now looks actually , for us europeans , much more like europe in the 19th century .	逐漸地 , 逐漸地 , 對我們歐洲人來說 , 世界現在看起來越來越像十九世紀的歐洲 。
europe in the 19th century: a great british foreign secretary , lord canning , used to describe it as the " european concert of powers . "	十九世紀時歐洲:偉大的英國外交部長 , 大君.坎德 , 曾經將它描述成歐洲人的權力協議 。
there was a balance , a fivesided balance .	有一個平衡 , 一個五面八方的平衡 。
britain always played to the balance .	英國人總是在玩平衡 。
if paris got together with berlin , britain got together with vienna and rome to provide a counterbalance .	如果巴黎和柏林結合 , 英國和維也納和羅馬合作 , 提供了反平衡 。
now notice , in a period which is dominated by a monopolar world , you have fixed alliances nato , the warsaw pact .	請注意 , 在單極世界主導的時期中 , 有一個有固定聯盟的北約組織 , 戰場上的戰場 。
a fixed polarity of power means fixed alliances .	固定的權力的兩極性意味著結盟 。
but a multiple polarity of power means shifting and changing alliances .	但多重權力的兩極性 , 意味著改變和改變盟友 。
and that's the world we're coming into , in which we will increasingly see that our alliances are not fixed .	這就是我們正在進入的世界 , 在這個世界裡 , 我們會逐漸發現 , 我們的聯盟並沒有被修復過 。
canning , the great british foreign secretary once said , " britain has a common interest , but no common allies . "	偉大的英國外交部長坎寧曾經說: 「 英國有共同的興趣 , 但沒有共同的盟友 。 」
and we will see increasingly that even we in the west will reach out , have to reach out , beyond the cozy circle of the atlantic powers to make alliances with others if we want to get things done in the world .	即便在西方國家 , 我們也將看到越來越多的趨勢 , 必須向外伸出 , 超越大西洋的舒適圈 , 和他人結合 , 只要我們想要在世界上完成事情 。
note , that when we went into libya , it was not good enough for the west to do it alone ; we had to bring others in .	請注意 , 當我們進入利比亞時 , 西方的做法不夠好 ; 我們必須讓其他人進來 。
we had to bring , in this case , the arab league in .	我們必須把阿拉伯聯盟帶進來
my guess is iraq and afghanistan are the last times when the west has tried to do it themselves , and we haven't succeeded .	我的猜測是伊拉克和阿富汗是西方試圖做這件事時的最後幾次 , 而我們還沒有成功 。
my guess is that we're reaching the beginning of the end of 400 years i say 400 years because it's the end of the ottoman empire of the hegemony of western power , western institutions and western values .	我想 , 我們快要到達了400年底的開始 , 我說了400年後 , 這是西方國家權力、西方體制和西方價值觀的終點 。
you know , up until now , if the west got its act together , it could propose and dispose in every corner of the world .	你知道嗎 , 到目前為止 , 如果西方國家能同心協力 , 它可以在世界的每個角落提出和消除 。
but that's no longer true .	但這已經不是真的了 。
take the last financial crisis after the second world war .	以上一次的金融危機為例 , 第二次世界大戰之後 。
the west got together the bretton woods institution , world bank , international monetary fund the problem solved .	西方結合了布雷頓森林體制、世界銀行、國際貨幣基金組織──問題解決了 。
now we have to call in others .	現在我們必須在其他人打電話 。
now we have to create the g20 .	現在 , 我們必須創造二十國集團 。
now we have to reach beyond the cozy circle of our western friends .	現在我們要超越西方朋友的舒適圈 。
let me make a prediction for you , which is probably even more startling .	讓我來做個預測 , 這可能更令人吃驚 。
i suspect we are now reaching the end of 400 years when western power was enough .	我猜我們現在已經快要到達了400年的終點 , 當時西方的力量已經足夠了 。
people say to me , " the chinese , of course , they'll never get themselves involved in peacemaking , multilateral peacemaking around the world . "	人們對我說: 「 中國 , 當然 , 他們永遠不會涉及到調停 , 世界各地的多邊調停 。 」
oh yes ? why not ?	是嗎 ? 為什麼不呢 ?
how many chinese troops are serving under the blue beret , serving under the blue flag , serving under the u . n . command in the world today ?	有多少中國軍隊在藍色貝雷特的背後工作 , 正在聯合國指揮下服務 ?
how many americans ? 11 .	有多少美國人 ? 十一歲 。
what is the largest naval contingent tackling the issue of somali pirates ?	最大海軍陸戰隊在處理索馬利海盜的議題是什麼 ?
the chinese naval contingent .	中國海軍陸戰隊 。
of course they are , they are a mercantilist nation .	當然 , 他們是慈善主義的國家 。
they want to keep the sea lanes open .	他們想要讓海道保持開放
increasingly , we are going to have to do business with people with whom we do not share values , but with whom , for the moment , we share common interests .	漸漸地 , 我們將和我們不分享價值觀的人做生意 , 但在此刻 , 我們共同的興趣就在此 。
it's a whole new different way of looking at the world that is now emerging .	這是一種全新的觀點 , 一種嶄新的觀點 , 一種現在正在浮現的世界 。
and here's the third factor , which is totally different .	第三個因素 , 完全不同 。
today in our modern world , because of the internet , because of the kinds of things people have been talking about here , everything is connected to everything .	現今 , 在我們的現代世界裡 , 由於網路 , 人們在此所談到的事物 , 每件事都和網路有關 。
we are now interdependent .	我們現在是互相依賴的 。
we are now interlocked , as nations , as individuals , in a way which has never been the case before , never been the case before .	我們現在的關係 , 作為一個國家 , 作為一個國家 , 作為一個從未有過的國家 , 以前從未有過 。
the interrelationship of nations , well it's always existed .	國際關係的關係 , 一直以來都存在 。
diplomacy is about managing the interrelationship of nations .	外交是管理國家之間的相互關係
but now we are intimately locked together .	但現在我們卻被緊密地鎖在一起了 。
you get swine flu in mexico , it's a problem for charles de gaulle airport 24 hours later .	你在墨西哥得到了豬流感 , 這是24小時後 , 查爾斯•德高爾機場的問題 。
lehman brothers goes down , the whole lot collapses .	雷曼兄弟墮落了 , 整個社會都倒塌了 。
there are fires in the steppes of russia , food riots in africa .	俄羅斯大草原上有大火 , 非洲的食物暴動 。
we are all now deeply , deeply , deeply interconnected .	我們現在已深深地、深深地相連 。
and what that means is the idea of a nation state acting alone , not connected with others , not working with others , is no longer a viable proposition .	這意味著一個國家獨立行動 , 而不是與他人建立聯繫 , 與他人合作 , 不再是一個可行的主張 。
because the actions of a nation state are neither confined to itself , nor is it sufficient for the nation state itself to control its own territory , because the effects outside the nation state are now beginning to affect what happens inside them .	因為一個國家的行動並不局限於自己 , 也不夠讓國家自己去控制自己的領土 , 因為國外的影響已經開始影響他們的內心 。
i was a young soldier in the last of the small empire wars of britain .	我當時是個年輕的士兵 , 身在英國最後一個小型的內戰中 。
at that time , the defense of my country was about one thing and one thing only: how strong was our army , how strong was our air force , how strong was our navy and how strong were our allies .	那時 , 我的國家的防禦是一回事 , 只有一件事:我們的軍隊有多堅強 , 我們的空軍有多強 , 我們的海軍有多堅強 , 我們的盟友有多堅強 。
that was when the enemy was outside the walls .	敵人就在牆壁外 。
now the enemy is inside the walls .	敵人就在牆壁裡 。
now if i want to talk about the defense of my country , i have to speak to the minister of health because pandemic disease is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of agriculture because food security is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of industry because the fragility of our hitech infrastructure is now a point of attack for our enemies as we see from cyber warfare i have to speak to the minister of home affairs because who has entered my country , who lives in that terraced house in that inner city has a direct effect on what happens in my country as we in london saw in the 7/7 bombings .	現在 , 如果我想談談我的國家的防禦 , 我必須對國內的健康說話 , 因為傳染病對我的安全而言是個威脅 , 我必須對農業部說話 , 因為糧食安全對我的安全有威脅 , 我必須跟工業部談談 , 因為我們的希區基礎設施很脆弱 , 對於我們敵人的攻擊 , 如同我們從網路戰火中看到的一樣 , 我必須對農業說話 , 因為在我的家鄉 , 在我們看到的內部 , 在我們的家鄉 , 那些在我們的房子裡 , 那些在我們看到的內部 , 在我們的家鄉 , 會發生了什麼樣的內部 。
it's no longer the case that the security of a country is simply a matter for its soldiers and its ministry of defense .	一個國家的安全不再只是士兵和國防部的問題 。
it's its capacity to lock together its institutions .	它的能力是把其機構鎖在一起的能力 。
and this tells you something very important .	這告訴我們一件非常重要的事 。
it tells you that , in fact , our governments , vertically constructed , constructed on the economic model of the industrial revolution vertical hierarchy , specialization of tasks , command structures have got the wrong structures completely .	它告訴我們 , 事實上 , 我們的政府 , 垂直建構的 , 以工業革命的經濟模式為基礎 , 垂直的等級制度 , 任務的專業化 , 指揮結構 , 已經完全弄錯了結構 。
you in business know that the paradigm structure of our time , ladies and gentlemen , is the network .	在座的商人都知道我們這個時代的典範結構 , 女士們先生們 , 就是網路 。
it's your capacity to network that matters , both within your governments and externally .	它是你擁有網路的能力 , 不論在你的政府內部或外部都一樣 。
so here is ashdown's third law .	這是ashown的第三個法則 。
by the way , don't ask me about ashdown's first law and second law because i haven't invented those yet ; it always sounds better if there's a third law , doesn't it ?	順帶一提 , 別問我第一個法則和第二個法則 , 因為我還沒發明這些 ; 如果有第三個法則 , 聽起來會更好 , 對吧 ?
ashdown's third law is that in the modern age , where everything is connected to everything , the most important thing about what you can do is what you can do with others .	ashown的第三法則是 , 在現代 , 所有事物都和所有事物有關 , 對於你能做的事 , 最重要的是你能和他人做的事 。
the most important bit about your structure whether you're a government , whether you're an army regiment , whether you're a business is your docking points , your interconnectors , your capacity to network with others .	最重要的是 , 不論你是政府 , 不論你是軍人 , 不論你是企業家 , 不論你是做什麼事 , 不論你是做什麼事 , 你的連接者 , 你和他人有沒有連結的能力 。
you understand that in industry ; governments don't .	在工業界 , 政府不了解這一點 。
but now one final thing .	但最後一點 ,
if it is the case , ladies and gentlemen and it is that we are now locked together in a way that has never been quite the same before , then it's also the case that we share a destiny with each other .	如果是這樣的 , 各位先生女士 , 現在我們被鎖在一個以前從來沒有改變過的方式上 , 那麼 , 情況也是我們彼此有著相同命運的情況 。
suddenly and for the very first time , collective defense , the thing that has dominated us as the concept of securing our nations , is no longer enough .	突然間 , 也是第一次 , 集體防禦 , 那些主導我們國家安全的概念 , 已經不足了 。
it used to be the case that if my tribe was more powerful than their tribe , i was safe ; if my country was more powerful than their country , i was safe ; my alliance , like nato , was more powerful than their alliance , i was safe .	過去 , 如果我的部落比他們的部落更有權力 , 我很安全 ; 如果我的國家比他們的國家更強 , 我很安全 ; 我的聯盟 , 如北約 , 比他們的聯盟更有權力 , 我很安全 。
it is no longer the case .	這已經不是事實了 。
the advent of the interconnectedness and of the weapons of mass destruction means that , increasingly , i share a destiny with my enemy .	相互連結和大規模毀滅性武器的出現 , 越來越多 , 我和敵人有著共同的命運 。
when i was a diplomat negotiating the disarmament treaties with the soviet union in geneva in the 1970s , we succeeded because we understood we shared a destiny with them .	當我還是一名外交官在1970年代與日內瓦聯合會談判時我們成功了 , 因為我們知道我們和他們有共同的命運 。
collective security is not enough .	集體安全還不夠 。
peace has come to northern ireland because both sides realized that the zerosum game couldn't work .	和平來到北愛爾蘭 , 因為雙方都知道零和的遊戲行不通 。
they shared a destiny with their enemies .	他們與敵人共享一個命運 。
one of the great barriers to peace in the middle east is that both sides , both israel and , i think , the palestinians , do not understand that they share a collective destiny .	在中東 , 和平的大障礙之一是以色列和巴勒斯坦人不了解他們有共同的命運 。
and so suddenly , ladies and gentlemen , what has been the proposition of visionaries and poets down the ages becomes something we have to take seriously as a matter of public policy .	所以 , 突然間 , 各位先生女士 , 一直以來 , 對於有遠見的人和詩人的建議 , 變成了我們必須要認真看待的公共政策 。
i started with a poem , i'll end with one .	我從一首詩開始 , 以一首詩作結 。
the great poem of john donne's .	偉大的約翰•丹尼的詩 。
" send not for whom the bell tolls . "	「 不用吹鈴聲 。 」
the poem is called " no man is an island . "	這首詩叫做 " 沒有人是孤島 "
and it goes: " every man's death affected me , for i am involved in mankind , send not to ask for whom the bell tolls , it tolls for thee . "	它會說: 「 每一個人的死亡都會影響到我 , 因為我和人有關係 , 不要問鐘聲是誰 , 不用費力 。 」
for john donne , a recommendation of morality .	至於約翰•丹尼 , 道德的建議 。
for us , i think , part of the equation for our survival .	我認為 , 對我們而言 , 等於生存的一部分 。
to find the path to long life and health , dan buettner and team study the world's " blue zones , " communities whose elders live with vim and vigor to recordsetting age . at tedxtc , he shares the 9 common diet and lifestyle habits that keep them spry past age 100 .	為了找到長壽和健康的路徑 , danbuettner和團隊研究世界的 「 藍寶石 」 , 其老年人與vim和充滿活力的社群 , 一起生活在tedxtc上 , 他分享了九種常見的飲食和生活習慣 , 讓它們能在一百歲前生存 。
biology , culture , exploration , food , health , life , science	生物 , 文化 , 探索 , 食物 , 健康 , 生命 , 科學 ,
dan buettner: how to live to be 100+	danbuetner:如何活到一百歲
something called the danish twin study established that only about 10 percent of how long the average person lives , within certain biological limits , is dictated by our genes .	有個叫丹麥雙胞胎的研究發現 , 在某些生物限制下 , 平均壽命只有10% 。
the other 90 percent is dictated by our lifestyle .	另外百分之九十是以我們的生活方式決定的 。
so the premise of blue zones: if we can find the optimal lifestyle of longevity we can come up with a de facto formula for longevity .	所以 , 藍色區塊的前提是:如果我們能找到長壽的最佳生活方式 , 我們就能想出一個實際的長壽公式 。
but if you ask the average american what the optimal formula of longevity is , they probably couldn't tell you .	但如果你問一般美國人 , 壽命最佳的公式是什麼 ? 他們可能沒辦法告訴你 。
they've probably heard of the south beach diet , or the atkins diet .	他們可能聽說過南海灘的飲食 , 或飲食 。
you have the usda food pyramid .	你有美國農業部的食物金字塔 。
there is what oprah tells us .	歐普拉告訴我們的是:
there is what doctor oz tells us .	奧茲醫生告訴我們 ,
the fact of the matter is there is a lot of confusion around what really helps us live longer better .	事實上 , 有很多困惑 , 困惑了我們真正的壽命更長 。
should you be running marathons or doing yoga ?	你要跑馬拉松還是做瑜珈 ?
should you eat organic meats or should you be eating tofu ?	你應該吃有機肉還是你應該吃豆腐 ?
when it comes to supplements , should you be taking them ?	談到營養問題 , 你該吃嗎 ?
how about these hormones or resveratrol ?	那麼荷爾蒙或反物質的荷爾蒙呢 ?
and does purpose play into it ?	目的是要在裡面玩嗎 ?
spirituality ? and how about how we socialize ?	精神層面呢 ? 那我們如何社交呢 ?
well , our approach to finding longevity was to team up with national geographic , and the national institute on aging , to find the four demographically confirmed areas that are geographically defined .	我們研究長壽的方法是與國家地理雜誌以及國家老化研究院合作 , 找出四個人口確認地理界限的地區 。
and then bring a team of experts in there to methodically go through exactly what these people do , to distill down the crosscultural distillation .	然後請一群專家加入一群專家 , 透過這些人的所作所為 , 來提煉這些跨文化的精華 。
and at the end of this i'm going to tell you what that distillation is .	到最後 , 我要告訴各位那精華是什麼 。
but first i'd like to debunk some common myths when it comes to longevity .	但首先 , 關於長壽 , 我想要揭開一些常見的迷思 。
and the first myth is if you try really hard you can live to be 100 .	第一個迷思是 , 如果你真的很努力 , 你可以活到一百歲 。
the problem is , only about one out of 5 , 000 people in america live to be 100 .	問題是 , 在美國 , 大約五千人中只有一個會活到一百歲 。
your chances are very low .	你的機率非常低 。
even though it's the fastest growing demographic in america , it's hard to reach 100 .	即使是美國人口成長最快的地區 , 很難達到一百歲 。
the problem is that we're not programmed for longevity .	問題是我們不是為了長壽而設計的 。
we are programmed for something called procreative success .	我們被設計為一種叫做 「 行進成功 」 的東西 。
i love that word .	我很喜歡這個詞 。
it reminds me of my college days .	這讓我想起了我的大學時期 。
biologists term procreative success to mean the age where you have children and then another generation , the age when your children have children .	生物學家稱之為 " 複製成功 " 意思是你生育下一代的年齡 。 意思是生育後代的年齡 。
after that the effect of evolution completely dissipates .	演化的效果完全消失了 。
if you're a mammal , if you're a rat or an elephant , or a human , in between , it's the same story .	如果你是哺乳類 , 如果你是隻老鼠 , 或大象 , 或人 , 在兩者間 , 都是一樣的 。
so to make it to age 100 , you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle , you also have to have won the genetic lottery .	所以 , 若要活到一百歲 , 你不僅要有很好的生活方式 , 你還必須贏得基因樂透 。
the second myth is , there are treatments that can help slow , reverse , or even stop aging .	第二個迷思是 , 有些治療可以幫助緩慢、反轉 , 甚至停止老化 。
when you think of it , there is 99 things that can age us .	仔細想想 , 有99件事會讓我們老化 。
deprive your brain of oxygen for just a few minutes , those brain cells die , they never come back .	只要幾分鐘的時間 , 那些腦細胞就會死掉 , 永遠不會回來 。
play tennis too hard , on your knees , ruin your cartilage , the cartilage never comes back .	打網球太過努力 , 膝蓋上毀了你的軟骨 , 軟骨永遠不會回來 。
our arteries can clog . our brains can gunk up with plaque , and we can get alzheimer's .	我們的動脈可以堵塞 , 我們的大腦可以用血漿塞住 , 我們可以得到阿茲海默症 。
there is just too many things to go wrong .	有太多事情會出錯 。
our bodies have 35 trillion cells , trillion with a " t . " we're talking national debt numbers here .	我們的身體有三十五兆個細胞 , 有一兆個 「 t 」 的數量 , 我們在這裡談的是國債的數量 。
those cells turn themselves over once every eight years .	每八年 , 這些細胞就會自動轉動一次 。
and every time they turn themselves over there is some damage . and that damage builds up .	每當他們翻過身 , 就會產生一些損害 , 這種損害就會增加 。
and it builds up exponentially .	而且它以指數型態來建造 。
it's a little bit like the days when we all had beatles albums or eagles albums and we'd make a copy of that on a cassette tape , and let our friends copy that cassette tape , and pretty soon , with successive generations that tape sounds like garbage .	這有點像我們都有披頭四或老鷹專輯的日子 , 我們會在錄音帶上複製它 , 讓朋友複製那錄音帶 , 很快地 , 世代代以來錄音帶聽起來很像垃圾 。
well , the same things happen to our cells .	同樣的事情也發生在我們的細胞身上 。
that's why a 65yearold person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12yearold person .	這就是為什麼一個65歲的人老化的速度比一個12歲的人快了125倍 。
so , if there is nothing you can do to slow your aging or stop your aging , what am i doing here ?	所以 , 如果沒有辦法減緩老化或停止老化 , 我在這裡幹嘛 ?
well , the fact of the matter is the best science tells us that the capacity of the human body , my body , your body , is about 90 years , a little bit more for women .	嗯 , 事實上 , 最好的科學告訴我們人體的能力 , 我的身體 , 你的身體 , 大約有九十年的時間 , 女性的數量稍微多一點 。
but life expectancy in this country is only 78 .	但在美國 , 平均壽命只有78歲 。
so somewhere along the line , we're leaving about 12 good years on the table .	沿著這條線的某處 , 我們將在那條桌子上留下十二年美好的年份 。
these are years that we could get .	這些年來 , 我們可能可以做到 。
and research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease , heart disease , cancer and diabetes .	研究顯示 , 多年來大多沒有慢性病、心臟病、癌症和糖尿病 。
we think the best way to get these missing years is to look at the cultures around the world that are actually experiencing them , areas where people are living to age 100 at rates up to 10 times greater than we are , areas where the life expectancy is an extra dozen years , the rate of middle age mortality is a fraction of what it is in this country .	我們認為獲得這些消失的最佳方法就是看看世界上那些實際體驗到他們的文化 , 那些人們活到一百歲的地區比我們多出十倍的比率 , 那些預期壽命多出十幾歲 , 中年死亡率是這個國家的一小部分 。
we found our first blue zone about 125 miles off the coast of italy , on the island of sardinia .	我們發現我們的第一個藍色地帶 , 離義大利海岸125英里遠 , 位在薩丁尼亞島上 。
and not the entire island , the island is about 1 . 4 million people , but only up in the highlands , an area called the nuoro province .	不是整個島 , 整個島約有一百四十萬人 , 只有在高地 , 一個叫做努奧羅省的地方 。
and here we have this area where men live the longest , about 10 times more centenarians than we have here in america .	在這裡 , 我們有男人活得最長壽的地區 , 大約10倍於美國 。
and this is a place where people not only reach age 100 , they do so with extraordinary vigor .	這個地方的人們不僅活到一百歲 , 他們還帶著非凡的活力去做 。
places where 102 year olds still ride their bike to work , chop wood , and can beat a guy 60 years younger than them .	一百零二歲的老人仍然騎腳踏車去上班、砍柴 , 還能打敗比他們年輕六十歲的人 。
their history actually goes back to about the time of christ .	他們的歷史回溯到基督的時代 。
it's actually a bronze age culture that's been isolated .	它實際上是一個孤立的青銅文化 。
because the land is so infertile , they largely are shepherds , which occasions regular , lowintensity physical activity .	因為土地是如此地地受害 , 主要是牧羊人 , 經常是低密度的生理活動 。
their diet is mostly plantbased , accentuated with foods that they can carry into the fields .	他們的飲食主要是以植物為基礎的 , 以他們能帶到田裡的食物為中心 。
they came up with an unleavened whole wheat bread called carta musica made out of durum wheat , a type of cheese made from grassfed animals so the cheese is high in omega3 fatty acids instead of omega6 fatty acids from cornfed animals , and a type of wine that has three times the level of polyphenols than any known wine in the world .	他們想出了一種未經開發的全麥麵包 , 叫做卡塔音樂 , 用小麥做成的 , 一種來自青草餵食的動物的乳酪 , 這種乳酪的含量在omega-3脂肪酸中 , 而不是omega-6脂肪酸 , 來自玉米餵食的動物 , 這種酒的濃度比世界上任何酒都還高三倍 。
but the real secret i think lies more in the way that they organize their society .	但真正的秘密我認為是他們組織社會的方式 。
and one of the most salient elements of the sardinian society is how they treat older people .	薩丁尼亞社會最突出的元素之一就是他們對待老人的方式 。
you ever notice here in america , social equity seems to peak at about age 24 ?	你有沒有注意到在美國社會平等在24歲時達到高峰 ?
just look at the advertisements .	只要看看廣告 。
here in sardinia , the older you get the more equity you have , the more wisdom you're celebrated for .	在薩丁尼亞 , 年紀越長 , 你就越有公平 , 你就越有智慧 。
you go into the bars in sardinia , instead of seeing the sports illustrated swimsuit calendar , you see the centenarian of the month calendar .	你走進薩丁尼亞的酒吧 , 沒有看過體育畫出來的泳裝日曆 , 而是看到百歲人瑞的月曆 。
this , as it turns out , is not only good for your aging parents to keep them close to the family it imparts about four to six years of extra life expectancy research shows it's also good for the children of those families , who have lower rates of mortality and lower rates of disease .	事實證明 , 這並不只對年齡老化的父母親有益於讓他們的家人更親近還會讓他們的壽命延長四到六年研究顯示這對那些家庭有益的孩子而言 , 他們的死亡率較低 , 罹病率也較低 。
that's called the grandmother effect .	這叫做祖母效應 。
we found our second blue zone on the other side of the planet , about 800 miles south of tokyo , on the archipelago of okinawa .	我們在地球的另一端發現了第二個藍色區域 , 位在東京的南方 , 位在琉球河的阿奇特島上 。
okinawa is actually 161 small islands .	琉球其實是161個小島嶼 。
and in the northern part of the main island , this is ground zero for world longevity .	主島的北部是世界長壽的原點
this is a place where the oldest living female population is found .	這個地方發現了最古老的女性族群 。
it's a place where people have the longest disabilityfree life expectancy in the world .	這裡的人有世界上最長久的殘疾人士預期壽命 。
they have what we want .	他們擁有我們想要的 。
they live a long time , and tend to die in their sleep , very quickly , and often , i can tell you , after sex .	他們活很長的時間 , 通常在他們的睡夢中死亡 , 非常快 , 我可以告訴你 , 在性過後 。
they live about seven good years longer than the average american .	他們比一般美國人多活七年 。
five times as many centenarians as we have in america .	在美國 , 百歲人瑞的人數是五倍 。
one fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer , big killers here in america .	五分之一的結腸癌和乳癌的機率 , 在美國這裡的大殺手 。
and one sixth the rate of cardiovascular disease .	心血管疾病的比率是六分之一 。
and the fact that this culture has yielded these numbers suggests strongly they have something to teach us .	事實上 , 這種文化讓這些數字得以確切地表示 , 他們有東西可以教我們 。
what do they do ?	他們會怎麼做 ?
once again , a plantbased diet , full of vegetables with lots of color in them .	同樣地 , 以植物為基礎的飲食 , 充滿了蔬菜 , 有許多顏色 。
and they eat about eight times as much tofu as americans do .	他們吃的食物比美國人多八倍 。
more significant than what they eat is how they eat it .	比起他們所吃的食物 , 更重要的是他們如何吃
they have all kinds of little strategies to keep from overeating , which , as you know , is a big problem here in america .	他們有各式各樣的小策略來避免過食這在美國是個大問題
a few of the strategies we observed: they eat off of smaller plates , so they tend to eat fewer calories at every sitting .	我們觀察到的一些策略:它們會從小盤子裡吃掉 , 所以每坐著就吃少一點卡路里 。
instead of serving family style , where you can sort of mindlessly eat as you're talking , they serve at the counter , put the food away , and then bring it to the table .	與其提供家庭風格 , 你可以隨時隨意地吃東西 , 不如在櫃台上提供食物 , 再把食物帶到桌上 。
they also have a 3 , 000yearold adage , which i think is the greatest sort of diet suggestion ever invented .	他們還有一個三千年歷史的格言 , 我認為這是有史以來最棒的飲食建議 。
it was invented by confucius .	它是由孔子所發明的 。
and that diet is known as the hara , hatchi , bu diet .	這種飲食被稱為 「 哈拉、哈奇、飢荒 」 。
it's simply a little saying these people say before their meal to remind them to stop eating when their stomach is [80] percent full .	簡單來說 , 這些人在一餐前會說 , 提醒他們在80%的胃裡停止吃飯 。
it takes about a half hour for that full feeling to travel from your belly to your brain .	要花上半小時 , 才能讓完整的感覺從肚子傳到你的大腦 。
and by remembering to stop at 80 percent it helps keep you from doing that very thing .	記住要在80%停下來 , 這樣做會幫助你不去做這件事 。
but , like sardinia , okinawa has a few social constructs that we can associate with longevity .	但 , 和薩丁尼亞一樣 , 琉球有幾個社會建構 , 我們可以把長壽聯想在一起 。
we know that isolation kills .	我們知道隔離會造成死亡 。
fifteen years ago , the average american had three good friends .	十五年前 , 一般美國人有三個好朋友 。
we're down to one and half right now .	現在我們降到1.5% 。
if you were lucky enough to be born in okinawa , you were born into a system where you automatically have a half a dozen friends with whom you travel through life .	如果你夠幸運生於俄吉納瓦 , 你出生在一個系統 , 自動和十幾個朋友共處 , 他們一生都在這個系統中 。
they call it a moai . and if you're in a moai you're expected to share the bounty if you encounter luck , and if things go bad , child gets sick , parent dies , you always have somebody who has your back .	他們稱之為moai 。 如果你在moai , 如果你碰到運氣不好 , 你被期待要分享這本書 。 如果壞事發生了 , 孩子生病了 , 家長死了 , 你總是有人支持你 。
this particular moai , these five ladies have been together for 97 years .	這個特別的moai , 這五位女士已經在一起97年了 。
their average age is 102 .	他們的平均年齡是102歲 。
typically in america we've divided our adult life up into two sections .	一般來說 , 在美國我們已經把成人的生活分成兩部分 。
there is our work life , where we're productive .	我們的工作是有生產力的 。
and then one day , boom , we retire .	然後有一天 , 突然間 , 我們退休了 。
and typically that has meant retiring to the easy chair , or going down to arizona to play golf .	一般來說 , 這意味著休息在輕鬆的椅子上 , 或下到亞利桑那州去打高爾夫 。
in the okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement .	在琉球語裡甚至沒有退休的字眼
instead there is one word that imbues your entire life , and that word is " ikigai . "	取而代之 , 有一個詞語侵犯了你的一生 , 那個詞就是 「 ikigai 」 。
and , roughly translated , it means " the reason for which you wake up in the morning . "	大概翻譯成 「 早上醒來的理由 」
for this 102yearold karate master , his ikigai was carrying forth this martial art .	對於這位一百零二歲的凱特•馬斯特來說 , 他的生平是帶著這種火星藝術的 。
for this hundredyearold fisherman it was continuing to catch fish for his family three times a week .	對這位百歲的漁夫來說 , 每週捕魚三次 。
and this is a question . the national institute on aging actually gave us a questionnaire to give these centenarians .	這是個問題 。 國家老化研究院實際上給了我們一個問卷 , 給這些百歲人瑞 。
and one of the questions , they were very culturally astute , the people who put the questionnaire .	其中一個問題是 , 他們在文化上很有文化上的進步 , 那些提出問卷的人 。
one of the questions was , " what is your ikigai ? "	其中一個問題是: 「 你的ikii是什麼 ? 」
they instantly knew why they woke up in the morning .	他們馬上就知道為什麼早上醒來 。
for this 102 year old woman , her ikigai was simply her greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	對於這一百零二歲的老女人來說 , 她的生存價值只是她的曾曾曾孫女 。
two girls separated in age by 101 and a half years .	兩個女孩在一百一十一歲時分離成兩人 。
and i asked her what it felt like to hold a greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	我問她感覺如何抱著一個曾曾曾孫女的曾曾孫女 。
and she put her head back and she said , " it feels like leaping into heaven . "	她把她的頭放回來 , 她說: 「 這感覺像是跳上天堂 。 」
i thought that was a wonderful thought .	我覺得那是個很棒的想法 。
my editor at geographic wanted me to find america's blue zone .	我的地理雜誌的編輯要我找到美國的藍寶地 。
and for a while we looked on the prairies of minnesota , where actually there is a very high proportion of centenarians .	有一陣子 , 我們研究明尼蘇達的草原 , 那裡有非常高比例的百歲人瑞 。
but that's because all the young people left .	但那是因為所有的年輕人都離開了 。
so , we turned to the data again .	所以 , 我們又再次轉向資料 。
and we found america's longestlived population among the seventhday adventists concentrated in and around loma linda , california .	我們發現 , 美國最長壽的人口是加州的第七天冒險家 , 集中在加州的羅馬林達附近 。
adventists are conservative methodists .	創新者是保守的方法論者 。
they celebrate their sabbath from sunset on friday till sunset on saturday .	他們慶祝安息日 , 從星期五日落到星期六日落為止 。
a " 24hour sanctuary in time , " they call it .	他們稱之為 「 二十四小時的保護區 」 。
and they follow five little habits that conveys to them extraordinary longevity , comparatively speaking .	他們遵循五個小習慣 , 向他們傳達了非凡的長壽 , 相對的 , 相對來說 , 相對來說 。
in america here , life expectancy for the average woman is 80 .	在美國 , 平均女性的平均壽命是80歲 。
but for an adventist woman , their life expectancy is 89 .	但對於一個進化論的女性來說 , 她們的預期壽命是89 。
and the difference is even more pronounced among men , who are expected to live about 11 years longer than their american counterparts .	男性之間的差別更為明顯 , 預期男性的壽命比美國相對的多了11年 。
now , this is a study that followed about 70 , 000 people for 30 years .	這是一項研究追蹤了七萬人三十年 。
sterling study . and i think it supremely illustrates the premise of this blue zone project .	史特林的研究 。 我認為它最終闡明了這個藍寶石計畫的前提 。
this is a heterogeneous community .	這是個異型的社區 。
it's white , black , hispanic , asian .	白人、黑人、西班牙裔、亞洲人 。
the only thing that they have in common are a set of very small lifestyle habits that they follow ritualistically for most of their lives .	他們唯一共通的共通點 , 就是一系列非常小的生活習慣 , 大部分時間都遵循儀式的習慣 。
they take their diet directly from the bible .	他們直接從聖經中抽取他們的飲食 。
genesis: chapter one , verse [29] , where god talks about legumes and seeds , and on one more stanza about green plants , ostensibly missing is meat .	創世紀:第一章 , 詩詞29年 , 上帝談到豆子和種子 , 再一次談到綠色植物 , 顯然缺少肉品 。
they take this sanctuary in time very serious .	他們非常認真地看待這個保護區 。
for 24 hours every week , no matter how busy they are , how stressed out they are at work , where the kids need to be driven , they stop everything and they focus on their god , their social network , and then , hardwired right in the religion , are nature walks .	每週24小時 , 不管有多忙 , 不管在工作上有多忙 , 孩子在工作上有多大的壓力 , 都得停止一切 , 他們把焦點放在他們的神、他們的社交網路上 , 接著 , 在宗教中 , 天性就是走在大自然的路上 。
and the power of this is not that it's done occasionally , the power is it's done every week for a lifetime .	這股力量並不是說它偶爾會失敗 , 它的力量是每週一次的發電 。
none of it's hard . none of it costs money .	一點都不難 , 沒有一分錢 。
adventists also tend to hang out with other adventists .	進步主義者也常和其他的進步主義者在一起 。
so , if you go to an adventist's party you don't see people swilling jim beam or rolling a joint .	所以 , 如果你去參加一個基督復臨派的 , 你不會看到人們在揮舞jimbeam或推出一個關節 。
instead they're talking about their next nature walk , exchanging recipes , and yes , they pray .	相反地 , 他們在談他們的下一個自然步行、交換食譜 , 沒錯 , 他們會祈禱 。
but they influence each other in profound and measurable ways .	但它們以非常深刻、明顯的方式影響彼此 。
this is a culture that has yielded ellsworth whareham .	這種文化讓埃爾斯沃•偉爾斯•偉姆得以康復 。
ellsworth whareham is 97 years old .	埃爾斯沃•偉倫九十七歲 。
he's a multimillionaire , yet when a contractor wanted 6 , 000 dollars to build a privacy fence , he said , " for that kind of money i'll do it myself . "	他是千萬富翁 , 但當一個承包商想要6 , 000美元來建造一個隱私柵欄時 , 他說: 「 為了這類的錢 , 我自己自己就自己去做 。 」
so for the next three days he was out shoveling cement , and hauling poles around .	接下來的三天 , 他出去吃掉了水泥 , 還拖著兩極 。
and predictably , perhaps , on the fourth day he ended up in the operating room .	可想而知 , 也許在第四天 , 他最後到了手術室 。
but not as the guy on the table ; the guy doing openheart surgery .	但不是桌上的那個人 , 而是開心手術的那個人 。
at 97 he still does 20 openheart surgeries every month .	九十七歲時 , 他每個月還做二十次開心手術 。
ed rawlings , 103 years old now , an active cowboy , starts his morning with a swim .	艾德•羅林斯 , 一百零三歲 , 一個活躍的牛仔 , 早上開始游泳 。
and on weekends he likes to put on the boards , throw up rooster tails .	在週末 , 他喜歡踏上衝浪板 , 扔掉粗糙的尾巴 。
her grandson actually lives in the twin cities here .	她的孫子其實住在雙子星城市裡 。
she starts her day with lifting weights .	她每天從舉重的開始 。
she rides her bicycle .	她騎著腳踏車 。
and then she gets in her rootbeer colored 1994 cadillac seville , and tears down the san bernardino freeway , where she still volunteers for seven different organizations .	然後她在1994年的羅托貝拉克•塞維爾 , 把聖貝納迪納迪諾•高速公路拆了 , 當時她仍是七個不同的組織的志工 。
i've been on 19 hardcore expeditions .	我曾有19個偉大的探險 。
i'm probably the only person you'll ever meet who rode his bicycle across the sahara desert without sunscreen .	我大概是你唯一會遇到的人在撒哈拉沙漠上騎腳踏車橫越撒哈拉沙漠 , 沒有防曬霜 。
but i'll tell you , there is no adventure more harrowing than riding shotgun with marge deton .	但是我要告訴你們 , 沒有任何探險比坐瑪莉•戴克斯頓的槍擊案更加恐怖 。
" a stranger is a friend i haven't met yet ! " she'd say to me .	「 陌生人是我還沒見過的朋友 ! 」 她會對我說 。
so , what are the common denominators in these three cultures ?	在這三種文化中 , 哪些共同點呢 ?
what are the things that they all do ?	他們所做的是什麼 ?
and we managed to boil it down to nine .	我們成功地將它煮沸到九個 。
in fact we've done two more blue zone expeditions since this and these common denominators hold true .	事實上我們已經完成了兩個藍寶地探險從這之後 , 這些共同的探險家也得到了真實的結果 。
and the first one , and i'm about to utter a heresy here , none of them exercise , at least the way we think of exercise .	第一 , 我即將要在這裡講一個 , 沒有一個是運動 , 至少我們對運動的看法 。
instead , they set up their lives so that they are constantly nudged into physical activity .	取而代之 , 他們設定了自己的生活 , 使他們持續地進入身體的活動中 。
these 100yearold okinawan women are getting up and down off the ground , they sit on the floor , 30 or 40 times a day .	這些百歲的琉球女人每天起床 , 坐在地上 , 一天三十到四十次 。
sardinians live in vertical houses , up and down the stairs .	薩丁尼亞人住在垂直的房子裡 , 上下樓梯 。
every trip to the store , or to church or to a friend's house occasions a walk .	每次去商店 , 或去教堂 , 或去朋友家 , 都會有一個散步 。
they don't have any conveniences .	他們沒有任何便利 。
there is not a button to push to do yard work or house work .	沒有按鈕可以按住院子工作或家庭工作 。
if they want to mix up a cake , they're doing it by hand .	如果他們想要混合蛋糕 , 他們是手工製作的 。
that burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does .	燃燒的卡路里和跑步機一樣多 。
when they do do intentional physical activity , it's the things they enjoy . they tend to walk , the only proven way to stave off cognitive decline , and they all tend to have a garden .	當他們有意圖去做身體活動時 , 這是他們喜歡的東西 。 他們傾向於走路 , 唯一能證明如何阻止認知的衰退的方法 , 他們全都傾向有一個花園 。
they know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook .	他們知道如何以正確的方式來生活 , 讓他們有正確的人生觀 。
each of these cultures take time to downshift .	每個文化都需要時間來縮減 。
the sardinians pray . the seventhday adventists pray .	薩丁尼亞人祈禱 , 第七天的冒險家祈禱 。
the okinawans have this ancestor veneration .	琉球人有這種祖先的復原者 。
but when you're in a hurry or stressed out , that triggers something called the inflammatory response , which is associated with everything from alzheimer's disease to cardiovascular disease .	但當你趕快或有壓力時 , 會引發一種叫 「 發炎反應 」 的反應 , 這種反應和所有阿茲海默症到心血管疾病有關 。
when you slow down for 15 minutes a day you turn that inflammatory state into a more antiinflammatory state .	當你每天慢下來15分鐘 , 你就會把發炎的狀態變成更反炎的狀態 。
they have vocabulary for sense of purpose , ikigai , like the okinawans .	牠們有詞彙來表達目的的地、ikigai , 像是琉球人 。
you know the two most dangerous years in your life are the year you're born , because of infant mortality , and the year you retire .	你知道你生命中最危險的兩年是你出生的一年 , 因為嬰兒死亡率 , 和退休那年 。
these people know their sense of purpose , and they activate in their life , that's worth about seven years of extra life expectancy .	這些人知道自己的使命感 , 他們在生活中活躍 , 價值大約七年的額外預期壽命 。
there's no longevity diet .	沒有長壽的飲食 。
instead , these people drink a little bit every day , not a hard sell to the american population .	相反地 , 這些人每天稍微喝點飲料 , 對美國人不好賣 。
they tend to eat a plantbased diet .	他們往往會吃以植物為基礎的飲食 。
doesn't mean they don't eat meat , but lots of beans and nuts .	不是說牠們不吃肉 , 而是吃很多豆子和堅果 。
and they have strategies to keep from overeating , little things that nudge them away from the table at the right time .	他們有策略來避免過食 , 有些小東西在對的時間點會讓他們遠離餐桌 。
and then the foundation of all this is how they connect .	所有這些的基礎是他們如何連結 。
they put their families first , take care of their children and their aging parents .	他們把家人放在第一 , 照顧他們的孩子和年邁的父母 。
they all tend to belong to a faithbased community , which is worth between four and 14 extra years of life expectancy if you do it four times a month .	他們全部都屬於一個以信仰為基礎的社群 , 值得花上四到十四年的預期壽命 , 如果你一個月要做四次 。
and the biggest thing here is they also belong to the right tribe .	最重要的是他們也屬於對的部落 。
they were either born into or they proactively surrounded themselves with the right people .	他們要麼出生 , 要麼他們積極地和對的人在一起 。
we know from the framingham studies , that if your three best friends are obese there is a 50 percent better chance that you'll be overweight .	我們從佛明翰的研究得知如果三個最好的朋友都過胖 , 有一半的機率會讓你過胖
so , if you hang out with unhealthy people , that's going to have a measurable impact over time .	所以 , 如果你和不健康的人混在一起 , 隨著時間的推移 , 會有很顯著的影響 。
instead , if your friend's idea of recreation is physical activity , bowling , or playing hockey , biking or gardening , if your friends drink a little , but not too much , and they eat right , and they're engaged , and they're trusting and trustworthy , that is going to have the biggest impact over time .	相反地 , 如果你的朋友對休閒活動有興趣 , 保齡 , 或打曲棍球、騎腳踏車或園藝 , 如果你的朋友喝一點酒 , 不多 , 他們吃對 , 他們很投入 , 且很信任 , 且很值得信任 , 隨著時間過去 , 會產生最大的影響 。
diets don't work . no diet in the history of the world has ever worked for more than two percent of the population .	減肥是行不通的 , 世上沒有飲食是為了超過百分之二的人口而工作的 。
exercise programs usually start in january ; they're usually done by october .	運動計劃通常一月開始 , 通常是十月份完成的 。
when it comes to longevity there is no short term fix in a pill or anything else .	談到長壽 , 藥丸或任何其他藥丸都沒有短暫的修正條款 。
but when you think about it , your friends are longterm adventures , and therefore , perhaps the most significant thing you can do to add more years to your life , and life to your years . thank you very much .	但當你仔細想想 , 你的朋友是長期的冒險 , 因此 , 也許 , 你能做的最重要的事 , 讓你能在生命中加入更多年 。 非常謝謝你 。
ink that conducts electricity ; a window that turns from clear to opaque at the flip of a switch ; a jelly that makes music . all this stuff exists , and catarina mota says: it's time to play with it . mota leads us on a tour of surprising and cool new materials , and suggests that the way we'll figure out what they're good for is to experiment , tinker and have fun .	傳導電力的那扇窗戶 , 從清晰變成不透明的窗戶 , 轉換成開關 ; 製成音樂的果實 , 所有這類東西的存在 , 卡達娜•莫塔說:該是時候玩它了 。 莫塔帶領我們參觀一趟驚喜和酷炫的新材料 , 建議我們找出方法 , 做好實驗的方式 , tinker和玩樂 。
creativity , design , technology	創造力、設計、科技 。
catarina mota: play with smart materials	卡塔琳娜•莫塔:玩聰明的材料 。
i have a friend in portugal whose grandfather built a vehicle out of a bicycle and a washing machine so he could transport his family .	我在葡萄牙有位朋友 , 他的祖父從腳踏車和洗衣機建造了一輛車 , 這樣他才能運送他的家人 。
he did it because he couldn't afford a car , but also because he knew how to build one .	他之所以這麼做 , 是因為他負擔不起車子 , 也因為他知道如何建造一輛車 。
there was a time when we understood how things worked and how they were made , so we could build and repair them , or at the very least make informed decisions about what to buy .	曾經 , 我們知道事情是如何運作的 , 如何做出來的 , 這樣我們就可以建立和修復 , 或者至少能做出有根據的決定 , 決定要買什麼 。
many of these doityourself practices were lost in the second half of the 20th century .	在20世紀的後半葉 , 許多這些自家的實踐已經消失了 。
but now , the maker community and the opensource model are bringing this kind of knowledge about how things work and what they're made of back into our lives , and i believe we need to take them to the next level , to the components things are made of .	但現在 , 自造者和開放原始碼的社群 , 正在把這些知識帶回我們的生活中 , 我相信我們需要把這些知識帶到下一個階段 , 到組成的零件上 。
for the most part , we still know what traditional materials like paper and textiles are made of and how they are produced .	大部分的時候 , 我們仍然知道紙和紡織品的傳統材料是由什麼製成的 , 以及它們是如何被生產出來的 。
but now we have these amazing , futuristic composites plastics that change shape , paints that conduct electricity , pigments that change color , fabrics that light up .	但現在我們有這些驚人、未來化合物 , 會改變形狀、會導電的油漆、會改變顏料的顏料、會發光的布料 。
let me show you some examples .	讓我給你們看一些例子 。
so conductive ink allows us to paint circuits instead of using the traditional printed circuit boards or wires .	導電油墨讓我們能用傳統印刷電路或電線來繪製電路 。
in the case of this little example i'm holding , we used it to create a touch sensor that reacts to my skin by turning on this little light .	在我手中拿著的這個小小的例子中 , 我們用它來創造一個觸控感應器 , 透過打開這個小光來對我的皮膚做出反應 。
conductive ink has been used by artists , but recent developments indicate that we will soon be able to use it in laser printers and pens .	藝術家曾用過導電油墨 , 但近期的發展顯示 , 我們很快就能夠把它用在雷射印表機和筆記上 。
and this is a sheet of acrylic infused with colorless lightdiffusing particles .	這是一片丙烯酸鹽粒子 , 充滿了無顏色的輕微粒子 。
what this means is that , while regular acrylic only diffuses light around the edges , this one illuminates across the entire surface when i turn on the lights around it .	這意味著 , 雖然一般的丙胺酸纖維只會在邊緣散射光線 , 但當我打開燈時 , 整個表面都會發光 。
two of the known applications for this material include interior design and multitouch systems .	這種材料的其中兩個應用程式包括內部設計和多點觸控系統 。
and thermochromic pigments change color at a given temperature .	而熱染色的顏料在特定溫度下會改變顏色 。
so i'm going to place this on a hot plate that is set to a temperature only slightly higher than ambient and you can see what happens .	把這個放到一個熱盤上 , 溫度會比環境高一點點 , 你可以看到會發生什麼事 。
so one of the principle applications for this material is , amongst other things , in baby bottles , so it indicates when the contents are cool enough to drink .	所以 , 這種材料的其中一個原則是 , 在嬰兒奶瓶中 , 嬰兒奶瓶中 , 表示內容物是否夠酷 , 可以喝 。
so these are just a few of what are commonly known as smart materials .	這些只是少數我們所知的智慧型材料 。
in a few years , they will be in many of the objects and technologies we use on a daily basis .	幾年內 , 它們會出現在我們每天使用的許多物品和技術中 。
we may not yet have the flying cars science fiction promised us , but we can have walls that change color depending on temperature , keyboards that roll up , and windows that become opaque at the flick of a switch .	我們可能還沒有飛天車在科幻小說中承諾了 , 但我們可以有牆壁 , 可以改變顏色 , 依溫度 , 鍵盤會滾動 , 窗戶會變成不透明的開關 。
so i'm a social scientist by training , so why am i here today talking about smart materials ?	所以 , 我是個社會科學家 , 所以 , 我今天來這裡的目的就是要談智慧型材料 ?
well first of all , because i am a maker .	首先 , 因為我是個製造家 。
i'm curious about how things work and how they are made , but also because i believe we should have a deeper understanding of the components that make up our world , and right now , we don't know enough about these hightech composites our future will be made of .	我很好奇事物是如何運作的 , 以及它們是如何被製造出來的 , 也因為我相信我們應該更深入了解組成我們這個世界的元素 , 而現在 , 我們對於這些高科技的組成成成份的未來是不夠的 。
smart materials are hard to obtain in small quantities .	智慧型材料很難從小量中獲得 。
there's barely any information available on how to use them , and very little is said about how they are produced .	幾乎沒有任何關於如何使用它們的資訊 , 幾乎沒有任何關於它們如何被製造出來的資訊 。
so for now , they exist mostly in this realm of trade secrets and patents only universities and corporations have access to .	所以 , 現在 , 它們大部分都存在於交易秘密和專利的領域中 , 只有大學和企業能取得權利 。
so a little over three years ago , kirsty boyle and i started a project we called open materials .	大約三年前 , 一個kirsty男孩和我開始了一個我們稱之為開放原料的計劃
it's a website where we , and anyone else who wants to join us , share experiments , publish information , encourage others to contribute whenever they can , and aggregate resources such as research papers and tutorials by other makers like ourselves .	這是我們的網站 , 任何想加入我們的人 , 分享實驗、發表資訊 , 鼓勵其他人 , 隨時隨地做出貢獻 , 並且聚集各種資源 , 例如 , 其他像我們這樣的創作者的研究論文和教材 。
we would like it to become a large , collectively generated database of doityourself information on smart materials .	我們希望它能成為一個巨大、集體產生的智慧型材料資料庫 。
but why should we care how smart materials work and what they are made of ?	但為什麼我們要在乎智慧型材料的原理 , 以及它們的組成 ?
first of all , because we can't shape what we don't understand , and what we don't understand and use ends up shaping us .	首先 , 因為我們無法形塑我們不了解的事物 , 而我們不了解的 , 和使用最後卻影響著我們 。
the objects we use , the clothes we wear , the houses we live in , all have a profound impact on our behavior , health and quality of life .	我們所使用的物品 , 穿的衣服 , 我們所居住的房子 , 都對我們的行為、健康及生活品質有深遠的影響 。
so if we are to live in a world made of smart materials , we should know and understand them .	如果我們要生活在一個由智慧型材料組成的世界 , 我們應該要知道並理解它們 。
secondly , and just as important , innovation has always been fueled by tinkerers .	其次 , 同樣重要的是 , 創新總是被修改器給推動 。
so many times , amateurs , not experts , have been the inventors and improvers of things ranging from mountain bikes to semiconductors , personal computers , airplanes .	很多時候 , 業餘人士 , 不是專家 , 都是發明家和改進者 , 從山腳踏車到半導體、個人電腦、飛機 。
the biggest challenge is that material science is complex and requires expensive equipment .	最大的挑戰是材料科學很複雜 , 需要昂貴的設備 。
but that's not always the case .	但並非總是如此 。
two scientists at university of illinois understood this when they published a paper on a simpler method for making conductive ink .	伊利諾大學的兩位科學家了解到這一點 , 當時他們用簡單的方法發表論文 , 以製作導電油墨 。
jordan bunker , who had had no experience with chemistry until then , read this paper and reproduced the experiment at his maker space using only offtheshelf substances and tools .	jordanbunker , 在讀這篇論文之前 , 直到讀到這篇論文 , 並在他的製造者空間裡複製了這個實驗 , 只靠現成的物質和工具 。
he used a toaster oven , and he even made his own vortex mixer , based on a tutorial by another scientist/maker .	他用烤箱 , 甚至做出了自己的軟體混合器 , 根據其他科學家的指導 。
jordan then published his results online , including all the things he had tried and didn't work , so others could study and reproduce it .	喬登接著在網路上發表了他的成果 , 包括他曾經嘗試過、不成功的所有成果 , 讓其他人能夠學習並複製它 。
so jordan's main form of innovation was to take an experiment created in a wellequipped lab at the university and recreate it in a garage in chicago using only cheap materials and tools he made himself .	喬登的創新主要形式就是在一所熟練的大學實驗室裡做一個實驗在芝加哥的車庫裡 , 只用便宜的材料和工具 , 讓他自己做自己 。
and now that he published this work , others can pick up where he left and devise even simpler processes and improvements .	現在 , 他發表了這個作品 , 其他人可以從他離開的地方找到更簡單的程序和改進 。
another example i'd like to mention her project's goal is to highlight the expressive qualities of materials while focusing on the creativity and skills of the builder .	另外一個例子 , 我想要提到她的專案計畫的目的 , 是要強調材料的表達特質 , 同時關注製造者的創意和技巧 。
electronics kits are very powerful in that they teach us how things work , but the constraints inherent in their design influence the way we learn .	電子裝置非常強大 , 能教導我們如何運作 , 但它們與設計的結合 , 影響我們學習的方式 。
so hannah's approach , on the other hand , is to formulate a series of techniques for creating unusual objects that free us from predesigned constraints by teaching us about the materials themselves .	所以漢娜的辦法 , 相反地 , 是要制定一系列的技術 , 來創造出不尋常的物體 , 藉由教導我們有關材料本身的限制 , 來解放我們免於設計的限制 。
so amongst hannah's many impressive experiments , this is one of my favorites .	漢娜的許多令人印象深刻的實驗中 , 這是我最喜歡的實驗之一 。
[ " paper speakers " ] what we're seeing here is just a piece of paper with some copper tape on it connected to an mp3 player and a magnet .	我們現在看到的只是一張紙 , 上面有一些銅膠帶 , 連接到mp3播放器和磁鐵 。
so based on the research by marcelo coelho from mit , hannah created a series of paper speakers out of a wide range of materials from simple copper tape to conductive fabric and ink .	根據麻省理工學院的馬賽羅•科爾霍的研究 , 漢娜創造了一系列的紙喇叭 , 用各種不同材料 , 從簡單的銅膠帶到導電布和墨水 。
just like jordan and so many other makers , hannah published her recipes and allows anyone to copy and reproduce them .	就像jodan和許多其他製造者一樣 , 漢娜發表了她的食譜 , 讓任何人都可以複製和重製 。
but paper electronics is one of the most promising branches of material science in that it allows us to create cheaper and flexible electronics .	但紙電子是最理想的材料科學分支之一 , 讓我們能創造更便宜、靈活的電子 。
so hannah's artisanal work , and the fact that she shared her findings , opens the doors to a series of new possibilities that are both aesthetically appealing and innovative .	漢娜的手工藝品 , 以及她共享的發現 , 為一連串新的可能性打開了一系列的可能性 , 既吸引人又能創新 。
so the interesting thing about makers is that we create out of passion and curiosity , and we are not afraid to fail .	所以 , 關於製造家有趣的是 , 我們創造出熱情和好奇心 , 而我們並不害怕失敗 。
we often tackle problems from unconventional angles , and , in the process , end up discovering alternatives or even better ways to do things .	我們常以非傳統的角度來解決問題 , 在這個過程中 , 最後發現了替代方案 , 或甚至更好的方式來解決問題 。
so the more people experiment with materials , the more researchers are willing to share their research , and manufacturers their knowledge , the better chances we have to create technologies that truly serve us all .	所以越多人實驗材料 , 越多研究人員願意分享他們的研究 , 製造商也願意分享他們的知識 , 我們就越有機會創造出真正能服務我們所有人的科技 。
so i feel a bit as ted nelson must have when , in the early 1970s , he wrote , " you must understand computers now . "	我覺得我有點像泰德.尼爾森在1970年代初期 , 他寫道: 「 你們現在應該要了解電腦 。 」
back then , computers were these large mainframes only scientists cared about , and no one dreamed of even having one at home .	在那時 , 電腦是這些大型的主體 , 只有科學家在乎 , 沒有人夢想過 , 即使在家也沒有人想過會有一個主體 。
so it's a little strange that i'm standing here and saying , " you must understand smart materials now . "	所以 , 我站在這裡並說 , 有點奇怪 , 「 你現在必須要了解智慧型材料 。 」
just keep in mind that acquiring preemptive knowledge about emerging technologies is the best way to ensure that we have a say in the making of our future .	請記住 , 取得新興科技的先驅知識 , 是確保我們在未來能有發言權的最佳方式 。
when we drive , we get into a glass bubble , lock the doors and press the accelerator , relying on our eyes to guide us even though we can only see the few cars ahead of and behind us . but what if cars could share data with each other about their position and velocity , and use predictive models to calculate the safest routes for everyone on the road ? jennifer healey imagines a world without accidents .	當我們開車時 , 我們會進入一個玻璃泡 , 鎖定門和加速器 , 靠我們的眼睛來引導我們 , 儘管我們只能看到前面和後面的幾輛車 。 但如果車子能分享彼此的資料 , 關於他們的位置和速度 , 用預測模型來計算出在路上每個人的安全路線 ? 珍妮•嘿 , ~ 想像一個沒有意外的世界 。
jennifer healey: if cars could talk , accidents might be avoidable	珍妮佛•喜利:如果車子能說話 , 車子可能可以避免發生事故 。
let's face it: driving is dangerous .	面對現實吧:開車很危險 。
it's one of the things that we don't like to think about , but the fact that religious icons and good luck charms show up on dashboards around the world betrays the fact that we know this to be true .	這是我們不喜歡去思考的事情之一 , 但事實是 , 宗教的象徵和好運的迷思出現在世界各地的儀表板上 , 背叛了我們知道的事實 。
car accidents are the leading cause of death in people ages 16 to 19 in the united states leading cause of death and 75 percent of these accidents have nothing to do with drugs or alcohol .	車禍是美國16至19歲的人死亡的主要原因 , 車禍是導致死亡的主因 , 百分之七十五的意外和毒品或酒精無關 。
no one can say for sure , but i remember my first accident .	沒人能肯定 , 但我記得我的第一次意外 。
i was a young driver out on the highway , and the car in front of me , i saw the brake lights go on .	我年輕時在高速公路上 , 車子在我面前 , 我看到煞車燈亮起 。
i'm like , " okay , all right , this guy is slowing down , i'll slow down too . "	我說: 「 好吧 , 好吧 , 這傢伙正在慢下來 , 我也會慢下來 。 」
i step on the brake .	我踩到煞車上 。
but no , this guy isn't slowing down .	但 , 不 , 這傢伙並沒有慢下來 。
this guy is stopping , dead stop , dead stop on the highway .	這傢伙停在高速公路上停下來 , 死掉了 。
it was just going 65 to zero ?	只剩65比0嗎 ?
i slammed on the brakes .	我衝在剎車上 。
i felt the abs kick in , and the car is still going , and it's not going to stop , and i know it's not going to stop , and the air bag deploys , the car is totaled , and fortunately , no one was hurt .	我感覺那些abs開始運作了 , 車子還在運作 , 它不會停下來 , 我知道它不會停下來 , 而且空氣袋開了 , 車子全都被安裝了 , 幸運的是 , 沒有人受傷 。
but i had no idea that car was stopping , and i think we can do a lot better than that .	但我並不知道車子停止了 , 我認為我們可以做得更好 。
i think we can transform the driving experience by letting our cars talk to each other .	我想我們能改變駕駛的經驗 , 透過讓我們的車子彼此對話 , 改變駕駛的經驗 。
i just want you to think a little bit about what the experience of driving is like now .	我希望你們能思考一下駕駛的體驗現在是怎樣的 。
get into your car . close the door . you're in a glass bubble .	進你的車裡 , 關上門 。 你在玻璃泡裡 。
you can't really directly sense the world around you .	你無法直接感受周圍的世界 。
you're in this extended body .	你在這個延伸的身體裡 。
you're tasked with navigating it down partiallyseen roadways , in and amongst other metal giants , at superhuman speeds .	你的任務是 , 沿著部份的路道導航 , 和其他巨大的金屬巨星 , 以超人的速度在行駛 。
okay ? and all you have to guide you are your two eyes .	好嗎 ? 你只需要指導你是兩隻眼睛 。
okay , so that's all you have , eyes that weren't really designed for this task , but then people ask you to do things like , you want to make a lane change , what's the first thing they ask you do ?	好吧 , 這就是你所擁有的 , 眼睛不是為了這個任務而設計的 , 但人們要求你做像這樣的事 , 你想做一件事 , 做一件事 , 他們問的第一件事是什麼 ?
take your eyes off the road . that's right .	把你的眼睛從路面上移開 , 沒錯 。
stop looking where you're going , turn , check your blind spot , and drive down the road without looking where you're going .	不要再看你要去哪裡 , 轉過來 , 檢查你的盲點 , 不看你要去哪裡 。
you and everyone else . this is the safe way to drive .	你和其他人 。 這是安全的駕駛方式 。
why do we do this ? because we have to , we have to make a choice , do i look here or do i look here ?	為什麼我們要這樣做 ? 因為我們必須做選擇 , 我們必須做選擇 , 看這裡 , 還是看這裡 ?
and usually we do a fantastic job picking and choosing what we attend to on the road .	通常 , 我們會做很棒的工作 , 挑選我們在路上要走的方向 。
but occasionally we miss something .	但偶爾我們會錯過一些事 。
occasionally we sense something wrong or too late .	偶爾我們會感覺到不對或太遲的東西 。
in countless accidents , the driver says , " i didn't see it coming . "	在無數的意外中 , 司機說: 「 我沒看到它要來 。 」
and i believe that . i believe that .	我相信這一點 , 我相信這一點 。
we can only watch so much .	我們只能看這麼多影片 。
but the technology exists now that can help us improve that .	但這項技術現在已經存在 , 可以協助我們改善它 。
in the future , with cars exchanging data with each other , we will be able to see not just three cars ahead and three cars behind , to the right and left , all at the same time , bird's eye view , we will actually be able to see into those cars .	未來 , 車子會互相交換資料 , 我們將能夠看到前面三輛車 , 後面三輛車 , 後面還有左邊的 , 同時 , 鳥的眼光 , 我們將能夠看見那些車 。
we will be able to see the velocity of the car in front of us , to see how fast that guy's going or stopping .	我們將能夠看到前面車子的速度 , 看看他前面的車子的速度有多快或停止 。
if that guy's going down to zero , i'll know .	如果那個人要降到零 , 我就會知道 。
and with computation and algorithms and predictive models , we will be able to see the future .	有了計算、演算法和預測模型 , 我們就能看到未來 。
you may think that's impossible .	你可能認為這是不可能的 。
how can you predict the future ? that's really hard .	你如何預測未來 ? 這真的很難 。
actually , no . with cars , it's not impossible .	事實上 , 不 , 車子的確是不可能的
cars are threedimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity .	汽車是三維立體的物體 , 有固定的位置和速度 。
they travel down roads .	他們在路上行駛 。
often they travel on prepublished routes .	通常他們會在預定的路線上旅行 。
it's really not that hard to make reasonable predictions about where a car's going to be in the near future .	要預測車子在不久的將來會在哪裡 , 並不難 。
even if , when you're in your car and some motorcyclist comes bshoom ! 85 miles an hour down , lanesplitting i know you've had this experience that guy didn't " just come out of nowhere . "	即使 , 當你在車子裡 , 有些摩托車騎士來到波士頓時速85英里 , 我知道你有這種經驗 , 有人沒有 「 出櫃 」 的經驗 。
that guy's been on the road probably for the last half hour .	這傢伙可能已經在路上待了半小時 。
right ? i mean , somebody's seen him .	對吧 ? 我的意思是 , 有人見過他 。
ten , 20 , 30 miles back , someone's seen that guy , and as soon as one car sees that guy and puts him on the map , he's on the map position , velocity , good estimate he'll continue going 85 miles an hour .	10 , 30英里前 , 有人見過他 , 只要一輛車看到他 , 然後把他放到地圖上 , 他就在地圖上 , 速度 , 估計他會以每小時85英里的速度繼續前進 。
you'll know , because your car will know , because that other car will have whispered something in his ear , like , " by the way , five minutes , motorcyclist , watch out . "	你會知道 , 因為你的車會知道 , 因為其他車會在他的耳朵中悄悄地在他的耳朵中 , 說: 「 順便說一句 , 五分鐘 , 摩托車 , 小心 。 」
you can make reasonable predictions about how cars behave .	你可以合理的預測車子的行為 。
i mean , they're newtonian objects .	我的意思是 , 它們是牛頓人物 。
that's very nice about them .	這對他們來說是非常好的 。
so how do we get there ?	所以 , 我們要如何做到 ?
we can start with something as simple as sharing our position data between cars , just sharing gps .	我們可以從簡單的開始 , 像車子之間共享我們車子的位置 , 只是分享gps 。
if i have a gps and a camera in my car , i have a pretty precise idea of where i am and how fast i'm going .	如果我的車子裡有gps和照相機 , 我就會精確地知道我在哪裡 , 以及我走得多快 。
with computer vision , i can estimate where the cars around me are , sort of , and where they're going .	有了電腦視覺 , 我可以估計我身邊的車子在哪裡 , 有點像是在哪裡 。
and same with the other cars .	其他車子也一樣 。
they can have a precise idea of where they are , and sort of a vague idea of where the other cars are .	他們可以精確地知道他們在哪裡 , 並且可以大概知道其它車子在哪裡 。
what happens if two cars share that data , if they talk to each other ?	如果兩輛車共享那些資料 , 如果它們彼此交談 , 會發生什麼事 ?
i can tell you exactly what happens .	我可以告訴你們發生了什麼事 。
professor bob wang and his team have done computer simulations of what happens when fuzzy estimates combine , even in light traffic , when cars just share gps data , and we've moved this research out of the computer simulation and into robot test beds that have the actual sensors that are in cars now on these robots: stereo cameras , gps , and the twodimensional laser range finders that are common in backup systems .	巴布•旺格教授和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 來估計當福利估計合併時 , 即便在輕量的交通中 , 當車子共用gps資料時 , 我們將這項研究移除電腦模擬 , 做機器人測試 , 讓現有的感應器在機器人身上 , 像是:立體攝影機、定位系統、定位系統 , 及二維度雷射定位系統內 , 來找出相機 。
we also attach a discrete shortrange communication radio , and the robots talk to each other .	我們也裝置了一個短距離的通訊設備 , 機器人彼此對話 。
when these robots come at each other , they track each other's position precisely , and they can avoid each other .	當這些機器人彼此相互碰頭時 , 它們能準確地追蹤彼此的位置 , 它們能避開彼此 。
we're now adding more and more robots into the mix , and we encountered some problems .	我們現在在這個組合中加入越來越多的機器人 , 我們遇到了一些問題 。
one of the problems , when you get too much chatter , it's hard to process all the packets , so you have to prioritize , and that's where the predictive model helps you .	其中一個問題是 , 當太多聊天時 , 很難去處理所有的封包 , 所以你得要把所有封包排優先順序 , 預測模型能協助你的地方 。
if your robot cars are all tracking the predicted trajectories , you don't pay as much attention to those packets .	如果你的機器人車子都在追蹤預測的軌跡 , 你不會多注意到那些封包 。
you prioritize the one guy who seems to be going a little off course .	首先 , 有一個人似乎有點偏離軌道 。
that guy could be a problem .	那個人可能是個問題 。
and you can predict the new trajectory .	你可以預測新的軌跡 。
so you don't only know that he's going off course , you know how .	所以你不只知道他在走路 , 你知道怎麼走 。
and you know which drivers you need to alert to get out of the way .	而且你知道你需要提示哪些駕駛才能擺脫這條路 。
and we wanted to do how can we best alert everyone ?	我們想要怎麼做 , 我們要如何警告大家 ?
how can these cars whisper , " you need to get out of the way ? "	這些車如何竊竊竊私語: 「 你需要逃離這條路嗎 ? 」
well , it depends on two things: one , the ability of the car , and second the ability of the driver .	嗯 , 這取決於兩件事:一 , 車子的性能 , 第二個駕駛的能力 。
if one guy has a really great car , but they're on their phone or , you know , doing something , they're not probably in the best position to react in an emergency .	如果有人有一輛很棒的車 , 但他們在手機上 , 或是做某件事 , 他們可能就不會在急診室裡做出最好的反應 。
so we started a separate line of research doing driver state modeling .	所以 , 我們開始了不同的研究 , 做關於駕駛狀態的模型 。
and now , using a series of three cameras , we can detect if a driver is looking forward , looking away , looking down , on the phone , or having a cup of coffee .	現在 , 使用三部攝影機 , 我們可以偵測到駕駛人是否會向前看、向下看、看著手機 , 或喝杯咖啡 。
we can predict the accident and we can predict who , which cars , are in the best position to move out of the way to calculate the safest route for everyone .	我們可以預測意外 , 我們可以預測誰 , 哪些車子就在最好的位置上 , 向所有人計算最安全的路線 。
fundamentally , these technologies exist today .	基本上 , 這些技術現在就存在了 。
i think the biggest problem that we face is our own willingness to share our data .	我認為我們面臨的最大問題是我們自己的意願 , 願意分享我們的資料 。
i think it's a very disconcerting notion , this idea that our cars will be watching us , talking about us to other cars , that we'll be going down the road in a sea of gossip .	我想這是個很讓人不安的想法 , 認為我們的車會看著我們 , 和其他車子談 , 說我們會在八卦的大海裡下車 。
but i believe it can be done in a way that protects our privacy , just like right now , when i look at your car from the outside , i don't really know about you .	但我相信 , 它可以用一種保護我們的隱私的方式 , 就像現在 , 當我從外面看你的車時 , 我並不知道你是怎麼做的 。
if i look at your license plate number , i don't really know who you are .	如果我看你的車牌號碼 , 我並不知道你是誰 。
i believe our cars can talk about us behind our backs .	我相信我們的車子可以在我們的背後談論我們 。
and i think it's going to be a great thing .	我認為這將會是件好事 。
i want you to consider for a moment if you really don't want the distracted teenager behind you to know that you're braking , that you're coming to a dead stop .	我希望你們花點時間想想 , 如果你真的不希望後面那些被分心的青少年 , 知道你在煞車 , 知道你快要停下來 。
by sharing our data willingly , we can do what's best for everyone .	透過自願分享資料 , 我們能為每個人做到最好 。
so let your car gossip about you .	所以 , 讓你的車子對你說八卦吧 。
it's going to make the roads a lot safer .	它會讓道路更安全 。
x prize founder peter diamandis talks about how he helped stephen hawking fulfill his dream of going to space by flying together into the upper atmosphere and experiencing weightlessness at zero g .	xprize創辦人彼得•戴曼迪斯談到他如何幫助史蒂芬•霍金在空中飛行 , 讓他在空中飛行 , 進入大氣中 , 體驗無重力 , 以零g為中心 。
business , flight , science , short talk , space , technology , universe	商業、飛行、科學、簡短的談話、空間、科技、宇宙、宇宙等 。
peter diamandis on stephen hawking in zero g	彼得•戴曼迪斯在史蒂芬•霍金的0格出現 。
those of you who know me know how passionate i am about opening the space frontier .	認識我的人都知道我對打開太空前線有多熱情 。
so when i had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity , it was incredible .	所以當我有機會給世界的重力專家無重力的經驗時 , 真的很不可思議 。
and i want to tell you that story .	我想要告訴各位這個故事 。
i first met him through the archon x prize for genomics .	我初次見到他 , 是因為基因組學的考古xprize 。
it's a competition we're holding , the second x prize , for the first team to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days .	這是我們舉辦的競賽 , 第二個xprize , 讓第一組在10天內完成100個人類基因組定序 。
we have something called the genome 100 100 individuals we're sequencing as part of that .	我們有一百個人基因組排序 , 其中之一就是基因組排序 。
craig venter chairs that event .	克雷格•凡特那樣的事件 。
and i met professor hawking , and he said his dream was to travel into space .	我遇見了霍金教授 , 他說他的夢想就是到太空中旅行 。
and i said , " i can't take you there , but i can take you into weightlessness into zerog .	我說: 「 我不能帶你到那裡 , 但我可以帶你進入無重力狀態 , 進入零 。
and he said , on the spot , " absolutely , yes . "	然後他說: 「 沒錯 。 」
well , the only way to experience zerog on earth is actually with parabolic flight , weightless flight .	唯一能體驗世上無重力的 「 零 」 的方法 , 其實是透過降落傘的飛行、無重力的飛行 。
you take an airplane , you fly over the top , you're weightless for 25 seconds .	搭飛機 , 飛越頂部 , 飛了25秒 。
come back down , you weigh twice as much .	再下來 , 重量兩倍 。
you do it again and again .	一而再 , 再而三地做 。
you can get eight , 10 minutes of weightlessness how nasa's trained their astronauts for so long .	你可以得到八、十分鐘的無重力 , nasa如何訓練他們的太空人很久 。
we set out to do this .	我們開始這樣做 。
it took us 11 years to become operational .	我們花了11年才開始營運 。
and we announced that we were going to fly stephen hawking .	我們宣布我們要飛史蒂芬•霍金
we had one government agency and one company aircraft operator say , you're crazy , don't do that , you're going kill the guy .	我們有一家政府機關和一家公司的操作員 , 說你瘋了 , 不要這樣做 , 你要殺了那傢伙 。
and he wanted to go .	他想要去 。
we worked hard to get all the permissions .	我們很努力地取得所有的許可 。
and six months later , we sat down at kennedy space center .	六個月後 , 我們在甘迺迪太空中心坐下 。
we had a press conference , we announced our intent to do one zerog parabola , give him 25 seconds of zerog .	我們有一場記者大會 , 我們宣布我們打算要做一顆無重力的拋物面鏡 , 給他25秒的零 。
and if it went really well , we might do three parabolas .	如果一切順利 , 我們可能會做三個拋物線飛行 。
well , we asked him why he wanted to go up and do this .	嗯 , 我們問他為什麼他想這樣做 。
and what he said , for me , was very moving .	他所說的 , 對我來說 , 非常感人 。
he said , " life on earth is at an everincreasing risk of being wiped out by disaster . . .	他說: 「 地球上的生命正處於不斷增加的危機 , 即被災難消滅的危機......
i think the human race doesn't have a future if it doesn't go into space .	我認為如果人類不上太空 , 就沒有未來 。
i therefore want to encourage public interest in space . "	所以我想鼓勵公眾對太空的興趣 。 」
we took him out to the kennedy space center , up inside the nasa vehicle , into the back of the zerog airplane .	我們帶他到甘迺迪太空中心 , 在太空總署的太空飛機裡 , 到零號飛機的後方 。
we had about 20 people who made donations we raised $150 , 000 in donations for children's charities who flew with us .	我們有20個人捐款我們籌措15萬美元的捐款給那些與我們一起飛行的兒童慈善機構
a few tedsters here .	這裡有幾個ted成員 。
we set up a whole er .	我們成立了整間急診室 。
we had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane .	我們有四個急診醫生和兩位護士搭上飛機 。
we were monitoring his po2 of his blood , his heart rate , his blood pressure .	我們在監控他的血液、他的心跳、他的血壓 。
we had everything all set in case of an emergency ; god knows , you don't want to hurt this worldrenowned expert .	我們全部都準備好 , 以應付緊急情況 ; 天知道 , 你不想傷到這個世界知名的專家 。
we took off from the shuttle landing facility , where the shuttle takes off and lands .	我們從太空梭降落場起飛 , 太空梭起降 。
and my partner byron lichtenberg and i carefully suspended him into zerog .	我的另一半的拜倫.李希汀伯格和我小心地把他吊死在零 。
once he was there , [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like .	一旦他在現場 , 我們就讓他去體驗無重力的體驗 。
and after that first parabola , you know , the doc said everything is great . he was smiling , and we said go .	在第一個拋物線飛行員之後 , 你知道 , 醫生說一切都很棒 。 他在笑 , 我們說: 「 去吧 。 」
so we did a second parabola .	所以我們做了第二個拋物線飛行器 。
we actually floated an apple in homage to sir isaac newton because professor hawking holds the same chair at cambridge that isaac newton did .	我們其實漂浮著一顆蘋果 , 致力於艾薩克•牛頓爵士 , 因為霍金教授在劍橋擔任相同的座椅 。
and we did a fourth , and a fifth and a sixth .	我們做了第四次 , 第五次和第六次 。
and a seventh and an eighth .	第七和第八個 。
and this man does not look like a 65yearold wheelchairbound man .	這個人看起來不像一個65歲的輪椅 ,
he was so happy .	他很開心 。
we are living on a precious jewel , and it's during our lifetime that we're moving off this planet .	我們生活在一個珍貴的珠寶身上 , 在我們這個世代 , 我們正在離開這個星球 。
please join us in this epic adventure .	請加入我們這趟史詩般的探險 。
medical animator david bolinsky presents 3 minutes of stunning animation that show the bustling life inside a cell .	醫學動畫家大衛•巴林斯基總共有3分鐘的驚人動畫 , 呈現出在細胞內部爆炸的生命 。
design , entertainment , film , health , medicine , science , technology , visualizations	設計 , 娛樂 , 電影 , 健康 , 醫學 , 科學 , 科技 , 視覺化 。
david bolinsky animates a cell	davidbolinsky描繪了一個細胞 。
i'm a medical illustrator , and i come from a slightly different point of view .	我是個醫學插圖師 , 我從一個稍微不同的角度看待自己 。
i've been watching , since i grew up , the expressions of truth and beauty in the arts and truth and beauty in the sciences .	自從我長大以來 , 我一直在觀察 , 藝術、真相和美的表現 。
and while these are both wonderful things in their own right they both have very wonderful things going for them truth and beauty as ideals that can be looked at by the sciences and by math are almost like the ideal conjoined twins that a scientist would want to date .	儘管這些都是他們自身的美好事物 , 他們都有美好的事物 , 能夠將科學和數學視為理想的理想事物 , 如同理想的合理的組合雙胞胎 , 一個科學家想要約會 。
these are expressions of truth as awefull things , by meaning they are things you can worship .	這些表達了真相作為敬畏的事物的表達 , 意思就是它們是你可以崇拜的事物 。
they are ideals that are powerful . they are irreducible .	它們是強大的理想 。 它們是不可思議的 。
they are unique . they are useful sometimes , often a long time after the fact .	它們是獨一無二的 , 有時是有用的 , 通常在事實之後很長的時間 。
and you can actually roll some of the pictures now , because i don't want to look at me on the screen .	你現在就可以滾一些照片了 , 因為我不想在螢幕上看到我 。
truth and beauty are things that are often opaque to people who are not in the sciences .	真相和美麗 , 往往是對沒有在科學界的人並不反對的 。
they are things that describe beauty in a way that is often only accessible if you understand the language and the syntax of the person who studies the subject in which truth and beauty is expressed .	它們描述了美的事物 , 通常只有在你了解語言和對研究這個主題的人所使用的語言和語法時才會被描述出來 。
if you look at the math , e=mc squared , if you look at the cosmological constant , where there's an anthropic ideal , where you see that life had to evolve from the numbers that describe the universe these are things that are really difficult to understand .	如果你看看數學 , e=mc平方 , 如果你看看宇宙的常數 , 那裡存在著人類的理想 , 你可以看到生命必須從描述宇宙的數字進化出這些東西是非常難理解的 。
and what i've tried to do since i had my training as a medical illustrator since i was taught animation by my father , who was a sculptor and my visual mentor i wanted to figure out a way to help people understand truth and beauty in the biological sciences by using animation , by using pictures , by telling stories so that the things that are not necessarily evident to people can be brought forth , and can be taught , and can be understood .	自從我被教導成為一名醫學插圖師之後 , 我試著做的是從我被教導我的父親 , 他是一位雕塑家 , 也是我的視覺導師 , 我想找到一種方式 , 幫助人們理解生物科學中的真與美 , 透過動畫 , 用圖片 , 說出故事 , 這樣人們不見得能被帶到的東西 , 可以被教導 , 也可以被理解 。
students today are often immersed in an environment where what they learn is subjects that have truth and beauty embedded in them , but the way they're taught is compartmentalized and it's drawn down to the point where the truth and beauty are not always evident .	現今的學生常常沉浸在一個環境中 , 在這樣的環境中 , 他們所學習到的主題是有真與美的 , 但他們被教導的方式 , 是分歧的 , 被吸引到一個時點 , 說實話和美麗不見得一定都是事實 。
it's almost like that old recipe for chicken soup where you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone .	這就像古老的雞湯的配方你煮雞肉直到香味消失為止
we don't want to do that to our students .	我們不想這樣對待學生 。
so we have an opportunity to really open up education .	所以我們有機會真正開放教育的機會 。
and i had a telephone call from robert lue at harvard , in the molecular and cellular biology department , a couple of years ago . he asked me if my team and i would be interested and willing to really change how medical and scientific education is done at harvard .	幾年前 , 哈佛大學的羅伯特•路德打電話給我 , 他問我和我的團隊是否有興趣 , 願意改變哈佛大學的醫學與科學教育方式 。
so we embarked on a project that would explore the cell that would explore the truth and beauty inherent in molecular and cellular biology so that students could understand a larger picture that they could hang all of these facts on .	所以我們開始著手進行一項計畫 , 探究細胞能夠在分子和細胞生物學中探索真相和美 , 如此一來 , 學生就能更了解它們能夠記住所有的事實 。
they could have a mental image of the cell as a large , bustling , hugely complicated city that's occupied by micromachines .	他們可以把細胞的形象想像成一個巨大、繁忙、非常複雜的城市 , 被微機械佔據的城市 。
and these micromachines really are at the heart of life .	這些微機械真的就是生命的核心 。
these micromachines , which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over , are selfdirected , powerful , precise , accurate devices that are made out of strings of amino acids .	這些微機械 , 是奈米技術人員在世界各地都很嫉妒 , 它們是自我引導、強大、精準、精確的裝置 , 是由胺基酸鏈所組成的 。
and these micromachines power how a cell moves .	而這些微機械可以驅動細胞移動的方式 。
they power how a cell replicates . they power our hearts .	它們能驅動細胞如何複製 。 它們能驅動我們的心臟 。
they power our minds .	它們驅動了我們的心智 。
and so what we wanted to do was to figure out how we could make this story into an animation that would be the centerpiece of biovisions at harvard , which is a website that harvard has for its molecular and cellular biology students that will in addition to all the textual information , in addition to all the didactic stuff put everything together visually , so that these students would have an internalized view of what a cell really is in all of its truth and beauty , and be able to study with this view in mind , so that their imaginations would be sparked , so that their passions would be sparked and so that they would be able to go on and use these visions in their head to make new discoveries and to be able to find out , really , how life works .	所以我們想要做的是 , 弄清楚如何把這個故事變成一個動畫 , 讓哈佛大學生物視野成為哈佛大學生物視覺的中心 , 一個網站 , 哈佛擁有它的分子和細胞生物學學生 , 除了所有的文字資料外 , 還有這些學生視覺化的視覺化影 , 以內化細胞在真相和美的事物 , 以至於能夠研究這個網站 , 如此一來 , 哈佛對於這些生物學的想像力 , 能夠被激發 , 這樣他們一生使用 , 來發現 , 這樣他們能夠被激發出生命 。
so we set out by looking at how these molecules are put together .	所以我們開始研究這些分子的組合方式 。
we worked with a theme , which is , you've got macrophages that are streaming down a capillary , and they're touching the surface of the capillary wall , and they're picking up information from cells that are on the capillary wall , and they are given this information that there's an inflammation somewhere outside , where they can't see and sense .	我們和一個主題合作 , 就是巨噬細胞在微血管中向下流動 , 它們會觸碰微血管壁的表面 , 它們會從微血管壁中挑出一些來自微血管細胞的信息 , 它們會收集到一些在體外的發炎信息 , 有些在體外的發炎信息 , 有些在微血管之外 , 看不見和感官的地方 。
but they get the information that causes them to stop , causes them to internalize that they need to make all of the various parts that will cause them to change their shape , and try to get out of this capillary and find out what's going on .	但他們得到的資訊會讓它們停止 , 讓它們內化 , 使它們必須製造各種各樣的零件 , 使它們改變形狀 , 試著從微血管中找出發生了什麼事 。
so these molecular motors we had to work with the harvard scientists and databank models of the atomically accurate molecules and figure out how they moved , and figure out what they did .	所以這些分子馬達我們必須與哈佛大學的科學家和資料庫合作 , 研究原子上精確的分子模型 , 找出它們是如何移動的 , 找出它們是如何移動的 。
and figure out how to do this in a way that was truthful in that it imparted what was going on , but not so truthful that the compact crowding in a cell would prevent the vista from happening .	並且弄清楚如何做到這一點 , 用一種很誠實的方式來表明到底發生了什麼事 , 卻沒有那麼真實 , 細胞內很緊密的群眾會阻止這個現象發生 。
and so what i'm going to show you is a threeminute reader's digest version of the first aspect of this film that we produced . it's an ongoing project that's going to go another four or five years .	接下來我要讓大家看的是我們所製作的第一層影片的最初版本的三分鐘的讀者 。 這是一個持續進行中的專案 , 會持續四到五年 。
and i want you to look at this and see the paths that the cell manufactures these little walking machines , they're called kinesins that take these huge loads that would challenge an ant in relative size .	請你們看這段影片 , 看看這些細胞製造這些小型步行機器的路徑 , 它們被稱為動脈 , 以這些巨大的負荷 , 來挑戰相對大小的螞蟻 。
run the movie , please .	請播放這部電影 。
but these machines that power the inside of the cells are really quite amazing , and they really are the basis of all life because all of these machines interact with each other .	但這些能驅動細胞內部的機器是非常不可思議的 , 它們真的是所有生命的基礎 , 因為所有這些機器彼此之間的互動 。
they pass information to each other .	他們會把資訊傳遞給彼此 。
they cause different things to happen inside the cell .	它們會造成細胞內不同的事情發生 。
and the cell will actually manufacture the parts that it needs on the fly , from information that's brought from the nucleus by molecules that read the genes .	細胞會實際製造它在果蠅上所需要的部分 , 由讀取基因的分子所帶出的細胞核所產生的 。
no life , from the smallest life to everybody here , would be possible without these little micromachines .	沒有生命 , 從最小的生命 , 到這裡的每一個人 , 沒有這些微機械 。
in fact , it would really , in the absence of these machines , have made the attendance here , chris , really quite sparse .	事實上 , 在沒有這些機器的情況下 , 今天的出席率 , 克里斯 , 非常稀少 。
this is the fedex delivery guy of the cell .	這是細胞的fedex遞送人員 。
this little guy is called the kinesin , and he pulls a sack that's full of brand new manufactured proteins to wherever it's needed in the cell whether it's to a membrane , whether it's to an organelle , whether it's to build something or repair something .	這個小傢伙叫做 「 動蛋白 」 , 他會拿出一個包包包 , 裡面充滿了全新製造的蛋白質 , 到細胞所需的任何地方 , 不論是對一個細胞膜 , 不論是對器官 , 不論是用來製造或修復 。
and each of us has about 100 , 000 of these things running around , right now , inside each one of your 100 trillion cells .	我們每個人都有大約十萬個這種東西在運作 , 目前 , 在你一百兆個細胞裡 。
so no matter how lazy you feel , you're not really intrinsically doing nothing .	不論你有多懶惰 , 本質上來說 , 你並沒有在做任何事 。
so what i want you to do when you go home is think about this , and think about how powerful our cells are .	所以當你們回家後 , 我希望你們想想這一點 , 想想我們的細胞有多強大 。
and think about some of the things that we're learning about cellular mechanics .	想想我們正在學習關於細胞機械的一些事情 。
once we figure out all that's going on and believe me , we know almost a percent of what's going on once we figure out what's going on , we're really going to be able to have a lot of control over what we do with our health , with what we do with future generations , and how long we're going to live .	一旦我們想通了一切 , 相信我 , 一旦我們弄清楚發生了什麼事 , 我們就知道將近百分之一的狀況 , 一旦我們搞清楚到底發生了什麼事 , 我們將能夠掌握我們對健康、我們對未來世代的做法 , 以及我們能活多久 。
and hopefully we'll be able to use this to discover more truth , and more beauty .	希望我們能利用這個發現 , 發現更多真相 , 和更多美麗 。
but it's really quite amazing that these cells , these micromachines , are aware enough of what the cell needs that they do their bidding .	但 , 很驚人的是 , 這些細胞、這些微機械 , 都能意識到它們所需要的細胞 , 足以執行它們的目標 。
they work together . they make the cell do what it needs to do .	他們一起工作 。 他們讓細胞做它所需要的 。
and their working together helps our bodies huge entities that they will never see function properly .	他們一起合作 , 協助我們身體的巨大實體 , 讓他們永遠無法看到正常運作的實體 。
enjoy the rest of the show . thank you .	欣賞剩下的表演 。 謝謝 。
becky blanton planned to live in her van for a year and see the country , but when depression set in and her freelance job ended , her camping trip turned into homelessness . in this intimate talk , she describes her experience of becoming one of america's working homeless .	貝琪•布蘭頓計劃在她的車上住一年 , 看一下這個國家 , 但當憂鬱症發生時 , 她的露營工作結束時 , 她的旅程變成無家可歸 。 在這場親密的演說中 , 她描述她成為美國其中一名工作無家可歸的經歷 。
adventure , happiness , life , personal growth , poverty , social change , society , storytelling	冒險 , 快樂 , 生活 , 個人成長 , 貧窮 , 社會變革 , 說故事 。
becky blanton: the year i was homeless	貝琪•布蘭頓:那一年 , 我無家可歸 。
i'm a writer and a journalist , and i'm also an insanely curious person , so in 22 years as a journalist , i've learned how to do a lot of new things .	我是個作家和記者 , 我也是個非常好奇的人 , 所以身為記者 , 在22年內 , 我學會了很多新東西 。
and three years ago , one of the things i learned how to do was to become invisible .	三年前 , 我學到了一件事情 , 就是變得隱形 。
i became one of the working homeless .	我成了工作無家可歸的無家者 。
i quit my job as a newspaper editor after my father died in february of that same year , and decided to travel .	我辭去了報紙編輯的工作 , 就在我父親同年二月去世之後 , 我決定去旅行 。
his death hit me pretty hard .	他的死令我十分痛苦 。
and there were a lot of things that i wanted to feel and deal with while i was doing that .	在我做這件事的時候 , 我有很多想要感受和處理的事情 。
i've camped my whole life . and i decided that living in a van for a year to do this would be like one long camping trip .	我一生都在露營 , 我決定住在旅行車中一年 , 要做這件事 , 就像一趟漫長的露營之旅 。
so i packed my cat , my rottweiler and my camping gear into a 1975 chevy van , and drove off into the sunset , having fully failed to realize three critical things .	於是我打包了我的貓 , 我的鹿特威爾和我的露營裝備 , 進入了1975年的雪佛車 , 開進日落 , 完全沒有發現三件非常重要的事 。
one: that society equates living in a permanent structure , even a shack , with having value as a person .	第一:社會將生活在一個永久的結構中 , 甚至一個小屋內 , 身為人 , 擁有價值 。
two: i failed to realize how quickly the negative perceptions of other people can impact our reality , if we let it .	第二:我沒辦法了解到 , 很快地 , 其他人對於負面的看法 , 只要我們願意 , 就會影響到我們的真實 。
three: i failed to realize that homelessness is an attitude , not a lifestyle .	第三:我沒有意識到 , 無家可歸是種態度 , 而非生活方式 。
at first , living in the van was great .	一開始 , 住在旅行車很棒 。
i showered in campgrounds . i ate out regularly .	我在營地洗澡 , 定期吃飯 。
and i had time to relax and to grieve .	我有時間放鬆和悲慟 。
but then the anger and the depression about my father's death set in .	但接著 , 憤怒和沮喪 , 讓我父親的死亡發生了 。
my freelance job ended . and i had to get a fulltime job to pay the bills .	我的自由工作結束了 。 我必須有一份全職的工作來支付帳單 。
what had been a really mild spring turned into a miserably hot summer .	一個非常溫和的春天 , 變成了一個非常溫和的夏天 。
and it became impossible to park anywhere without being very obvious that i had a cat and a dog with me , and it was really hot .	要停在任何地方都不可能 , 要很明顯地 , 我有一隻貓和一隻狗 , 非常熱 。
the cat came and went through an open window in the van .	貓跑過車窗 , 開了一扇窗戶 ,
the doggy went into doggy day care .	狗狗送到日光照顧中心 。
whenever i could , i used employee showers in office buildings and truck stops .	每當我能在辦公大樓和卡車停車時 , 我都會在辦公大樓裡洗澡 。
or i washed up in public rest rooms .	或是在公共休息室洗澡 。
nighttime temperatures in the van rarely dropped below 80 degrees fahrenheit , making it difficult or impossible to sleep .	夜間車廂中的溫度很少在華氏80度以下的華氏80度以下 , 造成難以入睡 。
food rotted in the heat .	食物在熱中腐爛 。
ice in my ice chest melted within hours , and it was pretty miserable .	冰箱裡的冰層在幾小時內融化了 , 很悲慘 。
i couldn't afford to find an apartment , or couldn't afford an apartment that would allow me to have the rottweiler and the cat .	我負擔不起找到一間公寓 , 或不能買得起一間公寓 , 讓我能有腐爛的推特和貓 。
and i refused to give them up , so i stayed in the van .	我拒絕放棄他們 , 所以我留在旅行車上 。
and when the heat made me too sick to walk the 50 feet to the public restroom outside my van at night , i used a bucket and a trash bag as a toilet .	當高溫讓我無法走五十英尺到車外的公共廁所時 , 我用一桶桶和一個垃圾袋當廁所 。
when winter weather set in , the temperatures dropped below freezing . and they stayed there .	當冬天來臨時 , 溫度降低到零度以下 , 溫度降到零度 。
and i faced a whole new set of challenges .	我面臨了一系列新的挑戰 。
i parked a different place every night so i would avoid being noticed and hassled by the police .	每天晚上我都開著一個不一樣的停車位 , 這樣我就不會被警察注意到和困擾 。
i didn't always succeed .	我並不總是成功的 。
but i felt out of control of my life .	但我覺得我無法掌控我的人生 。
and i don't know when or how it happened , but the speed at which i went from being a talented writer and journalist to being a homeless woman , living in a van , took my breath away .	我不知道何時或如何發生 , 但我從身為有才華的作家和記者 , 轉變為一個住在旅行車裡的無家者 , 把我的呼吸帶走 。
i hadn't changed . my i . q . hadn't dropped .	我沒變 。 我的智商沒變 。
my talent , my integrity , my values , everything about me remained the same .	我的天份、我的誠信、我的價值觀、我對我的一切的看法都是一樣的 。
but i had changed somehow .	但我不知怎麼地改變了 。
i spiraled deeper and deeper into a depression .	我陷入更深的沮喪中 。
and eventually someone referred me to a homeless health clinic .	最終 , 有人把我稱為無家可歸的健康診所 。
and i went . i hadn't bathed in three days .	我去了 , 三天沒洗澡
i was as smelly and as depressed as anyone in line .	我和排隊中的人一樣沮喪和沮喪 。
i just wasn't drunk or high .	我只是沒喝醉或喝得很高 。
and when several of the homeless men realized that , including a former university professor , they said , " you aren't homeless . why are you really here ? "	當一些無家可歸的人發現 , 包括之前的大學教授 , 他們說: 「 你不是無家可歸的人 , 你為什麼會站在這裡 ? 」
other homeless people didn't see me as homeless , but i did .	其他無家者沒有把我視為無家者 , 但我認為我是無家可歸的人 ,
then the professor listened to my story and he said , " you have a job . you have hope .	然後教授傾聽我的故事 , 他說: 「 你有工作 , 你有希望 。
the real homeless don't have hope . "	真正無家可歸的人沒有希望 。 」
a reaction to the medication the clinic gave me for my depression left me suicidal . and i remember thinking , " if i killed myself , no one would notice . "	診所給我的藥物的反應──憂鬱症讓我有自殺傾向 。 我記得我當時在想: 「 如果我自殺 , 沒有人會注意到 。 」
a friend told me , shortly after that , that she had heard that tim russert , a nationally renowned journalist , had been talking about me on national t . v .	不久之後 , 有一位朋友告訴我 , 她聽說提姆•羅斯 , 一位全國知名的記者 , 在全國性的t.v上談過我 。
an essay i'd written about my father , the year before he died , was in tim's new book .	我寫的一篇文章是關於我父親的 , 在他死前的那一年 , 是在提姆的新書裡 。
and he was doing the talk show circuit . and he was talking about my writing .	他當時正在做這場演講他在講我的作品
and when i realized that tim russert , former moderator of " meet the press , " was talking about my writing , while i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , i started laughing .	當我發現提姆•羅斯 , 《見報社》的前任主持人 , 當時我在一輛沃爾瑪的停車場裡 , 我開始笑 。
i started laughing because it got to the point where , was i a writer , or was i a homeless woman ?	我開始笑了 , 是因為到達了那個時點 , 我是一個作家 , 還是一個無家可歸的女人 ?
so i went in the bookstore . and i found tim's book .	所以我去了書店 , 找到提姆的書 。
and i stood there . and i reread my essay .	我站在那 , 重新讀了我的論文 。
because i was a writer .	因為我是個作家 。
i was a writer .	我是個作家 。
shortly after that i moved back to tennessee .	不久之後 , 我搬回了田納西 。
i alternated between living in a van and couch surfing with friends .	我和朋友住在旅行車裡 , 和沙發衝浪中 。
and i started writing again .	我又重新開始寫作了 。
by the summer of the following year i was a working journalist .	隔年夏天 , 我是個工作記者 。
i was winning awards . i was living in my own apartment .	我贏得了獎 , 我住在自己的公寓裡 。
i was no longer homeless .	我不再無家可歸 。
and i was no longer invisible .	我不再是隱形的 。
thousands of people work full and parttime jobs , and live in their cars .	成千上萬人全職、兼職工作 , 住在車子裡 。
but society continues to stigmatize and criminalize living in your vehicle or on the streets .	但社會持續把你車子或街頭的生活汙名化和犯罪化 。
so the homeless , the working homeless , primarily remain invisible .	所以 , 無家者、工作無家者、工作無家者 , 大部份還是隱形的 。
but if you ever meet one , engage them , encourage them , and offer them hope .	但如果你遇到他們 , 參與他們 , 鼓勵他們 , 給他們希望 。
the human spirit can overcome anything if it has hope .	人類的精神可以在有希望的情況下戰勝任何事物 。
and i'm not here to be the poster girl for the homeless .	我不是來這裡做為無家可歸者的海報 。
i'm not here to encourage you to give money to the next panhandler you meet .	我不是來鼓勵你們把錢給下一個乞討者 。
but i am here to tell you that , based on my experience , people are not where they live , where they sleep , or what their life situation is at any given time .	但我在這裡告訴各位 , 根據我的經驗 , 人們不是住在他們住的地方 , 不論他們睡在哪裡 , 不論他們在哪裡 , 不論他們的人生狀況如何 。
three years ago i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , and today i'm speaking at ted .	三年前 , 我住在一輛旅行車裡 , 停在沃爾瑪的停車場 , 今天我在ted演講 。
hope always , always finds a way . thank you .	希望永遠都能找到方法 。 謝謝 。
at tedxchange , thailand's " mr . condom , " mechai viravaidya , walks us through the country's bold plan to raise its standard of living , starting in the 1970s . first step: population control . and that means a lot of frank , funny and very effective talk about condoms .	在tedxange , 泰國的 " 保險套先生 " , mechaivivaraida , 帶領我們走遍全國 , 大膽提升其生活水準 , 從1970年開始 。 第一步:人口控制 。 這意味著很多法蘭克、滑稽 , 和非常有效的演講關於保險套 。
culture , global issues , health , population , science	文化、全球議題、健康、人口、科學 ,
mechai viravaidya: how mr . condom made thailand a better place	切伊•維拉瓦迪亞:保險套先生讓泰國成為一個更好的地方 。
now , when i was a young man 40 years ago , the country was very , very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty .	四十年前 , 當我還是個年輕人時 , 這個國家非常、非常貧窮 , 有很多人生活在貧窮的環境裡 。
we decided to do something about it , but we didn't begin with a welfare program or a poverty reduction program .	我們決定要做點什麼 , 但我們不是從福利計畫開始 , 或從貧窮減少計畫開始 。
but we began with a familyplanning program , following a very successful maternal child health activity , sets of activities .	但我們從一個家庭規劃開始 , 追隨一個非常成功的母親健康活動 , 組成一組活動 。
so basically , no one would accept family planning if their children didn't survive .	基本上 , 沒有人會接受如果他們的孩子無法生存 , 家庭計畫就沒有人會接受 。
so the first step: get to the children , get to the mothers , and then follow up with family planning .	所以 , 第一步:去找孩子 , 去找母親 , 然後跟著家人規劃 。
not just child mortality alone , you need also family planning .	不僅是孩童死亡率 , 還需要家庭計畫 。
now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it .	現在 , 讓我帶各位回顧為什麼我們需要這麼做 。
in my country , that was the case in 1974 .	在我的國家 , 那是1974年的狀況 。
seven children per family tremendous growth at 3 . 3 percent .	每個家庭有7個孩子的成長率是3.3% 。
there was just no future .	沒有未來 。
we needed to reduce the population growth rate .	我們需要降低人口成長率 。
so we said , " let's do it . "	我們說: 「 我們來做吧 。 」
the women said , " we agree . we'll use pills , but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills , " and we had very , very few doctors .	婦女說: 「 我們同意 , 我們會用藥丸 , 但我們需要醫生來開藥 。 」 而且只有非常少數的醫生 。
we didn't take no as an answer ; we took no as a question .	我們不把 「 不 」 視為答案 ; 我們不把 「 不 」 視為問題 。
we went to the nurses and the midwives , who were also women , and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill .	我們去看護士和助產士 , 他們也是女性 , 做得很棒 , 解釋如何使用避孕藥 。
that was wonderful , but it covered only 20 percent of the country .	那很棒 , 但這只佔全國的20% 。
what do we do for the other 80 percent leave them alone and say , " well , they're not medical personnel . "	我們為其他80%的人做的是讓他們孤獨說: 「 他們不是醫療人員 。 」
no , we decided to do a bit more .	不 , 我們決定多做一點 。
so we went to the ordinary people that you saw .	所以我們去見了普通人 。
actually , below that yellow sign i wish they hadn't wiped that , because there was " cocacola " there .	其實 , 在那個黃色標誌下 , 我希望他們還沒毀掉 , 因為那裡有 「 可口可樂 」 。
we were so much bigger than cocacola in those days .	那時我們比可口可樂多了 。
and no difference , the people they chose were the people we chose .	沒有差別 , 他們所選的對象是我們所選擇的對象 。
they were wellknown in the community , they knew that customers were always right , and they were terrific , and they practiced their family planning themselves .	他們在社區中很有名 , 他們知道顧客永遠是對的 , 他們很棒 , 他們自己也在練習家庭規劃自己 。
so they could supply pills and condoms throughout the country , in every village of the country .	所以他們可以在全國各地提供避孕藥和保險套 。
so there we are . we went to the people who were seen as the cause of the problem to be the solution .	所以 , 就是這樣 。 我們去那些被認為是問題的根源的人 , 去找那些被認為是解決問題的人 。
wherever there were people and you can see boats with the women , selling things here's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives wherever you find people , you'll find contraceptives in thailand .	不論人們在哪裡 , 你都能看到船和婦女賣東西 , 這裡是漂浮的市場 , 賣香蕉和螃蟹 , 不論你在哪裡找到人 , 都能在泰國找到避孕用品 。
and then we decided , why not get to religion because in the philippines , the catholic church was pretty strong , and thai people were buddhist .	然後我們決定 , 何不去宗教 , 因為在菲律賓 , 天主教會非常堅固 , 泰國人是佛教徒 。
we went to them and they said , " look , could you help us ? "	我們去問他們 , 他們說: 「 聽著 , 你能幫我們嗎 ? 」
i'm there the one in blue , not the yellow holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to sprinkle holy water on pills and condoms for the sanctity of the family .	我在藍色的那邊 , 不是黃色的那隻 , 把一碗神聖的水放到僧侶手裡 , 把神聖的水灑在藥丸和保險套上 , 讓家人的神聖聖聖水 。
and this picture was sent throughout the country .	這張照片被送到全國各地 。
so some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves .	所以 , 村落中的一些修士也做同樣的事 。
and the women were saying , " no wonder we have no sideeffects .	女人說: 「 難怪我們沒有副作用 。
it's been blessed . "	被祝福了 。 」
that was their perception .	那是他們的感知 。
and then we went to teachers .	然後我們去找老師 。
you need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place .	你需要每個人去試著提供任何能讓人類變得更美好的東西 。
so we went to the teachers .	所以我們去找老師 。
over a quarter of a million were taught about family planning with a new alphabet a , b for birth , c for condom , i for iud , v for vasectomy .	超過25萬人被教導要用新的字母a、b、b、保險套、iud、v做切除術 。
and then we had a snakes and ladders game , where you throw dice .	然後我們有一個蛇和梯子遊戲 , 一個你丟擲骰子的地方 。
if you land on anything profamily planning , you move ahead .	如果你降落在任何我們熟悉的計劃上 , 你就要往前走 。
like , " mother takes the pill every night .	比如: 「 媽媽每天晚上吃藥 。
very good , mother . move ahead .	非常好 , 媽媽 , 往前走 。
uncle buys a condom . very good , uncle . move ahead .	叔叔買了保險套 , 非常好 , 叔叔 , 前進 。
uncle gets drunk , doesn't use condom . come back , start again . "	叔叔喝醉了 , 不用保險套 。 回來 , 重新開始 。 」
again , education , class entertainment .	同樣地 , 教育、娛樂等 。
and the kids were doing it in school too .	孩子們也在學校這樣做 。
we had relay races with condoms , we had children's condomblowing championship .	我們有和保險套的接力賽 , 我們有孩子的保險套比賽 。
and before long , the condom was know as the girl's best friend .	不久前 , 保險套被視為是女孩最好的朋友 。
in thailand , for poor people , diamonds don't make it so the condom is the girl's best friend .	在泰國 , 對窮人而言 , 鑽石不會讓它變成安全套 , 是女孩最好的朋友 。
we introduced our first microcredit program in 1975 , and the women who organized it said , " we only want to lend to women who practice family planning .	我們在1975年提出了第一個小額貸款項目 , 婦女說: 「 我們只想向那些實行家庭計劃的婦女申請 。
if you're pregnant , take care of your pregnancy .	如果你懷孕了 , 照顧你的懷孕 。
if you're not pregnant , you can take a loan out from us . "	如果你沒有懷孕 , 你可以從我們那裡借出一筆貸款 。 」
and that was run by them .	他們就這樣經營著 。
and after 35/36 years , it's still going on .	在35/36年之後 , 它仍然在進行中 。
it's a part of the village development bank ; it's not a real bank , but it's a fund microcredit .	這是鄉村發展銀行的一部分 , 不是真的銀行 , 而是一筆小額貸款 。
and we didn't need a big organization to run it it was run by the villagers themselves .	我們不需要一個大型組織來經營 , 而是靠村民自己經營 。
and you probably hardly see a thai man there , it's always women , women , women , women .	你可能沒看到泰國男人 , 那裡總有女性、女人、女人 。
and then we thought we'd help america , because america's been helping everyone , whether they want help or not .	接著 , 我們以為我們會協助美國 , 因為美國一直在協助每個人 , 不論他們是否想要協助 。
and this is on the fourth of july .	這是七月四日 。
we decided to provide vasectomy to all men , but in particular , american men to the front of the queue , right up to the ambassador's residence during his [unclear] .	我們決定為全體男性提供輸精管切除術 , 但 , 特別是 , 排在隊伍前面的美國男性 , 位在大使館內 。
and the hotel gave us the ballroom for it very appropriate room .	飯店給了我們一個非常適合的房間 。
and since it was near lunch time , they said , " all right , we'll give you some lunch .	他們說: 「 好吧 , 我們會給你一些午餐時間 。
of course , it must be american cola .	當然 , 一定是美國的可樂 。
you get two brands , coke and pepsi .	兩品牌 , 可口可樂和百事可樂 。
and then the food is either hamburger or hotdog . "	食物既不是漢堡或熱狗 。 」
and i thought a hotdog will be more symbolic .	我覺得熱狗比較有象徵意義 。
and here is this , then , young man called willy bohm who worked for the usaid .	以下是這個 , 年輕人名叫威利•波爾 , 他為美國國際援助工作 。
obviously , he's had his vasectomy because his hotdog is half eaten , and he was very happy .	很顯然 , 他已經做完手術了 , 因為他的熱狗一半被吃掉了 , 他非常開心 。
it made a lot of news in america , and it angered some people also .	它在美國造成了很多消息 , 也讓一些人感到憤怒 。
i said , " don't worry . come over and i'll do the whole lot of you . "	我說: 「 別擔心 , 過來 , 過來我會對你們做很多事 。 」
in all this thing , from seven children to 1 . 5 children , population growth rate of 3 . 3 to 0 . 5 .	總而言之 , 從七個孩子到1.5個孩子 , 人口成長率從3.3%到0.5% 。
you could call it the cocacola approach if you like it was exactly the same thing .	你可以稱它為可口可樂的方法 , 如果你喜歡的話 , 它也是一樣的 。
i'm not sure whether cocacola followed us , or we followed cocacola , but we're good friends .	我不知道可口可樂是否在追隨我們 , 或者我們在追隨可口可樂 , 但我們是好朋友 。
and so that's the case of everyone joining in .	這就是所有人加入的情況 。
we didn't have a strong government . we didn't have lots of doctors .	我們沒有強大的政府 , 我們沒有很多醫生 。
but it's everybody's job who can change attitude and behavior .	但每個人都有工作可以改變態度和行為 。
then aids came along and hit thailand , and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight aids .	然後愛滋病終於來到泰國 , 我們必須停止對抗愛滋病 。
but unfortunately , the government was in denial , denial , denial .	但不幸的是 , 政府被否認、否認、否認 。
so our work wasn't affected .	所以 , 我們的作品沒有受到影響 。
so i thought , " well , if you can't go to the government , go to the military . "	所以我想: 「 嗯 , 如果你不能去政府 , 就去軍隊吧 。 」
so i went to the military and asked to borrow 300 radio stations .	所以我去了軍隊 , 要求借300個電台 。
they have more than the government , and they've got more guns than the government .	他們擁有的不只是政府 , 他們擁有的槍械比政府還多 。
so i asked them , could they help us in our fight against hiv .	所以 , 我問他們 , 他們能不能幫我們對抗愛滋病毒 。
and after i gave them statistics , they said , " yes . okay . you can use all the radio stations , television stations . "	在我做統計後 , 他們說: 「 是的 , 你可以使用所有的電台、電視台 。 」
and that's when we went onto the airwaves .	那時 , 我們進入了空氣波 。
and then we got a new prime minister soon after that .	之後不久 , 我們就有了新的首相 。
and he said , " mechai , could you come and join ? "	他說: 「 克里斯 , 你能來加入嗎 ? 」
he asked me in because he liked my wife a lot .	他問我是因為他很喜歡我太太 。
so i said , " okay . "	我說: 「 好吧 。 」
he became the chairman of the national aids committee and increased the budget fiftyfold .	他成了國家愛滋病委員會的主席 , 並且增加了五十倍的預算 。
every ministry , even judges , had to be involved in aids education everyone and we said the public , institutions , religious institutions , schools everyone was involved .	每個部長 , 甚至法官 , 都得參與愛滋病的教育 , 每一個人 , 我們說 , 公共機構、宗教機構、學校 , 每個人都參與其中 。
and here , every media person had to be trained for hiv .	在這裡 , 每個媒體人都必須接受愛滋病毒的訓練 。
and we gave every station half a minute extra for advertising to earn more money .	我們給每一站 , 多花半分鐘做廣告 , 以賺更多的錢 。
so they were happy with that .	所以他們對此很滿意 。
and then aids education in all schools , starting from university .	然後在所有的學校 , 愛滋病的教育從大學開始
and these are high school kids teaching high school kids .	他們是高中生 , 教導高中生 。
and the best teachers were the girls , not the boys , and they were terrific .	最好的老師是女孩 , 不是男孩 , 他們很棒 。
and these girls who go around teaching about safe sex and hiv were known as mother theresa .	這些到處教導安全性愛和愛滋病毒的女孩 , 被稱為 「 泰瑞莎修女 」 。
and then we went down one more step .	然後我們再往下走一步 。
these are primary school kids third , fourth grade going to every household in the village , every household in the whole of thailand , giving aids information and a condom to every household , given by these young kids .	這些是小學三年級、四年級的孩子 , 會去村裡的每個家庭 , 泰國的每個家庭 , 都會提供愛滋病的資訊和保險套 , 給每個家庭 , 給這些孩子們提供 。
and no parents objected , because we were trying to save lives , and this was a lifesaver .	沒有父母反對 , 因為我們試著拯救生命 , 這是個生命安全者 。
and we said , " everyone needs to be involved . "	我們說: 「 每個人都需要參與 。 」
so you have the companies also realizing that sick staff don't work , and dead customers don't buy .	所以有些公司也知道生病的員工沒有效果 , 消費者就不會買東西 。
so they all trained .	所以他們都受過訓練 。
and then we have this captain condom , with his harvard mba , going to schools and night spots .	接著 , 我們有位哈佛大學mba學位的船長 , 前往學校和夜間 。
and they loved him . you need a symbol of something .	他們愛他 。 你需要一個象徵 。
in every country , every program , you need a symbol , and this is probably the best thing he's ever done with his mba .	在每個國家 , 每一個計畫 , 都需要一個象徵 , 這大概是他用mba做的最好的事了 。
and then we gave condoms out everywhere on the streets everywhere , everywhere .	然後在街上到處都有保險套 , 到處都有 。
in taxis , you get condoms .	在計程車中 , 你有保險套 。
and also , in traffic , the policemen give you condoms our " cops and rubbers " programs .	此外 , 在車陣中 , 警察還會給你保險套 , 我們的 「 警察 」 計畫 。
so , can you imagine new york policemen giving out condoms ?	所以 , 你們能想像紐約警察放棄保險套嗎 ?
of course i can . and they'd enjoy it immensely ; i see them standing around right now , everywhere .	當然我可以 。 他們很享受 , 我看到他們站在一旁 , 到處都看得到 。
imagine if they had condoms , giving out to all sorts of people .	想像他們有保險套 , 給各式各樣的人 。
and then , new change , we had hair bands , clothing and the condom for your mobile phone during the rainy season .	接著 , 新的變化 , 我們的頭髮、衣服、保險套 , 在雨季時 , 你的手機就會有 。
and these were the condoms that we introduced .	這些是我們推出的安全套 。
one says , " weapon of mass protection . "	其中一個說: 「 大規模保護的武器 。 」
we found you know somebody here was searching for the weapon of mass destruction , but we have found the weapon of mass protection: the condom .	我們發現這裡有人在尋找大規模毀滅性武器 , 但我們已經找到了大規模保護的武器:保險套 。
and then it says here , with the american flag , " don't leave home without it . "	美國國旗說: 「 若沒有它 , 就不要離家了 。 」
but i have some to give out afterward .	但我後來還是有一些要放棄的 。
but let me warn you , these are thaisized , so be very careful .	但 , 讓我先警告各位 , 這些是泰國化的 , 非常小心 。
and so you can see that condoms can do so many things .	你可以看到保險套可以做很多事情 。
look at this i gave this to al gore and to bill senior also .	看看這個 , 我把這個給了algore和比爾高三 。
stop global warming ; use condoms .	停止全球暖化、使用保險套 。
and then this is the picture i mentioned to you the weapon of mass protection .	這張照片是我剛剛提到的大規模保護的武器 。
and let the next olympics save some lives .	讓下一屆的奧林匹克拯救了一些生命 。
why just run around ?	為什麼要跑來跑去 ?
and then finally , in thailand we're buddhist , we don't have a god , so instead , we say , " in rubber we trust . "	最後 , 在泰國 , 我們是佛教徒 , 我們沒有神 , 所以 , 我們說: 「 在橡膠裡 , 我們信任橡膠 。 」
so you can see that we added everything to our endeavor to make life better for the people .	所以 , 你們可以看到 , 我們把所有東西加到我們的努力中 , 讓人們的生活變得更好 。
we had condoms in all the refrigerators in the hotels and the schools , because alcohol impairs judgment .	我們在旅館和學校的冰箱裡都裝有安全套 , 因為酒精會損害判斷力 。
and then what happened ?	然後發生了什麼事 ?
after all this time , everybody joined in .	在這段時間之後 , 所有人都加入其中 。
according to the u . n . , new cases of hiv declined by 90 percent , and according to the world bank , 7 . 7 million lives were saved .	根據聯合國的統計 , 愛滋病毒的新感染率下降了90% , 根據世界銀行的統計 , 拯救了770萬條生命 。
otherwise there wouldn't be many thais walking around today .	要不然 , 今天就不會有這麼多泰國人了 。
so it just showed you , you could do something about it .	它只會告訴你 , 你可以做點什麼 。
90 percent of the funding came from thailand .	90%的資金來自泰國 。
there was political commitment , some financial commitment , and everybody joined in the fight .	政治承諾 , 財務承諾 , 每個人都參與了這場戰役 。
so just don't leave it to the specialists and doctors and nurses .	所以不要把它留給專家、醫生、護士 。
we all need to help .	我們都需要幫助 。
and then we decided to help people out of poverty , now that we got aids somewhat out of the way this time , not with government alone , but in cooperation with the business community .	接著 , 我們決定協助人們脫離貧窮 , 現在我們讓愛滋病脫離貧窮 , 這次 , 不只是政府 , 而是和商業界合作 。
because poor people are business people who lack business skills and access to credit .	因為窮人是商人 , 他們缺乏商業技能 , 無法取得功勞 。
those are the things to be provided by the business community .	這些都是商業界所提供的 。
we're trying to turn them into barefoot entrepreneurs , little business people .	我們試著將他們變成赤腳企業家 , 將他們變成小生意人 。
the only way out of poverty is through business enterprise .	脫離貧窮的唯一方法就是透過企業 。
so , that was done .	所以 , 完成了 。
the money goes from the company into the village via treeplanting .	這筆錢從公司到村落的村莊移植 。
it's not a free gift .	這不是免費的禮物 。
they plant the trees , and the money goes into their microcredit fund , which we call the village development bank .	他們種植樹木 , 把錢用在微型貸款基金中 , 我們稱之為鄉村發展銀行 。
everybody joins in , and they feel they own the bank , because they have brought the money in .	每個人都加入 , 他們覺得自己擁有銀行 , 因為他們把錢帶進來 。
and before you can borrow the money , you need to be trained .	在你能借錢之前 , 你需要被訓練 。
and we believe if you want to help the poor , those who are living in poverty , access to credit must be a human right .	我們相信如果你想幫助窮人 , 那些生活在貧窮環境的人 , 信用能力一定是人權 。
access to credit must be a human right .	信用必須是一種人權 。
otherwise they'll never get out of poverty .	否則他們永遠無法擺脫貧窮 。
and then before getting a loan , you must be trained .	在取得貸款之前 , 你必須先受過訓練 。
here's what we call a " barefoot mba , " teaching people how to do business so that , when they borrow money , they'll succeed with the business .	我們稱之為 「 赤腳mba 」 , 教導人們如何做生意 , 這樣 , 當他們借錢時 , 他們就會成功 。
these are some of the businesses: mushrooms , crabs , vegetables , trees , fruits , and this is very interesting nike ice cream and nike biscuits ; this is a village sponsored by nike .	這是一些企業:蘑菇、螃蟹、蔬菜、蔬菜、水果 , 這是非常有趣的東西 , nike冰淇淋和nike餅乾 。 這是由nike贊助的村落 。
they said , " they should stop making shoes and clothes .	他們說: 「 他們應該停止做鞋子和衣服 。
make these better , because we can afford them . "	把這些做得更好 , 因為我們可以負擔得起 。 」
and then we have silk , thai silk .	然後我們有泰國絲綢 。
now we're making scottish tartans , as you can see on the left , to sell to all people of scottish ancestors .	現在我們在做蘇格蘭的目標 , 如你在左邊所看到的 , 賣給所有蘇格蘭祖先的人 。
so anyone sitting in and watching tv , get in touch with me .	所以 , 任何坐著看電視的人 , 和我聯絡 。
and then this is our answer to starbucks in thailand " coffee and condoms . "	這是我們在泰國的星巴克回答: 「 咖啡和保險套 」 。
see , starbucks you awake , we keep you awake and alive .	你看 , 星巴克你醒著 , 我們讓你醒著 , 活著 。
can you imagine , at every starbucks that you can also get condoms ?	你能想像 , 在所有能拿到保險套的星巴克裡嗎 ?
you can order your condoms with your with your cappuccino .	你可以用你的保險套和卡布奇諾訂購安全套 。
and then now , finally in education , we want to change the school as being underutilized into a place where it's a lifelong learning center for everyone .	最後 , 在教育界 , 我們希望把學校變成一個終身學習中心的地方 。
we call this our schoolbased integrated rural development .	我們稱之為 「 以學校為基礎的農村發展 」 。
and it's a center , a focal point for economic and social development .	它是一個中心 , 一個經濟和社會發展的焦點 。
redo the school , make it serve the community needs .	重新建學校 , 讓它符合社區的需求 。
and here is a bamboo building all of them are bamboo .	這是一座竹子建築 , 全部都是竹子 。
this is a geodesic dome made of bamboo .	這是竹子做的地理圓頂 。
and i'm sure buckminster fuller would be very , very proud to see a bamboo geodesic dome .	我相信巴克敏斯特•富勒會非常驕傲地看到一個竹子的地理圓頂 。
and we use vegetables around the school ground , so they raise their own vegetables .	我們在學校裡使用蔬菜來養活自己
and then , finally , i firmly believe , if we want the mdgs to work the millennium development goals we need to add family planning to it .	最後 , 我堅信 , 如果我們希望mdgs能成功達成千禧年發展目標 , 我們就需要增加對它的家庭計畫 。
of course , child mortality first and then family planning everyone needs family planning service it's underutilized .	當然 , 孩童死亡率先於孩童死亡率接著 , 家庭規劃每一個人都需要家庭規劃服務這已被充分利用 。
so we have now found the weapon of mass protection .	我們現在已經找到了大規模保護的武器 。
and we also ask the next olympics to be involved in saving lives .	我們也要求下一屆的奧林匹克參與拯救生命 。
and then , finally , that is our network .	最後 , 這就是我們的網路 。
and these are our thai tulips .	這是我們的泰國鬱金香 。
thank you very much indeed .	非常謝謝各位 。
your smartphone may feel like a friend but a true friend would give you a smile once in a while . at ted2013 , keller rinaudo demos romo , the smartphonepowered mini robot who can motor along with you on a walk , slide you a cup of coffee across the table , and react to you with programmable expressions .	你的智慧型手機可能會像是個朋友 , 但真正的朋友會給你微笑 , 在2013年 , 在ted2013年 , 克萊納多•里納多•德•羅摩 , 智慧型手機的迷你機器人 , 能和你一起散步 , 滑動一杯咖啡 , 橫越桌子 , 並對你做出反應 , 做出可編寫的表達 。
keller rinaudo: a mini robot powered by your phone	kellerrinaudo:一個迷你機器人 , 由你的手機驅動 。
so just by a show of hands , how many of you all have a robot at home ?	請舉一下手 , 在座有多少人家裡有機器人 ?
not very many of you .	你們當中不少人 。
okay . and actually of those hands , if you don't include roomba how many of you have a robot at home ?	好的 , 事實上 , 如果你不把那些手放在房間裡 , 有多少人在家裡有機器人 ?
that's the problem that we're trying to solve at romotive that i and the other 20 nerds at romotive are obsessed with solving .	這是我們在romotive解決的問題 , 我和romotive的其他20位宅男 , 都深深著迷於解決問題 。
so we really want to build a robot that anyone can use , whether you're eight or 80 .	我們真的想要創造一個任何人都可以使用的機器人 , 不論你是八歲或八十歲 。
and as it turns out , that's a really hard problem , because you have to build a small , portable robot that's not only really affordable , but it has to be something that people actually want to take home and have around their kids .	結果發現 , 這是個非常困難的問題 , 因為你要打造一個小型、可攜式的機器人 , 它不僅要負擔得起 , 它還必須讓人真的想要帶回家 , 帶著他們的孩子回家 。
this robot can't be creepy or uncanny .	這種機器人不會很詭異或不可思議 。
he should be friendly and cute .	他應該要很友善、很可愛 。
romo's a robot that uses a device you already know and love your iphone as his brain .	romo是個機器人 , 用你已經知道且喜愛你的iphone來當大腦 。
and by leveraging the power of the iphone's processor , we can create a robot that is wifi enabled and computer visioncapable for 150 bucks , which is about one percent of what these kinds of robots have cost in the past .	透過iphone處理器的力量 , 我們能創造出一個機器人 , 它能被wi-fi和電腦視覺化 , 能容納150美元的價值 , 這大約是過去機器人在過去所花費的百分之一 。
when romo wakes up , he's in creature mode .	當romo醒來時 , 他就在創造模式裡 。
so he's actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face .	所以他其實是在使用裝置上的攝影機來追蹤我的臉孔 。
if i duck down , he'll follow me .	如果我倒下 , 他會跟著我 。
he's wary , so he'll keep his eyes on me .	他很小心 , 所以他會一直盯著我 。
if i come over here , he'll turn to follow me .	如果我來到這裡 , 他會轉身跟著我 。
if i come over here he's smart .	如果我過來這裡 , 他很聰明 。
and if i get too close to him , he gets scared just like any other creature .	如果我太靠近他 , 他就會感到害怕 , 就像其它生物一樣 。
so in a lot of ways , romo is like a pet that has a mind of his own .	在許多層面上 , romo就像一隻擁有自己大腦的寵物 。
thanks , little guy .	謝謝 , 小傢伙 。
and if i want to explore the world uhoh , romo's tired if i want to explore the world with romo , i can actually connect him from any other ios device .	如果我想要探索這個世界--嗯 , 羅馬的累了--如果我想要用romo來探索這個世界 , 我其實可以把他和任何其他的ios設備連接起來 。
so here's the ipad .	這是ipad 。
and romo will actually stream video to this device .	romo會把影片串流到這個裝置上 。
so i can see everything that romo sees , and i get a robot'seyeview of the world .	我可以看到romo所看到的一切 , 我得到機器人的視角 , 世界的視角 。
now this is a free app on the app store , so if any of you guys had this app on your phones , we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together .	這是在appstore上的免費應用程式 , 所以如果在座各位手機上有這個應用程式 , 我們現在真的可以共同控制這個機器人 , 一起玩遊戲 。
so i'll show you really quickly , romo actually he's streaming video , so you can see me and the entire ted audience .	我很快地讓你們看一下romo他其實是串流影片所以你們可以看到我和整個ted觀眾
if i get in front of romo here .	假如我來到這裡的romo前面 。
and if i want to control him , i can just drive .	如果我想要控制他 , 我可以開車 。
so i can drive him around , and i can take pictures of you .	我可以帶他到處走走 , 我可以拍照你 。
i've always wanted a picture of a 1 , 500person ted audience .	我一直都想要一張1 , 500個人的ted觀眾的照片 。
so i'll snap a picture .	我來拍一張照片 。
and in the same way that you scroll through content on an ipad , i can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device .	就像你在ipad上滑動瀏覽內容一樣 , 我可以調整儀器上鏡頭的角度 。
so there are all of you through romo's eyes .	透過romo的眼睛 , 你們全部都在 。
and finally , because romo is an extension of me , i can express myself through his emotions .	最後 , 因為romo是我的延伸 , 我可以透過他的情緒來表達我自己 。
so i can go in and i can say let's make romo excited .	所以 , 我可以進去 , 說咱們來讓romo感到興奮 。
but the most important thing about romo is that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive .	但關於romo最重要的是 , 我們想要創造一種完全完全直覺的事物 。
you do not have to teach someone how to drive romo .	你不需要教別人如何駕駛romo 。
in fact , who would like to drive a robot ?	事實上 , 有誰想要駕駛一個機器人 ?
thank you , scott .	謝謝 , 史考特 。
and even cooler , you actually don't have to be in the same geographic location as the robot to control him .	更酷的是 , 實際上 , 你並不需要和機器人在同一個地理位置來控制他 。
so he actually streams twoway audio and video between any two smart devices .	所以他其實是用雙向音頻和影像在任何兩個智慧型裝置之間的音頻 。
so you can log in through the browser , and it's kind of like skype on wheels .	你可以登入瀏覽器 , 有點像輪子上的skype 。
so we were talking before about telepresence , and this is a really cool example .	我們之前談到遠端臨場 , 這是個很酷的例子 。
you can imagine an eightyearold girl , for example , who has an iphone , and her mom buys her a robot .	你可以想像一個八歲大的女孩 , 她有一個iphone , 她媽媽買了機器人 。
that girl can take her iphone , put it on the robot , send an email to grandma , who lives on the other side of the country .	那個女孩可以拿著她的iphone , 把它放在機器人上 , 寄一封電子郵件給住在國家另一端的奶奶們 。
grandma can log into that robot and play hideandgoseek with her granddaughter for fifteen minutes every single night , when otherwise she might only be able to get to see her granddaughter once or twice a year .	奶奶可以登入那個機器人 , 和她的孫女一起玩捉迷藏 , 每晚十五分鐘 , 否則她可能只能一年見到她的孫女一次或兩次 。
so those are a couple of the really cool things that romo can do today .	所以這些是現在romo能做的一些很酷的事 。
but i just want to finish by talking about something that we're working on in the future .	但最後 , 我想談談我們未來在做的事 。
this is actually something that one of our engineers , dom , built in a weekend .	這是我們其中一個工程師 , 多姆 , 在一個週末建成的 。
it's built on top of a google open framework called blockly .	它是建立在google的開放框架上 , 叫做blockly 。
this allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic code and create any behavior for this robot you want .	這樣你就能拖拉和丟掉這些代碼的積木 , 創造出任何你想要的機器人的行為 。
you do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for romo .	你不需要知道如何編寫romo的行為 。
and you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser , which is what you see romo doing on the left .	實際上你可以在瀏覽器中模擬出它的行為 , 也就是你在左邊看到romo正在做的事 。
and then if you have something you like , you can download it onto your robot and execute it in real life , run the program in real life .	如果你有喜歡的東西 , 你可以下載到你的機器人上 , 並且在現實生活中執行它 , 在現實生活中執行程式 。
and then if you have something you're proud of , you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world .	如果你有某樣東西你很驕傲 , 你可以和世界上每個擁有機器人的人分享 。
so all of these wifi–enabled robots actually learn from each other .	所有這些無線科技的機器人 , 都能互相學習 。
the reason we're so focused on building robots that everyone can train is that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal .	我們之所以專注於建造一個人都能訓練的機器人 , 是因為我們認為在個人機器人學中最令人信服的使用例子是個人的 。
they change from person to person .	它們會從人變成人 。
so we think that if you're going to have a robot in your home , that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination .	所以 , 我們認為 , 如果你要在家裡裝一個機器人 , 那機器人應該是你自己的想像力的表現 。
so i wish that i could tell you what the future of personal robotics looks like .	我希望我能告訴你個人機器人的未來是什麼樣子的 。
to be honest , i have no idea .	老實說 , 我不知道 。
but what we do know is that it isn't 10 years or 10 billion dollars or a large humanoid robot away .	但我們確實知道 , 這不是一百年或一百億美元 , 或一個大型人形機器人 。
the future of personal robotics is happening today , and it's going to depend on small , agile robots like romo and the creativity of people like yourselves .	今天個人機器人的未來正在發生 , 它取決於小型、敏捷的機器人 , 像romo這樣的人 , 以及像你們一樣的創造力 。
so we can't wait to get you all robots , and we can't wait to see what you build .	所以 , 我們等不及要讓你們所有的機器人 , 我們等不及要看看你蓋了什麼 。
author and activist isabel allende discusses women , creativity , the definition of feminism and , of course , passion in this talk .	作家和激進份子伊莎貝爾•阿言德討論女性、創意、對女性主義的定義 , 當然 , 還有在這場演說中 , 熱情的定義 。
entertainment , global issues , love , parenting , storytelling , women , world cultures	娛樂、全球議題、愛、教養、說故事、女性、世界文化 。
isabel allende tells tales of passion	伊莎貝爾•阿言德講述充滿熱情的故事 。
thank you so much . it's really scary to be here among the smartest of the smart .	非常謝謝你們 。 非常恐怖的是 , 在這裡是最聰明的一群人 。
i'm here to tell you a few tales of passion .	我來這裡是要告訴各位幾個關於熱情的故事 。
there's a jewish saying that i love .	有個猶太人這麼說 , 我很喜歡 。
what is truer than truth ? answer: the story .	什麼比真相更真實 ? 答案:故事 。
i'm a storyteller . i want to convey something that is truer than truth about our common humanity .	我是個說故事的人 , 我想要傳達一個比我們共同的人性更真實的東西 。
all stories interest me , and some haunt me until i end up writing them .	所有的故事都讓我感興趣 , 有些故事一直困擾著我 , 直到我最後寫下這些故事 。
certain themes keep coming up: justice , loyalty , violence , death , political and social issues , freedom .	有些主題不斷出現正義、忠誠、暴力、死亡、政治和社會議題、自由 。
i'm aware of the mystery around us , so i write about coincidences , premonitions , emotions , dreams , the power of nature , magic .	我知道我們周圍的謎題 , 所以我寫下巧合、預防、情緒、夢想、自然的力量、自然的力量、魔法 。
in the last 20 years i have published a few books , but i have lived in anonymity until february of 2006 , when i carried the olympic flag in the winter olympics in italy .	在過去的20年裡 , 我出版了幾本書 , 但我一直活在匿名狀態 , 直到2006年2月 , 我在義大利冬季奧林匹克舉行了奧林匹克運動會 。
that made me a celebrity . now people recognize me in macy's , and my grandchildren think that i'm cool .	這讓我成為了名人 。 現在人們在梅西百貨中認識我 , 而我的孫子們認為我很酷 。
allow me to tell you about my four minutes of fame .	讓我來談談我四分鐘的名氣 。
one of the organizers of the olympic ceremony , of the opening ceremony , called me and said that i had been selected to be one of the flagbearers .	一名籌辦奧林匹克大會的籌辦人打電話給我 , 說我被選為旗手之一 。
i replied that surely this was a case of mistaken identity because i'm as far as you can get from being an athlete .	我回答 , 這肯定是個錯誤認同的例子 , 因為我的身分和身為運動員的身分差不多 。
actually , i wasn't even sure that i could go around the stadium without a walker .	事實上 , 我甚至不確定我可以在體育場四處走動 , 沒有助行器 。
i was told that this was no laughing matter .	我被告知這不是在笑的事 。
this would be the first time that only women would carry the olympic flag .	這是第一次 , 只有女性才能帶著奧運國旗 。
five women , representing five continents , and three olympic gold medal winners .	五位女性代表五大洲 , 三位奧林匹克金牌得主 。
my first question was , naturally , what was i going to wear ?	我的第一個問題是 , 自然而然地 , 我要穿什麼 ?
a uniform , she said , and asked for my measurements .	她說 , 一套制服 , 要求我的衡量標準 。
i had a vision of myself in a fluffy anorak , looking like the michelin man .	我對自己有著迷人的遠景 , 看起來像是米其林人 。
by the middle of february , i found myself in turin , where enthusiastic crowds cheered when any of the 80 olympic teams was in the street .	到了二月中期 , 我在杜林 , 熱情的群眾在街頭八十個奧林匹克的隊伍歡呼 。
those athletes had sacrificed everything to compete in the games .	那些運動員犧牲了所有在比賽中競爭的一切 。
they all deserved to win , but there's the element of luck .	他們都值得勝利 , 但運氣有其元素 。
a speck of snow , an inch of ice , the force of the wind , can determine the result of a race or a game .	一小片雪花 , 一英吋的冰 , 風的力量 , 可以決定比賽或比賽的結果 。
however , what matters most more than training or luck is the heart .	然而 , 最重要的是訓練或運氣是心臟 。
only a fearless and determined heart will get the gold medal .	只有無懼且堅定的心才會得到金牌 。
it is all about passion .	這一切都和熱情有關 。
the streets of turin were covered with red posters announcing the slogan of the olympics .	尿道上佈滿了紅色海報 , 宣佈奧林匹克的口號 。
passion lives here . isn't it always true ?	熱情就在這裡 , 不是嗎 ?
heart is what drives us and determines our fate .	心是驅使我們決定我們命運的原因 。
that is what i need for my characters in my books: a passionate heart .	這是我書中角色所需的:充滿熱情的心 。
i need mavericks , dissidents , adventurers , outsiders and rebels , who ask questions , bend the rules and take risks .	我需要有殘障人士、異議人士、冒險家、外部人 , 和叛逆份子 , 他們提出問題 , 彎曲規則 , 冒險 。
people like all of you in this room .	像在座各位一樣的人 。
nice people with common sense do not make interesting characters .	那些有常識的好人不會成為有趣的角色 。
they only make good former spouses .	他們只會交配好的前伴侶 。
in the green room of the stadium , i met the other flag bearers: three athletes , and the actresses susan sarandon and sophia loren .	在體育場的綠色房間裡 , 我遇見了其他旗幟師:三位運動員 , 演員蘇珊珊珊珊和蘇菲雅羅蘭 。
also , two women with passionate hearts: wangari maathai , the nobel prizewinner from kenya who has planted 30 million trees . and by doing so , she has changed the soil , the weather , in some places in africa , and of course the economic conditions in many villages .	此外 , 兩個有熱情心的女性:旺加里•馬塔伊 , 肯亞諾貝爾獎得主 , 她種下了三千萬棵樹 , 透過這麼做 , 她改變了土壤、氣候、在非洲的某些地方 , 當然也改變了許多村落的經濟狀況 。
and somaly mam , a cambodian activist who fights passionately against child prostitution .	柬埔寨行動主義者索馬利亞的行動主義者 , 積極地對抗兒童妓女 。
when she was 14 years old , her grandfather sold her to a brothel .	當她十四歲時 , 她的祖父把她賣給了妓院 。
she told us of little girls raped by men who believe that having sex with a very young virgin will cure them from aids .	她告訴我們 , 小女孩被男人強暴 , 男人相信和非常年輕的處女做愛 , 會治好愛滋病 。
and of brothels where children are forced to receive five , 15 clients per day , and if they rebel , they are tortured with electricity .	在那些被迫每天接收五、十五個客戶的妓院裡 , 如果他們反抗 , 他們就會被電擊折磨 。
in the green room i received my uniform .	在綠色房間裡 , 我拿到制服 。
it was not the kind of outfit that i normally wear , but it was far from the michelin man suit that i had anticipated . not bad , really .	這不是我平常穿的那種服裝 , 但那不是我所預期的米其林男裝所穿的那種服裝 , 真的是不錯的 。
i looked like a refrigerator .	我看起來像個冰箱 。
but so did most of the flagbearers , except sophia loren , the universal symbol of beauty and passion .	但大部分的旗幟 , 除了蘇菲雅羅蘭 , 普遍的美和熱情的象徵 。
sophia is over 70 and she looks great .	蘇菲雅70多歲 , 她看起來很棒 。
she's sexy , slim and tall , with a deep tan .	她很性感 , 很瘦 , 很高 , 有著很深的棕色 。
now , how can you have a deep tan and have no wrinkles ?	那麼 , 你要如何有一根深色的坦克車 , 沒有皺紋 ?
when asked in a tv interview , " how could she look so good ? "	當電視訪問問到: 「 她怎麼能看起來這麼好 ? 」
she replied , " posture . my back is always straight , and i don't make old people's noises . "	她回答: 「 姿勢 。 我的背永遠是直的 , 我不會製造老人的噪音 。 」
so , there you have some free advice from one of the most beautiful women on earth .	這裡有一些免費的建議 , 來自地球上最美麗的女性之一 。
no grunting , no coughing , no wheezing , no talking to yourselves , no farting .	沒有吵鬧 , 沒有咳嗽 , 沒有打招呼 , 沒有跟自己說話 , 沒有偏執偏見 。
well , she didn't say that exactly .	嗯 , 她並沒有那麼說 。
at some point around midnight , we were summoned to the wings of the stadium , and the loudspeakers announced the olympic flag , and the music started by the way , the same music that starts here , the aida march .	在午夜的時候 , 我們被召喚到體育場的翅膀 , 大聲說出了奧林匹克市旗 , 首先 , 音樂也是從這裡開始的 , 艾達遊行 。
sophia loren was right in front of me she's a foot taller than i am , not counting the poofy hair .	蘇菲雅羅蘭就在我面前 , 她比我還高 , 數不清頭髮 。
she walked elegantly , like a giraffe on the african savannah , holding the flag on her shoulder . i jogged behind on my tiptoes holding the flag on my extended arm , so that my head was actually under the damn flag .	她優雅地走路 , 像非洲大草原上的長頸鹿 , 肩上握著旗子 。 我在後面慢慢跑跑跑 , 手伸上支旗 , 這樣我的頭其實在該死的旗子底下 。
all the cameras were , of course , on sophia .	當然 , 所有的攝影機都在索菲亞 。
that was fortunate for me , because in most press photos i appear too , although often between sophia's legs .	這對我來說很幸運 , 因為在大部分的媒體照片中 , 我也出現了 , 雖然通常在蘇菲雅的腿之間 。
a place where most men would love to be .	一個大部分男人都很想去的地方 。
the best four minutes of my entire life were those in the olympic stadium .	我一生中最棒的四分鐘 , 都是在奧林匹克的體育場上的人 。
my husband is offended when i say this although i have explained to him that what we do in private usually takes less than four minutes so he shouldn't take it personally .	我老公很不高興我說這句話雖然我跟他解釋說我們私底下所做的事通常會花不到四分鐘 , 這樣他不該親身體驗
i have all the press clippings of those four magnificent minutes , because i don't want to forget them when old age destroys my brain cells .	每四分鐘 , 我都有媒體點擊 , 因為我不想忘記 , 當老年人摧毀我的腦細胞時 , 我不想忘記他們 。
i want to carry in my heart forever the key word of the olympics passion .	我想永遠帶著我心中的奧林匹克熱情的關鍵詞 。
so here's a tale of passion .	這裡有個充滿熱情的故事 。
the year is 1998 , the place is a prison camp for tutsi refugees in congo .	今年是1998年 , 那個地方是一座監獄裡的圖西族難民營 。
by the way , 80 percent of all refugees and displaced people in the world are women and girls .	順帶一提 , 世界上80%的難民和流離失所的人都是女人和女孩 。
we can call this place in congo a death camp , because those who are not killed will die of disease or starvation .	我們可以稱這個地方為剛果的死囚營 , 因為沒有被殺的人會死於疾病或餓死的人 。
the protagonists of this story are a young woman , rose mapendo , and her children .	這個故事的主角是一位年輕女子 , 蘿絲•瑪班多 , 她的孩子 。
she's pregnant and a widow .	她懷孕了 , 一個寡婦 。
soldiers have forced her to watch as her husband was tortured and killed .	士兵迫使她看著她的丈夫被虐待和殺害 。
somehow she manages to keep her seven children alive , and a few months later , she gives birth to premature twins .	不知何故 , 她能讓她七個孩子活下來 , 幾個月後 , 她產下早產的雙胞胎 。
two tiny little boys .	兩個小男孩 。
she cuts the umbilical cord with a stick , and ties it with her own hair .	她用棍子切斷臍帶 , 用自己的頭髮連起來 。
she names the twins after the camp's commanders to gain their favor , and feeds them with black tea because her milk cannot sustain them .	她以難民營指揮官的指揮官命名 , 以得到他們的喜好 , 用黑茶餵食 , 因為她的牛奶無法維持它們 。
when the soldiers burst in her cell to rape her oldest daughter , she grabs hold of her and refuses to let go , even when they hold a gun to her head .	當士兵衝進她的牢房 , 強暴她的大女兒時 , 她抓著她 , 拒絕放手 , 即使他們拿著槍抵著她的頭 。
somehow , the family survives for 16 months , and then , by extraordinary luck , and the passionate heart of a young american man , sasha chanoff , who manages to put her in a u . s . rescue plane , rose mapendo and her nine children end up in phoenix , arizona , where they're now living and thriving .	不知怎麼地 , 這個家庭存活了十六個月 , 接著 , 靠著非凡的運氣 , 還有一位年輕男子薩夏•查諾夫的熱心 , 他成功將她送上美國救援飛機 , 蘿絲•瑪班多和她的九個孩子 , 最後到了亞利桑納州鳳凰城 , 在那裡 , 他們現在居住並茁壯成長 。
mapendo , in swahili , means great love .	瑪班多 , 在斯瓦希里語 , 意味著偉大的愛 。
the protagonists of my books are strong and passionate women like rose mapendo .	我書裡的主角是堅強且充滿熱情的女性 , 像蘿絲•瑪班多 。
i don't make them up . there's no need for that .	我不編造它們 , 不需要它們 。
i look around and i see them everywhere .	我環顧四周 , 到處都看得到 。
i have worked with women and for women all my life .	我一生都在和女性合作 。
i know them well .	我對他們很熟悉 。
i was born in ancient times , at the end of the world , in a patriarchal catholic and conservative family .	我出生在古代 , 在世界末日 , 一個父權天主教和保守家庭 。
no wonder that by age five i was a raging feminist although the term had not reached chile yet , so nobody knew what the heck was wrong with me .	難怪到五歲時 , 我是個憤怒的女性主義者 , 雖然這個詞還沒有達到智利 , 所以沒有人知道我有什麼毛病 。
i would soon find out that there was a high price to pay for my freedom , and for questioning the patriarchy .	我很快就發現 , 為了我的自由 , 付出很高的代價 , 以及對父權主義提出質疑 。
but i was happy to pay it , because for every blow that i received , i was able to deliver two .	但我很高興能付出代價 , 因為每當我被擊中 , 我就能夠分出兩次 。
once , when my daughter paula was in her twenties , she said to me that feminism was dated , that i should move on .	有一次 , 當我的女兒保拉在二十多歲時 , 她告訴我 , 女權的約會 , 我應該繼續走下去 。
we had a memorable fight . feminism is dated ?	我們有一場值得紀念的戰爭 。 女性主義是約會的嗎 ?
yes , for privileged women like my daughter and all of us here today , but not for most of our sisters in the rest of the world who are still forced into premature marriage , prostitution , forced labor they have children that they don't want or they cannot feed .	是的 , 對於像我女兒和我們今天在這裡的特權女性來說 , 但對世界上大多數的姊妹來說 , 她們仍然被強迫成熟的婚姻、妓女、強迫她們的孩子們 , 她們不想要或無法進食 。
they have no control over their bodies or their lives .	他們無法掌控自己的身體或生活 。
they have no education and no freedom .	他們沒有教育 , 也沒有自由 。
they are raped , beaten up and sometimes killed with impunity .	他們被強暴、毆打 , 有時被罰款殺害 。
for most western young women of today , being called a feminist is an insult .	對於現今大部分西方的年輕女性來說 , 被稱為女性主義者是一種侮辱 。
feminism has never been sexy , but let me assure you that it never stopped me from flirting , and i have seldom suffered from lack of men .	女權主義從未如此性感 , 但讓我向各位保證 , 它永遠不會阻止我調情 , 我也不會因為缺乏男性而受苦 。
feminism is not dead , by no means .	女權主義已經消失了 , 絕對沒有 。
it has evolved . if you don't like the term , change it , for goddess' sake .	它已經進化了 , 如果你不喜歡這個名詞 , 改變它 , 為了女神的天性 。
call it aphrodite , or venus , or bimbo , or whatever you want ; the name doesn't matter , as long as we understand what it is about , and we support it .	稱之為 「 蚜蟲 」 , 或 「 金星 」 , 或 「 金寶 」 , 或 「 隨便你叫什麼名字 , 只要我們了解它是什麼 , 就會支持它 。
so here's another tale of passion , and this is a sad one .	這裡還有另一個充滿熱情的故事 , 這是個悲傷的故事 。
the place is a small women's clinic in a village in bangladesh .	這個地方是孟加拉的一個小型婦女診所 。
the year is 2005 .	今年是2005年 。
jenny is a young american dental hygienist who has gone to the clinic as a volunteer during her threeweek vacation .	珍妮是一位年輕的美國牙醫 , 在她三週假期的假期間 , 曾到診所當志工 。
she's prepared to clean teeth , but when she gets there , she finds out that there are no doctors , no dentists , and the clinic is just a hut full of flies .	她準備好了乾淨的牙齒 , 但她到了那裡時 , 她發現沒有醫生 , 沒有牙醫 , 診所就只是一間蒼蠅的小屋 。
outside , there is a line of women who have waited several hours to be treated .	在外面 , 有一排女人 , 她們已經等了數小時才得到治療 。
the first patient is in excruciating pain because she has several rotten molars .	第一位病人處於極度痛苦中 , 因為她有數個腐敗的圓柱 。
jenny realizes that the only solution is to pull out the bad teeth .	珍妮意識到唯一的解決方案就是拔掉不好的牙齒 。
she's not licensed for that ; she has never done it .	她沒有執照 , 她從來沒有這樣做過 。
she risks a lot and she's terrified .	她很常冒險 , 她很害怕 。
she doesn't even have the proper instruments , but fortunately she has brought some novocaine .	她甚至沒有適當的樂器 , 但幸運的是 , 她帶來了一些非古柯鹼 。
jenny has a brave and passionate heart .	珍妮有顆勇敢且熱情的心 。
she murmurs a prayer and she goes ahead with the operation .	她祈禱過來 , 祈禱過來 , 開始行動 。
at the end , the relieved patient kisses her hands .	最後 , 病人鬆了一口氣 , 親了她的手 。
that day the hygienist pulls out many more teeth .	那天 , 海生衛生組織拔出更多的牙 。
the next morning , when she comes again to the socalled clinic , her first patient is waiting for her with her husband .	隔天早上 , 當她再次來到所謂的診所時 , 她的第一位病人在等著她丈夫 。
the woman's face looks like a watermelon .	這位女士的臉看起來像個西瓜 。
it is so swollen that you can't even see the eyes .	腫大到看不見眼睛 。
the husband , furious , threatens to kill the american .	丈夫很憤怒 , 很威脅要殺掉美國人 。
jenny is horrified at what she has done , but then the translator explains that the patient's condition has nothing to do with the operation .	珍妮被她所做的事嚇壞了 , 但翻譯員解釋說病人的狀況和手術沒有關係 。
the day before , her husband beat her up because she was not home in time to prepare dinner for him .	前一天 , 她的丈夫打她 , 因為她沒有及時準備晚餐給他 。
millions of women live like this today .	現今有數百萬的女性都住在這樣的生活中 。
they are the poorest of the poor .	他們是最窮的人 。
although women do twothirds of the world's labor , they own less than one percent of the world's assets .	雖然世界上三分之二的勞動女性只能擁有不到1%的全球資產 。
they are paid less than men for the same work if they're paid at all , and they remain vulnerable because they have no economic independence , and they are constantly threatened by exploitation , violence and abuse .	他們比男性薪水低於男性 , 如果他們薪水不高 , 他們仍然很脆弱 , 因為他們沒有經濟獨立 , 而且他們經常受到剝削、暴力和虐待的威脅 。
it is a fact that giving women education , work , the ability to control their own income , inherit and own property , benefits the society .	事實是 , 給予婦女教育、工作、控制自己收入的能力、繼承和擁有財產的能力 , 讓社會受惠 。
if a woman is empowered , her children and her family will be better off .	如果一個女人有能力 , 她的孩子和家人就會變得更好 。
if families prosper , the village prospers , and eventually so does the whole country .	如果家屬繁榮 , 村落就會繁榮 , 最終整個國家也一樣 。
wangari maathai goes to a village in kenya .	waangarimaathai到肯亞的一個村落
she talks with the women and explains that the land is barren because they have cut and sold the trees .	她和婦女談話 , 解釋土地是貧瘠的 , 因為他們已經切割和賣掉了樹木 。
she gets the women to plant new trees and water them , drop by drop .	她讓婦女們種植新的樹木 , 用水灌溉 , 一滴地滴下來 。
in a matter of five or six years , they have a forest , the soil is enriched , and the village is saved .	大概五六年左右 , 他們有一片森林 , 土壤被豐富 , 村落被拯救了 。
the poorest and most backward societies are always those that put women down .	最貧窮、最退化的社會 , 往往是那些讓女性失望的社會 。
yet this obvious truth is ignored by governments and also by philanthropy .	但這個顯而易見的真相卻被政府忽略 , 也被慈善事業忽略 。
for every dollar given to a women's program , 20 dollars are given to men's programs .	每一美元 , 女性的方案就有20美元被頒給男性的方案 。
women are 51 percent of humankind .	女性有51%的人類 。
empowering them will change everything more than technology and design and entertainment .	給予他們能力 , 比科技、設計和娛樂 , 更能改變一切 。
i can promise you that women working together linked , informed and educated can bring peace and prosperity to this forsaken planet .	我可以向各位保證 , 女性同心協力 , 一起工作連結、有知識、受過教育的女性 , 能夠為這個星球帶來和平和繁榮 。
in any war today , most of the casualties are civilians , mainly women and children . they are collateral damage .	在今天的任何戰爭中 , 大部分的傷亡者是平民百姓 , 主要是婦女和孩童 , 她們是間接的傷害 。
men run the world , and look at the mess we have .	男人主導世界 , 看看我們有什麼問題 。
what kind of world do we want ?	我們想要什麼樣的世界 ?
this is a fundamental question that most of us are asking .	這是我們大部分人都在問的根本問題 。
does it make sense to participate in the existing world order ?	參與現有的世界秩序是合理的嗎 ?
we want a world where life is preserved and the quality of life is enriched for everybody , not only for the privileged .	我們想要一個世界 , 在那裡 , 生命是被保存下來的 , 而生活品質也被每個人豐富 , 不只是為了享有特權而已 。
in january i saw an exhibit of fernando botero's paintings at the uc berkeley library .	一月時 , 我看到費南多•波特奧在加州大學柏克萊圖書館的畫展 。
no museum or gallery in the united states , except for the new york gallery that carries botero's work , has dared to show the paintings because the theme is the abu ghraib prison .	在美國 , 沒有博物館或畫廊 , 除了紐約畫廊的畫廊 , 那些畫有巴特羅的作品 , 沒有勇於展示這些畫作 , 因為主題是阿布格拉伊波監獄 。
they are huge paintings of torture and abuse of power , in the voluminous botero style .	他們是巨大的畫作 , 充滿了酷刑和權力的虐待 , 以有聲無聲的巴特羅風格 。
i have not been able to get those images out of my mind or my heart .	我無法將這些影像從我心中或我的心中移除 。
what i fear most is power with impunity .	我最害怕的是用懲罰的力量 。
i fear abuse of power , and the power to abuse .	我害怕濫用權力 , 以及濫用權力的權力 。
in our species , the alpha males define reality , and force the rest of the pack to accept that reality and follow the rules .	在我們這個物種中 , 雄性領袖定義了現實 , 迫使其餘的群體接受現實 , 並遵循規則 。
the rules change all the time , but they always benefit them , and in this case , the trickledown effect , which does not work in economics , works perfectly .	規則一直在改變 , 但總是有好處 , 這種情況下 , 在經濟學中 , 無法完美地運作的 「 下滲效應 」 。
abuse trickles down from the top of the ladder to the bottom .	從上往下滲到下層 , 虐待人 。
women and children , especially the poor , are at the bottom .	女人和孩子 , 尤其是窮人 , 都在最底層 。
even the most destitute of men have someone they can abuse a woman or a child .	即使是最卑鄙的男人也有人可以虐待女人或小孩 。
i'm fed up with the power that a few exert over the many through gender , income , race , and class .	我被灌輸的力量是 , 少數人透過性別、收入、種族 , 及階級的力量 。
i think that the time is ripe to make fundamental changes in our civilization .	我認為 , 該是時候了 , 能夠在我們的文明中做出根本性的改變 。
but for real change , we need feminine energy in the management of the world .	但為了真正的改變 , 我們需要在世界的管理上 , 女性的能量 。
we need a critical number of women in positions of power , and we need to nurture the feminine energy in men .	我們需要關鍵的女性掌握權力 , 我們需要培養男性女性化的能量 。
i'm talking about men with young minds , of course .	當然 , 我指的是有年輕心智的男人 。
old guys are hopeless ; we have to wait for them to die off .	老人沒希望 , 我們得等著他們死去 。
yes , i would love to have sophia loren's long legs and legendary breasts .	是的 , 我想要擁有蘇菲雅羅蘭的長腿和傳說中的母乳 。
but given a choice , i would rather have the warrior hearts of wangari maathai , somaly mam , jenny and rose mapendo .	但要做選擇 , 我寧願有勇敢的心 , 如瑪麗•瑪太、索馬利•瑪太、珍妮和蘿絲•瑪太 。
i want to make this world good .	我想要讓這個世界變好 。
not better , but to make it good .	不是更好 , 而是讓它變好 。
why not ? it is possible . look around in this room all this knowledge , energy , talent and technology .	為什麼不呢 ? 這是有可能的 。 看看這房間內的這些知識、能源、人才和科技 。
let's get off our fannies , roll up our sleeves and get to work , passionately , in creating an almost perfect world .	讓我們擺脫我們的粉絲 , 捲起袖子 , 激情地工作 , 創造一個近乎完美的世界 。
every day , in a city the size of london , 30 million meals are served . but where does all the food come from ? architect carolyn steel discusses the daily miracle of feeding a city , and shows how ancient food routes shaped the modern world .	每天 , 在倫敦這麼大的城市中 , 有三千萬份餐是供應的 , 但所有食物都來自哪裡 ? 建築師鋼鐵會討論每天供應食物的奇蹟 , 展現古老的食物路線如何塑造現代世界 。
cities , culture , food , global issues	城市、文化、食物、全球議題 。
carolyn steel: how food shapes our cities	卡洛琳鋼鐵:食物如何形塑我們的城市 。
how do you feed a city ?	要如何餵飽一個城市 ?
it's one of the great questions of our time .	這是我們這個時代的一個大問題 。
yet it's one that's rarely asked .	但很少被問到這個問題 。
we take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant , or indeed into this theater's foyer in about an hour's time , there is going to be food there waiting for us , having magically come from somewhere .	我們視為理所當然 , 如果我們走進一間商店或餐廳 , 或是在一小時內進入這間戲院的門廳 , 就會有食物在那等著我們 , 奇蹟般地從某個地方來 。
but when you think that every day for a city the size of london , enough food has to be produced , transported , bought and sold , cooked , eaten , disposed of , and that something similar has to happen every day for every city on earth , it's remarkable that cities get fed at all .	但 , 當你認為 , 倫敦這麼大的城市 , 每天都要產出足夠的食物 , 運輸、買、賣、賣、吃、丟棄 , 同樣的事每天都要發生 , 地球上每個城市的食物 , 都很了不起 , 城市的食物會被吃掉 。
we live in places like this as if they're the most natural things in the world , forgetting that because we're animals and that we need to eat , we're actually as dependent on the natural world as our ancient ancestors were .	我們生活在這樣的地方 , 彷彿他們是世界上最自然的東西 , 忘了 , 因為我們是動物 , 我們需要進食 , 事實上 , 我們對自然界的依賴 , 和我們的古老祖先一樣 。
and as more of us move into cities , more of that natural world is being transformed into extraordinary landscapes like the one behind me it's soybean fields in mato grosso in brazil in order to feed us .	隨著更多人搬到城市中 , 更多的自然世界被轉化為非凡的景觀 , 就像我身後的景觀一樣 , 在巴西的馬托格羅斯諾的大豆田野為了餵飽我們 。
these are extraordinary landscapes , but few of us ever get to see them .	這些景觀是非凡的 , 但很少人見過這些景觀 。
and increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either .	日益增加的景觀不僅僅是為我們提供食物 。
as more of us move into cities , more of us are eating meat , so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals .	當更多人搬進城市時 , 更多人會吃肉 , 全球每年三分之一的穀物正在被餵給動物 , 而非我們人類 。
and given that it takes three times as much grain actually ten times as much grain to feed a human if it's passed through an animal first , that's not a very efficient way of feeding us .	既然它需要三倍的穀物 , 實際上是十倍的穀物 , 才能餵飽一個人 , 如果它先經過動物的話 , 那就不是非常有效率的餵食方式 。
and it's an escalating problem too .	這也是一個正在逐漸惡化的問題 。
by 2050 , it's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities .	到2050年 , 估計我們居住在城市的兩倍之多 。
and it's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed .	據估計 , 肉類和乳製品的消耗量會增加兩倍 。
so meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand .	所以 , 肉類和城市化的需求在逐漸增加 。
and that's going to pose an enormous problem .	這將造成一個巨大的問題 。
six billion hungry carnivores to feed , by 2050 .	到2050年 , 六十億個肚子餓著的肉食動物 。
that's a big problem . and actually if we carry on as we are , it's a problem we're very unlikely to be able to solve .	這是個大問題 。 實際上 , 如果我們像現在一樣堅持下去 , 這是個我們無法解決的問題 。
nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land .	每年有九千萬公頃的熱帶雨林消失 , 造成了新的耕地 。
although at the same time we're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion .	儘管同時我們也失去了大量的耕種 , 足以讓鹹化和侵蝕發生 。
we're very hungry for fossil fuels too .	我們也很渴望化石燃料 。
it takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the west .	西方所消耗的每一卡路里大約需要十卡卡路里的食物 。
and even though there is food that we are producing at great cost , we don't actually value it .	雖然我們所生產的食物非常昂貴 , 我們卻不重視它 。
half the food produced in the usa is currently thrown away .	半數在美國生產的食物被丟棄了 。
and to end all of this , at the end of this long process , we're not even managing to feed the planet properly .	總之 , 在這個漫長的過程中 , 我們甚至無法適當地餵食這個星球 。
a billion of us are obese , while a further billion starve .	十億人過胖 , 卻有十億人挨餓 。
none of it makes very much sense .	這一切都不合理 。
and when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations , it's a grim picture .	想想現在全球百分之八十的糧食交易只由五個跨國企業所控制 , 這是個很殘酷的照片 。
as we're moving into cities , the world is also embracing a western diet .	當我們進入城市時 , 世界也接受了西方人的飲食 。
and if we look to the future , it's an unsustainable diet .	如果我們看向未來 , 它是一種不永續的飲食 。
so how did we get here ?	我們是怎麼走到這一步的 ?
and more importantly , what are we going to do about it ?	更重要的是 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , to answer the slightly easier question first , about 10 , 000 years ago , i would say , is the beginning of this process in the ancient near east , known as the fertile crescent .	首先 , 稍微簡單一點的問題 , 大約一萬年前 , 我會說 , 是這個過程的開始 , 是在古老的近東 , 也就是所謂的近東 。
because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .	因為 , 如你所見 , 它是近期的形狀 。
and it was also fertile .	而且它也很肥沃 。
and it was here , about 10 , 000 years ago , that two extraordinary inventions , agriculture and urbanism , happened roughly in the same place and at the same time .	大約一萬年前 , 在這裡 , 兩項非凡的發明 , 農業和城市化 , 發生在同一地點 , 同時發生 。
this is no accident , because agriculture and cities are bound together . they need each other .	這不是意外 , 因為農業和城市都聚集在一起 , 他們需要彼此 。
because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements .	因為它是由我們古代的祖先第一次發現穀物所產生的 , 產生出足夠大且穩定的食物來源 , 足以支撐永久居住 。
and if we look at what those settlements were like , we see they were compact .	如果我們看看這些居住地是怎樣的 , 我們看到它們是緊密的 。
they were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at ur , that were , in fact , effectively , spiritualized , central food distribution centers .	它們被生產式農場的土地包圍 , 被像烏爾這樣的大型神殿主導 , 實際上 , 精神分配中心 , 中央食物分配中心 。
because it was the temples that organized the harvest , gathered in the grain , offered it to the gods , and then offered the grain that the gods didn't eat back to the people .	因為是神廟 , 整理收割 , 聚集在穀物裡 , 向眾神獻上 , 然後給予眾神不讓眾神吃下的穀物 。
so , if you like , the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them .	所以 , 若你想 , 這些城市的所有靈性和實體生活 , 都是由維持它們的穀類和收穫所主導 。
and in fact , that's true of every ancient city .	事實上 , 每個古老的城市都是如此 。
but of course not all of them were that small .	但 , 當然 , 並非全部都是那麼小 。
famously , rome had about a million citizens by the first century a . d .	最有名的是 , 在第一世紀 , 羅馬就有大約一百萬個公民 。
so how did a city like this feed itself ?	像這樣的城市是如何自給自足的 ?
the answer is what i call " ancient food miles . "	答案就是我所謂的 「 古老的食物路線 」 。
basically , rome had access to the sea , which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away .	基本上 , 羅馬能夠接觸到海 , 讓它能夠從非常遠的距離來進口食物 。
this is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world , because it was very difficult to transport food over roads , which were rough .	這是唯一能做到這一點的方式 , 在古老世界中 , 因為要把食物運送到馬路上是很困難的 。
and the food obviously went off very quickly .	食物很快就消失了 。
so rome effectively waged war on places like carthage and egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves .	所以羅馬有效地發動戰爭 , 在像carthage和埃及等地點打仗 , 只為了在穀物保留區取得他們的爪子 。
and , in fact , you could say that the expansion of the empire was really sort of one long , drawn out militarized shopping spree , really .	事實上 , 你可以說 , 整個帝國的擴張其實有點像是一個長期的 , 被軍事化的購物精力所吸引 。
in fact i love the fact , i just have to mention this: rome in fact used to import oysters from london , at one stage . i think that's extraordinary .	事實上 , 我很喜歡這個事實 , 我只需要提一下:羅馬從倫敦進口牡蠣 , 在某個階段 , 我覺得這很不尋常 。
so rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite .	羅馬用它的食慾來塑造它的後陸 。
but the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the preindustrial world .	但有趣的是 , 另一件事也發生在工業化前的世界 。
if we look at a map of london in the 17th century , we can see that its grain , which is coming in from the thames , along the bottom of this map .	如果我們看一下十七世紀的倫敦地圖 , 我們可以看到它的穀物 , 是從泰晤士河來的 , 沿著這張地圖的底部 。
so the grain markets were to the south of the city .	所以穀物市場就在這個城市的南方 。
and the roads leading up from them to cheapside , which was the main market , were also grain markets .	這條道路從它們到廉價的道路 , 也就是主要的市場 , 也是穀物市場 。
and if you look at the name of one of those streets , bread street , you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago .	如果你看看這些街道的名稱 , 麵包街 , 你可以知道三百年前在那裏發生了什麼事 。
and the same of course was true for fish .	當然 , 魚也是如此 。
fish was , of course , coming in by river as well . same thing .	當然 , 魚也來到河裡 , 也是一樣的 。
and of course billingsgate , famously , was london's fish market , operating onsite here until the mid1980s .	當然 , 比林斯大道很有名 , 是倫敦的魚市場 , 一直到1980年代中期 , 一直在運作 。
which is extraordinary , really , when you think about it .	仔細想想 , 這真是太不尋常了 。
everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port .	其他人都帶著看起來像磚頭的行動電話到處遊蕩 , 有點像在港口發生的小魚 。
this is another thing about food in cities: once its roots into the city are established , they very rarely move .	在城市裡 , 食物還有一件事:一旦食物進城市的根部被建立起來 , 它們就很難移動 。
meat is a very different story because , of course , animals could walk into the city .	肉品是一個很不一樣的故事 , 因為 , 當然 , 動物可以走進這個城市 。
so much of london's meat was coming from the northwest , from scotland and wales .	倫敦大部分的肉都來自西北部 , 蘇格蘭和威爾斯 。
so it was coming in , and arriving at the city at the northwest , which is why smithfield , london's very famous meat market , was located up there .	所以它來了 , 抵達倫敦的西北部 , 這就是為什麼史密斯菲爾德 , 倫敦非常有名的肉市場 , 位在那 。
poultry was coming in from east anglia and so on , to the northeast .	家禽從東安格利亞進來 , 一直到東北方 。
i feel a bit like a weather woman doing this . anyway , and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes .	我覺得有點像一個氣象女人在做這件事 。 總之 , 鳥兒也跟著腳踏進 , 保護著小小的帆布鞋 。
and then when they hit the eastern end of cheapside , that's where they were sold , which is why it's called poultry .	當他們到達便宜的東端時 , 便是他們賣的地方 , 叫做 「 波爾圖 」 。
and , in fact , if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age , you can trace food coming in to it .	事實上 , 如果你看看任何城市的地圖在工業時代之前 , 你可以追蹤食物的來源 。
you can actually see how it was physically shaped by food , both by reading the names of the streets , which give you a lot of clues .	你可以實際看到它是如何被食物所塑造的 , 不論是閱讀街頭的名稱 , 給你很多線索 。
friday street , in a previous life , is where you went to buy your fish on a friday .	星期五街 , 在前一輩 , 是你在星期五去買你的魚的地方 。
but also you have to imagine it full of food .	但你也要想像它充滿了食物 。
because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold .	因為街道和公共場所是唯一一個購買食物的地方 。
and if we look at an image of smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from .	如果我們看看1830年的史密斯菲爾德的形象 , 你可以看到 , 很難住在這樣的城市 , 且無法意識到你的食物從何而來 。
in fact , if you were having sunday lunch , the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier .	事實上 , 如果你在做星期日午餐 , 可能有三天前你窗戶外的心情或出血 。
so this was obviously an organic city , part of an organic cycle .	這顯然是一個有機的城市 , 是有機循環的一部分 。
and then 10 years later everything changed .	十年後 , 一切都改變了 。
this is an image of the great western in 1840 .	這是1840年大西部的照片 。
and as you can see , some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep .	如你所見 , 最早的火車乘客當中有一些是豬和羊 。
so all of a sudden , these animals are no longer walking into market .	突然間 , 這些動物不再走進市場 。
they're being slaughtered out of sight and mind , somewhere in the countryside .	他們在視力和心智方面被屠殺 , 在鄉間的某處 。
and they're coming into the city by rail .	他們是用鐵軌來到這個城市 。
and this changes everything .	這改變了一切 。
to start off with , it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities , really any size and shape , in any place .	首先 , 它讓它第一次能夠在任何地方種植大小和形狀的城市 。
cities used to be constrained by geography ; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means .	過去城市被地理限制住 ; 過去 , 必須透過非常困難的身體手段取得食物 。
all of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography .	突然間 , 它們就從地理分析中解放了 。
and as you can see from these maps of london , in the 90 years after the trains came , it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot , and so on , to a large splurge , that would be very , very difficult to feed with anybody on foot , either animals or people .	正如你從倫敦的地圖上所看到的 , 在火車來襲的90年後 , 倫敦的地圖從動物們進來的一小塊開始 , 很容易餵飽牠們的小點 , 以此類推 , 如此如此 , 非常難以餵飽任何人的腳 , 無論是動物還是人 。
and of course that was just the beginning . after the trains came cars , and really this marks the end of this process .	當然這只是開端 。 火車來了之後 , 這真的是這過程的結尾 。
it's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all .	這是這座城市最後的解放 , 從任何與大自然的關係中解放出來 。
and this is the kind of city that's devoid of smell , devoid of mess , certainly devoid of people , because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape .	這是那種沒有氣味、沒有混亂的城市 , 當然也沒有人 , 因為沒有人會夢想走在這樣的地景中走路 。
in fact , what they did to get food was they got in their cars , drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts , came back with a week's worth of shopping , and wondered what on earth to do with it .	事實上 , 他們把食物送到他們的車裡 , 開到郊區某處的一個箱子裡 , 帶回一週的購物 , 納悶著該怎麼做 。
and this really is the moment when our relationship , both with food and cities , changes completely .	此時此刻 , 我們與食物和城市的關係 , 徹底改變了 。
here we have food that used to be the center , the social core of the city at the periphery .	過去 , 我們有食物是中心 , 是城市的社會核心 , 位在邊緣 。
it used to be a social event , buying and selling food .	它曾經是一個社交活動 , 購買和賣食物 。
we used to cook ; now we just add water , or a little bit of an egg if you're making a cake or something .	我們以前會做菜 , 現在只要加點水 , 或加點點蛋 , 如果你在做蛋糕之類的 。
we don't smell food to see if it's okay to eat .	我們不會聞到食物 , 看看是否可以吃 。
we just read the back of a label on a packet .	我們只是把標籤貼在包裝上 。
and we don't value food . we don't trust it .	我們不重視食物 。 我們不信任它 。
so instead of trusting it , we fear it .	所以 , 我們不再信任它 , 我們害怕它 。
and instead of valuing it , we throw it away .	我們不再珍視它 , 而是把它丟掉 。
one of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder .	現代食品系統的諷刺之處在於他們已經做出承諾要讓事情變得更容易 。
by making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place , they've actually distanced us from our most important relationship , which is that of us and nature .	藉由使它可以在任何地方、任何地方建立城市 , 它們確實使我們遠離了最重要的關係 , 也就是我們和自然的關係 。
and also they've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver , that , as we've seen , are unsustainable .	而且 , 它們也讓我們依賴的體制 , 只有它們能提供 , 如我們所見 , 它們是無法永續的 。
so what are we going to do about that ?	所以 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
it's not a new question .	這不是個新問題 。
500 years ago it's what thomas more was asking himself .	五百年前 , 湯瑪斯•摩爾問他自己 ,
this is the frontispiece of his book " utopia . "	這是他的著作《烏托邦》的前面 。
and it was a series of semiindependent citystates , if that sounds remotely familiar , a day's walk from one another where everyone was basically farmingmad , and grew vegetables in their back gardens , and ate communal meals together , and so on .	這是一系列半獨立的城邦 , 如果那聽起來很熟悉 , 每天從一個地方散步 , 每個人都有農作物 , 家後院種植蔬菜 , 一起享用共享餐點等等 。
and i think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of utopia , even though more never framed it that way .	我想 , 你們可以說食物是烏托邦的基本規則 , 即便是更多人從來沒有這樣做過 。
and here is another very famous " utopian " vision , that of ebenezer howard , " the garden city . "	這是另一個非常著名的烏托邦的願景 , 伊伯內茲霍華的作品 , 《花園城市》 。
same idea: series of semiindependent citystates , little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around , joined to one another by railway .	相同的概念:一系列半獨立的城市 , 都市裡的小型都會區 , 周圍有可耕作的土地 , 用鐵路連接在一起 。
and again , food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision .	再一次 , 食物可以被說是他視覺的有秩序原則 。
it even got built , but nothing to do with this vision that howard had .	它甚至被建造出來了 , 但和霍華所擁有的這個遠景沒什麼關係 。
and that is the problem with these utopian ideas , that they are utopian .	這就是這些烏托邦思想的問題 , 他們是烏托邦 。
utopia was actually a word that thomas moore used deliberately .	烏托邦其實是個詞 , 湯瑪斯•摩爾故意使用這個詞 。
it was a kind of joke , because it's got a double derivation from the greek .	這是個笑話 , 因為希臘語有雙重衍生 。
it can either mean a good place , or no place .	它可以意味著一個好地方 , 或不在任何地方 。
because it's an ideal . it's an imaginary thing . we can't have it .	因為那是很理想的 。 這是假想的 。 我們無法擁有它 。
and i think , as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling , that makes it not much use .	我認為 , 作為一個概念性的工具 , 用來思考人類居住地最深刻的問題 , 這樣就不太有用了 。
so i've come up with an alternative , which is sitopia , from the ancient greek , " sitos " for food , and " topos " for place .	所以我想出了一個替代方案 , 來自希托邦 , 古希托邦 , 「 食物 」 , 「 地點 」 。
i believe we already live in sitopia .	我相信我們已經生活在希托邦了 。
we live in a world shaped by food , and if we realize that , we can use food as a really powerful tool a conceptual tool , design tool , to shape the world differently .	我們生活在一個由食物塑造的世界 , 如果我們了解到 , 我們可以把食物當作一個非常強大的工具──一個概念性工具 , 設計工具 , 用不同的方式塑造世界 。
so if we were to do that , what might sitopia look like ?	如果我們這樣做 , 希托邦會長什麼樣子 ?
well i think it looks a bit like this .	我覺得這看起來有點像這樣 。
i have to use this slide . it's just the look on the face of the dog .	我要用這張投影片 , 只是狗的臉上的表情 。
but anyway , this is it's food at the center of life , at the center of family life , being celebrated , being enjoyed , people taking time for it .	總之 , 這是生命的中心 , 在家庭生活的中心 , 被讚頌的 , 被享受的 , 人們花時間為它奮鬥 。
this is where food should be in our society .	食物就在我們的社會裡 。
but you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this .	但除非有像這樣的人 , 否則你不能有這樣的場景 。
by the way , these can be men as well .	順帶一提 , 這也可以是男性 。
it's people who think about food , who think ahead , who plan , who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them .	人們會想到食物 , 會想 , 先計畫 , 誰能盯著一堆生菜 , 實際認可他們 。
we need these people . we're part of a network .	我們需要這些人 , 我們是網路的一部份 。
because without these kinds of people we can't have places like this .	因為如果沒有這種人 , 我們就沒有這種地方 。
here , i deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable .	這裡 , 我刻意這樣選 , 因為那是一個男人買蔬菜 。
but networks , markets where food is being grown locally .	但網路、市場 , 食物在當地生長 。
it's common . it's fresh .	很普遍 , 很新鮮 。
it's part of the social life of the city .	它是社交生活的一部分 。
because without that , you can't have this kind of place , food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape , and is not just a zerosum commodity off in some unseen hellhole .	因為沒有了這些 , 你就不可能有這種地方 , 當地種植的食物 , 也是當地種植的 , 也是風景的一部分 , 不只是在看不見的地獄裡的零和商品 。
cows with a view .	牛群有一種看法 。
steaming piles of humus .	蒸汽堆積如山 。
this is basically bringing the whole thing together .	這基本上是把整個過程結合在一起 。
and this is a community project i visited recently in toronto .	這是我最近在多倫多參觀的一個社區計畫 。
it's a greenhouse , where kids get told all about food and growing their own food .	這是一間溫室 , 孩子們被告知所有的食物 , 自己種食物 。
here is a plant called kevin , or maybe it's a plant belonging to a kid called kevin . i don't know .	這是一株叫做凱文的植物 , 或者它屬於凱文的孩子 , 我不知道 。
but anyway , these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important .	總之 , 這些試圖與大自然重新連結的計劃是非常重要的 。
so sitopia , for me , is really a way of seeing .	所以 , 希托邦 , 對我而言 , 是一種看待的方式 。
it's basically recognizing that sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere .	基本上 , 意識到 , 希托邦已經存在於各地的小口袋裡 。
the trick is to join them up , to use food as a way of seeing .	訣竅在於加入他們 , 把食物當作一種看法 。
and if we do that , we're going to stop seeing cities as big , metropolitan , unproductive blobs , like this .	如果我們這樣做 , 我們就不再把城市看作是大的、大都市化的、沒生產力的區塊 , 像這樣 。
we're going to see them more like this , as part of the productive , organic framework of which they are inevitably a part , symbiotically connected .	我們會把它們看作是這樣 , 它是生產力、有機架構的一部分 , 無可避免地 , 與它們相連 。
but of course , that's not a great image either , because we need not to be producing food like this anymore .	當然 , 這也不是很好的圖像 , 因為我們不需要再這樣生產食物了 。
we need to be thinking more about permaculture , which is why i think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing .	我們需要更深入思考永續栽培 , 這就是為什麼我認為這張圖可以總結出我們該做的事 。
it's a reconceptualization of the way food shapes our lives .	這是對食物如何塑造我們的生活的一種觀念 。
the best image i know of this is from 650 years ago .	我所知道的最好的圖像 , 是650年前的 。
it's ambrogio lorenzetti's " allegory of good government . "	安布羅吉歐•羅倫澤蒂的《良好政府的寓言》
it's about the relationship between the city and the countryside .	重點是城市與鄉村之間的關係 。
and i think the message of this is very clear .	我認為這個訊息非常清楚 。
if the city looks after the country , the country will look after the city .	如果城市照顧這個國家 , 這個國家會照顧這個城市 。
and i want us to ask now , what would ambrogio lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today ?	現在我想問大家 , 安布羅吉歐•羅倫澤蒂的油漆是怎樣的如果他今天畫了這張圖 ?
what would an allegory of good government look like today ?	如今良好政府的寓言會是什麼樣子 ?
because i think it's an urgent question .	因為我認為這是一個很迫切的問題 。
it's one we have to ask , and we have to start answering .	這是我們必須問的問題 , 我們必須開始回答 。
we know we are what we eat .	我們知道我們是吃什麼的 。
we need to realize that the world is also what we eat .	我們需要了解 , 世界也是我們所吃的 。
but if we take that idea , we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better .	但如果我們把這個點子用作是非常強大的工具 , 來改善世界的形狀 。
weeks from the charter for compassion launch , karen armstrong looks at religion's role in the 21st century: will its dogmas divide us ? or will it unite us for common good ? she reviews the catalysts that can drive the world's faiths to rediscover the golden rule .	同情心發行的幾週後 , 凱倫阿姆斯壯在二十一世紀 , 探究宗教角色:它的教條能否分裂我們 ? 還是它會讓我們團結在一起 ? 她會檢視能驅使世界的信仰重新找回信念的催化劑 。
god , ted prize , global issues , politics , religion , tedglobal2009 , violence	上帝 , ted大獎 , 全球議題 , 政治 , 宗教 , tedglobal2009年的tedglobal , 暴力 。
karen armstrong: let's revive the golden rule	karenarmstrong:咱們先從黃金法則開始吧 。
for years i've been feeling frustrated , because as a religious historian , i've become acutely aware of the centrality of compassion in all the major world faiths .	多年來 , 我一直感到沮喪 , 因為身為一個宗教歷史學家 , 我突然意識到同情心的核心 , 在世界上所有的大宗教信仰中 。
every single one of them has evolved their own version of what's been called the golden rule .	每一個人都演化出自己所謂的黃金法則 。
sometimes it comes in a positive version " always treat all others as you'd like to be treated yourself . "	有時 , 會有正面的版本 「 總是對待別人 , 只要你想要對待自己 。 」
and equally important is the negative version " don't do to others what you would not like them to do to you . "	同樣重要的是 , 負面的版本 「 不要對其他人做你不希望他們做的事 。 」
look into your own heart , discover what it is that gives you pain and then refuse , under any circumstance whatsoever , to inflict that pain on anybody else .	看看你的心 , 去了解它是什麼讓你疼痛 , 然後拒絕 , 在任何情況下 , 去衝突別人的疼痛 。
and people have emphasized the importance of compassion , not just because it sounds good , but because it works .	人們很重視同情心的重要性 , 不只是因為它聽起來很棒 , 而是因為它有用 。
people have found that when they have implemented the golden rule as confucius said , " all day and every day , " not just a question of doing your good deed for the day and then returning to a life of greed and egotism , but to do it all day and every day , you dethrone yourself from the center of your world , put another there , and you transcend yourself .	人們發現 , 當他們實施了 「 孔子的黃金法則 」 時 , 如孔子所說: 「 整天、每天 」 , 不只是在做好事而已 , 再回到貪婪和自我意識的一生中 , 而是一整天都在做這件事 , 把自己從世界的中心剝奪走 , 再來 , 超越自己 。
and it brings you into the presence of what's been called god , nirvana , rama , tao .	它為你帶來了一種名為 「 神 」 、 「 涅 」 、 「 涅 」 、 「 道 」 的存在 。
something that goes beyond what we know in our egobound existence .	超越我們所知的超越了我們的自我意識 。
but you know you'd never know it a lot of the time , that this was so central to the religious life .	但你知道你永遠不會知道這在宗教生活中是如此的重要
because with a few wonderful exceptions , very often when religious people come together , religious leaders come together , they're arguing about abstruse doctrines or uttering a council of hatred or inveighing against homosexuality or something of that sort .	因為有一些很棒的例外 , 當宗教人士聚在一起時 , 宗教領袖聚集在一起 , 他們爭論抽象的教義 , 或是說出一堆仇恨或煽動對同性戀或類似的事的仇恨 。
often people don't really want to be compassionate .	人們通常不想變得有同情心 。
i sometimes see when i'm speaking to a congregation of religious people a sort of mutinous expression crossing their faces because people often want to be right instead .	有時我會看到 , 當我在和一群宗教人士談話時 , 有點像是站在嘴邊的表情 , 因為人們通常會希望是對的 。
and that of course defeats the object of the exercise .	這當然會打敗運動的物體 。
now why was i so grateful to ted ?	為什麼我對ted這麼感激 ?
because they took me very gently from my booklined study and brought me into the 21st century , enabling me to speak to a much , much wider audience than i could have ever conceived .	因為他們很輕鬆地把我從我的書籍研究帶到21世紀 , 讓我能對一個比我想像的更廣的觀眾說話 。
because i feel an urgency about this .	因為我感到很急迫 。
if we don't manage to implement the golden rule globally , so that we treat all peoples , wherever and whoever they may be , as though they were as important as ourselves , i doubt that we'll have a viable world to hand on to the next generation .	如果我們無法在全球實施黃金法則 , 不論在哪裡 , 不論在哪裡 , 不論在哪裡 , 不論在哪裡 , 不論在哪裡 , 不論在哪裡 , 不論在哪裡 , 都一樣重要 , 我懷疑我們會有一個可行的世界 , 把下一代交給下一代 。
the task of our time , one of the great tasks of our time , is to build a global society , as i said , where people can live together in peace .	我們這個時代的任務 , 我們這個時代最偉大的任務之一 , 就是建立一個全球性社會 , 如我所說 , 讓人們可以和平共處 。
and the religions that should be making a major contribution are instead seen as part of the problem .	宗教應該要做出重大貢獻 , 反而被視為是問題的一部分 。
and of course it's not just religious people who believe in the golden rule .	當然 , 不只是宗教人士相信黃金法則 。
this is the source of all morality , this imaginative act of empathy , putting yourself in the place of another .	這是所有道德的來源 , 想像力的想像力的行為 , 把自己放在他人的位置上 。
and so we have a choice , it seems to me .	所以我們有一個選擇 , 對我來說 ,
we can either go on bringing out or emphasizing the dogmatic and intolerant aspects of our faith , or we can go back to the rabbis . rabbi hillel , the older contemporary of jesus , who , when asked by a pagan to sum up the whole of jewish teaching while he stood on one leg , said , " that which is hateful to you , do not do to your neighbor .	我們可以繼續或強調我們信仰的教條和寬容的面向 , 或者我們可以回到拉比希爾 , 和耶穌相處的年長者 , 當他站立在一條腿上時 , 去總結整個猶太教教教的教誨 , 他說: 「 這樣對你不好 , 不要對你的鄰居做 。
that is the torah and everything else is only commentary . "	這就是托拉 , 其他一切都只是評論而已 。 」
and the rabbis and the early fathers of the church who said that any interpretation of scripture that bred hatred and disdain was illegitimate .	而拉比和早期教會的父親們 , 他們說 , 任何對經文的詮釋 , 任何對仇恨和鄙視的經文都是不合法的 。
and we need to revive that spirit .	我們需要復活那份精神 。
and it's not just going to happen because a spirit of love wafts us down .	這並不只是因為愛的精神喚醒我們而已 。
we have to make this happen , and we can do it with the modern communications that ted has introduced .	我們得要讓它實現 , 且我們能用ted推出的現代傳播溝通來實現它 。
already i've been tremendously heartened at the response of all our partners .	我已經對所有夥伴的回應都感到非常興奮 。
in singapore , we have a group going to use the charter to heal divisions recently that have sprung up in singaporean society , and some members of the parliament want to implement it politically .	在新加坡 , 我們有一群人 , 會用這一系列規定來治癒新加坡社會的分裂 , 最近在新加坡有一些國會議員 , 想要在政治上實施它 。
in malaysia , there is going to be an art exhibition in which leading artists are going to be taking people , young people , and showing them that compassion also lies at the root of all art .	在馬來西亞 , 會有一場藝術展覽 , 主導藝術家會帶領人們 , 年輕人 , 向他們展示 , 同情心同時也隱藏在所有藝術的根部 。
throughout europe , the muslim communities are holding events and discussions , are discussing the centrality of compassion in islam and in all faiths .	在歐洲各地 , 穆斯林社區都在舉辦活動和討論 , 正在討論同情心在伊斯蘭和所有信仰的核心 。
but it can't stop there . it can't stop with the launch .	但它不能就此停止 , 它無法停止發射 。
religious teaching , this is where we've gone so wrong , concentrating solely on believing abstruse doctrines .	宗教教學 , 也是我們如此誤解的地方 , 僅僅是相信abstrustrus的教誨而已 。
religious teaching must always lead to action .	宗教教導必須永遠導致行動 。
and i intend to work on this till my dying day .	我打算在我過世的那一天做這個工作 。
and i want to continue with our partners to do two things educate and stimulate compassionate thinking .	我希望和我們的合作夥伴繼續做兩件事 , 來教育和激發同情心 。
education because we've so dropped out of compassion .	教育 , 因為我們已經失去了同情心 。
people often think it simply means feeling sorry for somebody .	人們常常認為這只意味著對某個人感到抱歉 。
but of course you don't understand compassion if you're just going to think about it .	但 , 當然 , 如果你只是想一想 , 你並不了解同情心 。
you also have to do it .	你也必須這樣做 。
i want them to get the media involved because the media are crucial in helping to dissolve some of the stereotypical views we have of other people , which are dividing us from one another .	我希望媒體參與其中 , 因為媒體在幫助我們分化一些我們對其他人的刻板印象 , 使我們和其他人分開 。
the same applies to educators .	同樣適用於教育家 。
i'd like youth to get a sense of the dynamism , the dynamic and challenge of a compassionate lifestyle .	我希望青少年能夠體會到動態的感覺 , 一種充滿同情心的生活方式的動態和挑戰 。
and also see that it demands acute intelligence , not just a gooey feeling .	同時也可以看到它需要有急性智慧 , 不僅僅是單純的感覺 。
i'd like to call upon scholars to explore the compassionate theme in their own and in other people's traditions .	我想要呼籲學者 , 探索自己和其他人的傳統中慈悲的主題 。
and perhaps above all , to encourage a sensitivity about uncompassionate speaking , so that because people have this charter , whatever their beliefs or lack of them , they feel empowered to challenge uncompassionate speech , disdainful remarks from their religious leaders , their political leaders , from the captains of industry .	最重要的是 , 鼓勵大家對於沒有同情心的言論 , 這麼一來 , 因為人們有這本憲章 , 不論他們的信仰 , 不論他們的信仰 , 不論他們的信仰 , 或他們缺乏信仰 , 他們的言論就會被賦予 , 不論他們的宗教領袖 , 他們的政治領袖 , 來自工業界的船長 。
because we can change the world , we have the ability .	因為我們能改變世界 , 我們有能力 。
i would never have thought of putting the charter online .	我從來沒有想過要把這章放上網路 。
i was still stuck in the old world of a whole bunch of boffins sitting together in a room and issuing yet another arcane statement .	我仍然被困在一個舊世界裡 , 一大堆的博芬斯坐在一間房間裡 , 引發了另一則神秘的陳述 。
and ted introduced me to a whole new way of thinking and presenting ideas .	ted介紹了我一種全新的思考和呈現想法的方式 。
because that is what is so wonderful about ted .	因為那就是ted美妙的地方 。
in this room , all this expertise , if we joined it all together , we could change the world .	在這個房間裡 , 所有這些專業知識 , 如果我們同心協力 , 我們就能改變世界 。
and of course the problems sometimes seem insuperable .	當然 , 問題有時似乎無法解決 。
but i'd just like to quote , finish at the end with a reference to a british author , an oxford author whom i don't quote very often , c . s . lewis .	但我想要引用一句話來結束這場演講的結尾是關於一位英國作家牛津作家我不常引用他的話來引用c.c.s.路易斯
but he wrote one thing that stuck in my mind ever since i read it when i was a schoolgirl .	但他寫了一篇從我還是個學童時就一直牢記在我的心裡的東西 。
it's in his book " the four loves . "	這是在他的書《四個愛人》中 。
he said that he distinguished between erotic love , when two people gaze , spellbound , into each other's eyes .	他說 , 他區分性愛 , 當兩個人凝視、拼字 , 彼此的眼睛時 。
and then he compared that to friendship , when two people stand side by side , as it were , shoulder to shoulder , with their eyes fixed on a common goal .	接著 , 他把友誼和友誼做比較 , 當兩個人站在同一陣線 , 肩並肩 , 他們的眼睛固定在共同的目標上 。
we don't have to fall in love with each other , but we can become friends .	我們不需要愛上彼此 , 但我們可以成為朋友 。
and i am convinced .	我深信不疑
i felt it very strongly during our little deliberations at vevey , that when people of all different persuasions come together , working side by side for a common goal , differences melt away .	在我們對vey的小小判斷過程中 , 我感覺到它非常強烈 , 當不同說服的人聚在一起 , 肩並肩作戰 , 朝向共同的目標前進 , 差異會融化 。
and we learn amity .	我們會學習到 「 同情心 」 。
and we learn to live together and to get to know one another .	我們學會了一起生活 , 了解彼此 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
david macaulay relives the winding and sometimes surreal journey toward the completion of rome antics , his illustrated homage to the historic city .	davidmacaulay仰賴風力 , 有時甚至超現實的旅程 , 朝向羅馬競技場的勝利之路前進 , 他對於歷史城市的致敬致敬 。
macarthur grant , art , arts , book , cities , communication , culture , design , entertainment , humor , storytelling	macarthurgant , 藝術 , 藝術 , 藝術 , 藝術 , 城市 , 溝通 , 文化 , 設計 , 娛樂 , 幽默 , 說故事 。
i draw to better understand things .	我畫畫得更加深入地去了解事物 。
sometimes i make a lot of drawings and i still don't understand what it is i'm drawing .	有時 , 我畫了很多圖 , 但我仍然無法理解我在畫什麼 。
those of you who are comfortable with digital stuff and even smug about that relationship might be amused to know that the guy who is best known for " the way things work , " while preparing for part of a panel for called understanding , spent two days trying to get his laptop to communicate with his new cd burner .	你們這些對數位化的東西感到自在 , 甚至對這段感情感到好笑的人 , 都知道 , 對於 「 事物運作的方式 」 最熟悉的人 , 同時為 「 理解 」 的一部分做準備 , 花了兩天的時間 , 試圖讓他的筆電和他的新cd燒掉的電腦溝通 。
who knew about extension managers ?	誰知道延伸式管理者 ?
i've always managed my own extensions so it never even occurred to me to read the instructions , but i did finally figure it out . i had to figure it out , because along with the invitation came the frightening reminder that there would be no projector , so bringing those carousels would no longer be necessary but some alternate form of communication would .	我一直都想辦法自己延伸自己 , 這樣我從來沒有想過要讀那些指令 , 但我終於搞懂了 。 我必須想辦法 , 因為隨著邀請函提醒我們沒有投影機 , 所以要把那些地衣帶帶帶出來 , 這樣我就不會再有所必要了 , 某種另類的溝通方式 。
now , i could talk about something that i'm known for , something that would be particularly appropriate for many of the more technically minded people here , or i could talk about something i really care about .	現在 , 我可以談談我知名的事物 , 特別適合在座的許多人 , 特別適合的 , 或者 , 我可以談談我真正在乎的事物 。
i decided to go with the latter .	我決定和後者一起去 。
i'm going to talk about rome .	我要談談羅馬 。
now , why would i care about rome , particularly ?	那麼 , 我為什麼會特別關心羅馬呢 ?
well , i went to rhode island school of design in the second half of the '60s to study architecture .	嗯 , 我在60年代後期到羅德島設計學院去研究建築
i was lucky enough to spend my last year , my fifth year , in rome as a student . it changed my life .	我很幸運能在去年和我的五年在羅馬當學生 , 改變了我的人生 。
not the least reason was the fact that i had spent those first four years living at home , driving into risd everyday , driving back .	不是因為我在最初的四年裡 , 住在家裡 , 每天開車到rsid , 開車回家 。
i missed the '60s . i read about them ; i understand they were pretty interesting . i missed them , but i did spend that extraordinary year in rome , and it's a place that is never far from my mind .	我錯過了六十年代 。 我讀到它們 , 我知道它們很有趣 。 我錯過了它們 , 但我確實在羅馬度過了那不凡的一年 , 那裡離我很遠很遠 。
so , whenever given an opportunity , i try to do something in it or with it or for it .	所以 , 只要有機會 , 我就會試著用它或它來做些什麼 。
i also make drawings to help people understand things .	我也畫畫來幫助人們理解事物 。
things that i want them to believe i understand .	我希望他們能相信我能理解的事 。
and that's what i do as an illustrator , that's my job .	這就是我作為一個插畫家所做的事 , 這是我的工作 。
so , i'm going to show you some pictures of rome .	所以 , 我要給你們看一些羅馬的照片 。
i've made a lot of drawings of rome over the years .	這些年來 , 我畫了很多羅馬的圖 。
these are just drawings of rome . i get back as often as possible i need to .	這些只是羅馬的畫作 。 我盡可能地得到回來 。
all different materials , all different styles , all different times , drawings from sketchbooks looking at the details of rome .	各種材料 , 各種不同的風格 , 各種不同的時代 , 都從素描書上得知羅馬的細節 。
part of the reason i'm showing you these is that it sort of helps illustrate this process i go through of trying to figure out what it is i feel about rome and why i feel it .	我之所以展示給你們看 , 有部分原因是因為它有助於描述我經歷的這個過程 , 試圖弄清楚我對於羅馬的感受 , 以及我為何會感受到它 。
these are sketches of some of the little details .	這些是一些細節的草圖 。
rome is a city full of surprises .	羅馬是個充滿驚喜的城市 。
i mean , we're talking about unusual perspectives , we're talking about narrow little winding streets that suddenly open into vast , sundrenched piazzas never , though , piazzas that are not humanly scaled .	我的意思是 , 我們談的是非比尋常的觀點 , 我們談的是狹窄的小小的風車街道 , 突然間 , 變成了巨大的陽光充斥的廣場 , 永遠不會 , 那些廣場沒有人性的規模 。
part of the reason for that is the fact that they grew up organically .	其中的原因是 , 牠們有機地長大 。
that amazing juxtaposition of old and new , the bits of light that come down between the buildings that sort of create a map that's traveling above your head of usually blue especially in the summer compared to the map that you would normally expect to see of conventional streets .	隨著年老與新事物的矛盾 , 建築物之間的距離 , 會創造出一幅在你頭上移動的地圖 , 通常是藍色的 , 尤其是在夏天 , 相較之下 , 你平常看到的地圖是傳統的街道 。
and i began to think about how i could communicate this in book form .	我開始思考我要如何用書的形式來溝通這一點 。
how could i share my sense of rome , my understanding of rome ?	我要如何分享我對羅馬的感受 , 我對羅馬的理解 ?
and i'm going to show you a bunch of dead ends , basically .	接下來我要給大家看的是一堆死胡同
the primary reason for all these dead ends is when if you're not quite sure where you're going , you're certainly not going to get there with any kind of efficiency .	所有這些死胡同的主要原因是 , 如果你不太確定你要往哪裡去 , 你肯定不會達到那樣的效率 。
here's a little map . and i thought of maps at the beginning ; maybe i should just try and do a little atlas of my favorite streets and connections in rome .	這是一張小地圖 , 我一開始就想到了地圖 , 也許我應該試試看 , 畫一個我最喜歡的街道和連接線的地圖 。
and here's a line of text that actually evolves from the exhaust of a scooter zipping across the page .	這裡有一行的文字 , 實際上是從汽車飛行器橫越頁面的廢氣演化而來的 。
here that same line of text wraps around a fountain in an illustration that can be turned upside down and read both ways .	同樣這一行的文字也繞著一個噴泉的插圖 , 可以翻轉過來 , 翻轉兩邊的閱讀 。
maybe that line of text could be a story to help give some human aspect to this .	也許這一行的文本可以是一個故事 , 來協助人類對此有所貢獻 。
maybe i should get away from this map completely , and really be honest about wanting to show you my favorite bits and pieces of rome and simply kick a soccer ball in the air which happens in so many of the squares in the city and let it bounce off of things . and i'll simply explain what each of those things is that the soccer ball hits .	也許我應該完全脫離這張地圖 , 非常誠實的說 , 想要讓你們看看我最愛的羅馬和羅馬的位元 , 單純地把足球踢到空中 , 讓它彈下來 。 我來解釋一下 , 足球撞上了什麼 。
that seemed like a sort of a cheap shot .	這看起來像是個廉價的照片 。
but even though i just started this presentation , this is not the first thing that i tried to do and i was getting sort of desperate .	但即使我剛開始做這場演說 , 這不是我試著做的第一件事 , 而且我有點絕望 。
eventually , i realized that i had really no content that i could count on , so i decided to move towards packaging .	最終 , 我了解到我沒有任何可以依靠的內容 , 所以我決定要往包裝前進 。
i mean , it seems to work for a lot of things .	我是說 , 這似乎適用於很多事情 。
so i thought a little box set of four small books might do the trick .	所以我想了一小盒四本小書的小盒子 , 可能是有把戲的 。
but one of the ideas that emerged from some of those sketches was the notion of traveling through rome in different vehicles at different speeds in order to show the different aspects of rome .	但其中一個想法是從一些草圖中產生的 , 那就是在不同的車速上穿越羅馬的概念 , 以不同的速度穿越羅馬的各個角度來呈現羅馬的不同面向 。
sort of an overview of rome and the plan that you might see from a dirigible .	有點像是羅馬的總觀 , 羅馬的計劃你可能會從飛船上看到 。
quick snapshots of things you might see from a speeding motor scooter , and very slow walking through rome , you might be able to study in more detail some of the wonderful surfaces and whatnot that you come across .	快速快速地拍攝你可能從飛快的摩托車上看到的東西 , 和非常緩慢的路過羅馬 , 你可能可以更詳細地研究一些奇妙的表面 , 以及你所看到的 。
anyways , i went back to the dirigible notion .	總之 , 我回到了可怕的想法 。
went to alberto santosdumont .	去了albertosdumont
found one of his dirigibles that had enough dimensions so i could actually use it as a scale that i would then juxtapose with some of the things in rome .	他找到一個有足夠維度的飛行器 , 這樣我就可以把它當作一個尺度 , 然後我就可以和羅馬的一些東西做結合 。
this thing would be flying over or past or be parked in front of , but it would be like having a ruler sort of travel through the pages without being a ruler .	飛越過去或過去 , 或在面前停在那兒 , 但就像有一把尺度穿過頁面 , 而不用當統治者 。
not that you know how long number 11 actually is , but you would be able to compare number 11 against the pantheon with number 11 against the baths of caracalla , and so on and so forth . if you were interested .	不是因為你知道11號實際上有多長 , 但如果你有興趣的話 , 你可以拿11號和萬神廟比較 , 和11號和卡卡拉浴場的比較 , 以此類推 。 如果你有興趣的話 。
this is beatrix . she has a dog named ajax , she has purchased a dirigible a small dirigible she's assembling the structure , ajax is sniffing for holes in the balloon before they set off .	這是beatrix , 她有一隻狗叫ajax , 她買了一艘小型的飛船她正在組裝它的架構 , ajax在氣球上打洞後聞一下
she launches this thing above the spanish steps and sets off for an aerial tour of the city .	她在西班牙階梯上推出了這個東西 , 開始在城市的空中巡迴演出 。
over the spanish steps we go .	我們走過西班牙階梯 。
a nice way to show that river , that stream sort of pouring down the hill .	展現這條河流很棒 , 沿著山丘上下流下的溪流 。
unfortunately , just across the road from it or quite close by is the column of marcus aurelius , and the diameter of the dirigible makes an impression , as you can see , as she starts trying to read the story that spirals around the column of marcus aurelius gets a little too close , nudges it .	不幸的是 , 就在路的另一端 , 或者說很接近地 , 是馬可•奧利烏斯的柱子 , 神聖的直徑讓人印象深刻 , 如你所見 , 她開始嘗試閱讀馬克•阿里奧利烏斯圓柱周圍的螺旋故事 , 有點太接近了 , 輕輕輕輕輕輕輕輕輕輕輕輕輕輕輕輕輕推過來 。
this gives me a chance to suggest to you the structure of the column of marcus aurelius , which is really no more than a pile of quarters high thick quarters . over the piazza of saint ignacio , completely ruining the symmetry , but that aside a spectacular place to visit .	這就給了我一個機會 , 向各位說明了馬可•奧里略的結構 , 比四分之一高的四分之一高的四分之一多的四分之一高的四分之一高的四分之一 。 在聖•伊納西歐的廣場上 , 完全毀掉了對稱性 , 但這一點 , 協助我們造訪一個壯觀的地方 。
a spectacular framework , inside of which you see , usually , extraordinary blue sky .	一個壯觀的架構 , 在這架構裡 , 通常是非比尋常的藍天 。
over the pantheon and the 26foot diameter oculus .	橫越萬神廟和直徑26英呎的oculus
she parks her dirigible , lowers the anchor rope and climbs down for a closer look inside .	她停下她的飛行器 , 降低飛行繩索 , 向下爬下 , 向內看近一點 。
the text here is right side and upside down so that you are forced to turn the book around , and you can see it from ground point of view and from her point of view looking in the hole , getting a different kind of perspective , moving you around the space . particularly appropriate in a building that can contain perfectly a sphere dimensions of the diameter being the same as the distance from the center of the floor to the center of the oculus .	這裡的文字是對的 , 上下是反過來的 , 所以你被迫將書本轉過來 , 你可以從地面的角度看 , 從她的角度看 , 從洞的角度看 , 得到不一樣的角度 , 帶著不錯的角度 , 特別適當的一棟建築物 , 可以把直徑的直徑看成和從地表的中央一樣 。
unfortunately for her , the anchor line gets tangled around the feet of some boy scouts who are visiting the pantheon , and they are immediately yanked out and given an extraordinary but terrifying tour of some of the domes of rome , which would , from their point of view , naturally be hanging upside down .	不幸的是 , 這條安赫爾路線纏繞著一些參觀萬神廟的男孩童童童童軍隊 , 他們立即被退出 , 進行了一段非凡但卻又恐怖的巡迴演出 , 從羅馬的角度來看 , 很自然的 , 羅馬的內幕自然就會被掛在一旁 。
they bail out as soon as they get to the top of saint ivo , that little spiral structure you see there .	當他們到達聖伊沃的頂端時 , 保釋了出來 , 你看到的那個小小的螺旋結構 。
she continues on her way over piazza navona .	她繼續前往比亞塞扎納州的另一邊 。
notices a lot of activity at the tre scalini restaurant , is reminded that it is lunchtime and she's hungry .	注意到在trescalini餐廳裡的許多活動 , 都提醒我們 , 午餐時間是午餐 , 她很餓 。
they keep on motoring towards the campo de' fiori , which they soon reach . ajax the dog is put in a basket and lowered with a list of food into the marketplace , which flourishes there until about one in the afternoon , and then is completely removed and doesn't appear again until six or seven the following morning .	他們繼續朝鮮花廣場前進 , 很快就到了 。 雅各斯被放在籃子裡 , 帶著一份食物到市場上去 , 一直到下午一點 , 一直到下午一點為止 , 一直到下午六點或七點才再次出現 。
anyway , the pooch gets back to the dirigible with the stuff .	總之 , 大便再次被這些東西所吸引 。
unfortunately , when she goes to unwrap the prosciutto , ajax makes a lunge for it .	不幸的是 , 當她去解開這條針筒時 , 阿賈克斯會為它做一頓午餐 。
she's managed to save the prosciutto , but in the process she loses the tablecloth , which you can see flying away in the upper lefthand corner .	她想辦法拯救這條針筒 , 但在她失去桌布的過程中 , 你可以看到在左上角飛走的那條桌布 。
they continue without their tablecloth , looking for a place to land this thing so that they can actually have lunch .	他們沒有桌巾 , 找個地方降落 , 這樣他們才有午餐可吃 。
they eventually discover a huge wall that's filled with small holes , ideal for docking a dirigible because you've got a place to tie up .	他們最終發現了一面巨大的牆 , 裡面塞滿了小洞 , 理想的在挖土機 , 因為你有地方可以整合在一起 。
turns out to be the exterior wall that part of it that remains of the coliseum , so they park themselves there and have a terrific lunch and have a spectacular view .	原來是它的外牆 , 其中一部份留在羅馬競技場 , 所以他們把自己放在那裡 , 享用很棒的午餐 , 景色很壯觀 。
at the end of lunch , they untie the anchor , they set off through the baths of caracalla and over the walls of the city and then an abandoned gatehouse and decide to take one more look at the pyramid of cestius , which has this lightning rod on top .	吃完午餐後 , 他們解開教堂 , 啟程穿過卡拉浴場 , 橫越城市的牆壁 , 放了一棟廢棄的大門 , 決定再看一眼埃斯提斯的金字塔 , 上面有一道閃電 。
unfortunately , that's a problem: they get a little too close , and when you're in a dirigible you have to be very careful about spikes .	不幸的是 , 問題是:牠們的距離太近了 , 而當你在一片水泥裡時 , 要非常小心尖刺 。
so that sort of brings her little story to a conclusion .	這就把她的故事帶到了最後的結論 。
marcello , on the other hand , is sort of a lazy guy , but he's not due at work until about noon .	另一方面 , 馬爾切洛是個有點懶惰的人 , 但他一直到中午才開始工作 。
so , the alarm goes off and it's five to 12 or so .	所以 , 警報響起 , 大概5到12點 。
he gets up , leaps onto his scooter , races through the city past the church of santa maria della pace , down the alleys , through the streets that tourists may be wandering through , disturbing the quiet backstreet life of rome at every turn .	他起來 , 跳上他的摩托車 , 越過城市 , 越過聖母堂的教堂 , 越過巷子 , 遊客可能會在街上漫遊 , 每次都在羅馬的安靜的後景生活 。
that speed with which he is moving , i hope i have suggested in this little image , which , again , can be turned around and read from both sides because there's text on the bottom and text on the top , one of which is upside down in this image .	他所移動的速度 , 我希望我已經建議到這個小小的圖像 , 同樣地 , 可以轉過頭來讀讀這兩邊的文字 , 因為底部有文字 , 上面還有文字 , 其中之一是上下圖像的文字 。
so , he keeps on moving , approaching an unsuspecting waiter who is trying to deliver two plates of linguine in a delicate white wine clam sauce to diners who are sitting at a table just outside of a restaurant in the street .	所以 , 他繼續前進 , 接近一個毫不知情的服務員 , 他試圖在一個精緻的白葡萄酒罐裡遞送兩盤盤盤的語言 , 給那些坐在街外的餐廳的會員 。
waiter catches on , but it's too late .	服務員追上來 , 但已經太遲了 。
and marcello keeps moving in his scooter .	馬爾切洛一直在他的摩托車上前進 。
everything he sees from this point on is slightly affected by the linguine , but keeps on moving because this guy's got a job to do .	他從這一刻看到的所有東西 , 都有點被語言所影響 , 但仍然繼續前進 , 因為這傢伙有工作要做 。
removes some scaffolding . one of the reasons rome remains the extraordinary place it is that because of scaffolding and the determination to maintain the fabric , it is a city that continues to grow and adapt to the needs of the particular time in which it finds itself , or we find it .	移除一些支架 , 羅馬仍是不尋常的原因之一 , 是因為支架化 , 以及維持結構的決心 , 羅馬繼續成長和適應特定時間的需求 , 羅馬的需求 。
right through the piazza della rotonda , in front of the pantheon again wreaking havoc and finally getting to work .	就在廣場戴拉•羅頓達 , 在萬神廟前 , 又破壞了哈佛特克 , 終於成功了 。
marcello , as it turns out , is the driver of the number 64 bus , and if you've been on the number 64 bus , you know that it's driven with the same kind of exuberance as marcello demonstrated on his scooter .	結果發現 , 馬爾切洛是64輛公車的駕駛 , 如果你坐過64輛巴士 , 你知道它的動力和馬爾切洛在他的摩托車上展示的一樣精彩 。
and finally carletto . you see his apartment in the upper lefthand corner .	終於carletto , 你可以看到他在左上角的公寓
he's looking at his table ; he's planning to propose this evening to his girlfriend of 40 years , and he wants it to be perfect .	他在看他的桌子 , 他打算在四十年內向他的女朋友求婚求婚 , 他希望一切都完美 。
he's got candles out , he's got flowers in the middle and he's trying to figure out where to put the plates and the glasses .	他把蠟燭拿出來 , 讓他把花朵放到中間 , 想辦法把盤子和眼鏡放到哪裡 。
but he's not happy ; something's wrong .	但他不快樂 , 有問題 。
the phone rings anyway , he's called to the palazzo .	電話響了 , 打電話給palazzo 。
he saunters he saunters at a good clip , but as compared to all the traveling we've just seen , he's sauntering .	他在一個好的剪輯中 , 搖擺直 , 但和我們剛剛看到的旅程相比 , 他簡直是搖擺不定 。
everybody knows carletto , because he's in entertainment , actually ; he's in television .	每個人都知道carletto , 因為他在娛樂界 , 其實他在電視界 。
he's actually in television repair , which is why people know him .	他其實是在電視上修復 , 這就是為什麼大家知道他 。
so they all have his number .	所以他們都有他的數字 。
he arrives at the palazzo , arrives at the big front door .	他抵達了大門 , 抵達了大門 。
enters the courtyard and talks to the custodian , who tells him that there's been a disaster in the palazzo ; nobody's tvs are working and there's a big soccer game coming up , and the crowd is getting a little restless and a little nervous .	進到庭院 , 和客戶談話 , 他告訴他 , 宮內發生了一場災難 ; 沒有人在電視上工作 , 會有一場巨大的足球比賽 , 觀眾開始變得不安、有點緊張 。
he goes down to the basement and starts to check the wiring , and then gradually works his way up to the top of the building , apartment by apartment , checking every television , checking every connection , hoping to find out what this problem is .	他下到地下室 , 開始檢查電線 , 然後逐漸地 , 爬到建築的頂端 , 每間公寓 , 檢查每個電視機 , 檢查每一個連線 , 希望能找出問題的所在 。
he works his way up , finally , the grand staircase and then a smaller staircase until he reaches the attic .	他一直往上走 , 終於 , 樓梯直到他抵達閣樓 。
he opens the window of the attic , of course , and there's a tablecloth wrapped around the building's television antenna .	他打開閣樓的窗戶 , 當然 , 還有一張桌布 , 圍繞著建築的電視天線 。
he removes it , the problems are solved , everybody in the palazzo is happy .	他移除它 , 問題就解決了 , 所有在palazzo的人都很快樂 。
and of course , he also solves his own problem .	當然 , 他也解決自己的問題 。
all he has to do now , with a perfect table , is wait for her to arrive .	他現在要做的就只有一個完美的桌子 , 就是等她到來 。
that was the first attempt , but it didn't seem substantial enough to convey whatever it was i wanted to convey about rome .	那是第一次嘗試 , 但似乎不足以傳達任何我想要表達的關於羅馬的訊息 。
so i thought , well , i'll just do piazzas , and i'll get inside and underneath and i'll show these things growing and show why they're shaped the way they are and so on .	所以我想 , 好吧 , 我只會做廣場 , 我會進進去 , 下面我會展示這些東西 , 因而塑造了它們的形狀 , 以此類推 。
and then i thought , that's too complicated . no , i'll just take my favorite bits and pieces and i'll put them inside the pantheon but keep the scale , so you can see the top of sant'ivo and the pyramid of cestius and the tempietto of bramante all side by side in this amazing space .	然後我想 , 這太複雜了 。 不 , 不 , 我只把我最喜歡的部分和片段放到萬神殿裡 , 這樣你就可以看到聖誕節的頂端 , 金字塔提斯的金字塔 , 還有布拉曼特的泰坦女神 , 都站在這個神奇的空間裡 。
now that's one drawing , so i thought maybe it's time for piranesi to meet escher .	這只是一幅圖 , 所以我想也許皮納西去見埃舍爾赫爾是時候了 。
you see that i'm beginning to really lose control here and also hope .	你可以看到我開始真正失去了控制權 , 同時也失去了希望 。
there's a very thin blue line of exhaust that sort of runs through this thing that would be kind of the trail that holds it all together .	有一條非常薄的藍色線條 , 貫穿了這條路 , 讓這條路連接在一起 。
then i thought , " wait a minute , what am i doing ? "	然後我想: 「 等等 , 我在幹嘛 ? 」
a book is not only a neat way of collecting and storing information , it's a series of layers .	書不只是收集和儲存資訊的好方式 , 還包含了一系列的層次 。
i mean , you always peel one layer off another ; we think of them as pages , doing it a certain way .	我的意思是 , 一層一層一層一層一層地偏離另一層 ; 我們認為他們是一頁 , 以某種方式進行 。
but think of them as layers . i mean , rome is a place of layers horizontal layers , vertical layers and i thought , well just peeling off a page would allow me to if i got you thinking about it the right way would allow me to sort of show you the depth of layers .	但 , 把它們想像成層次 。 我的意思是 , 羅馬是個地層 , 水平層 , 垂直的層次 , 我在想 , 如果把一頁剝去 , 就可以讓你們用正確的方式來思考 , 讓我來呈現出層次的深度 。
the stucco on the walls of most of the buildings in rome covers the scars ; the scars of centuries of change as these structures have been adapted rather than being torn down .	在羅馬大部分建築的牆壁上 , 許多樓房都覆蓋著疤痕 ; 數世紀來 , 數個世紀的疤痕被改造 , 而不是被拆除 。
if i do a foldout page on the lefthand side and let you just unfold it , you see behind it what i mean by scar tissue .	如果我在左手邊做一個摺疊頁 , 讓你們展開 , 看見背後的我說的是疤痕組織 。
you can see that in 1635 , it became essential to make smaller windows because the bad guys were coming or whatever .	你可以看到在1635年 , 製造出更小的窗戶是必要的 , 因為壞人會來或其他的 。
adaptations all get buried under the stucco .	各式各樣的適應作用都被埋在了黏土下 。
i could peel out a page of this palazzo to show you what's going on inside of it .	我可以把這張palazzo的頁面拿出來讓你們看看裡面發生了什麼事
but more importantly , i could also show you what it looks like at the corner of one of those magnificent buildings with all the massive stone blocks , or the fake stone blocks done with brick and stucco , which is more often the case .	但 , 更重要的是 , 我也可以讓你們看看 , 在這些偉大的建築物的角落裡 , 那些巨大的石塊 , 或那些用磚頭和石灰做成的假石塊 , 情況更加常見 。
so it becomes slightly threedimensional .	所以它會變得有點3d立體 。
i could take you down one of those narrow little streets into one of those surprising piazzas by using a double gate fold double foldout page which , if you were like me reading a popup book as a child , you hopefully stick your head into .	我可以帶你走下一條狹窄的小街 , 進入其中一個令人驚訝的廣場 , 使用雙重摺疊頁 , 如果你和我小時候看一本彈出式書 , 希望你把你的頭伸進去 。
you wrap the pages around your head and are in that piazza for that brief period of time .	你把頭上的紙包覆著 , 用在那短暫的時間內的廣場上 。
and i've really not done anything much more complicated than make foldout pages .	我真的沒有做任何比摺疊頁更複雜的事 。
but then i thought , maybe i could be simpler here .	但接著我想 , 也許我可以簡單一點 。
let's look at the pantheon and the piazza della rotonda in front of it .	讓我們看看萬神廟和前面的廣場德拉•羅頓達
here's a book completely wide open .	這是一本完全開放的書 。
ok , if i don't open the book the whole way , if i just open it 90 degrees , we're looking down the front of the pantheon , and we're looking sort of at the top , more or less down on the square .	好 , 如果我不打開這本書 , 如果我只打開90度 , 我們就在俯視萬神廟的前面 , 往下看 , 往下看 , 往下看 , 往下看 , 往下看 。
and if i turn the book the other way , we're looking across the square at the front of the pantheon .	如果我翻開書 , 翻過來 , 我們就在萬神廟前方橫越廣場 。
no foldouts , no tricks just a book that isn't open the whole way .	沒有摺疊 , 沒有把戲法變成一本沒有打開整體的書 。
that seemed promising . i thought , maybe i'll do it inside and i can even combine the foldouts with the only partially opened book .	這似乎很有希望 。 我心想 , 也許我會在裡面做 , 我甚至可以把摺疊作品和一部分開放的書結合在一起 。
so we get inside the pantheon and it grows and so on and so forth .	我們進入萬神廟內部 , 它會不斷的變大 , 以此類推 。
and i thought , maybe i'm on the right track , but it sort of lost its human quality .	我心想 , 也許我是站在正確的軌道上 , 但它似乎失去了人類的特質 。
so i went back to the notion of story , which is always a good thing to have if you're trying to get people to pay attention to a book and pick up information along the way .	所以 , 我回到故事的觀點 , 總是一件好事 , 如果你想讓人們專注於一本書 , 一路上收集資訊 , 這是一件好事 。
" pigeon's progress " struck me as a catchy title .	「 鴿子的進步 」 震撼了我 , 是個難懂的頭銜 。
if it was a homing pigeon , it would be called " homer's odyssey . "	如果這是一隻親愛的鴿子 , 它會被稱為 「 荷馬的奧德賽 」 。
but it was the journey of the . . .	但那是這趟旅程......
i mean , if a title works , use it . but it would be a journey that went through rome and showed all the things that i like about rome .	我的意思是 , 如果一個頭銜能成功 , 用它 。 但它會是一段經歷羅馬的旅程 , 展示出我喜歡羅馬的所有事物 。
it's a pigeon sitting on top of a church .	這是一隻教堂頂上的鴿子 。
goes off during the day and does normal pigeon stuff . comes back , the whole place is covered with scaffolding and green netting and there's no way this pigeon can get home .	白天去做正常的鴿子之類的事 。 回來 , 整個位置都覆蓋著鷹架和綠色網路 , 而這種鴿子無法回家 。
so it's a homeless pigeon now and it's going to have to find another place to live , and that allows me to go through my catalog of favorite things , and we start with the tall ones and so on .	現在這是一隻無家可歸的鴿子 , 它將必須找到另一個居住的地方 , 這使我能走過我最喜歡的目錄 , 我們從最高的開始 。
maybe it has to go back and live with family members ; that's not always a good thing , but it does sort of bring pigeons together again .	也許它必須回去和家人一起生活 , 這不一定是好事 , 但它確實能讓鴿子再次結合在一起 。
and i thought , that's sort of interesting , but maybe there's a person who should be involved in this in some way .	我心想 , 這很有趣 , 但或許有一個人應該要這樣做 。
so i kind of came up with this old guy who spends his life looking after sick pigeons .	所以我想出了一個老傢伙 , 他一生都在照顧生病鴿子 。
he'll go anywhere to get them dangerous places and whatnot and they become really friends with this guy , and learn to do tricks for him and entertain him at lunchtime and stuff like that .	他會到任何地方 , 讓他們感到危險的地方 , 不論如何 , 他們都會和這個人交朋友 , 學會為他做招術 , 在午餐時間 , 或像那樣娛樂他 。
there's a real bond that develops between this old man and these pigeons .	有一種真實的連結存在於老人和這些鴿子之間 。
but unfortunately he gets sick . he gets really sick at the end of the story .	但不幸的是 , 他生病了 。 他在故事的結尾時 , 病得非常嚴重 。
he's taught them to spell his name , which is aldo .	他教導他們拼他的名字 , 那是aldo 。
they show up one day after three or four days of not seeing him he lives in this little garret and they spell his name and fly around .	有一天 , 三、四天沒見到他之後 , 他住在這個小小的車庫裡 , 他們拼出他的名字 , 四處飛舞 。
and he finally gets enough strength together to climb up the ladder onto the roof , and all the pigeons , a la red balloon , are there waiting for him and they carry him off over the walls of the city .	他終於得到了足夠的力量 , 爬上梯子爬到屋頂上 , 所有鴿子 , 一個紅色的氣球 , 都在等著他 , 他們把他帶到城市的牆壁上 。
and i forgot to mention this: whenever he lost a pigeon , he would take that pigeon out beyond the walls of the city .	我忘了提到這個:只要他失去一隻鴿子 , 他就會把那隻鴿子帶到城市的牆壁外 。
in the old roman custom , the dead were never buried within the walls .	在羅馬的舊習俗中 , 死亡人士從未被埋在牆壁中 。
and i thought that's a really cheery story .	我覺得這個故事真的很開心 。
. that's really going to go a long way .	這將會有很長的路要走 。
so anyway , i went through . . . and again , if packaging doesn't work and if the stories aren't going anywhere , i just come up with titles and hope that a title will sort of kick me off in the right direction .	總之 , 我經歷了...再一次 , 如果包裝不管用 , 如果故事不在哪裡 , 我只想出了標題 , 希望書名能在正確的方向上把我踢下 。
and sometimes it does focus me enough and i'll even do a title page .	有時它的確讓我有足夠的專注 , 我甚至會做個標題頁 。
so , these are all title pages that eventually led me to the solution i settled on , which is the story of a young woman who sends a message on a homing pigeon she lives outside the walls of the city of rome to someone in the city .	這些全部都是書名 , 最終引領我找到解決方案 , 這是關於一位年輕女性的故事 , 她在羅馬城外的羅馬城外傳遞訊息給羅馬人的故事 。
and the pigeon is flying down above the appian way here .	鴿子正從阿塔維亞往下飛過去 。
you can see the tombs and pines and so on and so forth along the way .	你可以看見墳墓和松餅 , 一路上諸如此類 。
if you see the red line , you are seeing the trail of the pigeon ; if you don't see the red line , you are the pigeon .	如果你看到紅線 , 你看到的是鴿子的軌跡 ; 如果你看不見紅線 , 你就是那隻鴿子 。
and it becomes necessary and possible , at this point , to try to convey what that sense would be like of flying over the city without actually moving .	此時此刻 , 必要和可能 , 試圖傳達出那種在城市中飛越城市的感覺 , 不用移動就知道飛越城市的感覺 。
past the pyramid of cestius these will seem very familiar to you , even if you haven't been to rome recently past the gatehouse .	穿過了西斯提烏斯金字塔 , 這對你來說很熟悉 , 即使你最近沒去過羅馬 , 過過了大門 。
this is something that's a little bit unusual .	這有點不尋常 。
this pigeon does something that most homing pigeons do not do: it takes the scenic route , which was a device that i felt was necessary to actually extend this book beyond about four pages .	這種鴿子做了一件大多謀殺鴿子沒做的事:它採用了一種篩選路線 , 我覺得這個裝置有必要把這本書延伸到四頁以外 。
so , we circle around the coliseum , past the church of santa maria in cosmedin and the temple of hercules towards the river .	所以 , 我們繞過羅馬競技場 , 越過聖母瑪麗亞教會的聖母堂 , 和海克力士通往河流的神廟 。
we almost collide with the cornice of the palazzo farnese designed by michelangelo , built of stone taken from the coliseum narrow escape .	我們幾乎碰撞了palazzzofarnesse的作品 , 米開朗基羅的作品 , 用里程碑縮小的距離建造了石塊 。
we swoop down over the campo de' fiori .	我們往下滑過卡波迪利的fiori 。
this is one of those things i show to my students because it's a complete bastardization a denial of any rules of perspective .	這是我向我的學生展示的其中一件事 , 因為這完全是對任何規則都否認的 。
the only rule of perspective that i think matters is if it looks believable , you've succeeded .	我認為唯一重要的觀點是 , 如果它看起來可信 , 你已經成功了 。
but you try and figure out where the vanishing points meet here ; a couple are on mars and a couple of others in cremona .	但你試著找出這些消失點在哪兒 ; 有幾個在火星上 , 還有一些在克雷門的其他人 。
but into the piazza in front of santa maria della pace , where invariably a soccer game is going on , and we're hit by a soccer ball .	但在廣場上 , 在聖母瑪麗亞•戴拉•帕斯的前面 , 無一例外 , 有一場足球比賽正在進行 , 我們被足球擊中 。
now this is a terrible illustration of being hit by a soccer ball .	這是個很糟糕的例子 , 說明被足球擊中的畫面 。
i have all the pieces: there's santa maria della pace , there's a soccer ball , there's a little bit of a bird's wing nothing's happening , so i had to rethink it .	我有所有的作品:聖母瑪麗亞•德拉•羅斯 , 有足夠的球 , 有一點點鳥翅膀 , 什麼也沒發生 , 所以我得要重新思考 。
and if you do want to see santa maria della pace , these books are really flexible , incredibly interactive just turn it around and look at it the other way .	假如你想要看到聖母瑪麗亞•迪拉的步調 , 這些書非常有彈性 , 非常有互動性 , 只要把它反過來 , 用另一種方式來看它 。
through the alley , we can see the impact is captured in the red line .	透過對話 , 我們可以看到紅線的影響 。
and then bird manages to pull itself together past this medieval tower one of the few remaining medieval towers towards the church of sant'agnese and around the dome looking down into piazza navona which we've already mentioned and seen and flown over a couple of times ; there's the bernini statue of the four rivers and then past the wonderful borromini sant'ivo , stopping just long enough on the 26foot diameter oculus of the pantheon to catch our breath .	之後 , 鳥能夠把自己拉過來 , 這座中世紀的高塔 , 剩下的中世紀塔塔樓之一 , 朝聖聖地奇教堂前進 , 最周圍的高塔 , 向下看向廣場 , 我們已經提到過、見過、飛過數次了 ; 在這四條河流的前幾座上 , 還有穿過美麗的布羅米努伊•聖母堂 , 停在足夠的26英呎高度上 , 來到達我們呼吸的房間 。
and then we can swoop inside and around ; and because we're flying , we don't really have to worry about gravity at this particular moment in time , so this drawing can be oriented in any way on the page .	然後我們可以在內部四處飛行 , 因為我們在飛行 , 我們不用擔心這個特定時刻的重力 , 這樣這幅圖在紙上的任何方向都可以 。
we get a little exuberant as we pass gesu ; it's not surprising to sort of mimic the architecture in this way .	當我們通過gesu時 , 我們會有點開心 , 用這種方式來模仿建築並不讓人意外 。
past the wonderful wall filled with the juxtaposition that i was talking about ; beautiful carvings set into the walls above the neon " ristorante " sign , and so on .	經過一面美麗的牆壁 , 充滿了我剛剛所提到的混合物 ; 美麗的雕刻品被捲入了neonstants的牆壁中 , 簽名等等 。
and eventually , we arrive at the courtyard of the palazzo , which is our destination .	最終 , 我們終於抵達了palazzo的庭院 , 也就是我們的目的地 。
straight up through the courtyard into a little window into the attic , where somebody is working at the drawing board .	直接穿過庭院 , 進入一扇窗戶 , 進入閣樓 , 有人在畫板上工作 。
he removes the message from the leg of the bird ; this is what it says .	他把留言從鳥的腿上移除 , 這就是它所說的 。
as we look at the drawing board , we see what he's working on is , in fact , a map of the journey that the pigeon has just taken , and the red line extends through all the sights .	當我們看這幅畫板 , 我們看到他正在做的事 , 其實是一張旅程的地圖 , 鴿子剛剛走過的地圖 , 紅線延伸了所有的視野 。
and if you want the information , so that we complete this cycle of understanding , all you have to do is read these paragraphs .	如果你想要這些資訊 , 這樣我們就能完成理解的循環 , 你所要做的就是讀這些段落 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
mit researcher skylar tibbits works on selfassembly the idea that instead of building something , we can create materials that build themselves , much the way a strand of dna zips itself together . it's a big concept at early stages ; tibbits shows us three inthelab projects that hint at what a selfassembling future might look like .	麻省理工學院的天然資源研究員在自我組裝上工作 , 不用建造任何東西 , 我們能創造出一些材料 , 來建造它們自己 , 就像一股dna一樣 。 這是個大概念 ; 在初期 , tibbits告訴我們三個項目 , 來暗示一個自我組裝的未來 。
skylar tibbits: can we make things that make themselves ?	高空的tibbits:我們能不能做出東西來製造自己 ?
today i'd like to show you the future of the way we make things .	今天 , 我想讓大家看看我們創造東西的未來 。
i believe that soon our buildings and machines will be selfassembling , replicating and repairing themselves .	我相信 , 我們的建築物和機器很快就會自行組裝、複製、修復自己 。
so i'm going to show you what i believe is the current state of manufacturing , and then compare that to some natural systems .	接下來我要讓大家看看 , 我相信目前的生產狀態 , 再和一些自然系統做比較 。
so in the current state of manufacturing , we have skyscrapers two and a half years [of assembly time] , 500 , 000 to a million parts , fairly complex , new , exciting technologies in steel , concrete , glass .	目前的製造業狀態 , 我們有摩天大樓 , 兩年半的時間 , 五十萬到一百萬個部分 , 相當複雜、新、令人振奮的技術鋼、混凝土、玻璃 。
we have exciting machines that can take us into space five years [of assembly time] , 2 . 5 million parts .	我們有令人振奮的機器可以帶領我們進入太空五年的組裝時間 , 兩百五十萬個零件 。
but on the other side , if you look at the natural systems , we have proteins that have two million types , can fold in 10 , 000 nanoseconds , or dna with three billion base pairs we can replicate in roughly an hour .	但另一方面 , 如果你觀察自然生態系統 , 我們有兩百萬種蛋白質 , 可以在一萬奈秒折疊 , 或dna有三十億個鹼基對 , 我們可以在大約一小時內複製 。
so there's all of this complexity in our natural systems , but they're extremely efficient , far more efficient than anything we can build , far more complex than anything we can build .	所以在我們的自然系統裡有這麼多的複雜性 , 但它們非常有效率 , 遠遠超過任何我們能建立的任何東西 , 遠遠超過任何我們能建立的任何東西 。
they're far more efficient in terms of energy .	在能源方面 , 它們的效率更高 。
they hardly ever make mistakes .	他們幾乎沒有犯錯 。
and they can repair themselves for longevity .	他們可以修復自己長壽 。
so there's something super interesting about natural systems .	所以 , 自然系統有超級有趣的東西 。
and if we can translate that into our built environment , then there's some exciting potential for the way that we build things .	如果我們可以把它翻譯成我們的建築環境 , 那麼 , 對於我們建造東西的方式 , 會產生一些令人振奮的潛力 。
and i think the key to that is selfassembly .	我認為關鍵在於自我組裝 。
so if we want to utilize selfassembly in our physical environment , i think there's four key factors .	如果我們想要在實體環境中自行組裝 , 我認為有四個關鍵因素 。
the first is that we need to decode all of the complexity of what we want to build so our buildings and machines .	第一 , 我們需要解碼所有我們想要建造的複雜性 , 這樣我們的建築和機器 。
and we need to decode that into simple sequences basically the dna of how our buildings work .	我們需要解讀簡單的序列 , 基本上就是我們建築物的運作方式的dna 。
then we need programmable parts that can take that sequence and use that to fold up , or reconfigure .	接著 , 我們需要可編程的部分 , 來使用該序列 , 來折疊 , 或重新配置 。
we need some energy that's going to allow that to activate , allow our parts to be able to fold up from the program .	我們需要一些能量讓它啟動 , 讓我們的零件能夠從程式中折疊起來 。
and we need some type of error correction redundancy to guarantee that we have successfully built what we want .	我們需要某種類型的矯正措施來保證我們已經成功地建立了我們想要的 。
so i'm going to show you a number of projects that my colleagues and i at mit are working on to achieve this selfassembling future .	接下來我要向各位展示幾個項目 , 是我在麻省理工學院的同事和我正在研發的 , 能夠達成這個自我組裝的未來 。
the first two are the macrobot and decibot .	前面的兩位是巨型機器人和底特律機器人 。
so these projects are largescale reconfigurable robots 8 ft . , 12 ft . long proteins .	這些項目都是大型的可重組的機器人 , 8英尺 , 12英呎長的蛋白質 。
they're embedded with mechanical electrical devices , sensors .	它們被嵌入在機械裝置和感應器中 。
you decode what you want to fold up into , into a sequence of angles so negative 120 , negative 120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , negative 120 something like that ; so a sequence of angles , or turns , and you send that sequence through the string .	解碼你想要摺疊的東西 , 變成一連串負120 , 負120 , 負120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , 負120 , 負120這類的事情 ; 所以一連串的角度 , 或旋轉 , 再把序列送進去 。
each unit takes its message so negative 120 it rotates to that , checks if it got there and then passes it to its neighbor .	每一單位都需要負120單位才能轉動 , 檢查一下是否到達 , 再把信息傳遞給鄰居 。
so these are the brilliant scientists , engineers , designers that worked on this project .	這些是優秀的科學家、工程師、設計師 , 致力於此項目的設計師 。
and i think it really brings to light: is this really scalable ?	我認為這真的會帶來光明:這真的是可擴展的嗎 ?
i mean , thousands of dollars , lots of man hours made to make this eightfoot robot .	我的意思是 , 數千美元 , 數以千計的人 , 花了很多時間 , 才做出這八英呎的機器人 。
can we really scale this up ? can we really embed robotics into every part ?	我們真的可以擴大規模嗎 ? 我們真的可以把機械裝置嵌入每一個部位嗎 ?
the next one questions that and looks at passive nature , or passively trying to have reconfiguration programmability .	下一個問題 , 探討被動的天性 , 或者被動地試圖重新組裝程式 。
but it goes a step further , and it tries to have actual computation .	但更進一步 , 它會嘗試實際的計算 。
it basically embeds the most fundamental building block of computing , the digital logic gate , directly into your parts .	基本上 , 它嵌入了最基礎的電腦運算、數位邏輯閘門 , 直接進入你的零件中 。
so this is a nand gate .	這是nand大門 。
you have one tetrahedron which is the gate that's going to do your computing , and you have two input tetrahedrons .	你有一個四面體 , 就是這個門會做你的計算 , 你有兩個輸入的四面體 。
one of them is the input from the user , as you're building your bricks .	其中一個是使用者的輸入 , 正如你正在建造你的磚頭一樣 。
the other one is from the previous brick that was placed .	另一個則是取自過去的磚頭 。
and then it gives you an output in 3d space .	然後它會在3d空間中輸出 。
so what this means is that the user can start plugging in what they want the bricks to do .	這意味著 , 使用者可以開始在他們想要的磚頭上加入他們想要的 。
it computes on what it was doing before and what you said you wanted it to do .	它計算它之前所做的事 , 你說你想要它做的事 。
and now it starts moving in threedimensional space so up or down .	現在它開始在三維空間上上上上下移動 。
so on the lefthand side , [1 , 1] input equals 0 output , which goes down .	在左手邊 , [1 , 1]輸入等於0輸出 , 往下 。
on the righthand side , [0 , 0] input is a 1 output , which goes up .	在右手邊 , 0 , 輸入1輸出 , 會上升 。
and so what that really means is that our structures now contain the blueprints of what we want to build .	這意味著 , 我們現在的結構 , 包含了我們想要建造的藍圖 。
so they have all of the information embedded in them of what was constructed .	所以他們有所有嵌入在他們身上的信息 , 關於構成的信息 。
so that means that we can have some form of selfreplication .	這意味著我們可以有某種形式的自我複製 。
in this case i call it selfguided replication , because your structure contains the exact blueprints .	在這個案例中 , 我稱它為自我導向的複製 , 因為你的結構中包含著確切的藍圖 。
if you have errors , you can replace a part .	如果你有錯誤 , 你可以替換一個部分 。
all the local information is embedded to tell you how to fix it .	所有當地的資訊都嵌入在告訴你們如何修復它 。
so you could have something that climbs along and reads it and can output at one to one .	所以你可以擁有爬上去讀取它 , 然後在1和1之間輸出 。
it's directly embedded ; there's no external instructions .	它直接嵌入 ; 沒有任何外部的指令 。
so the last project i'll show is called biased chains , and it's probably the most exciting example that we have right now of passive selfassembly systems .	我將展示的最後一個項目叫做偏見鏈 , 它可能是我們現在所擁有的最令人振奮的例子 , 就是被動的自行組裝系統 。
so it takes the reconfigurability and programmability and makes it a completely passive system .	需要重新配置和編寫能力 , 讓它變成完全被動的系統 。
so basically you have a chain of elements .	基本上你有一連串的元素 。
each element is completely identical , and they're biased .	每個元素都完全相同 , 且它們有偏見 。
so each chain , or each element , wants to turn right or left .	所以 , 每個鏈、每一個元素 , 都想要向右或向左轉 。
so as you assemble the chain , you're basically programming it .	所以當你組裝鏈時 , 你基本上是在編程 。
you're telling each unit if it should turn right or left .	你在告訴每一個單位 , 如果它應該向左或向左轉 。
so when you shake the chain , it then folds up into any configuration that you've programmed in so in this case , a spiral , or in this case , two cubes next to each other .	所以當你搖動鏈接的時候 , 它會折疊成任何你已經編寫過的圖形 , 像螺旋結構 , 或者 , 在這裡 , 兩個立方體相鄰 。
so you can basically program any threedimensional shape or onedimensional , twodimensional up into this chain completely passively .	基本上你可以將任何立體形狀或單一的雙維度 , 完全被動的置入這條鏈中 。
so what does this tell us about the future ?	所以 , 這告訴我們什麼是未來的 ?
i think that it's telling us that there's new possibilities for selfassembly , replication , repair in our physical structures , our buildings , machines .	我認為這告訴我們 , 自我組裝、複製、修復我們實體結構、建築物、機器 。
there's new programmability in these parts .	在這些地區有新的可編程性 。
and from that you have new possibilities for computing .	從那之後 , 你就有了新的電腦可能性 。
we'll have spatial computing .	我們會有空間計算 。
imagine if our buildings , our bridges , machines , all of our bricks could actually compute .	想像一下 , 如果我們的建築物、橋樑、機器 , 所有我們的磚塊都能夠計算出來 。
that's amazing parallel and distributed computing power , new design possibilities .	這是驚人的平行和分散式的計算能力 , 新的設計可能性 。
so it's exciting potential for this .	所以這是很令人振奮的潛力 。
so i think these projects i've showed here are just a tiny step towards this future , if we implement these new technologies for a new selfassembling world .	所以 , 我認為我在這裡展示的這些專案計畫 , 只是朝向這個未來邁進的一小步 , 如果我們實行這些新科技 , 為一個新的自行組裝世界實施 。
we've been to the moon , we've mapped the continents , we've even been to the deepest point in the ocean twice . what's left for the next generation to explore ? biologist and explorer nathan wolfe suggests this answer: almost everything . and we can start , he says , with the world of the unseeably small .	我們去過月球 , 繪製了大陸地圖 , 甚至去過海上兩次最深的地點 。 留給下一代去探索 ? 生物學家和nathanwolffe提議:幾乎每件事都可以做得到 。 然後我們開始吧 , 跟這個不可思議的小世界說 。
biodiversity , exploration , microbiology , science	生物多樣性、探索、微生物學、科學 。
nathan wolfe: what's left to explore ?	nathanwolfe:剩下什麼要探索 ?
recently i visited beloit , wisconsin .	最近我去了威斯康辛州的貝洛特 。
and i was there to honor a great 20th century explorer , roy chapman andrews .	我在那裡 , 為了榮耀一個偉大的20世紀探險家羅伊.查普曼•安德魯斯 。
during his time at the american museum of natural history , andrews led a range of expeditions to uncharted regions , like here in the gobi desert .	在美國自然歷史博物館的期間 , 安德魯斯帶領一系列的探險進入了未知的地區 , 例如在戈壁沙漠的這裡 。
he was quite a figure .	他是一個人物 。
he was later , it's said , the basis of the indiana jones character .	據說 , 他後來被認為是印第安納瓊斯角色的基礎 。
and when i was in beloit , wisconsin , i gave a public lecture to a group of middle school students .	當我在威斯康辛州的貝洛特市時 , 我在一群中學生的公開演說 。
and i'm here to tell you , if there's anything more intimidating than talking here at ted , it'll be trying to hold the attention of a group of a thousand 12yearolds for a 45minute lecture .	我來這裡是要告訴各位 , 如果在ted演講中有沒有什麼比在座各位更嚇人的話 , 它會試著把一千個12歲孩子的注意力集中在45分鐘的演講上 。
at the end of the lecture they asked a number of questions , but there was one that's really stuck with me since then .	演講結束時 , 他們問了幾個問題 , 但從那時起 , 有一件事一直困擾著我 。
there was a young girl who stood up , and she asked the question: " where should we explore ? "	有一個年輕女孩站起來 , 她問了這個問題: 「 我們要去哪裡探索 ? 」
i think there's a sense that many of us have that the great age of exploration on earth is over , that for the next generation they're going to have to go to outer space or the deepest oceans in order to find something significant to explore .	我想 , 很多人有一種感覺 , 地球上最偉大的探索時代已經結束了 , 對下一代來說 , 他們將必須去外太空或深海 , 去尋找有意義的探索事物 。
but is that really the case ?	但這真的是這樣嗎 ?
is there really nowhere significant for us to explore left here on earth ?	我們真的沒有辦法在地球上探索到什麼嗎 ?
it sort of made me think back to one of my favorite explorers in the history of biology .	這讓我回想起生物學史上我最喜歡的探險家之一 。
this is an explorer of the unseen world , martinus beijerinck .	這是個未知世界的探險家 , 馬丁斯貝尼傑林克 。
so beijerinck set out to discover the cause of tobacco mosaic disease .	beijerinck開始尋找菸草鑲嵌疾病的成因 。
what he did is he took the infected juice from tobacco plants and he would filter it through smaller and smaller filters .	他所做的是從菸草植物中吸取受感染的汁液 , 並且用越來越小的過濾器過濾它 。
and he reached the point where he felt that there must be something out there that was smaller than the smallest forms of life that were ever known bacteria , at the time .	他接觸到他認為一定有比當時已知的最小生命形式更小的東西存在 。
he came up with a name for his mystery agent .	他為神秘的媒介命了名 。
he called it the virus latin for " poison . "	他稱之為 「 毒藥 」 的拉丁文 。
and in uncovering viruses , beijerinck really opened this entirely new world for us .	在揭露病毒時 , beijerinck真的為我們開啟了一個全新的世界 。
we now know that viruses make up the majority of the genetic information on our planet , more than the genetic information of all other forms of life combined .	我們現在知道病毒構成了地球上大多數基因信息 , 遠超過所有其他形式的生物的基因信息 。
and obviously there's been tremendous practical applications associated with this world things like the eradication of smallpox , the advent of a vaccine against cervical cancer , which we now know is mostly caused by human papillomavirus .	很明顯的 , 已經有大量的實際應用 , 和這個世界有關的 , 像是天花的消滅 , 子宮頸癌的出現 , 我們現在知道大部分都是人類乳突病毒造成的 。
and beijerinck's discovery , this was not something that occurred 500 years ago .	而beijerinck的發現 , 這不是500年前發生的事 。
it was a little over 100 years ago that beijerinck discovered viruses .	大約一百年前 , beijerinck發現了病毒
so basically we had automobiles , but we were unaware of the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	基本上 , 我們有汽車 , 但我們沒有意識到組成地球上大部分基因信息的生命形式 。
we now have these amazing tools to allow us to explore the unseen world things like deep sequencing , which allow us to do much more than just skim the surface and look at individual genomes from a particular species , but to look at entire metagenomes , the communities of teeming microorganisms in , on and around us and to document all of the genetic information in these species .	現在我們有了這些驚人的工具 , 讓我們可以探索未知的世界 , 像是深度定序 , 讓我們能做的 , 遠遠超過表面 , 去觀察特定物種的個別基因組 , 而是去檢視整個測期限 , 充滿了微生物的群落 , 不斷地在我們身邊 , 記錄了這些物種的所有基因信息 。
we can apply these techniques to things from soil to skin and everything in between .	我們可以把這些技術應用在從土壤到皮膚之間的所有東西上 。
in my organization we now do this on a regular basis to identify the causes of outbreaks that are unclear exactly what causes them .	在我的組織中 , 我們現在定期這樣做 , 來確認疫情爆發的成因 , 正是造成疫情的原因 。
and just to give you a sense of how this works , imagine that we took a nasal swab from every single one of you .	為了讓你們了解這如何運作 , 想像一下 , 我們從你們每一個人身上 , 取了一把鼻塞糖 。
and this is something we commonly do to look for respiratory viruses like influenza .	我們通常會去尋找呼吸道性病毒 , 如流感病毒 。
the first thing we would see is a tremendous amount of genetic information .	我們會看到的第一件事 , 是非常大量的基因信息 。
and if we started looking into that genetic information , we'd see a number of usual suspects out there of course , a lot of human genetic information , but also bacterial and viral information , mostly from things that are completely harmless within your nose .	如果我們開始研究這些基因信息 , 我們會看到一些普通的嫌疑犯 , 當然 , 很多人類的基因信息 , 還有細菌和病毒信息 , 大部分來自你鼻子中完全無害的事物 。
but we'd also see something very , very surprising .	但我們也看到了非常非常驚人的結果 。
as we started to look at this information , we would see that about 20 percent of the genetic information in your nose doesn't match anything that we've ever seen before no plant , animal , fungus , virus or bacteria .	當我們開始檢視這些資訊時 , 我們會發現你鼻子中大約20%的基因信息 , 並不符合任何我們以前見過的東西 , 不管是植物、動物、真菌、病毒 , 或細菌 。
basically we have no clue what this is .	基本上我們完全不知道這是什麼 。
and for the small group of us who actually study this kind of data , a few of us have actually begun to call this information biological dark matter .	而對於那些實際研究這種數據的小組 , 實際上我們當中有一些人開始稱之為 「 生物暗物質 」 。
we know it's not anything that we've seen before ; it's sort of the equivalent of an uncharted continent right within our own genetic information .	我們知道它不是任何我們以前見過的東西 ; 它有點像是在我們自己的基因信息中未知的大陸 。
and there's a lot of it .	而且還有很多 。
if you think 20 percent of genetic information in your nose is a lot of biological dark matter , if we looked at your gut , up to 40 or 50 percent of that information is biological dark matter .	如果你認為你鼻子中有20%的基因信息是很多生物暗物質 , 如果我們觀察你的腸子 , 高達40%或50%的信息是生物暗物質 。
and even in the relatively sterile blood , around one to two percent of this information is dark matter can't be classified , can't be typed or matched with anything we've seen before .	即使在相對比較無菌的血液中 , 大約有1%到2%的資訊是暗物質無法被分類 , 無法被輸入或匹配任何我們以前見過的東西 。
at first we thought that perhaps this was artifact .	一開始 , 我們以為這也許是人工製品 。
these deep sequencing tools are relatively new .	這些深度定序的技術相當新 。
but as they become more and more accurate , we've determined that this information is a form of life , or at least some of it is a form of life .	但當它們變得越來越精準時 , 我們已經判斷這些資訊是一種生命形式 , 至少有些是生命的一種形式 。
and while the hypotheses for explaining the existence of biological dark matter are really only in their infancy , there's a very , very exciting possibility that exists: that buried in this life , in this genetic information , are signatures of as of yet unidentified life .	雖然解釋生物暗物質存在的假設 , 只存在於它們的初期 , 有一種非常令人振奮的可能性存在:被埋在生命中 , 在這個遺傳信息中 , 是還未被辨識的生命的特徵 。
that as we explore these strings of a's , t's , c's and g's , we may uncover a completely new class of life that , like beijerinck , will fundamentally change the way that we think about the nature of biology .	當我們探索一連串的a、t、t、c、g , 我們可能會發現一種全新的生命類型 , 像是beijinck , 會從根本上改變我們對生物學本質的看法 。
that perhaps will allow us to identify the cause of a cancer that afflicts us or identify the source of an outbreak that we aren't familiar with or perhaps create a new tool in molecular biology .	也許這能讓我們找出折磨我們或辨識出疫情爆發的致病因子的原因 , 或許能讓我們辨識出我們不熟悉的疫苗來源 , 或創造出分子生物學的新工具 。
i'm pleased to announce that , along with colleagues at stanford and caltech and ucsf , we're currently starting an initiative to explore biological dark matter for the existence of new forms of life .	我很高興地宣布 , 和史丹佛大學、加州理工學院及加州大學舊金山的同事一起合作 , 我們目前正開始著手探索生物暗物質 , 來探索新形式生命的存在 。
a little over a hundred years ago , people were unaware of viruses , the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	大約一百多年前 , 人們對病毒一無所知 , 一種組成地球上大部分基因信息的生命形式 。
a hundred years from now , people may marvel that we were perhaps completely unaware of a new class of life that literally was right under our noses .	一百年後 , 人們可能會驚訝 , 我們可能完全沒有意識到一種新的生命類型 , 全都在我們的鼻子底下 。
it's true , we may have charted all the continents on the planet and we may have discovered all the mammals that are out there , but that doesn't mean that there's nothing left to explore on earth .	的確 , 地球上所有的大陸我們可能已經發現了所有的哺乳類動物但這並不表示地球上沒有其它可探索的生物
beijerinck and his kind provide an important lesson for the next generation of explorers people like that young girl from beloit , wisconsin .	beijerinck和他的同事 , 為下一代的探險家提供了一堂課 , 探險家們 , 像那位來自威斯康辛州的貝洛伊特市的年輕女孩 。
and i think if we phrase that lesson , it's something like this: don't assume that what we currently think is out there is the full story .	我想如果我們用這一課來闡述 , 應該是像這樣的:不要假設我們目前所認為的就是全部的故事 。
go after the dark matter in whatever field you choose to explore .	追隨你選擇去探索的任何領域的暗物質 。
there are unknowns all around us and they're just waiting to be discovered .	我們身邊到處都有未知 , 且等著被發現 。
legendary scientist david deutsch puts theoretical physics on the back burner to discuss a more urgent matter: the survival of our species . the first step toward solving global warming , he says , is to admit that we have a problem .	傳奇科學家大衛•戴德•戴斯奇在背上放上理論物理 , 討論更急迫的問題:我們物種的生存 。 解決全球暖化的第一步 , 他說 , 是承認我們有問題 。
climate change , cosmos , culture , environment , global issues , physics , science , technology , universe	氣候變遷、宇宙、宇宙、環境、全球議題、物理、科技、宇宙等 。
david deutsch on our place in the cosmos	大衛•迪特在宇宙中的位置 ,
we've been told to go out on a limb and say something surprising .	我們被告知要踏出肢體 , 說出讓人驚訝的事 。
so i'll try and do that , but i want to start with two things that everyone already knows .	我會試著這樣做 , 但我想要從大家都知道的兩件事開始 。
and the first one , in fact , is something that has been known for most of recorded history .	首先 , 事實上 , 史上大部分的歷史都知道這個現象 。
and that is that the planet earth , or the solar system , or our environment or whatever , is uniquely suited to sustain our evolution or creation , as it used to be thought and our present existence , and most important , our future survival .	那就是地球 , 或太陽系 , 或太陽系 , 或我們的環境等等 , 都是獨一無二的適合維持我們的進化或創造 , 正如我們過去的思想和現在的存在一樣 , 最重要的是我們未來的生存 。
nowadays this idea has a dramatic name: spaceship earth .	今天這個想法有個戲劇性的名字:太空船地球 。
and the idea there is that outside the spaceship , the universe is implacably hostile , and inside is all we have , all we depend on .	這裡的想法是 , 在太空船之外 , 宇宙是極度不友善的 , 而在我們的內心 , 我們依賴的只有這些 。
and we only get the one chance: if we mess up our spaceship , we've got nowhere else to go .	我們只有一個機會:如果我們搞砸了我們的太空船 , 我們無處可去 。
now , the second thing that everyone already knows is that contrary to what was believed for most of human history , human beings are not , in fact , the hub of existence .	第二 , 大家都知道的 , 與我們對人類歷史的信念相反 , 人類其實不是存在的中心 。
as stephen hawking famously said , we're just a chemical scum on the surface of a typical planet that's in orbit around a typical star , which is on the outskirts of a typical galaxy , and so on .	正如史蒂芬•霍金所說 , 我們只是一個典型的星球表面的化學污垢 , 存在於一個典型的星球上 , 位於一個典型的銀河系的郊區 , 諸如此類的 。
now the first of those two things that everyone knows is kind of saying that we're at a very untypical place , uniquely suited and so on , and the second one is saying that we're at a typical place .	首先 , 大家都知道的兩件事 , 有點像是說我們正處在一個非常不典型的地方 , 獨特穿著等等 , 而第二件事則是說我們正處於一個典型的地方 。
and especially if you regard these two as deep truths to live by and to inform your life decisions , then they seem a little bit to conflict with each other .	尤其當你把這二者看作是深奧的真理 , 並以此來呈現你的生活決策 , 那麼他們似乎會互相矛盾 。
but that doesn't prevent them from both being completely false .	但這並不能阻止兩者都變成完全錯誤 。
and they are . so let me start with the second one: typical . well is this a typical place ? well , let's look around , you know , and look in a random direction , and we see a wall , and chemical scum and that's not typical of the universe at all .	它們是的 。 讓我從第二個故事開始:典型的 。 這是典型的嗎 ? 嗯 , 讓我們看看四周 , 往一個隨機的方向看 , 我們看到一面牆 , 化學污染物 , 這完全不是典型的宇宙 。
all you've got to do is go a few hundred miles in that same direction and look back , and you won't see any walls or chemical scum at all all you see is a blue planet . and if you go further than that , you'll see the sun , the solar system , and the stars and so on .	你只需要在同一個方向上走幾百英里 , 然後往回看 , 你不會看到任何牆或化學污染 , 你所看到的都是藍色的星球 。 如果你走得更遠 , 你會看到太陽 , 太陽系 , 太陽系 , 恆星等等 。
but that's still not typical of the universe , because stars come in galaxies .	但這仍然不是宇宙的典型 , 因為星星存在於銀河中 。
and most places in the universe , a typical place in the universe , is nowhere near any galaxies .	宇宙中的大部分地方 , 宇宙中一個典型的地方 , 都不在任何一個星系附近 。
so let's go out further , till we're outside the galaxy , and look back , and yeah , there's the huge galaxy with spiral arms laid out in front of us .	讓我們再往外看 , 直到我們在星系外 , 然後再往回看 , 巨大的星系 , 螺旋狀的手臂在我們面前擺放 。
and at this point we've come 100 , 000 light years from here .	此時 , 我們已經從這裡來了十萬光年 。
but we're still nowhere near a typical place in the universe .	但我們仍然離宇宙中典型的地方很近 。
to get to a typical place , you've got to go 1 , 000 times as far as that into intergalactic space .	要到一個典型的地方 , 你要到達1000倍的空間 , 到達星系間 。
and so what does that look like ? typical .	那會是什麼樣子 ? 典型的 。
what does a typical place in the universe look like ?	宇宙中典型的地方長什麼樣子 ?
well , at enormous expense , ted has arranged a highresolution immersion virtual reality rendering of intergalactic space the view from intergalactic space .	嗯 , 昂貴的代價 , ted已經安排了一個高解析度的虛擬實境展示了星系間空間 , 從星系間空間來看 。
so can we have the lights off , please , so we can see it ?	請把燈關掉 , 讓大家看看吧 ?
well , not quite , not quite perfect you see , in intergalactic space intergalactic space is completely dark , pitch dark .	嗯 , 不是很完美--你看到在星系間的空間中完全是黑暗的 , 漆黑的 。
it's so dark that if you were to be looking at the nearest star to you , and that star were to explode as a supernova , and you were to be staring directly at it at the moment when its light reached you , you still wouldn't be able to see even a glimmer .	很黑暗的 , 如果你在看離你最近的恆星 , 那顆星爆炸成超新星 , 而你正直盯著它看 , 當它的光照到你的時候 , 你還是看不到它甚至連一顆小金星都看不到 。
that's how big and how dark the universe is .	宇宙就是這麼大 , 黑暗的 。
and that's despite the fact that a supernova is so bright , so brilliant an event , that it would kill you stone dead at a range of several light years .	儘管超新星如此的明亮 , 如此聰明 , 以至於它會在幾光年內殺死你 。
and yet from intergalactic space , it's so far away you wouldn't even see it .	但從星系間的空間來看 , 它是如此的遙遠 , 你甚至看不到它 。
it's also very cold out there less than three degrees above absolute zero .	那裡的溫度也非常低 , 低於絕對零度的三度 。
and it's very empty . the vacuum there is one million times less dense than the highest vacuum that our best technology on earth can currently create . so that's how different a typical place is from this place .	它非常的空虛 。 那裡的真空 , 密度比地球上最好的科技所能創造出來的高一百萬倍 。 這就是我們在這個地方所能創造出的不同之處 。
and that is how untypical this place is .	這就是這個地方的典型 。
so can we have the lights back on please ? thank you .	我們能把燈光打回來嗎 ? 謝謝 。
now how do we know about an environment that's so far away , and so different , and so alien , from anything we're used to ?	我們怎麼知道一個離我們這麼遙遠的環境 , 如此不同 , 如此陌生的環境呢 ?
well , the earth our environment , in the form of us is creating knowledge .	嗯 , 地球的環境 , 以我們的形式創造了知識 。
well , what does that mean ? well , look out even further than we've just been i mean from here , with a telescope and you'll see things that look like stars .	這是什麼意思呢 ? 嗯 , 再往外看 , 比我剛剛所說的更遠 , 用望遠鏡 , 看那些看起來像星星的東西 。
they're called " quasars . " quasars originally meant quasistellar object .	他們被稱為 「 夸拉斯 」 , 原本的意思是兩邊形的物體 。
which means things that look a bit like stars . but they're not stars .	這意味著那些看起來有點像星星 , 但不是星星 。
and we know what they are . billions of years ago , and billions of light years away , the material at the center of a galaxy collapsed towards a supermassive black hole .	我們知道它們是什麼 , 幾十億年前 , 數十億光年之外 , 銀河系中心的物質掉落在一個超大質量的黑洞上 。
and then intense magnetic fields directed some of the energy of that gravitational collapse . and some of the matter , back out in the form of tremendous jets which illuminated lobes with the brilliance of i think it's a trillion suns .	接著 , 密集的磁場引導了一些重力崩潰的能量 。 其中一些物質 , 以極大的噴射流形式 , 照亮了葉子 , 以我認為是一兆個太陽的亮度 。
now , the physics of the human brain could hardly be more unlike the physics of such a jet .	人類大腦的物理學 , 幾乎不可能和這種噴射機的物理有所不同 。
we couldn't survive for an instant in it . language breaks down when trying to describe what it would be like in one of those jets .	我們無法一瞬間存活下來 。 一瞬間 , 一瞬間 , 一旦試圖描述某次的噴射流中 , 語言就會崩解 。
it would be a bit like experiencing a supernova explosion , but at pointblank range and for millions of years at a time .	這會有點像經歷超新星的爆炸 , 但在瞬間 , 每次都要經歷數百萬年 。
and yet , that jet happened in precisely such a way that billions of years later , on the other side of the universe , some bit of chemical scum could accurately describe , and model , and predict , and explain , above all there's your reference what was happening there , in reality .	然而 , 這種噴射的發生 , 正是數十億年後 , 在宇宙的另一端 , 一些化學污垢可以準確地描述 , 模型 , 預測 , 和解釋 , 最重要的是 , 在現實中 , 你所看到的一切事物 。
the one physical system , the brain , contains an accurate working model of the other the quasar .	一個物理系統 , 大腦 , 包含了另一個夸拉體的準確工作模型 。
not just a superficial image of it , though it contains that as well , but an explanatory model , embodying the same mathematical relationships and the same causal structure .	不只是表面的圖像 , 雖然它也包含了這個圖像 , 還有一個解釋性的模型 , 體現了相同的數學關係和相同的因果結構 。
now that is knowledge . and if that weren't amazing enough , the faithfulness with which the one structure resembles the other is increasing with time . that is the growth of knowledge .	這就是知識 。 如果這還不夠驚人 , 一個結構的信念 , 相似於時間的增長 , 這就是知識的增長 。
so , the laws of physics have this special property .	所以 , 物理定律有這種特殊的特性 。
that physical objects , as unlike each other as they could possibly be , can nevertheless embody the same mathematical and causal structure and to do it more and more so over time .	這個實體物體 , 不像它們能做到的那樣 , 仍然可以體現出同樣的數學和因果結構 , 隨著時間越來越多 。
so we are a chemical scum that is different . this chemical scum has universality .	我們是一個不一樣的化學污垢 。 這種化學污垢有普遍性 。
its structure contains , with everincreasing precision , the structure of everything . this place , and not other places in the universe , is a hub which contains within itself the structural and causal essence of the whole of the rest of physical reality . and so , far from being insignificant , the fact that the laws of physics allow this , or even mandate that this can happen , is one of the most important things about the physical world .	它的構造有著不斷提升的精準度 , 每件事的結構 。 這個地方 , 而非宇宙其它的地方 , 是一個中心 , 包含了整個物理實體的結構和因果關係 。 到目前為止 , 物理學的原理是不可忽視的 , 事實上 , 物理定律允許這種現象發生的 , 甚至是物理世界中最重要的事情之一 。
now how does the solar system and our environment , in the form of us acquire this special relationship with the rest of the universe ?	那麼 , 太陽系和我們的環境 , 以我們的形式 , 如何獲得這個與宇宙其他部分的特殊關係 ?
well , one thing that's true about stephen hawking's remark i mean , it is true , but it's the wrong emphasis . one thing that's true about it is that it doesn't do it with any special physics . there's no special dispensation , no miracles involved . it does it simply with three things that we have here in abundance .	關於史蒂芬•霍金的評論 , 有一點是對的 , 但這是錯的 , 重點是它沒有任何特殊的物理學 。 沒有特殊的放置 , 沒有特殊的放置 , 沒有特殊的放置 , 沒有特殊的放置 , 沒有奇蹟是介入的 。 它有三個我們所擁有的豐富 。
one of them is matter , because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing . information processing is computation , computation requires a computer there's no known way of making a computer without matter .	其中一個是物質 , 因為知識的成長是信息處理的一種形式 。 信息處理是計算 , 計算需要一台電腦 , 沒有任何方法可以製造一台電腦 。
we also need energy to make the computer , and most important , to make the media in effect onto which we record the knowledge that we discover .	我們也需要能量來製造電腦 , 最重要的是要讓媒體對我們所發現的知識產生影響 。
and then thirdly , less tangible , but just as essential for the openended creation of knowledge , of explanations , is evidence .	第三 , 不具體 , 但對於開放式知識、解釋的開放式解釋而言 , 其本質就是證據 。
now , our environment is inundated with evidence .	我們的環境中充滿了證據 。
we happen to get round to testing , let's say , newton's law of gravity about 300 years ago .	我們碰巧要做測試 , 例如 , 牛頓的重力定律 , 大約300年前 。
but the evidence that we used to do that was falling down on every square meter of the earth for billions of years before that , and will continue to fall on for billions of years afterwards . and the same is true for all the other sciences .	但是我們過去做得到的證據在過去數十億年間 , 地球上每平方公尺的降落著 , 之後還會持續數十億年 。 其他的科學也一樣 。
as far as we know , evidence to discover the most fundamental truths of all the sciences is here just for the taking on our planet .	據我們所知 , 發掘所有科學中最根本的真相的證據 , 只是為了讓我們的星球發生的事 。
our location is saturated with evidence , and also with matter and energy .	我們所在的位置充滿了證據 , 也充滿了物質和能量 。
out in intergalactic space , those three prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge are at their lowest possible supply .	在星系間的空間中 , 這三個創造開放式知識的前提條件是最低限度的 。
as i said , it's empty ; it's cold ; and it's dark out there . or is it ?	如我所說的 , 是空的 , 是冷的 , 外面是暗的 , 是嗎 ?
now actually , that's just another parochial misconception .	事實上 , 這只是另一個狹隘的誤解 。
because imagine a cube out there in intergalactic space , the same size as our home , the solar system . now that cube is very empty by human standards , but that still means that it contains over a million tons of matter .	想像在星系間空間中有一個立方體 , 大小和我們的房子、太陽系大小相同 。 現在 , 立方體是人類的標準非常空的 , 但這仍然意味著它含有超過一百萬噸的物質 。
and a million tons is enough to make , say , a selfcontained space station , on which there's a colony of scientists that are devoted to creating an openended stream of knowledge , and so on .	一百萬噸足以製造出一座自給自足的太空站有一群科學家致力於創建開放式的知識流
now , it's way beyond present technology to even gather the hydrogen from intergalactic space and form it into other elements and so on .	現在 , 遠遠超出現在的科技 , 甚至聚集到星系間的氫 , 將其轉化成其他元素等等 。
but the thing is , in a comprehensible universe , if something isn't forbidden by the laws of physics , then what could possibly prevent us from doing it , other than knowing how ?	但問題是 , 在一個可理解的宇宙中 , 如果某樣東西不被物理定律禁止 , 那麼 , 哪些東西能阻止我們去做 , 除非我們知道如何做呢 ?
in other words , it's a matter of knowledge , not resources .	換句話說 , 問題在於知識 , 而非資源 。
and the same well , if we could do that we'd automatically have an energy supply , because the transmutation would be a fusion reactor and evidence ?	同樣地 , 如果我們能自動取得能源供給 , 因為轉變會是核融合反應爐和證據 ?
well , again , it's dark out there to human senses . but all you've got to do is take a telescope , even one of presentday design , look out and you'll see the same galaxies as we do from here .	嗯 , 同樣地 , 人類的感官也很暗 。 但你只需要用一個望遠鏡 , 即便是用現今的設計 , 看看外面的銀河 , 就像我們從這裡看到的一樣 。
and with a more powerful telescope , you'll be able to see stars , and planets .	用一個更強大的望遠鏡 , 你可以看見星星 , 行星 。
in those galaxies , you'll be able to do astrophysics , and learn the laws of physics .	在那些星系中 , 你可以做天體物理學 , 並且學習物理定律 。
and locally there you could build particle accelerators , and learn elementary particle physics , and chemistry , and so on .	局部在那裡 , 你可以建立粒子加速器 , 學習基本粒子物理學 , 化學等 。
probably the hardest science to do would be biology field trips because it would take several hundred million years to get to the nearest lifebearing planet and back .	最難做的科學可能是生物學實地考察 , 因為要花上數億年才能到達最近的生物體 , 再回來 。
but i have to tell you and sorry , richard but i never did like biology field trips much , and i think we can just about make do with one every few hundred million years .	但我得告訴各位 , 很抱歉 , 理查 , 但我從來不喜歡生物學實地考察 , 我想我們可以每隔幾億年就完成一次 。
so in fact , intergalactic space does contain all the prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge . any such cube , anywhere in the universe , could become the same kind of hub that we are , if the knowledge of how to do so were present there .	所以 , 事實上 , 星系間空間確實包含了所有開放式知識的前提 。 任何一個立方體 , 在宇宙中的任何一個角落 , 都可以變成跟我們一樣的樞紐 , 如果知道怎麼做的話 。
so we're not in a uniquely hospitable place .	我們並不是在一個獨特的友好環境裡 。
if intergalactic space is capable of creating an openended stream of explanations , then so is almost every other environment . so is the earth . so is a polluted earth .	如果星系間的空間能夠創造出一串開放式的解釋流 , 那麼 , 幾乎其他的環境也是 。 地球也是污染的地球 。
and the limiting factor , there and here , is not resources , because they're plentiful , but knowledge , which is scarce .	限制因素 , 這裡和這裡 , 不是資源 , 因為資源很充足 , 但知識 , 很稀少 。
now this cosmic knowledgebased view may and i think ought to make us feel very special . but it should also make us feel vulnerable , because it means that without the specific knowledge that's needed to survive the ongoing challenges of the universe , we won't survive them .	現在這個宇宙知識型的觀點 , 也許我認為應該讓我們感到非常特別 。 但這也應該讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為這意味著 , 若沒有需要特定的知識 , 能夠在宇宙中持續存在的挑戰中存活下來 , 我們就無法存活下來 。
all it takes is for a supernova to go off a few light years away , and we'll all be dead !	只需要幾光年的超新星消失 , 我們就死了 !
martin rees has recently written a book about our vulnerability to all sorts of things , from astrophysics , to scientific experiments gone wrong , and most importantly to terrorism with weapons of mass destruction .	馬丁•雷斯最近寫了一本書 , 關於我們對於各種事物的脆弱 , 從天體物理學 , 到科學實驗出錯 , 最重要的是 , 和大規模毀滅性武器的恐怖主義有關 。
and he thinks that civilization has only a 50 percent chance of surviving this century .	他認為人類文明只有50%的機率能在這個世紀存活下來 。
i think he's going to talk about that later in the conference .	我想他晚點會在研討會上討論這個議題 。
now i don't think that probability is the right category to discuss this issue in .	我不認為機率是正確的類別 , 可以討論這個議題 。
but i do agree with him about this . we can survive , and we can fail to survive .	但我同意他的看法 , 我們可以生存下來 , 我們可以失敗生存 。
but it depends not on chance , but on whether we create the relevant knowledge in time .	但這並不取決於機率 , 而是在於我們是否能及時創造出相關的知識 。
the danger is not at all unprecedented . species go extinct all the time .	這種危險完全不是前所未有的物種會絕種
civilizations end . the overwhelming majority of all species and all civilizations that have ever existed are now history .	文明的結尾 , 絕大多數的物種 , 和所有的文明 , 都是現在的歷史 。
and if we want to be the exception to that , then logically our only hope is to make use of the one feature that distinguishes our species , and our civilization , from all the others namely , our special relationship with the laws of physics , our ability to create new explanations , new knowledge to be a hub of existence .	如果我們想要成為例外的話 , 那麼我們唯一的希望就是使用一種特徵來區分我們人類和文明 , 與其他所有特徵 , 即 , 我們與物理定律的特殊關係 , 我們創造新的解釋能力 , 新的知識成為存在的中心 。
so let me now apply this to a current controversy , not because i want to advocate any particular solution , but just to illustrate the kind of thing i mean .	讓我把這個應用在當前的爭議上 , 不是因為我想要提倡任何特定的解決方案 , 而只是要說明我要說的 。
and the controversy is global warming .	爭議就是全球暖化 。
now , i'm a physicist , but i'm not the right kind of physicist . in regard to global warming , i'm just a layman . and the rational thing for a layman to do is to take seriously the prevailing scientific theory . and according to that theory , it's already too late to avoid a disaster .	我是一個物理學家 , 但是我不是一個正確的物理學家 。 以全球暖化的角度來說 , 我只是個懶人 。 理性地 , 要認真看待科學的理論 。 根據這個理論 , 已經太晚了 , 無法避免災難 。
because if it's true that our best option at the moment is to prevent co2 emissions with something like the kyoto protocol , with its constraints on economic activity and its enormous cost of hundreds of billions of dollars or whatever it is , then that is already a disaster by any reasonable measure .	因為如果這是真的 , 我們目前最好的選項是防止二氧化碳排放 , 像是京都議定書 , 經濟活動的限制 , 以及數百億美元的巨大成本 , 不管是什麼 , 那就已經是個災難了 。
and the actions that are advocated are not even purported to solve the problem , merely to postpone it by a little . so it's already too late to avoid it , and it probably has been too late to avoid it ever since before anyone realized the danger .	而那些倡導的行動 , 甚至沒有被提出來解決這個問題的行動 , 僅僅是稍微延遲這個問題 , 已經太遲了 。 要避免它 , 可能已經太遲了 , 無法避免它 , 自從任何人意識到它的危險就開始了 。
it was probably already too late in the 1970s , when the best available scientific theory was telling us that industrial emissions were about to precipitate a new ice age in which billions would die .	在1970年代 , 可能已經太晚了 , 當時最好的科學理論告訴我們 , 工業排放量即將造成數十億人死亡的新冰河時代 。
now the lesson of that seems clear to me , and i don't know why it isn't informing public debate .	這件事讓我很清楚 , 我也不知道為什麼它沒有公開辯論 。
it is that we can't always know . when we know of an impending disaster , and how to solve it at a cost less than the cost of the disaster itself , then there's not going to be much argument , really .	這是我們永遠無法得知的 。 當我們知道即將發生的災難 , 以及如何解決這災難的代價不到災難的代價時 , 真的沒有太多的爭論 。
but no precautions , and no precautionary principle , can avoid problems that we do not yet foresee .	但沒有預防措施 , 沒有預防措施 , 可以避免我們還沒有預防的問題 。
hence , we need a stance of problemfixing , not just problemavoidance .	因此 , 我們需要一個解決問題的立場 , 而不是僅限於問題 。
and it's true that an ounce of prevention equals a pound of cure , but that's only if we know what to prevent .	的確 , 一盎司的預防方法等於一磅的解藥 , 但這只是我們知道如何預防 。
if you've been punched on the nose , then the science of medicine does not consist of teaching you how to avoid punches .	如果你已經在鼻子上打了一拳 , 那麼醫學的科學就無法教你如何避免拳擊 。
if medical science stopped seeking cures and concentrated on prevention only , then it would achieve very little of either .	如果醫學不再尋求治療 , 只專注於預防 , 那它也幾乎無法達成 。
the world is buzzing at the moment with plans to force reductions in gas emissions at all costs .	此時此刻 , 世界正忙著計劃著減少氣體排放的計劃 , 不計代價 。
it ought to be buzzing with plans to reduce the temperature , and with plans to live at the higher temperature and not at all costs , but efficiently and cheaply . and some such plans exist , things like swarms of mirrors in space to deflect the sunlight away , and encouraging aquatic organisms to eat more carbon dioxide .	它應該要以計劃來降低溫度 , 並計劃生存到更高的溫度 , 不計代價 , 而是更有效率、更便宜的計劃 。 有些計劃是 , 像是一群鏡子 , 來將陽光偏轉 , 鼓勵水分生物消耗更多二氧化碳 。
at the moment , these things are fringe research .	此時此刻 , 這些都是邊緣的研究 。
they're not central to the human effort to face this problem , or problems in general .	他們不是人類努力解決這個問題的核心 , 也不是一般性的解決方法 。
and with problems that we are not aware of yet , the ability to put right not the sheer good luck of avoiding indefinitely is our only hope , not just of solving problems , but of survival .	有了我們還沒意識到的問題 , 能夠正確地解決問題的能力 , 不是無限期地避免好運的能力 , 是我們唯一的希望 , 不只是解決問題 , 還有生存問題 。
so take two stone tablets , and carve on them .	拿兩個石板 , 刻在上面 。
on one of them , carve: " problems are soluble . "	其中一個 , 雕刻: 「 問題是可以解決的 。 」
and on the other one carve: " problems are inevitable . "	而在另一個雕刻上: 「 問題是不可避免的 。 」
how can a struggling country break out of poverty if it's trapped in a system of bad rules ? economist paul romer unveils a bold idea: " charter cities , " cityscale administrative zones governed by a coalition of nations .	如果一個國家的制度被困在不良的制度下 , 要如何讓一個掙扎的國家擺脫貧窮 ? 如果它被困在不良的制度下 ? 經濟學家保羅•羅默揭開一個大膽的想法: 「 特許城市 」 、 「 城市 」 的行政區 , 被國家聯盟統治 。
business , culture , economics , global issues , politics	商業、文化、經濟、全球議題、政治、政治 ,
paul romer's radical idea: charter cities	保羅羅•羅馬極端的想法:特定的城市 。
take a look at this picture .	看看這張照片 。
it poses a very fascinating puzzle for us .	它為我們帶來了一個非常迷人的謎題 。
these african students are doing their homework under streetlights at the airport in the capital city because they don't have any electricity at home .	這些非洲學生在做功課 , 是在首都機場的路燈下做功課 , 因為他們家裡沒有電 。
now , i haven't met these particular students , but i've met students like them .	我還沒見過這些特定的學生 , 但我碰過像他們一樣的學生 。
let's just pick one for example , the one in the green shirt .	舉個例子 , 綠色襯衫的這一隻 。
let's give him a name , too: nelson .	我們也給他一個名字尼爾森 。
i'll bet nelson has a cellphone .	我打賭尼爾森有一支手機 。
so here is the puzzle .	這是謎題 。
why is it that nelson has access to a cuttingedge technology , like the cellphone , but doesn't have access to a 100yearold technology for generating electric light in the home ?	為什麼nelson可以使用先進技術 , 像手機 , 但無法取得一個一百年的技術 , 來在家中產生電燈 ?
now , in a word , the answer is " rules . "	簡單來說 , 答案是 「 規則 」 。
bad rules can prevent the kind of winwin solution that's available when people can bring new technologies in and make them available to someone like nelson .	糟糕的規則可以防止雙贏的解決方案在人們可以把新科技帶進來 , 讓像nelson這樣的人可以使用 。
what kinds of rules ?	什麼樣的規則 ?
the electric company in this nation operates under a rule , which says that it has to sell electricity at a very low , subsidized price in fact , a price that is so low it loses money on every unit that it sells .	這個國家的電力公司遵循一條規則 , 認為它必須以非常低的價格銷售電力 , 事實上 , 它的價格很低 , 賣掉的每一單位都要價錢 。
so it has neither the resources , nor the incentives , to hook up many other users .	所以它既沒有資源 , 也沒有動機去連結許多其他用戶 。
the president wanted to change this rule .	總統想要改變這條規則 。
he's seen that it's possible to have a different set of rules , rules where businesses earn a small profit , so they have an incentive to sign up more customers .	他見到 , 有一組不同的規則和規則 , 讓企業獲利很小 , 所以他們有動機去登記客戶 。
that's the kind of rules that the cellphone company that nelson purchases his telephony from operates under .	這是尼爾森從下面運作中購買手機電話的那種規則 。
the president has seen how those rules worked well .	總統已經知道這些規則如何運作良好 。
so he tried to change the rules for pricing on electricity , but ran into a firestorm of protest from businesses and consumers who wanted to preserve the existing subsidized rates .	所以他試著改變電價價的規則 , 但他碰到的卻是來自企業和消費者的抗議暴風暴 , 想要保存既有的補貼比率 。
so he was stuck with rules that prevented him from letting the winwin solution help his country .	所以他堅守著規則 , 避免他讓雙贏解決方案幫助他的國家 。
and nelson is stuck studying under the streetlights .	尼爾森卡在街燈下學習 。
the real challenge then , is to try to figure out how we can change rules .	真正的挑戰在於 , 是試著弄清楚如何改變規則 。
are there some rules we can develop for changing rules ?	有一些規則我們可以發展出改變規則的發展嗎 ?
i want to argue that there is a general abstract insight that we can make practical , which is that , if we can give more choices to people , and more choices to leaders who , in many countries , are also people .	我想強調的是 , 有一個普遍的抽象的見解 , 能夠實際做事的見解 , 那就是 , 如果我們能給予人們更多的選擇 , 對許多國家的領導者更多的選擇 , 也是人 。
but , it's useful to present the opposition between these two .	但 , 呈現出這兩者之間的反對意見是很有用的 。
because the kind of choice you might want to give to a leader , a choice like giving the president the choice to raise prices on electricity , takes away a choice that people in the economy want .	因為你可能想要給領導者的那種選擇 , 像是給總統在電力上提高價格 , 在經濟上 , 剝奪人民想要的選項 。
they want the choice to be able to continue consuming subsidized electric power .	他們希望選擇繼續使用補貼的電力 。
so if you give just to one side or the other , you'll have tension or friction .	如果你只給一邊或另一邊 , 你就會有張力或摩擦力 。
but if we can find ways to give more choices to both , that will give us a set of rules for changing rules that get us out of traps .	但如果我們能找到方法給雙方更多的選擇 , 那就給了我們一套規則 , 來改變那些讓我們脫離困境的規則 。
now , nelson also has access to the internet .	現在 , 尼爾森也能上網 。
and he says that if you want to see the damaging effects of rules , the ways that rules can keep people in the dark , look at the pictures from nasa of the earth at night .	他說 , 如果你想看到規則的破壞作用 , 規則能讓人們在黑暗中 , 看著美國太空總署在晚上拍攝的照片 。
in particular check out asia .	特別是看看亞洲 。
if you zoom in here , you can see north korea , in outline here , which is like a black hole compared to its neighbors .	如果你拉近這裡 , 可以看到北韓 , 在這邊的線上 , 跟旁邊的黑洞相比 , 像個黑洞 。
now , you won't be surprised to learn that the rules in north korea keep people there in the dark .	現在 , 你不會驚訝地發現北韓的規則讓人們在黑暗中保持在黑暗中
but it is important to recognize that north korea and south korea started out with identical sets of rules in both the sense of laws and regulations , but also in the deeper senses of understandings , norms , culture , values and beliefs .	但 , 重要的是要了解 , 北韓和南韓始於一貫的制度 , 無論是法律或法規 , 還是更深層的理解、規範、文化、價值觀 , 和信念 。
when they separated , they made choices that led to very divergent paths for their sets of rules .	當他們分開時 , 他們做了選擇 , 導致他們各自的規則走上了非常不同的道路 。
so we can change we as humans can change the rules that we use to interact with each other , for better , or for worse .	我們可以改變身為人類的我們 , 可以改變我們彼此互動的規則 , 改善或改善 。
now let's look at another region , the caribbean .	現在讓我們看看另一個地區 , 加勒比海 。
zoom in on haiti , in outline here .	放大在海地上 , 在這邊的線上 。
haiti is also dark , compared to its neighbor here , the dominican republic , which has about the same number of residents .	海地也是黑暗的 , 相較於這裡的鄰居多明尼加共和國 , 那裡的居民數量也差不多 。
both of these countries are dark compared to puerto rico , which has half as many residents as either haiti or the dominican republic .	這兩個國家都是黑暗的 , 相較於波多黎各 , 波多黎各有一半的居民是海地或多明尼加共和國 。
what haiti warns us is that rules can be bad because governments are weak .	海地警告我們的是 , 規則是不好的 , 因為政府很弱 。
it's not just that the rules are bad because the government is too strong and oppressive , as in north korea .	不光是這些規則是不好的 , 因為政府的力量太大 , 太壓迫 , 就像在北韓一樣 。
so that if we want to create environments with good rules , we can't just tear down .	所以如果我們想創造出有良好規則的環境 , 我們不能只拆掉 。
we've got to find ways to build up , as well .	我們也得想辦法建設 。
now , china dramatically demonstrates both the potential and the challenges of working with rules .	現在 , 中國戲劇性地展示了與規則合作的潛力和挑戰 。
back in the beginning of the data presented in this chart , china was the world's hightechnology leader .	回到資料的一開始 , 中國是世界上高科技領袖 。
chinese had pioneered technologies like steel , printing , gunpowder .	中國擁有先驅科技 , 例如鋼、印刷、火藥等技術 。
but the chinese never adopted , at least in that period , effective rules for encouraging the spread of those ideas a profit motive that could have encouraged the spread .	但中國人從來沒有採用 , 至少在那個時期 , 有效的規則上 , 來鼓勵那些想法散播出去的利益動機 , 這樣才能鼓勵散播出去 。
and they soon adopted rules which slowed down innovation and cut china off from the rest of the world .	他們很快就採用了規則 , 減緩了創新的速度 , 把中國從世界其他地方除去 。
so as other countries in the world innovated , in the sense both of developing newer technologies , but also developing newer rules , the chinese were cut off from those advances .	隨著世界上其他國家的創新 , 在發展新科技的同時 , 也發展新的規則 , 中國也從這些進步中脫離 。
income there stayed stagnant , as it zoomed ahead in the rest of the world .	那裡的收入仍然停滯不前 , 隨著世界其他地方的收入逐漸縮小 。
this next chart looks at more recent data .	下一張圖表是比較近期的數據 。
it plots income , average income in china as a percentage of average income in the united states .	它描繪了中國的平均收入在美國是平均收入的百分比
in the '50s and '60s you can see that it was hovering at about three percent .	在1950和1960年代 , 大家可以看到 , 大約有3%的人在空中盤旋 。
but then in the late '70s something changed .	但在70年代末期 , 情況改變了 。
growth took off in china . the chinese started catching up very quickly with the united states .	成長在中國開始 , 中國開始趕上美國 。
if you go back to the map at night , you can get a clue to the process that lead to the dramatic change in rules in china .	如果你在晚上回到地圖上 , 你可以得到一條線索 , 引領中國的體制有劇烈變化 。
the brightest spot in china , which you can see on the edge of the outline here , is hong kong .	中國最亮的地點 , 在這條線的邊緣 , 就是香港 。
hong kong was a small bit of china that , for most of the 20th century , operated under a very different set of rules than the rest of mainland china rules that were copied from working market economies of the time , and administered by the british .	香港只是中國的一小部分 , 在20世紀 , 大部份的運作都是以非常不同的規則運作 , 相較於其餘的中國規則 , 當時勞動市場經濟 , 由英國政府來執行 。
in the 1950s , hong kong was a place where millions of people could go , from the mainland , to start in jobs like sewing shirts , making toys .	在1950年代 , 香港是一個有數百萬人可以去的地方 , 從大陸到大陸 , 開始像縫製衣服、做玩具的地方 。
but , to get on a process of increasing income , increasing skills led to very rapid growth there .	但 , 為了進一步 , 增加收入 , 增加技能 , 導致非常快速的成長 。
hong kong was also the model which leaders like deng xiaoping could copy , when they decided to move all of the mainland towards the market model .	香港也是個典範 , 領導人像鄧小平能夠複製 , 當他們決定將整個大陸移向市場模式時 。
but deng xiaoping instinctively understood the importance of offering choices to his people .	但鄧小平直覺地了解到提供人民選擇的重要性 。
so instead of forcing everyone in china to shift immediately to the market model , they proceeded by creating some special zones that could do , in a sense , what britain did: make the opportunity to go work with the market rules available to the people who wanted to opt in there .	所以 , 與其強迫中國的每個人立即轉換到市場模式 , 他們不如通過創建一些特區 , 某種程度上來說 , 可以做到的 , 英國所做的是:讓機會與市場規則一同使用 , 讓那些想要參與市場的人們能夠參與 。
so they created four special economic zones around hong kong: zones where chinese could come and work , and cities grew up very rapidly there ; also zones where foreign firms could come in and make things .	所以他們在香港周圍建立了四個經濟特區 , 讓中國能夠來工作 , 城市在當地成長非常快速 ; 外國企業也可以進來 , 做點什麼 。
one of the zones next to hong kong has a city called shenzhen .	香港旁邊的其中一區有個城市叫做深圳 。
in that city there is a taiwanese firm that made the iphone that many of you have , and they made it with labor from chinese who moved there to shenzhen .	在那個城市裡 , 有一家台灣公司製造了你們很多人都擁有的iphone , 他們和來自中國的勞工一起工作 , 他們搬到深圳的中國人 。
so after the four special zones , there were 14 coastal cites that were open in the same sense , and eventually demonstrated successes in these places that people could opt in to , that they flocked to because of the advantages they offered .	在四個特別的區域之後 , 有十四個沿海城市在同一方面開放 , 最終在這些地方展示出成功 , 人民可以選擇居住的地方 , 因為他們提供的優勢 。
demonstrated successes there led to a consensus for a move toward the market model for the entire economy .	證實了成功導致一致同意向整個經濟體邁進市場模式的共識 。
now the chinese example shows us several points .	中國的例子顯示了幾個點 。
one is: preserve choices for people .	第一 , 保留對人的選擇 。
two: operate on the right scale .	二:在正確的尺度上運作 。
if you try to change the rules in a village , you could do that , but a village would be too small to get the kinds of benefits you can get if you have millions of people all working under good rules .	如果你試著改變一個村落裡的規則 , 你可以做到 , 但村落會太小 , 無法得到好處 , 如果你有數百萬人都在做好的體制下工作 。
on the other hand , the nation is too big .	另一方面 , 國家太大了 。
if you try to change the rules in the nation , you can't give some people a chance to hold back , see how things turn out , and let others zoom ahead and try the new rules .	如果你試圖改變這個國家的規則 , 你就不能給一些人一個機會來支撐 , 看看事情如何發生 , 讓其他人先放大 , 嘗試新的規則 。
but cities give you this opportunity to create new places , with new rules that people can opt in to .	但 , 城市給了你機會 , 創造出新地方、有新的規則 , 讓人們可以選擇 。
and they're large enough to get all of the benefits that we can have when millions of us work together under good rules .	它們夠大 , 足以得到我們所能擁有的所有好處 , 只要我們在數百萬人的統治之下 , 我們就能擁有所有的好處 。
so the proposal is that we conceive of something called a charter city .	提議的是我們構想一個叫做特區城市的東西 。
we start with a charter that specifies all the rules required to attract the people who we'll need to build the city .	我們從一個特定規則開始 , 規範所有規則 , 來吸引我們建立城市的人 。
we'll need to attract the investors who will build out the infrastructure the power system , the roads , the port , the airport , the buildings .	我們得要吸引投資者 , 他們會建立基礎建設──能源系統、道路、港口、機場、建築 。
you'll need to attract firms , who will come hire the people who move there first .	你需要吸引一家公司 , 他們首先會僱用那些搬到那兒的人 。
and you'll need to attract families , the residents who will come and live there permanently , raise their children , get an education for their children , and get their first job .	你需要吸引家庭 , 接觸到那些將來會永久居住的居民 , 撫養他們的孩子 , 為他們的孩子取得教育 , 取得他們的第一份工作 。
with that charter , people will move there .	有了這個章節 , 人們就會搬到那裡去 。
the city can be built .	城市可以被建造起來 。
and we can scale this model .	我們可以擴大這個模式 。
we can go do it over and over again .	我們可以不斷地重複這個動作 。
to make it work , we need good rules . we've already discussed that .	要成功 , 我們需要好的規則 。 我們已經討論過了 。
those are captured in the charter .	那些都在憲章中被捕獲 。
we also need the choices for people .	我們也需要人們的選擇 。
that's really built into the model if we allow for the possibility of building cities on uninhabited land .	這真的是建立在模式之中如果我們能在無人居住的土地上建立城市
you start from uninhabited territory .	從無人居住的領土開始 。
people can come live under the new charter , but no one is forced to live under it .	人們可以在新的章節裡生活 , 但沒有人會被強迫在它底下生活 。
the final thing we need are choices for leaders .	最後 , 我們需要的是對領導者的選擇 。
and , to achieve the kind of choices we want for leaders we need to allow for the potential for partnerships between nations: cases where nations work together , in effect , de facto , the way china and britain worked together to build , first a little enclave of the market model , and then scale it throughout china .	為了達成我們希望領導者能做出的選擇我們需要讓國家之間的合作夥伴們能夠一起合作 , 實際上 , 中國和英國合作的方式 , 首先建構一個小小的市場模型 , 然後再將它擴大到整個中國 。
in a sense , britain , inadvertently , through its actions in hong kong , did more to reduce world poverty than all the aid programs that we've undertaken in the last century .	在某種意義上 , 英國 , 不經意地 , 透過香港的行動 , 減少了世界貧窮 , 比上個世紀我們已經完成的援助計畫還要多 。
so if we allow for these kind of partnerships to replicate this again , we can get those kinds of benefits scaled throughout the world .	所以如果我們讓這樣的合作關係再度重現 , 我們就能讓全世界都得到這些好處 。
in some cases this will involve a delegation of responsibility , a delegation of control from one country to another to take over certain kinds of administrative responsibilities .	在某些情況下 , 這會讓負責任的授權 , 由一個國家的控制權授權到另一個國家 , 來接管一些行政責任 。
now , when i say that , some of you are starting to think , " well , is this just bringing back colonialism ? "	現在 , 當我這麼說的時候 , 有些人開始想: 「 嗯 , 這會讓殖民主義恢復嗎 ? 」
it's not . but it's important to recognize that the kind of emotions that come up when we start to think about these things , can get in the way , can make us pull back , can shut down our ability , and our interest in trying to explore new ideas .	不是 。 但很重要的是要了解到當我們開始思考這些事時所產生的那種情緒 , 可能會阻礙我們回過頭去 , 可能會停止我們的能力 , 同時我們對探索新點子的興趣 。
why is this not like colonialism ?	為什麼這和殖民主義不同 ?
the thing that was bad about colonialism , and the thing which is residually bad in some of our aid programs , is that it involved elements of coercion and condescension .	殖民主義的不好之處在於 , 在某些援助計畫中 , 居住地很不好 , 是因為它牽涉到強權和優越的元素 。
this model is all about choices , both for leaders and for the people who will live in these new places .	這種模式的重點在於選擇 , 不論是領導者 , 對於住在新地方的人來說 , 都是如此 。
and , choice is the antidote to coercion and condescension .	選擇是強迫和強迫的解藥 。
so let's talk about how this could play out in practice .	咱們來談談如何實踐它 。
let's take a particular leader , raul castro , who is the leader of cuba .	讓我們看看某個特定的領袖 , 拉爾•卡斯楚 , 他是古巴的領袖 。
it must have occurred to castro that he has the chance to do for cuba what deng xiaoping did for china , but he doesn't have a hong kong there on the island in cuba .	卡斯楚一定想過他有機會為古巴古巴做些什麼 , 讓鄧小平在古巴島上沒有香港 。
he does , though , have a little bit of light down in the south that has a very special status .	不過 , 他的確有一點點南方的光 , 南方的地位非常特別 。
there is a zone there , around guantanamo bay , where a treaty gives the united states administrative responsibility for a piece of land that's about twice the size of manhattan .	在關達那摩灣周圍有一區 , 在那裡有條約為美國政府負責一塊土地 , 大約是曼哈頓的兩倍大 。
castro goes to the prime minister of canada and says , " look , the yankees have a terrible pr problem .	卡斯楚跑去加拿大總理的首相 , 說: 「 聽著 , 南基斯有個可怕的公關問題 。
they want to get out .	他們想要逃出去 。
why don't you , canada , take over ?	你為什麼不 , 加拿大 , 接管呢 ?
build run a special administrative zone .	建造一個特殊的行政區 。
allow a new city to be built up there .	讓一座新城市在上面建設 。
allow many people to come in .	讓許多人進來 。
let us have a hong kong nearby .	讓我們附近有個香港 。
some of my citizens will move into that city as well .	我的一些公民也會搬到那個城市 。
others will hold back . but this will be the gateway that will connect the modern economy and the modern world to my country . "	其他人會退縮 , 但這會是通往我國家的現代經濟和現代世界的通道 。 」
now , where else might this model be tried ?	那麼 , 這模式還能在哪裡試驗呢 ?
well , africa . i've talked with leaders in africa .	非洲 , 我和非洲的領袖談過 。
many of them totally get the notion of a special zone that people can opt into as a rule .	當中許多人完全了解一個特區的概念 , 人們可以選擇一個特區來做為一條規則 。
it's a rule for changing rules .	它是改變規則的規則 。
it's a way to create new rules , and let people optin without coercion , and the opposition that coercion can force .	它是一種創造新規則的方法 , 讓人們選擇選擇愛因斯坦 , 沒有強制力 , 同時也沒有強制力 。
they also totally get the idea that in some instances they can make more credible promises to longterm investors the kind of investors who will come build the port , build the roads , in a new city they can make more credible promises if they do it along with a partner nation .	他們也完全了解到 , 在某些情況下 , 他們可以對長期投資者做出更好的承諾 , 那些將來建造港口、建造道路的投資者 , 在一個新城市中 , 他們可以做出更可信的承諾 , 只要他們能和一個合作夥伴的國家合作 , 他們就能做出更好的承諾 。
perhaps even in some arrangement that's a little bit like an escrow account , where you put land in the escrow account and the partner nation takes responsibility for it .	也許就算在某些安排中 , 有點像信託管理帳戶 , 你把土地放在信託管理帳戶裡 , 另一半的國家也需要對它負責 。
there is also lots of land in africa where new cities could be built .	在非洲也有許多土地可以建造新城市 。
this is a picture i took when i was flying along the coast .	這是在我沿著海岸飛行時拍的照片 。
there are immense stretches of land like this land where hundreds of millions of people could live .	像這樣的大地 , 有著巨大的延伸 , 讓數億人可以住在這樣的土地上 。
now , if we generalize this and think about not just one or two charter cites , but dozens cities that will help create places for the many hundreds of millions , perhaps billions of people who will move to cities in the coming century is there enough land for them ?	如果我們概括一下並思考 , 不只一到二個特區 , 而是數十個城市 , 能為數億億人創造空間 , 也許未來的數十億人會搬到城市去 , 在未來的未來有足夠的土地給他們 ?
well , throughout the world , if we look at the lights at night , the one thing that's misleading is that , visually , it looks like most of the world is already built out .	嗯 , 在全世界 , 如果我們看看夜晚的燈光 , 其中一個誤導是 , 視覺上看來 , 世界上大部分的人已經被建造出來了 。
so let me show you why that's wrong .	讓我來解釋為什麼那是錯的 。
take this representation of all of the land .	把所有土地的樣貌呈現出來 。
turn it into a square that stands for all the arable land on earth .	把它變成一個方塊 , 代表地球上所有的可耕地 。
and let these dots represent the land that's already taken up by the cities that three billion people now live in .	讓這些點代表已經被現在居住的三十億人口所佔據的城市 。
if you move the dots down to the bottom of the rectangle you can see that the cities for the existing three billion urban residents take up only three percent of the arable land on earth .	如果你把這些點移到長方形的底部 , 你可以看到 , 目前存在三十億個城市居民的城市只佔地球上百分之三的可耕地 。
so if we wanted to build cities for another billion people , they would be dots like this .	所以如果我們想要為另外十億人建造城市 , 他們就會變成這樣 。
we'd go from three percent of the arable land , to four percent .	我們從3%的耕地 , 變成4% 。
we'd dramatically reduce the human footprint on earth by building more cities that people can move to .	我們大幅減少了人類在地球上的足跡 , 藉由建造更多人們可以移動的城市 。
and if these are cities governed by good rules , they can be cities where people are safe from crime , safe from disease and bad sanitation , where people have a chance to get a job .	如果這些城市遵守良好的規則 , 就能成為人們從犯罪、疾病和衛生的安全城市 , 在那裡 , 人們有機會得到一份工作 。
they can get basic utilities like electricity .	他們可以得到一些基本公共事業 , 像是電力 。
their kids can get an education .	他們的孩子可以得到教育 。
so what will it take to get started building the first charter cities , scaling this so we build many more ?	所以 , 要花什麼代價 , 才能開始建造第一座特區的城市 , 擴大規模 , 才能建造出更多這樣的城市 ?
it would help to have a manual .	一份手冊會比較好 。
what university professors could do is write some details that might go into this manual .	大學教授們可以做的就是撰寫一些文章裡的細節 。
you wouldn't want to let us run the cities , go out and design them .	你不會想讓我們經營城市 , 走出去設計城市 。
you wouldn't let academics out in the wild .	你不會讓學者在野外 。
but , you could set us to work thinking about questions like , suppose it isn't just canada that does the deal with raul castro .	但 , 你可以讓我們開始思考一些問題 , 例如 , 假設加拿大不僅能處理拉帕斯楚問題 。
perhaps brazil comes in as a participant , and spain as well . and perhaps cuba wants to be one of the partners in a fourway joint venture .	也許巴西是參與者 , 西班牙也是 。 或許古巴想成為四方聯合創業的夥伴之一 。
how would we write the treaty to do that ?	我們要如何撰寫協定來做這件事 ?
there is less precedent for that , but that could easily be worked out .	之前的比例較少 , 但這可能很容易被解決 。
how would we finance this ?	我們要如何資助它 ?
turns out singapore and hong kong are cities that made huge gains on the value of the land that they owned when they got started .	結果發現 , 新加坡和香港都是一開始擁有土地的巨大收穫城市 。
you could use the gains on the value of the land to pay for things like the police , the courts , but the school system and the health care system too , which make this a more attractive place to live , makes this a place where people have higher incomes which , incidentally , makes the land more valuable .	你可以利用土地的收穫來支付警察、法庭的費用 , 但學校的體制和健康照護體系 , 使得土地更具吸引力 , 更具吸引力 , 讓人們有更高的收入 , 如此一來 , 土地就會更有價值 。
so the incentives for the people helping to construct this zone and build it , and set up the basic rules , go very much in the right direction .	所以 , 協助建造這塊區域的人的誘因 , 建立起它 , 建立基礎的規則 , 朝向正確的方向前進 。
so there are many other details like this .	還有很多其他的細節 。
how could we have buildings that are low cost and affordable for people who work in a first job , assembling something like an iphone , but make those buildings energy efficient , and make sure that they are safe , so they don't fall down in an earthquake or a hurricane .	我們要如何讓那些低成本的建築物 , 讓第一份工作的人們 , 組裝成iphone , 卻能讓這些建築物節能 , 確保它們是安全的 , 不會落在地震或颶風中 。
many technical details to be worked out , but those of us who are already starting to pursue these things can already tell that there is no roadblock , there's no impediment , other than a failure of imagination , that will keep us from delivering on a truly global winwin solution .	很多技術上的細節已經被解決了 , 但是我們這些已經開始追求這些東西的人已經知道沒有路障、沒有阻礙 , 除了想像力的失敗之外 , 還會讓我們無法實現真正的全球雙贏解決方案 。
let me conclude with this picture .	讓我用這張照片作結 。
the reason we can be so well off , even though there is so many people on earth , is because of the power of ideas .	儘管地球上有這麼多人 , 我們之所以能如此順利 , 是因為想法的力量 。
we can share ideas with other people , and when they discover them , they share with us .	我們可以和其他人分享想法 , 當他們發現他們時 , 他們也會和我們分享 。
it's not like scarce objects , where sharing means we each get less .	這不像稀少的物品 , 共享意味著我們每個人都會變少 。
when we share ideas we all get more .	當我們分享想法時 , 我們都會得到更多 。
when we think about ideas in that way , we usually think about technologies .	當我們用這種方式思考想法時 , 我們通常會想到科技 。
but there is another class of ideas: the rules that govern how we interact with each other ; rules like , let's have a tax system that supports a research university that gives away certain kinds of knowledge for free .	但還有另外一類的想法:主導我們如何互動的規則 ; 例如 , 規則 , 讓我們來制定一個支援研究大學的課程系統 , 免費提供某種程度的知識 。
let's have a system where we have ownership of land that is registered in a government office , that people can pledge as collateral .	讓我們建立一個制度 , 讓土地在政府部門登記的土地 , 讓人們可以承諾作為抵押品 。
if we can keep innovating on our space of rules , and particularly innovate in the sense of coming up with rules for changing rules , so we don't get stuck with bad rules , then we can keep moving progress forward and truly make the world a better place , so that people like nelson and his friends don't have to study any longer under the streetlights . thank you .	如果我們可以在規則的空間上創新 , 特別是在創新體制中想出改變規則的概念 , 所以我們不會被壞規則卡住 , 那麼我們可以繼續進步 , 真正地讓世界變得更美好 , 讓尼爾森和他的朋友在街燈下不再學習 。 謝謝 。
genomics pioneer craig venter takes a break from his epic roundtheworld expedition to talk about the millions of genes his team has discovered so far in its quest to map the ocean’s biodiversity .	克雷格•凡特 , 基因組學先驅休息了一下他的史詩般的圓環探險 , 來談談他的團隊目前發現的數百萬個基因 , 來繪製出海洋生物多樣性的地圖 。
dna , biosphere , biotech , entrepreneur , genetics , invention , oceans , science , technology	dna、生物圈、生物科技、企業家、遺傳學、發明、海洋、科學、科技、科技等 。
craig venter on dna and the sea	dna和大海上的craigventer和craigventer 。
at the break , i was asked by several people about my comments about the aging debate .	等一下 , 幾個人問我對於老化辯論的看法 。
and this will be my only comment on it .	這將會是我唯一的評論 。
and that is , i understand that optimists greatly outlive pessimists .	那就是 , 我了解樂觀的人比悲觀者要活得更久 。
what i'm going to tell you about in my 18 minutes is how we're about to switch from reading the genetic code to the first stages of beginning to write the code ourselves .	我在18分鐘內要告訴你們的是我們如何從閱讀基因編碼轉換到開始編寫程式的第一階段
it's only 10 years ago this month when we published the first sequence of a freeliving organism , that of haemophilus influenzae .	僅僅十年前 , 這個月 , 我們出版了第一組免費生存有機體的序列 , 即嗜血桿菌 。
that took a genome project from 13 years down to four months .	這需要一個從13年到4個月的基因組計劃 。
we can now do that same genome project in the order of two to eight hours .	我們現在可以在兩到八個小時內完成同樣的基因組計畫 。
so in the last decade , a large number of genomes have been added: most human pathogens , a couple of plants , several insects and several mammals , including the human genome .	所以在過去的十年裡 , 大量的基因組被加入了:大部份的病原體、幾株植物、幾隻昆蟲和幾種哺乳動物 , 包括人類的基因組 。
genomics at this stage of the thinking from a little over 10 years ago was , by the end of this year , we might have between three and five genomes sequenced ; it's on the order of several hundred .	想法在十年前的這個階段的基因組學是 , 今年底 , 我們可能有三到五個基因組學的基因組學定序 , 大約是幾百個 。
we just got a grant from the gordon and betty moore foundation to sequence 130 genomes this year , as a side project from environmental organisms .	我們剛從戈登和貝蒂•摩爾基金會取得了一筆資金 , 今年已經完成了130項基因定序 , 做為環保有機體的一邊專案 。
so the rate of reading the genetic code has changed .	所以閱讀基因編碼的速度已經改變了 。
but as we look , what's out there , we've barely scratched the surface on what is available on this planet .	但 , 仔細看 , 外面有什麼 , 我們幾乎沒有抓到這個星球上的表面 。
most people don't realize it , because they're invisible , but microbes make up about a half of the earth's biomass , whereas all animals only make up about one onethousandth of all the biomass .	大部分的人沒有意識到它 , 因為它們是看不見的 , 但微生物佔了地球生物總量的一半 , 而所有的動物只佔了所有生物總量的1/1 。
and maybe it's something that people in oxford don't do very often , but if you ever make it to the sea , and you swallow a mouthful of seawater , keep in mind that each milliliter has about a million bacteria and on the order of 10 million viruses .	也許是牛津人不常做的事 , 但如果你去海邊 , 吞了一口海水 , 請記住每一毫升的海水中有大約一百萬個細菌 , 以一千萬個病毒的數量持續到一千萬個 。
less than 5 , 000 microbial species have been characterized as of two years ago , and so we decided to do something about it .	不到5000種微生物種類在兩年前就已經有了特徵 , 所以我們決定採取行動 。
and we started the sorcerer ii expedition , where we were , as with great oceanographic expeditions , trying to sample the ocean every 200 miles .	我們開始了索克爾二號探險 , 在那裡 , 我們在那裡 , 進行了偉大的海洋探險 , 試圖在200英里內捕捉海洋樣本 。
we started in bermuda for our test project , then moved up to halifax , working down the u . s . east coast , the caribbean sea , the panama canal , through to the galapagos , then across the pacific , and we're in the process now of working our way across the indian ocean .	我們從百慕達開始做我們的測試計畫 , 接著搬到霍利法斯 , 沿著美國東岸 , 加勒比海 , 巴拿馬運河 , 穿過加拉巴哥群島 , 橫越太平洋 , 我們現在正在橫越印度洋的這一步 。
it's very tough duty ; we're doing this on a sailing vessel , in part to help excite young people about going into science .	這是非常艱難的任務 , 我們在帆船上做這件事 , 一方面幫助激勵年輕人進入科學領域 。
the experiments are incredibly simple .	實驗非常簡單 。
we just take seawater and we filter it , and we collect different size organisms on different filters , and then take their dna back to our lab in rockville , where we can sequence a hundred million letters of the genetic code every 24 hours .	我們只用海水過濾 , 用不同的濾鏡收集不同大小的生物 , 然後把它們的dna帶回我們在洛克維爾的實驗室 , 每24小時可以對基因編碼進行一億億個字母排序 。
and with doing this , we've made some amazing discoveries .	通過這樣做 , 我們得到了一些驚人的發現 。
for example , it was thought that the visual pigments that are in our eyes there was only one or two organisms in the environment that had these same pigments .	例如 , 有人認為我們眼中的視覺色素 , 只有一兩種有機體存在於這樣的環境中 , 有著相同的色素 。
it turns out , almost every species in the upper parts of the ocean in warm parts of the world have these same photoreceptors , and use sunlight as the source of their energy and communication .	結果發現 , 幾乎所有在上層海洋中在溫暖的地區的生物都有相同的光感應器 , 用太陽光來源 , 用它們的能量和溝通 。
from one site , from one barrel of seawater , we discovered 1 . 3 million new genes and as many as 50 , 000 new species .	從一個地方 , 從一桶海水中 , 我們發現了130萬個新基因 , 和多達5萬種新物種 。
we've extended this to the air now with a grant from the sloan foundation .	我們現在已經把它延伸到空氣中 , 用的是sloan基金會的補助金 。
we're measuring how many viruses and bacteria all of us are breathing in and out every day , particularly on airplanes or closed auditoriums .	我們測量有多少病毒和細菌 , 每天都在呼吸 , 特別是在飛機上或封閉的演講廳 。
we filter through some simple apparatuses ; we collect on the order of a billion microbes from just a day filtering on top of a building in new york city .	我們透過一些簡單的儀器過濾過濾 ; 我們從每天在紐約市的一棟建築上 , 收集十億微生物的數量 。
and we're in the process of sequencing all that at the present time .	我們正處於目前的定序的過程中 。
just on the data collection side , just where we are through the galapagos , we're finding that almost every 200 miles , we see tremendous diversity in the samples in the ocean .	就資料收集方面來說 , 我們穿越加拉巴哥群島的地方 , 我們發現幾乎每兩百英里 , 海裡的樣本就有驚人的多樣性 。
some of these make logical sense , in terms of different temperature gradients .	有些在邏輯上是合乎邏輯的 , 就不同溫度的梯度來看 。
so this is a satellite photograph based on temperatures red being warm , blue being cold and we found there's a tremendous difference between the warm water samples and the cold water samples , in terms of abundant species .	這是一張以溫度為基礎的衛星照片 , 紅色是溫暖的 , 藍色則是冷的 , 我們發現溫暖的水樣本和冰冷的水樣本有很大的不同 。
the other thing that surprised us quite a bit is these photoreceptors detect different wavelengths of light , and we can predict that based on their amino acid sequence .	另一件令人驚訝的事情是這些光感應器偵測不同波長的光 , 我們可以根據它們的氨基酸序列預測這些波長 。
and these vary tremendously from region to region .	這些變化從地區到地區的變化極大 。
maybe not surprisingly , in the deep ocean , where it's mostly blue , the photoreceptors tend to see blue light .	或許不意外 , 在深海中 , 大部分是藍色的 , 感光受體往往會看到藍光 。
when there's a lot of chlorophyll around , they see a lot of green light .	當周圍有大量的葉綠素時 , 它們看到很多綠光 。
but they vary even more , possibly moving towards infrared and ultraviolet in the extremes .	但它們變化更大 , 可能更趨向紅外線和紫外線 。
just to try and get an assessment of what our gene repertoire was , we assembled all the data including all of ours thus far from the expedition , which represents more than half of all the gene data on the planet and it totaled around 29 million genes .	為了評估我們的基因如何進行自我複製 , 我們把所有的資料組合起來 , 包括我們目前在探險中所有的資料 , 佔據了地球上所有基因資料的一半以上 , 包含了大約兩億九千萬個基因 。
and we tried to put these into gene families to see what these discoveries are: are we just discovering new members of known families , or are we discovering new families ?	我們試著把這些基因放入基因族群中 , 看看這些發現是什麼:我們發現了已知族群的新成員 , 還是我們發現了新的族群 ?
and it turns out we have about 50 , 000 major gene families , but every new sample we take in the environment adds in a linear fashion to these new families .	結果發現 , 我們有大約五萬個主要的基因族群 , 但是我們在環境中所採取的每一個新樣本 , 都會在這些新族群中增加一個線性的族群 。
so we're at the earliest stages of discovery about basic genes , components and life on this planet .	我們正處於基礎基因的初期階段 , 在這個星球上組成和生命的階段 。
when we look at the socalled evolutionary tree , we're up on the upper righthand corner with the animals .	當我們觀察所謂的進化樹 , 我們在右上角和動物相處 。
of those roughly 29 million genes , we only have around 24 , 000 in our genome .	大約有2億9千萬個基因 , 我們的基因組只有24 , 000個 。
and if you take all animals together , we probably share less than 30 , 000 and probably maybe a dozen or more thousand different gene families .	如果你把所有動物的基因組合在一起 , 我們可能只有三萬個左右 , 也許只有十幾萬個基因族群 。
i view that these genes are now not only the design components of evolution .	我認爲這些基因現在不僅是進化的設計元素 。
and we think in a genecentric view maybe going back to richard dawkins' ideas than in a genomecentric view , which are different constructs of these gene components .	以基因為中心的觀點 , 或許可以回溯到理查•道金斯的觀點 , 而不是以基因為中心的觀點 , 這種觀點不同於這些基因組成的成分 。
synthetic dna , the ability to synthesize dna , has changed at sort of the same pace that dna sequencing has over the last decade or two , and is getting very rapid and very cheap .	合成dna的能力 , 合成dna的能力 , 在過去的十到二十年間 , 已經有了和dna定序的速度一樣的改變 , 而且變得非常非常便宜 。
our first thought about synthetic genomics came when we sequenced the second genome back in 1995 , and that from mycoplasma genitalium .	我們首先想到合成基因組學 , 當時我們在1995年完成了第二個基因組定序 , 這是從麥可柏斯的生殖器得到的 。
and we have really nice tshirts that say , you know , " i heart my genitalium . "	我們穿著非常好的t恤 , 上面寫著: 「 我愛我的生殖器 。 」
this is actually just a microorganism .	這其實只是一種微生物 。
but it has roughly 500 genes .	但它大約有500個基因 。
haemophilus had 1 , 800 genes .	嗜血桿菌有1800個基因 。
and we simply asked the question , if one species needs 800 , another 500 , is there a smaller set of genes that might comprise a minimal operating system ?	我們只問一個問題 , 如果一個物種需要800 , 再加上500 , 是否有一小組基因組成最小的操作系統 ?
so we started doing transposon mutagenesis .	於是我們開始進行轉錄病毒療法 。
transposons are just small pieces of dna that randomly insert in the genetic code .	轉位子只是一小部分的dna , 隨機插入基因密碼中 。
and if they insert in the middle of the gene , they disrupt its function .	如果它們插入到基因中間 , 就會阻斷它的功能 。
so we made a map of all the genes that could take transposon insertions and we called those " nonessential genes . "	所以 , 我們做了一張地圖 , 說明了所有能夠接受轉位子插入的基因 , 我們稱之為 「 非必要的基因 」 。
but it turns out the environment is very critical for this , and you can only define an essential or nonessential gene based on exactly what's in the environment .	但事實證明環境是至關重要的 , 你只能依據環境的特徵來定義一個必要或不必要的基因 。
we also tried to take a more directly intellectual approach with the genomes of 13 related organisms , and we tried to compare all of those , to see what they had in common .	我們也試著用更直接的智慧方法和13種相關有機物的基因組做比較 , 我們試著比較所有這些基因 , 看看它們有什麼共通點 。
and we got these overlapping circles . and we found only 173 genes common to all 13 organisms .	我們找到了這些重疊的圓圈 。 我們發現 , 只有173個基因是共有13個有機體 。
the pool expanded a little bit if we ignored one intracellular parasite ; it expanded even more when we looked at core sets of genes of around 310 or so .	如果我們忽略了一種細胞寄生蟲 , 稍微擴大一點點 , 如果我們去看核心基因組 , 大約310個左右 。
so we think that we can expand or contract genomes , depending on your point of view here , to maybe 300 to 400 genes from the minimal of 500 .	我們認為我們可以擴展或收縮基因組 , 依據你的觀點 , 到達約300到400個基因 , 從500個最小基因到最小 。
the only way to prove these ideas was to construct an artificial chromosome with those genes in them , and we had to do this in a cassettebased fashion .	要證明這些想法的唯一方法 , 就是建立一個人工染色體 , 裡面有這些基因 , 我們必須在以分類為基礎的時尚中做這件事 。
we found that synthesizing accurate dna in large pieces was extremely difficult .	我們發現 , 合成精確的大片dna是非常困難的 。
ham smith and clyde hutchison , my colleagues on this , developed an exciting new method that allowed us to synthesize a 5 , 000base pair virus in only a twoweek period that was 100 percent accurate , in terms of its sequence and its biology .	史密斯和clydehutchison , 我的同事開發了一種令人振奮的新方法 , 讓我們在兩週的時間內合成一個5000個鹼基對的病毒 , 精確到100% , 以其序列和生物學的角度來說 。
it was a quite exciting experiment when we just took the synthetic piece of dna , injected it in the bacteria and all of a sudden , that dna started driving the production of the virus particles that turned around and then killed the bacteria .	這是個很令人振奮的實驗當我們把合成的dna注入細菌中 , 突然間 , dna開始製造病毒粒子反過來然後殺死細菌 。
this was not the first synthetic virus a polio virus had been made a year before but it was only one tenthousandth as active and it took three years to do .	這並不是最早的合成病毒--一個小兒麻痺病毒--在一年前就被製造出來了 , 但它只是一個十分之一的活性病毒 , 花了三年的時間才完成 。
this is a cartoon of the structure of phi x 174 .	這是phix-174的結構的漫畫 。
this is a case where the software now builds its own hardware , and that's the notions that we have with biology .	這是一個軟體現在打造自己的硬體的例子 , 這就是我們對生物學的看法 。
people immediately jump to concerns about biological warfare , and i had recent testimony before a senate committee , and a special committee the u . s . government has set up to review this area .	人們馬上就開始關心生物戰的議題 , 而我最近在參議院委員會前發表了證詞 , 也是美國政府設立的專門委員會來檢視這個區域 。
and i think it's important to keep reality in mind , versus what happens with people's imaginations .	我認為 , 把現實留在心中 , 是很重要的 , 對人的想像力會有什麼影響 。
basically , any virus that's been sequenced today that genome can be made .	基本上 , 現今任何已經被定序過的病毒 , 都有可能被製造出來 。
and people immediately freak out about things about ebola or smallpox , but the dna from this organism is not infective .	人們會立刻對伊波拉病毒或天花感到驚恐 , 但這個有機生物的dna沒有傳染性 。
so even if somebody made the smallpox genome , that dna itself would not cause infections .	所以即使有人做了天花的基因組 , dna本身也不會造成感染 。
the real concern that security departments have is designer viruses .	真正令人擔憂的是安全部門有設計師的病毒 。
and there's only two countries , the u . s . and the former soviet union , that had major efforts on trying to create biological warfare agents .	只有兩個國家 , 美國和前蘇聯 , 才有重大的努力 , 試圖創造生物戰火的代理 。
if that research is truly discontinued , there should be very little activity on the knowhow to make designer viruses in the future .	如果那項研究真的停滯不前 , 將來 , 對於製造設計師病毒的知識 , 應該沒有任何活動 。
i think singlecell organisms are possible within two years .	我認為在兩年內 , 單細胞生物是可能的 。
and possibly eukaryotic cells , those that we have , are possible within a decade .	那些我們擁有的 , 可能在十年內就有可能做到的 。
so we're now making several dozen different constructs , because we can vary the cassettes and the genes that go into this artificial chromosome .	所以現在我們正在做數十種不同的建構 , 因為我們可以改變人造染色體的種類和基因 。
the key is , how do you put all of the others ?	關鍵在於 , 如何把其他的全部都放進去 ?
we start with these fragments , and then we have a homologous recombination system that reassembles those into a chromosome .	我們從這些片段開始 , 然後有一個同源重組的重組系統 , 可以將這些片段重新組合到染色體中 。
this is derived from an organism , deinococcus radiodurans , that can take three million rads of radiation and not be killed .	這源自於一種有機體、耐輻射奇異球菌 , 足足有三百萬個輻射 , 沒有被殺 。
it reassembles its genome after this radiation burst in about 12 to 24 hours , after its chromosomes are literally blown apart .	在這個放射線爆炸之後 , 它會在12到24小時內重新組合它的基因組 , 在它的染色體被完全爆炸之後 。
this organism is ubiquitous on the planet , and exists perhaps now in outer space due to all our travel there .	這個有機體在地球上無所不在 , 可能因為我們在外太空旅行而存在 。
this is a glass beaker after about half a million rads of radiation .	這是半個玻璃杯 , 經過約五十萬拉德輻射 。
the glass started to burn and crack , while the microbes sitting in the bottom just got happier and happier .	玻璃開始裂裂開 , 微生物坐在底部 , 變得更快樂、更快樂 。
here's an actual picture of what happens: the top of this shows the genome after 1 . 7 million rads of radiation .	這裡有一張實際的照片上面的圖片顯示了一百七十萬拉德輻射後的基因組 。
the chromosome is literally blown apart .	染色體完全被炸掉了 。
and here's that same dna automatically reassembled 24 hours later .	同樣的dna在24小時後自動重新組合起來 。
it's truly stunning that these organisms can do that , and we probably have thousands , if not tens of thousands , of different species on this planet that are capable of doing that .	令人驚訝的是 , 這些生物能夠做到這一點 , 我們可能有成千上萬 , 在地球上有能力做到這一點的物種 。
after these genomes are synthesized , the first step is just transplanting them into a cell without a genome .	在這些基因組被合成之後 , 第一步就是將它們移植到沒有基因組的細胞中 。
so we think synthetic cells are going to have tremendous potential , not only for understanding the basis of biology but for hopefully environmental and society issues .	所以 , 我們認為合成細胞將會有巨大的潛力 , 不僅僅是為了理解生物學的基礎 , 更希望是環境和社會問題 。
for example , from the third organism we sequenced , methanococcus jannaschii it lives in boiling water temperatures ; its energy source is hydrogen and all its carbon comes from co2 it captures back from the environment .	例如 , 從我們做過的第三個有機體中 , janacuschii的甲烷酸鹽水中生存的甲烷酸鹽水溫 ; 它的能量來源是氫氣 , 它所吸收的二氧化碳來自於環境中的二氧化碳 。
so we know lots of different pathways , thousands of different organisms now that live off of co2 , and can capture that back .	我們知道許多不同的路徑 , 成千上萬種不同的生物 , 活在二氧化碳上 , 還能捕捉到它 。
so instead of using carbon from oil for synthetic processes , we have the chance of using carbon and capturing it back from the atmosphere , converting that into biopolymers or other products .	所以 , 與其從石油中取得碳來進行合成過程 , 我們有機會利用碳來捕捉它 , 將它從大氣中捕捉回來 , 將它轉換成生物聚合物或其他產品 。
we have one organism that lives off of carbon monoxide , and we use as a reducing power to split water to produce hydrogen and oxygen .	我們有一種生物 , 住在一氧化碳中 , 我們把水分解成低能量來產生氫氣和氧氣 。
also , there's numerous pathways that can be engineered metabolizing methane .	此外 , 還有許多路徑 , 可以改造甲烷的新陳代謝 。
and dupont has a major program with statoil in norway to capture and convert the methane from the gas fields there into useful products .	杜邦特有個重大的計畫 , 用挪威的油來捕捉和轉換從瓦斯場轉變成有用的產品 。
within a short while , i think there's going to be a new field called " combinatorial genomics , " because with these new synthesis capabilities , these vast gene array repertoires and the homologous recombination , we think we can design a robot to make maybe a million different chromosomes a day .	短時間內 , 我認為將來會有一個新的領域 , 叫做 「 組合基因組學 」 , 因為有這些新的合成能力 , 這些廣大的基因複製和同源重組 , 我們認為我們可以設計一個機器人 , 每天可以製造一百萬種不同的染色體 。
and therefore , as with all biology , you get selection through screening , whether you're screening for hydrogen production , or chemical production , or just viability .	因此 , 正如所有生物學一樣 , 通過篩選 , 不論你在篩選氫化、化學生產 , 或純粹可行 。
to understand the role of these genes is going to be well within reach .	若要了解這些基因的角色 , 將在可觸及的範圍內扮演好處 。
we're trying to modify photosynthesis to produce hydrogen directly from sunlight .	我們試著修改光合作用從陽光直接產生氫氣 。
photosynthesis is modulated by oxygen , and we have an oxygeninsensitive hydrogenase that we think will totally change this process .	光合作用是由氧氣來調節的 , 我們認為有一種氧氣敏感的氫氣會完全改變這個過程 。
we're also combining cellulases , the enzymes that break down complex sugars into simple sugars and fermentation in the same cell for producing ethanol .	我們也結合了纖維素 , 將複雜糖分解成單醣和發酵的酵素在同一個細胞中 , 用來生產乙醇 。
pharmaceutical production is already under way in major laboratories using microbes .	使用微生物的製藥生產已經在主要實驗室裡進行了 。
the chemistry from compounds in the environment is orders of magnitude more complex than our best chemists can produce .	環境中的化合物的化學成分 , 比我們最好的化學家所能生產的還要複雜許多 。
i think future engineered species could be the source of food , hopefully a source of energy , environmental remediation and perhaps replacing the petrochemical industry .	我認為未來的工程物種可以是食物的來源 , 希望是能源、環境修復的來源 , 也許可以取代石化工業 。
let me just close with ethical and policy studies .	讓我用道德和政策的研究來結束今天的演講
we delayed the start of our experiments in 1999 until we completed a yearandahalf bioethical review as to whether we should try and make an artificial species .	在1999年我們延遲了實驗的開始直到我們完成了一年半的生物倫理審查我們是否應該試著製造一個人工物種
every major religion participated in this .	每一個主要的宗教都參與其中 。
it was actually a very strange study , because the various religious leaders were using their scriptures as law books , and they couldn't find anything in them prohibiting making life , so it must be ok . the only ultimate concerns were biological warfare aspects of this , but gave us the go ahead to start these experiments for the reasons we were doing them .	這真的是一項很奇怪的研究 , 因為各種宗教領袖都在用他們的教義作為法律 , 他們無法在禁止製造生命的條件下找到任何教材 , 所以一定是沒事的 。 唯一會讓人擔憂的 , 是生物戰的方面 , 但給了我們預先做這些實驗的理由 。
right now the sloan foundation has just funded a multiinstitutional study on this , to work out what the risk and benefits to society are , and the rules that scientific teams such as my own should be using in this area , and we're trying to set good examples as we go forward .	現在sloan基金會已經在這個項目上提供了一份多機構的研究 , 來研究對社會有哪些風險和益處 , 以及像我自己的科學團隊所做的科學研究 , 在這個領域中 , 我們正試著建立好的例子 。
these are complex issues .	這些都是複雜的問題 。
except for the threat of bioterrorism , they're very simple issues in terms of , can we design things to produce clean energy , perhaps revolutionizing what developing countries can do and provide through various simple processes .	除了生物恐怖主義的威脅之外 , 它們是非常簡單的議題 , 我們可以設計東西來產生潔淨能源 , 也許革命開發中國家可以做些什麼 , 並提供各種簡單的處理方式 。
psychologist philip zimbardo says happiness and success are rooted in a trait most of us disregard: the way we orient toward the past , present and future . he suggests we calibrate our outlook on time as a first step to improving our lives .	心理學家菲利普辛巴多說 , 快樂和成功深根在我們大部份人不認同的特質上:我們朝向過去、現在和未來邁進的方式 。 他建議我們調整時間的方向 , 作為改善我們的生活的第一步 。
brain , business , happiness , mind , psychology , science	大腦、商業、快樂、心智、心理、心理學、科學 。
philip zimbardo prescribes a healthy take on time	菲利普辛巴多開了個健康的開場 , 時間很長 。
i want to share with you some ideas about the secret power of time , in a very short time .	我想和各位分享一些關於時間的秘密的概念 , 很短的時間內 。
video: all right , start the clock please . 30 seconds studio .	影片:好 , 開始計時 。 三十秒後 , 工作室 。
keep it quiet please . settle down .	請保持安靜 , 安定下來 。
it's about time . end sequence . take one .	時間到了 , 結束序列 , 開始 。
10 , nine , eight , seven , six , five , four , three , two . . .	10 , 9 , 8 , 7 , 6 , 5 , 4 , 3 , 2...
philip zimbardo: let's tune into the conversation of the principals in adam's temptation .	菲利普辛巴多:咱們調一下亞當的誘惑對談 。
" come on adam , don't be so wishywashy . take a bite . " " i did . "	「 來吧 , 亞當 , 不要這麼想 , 去咬一口 。 」 「 我有 。 」
" one bite , adam . don't abandon eve . "	「 一口 , 亞當 , 不要放棄夏娃 。 」
" i don't know , guys .	「 我不知道 , 各位 。
i don't want to get in trouble . "	我不想惹上麻煩 。 」
" okay . one bite . what the hell ? "	「 好 , 一口 。 搞什麼鬼 ? 」
life is temptation . it's all about yielding , resisting , yes , no , now , later , impulsive , reflective , present focus and future focus .	人生充滿誘惑 。 重點在於培養、抗拒 , 沒錯 , 沒錯 , 過後 , 衝動、反思、現在的焦點 , 和未來的焦點 。
promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment .	承諾的美德會勝出當下的熱情 。
of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage thank you george bush the majority , 60 percent , yielded to sexual temptations within one year .	十幾歲的女孩 , 她們承諾要在性愛上的異性戀和貞操 , 直到婚姻──謝謝你布希──大多數 , 百分之六十 , 一年內都受到性誘惑 。
and most of them did so without using birth control .	大部分的人都沒有使用節育控制權 。
so much for promises .	對承諾有好多好處 。
now lets tempt fouryearolds , giving them a treat .	現在我們來試試四歲小孩 , 給他們一份協定 。
they can have one marshmallow now . but if they wait until the experimenter comes back , they can have two .	他們現在有一顆棉花糖了 , 但如果他們等到實驗員回來 , 他們就會有兩顆 。
of course it pays , if you like marshmallows , to wait .	當然 , 如果你喜歡棉花糖 , 它的價格會被用來等待 。
what happens is twothirds of the kids give in to temptation .	三分之二的孩子誘惑會發生的事 。
they cannot wait . the others , of course , wait .	他們不能等 , 其他人 , 當然 , 等等 。
they resist the temptation . they delay the now for later .	牠們會抗拒誘惑 , 牠們會延遲誘惑
walter mischel , my colleague at stanford , went back 14 years later , to try to discover what was different about those kids .	沃爾特•米歇爾 , 我在史丹佛大學的同事 , 14年後回到史丹佛 , 試圖找出這些孩子有什麼不同 。
there were enormous differences between kids who resisted and kids who yielded , in many ways .	反抗的孩子與反抗的孩子在很多方面都有很大的差異 。
the kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the sat .	那些反抗的孩子在sat成績上有高達250分 。
that's enormous . that's like a whole set of different iq points .	這是很大的 。 這就像一整套不同的智商點 。
they didn't get in as much trouble . they were better students .	他們沒有得到那麼多麻煩 , 他們是好學生 。
they were selfconfident and determined . and the key for me today , the key for you , is , they were futurefocused rather than presentfocused .	他們很自信且堅定 。 而今天對我來說 , 對你來說 , 關鍵在於 , 他們是未來的焦點 , 而非現在的焦點 。
so what is time perspective ? that's what i'm going to talk about today .	所以 , 什麼是時間觀點 ? 這就是我今天要談的 。
time perspective is the study of how individuals , all of us , divide the flow of your human experience into time zones or time categories .	看待時間是研究個體 , 我們所有人 , 將你人類在時間區或時間分類的經驗分類 。
and you do it automatically and nonconsciously .	並且在自動和無意識的情況下進行 。
they vary between cultures , between nations , between individuals , between social classes , between education levels .	它們在文化、國家、個人、社會階級、教育水平之間有所不同 。
and the problem is that they can become biased , because you learn to overuse some of them and underuse the others .	問題是他們會變得有偏見 , 因為你學會了過度使用 , 忽略其他的 。
what determines any decision you make ?	你做了什麼決定 ?
you make a decision on which you're going to base an action .	你要做一個決定 , 決定你要採取行動 。
for some people it's only about what is in the immediate situation , what other people are doing and what you're feeling .	對某些人來說 , 只關注當下的情況 , 其他人在做什麼 , 和你的感受 。
and those people , when they make their decisions in that format we're going to call them " presentoriented , " because their focus is what is now .	而這些人 , 當他們以那種形式做決定時 , 我們會稱他們為 「 現實主義 」 , 因為他們現在的重點就是現在 。
for others , the present is irrelevant .	對其他人來說 , 現在並不重要 。
it's always about " what is this situation like that i've experienced in the past ? "	總是說: 「 我過去經歷過的這種情況是什麼 ? 」
so that their decisions are based on past memories .	所以他們的決策是建立在過去的記憶之上 。
and we're going to call those people " pastoriented , " because they focus on what was .	我們稱這些人為 " 懷舊主義 " , 因為他們專注於所謂的 " 。
for others it's not the past , it's not the present , it's only about the future .	對其他人來說 , 這不是過去 , 也不是現在 , 而是關於未來 。
their focus is always about anticipated consequences .	他們的注意力總是在於預測後果 。
we're going to call them " futureoriented . " their focus is on what will be .	我們稱他們為 " 理想主義 " 。 他們關注的是未來 。
so , time paradox , i want to argue , the paradox of time perspective , is something that influences every decision you make , you're totally unaware of .	所以 , 時間悖論 , 我想要說的是 , 時間觀點的悖論 , 會影響你所做的每一個決定 , 你完全沒有意識到 。
namely , the extent to which you have one of these biased time perspectives .	換句話說 , 你有一種偏頗的時光觀點 。
well there is actually six of them . there are two ways to be presentoriented .	其實 , 總共有六種 。 有兩種方式可以當作既有的 。
there is two ways to be pastoriented , two ways to be future .	有兩種方式被貼上 , 有兩種方式可以成為未來 。
you can focus on pastpositive , or pastnegative .	你可以把焦點放在正面 , 或者說是負面的 。
you can be presenthedonistic , namely you focus on the joys of life , or presentfatalist it doesn't matter , your life is controlled .	可以是 " 享受主義者 " , 也就是說你專注於享受生活的樂趣 , 或者說 " 宿命論者 " --這不重要 , 你的生命受到控制 。
you can be futureoriented , setting goals .	你可以是理想的 , 設定目標 。
or you can be transcendental future: namely , life begins after death .	或者 , 你也可以是超然的未來:即 , 生命從死後開始 。
developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidly depending on the demands of the situation , that's what you've got to learn to do .	發展思維的靈活性 , 來轉換視角度 , 取決於情境的需求 , 這是你必須學習的 。
so , very quickly , what is the optimal time profile ?	很快地 , 最佳時光檔案是什麼 ?
high on pastpositive . moderately high on future .	過往正面的高度 , 過度高的未來 。
and moderate on presenthedonism .	以現代主義來進行調節 。
and always low on pastnegative and presentfatalism .	總是低於過去的負面和現代主義 。
so the optimal temporal mix is what you get from the past pastpositive gives you roots . you connect your family , identity and your self .	所以 , 最佳的節奏混合是從過去得到的 , 讓你的家人、身份、自我連結在一起 。
what you get from the future is wings to soar to new destinations , new challenges .	從未來 , 你從翅膀到翱翔到新的目的地 , 新的挑戰 。
what you get from the present hedonism is the energy , the energy to explore yourself , places , people , sensuality .	從現在的享樂主義得到的能量 , 是探索自己、地方、人、感性的能量 。
any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives .	在過度觀點的任何時間觀點 , 都比正面觀點更加負面 。
what do futures sacrifice for success ?	未來要犧牲什麼才能成功 ?
they sacrifice family time . they sacrifice friend time .	他們犧牲了家庭時間 , 犧牲了朋友的時間 。
they sacrifice fun time . they sacrifice personal indulgence .	他們犧牲了有趣的時光 , 犧牲了個人的沉默
they sacrifice hobbies . and they sacrifice sleep . so it affects their health .	他們犧牲了嗜好 , 他們犧牲了睡眠 。 這會影響他們的健康 。
and they live for work , achievement and control .	他們為工作、成就和控制而生 。
i'm sure that resonates with some of the tedsters .	我相信這會和一些ted成員產生共鳴 。
and it resonated for me . i grew up as a poor kid in the south bronx ghetto , a sicilian family everyone lived in the past and present .	這對我產生共鳴 。 我在南布朗克斯的貧窮家庭長大 , 一個西西里亞家庭 , 過去和現在都住在 。
i'm here as a futureoriented person who went over the top , who did all these sacrifices because teachers intervened , and made me future oriented .	我來到這裡是一個將來由未來引導的人 , 走上頂端的人 , 他們犧牲了這些犧牲 , 因為老師們介入了 , 讓我成為未來的方向 。
told me don't eat that marshmallow , because if you wait you're going to get two of them , until i learned to balance out .	告訴我不要吃那顆棉花糖 , 因為如果你在等待你拿到兩顆球 , 直到我學會平衡 。
i've added presenthedonism , i've added a focus on the pastpositive , so , at 76 years old , i am more energetic than ever , more productive , and i'm happier than i have ever been .	我加入了現代主義 , 我也加入了過去式正面態度的關注 , 所以 , 在76歲時 , 我比以往更有活力 , 更有生產力 , 我比以往更快樂 。
i just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems: changing the dropout rates of school kids , combating addictions , enhancing teen health , curing vets' ptsd with time metaphors getting miracle cures promoting sustainability and conservation , reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50percent drop out rate , altering appeals to suicidal terrorists , and modifying family conflicts as timezone clashes .	我只想說 , 我們把這個方法應用在許多世界問題上:改變輟學比率、對毒品成癮、增強青少年健康、對付退伍軍人的創傷──用時間隱喻來治療退伍軍人的創傷──促進永續性和保育 , 降低身體康復率 , 降低50%的輟學率 , 改變自殺式恐怖份子、改變家人的觀念 , 來達到衝突的目的地 。
so i want to end by saying: many of life's puzzles can be solved by understanding your time perspective and that of others .	所以 , 最後我想說的是:許多生命的謎題都能被解決 , 透過了解你的時間觀點和他人的觀點來解決 。
and the idea is so simple , so obvious , but i think the consequences are really profound .	想法很簡單 , 很明顯 , 但我認為後果是很深刻的 。
how many of today's headlines will matter in 100 years ? 1000 ? kirk citron's " long news " project collects stories that not only matter today , but will resonate for decades even centuries to come . at ted2010 , he highlights recent headlines with the potential to shape our future .	今天的新聞標題有多少人在一百年後才有意義 ? 一百年後 ? 有多少人 ? 克雷克•凱森的《長新聞》專案計畫現在不但很重要 , 還會有數十年的共共鳴 。 在2010年 , 他強調了近期的新聞標題 , 有可能會影響到我們未來 。
future , global issues , media , news , science	未來、全球議題、媒體、新聞、科學 。
kirk citron: and now , the real news	kirkkcitron:現在 , 真正的新聞 。
we are drowning in news .	我們淹沒在新聞裡 。
reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year .	光是路透社 , 每年就有三百五十萬則新聞報導出來 。
that's just one source .	這只是一個源頭 。
my question is: how many of those stories are actually going to matter in the long run ?	我的問題是:這些故事中有多少在長期來說是重要的 ?
that's the idea behind the long news .	這就是 「 長期新聞 」 的概念 。
it's a project by the long now foundation , which was founded by tedsters including kevin kelly and stewart brand .	這是個由現在已久的基金會所完成的專案 , 由tedsters所創立 , 包括kevinkelly和stewartbrand 。
and what we're looking for is news stories that might still matter 50 or 100 or 10 , 000 years from now .	我們在尋找的新聞報導 , 可能還牽涉到五十或十萬年前或一萬年之後 。
and when you look at the news through that filter , a lot falls by the wayside .	當你透過篩選器看新聞時 , 很多的消息會落在一邊 。
to take the top stories from the a . p . this last year , is this going to matter in a decade ?	拿去年a.p的頭條新聞來說這在十年內是很重要的嗎 ?
is this going to matter in 50 or 100 years ?	這在50或100年後是很重要的嗎 ?
okay , that was kind of cool .	好吧 , 那很酷 。
but the top story of this past year was the economy , and i'm just betting that , sooner or later , this particular recession is going to be old news .	但去年的頭條是經濟 , 我敢打賭 , 遲早 , 這次的經濟衰退將會是老舊的新聞 。
so , what kind of stories might make a difference for the future ?	所以 , 哪種故事能為未來帶來改變 ?
well , let's take science .	嗯 , 咱們來談談科學 。
someday , little robots will go through our bloodstreams fixing things .	有一天 , 小機器人會穿過我們的血流 , 去修復東西 。
that someday is already here if you're a mouse .	如果你是一隻老鼠 , 就已經有一天了 。
some recent stories: nanobees zap tumors with real bee venom ; they're sending genes into the brain ; a robot they built that can crawl through the human body .	最近有些故事:奈米蜜蜂用真蜜蜂的毒液吸引腫瘤 ; 它們會把基因送到大腦 ; 一個可以在人體上爬行的機器人 。
what about resources ? how are we going to feed nine billion people ?	資源呢 ? 我們要如何養活90億人 ?
we're having trouble feeding six billion today .	今日 , 我們面臨60億人的困境 。
as we heard yesterday , there's over a billion people hungry .	正如我們昨天聽到的 , 有超過十億人處於飢餓狀態 。
britain will starve without genetically modified crops .	英國在沒有基因改造作物的情況下也會餓死 。
bill gates , fortunately , has bet a billion on [agricultural] research .	很幸運地 , 比爾蓋茲已經投入了十億在農業研究上 。
what about global politics ?	那麼全球政治呢 ?
the world's going to be very different when and if china sets the agenda , and they may .	世界會變得截然不同 , 如果中國設立了議程 , 且可能會發生 。
they've overtaken the u . s . as the world's biggest car market , they've overtaken germany as the largest exporter , and they've started doing dna tests on kids to choose their careers .	他們已經超過美國 , 作為世界上最大的汽車市場 , 他們已經超過德國是最大的出口國 , 他們開始對孩子們做dna測試 , 來選擇他們的職業 。
we're finding all kinds of ways to push back the limits of what we know .	我們在尋找各種方法來把我們所知道的限制拉回來 。
some recent discoveries: there's an ant colony from argentina that has now spread to every continent but antarctica ; there's a selfdirected robot scientist that's made a discovery soon , science may no longer need us , and life may no longer need us either ; a microbe wakes up after 120 , 000 years .	最近的一些發現:現在阿根廷有一隻正在散播到每個大陸的螞蟻蟻蟻群 , 但南極 ; 有個自導導導的機器人科學家很快就發現了 , 科學可能不再需要我們 , 可能就不再需要我們了 ; 微生物在十二萬年前就開始出現了 。
it seems that with or without us , life will go on .	似乎沒有我們 , 生命就會延續下去 。
but my pick for the top long news story of this past year was this one: water found on the moon .	但去年 , 我挑選了長期新聞報導的最新故事是這個:水在月球上被發現 。
makes it a lot easier to put a colony up there .	把一個殖民地放到上面 , 變得更容易 。
and if nasa doesn't do it , china might , or somebody in this room might write a big check .	如果nasa不做 , 中國可能會 , 或在座的各位 , 可能會寫一張很大的支票 。
my point is this: in the long run , some news stories are more important than others .	我的重點是:長遠來看 , 有些新聞報導比其他新聞更重要 。
planetary scientist carolyn porco shows images from the cassini voyage to saturn , focusing on its largest moon , titan , and on frozen enceladus , which seems to shoot jets of ice .	行星科學家卡洛琳•帕爾科的影像顯示卡西尼航行到土星 , 聚焦在它最大的衛星泰坦星上 , 及在冷凍的土衛二上 , 似乎拍攝冰噴射機 。
nasa , design , exploration , science , space , technology , universe , visualizations	nasa , 設計 , 探索 , 科學 , 太空 , 科技 , 宇宙 , 視覺化 。
carolyn porco flies us to saturn	卡洛琳皮爾科向我們飛到土星 ,
in the next 18 minutes , i'm going to take you on a journey .	接下來的18分鐘 , 我要帶各位踏上一段旅程 。
and it's a journey that you and i have been on for many years now , and it began some 50 years ago , when humans first stepped off our planet .	這段旅程 , 你和我已經多年了 , 五十年前 , 人類第一次踏出我們的地球時 , 開始了 。
and in those 50 years , not only did we literally , physically set foot on the moon , but we have dispatched robotic spacecraft to all the planets all eight of them and we have landed on asteroids , we have rendezvoused with comets , and , at this point in time , we have a spacecraft on its way to pluto , the body formerly known as a planet .	在這50年裡 , 我們不只真的登上了月球 , 我們還把機械太空船和所有八個行星分佈在各個行星上 , 我們著陸在小行星上 , 我們有了彗星 , 此時此刻 , 我們有一艘太空船正在運行 , 運送到冥王星的路上 , 前所知的星球 。
and all of these robotic missions are part of a bigger human journey: a voyage to understand something , to get a sense of our cosmic place , to understand something of our origins , and how earth , our planet , and we , living on it , came to be .	所有這些機械裝置的使命 , 都屬於更大的人類旅程:一趟旅程 , 去了解我們的宇宙 , 去了解我們的起源 , 了解我們的起源 , 了解我們的星球 , 以及我們的星球 , 我們的生活 , 逐漸成形 。
and of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this , there's saturn . and we have been to saturn before we visited saturn in the early 1980s but our investigations of saturn have become far more indepth in detail since the cassini spacecraft , traveling across interplanetary space for seven years , glided into orbit around saturn in the summer of 2004 , and became at that point the farthest robotic outpost that humanity had ever established around the sun .	在太陽系裡所有我們可能去過的地方 , 尋找問題的答案 , 像是土星 。 我們曾到過土星 , 在八〇年代早期我們造訪過土星 , 但我們對土星的研究變得更加深入 , 自卡西尼號太空船在太空中穿梭於七年的星際太空船 , 在2004年的夏天時 , 已被送到土星上 , 此時此時此時此刻 , 已成為人類史上最前所未有的機械裝置 。
now , the saturn system is a rich planetary system .	土星系統是個很豐富的行星系統 。
it offers mystery , scientific insight and obviously splendor beyond compare , and the investigation of this system has enormous cosmic reach .	它提供了神秘的、科學的洞見 , 並且顯然超越了比較之外的光彩 , 而這個系統的調查有著巨大的宇宙範圍 。
in fact , just studying the rings alone , we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies .	事實上 , 光是研究光環 , 我們就能夠學到很多關於星星和氣體的圓盤 , 我們稱之為螺旋星系 。
and here's a beautiful picture of the andromeda nebula , which is our closest , largest spiral galaxy to the milky way .	這裡有一張美麗的照片 , 這是我們最接近的 , 最大型的銀河系 。
and then , here's a beautiful composite of the whirlpool galaxy , taken by the hubble space telescope .	這裡有個美麗的旋風星系由哈伯太空望遠鏡拍攝
so the journey back to saturn is really part of and is also a metaphor for a much larger human voyage to understand the interconnectedness of everything around us , and also how humans fit into that picture .	所以返回土星的旅程 , 其實是其中的一部分 , 也是人類更大的旅程的比喻 , 來了解我們身邊的事物之間的關聯性 , 以及人類如何融入這張照片 。
and it pains me that i can't tell you all that we have learned with cassini .	讓我很痛苦 , 我無法告訴各位 , 我們在卡西尼學過的一切 。
i can't show you all the beautiful pictures that we've taken in the last two and a half years , because i simply don't have the time .	我無法向各位展示我們在過去兩年半中拍攝的所有美麗的照片 , 因為我沒有時間 。
so i'm going to concentrate on two of the most exciting stories that have emerged out of this major exploratory expedition that we are conducting around saturn , and have been for the past two and a half years .	所以 , 我要把重點放在這次大型探險之旅中最令人振奮的兩個故事中 , 我們在土星周圍執行的兩年 , 過去兩年來 , 一直到現在為止 。
saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons .	陪伴土星 , 由一大群多樣化的衛星所組成 。
they range in size from a few kilometers across to as big across as the u . s .	它們的大小範圍從幾公里到美國的大小 。
most of the beautiful pictures we've taken of saturn , in fact , show saturn in accompaniment with some of its moons . here's saturn with dione , and then , here's saturn showing the rings edgeon , showing you just how vertically thin they are , with the moon enceladus .	我們拍攝的土星大部份美麗的照片 , 事實上 , 土星和它的一些衛星的衛星相伴 。 這是土星和土星的衛星 , 顯示它們的直徑 , 月亮與土衛二相同 。
now , two of the 47 moons that saturn has are standouts .	今日 , 土星47顆衛星有兩顆是起義的 。
and those are titan and enceladus . titan is saturn's largest moon , and , until cassini had arrived there , was the largest single expanse of unexplored terrain that we had remaining in our solar system .	這些是土衛二和土衛二的衛星 , 土衛六是土星最大的衛星 , 直到卡西尼號到達之前 , 是目前我們在太陽系中最大的未被探索的單一地形 。
and it is a body that has long intrigued people who've watched the planets .	它是一個擁有長久以來觀看這些星球的人們的身體 。
it has a very large , thick atmosphere , and in fact , its surface environment was believed to be more like the environment we have here on the earth , or at least had in the past , than any other body in the solar system .	它有很大、很厚的大氣 , 事實上 , 它的表面環境被認為比較像是我們在地球上所處的環境 , 至少在過去 , 比起在太陽系裡其它的身體 。
its atmosphere is largely molecular nitrogen , like you are breathing here in this room , except that its atmosphere is suffused with simple organic materials like methane and propane and ethane .	它的大氣層大多是分子氮 , 如你在這個房間裡呼吸的分子 , 只不過它的大氣中有簡單有機物質如甲烷、丙烷和乙烷等 。
and these molecules high up in the atmosphere of titan get broken down , and their products join together to make haze particles .	而這些分子在泰坦的大氣層高高溫下分解 , 它們的產品結合在一起形成迷霧的粒子 。
this haze is ubiquitous . it's completely global and enveloping titan .	這個迷宮無所不在 , 完全是全球化和開發的鐵達尼 。
and that's why you cannot see down to the surface with our eyes in the visible region of the spectrum .	這就是為什麼你不能用肉眼看到表面 , 眼睛在可見的區域中 。
but these haze particles , it was surmised , before we got there with cassini , over billions and billions of years , gently drifted down to the surface and coated the surface in a thick organic sludge .	但這些霧狀顆粒在我們抵達卡西尼號之前 , 數十億年來 , 溫柔地飄到水面上 , 覆蓋在厚實的有機物的表面上 。
so like the equivalent , the titan equivalent , of tar , or oil , or what we didn't know what .	像這樣 , 泰坦也一樣 , 焦油 , 油 , 或我們不知道什麼 。
but this is what we suspected . and these molecules , especially methane and ethane , can be liquids at the surface temperatures of titan .	但這就是我們所猜測的 。 這些分子 , 尤其是甲烷和乙烷 , 可以是土衛六表面溫度的液體 。
and so it turns out that methane is to titan what water is to the earth .	結果發現 , 甲烷是要跟土衛六一樣多的水 。
it's a condensable in the atmosphere , and so recognizing this circumstance brought to the fore a whole world of bizarre possibilities . you can have methane clouds , ok , and above those clouds , you have this hundreds of kilometers of haze , which prevent any sunlight from getting to the surface .	它在大氣中是冷凝的 , 所以 , 認識到這種情況為前面的世界帶來了一個怪異的可能性 。 你可以有甲烷雲 , 在這些雲之上有數百公里長的霧氣 , 阻止任何陽光照射到地表 。
the temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero fahrenheit .	表面溫度是華氏零下350度 。
but despite that cold , you could have rain falling down on the surface of titan .	但儘管那寒冷 , 你還是可以讓降雨掉到泰坦的表面 。
and doing on titan what rain does on the earth: it carves gullies ; it forms rivers and cataracts ; it can create canyons ; it can pool in large basins and craters .	降雨在地球上所做的事:它雕刻了幾座河流和白內障 ; 它可以創造峽谷 ; 大盆地和隕石坑 。
it can wash the sludge off high mountain peaks and hills , down into the lowlands . so stop and think for a minute .	它可以在高山峰和高山丘上沖洗到低地 , 停下來想一想 。
try to imagine what the surface of titan might look like .	試想土衛六的表面會長什麼樣子 。
it's dark . high noon on titan is as dark as deep earth twilight on the earth .	一片黑暗 , 泰坦的中午 , 和地球上深處的黑暗一樣 。
it's cold , it's eerie , it's misty , it might be raining , and you might be standing on the shores of lake michigan brimming with paint thinner .	天氣很冷 , 天氣很差 , 天氣很差 , 可能在下雨 , 你可能會站在密西根湖的密西根湖邊緣 , 用油漆很薄 。
that is the view that we had of the surface of titan before we got there with cassini , and i can tell you that what we have found on titan , though it is not the same in detail , is every bit as fascinating as that story is .	這是我們在卡西尼號抵達卡西尼號之前的景象 , 我可以告訴各位 , 我們在泰坦身上發現的景象 , 儘管它不一樣 , 和這個故事很迷人的景象一樣 。
and for us , it has been like the cassini people it has been like a jules verne adventure come true .	對我們來說 , 這就像卡西尼號一樣 , 一直以來 , 像一個朱爾•凡爾納的冒險故事成真了 。
as i said , it has a thick , extensive atmosphere .	如我所說 , 它有很厚的大氣層 。
this is a picture of titan , backlit by the sun , with the rings as a beautiful backdrop .	這是土衛二的照片 , 由太陽光照射 , 光環是美麗的背景 。
and yet another moon there i don't even know which one it is . it's a very extensive atmosphere .	另外一個衛星--我甚至不知道它是哪個 。 它是一個非常廣泛的大氣 。
we have instruments on cassini which can see down to the surface through this atmosphere , and my camera system is one of them .	我們在卡西尼號上有儀器 , 可以透過大氣看到地表 , 我的相機系統就是其中之一 。
and we have taken pictures like this .	我們拍了這張照片 。
and what you see is bright and dark regions , and that's about as far as it got for us .	你所看到的是明亮、黑暗的區域 , 且那正是我們所能達到的程度 。
it was so mystifying: we couldn't make out what we were seeing on titan .	這實在太神秘了:我們無法弄清楚我們在泰坦看到的 。
when you look closer at this region , you start to see things like sinuous channels we didn't know . you see a few round things .	當你仔細看這個區域 , 你會開始看到一些圓形的管道 , 例如那些我們不知道的管道 。 你看到一些圓形的東西 。
this , we later found out , is , in fact , a crater , but there are very few craters on the surface of titan , meaning it's a very young surface .	後來我們發現 , 事實上 , 一個隕石坑 , 但在土衛六表面 , 很少有隕石坑 , 意思就是 , 土衛六的表面非常年輕 。
and there are features that look tectonic .	有些特徵看起來像個地形 。
they look like they've been pulled apart .	他們看起來像是已經被拉開了 。
whenever you see anything linear on a planet , it means there's been a fracture , like a fault .	每當你在星球上看到任何線性的東西 , 那就意味著 , 有一個分裂 , 像一個斷層 。
and so it's been tectonically altered .	所以它在地理上已經被改變了 。
but we couldn't make sense of our images , until , six months after we got into orbit , an event occurred that many have regarded as the highlight of cassini's investigation of titan .	但我們無法理解我們的影像 , 直到我們進入軌道的六個月後 , 許多人都認為卡西尼探究了泰坦的高光 。
and that was the deployment of the huygens probe , the europeanbuilt huygens probe that cassini had carried for seven years across the solar system . we deployed it to the atmosphere of titan , it took two and a half hours to descend , and it landed on the surface .	這就是惠更斯號探測器的部署 , 歐洲製造的huygensi號探測器 , 橫跨太陽系的七年 。 我們將它發射到泰坦的大氣中 , 要花兩個半小時才下降 , 還要在地表上著陸 。
and i just want to emphasize how significant an event this is .	我只想強調這是多麼重要的一件事
this is a device of human making , and it landed in the outer solar system for the first time in human history .	這是個人類製造的裝置 , 登陸在人類歷史上第一次 。
it is so significant that , in my mind , this was an event that should have been celebrated with ticker tape parades in every city across the u . s . and europe , and sadly , that wasn't the case .	非常重要的是 , 在我心中 , 這是一場活動 , 值得慶祝 , 在美國和歐洲各個城市中 , 不幸的是 , 在美國和歐洲各個城市中 , 都應該要慶祝這個活動 。
it was significant for another reason . this is an international mission , and this event was celebrated in europe , in germany , and the celebratory presentations were given in english accents , and american accents , and german accents , and french and italian and dutch accents .	這是個重要的原因 。 這是個國際性的使命 , 這個活動在歐洲、德國、以及慶祝的報導都出現在英語的口音、美國口音、德語、法語、義大利和荷蘭口音 。
it was a moving demonstration of what the words " united nations " are supposed to mean: a true union of nations joined together in a colossal effort for good .	這是個動人的示範 , 展示了 " 聯合國 " 的字眼 , 意思是:一個國家的真實聯合國 , 參與了一場為好的巨大努力 。
and , in this case , it was a massive undertaking to explore a planet , and to come to understand a planetary system that , for all of human history , had been unreachable , and now humans had actually touched it .	在這個案例中 , 探索一個星球是非常重要的 , 為了了解一個星球系統 , 人類歷史上所有的星球都無法修復 , 而現在 , 人類已經觸動了它 。
so it was i mean , i'm getting goose bumps just talking about it .	所以 , 我的意思是 , 我只談起雞皮疙瘩 。
it was a tremendously emotional event , and it's something that i will personally never forget , and you shouldn't either .	那是個極度情緒化的事件 , 而這也是我個人永遠不會忘記的事 , 你也不該忘記 。
but anyway , the probe took measurements of the atmosphere on the way down , and it also took panoramic pictures .	儘管如此 , 探測器在往下一路測量大氣 , 同時也拍攝了全景照片 。
and i can't tell you what it was like to see the first pictures of titan's surface from the probe . and this is what we saw .	我無法告訴各位 , 看見泰坦表面的第一張照片是什麼樣子 。 這是我們看到的景象 。
and it was a shocker , because it was everything we wanted those other pictures taken from orbit to be .	這實在很震驚 , 因為那是我們希望其他的照片從軌道上拍下來的 。
it was an unambiguous pattern , a geological pattern .	這是個不明確的模式 , 地質模式 。
it's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids .	這種樹突狀的排水模式只能由液體的流動形成 。
and you can follow these channels and you can see how they all converge .	你可以沿著這些管道 , 看出它們如何匯合 。
and they converge into this channel here , which drains into this region .	他們聚集在這裡的通道 , 滲透到這個區域 。
you are looking at a shoreline .	你看到的是一條海岸線 。
was this a shoreline of fluids ? we didn't know .	這是液體的海岸線嗎 ? 我們不知道
but this is somewhat of a shoreline .	但這有點像是一條海岸線
this picture is taken at 16 kilometers .	這張照片是在16公里拍的 。
this is the picture taken at eight kilometers , ok ? again , the shoreline .	這張照片是在八公里拍攝的 , 好嗎 ? 再一次 , 海岸線 。
okay , now , 16 kilometers , eight kilometers this is roughly an airline altitude .	好 , 現在 , 16公里 , 8公里--大約是一架飛機高度 。
if you were going to take an airplane trip across the u . s . , you would be flying at these altitudes .	如果你要搭飛機橫越美國 , 你會在這些高度飛行 。
so , this is the picture you would have at the window of titanian airlines as you fly across the surface of titan .	這是你在鐵達尼亞航空公司飛越土衛六的照片 。
and then finally , the probe came to rest on the surface , and i'm going to show you , ladies and gentlemen , the first picture ever taken from the surface of a moon in the outer solar system .	最後 , 探測器終於在表面上休息了 , 我將向你們展示 , 各位先生女士 , 這是第一次從外太陽系的衛星表面拍攝的照片 。
and here is the horizon , ok ?	這是地平線 , 好嗎 ?
these are probably water ice pebbles , yes ?	這些可能是水冰鵝卵石 , 對嗎 ?
and obviously , it landed in one of these flat , dark regions and it didn't sink out of sight . so it wasn't fluid that we landed in .	很顯然 , 它落在其中一個平坦的黑色區域 , 並且它沒有沉沒在視線中 。 所以我們著陸的不是液體 。
what the probe came down in was basically the titan equivalent of a mud flat .	探測器最後落入的基本上就是一片泥巴的泰坦 。
this is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane .	這是一片無情的土地 , 充滿了液態甲烷 。
and it's probably the case that this material has washed off the highlands of titan through these channels that we saw , and has drained over billions of years to fill in lowlying basins .	很可能這種材料已經透過我們看到的這些通道沖掉了泰坦高地 , 數十億年來 , 流失在低窪的盆地上 。
and that is what the huygens probe landed in .	這就是惠更斯號探測器著陸的地方 。
but still , there was no sign in our images , or even in the huygens' images , of any large , open bodies of fluids .	但 , 仍然沒有任何跡象出現在我們的影像中 , 甚至在huygens的影像中 , 任何大型、開放的液體都沒有 。
where were they ? it got even more puzzling when we found dunes .	他們在哪裡 ? 當我們發現沙丘時 , 更讓人困惑 。
ok , so this is our movie of the equatorial region of titan , showing these dunes . these are dunes that are 100 meters tall , separated by a few kilometers , and they go on for miles and miles and miles .	好 , 這是我們的電影 , 地下赤道的區域 , 展示這些沙丘 。 這些沙丘是一百公尺高 , 以幾公里的高度偏離 , 再往上一英里 , 一英里 , 一英里 。
there's hundreds , up to a 1 , 000 or 1 , 200 miles of dunes .	幾百英里高達一千或一千兩百英里的沙丘 。
this is the saharan desert of titan .	這是泰坦的撒哈拉沙漠 。
it's obviously a place which is very dry , or you wouldn't get dunes .	這顯然是個非常乾燥的地方 , 不然就不會有沙丘了 。
so again , it got puzzling that there were no bodies of fluid , until finally , we saw lakes in the polar regions .	再一次 , 令人困惑的是 , 沒有液體 , 直到終於 , 我們在極地看到湖 。
and there is a lake scene in the south polar region of titan .	在南極極地帶有一片湖在泰坦的南極區域 。
it's about the size of lake ontario .	大小相當於安大略湖的大小 。
and then , only a week and a half ago , we flew over the north pole of titan and found , again , we found a feature here the size of the caspian sea .	然後 , 就在一個禮拜前 , 我們飛越泰坦的北極 , 再一次發現 , 我們發現一個和卡斯匹亞海一樣大的特徵 。
so it seems that the liquids , for some reason we don't understand , or during at least this season , are apparently at the poles of titan .	所以 , 似乎是液體 , 基於某些原因我們不了解 , 至少在這個季節 , 很明顯地 , 在泰坦的極地 。
and i think you would agree that we have found titan is a remarkable , mystical place . it's exotic , it's alien , but yet strangely earthlike , and having earthlike geological formations and a tremendous geographical diversity , and is a fascinating world whose only rival in the solar system for complexity and richness is the earth itself .	我想你應該認同我們發現泰坦是個很了不起、神秘的地方 。 它很奇怪 , 很像外星人 , 有著類似的地球形態 , 有著很驚人的地理形態和多樣性的地理環境 , 而這個迷人的世界 , 在太陽系中只靠太陽能和地球的豐富度來源 。
and so now we go onto enceladus . enceladus is a small moon , it's about a tenth the size of titan . and you can see it here next to england , just to show you the size . this is not meant to be a threat .	所以現在我們繼續到土衛二 。 土衛二是一個小型的衛星 , 土衛六的大小約十分之一 。 你可以看到它在英國旁邊 , 向你展示它的大小 。 這不代表威脅 。
and enceladus is very white , it's very bright , and its surface is obviously wrecked with fractures .	土衛二非常白 , 非常亮 , 它的表面顯然是破碎的 。
it is a very geologically active body .	它是一個地質上非常活躍的身體 。
but the mother lode of discoveries on enceladus was found at the south pole and we're looking at the south pole here where we found this system of fractures .	但在土衛二上的發現大多在南極的發現 , 我們正在研究南極點 , 發現了這些碎形的系統 。
and they're a different color because they're a different composition .	它們的顏色不同 , 因為它們是不同的成分 。
they are coated . these fractures are coated with organic materials .	它們被覆蓋著 。 這些碎片覆蓋著有機物質 。
moreover , this whole , entire region , the south polar region , has elevated temperatures . it's the hottest place on the planet , on the body .	此外 , 整個南極區域的溫度上升了 , 溫度上升了 , 整個地球上最熱的地方 , 在身體上 。
that's as bizarre as finding that the antarctic on the earth is hotter than the tropics .	這就好奇怪了 , 發現地球上的南極比熱帶地區還熱 。
and then , when we took additional pictures , we discovered that from these fractures are issuing jets of fine , icy particles extending hundreds of miles into space .	然後 , 當我們拍了更多照片 , 我們發現從這些裂痕中 , 正噴射出細微的冰粒 , 噴射到宇宙中數百英里外 。
and when we colorcode this image , to bring out the faint light levels , we see that these jets feed a plume that , in fact , we see , in other images , goes thousands of miles into the space above enceladus .	當我們用顏色來分析這個影像 , 來提取微弱的光線 , 我們看到這些噴流實際上是以數千英里的高度在土衛二上方的太空中 。
my team and i have examined images like this , and like this one , and have thought about the other results from cassini .	我和我的團隊對這樣的圖片進行了研究 , 像這張 , 想了一下卡西尼號的其他成果 。
and we have arrived at the conclusion that these jets may be erupting from pockets of liquid water under the surface of enceladus .	我們得到的結論是 , 這些噴流可能是從土衛二地表下的液態水的口袋噴發出來的 。
so we have , possibly , liquid water , organic materials and excess heat .	所以 , 我們可能有液態水、有機物質、過熱 。
in other words , we have possibly stumbled upon the holy grail of modern day planetary exploration , or in other words , an environment that is potentially suitable for living organisms .	換句話說 , 我們有可能碰到現代行星探索的聖杯 , 或者說 , 一個可能適合生物生存的環境 。
and i don't think i need to tell you that the discovery of life elsewhere in our solar system , whether it be on enceladus or elsewhere , would have enormous cultural and scientific implications .	我想我不需要告訴各位 , 在我們的太陽系中其它地方生命的發現 , 不論在土衛二或其它地方 , 都會有很大的文化和科學意涵 。
because if we could demonstrate that genesis had occurred not once , but twice , independently , in our solar system , then that means , by inference , it has occurred a staggering number of times throughout the universe and its 13 . 7 billion year history .	因為如果我們能夠證明 , 基因的產生不止一次 , 而是在我們的太陽系裡 , 兩次 , 獨立 , 那就表示 , 宇宙中有十七億年出現了驚人的數量 。
right now , earth is the only planet still that we know is teeming with life .	目前 , 地球仍是我們所知的唯一星球 , 充滿了生命 。
it is precious , it is unique , it is still , so far , the only home we've ever known .	它很珍貴 , 它是獨一無二的 , 它仍然是如此 , 到目前為止 , 我們唯一知道的家 。
and if any of you were alert and coherent during the 1960s and we'd forgive you , if you weren't , ok you would remember this very famous picture taken by the apollo 8 astronauts in 1968 .	如果在座有任何人在1960年代的時候有一名警察和一致 , 我們會原諒你 , 如果你不是 , 好 , 你會記得1968年阿波羅八號太空人所拍攝的這張非常有名的照片 。
it was the first time that earth was imaged from space , and it had an enormous impact on our sense of place in the universe , and our sense of responsibility for the protection of our own planet .	那是第一次 , 地球從太空中被拍攝出來 , 它對我們在宇宙中的位置產生了巨大的衝擊 , 我們對於保護地球的責任感也產生了巨大的衝擊 。
well , we on cassini have taken an equivalent first , a picture that no human eye has ever seen before .	嗯 , 我們在卡西尼號拍下的第一張相片 , 是前所未見的 。
it is a total eclipse of the sun , seen from the other side of saturn .	它是日全食從土星的另一端看到的 。
and in this impossibly beautiful picture , you see the main rings backlit by the sun , you see the refracted image of the sun and you see this ring created , in fact , by the exhalations of enceladus .	在這張無與倫比的照片裡 , 你看到背光被太陽照射的主圈 , 你看到太陽折射出來的景象 , 看到這個光環 , 由土衛二的耗損所產生 。
but as if that weren't brilliant enough , we can spot , in this beautiful image , sight of our own planet , cradled in the arms of saturn's rings .	但如果這還不夠精彩 , 我們能在這個美麗的圖像中看到我們自己的星球 , 在土星的光環中行進 。
now , there is something deeply moving about seeing ourselves from afar , and capturing the sight of our little , blueocean planet in the skies of other worlds .	對於從遠處看我們自己 , 有種深入的動人 , 深入了解到我們在其他星球上看得到的 , 藍色的地球 。
and that , and the perspective of ourselves that we gain from that , may be , in the end , the finest reward that we earn from this journey of discovery that started half a century ago .	我們從中得到的看法 , 可能是 , 最終 , 我們從這次的發現之旅中得到最好的獎賞 , 始於半個世紀之前 。
as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped . this slows the delivery of aid after a disaster and hides the economic potential of unused lands and unknown roads . in this short talk , google's lalitesh katragadda demos map maker , a group mapmaking tool that people around the globe are using to map their world .	截至2005年 , 僅有15%的地球被繪製成地圖 。 這是在災難後 , 援助減緩了 , 隱藏了未被使用的土地和未知道路的經濟潛力 。 在演講中 , 谷歌的lalitechkatradasdemos繪製了全球各地的人所使用的地圖工具 。
collaboration , design , map , technology	合作 , 設計 , 地圖 , 科技 。
lalitesh katragadda: making maps to fight disaster , build economies	已故的katragada:製作地圖來對抗災難 , 建立經濟體 。
in 2008 , cyclone nargis devastated myanmar .	在2008年 , 塞隆納基斯摧毀了緬甸 。
millions of people were in severe need of help .	數百萬人受到極大的幫助 。
the u . n . wanted to rush people and supplies to the area .	聯合國想要把人趕出去 , 提供給當地的人 。
but there were no maps , no maps of roads , no maps showing hospitals , no way for help to reach the cyclone victims .	但沒有地圖 , 沒有道路的地圖 , 沒有顯示醫院的地圖 , 沒有辦法幫助受害者接觸的地圖 。
when we look at a map of los angeles or london , it is hard to believe that as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geocodable level of detail .	當我們看洛杉磯或倫敦的地圖時 , 很難相信在2005年 , 世界上只有15%的人被繪製在可數位化的細節上 。
the u . n . ran headfirst into a problem that the majority of the world's populous faces: not having detailed maps .	聯合國也陷入了世界上大部分人口人口大臉孔的問題:沒有詳細的地圖 。
but help was coming .	但 , 救助也來了 。
at google , 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120 , 000 kilometers of roads , 3 , 000 hospitals , logistics and relief points .	在谷歌 , 有四十個志願者使用一個新軟體來繪製十二萬公里的道路 , 三千間醫院、物流和救災點 。
and it took them four days .	他們花了四天的時間 。
the new software they used ? google mapmaker .	他們使用的新軟體呢 ? googlemapmaker.
google mapmaker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally .	googlemapmaker是一項科技 , 讓我們能夠在地圖上繪製出我們熟知的地圖 。
people have used this software to map everything from roads to rivers , from schools to local businesses , and video stores to the corner store .	人們用這套軟體繪製了從道路到河流、學校到當地企業的地圖 , 到街角的商店 。
nobel prize nominee hernando de soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land .	諾貝爾獎提名人赫爾南多•德•索托認爲開發中國家的經濟利益關鍵在於利用大量無限量的土地 。
for example , a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapitalized in india alone .	舉例來說 , 光在印度 , 一兆美元的房地產仍然是不成文的 。
in the last year alone , thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information , and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable .	僅在去年170個國家 , 成千上萬的使用者就已繪製出數百萬個細節的地圖 , 前所未見的細節地圖 。
and this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere .	這樣做是有可能的 , 因為到處都有熱情的使用者 。
let's look at some of the maps being created by users right now .	讓我們來看看現在使用者所製作的一些地圖 。
so , as we speak , people are mapping the world in these 170 countries .	所以 , 在我們的演說中 , 在這170個國家中 , 人們在繪製這個世界的地圖 。
you can see bridget in africa who just mapped a road in senegal .	你可以看到在非洲的橋樑 , 剛在塞內加爾繪製了一條道路 。
and , closer to home , chalua , an n . g . road in bangalore .	再靠近一點 , 瓦拉 , 一個在班加羅爾的n.g.道路 。
this is the result of computational geometry , gesture recognition , and machine learning .	這是計算幾何、手勢識別 , 和機器學習的結果 。
this is a victory of thousands of users , in hundreds of cities , one user , one edit at a time .	這是數以千計使用者的勝利 , 在數百個城市中 , 一個使用者 , 一次編輯一個編輯 。
this is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet .	這是個邀請 , 邀請我們70%未開發的星球 。
welcome to the new world .	歡迎來到新世界 。
in 2003 , the palestinian village of budrus mounted a 10monthlong nonviolent protest to stop a barrier being built across their olive groves . did you hear about it ? didn't think so . brazilian filmmaker julia bacha asks why we only pay attention to violence in the israelpalestine conflict and not to the nonviolent leaders who may one day bring peace .	在2003年 , 巴勒斯坦村落布德鲁斯村在一個月長達十個月的非暴力抗爭中停止一個障礙橫跨他們的橄欖樹林你聽到了嗎 ? 不這麼想巴西的電影製片人朱利亞•巴查查查納問我們為什麼只在以色列的衝突中留意暴力 , 而非暴力的領導者卻沒有權利 。
arts , communication , compassion , entertainment , film , peace , violence , war	藝術、溝通、同情心、娛樂、電影、和平、暴力、戰爭 。
julia bacha: pay attention to nonviolence	juliabacha:請注意非暴力手段 。
for the last 8 years , i have dedicated my life to documenting the work of israelis and palestinians who are trying to end the conflict using peaceful means .	在過去八年間 , 我致力於記錄以色列和巴勒斯坦試圖用和平的方式結束衝突的人們 。
when i travel with my work across europe and the united states , one question always comes up: where is the palestinian gandhi ?	當我在歐洲和美國各地旅行時 , 總是有一個問題:巴勒斯坦的甘地在哪裡 ?
why aren't palestinians using nonviolent resistance ?	為什麼巴勒斯坦人沒有使用非暴力抗爭的抗爭呢 ?
the challenge i face when i hear this question is that often i have just returned from the middle east where i spent my time filming dozens of palestinians who are using nonviolence to defend their lands and water resources from israeli soldiers and settlers .	當我聽到這個問題時 , 我所面臨的挑戰是 , 通常我才剛從中東回來 , 那時我花了很多時間拍攝了數十位巴勒斯坦人 , 他們用非暴力的方式來保護他們的土地和水資源 , 不受以色列士兵和移民者的傷害 。
these leaders are trying to forge a massive national nonviolent movement to end the occupation and build peace in the region .	這些領導人正在嘗試推動一個巨大的全國性非暴力運動 , 終結該地區的佔領 , 建立和平 。
yet , most of you have probably never heard about them .	但 , 在座大部分人可能從未聽說過他們 。
this divide between what's happening on the ground and perceptions abroad is one of the key reasons why we don't have yet a palestinian peaceful resistance movement that has been successful .	這種分裂發生在地上和國外發生的事情之間的差異 , 正是其中一個原因 , 也是為什麼我們還沒有一個巴勒斯坦和平的抵抗運動成功的原因 。
so i'm here today to talk about the power of attention , the power of your attention , and the emergence and development of nonviolent movements in the west bank , gaza and elsewhere but today , my case study is going to be palestine .	所以今天我在這裡要談關注的力量 , 關注的力量 , 以及在西岸、加薩和其他地方 , 非暴力運動的出現和發展 , 今天我要談的是關於關注的力量 , 關於你們關注的力量 , 以及你們關注的力量 , 以及在西岸、加薩和其他地方的非暴力運動的發展 , 和發展 , 但今天 , 我的個案研究將會是巴勒斯坦 。
i believe that what's mostly missing for nonviolence to grow is not for palestinians to start adopting nonviolence , but for us to start paying attention to those who already are .	我相信 , 要培養非暴力手段 , 最缺少的就是不要讓巴勒斯坦人開始採用非暴力手段 , 而是要讓我們開始注意那些已經有暴力的人 。
allow me to illustrate this point by taking you to this village called budrus .	讓我帶各位了解一下這個點 , 藉由這個叫做布德鲁斯村的村子 , 來說明這個點 。
about seven years ago , they faced extinction , because israel announced it would build a separation barrier , and part of this barrier would be built on top of the village .	大約七年前 , 他們面臨絕種 , 因為以色列宣佈要建立一個隔離屏障 , 其中的一部份會在村落的上方建起 。
they would lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded , so they would lose free access to the rest of the west bank .	他們會失去百分之四十的土地 , 被包圍著 , 這樣他們就無法取得西岸其餘的銀行 。
through inspired local leadership , they launched a peaceful resistance campaign to stop that from happening .	透過當地的領導力 , 他們發動了和平抗爭的運動 , 來阻止這種事發生 。
let me show you some brief clips , so you have a sense for what that actually looked like on the ground .	讓我給你們看一些簡短的片段 , 你們可以體會一下在地上長什麼樣子 。
palestinian woman: we were told the wall would separate palestine from israel .	巴勒斯坦女人:我們聽說牆壁將與以色列分開巴勒斯坦
here in budrus , we realized the wall would steal our land .	在布德鲁斯村 , 我們發現牆壁會偷走我們的土地 。
israeli man: the fence has , in fact , created a solution to terror .	以色列人:那道牆壁確實創造了恐怖的解方 。
man: today you're invited to a peaceful march .	男人:今天你被邀請去一個和平的遊行 。
you are joined by dozens of your israeli brothers and sisters .	加入了數十位以色列兄弟姐妹 。
israeli activist: nothing scares the army more than nonviolent opposition .	以色列積極份子:軍隊最怕的就是非暴力抗爭 。
woman: we saw the men trying to push the soldiers , but none of them could do that .	女人:我們看到那些男人試著推開士兵 , 但沒有一個男人能這麼做 。
but i think the girls could do it .	但我認為這些女孩可以做到 。
fatah party member: we must empty our minds of traditional thinking .	法塔赫黨員:我們必須清空傳統思想的心態 。
hamas party member: we were in complete harmony , and we wanted to spread it to all of palestine .	哈馬斯黨員:我們是完全和諧的 , 我們想要將它散播到所有巴勒斯坦 。
chanting: one united nation .	聊天:一個聯合國 。
fatah , hamas and the popular front !	法塔赫、哈馬斯 , 及流行的前線 !
news anchor: the clashes over the fence continue .	主持人:這道牆上的衝突持續著 。
reporter: israeli border police were sent to disperse the crowd .	記者:以色列邊界警察被送去散播群眾 。
they were allowed to use any force necessary .	他們被允許使用任何必要的力量 。
man: these are live bullets .	男人:這些就是現場的子彈 。
it's like fallujah . shooting everywhere .	這就像失落的jah , 到處射擊 。
israeli activist: i was sure we were all going to die .	以色列積極份子:我確信我們都會死 。
but there were others around me who weren't even cowering .	但在我周圍有一些人甚至不敢說出話來 。
israeli soldier: a nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear] .	以色列士兵:非暴力抗爭不會停止這場戰爭 。
protester: this is a peaceful march .	抗議者:這是一場和平的遊行 。
there is no need to use violence .	不需要使用暴力 。
chanting: we can do it ! we can do it !	聊天:我們做得到 ! 我們做得到 !
julia bacha: when i first heard about the story of budrus , i was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago , in 2003 .	朱莉亞•巴哈:當我第一次聽到布德鲁斯村的故事時 , 我很驚訝 , 國際媒體在七年前就沒有報導這一連串驚人的事件 。
what was even more surprising was the fact that budrus was successful .	更令人驚訝的是布德鲁斯村成功了 。
the residents , after 10 months of peaceful resistance , convinced the israeli government to move the route of the barrier off their lands and to the green line , which is the internationally recognized boundary between israel and the palestinian territories .	居民們 , 經過十個月的和平抗爭 , 說服了以色列政府將牆壁的路線從他們的土地移開 , 移到綠線上 , 國際上認可以色列和巴勒斯坦領土間的界線 。
the resistance in budrus has since spread to villages across the west bank and to palestinian neighborhoods in jerusalem .	布德鲁斯村的抗爭從此散播到西岸的村落 , 再到耶路撒冷的巴勒斯坦社區 。
yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories .	但媒體仍然對這些故事保持沉默 。
this silence carries profound consequences for the likelihood that nonviolence can grow , or even survive , in palestine .	這種沉默會帶來很深刻的影響 , 影響到非暴力可能會成長的可能性 , 甚至在巴勒斯坦生存的可能性 。
violent resistance and nonviolent resistance share one very important thing in common ; they are both a form of theater seeking an audience to their cause .	暴力抗爭和非暴力抗爭都有一個非常重要的共通點 , 它們都是劇場的一種形式 , 尋求觀眾的目標 。
if violent actors are the only ones constantly getting frontpage covers and attracting international attention to the palestinian issue , it becomes very hard for nonviolent leaders to make the case to their communities that civil disobedience is a viable option in addressing their plight .	如果暴力演員是唯一不斷得到封面 , 吸引巴勒斯坦問題的國際性團體 , 那就很難讓非暴力的領導人轉向他們的社區 , 即公民不服從是個可行的選項 , 要解決他們的困境 。
the power of attention is probably going to come as no surprise to the parents in the room .	關注的力量可能對在場的父母親一點都不驚訝 。
the surest way to make your child throw increasingly louder tantrums is by giving him attention the first time he throws a fit .	要讓孩子更吵得更大聲的特技 , 肯定的是 , 第一次給予他關注 , 讓他放下一片水果 。
the tantrum will become what childhood psychologists call a functional behavior , since the child has learned that he can get parental attention out of it .	誘惑會變成童年心理學家所說的功能性行為 , 因為孩子已經知道他可以從中得到父母的注意力 。
parents can incentivize or disincentivize behavior simply by giving or withdrawing attention to their children .	父母可以透過給予或消除孩童注意力來激勵或抑制行為 。
but that's true for adults too .	但對成人也是如此 。
in fact , the behavior of entire communities and countries can be influenced , depending on where the international community chooses to focus its attention .	事實上 , 整個社區和國家的行為可能受到影響 , 取決於國際社會選擇聚焦於關注的地方 。
i believe that at the core of ending the conflict in the middle east and bringing peace is for us to transform nonviolence into a functional behavior by giving a lot more attention to the nonviolent leaders on the ground today .	我相信 , 在終結中東的衝突的核心 , 並為我們帶來和平的核心 , 就是要將非暴力抗爭轉化為一種功能性行為 , 做法就是讓更多人關注在現今的非暴力領導者身上 。
in the course of taking my film to villages in the west bank , in gaza and in east jerusalem , i have seen the impact that even one documentary film can have in influencing the transformation .	在拍攝我的電影的過程中 , 在西岸的村落、加薩、東耶路撒冷的村落 , 我見識到 , 連一部紀錄片都能影響改造 。
in a village called wallajeh , which sits very close to jerusalem , the community was facing a very similar plight to budrus .	在一個叫做瓦拉杰的村落裡 , 座落在非常接近耶路撒冷的村落裡 , 社區正面臨著和布德魯斯非常相似的困境 。
they were going to be surrounded , lose a lot of their lands and not have freedom of access , either to the west bank or jerusalem .	他們將被包圍 , 失去許多土地 , 失去許多土地 , 無法取得任何自由 , 無論是西岸或耶路撒冷 。
they had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention .	兩年來 , 他們一直在使用非暴力手段 , 但他們一直在使用非暴力手段 , 因為沒有人在注意 。
so we organized a screening .	所以我們安排了一個螢幕 。
a week later , they held the most wellattended and disciplined demonstration to date .	一週後 , 他們舉行了目前為止最完善、最有紀律的示範 。
the organizers say that the villagers , upon seeing the story of budrus documented in a film , felt that there were indeed people following what they were doing , that people cared .	組織者說 , 村民們 , 看到布德鲁斯村的故事 , 被記錄在電影裡 , 覺得他們確實有跟隨他們在做的事 , 有人在乎他們在乎的事 。
so they kept on going .	所以他們繼續前進 。
on the israeli side , there is a new peace movement called solidariot , which means solidarity in hebrew .	在以色列的角度 , 有一種新的和平運動叫做索里達爾特 , 在希伯來語中代表團結 。
the leaders of this movement have been using budrus as one of their primary recruiting tools .	這項運動的領袖一直在用布德鲁斯村當作他們的主要招募工具之一 。
they report that israelis who had never been active before , upon seeing the film , understand the power of nonviolence and start joining their activities .	他們報告說 , 以色列從未有過活躍過 , 看過電影 , 了解非暴力的力量 , 開始加入他們的活動 。
the examples of wallajeh and the solidariot movement show that even a smallbudget independent film can play a role in transforming nonviolence into a functional behavior .	瓦拉杰和索里德的暴動案例顯示即使只是一部小小的預算獨立電影也能在將非暴力轉化為功能性行為的情況下扮演一個角色 。
now imagine the power that big media players could have if they started covering the weekly nonviolent demonstrations happening in villages like bil'in , ni'lin , wallajeh , in jerusalem neighborhoods like sheikh jarrah and silwan the nonviolent leaders would become more visible , valued and effective in their work .	想像一下 , 如果大媒體開始報導每週在村落中發生的非暴力示威 , 例如比爾賓、尼尼林、瓦拉杰 , 在耶路撒冷的社區 , 像希克拉和西爾瓦 , 非暴力領袖在工作中變得更加明顯、更有效 。
i believe that the most important thing is to understand that if we don't pay attention to these efforts , they are invisible , and it's as if they never happened .	我相信 , 最重要的是要了解 , 如果我們不把注意力放在這些努力上 , 它們是看不見的 , 就好像它們從未發生過一樣 。
but i have seen first hand that if we do , they will multiply .	但我首先看到 , 如果我們這樣做 , 它們就會相乘 。
if they multiply , their influence will grow in the overall israelipalestinian conflict .	如果他們相乘 , 他們的影響會在以色列巴勒斯坦總體的衝突中成長 。
and theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation .	而他們的影響力正是那種能夠解開局面的影響力 。
these leaders have proven that nonviolence works in places like budrus .	這些領導人證明了非暴力組織在布德鲁斯村等地區是行得通的 。
let's give them attention so they can prove it works everywhere .	讓我們集中注意力 , 讓他們到處證明它是行得通的 。
simon sinek has a simple but powerful model for inspirational leadership all starting with a golden circle and the question " why ? " his examples include apple , martin luther king , and the wright brothers . . .	西蒙奈克有個簡單但強大的模式 , 可以鼓舞人心的領導 , 全都以金色圓圈開始 , 問題是:為什麼 ? 他的例子包括蘋果、馬丁•路德•金 , 還有萊特兄弟......
bullseye , business , entrepreneur , leadership , sales , selling , success	bullsey , 企業家 , 企業家 , 領導力 , 銷售 , 成功 。
simon sinek: how great leaders inspire action	西蒙娜克:偉大的領袖如何啟發行動 。
how do you explain when things don't go as we assume ?	你怎麼解釋當事情不如預設的樣子 ?
or better , how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions ?	或者更好的是 , 你如何解釋當其他人能夠達成似乎違反所有假設的事物時 , 你要如何解釋 ?
for example: why is apple so innovative ?	例如:為什麼蘋果這麼創新 ?
year after year , after year , after year , they're more innovative than all their competition .	年復一年 , 年復一年 , 年復一年 , 他們比他們所有的競爭對手都更創新 。
and yet , they're just a computer company .	但 , 他們只是一家電腦公司 。
they're just like everyone else .	它們就像其他人一樣 。
they have the same access to the same talent , the same agencies , the same consultants , the same media .	他們也能接觸到同樣的人才、同樣的機構、同樣的顧問、同樣的媒體 。
then why is it that they seem to have something different ?	那麼 , 為什麼它們似乎有些不同 ?
why is it that martin luther king led the civil rights movement ?	為什麼馬丁路德金主導了民權運動 ?
he wasn't the only man who suffered in a precivil rights america , and he certainly wasn't the only great orator of the day .	他不是唯一一個在美國受到驅逐前驅權的人 , 他肯定不是當時唯一的偉大演說家 。
and why is it that the wright brothers were able to figure out controlled , powered man flight when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified , better funded . . .	為什麼萊特兄弟能夠想出控制權、駕駛人飛機的原因 , 尤其是有其他團隊更有資格、更好的資金 。
and they didn't achieve powered man flight , and the wright brothers beat them to it .	他們沒有實現動力的飛行 , 萊特兄弟也打敗他們 。
there's something else at play here .	這裡還有其他的玩法 。
about three and a half years ago i made a discovery .	大約三年半前 , 我有了一項發現 。
and this discovery profoundly changed my view on how i thought the world worked , and it even profoundly changed the way in which i operate in it .	這個發現深深地改變了我對世界運作的看法 , 甚至深深地改變了我對它的運作方式 。
as it turns out , there's a pattern .	結果發現 , 有一個模式 。
as it turns out , all the great and inspiring leaders and organizations in the world whether it's apple or martin luther king or the wright brothers they all think , act and communicate the exact same way .	結果發現 , 世界上所有的偉大、鼓舞人心的領導者和組織 , 不論是蘋果、馬丁路德金恩、或是他們所有人認為的萊特兄弟 , 行為和溝通方式 。
and it's the complete opposite to everyone else .	它完全和其他人完全相反 。
all i did was codify it , and it's probably the world's simplest idea .	我所做的 , 就是將它編碼 , 可能是世界上最簡單的點子 。
i call it the golden circle .	我稱它為黃金圈 。
why ? how ? what ?	為什麼 ? 怎麼做 ? 什麼 ?
this little idea explains why some organizations and some leaders are able to inspire where others aren't .	這個小小的點子解釋了為什麼有些組織和一些領導者能夠激發出其他人不在的地方 。
let me define the terms really quickly .	讓我很快地定義這個詞 。
every single person , every single organization on the planet knows what they do , 100 percent .	每一個人 , 地球上每一個組織都知道自己在做什麼 , 百分之百 。
some know how they do it , whether you call it your differentiated value proposition or your proprietary process or your usp .	有些人知道如何做 , 不論你稱它為你有著不同的價值主張、你的屬性過程 , 或你的usp 。
but very , very few people or organizations know why they do what they do .	但很少很少人或機構知道為何他們會做自己做的事 。
and by " why " i don't mean " to make a profit . "	我所謂的 「 為什麼 」 並不是 「 創造利潤 」 的意思 。
that's a result . it's always a result .	這是結果 , 永遠是結果 。
by " why , " i mean: what's your purpose ?	我所謂的 「 為什麼 」 指的是:你的目的是什麼 ?
what's your cause ? what's your belief ?	你的起因是什麼 ? 你的信仰是什麼 ?
why does your organization exist ?	你的組織為什麼存在 ?
why do you get out of bed in the morning ?	你為什麼早上起床 ?
and why should anyone care ?	為什麼有人要在乎 ?
well , as a result , the way we think , the way we act , the way we communicate is from the outside in .	嗯 , 結果 , 我們思考的方式、行為的方式、我們溝通的方式 , 都來自外在 。
it's obvious . we go from the clearest thing to the fuzziest thing .	這很明顯 。 我們從最清楚的轉變到最模糊的東西 。
but the inspired leaders and the inspired organizations regardless of their size , regardless of their industry all think , act and communicate from the inside out .	但受到啟發的領導者和受到啟發的組織 , 不論他們的規模大小 , 不論他們的產業全都在思考 , 從內而外的行動和溝通 。
let me give you an example .	讓我舉個例子 。
i use apple because they're easy to understand and everybody gets it .	我使用蘋果 , 因為它很容易理解 , 每個人都懂 。
if apple were like everyone else , a marketing message from them might sound like this: " we make great computers .	如果蘋果和其他人一樣 , 蘋果的行銷訊息可能會像這樣: 「 我們製造出很棒的電腦 。
they're beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	它們設計得很漂亮 , 很簡單 , 很容易使用 , 很友善 。
want to buy one ? " " meh . "	想要買一台嗎 ? 』
and that's how most of us communicate .	這就是我們大多數人溝通的方式 。
that's how most marketing is done , that's how most sales is done and that's how most of us communicate interpersonally .	這就是大部份行銷的做法 , 大部份銷售的做法 , 大部份人和人之間的溝通方式 。
we say what we do , we say how we're different or how we're better and we expect some sort of a behavior , a purchase , a vote , something like that .	我們會說 , 我們的做法 , 我們會說 , 我們的做法不同 , 或說我們比較好 , 我們會期待某種行為、購買行為、投票 , 諸如此類 。
here's our new law firm: we have the best lawyers with the biggest clients , we always perform for our clients who do business with us .	這是我們的新法律事務所:我們有最好的律師和最大的客戶 , 我們總是為和我們一起做生意的客戶做表演 。
here's our new car: it gets great gas mileage , it has leather seats , buy our car .	這是我們的新車:它有很棒的氣體哩程數 , 有皮革座椅 , 買我們的車 。
here's how apple actually communicates .	蘋果的溝通方式如下 。
" everything we do , we believe in challenging the status quo .	「 我們所做的一切 , 我們相信挑戰現狀 。
we believe in thinking differently .	我們相信用不同的方式思考 。
the way we challenge the status quo is by making our products beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	我們挑戰現況的方式是把我們的產品設計得很漂亮 , 很簡單 , 很容易使用和使用者 。
we just happen to make great computers .	我們剛好製造出很棒的電腦 。
want to buy one ? "	想要買一台嗎 ? 」
totally different right ? you're ready to buy a computer from me .	完全不同的對吧 ? 你們準備好從我身上買一台電腦 。
all i did was reverse the order of the information .	我所做的只是反轉資訊的順序 。
what it proves to us is that people don't buy what you do ; people buy why you do it .	它告訴我們 , 人們不買你做什麼 ; 人們買你為什麼這麼做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼 。
this explains why every single person in this room is perfectly comfortable buying a computer from apple .	這解釋了為什麼在座的每一位都對購買蘋果電腦感到非常舒服 。
but we're also perfectly comfortable buying an mp3 player from apple , or a phone from apple , or a dvr from apple .	但我們也非常舒適地從蘋果電腦買下mp3播放器 , 或蘋果電腦的手機 , 或蘋果電腦的dvr 。
but , as i said before , apple's just a computer company .	但 , 如我之前所說 , 蘋果電腦只是一家電腦公司 。
there's nothing that distinguishes them structurally from any of their competitors .	沒有什麼能將他們與其競爭者的競爭者區別開來 。
their competitors are all equally qualified to make all of these products .	他們的競爭對手都同樣有能力做出這些產品 。
in fact , they tried .	事實上 , 他們試過了 。
a few years ago , gateway came out with flat screen tvs .	幾年前 , 閘道推出了平面電視螢幕 。
they're eminently qualified to make flat screen tvs .	他們很有資格做平面電視 。
they've been making flat screen monitors for years .	他們已經做平面螢幕好幾年了 。
dell came out with mp3 players and pdas , and they make great quality products , and they can make perfectly welldesigned products and nobody bought one .	戴爾來自mp3播放器和pdas , 他們製造了很棒的品質產品 , 他們可以做出完全設計良好的產品 , 沒有人買的 。
in fact , talking about it now , we can't even imagine buying an mp3 player from dell .	事實上 , 談到現在 , 我們甚至無法想像從戴爾維爾買一台mp3播放器 。
why would you buy an mp3 player from a computer company ?	你為什麼要從電腦公司買一台mp3播放器 ?
but we do it every day .	但我們每天都這樣做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼 。
the goal is not to do business with everybody who needs what you have .	目標不是要和你所需要的人做生意 。
the goal is to do business with people who believe what you believe .	目標是要和相信你所相信的人做生意 。
here's the best part: none of what i'm telling you is my opinion .	最棒的是:我告訴你們的都不是我的意見 。
it's all grounded in the tenets of biology .	全都以生物學的原理為基礎
not psychology , biology .	不是心理學、生物學 。
if you look at a crosssection of the human brain , looking from the top down , what you see is the human brain is actually broken into three major components that correlate perfectly with the golden circle .	如果你看看人腦的十字路口從上往下看 , 你看到的是人腦實際上分裂成三個主要元素 , 完美地與金色圓圈完美地相關 。
our newest brain , our homo sapien brain , our neocortex , corresponds with the " what " level .	我們最新的大腦 , 我們的智人 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的新皮層 , 對應到 「 什麼 」 的層次 。
the neocortex is responsible for all of our rational and analytical thought and language .	新皮質層負責我們所有的理性、分析的想法和語言 。
the middle two sections make up our limbic brains , and our limbic brains are responsible for all of our feelings , like trust and loyalty .	中間兩個部份構成我們的邊緣腦 , 而我們的邊緣腦負責我們所有的感受 , 例如信任和忠誠度 。
it's also responsible for all human behavior , all decisionmaking , and it has no capacity for language .	它同時也負責所有人類的行為 , 所有的決策 , 而且它沒有語言的能力 。
in other words , when we communicate from the outside in , yes , people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features and benefits and facts and figures .	換句話說 , 當我們從外在溝通時 , 是的 , 人們可以理解大量複雜的資訊 , 像是特色、好處、事實和數字 。
it just doesn't drive behavior .	只是它不會驅動行為 。
when we can communicate from the inside out , we're talking directly to the part of the brain that controls behavior , and then we allow people to rationalize it with the tangible things we say and do .	當我們能從內在溝通時 , 我們就直接和控制行為的大腦對話 , 然後我們讓人們去理化它 , 用我們所說和做的事情來合理化它 。
this is where gut decisions come from .	這是腸子決策的來源 。
you know , sometimes you can give somebody all the facts and figures , and they say , " i know what all the facts and details say , but it just doesn't feel right . "	有時 , 你可以給人所有的事實和數據 , 他們會說: 「 我知道這些事實和細節說了什麼 , 但感覺不對 。 」
why would we use that verb , it doesn't " feel " right ?	我們為什麼要用這個動詞 , 卻沒有 「 感覺 」 呢 ?
because the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking doesn't control language .	因為控制決策的大腦並不控制語言 。
and the best we can muster up is , " i don't know . it just doesn't feel right . "	我們最多能忍受的就是: 「 我不知道 , 感覺不對 。 」
or sometimes you say you're leading with your heart , or you're leading with your soul .	或者 , 有時你說你在帶著你的心 , 或者你在帶著你的靈魂領導 。
well , i hate to break it to you , those aren't other body parts controlling your behavior .	嗯 , 我很不想打破它 , 那些不是身體其他部位控制你的行為 。
it's all happening here in your limbic brain , the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking and not language .	這一切都發生在你的大腦邊緣 , 控制決策 , 而非語言的部分 。
but if you don't know why you do what you do , and people respond to why you do what you do , then how will you ever get people to vote for you , or buy something from you , or , more importantly , be loyal and want to be a part of what it is that you do .	但如果你不知道為什麼你要做你所做的事 , 人們會回應為什麼你要做你該做的事 , 那麼你要如何讓人們為你投票 , 或從你身上買點東西 , 或者 , 更重要的是 , 忠誠的 , 想要成為你所做的一部份 。
again , the goal is not just to sell to people who need what you have ; the goal is to sell to people who believe what you believe .	再一次 , 目標不只是要賣給需要你所擁有的人 , 目標是要賣給那些相信你所相信的人們 。
the goal is not just to hire people who need a job ; it's to hire people who believe what you believe .	目標不只是要雇用需要工作的人 , 而是要雇用那些相信你所相信的事的人 。
i always say that , you know , if you hire people just because they can do a job , they'll work for your money , but if you hire people who believe what you believe , they'll work for you with blood and sweat and tears .	我總是說 , 如果你雇用員工 , 只因為他們能做一份工作 , 他們會為了你的錢而工作 , 但如果你雇用那些相信你所相信的人們 , 他們會用血、汗和淚水幫你工作 。
and nowhere else is there a better example of this than with the wright brothers .	沒有比萊特兄弟更好的例子了 。
most people don't know about samuel pierpont langley .	大部分人不知道samuelpierpontlangley
and back in the early 20th century , the pursuit of powered man flight was like the dot com of the day .	在20世紀早期 , 追求人類飛行的力量 , 就像當時的網路公司一樣 。
everybody was trying it .	每個人都在試 。
and samuel pierpont langley had , what we assume , to be the recipe for success .	samuelpierpontlangley有的 , 我們假設是成功的食譜 。
i mean , even now , you ask people , " why did your product or why did your company fail ? "	我是說 , 就算是現在 , 你問人: 「 為什麼你的產品 ? 或為什麼你的公司會失敗 ? 」
and people always give you the same permutation of the same three things: undercapitalized , the wrong people , bad market conditions .	人們總是會給你同樣的看法 , 同樣的三件事:不受控制、不對的人、不好的市場狀況 。
it's always the same three things , so let's explore that .	永遠都是同樣的三件事 , 所以讓我們來探究一下 。
samuel pierpont langley was given 50 , 000 dollars by the war department to figure out this flying machine .	samuelpierpontlangley獲得了五萬美元的獎金 , 由戰爭部門提供 , 來找出這架飛行機器 。
money was no problem .	金錢也沒有問題 。
he held a seat at harvard and worked at the smithsonian and was extremely wellconnected ; he knew all the big minds of the day .	他在哈佛任職 , 在史密斯尼任職 , 和當時的所有大型人物都非常相連 。
he hired the best minds money could find and the market conditions were fantastic .	他雇用了最好的心態 , 找到了最好的心態 , 市場環境非常美妙 。
the new york times followed him around everywhere , and everyone was rooting for langley .	紐約時報跟著他到處跑 , 每個人都在為langley加油 。
then how come we've never heard of samuel pierpont langley ?	那麼為什麼我們從來沒有聽過samuelpierpontlangley ?
a few hundred miles away in dayton ohio , orville and wilbur wright , they had none of what we consider to be the recipe for success .	幾百英里遠在幾百英里外的俄羅斯 , 歐維爾和威爾伯萊特 , 他們沒有我們認為的成功的秘方 。
they had no money ; they paid for their dream with the proceeds from their bicycle shop ; not a single person on the wright brothers' team had a college education , not even orville or wilbur ; and the new york times followed them around nowhere .	他們沒有錢 , 他們付錢給他們的夢想和他們自行車店的收入 ; 萊特兄弟的團隊沒有一個人受過大學教育 , 連歐維爾或威爾布爾都沒有 ; 紐約時報也沒有在任何地方追隨他們 。
the difference was , orville and wilbur were driven by a cause , by a purpose , by a belief .	差別在於 , 歐維爾和威爾布爾布爾都是由一個原因所驅使 , 一個目的 , 一個信念 。
they believed that if they could figure out this flying machine , it'll change the course of the world .	他們相信 , 如果他們能想出這架飛行機器 , 就會改變世界的軌跡 。
samuel pierpont langley was different .	samuelpierpontlangley不同 。
he wanted to be rich , and he wanted to be famous .	他想要有錢 , 他想要成名 。
he was in pursuit of the result .	他在追求結果 。
he was in pursuit of the riches .	他在追求財富 。
and lo and behold , look what happened .	你看 , 看看發生了什麼事 。
the people who believed in the wright brothers' dream worked with them with blood and sweat and tears .	相信萊特兄弟的夢想的人 , 和他們一起工作 , 用血、汗水和淚水 。
the others just worked for the paycheck .	其他人則是為了付出而工作 。
and they tell stories of how every time the wright brothers went out , they would have to take five sets of parts , because that's how many times they would crash before they came in for supper .	他們會說故事 , 每當萊特兄弟出去 , 他們就得拿出五組零件 , 因為那是他們吃晚飯前的幾倍 。
and , eventually , on december 17th , 1903 , the wright brothers took flight , and no one was there to even experience it .	最終 , 在1903年12月17日 , 萊特兄弟起飛 , 沒有人去體驗它 。
we found out about it a few days later .	幾天後 , 我們發現了這件事 。
and further proof that langley was motivated by the wrong thing: the day the wright brothers took flight , he quit .	更進一步的證明langley的動機是錯誤的:萊特兄弟起飛的那天 , 他辭職了 。
he could have said , " that's an amazing discovery , guys , and i will improve upon your technology , " but he didn't .	他可以說: 「 那是個驚人的發現 , 各位 , 我會改進你的科技 。 」 但他沒有 。
he wasn't first , he didn't get rich , he didn't get famous so he quit .	他不是第一 , 他沒有變有錢 , 他沒有變有名 , 所以他辭掉了 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼 。
and if you talk about what you believe , you will attract those who believe what you believe .	如果你談論你所相信的 , 你就會吸引那些相信你所相信的人們 。
but why is it important to attract those who believe what you believe ?	但為什麼吸引那些相信你所相信的人們是很重要的 ?
something called the law of diffusion of innovation , and if you don't know the law , you definitely know the terminology .	所謂的創意散播法則 , 如果你不懂法律 , 你一定知道這個術語 。
the first two and a half percent of our population are our innovators .	最前面2.5%的人口是我們的創新者 。
the next 13 and a half percent of our population are our early adopters .	接下來的13.5%的人是我們早期的採用者 。
the next 34 percent are your early majority , your late majority and your laggards .	接下來的34%是早期的大多數 , 是晚期的大多數 , 晚期的大多數和晚期的笑聲 。
the only reason these people buy touch tone phones is because you can't buy rotary phones anymore .	人們買豆腐手機的唯一原因 , 是因為你不能再買腐爛的手機了 。
we all sit at various places at various times on this scale , but what the law of diffusion of innovation tells us is that if you want massmarket success or massmarket acceptance of an idea , you cannot have it until you achieve this tipping point between 15 and 18 percent market penetration , and then the system tips .	我們都在這個尺度上不同時間坐著 , 但創新的擴散法則告訴我們 , 如果你想要大眾市場成功或大眾市場接受一個點子 , 你不可能擁有它 , 直到你達成了15%到18%市場市場的頂點 , 再來是系統的尖端 。
and i love asking businesses , " what's your conversion on new business ? "	我喜歡問企業: 「 你對新企業的轉變是什麼 ? 」
and they love to tell you , " oh , it's about 10 percent , " proudly .	他們很喜歡跟你說: 「 喔 , 大概10%吧 。 」 很驕傲 。
well , you can trip over 10 percent of the customers .	嗯 , 你可以去掉超過10%的顧客 。
we all have about 10 percent who just " get it . "	只有百分之十的人 「 了解它 」 。
that's how we describe them , right ?	這是我們如何描述它們的 , 對吧 ?
that's like that gut feeling , " oh , they just get it . "	就像那種直覺的感覺: 「 喔 , 他們就是懂了 。 」
the problem is: how do you find the ones that get it before you're doing business with them versus the ones who don't get it ?	問題是:你要如何找到那些在你和他們做生意之前取得它的人 , 而不是那些沒有得到它的人 ?
so it's this here , this little gap that you have to close , as jeffrey moore calls it , " crossing the chasm " because , you see , the early majority will not try something until someone else has tried it first .	就是這裡 , 這個小小的差距 , 正如jeffreymoore稱之為 「 跨越隔閡 」 , 因為 , 大多數人在一開始就嘗試過它 。
and these guys , the innovators and the early adopters , they're comfortable making those gut decisions .	這些人 , 創新者 , 以及早期採用者 , 他們都很自在地做出這些破壞性的決定 。
they're more comfortable making those intuitive decisions that are driven by what they believe about the world and not just what product is available .	他們會比較自在地做出那些直覺的決定 , 被他們對世界的信念所驅使 , 而不只是產品能取得的 。
these are the people who stood in line for six hours to buy an iphone when they first came out , when you could have just walked into the store the next week and bought one off the shelf .	這些人排了六個小時才買了一支iphone , 剛剛出櫃的時候 , 可以在下週走進商店買了一支架 。
these are the people who spent 40 , 000 dollars on flat screen tvs when they first came out , even though the technology was substandard .	這些人一開始就花了四萬美元在平坦的螢幕上 , 儘管科技是潛在的 。
and , by the way , they didn't do it because the technology was so great ; they did it for themselves .	順帶一提 , 他們沒有這樣做是因為這項技術很棒 , 他們是為了自己而做的 。
it's because they wanted to be first .	這是因為他們想要成為第一 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it and what you do simply proves what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼 , 和你所做的 , 只是證明了你所相信的 。
in fact , people will do the things that prove what they believe .	事實上 , 人們會做那些證明他們所相信的事 。
the reason that person bought the iphone in the first six hours , stood in line for six hours , was because of what they believed about the world , and how they wanted everybody to see them: they were first .	人們買iphone的原因 , 在最初的六小時內 , 排隊排了六個小時 , 是因為他們相信這個世界 , 以及他們希望每個人看到他們的方式:他們是第一 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼 。
so let me give you a famous example , a famous failure and a famous success of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我給你一個很有名的例子 , 一個有名的失敗 , 和一個有名的成功案例 , 關於創新的散播法則 。
first , the famous failure .	第一 , 著名的失敗 。
it's a commercial example .	這是個商業性的例子 。
as we said before , a second ago , the recipe for success is money and the right people and the right market conditions , right ? you should have success then .	正如我們之前所說的 , 第二個成功的做法是錢、對的人、對的市場環境 , 對嗎 ? 你應該要有成功的做法 。
from the time tivo came out about eight or nine years ago to this current day , they are the single highestquality product on the market , hands down , there is no dispute .	大約八、九年前 , tivo上市時 , 至今 , 他們是市場上最高品質的產品 , 親手執行 , 沒有爭議 。
they were extremely wellfunded .	他們的資金非常好 。
market conditions were fantastic .	市場環境很美妙 。
i mean , we use tivo as verb .	我的意思是 , 我們把tivo當作動詞 。
i tivo stuff on my piece of junk time warner dvr all the time .	我總是把東西綁在我的垃圾時間華納的dvr上 。
but tivo's a commercial failure .	但tivo卻失敗了 。
they've never made money .	他們從來沒有賺過錢 。
and when they went ipo , their stock was at about 30 or 40 dollars and then plummeted , and it's never traded above 10 .	當他們到ipo時 , 他們的股票價格大約是30或40美元 , 然後價格下跌 , 從未超過10美元 。
in fact , i don't think it's even traded above six , except for a couple of little spikes .	事實上 , 我不認為它比六個高度的交易 , 除了幾個小突起以外 。
because you see , when tivo launched their product they told us all what they had .	因為你知道 , 當tivo推出他們的產品時 , 他們告訴我們他們擁有的是什麼 。
they said , " we have a product that pauses live tv , skips commercials , rewinds live tv and memorizes your viewing habits without you even asking . "	他們說: 「 我們有一種能暫停現場電視的產品 , 跳過商業廣告 , 重新現場電視 , 把你的觀看習慣記住 , 連問都沒有 。 」
and the cynical majority said , " we don't believe you .	憤世嫉俗的多數人說: 「 我們不相信你 。
we don't need it . we don't like it .	我們不需要它 , 我們不喜歡它 。
you're scaring us . "	你在害怕我們 。 」
what if they had said , " if you're the kind of person who likes to have total control over every aspect of your life , boy , do we have a product for you .	如果他們說: 「 如果你是那種想要完全掌控你生活各個層面的人 , 那麼 , 我們有一項產品給你 。
it pauses live tv , skips commercials , memorizes your viewing habits , etc . , etc . "	它會暫停直播、跳過商業廣告、記住你的看法習慣、等等 。 」
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it , and what you do simply serves as the proof of what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼做 , 而你所做的只是證明你所相信的 。
now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我給各位一個成功的例子 , 關於創新的散播法則 。
in the summer of 1963 , 250 , 000 people showed up on the mall in washington to hear dr . king speak .	1963年夏天 , 25萬人出現在華盛頓的商場上 , 聆聽金恩博士的演講 。
they sent out no invitations , and there was no website to check the date .	他們沒有寄出任何邀請函 , 也沒有網站來查看日期 。
how do you do that ?	要怎麼做呢 ?
well , dr . king wasn't the only man in america who was a great orator .	金恩博士不是美國唯一一個偉大的演說家
he wasn't the only man in america who suffered in a precivil rights america .	他不是美國唯一一個在美國遭受公民權利之前的男人 。
in fact , some of his ideas were bad .	事實上 , 他的一些點子很糟 。
but he had a gift .	但他有一個禮物 。
he didn't go around telling people what needed to change in america .	他沒有四處告訴人們美國需要什麼改變 。
he went around and told people what he believed .	他四處告訴人們他所相信的
" i believe , i believe , i believe , " he told people .	「 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 。 」 他告訴人們 。
and people who believed what he believed took his cause , and they made it their own , and they told people .	相信他所相信的人們採取了他的理由 , 使這成為了自己的理由 , 他們告訴人們 。
and some of those people created structures to get the word out to even more people .	其中一些人創造了結構 , 讓更多人知道答案 。
and lo and behold , 250 , 000 people showed up on the right day at the right time to hear him speak .	各位看 , 25 , 000人在對的日子裡 , 能夠聽到他說話的聲音 。
how many of them showed up for him ?	有多少人因此而出現 ?
they showed up for themselves .	他們為自己出席 。
it's what they believed about america that got them to travel in a bus for eight hours to stand in the sun in washington in the middle of august .	他們相信美國讓他們在公車上旅行了八個小時 , 在八月中 , 站在華盛頓的陽光下 。
it's what they believed , and it wasn't about black versus white: 25 percent of the audience was white .	這是他們所相信的 , 重點不是黑人和白人:25%的觀眾是白人 。
dr . king believed that there are two types of laws in this world: those that are made by a higher authority and those that are made by man .	金恩博士相信在這個世界上有兩種類型的法律:那些由較高權威人士所制定的法律 , 那些由人類所制定的法律 。
and not until all the laws that are made by man are consistent with the laws that are made by the higher authority will we live in a just world .	直到所有人類定律的定律都和權威制定的定律一致 , 直到所有人類定律的定律都存在於一個公平的世界裡 。
it just so happened that the civil rights movement was the perfect thing to help him bring his cause to life .	剛好公民權利運動正是幫助他生命的最佳成因 。
we followed , not for him , but for ourselves .	我們追隨 , 不是為了他 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and , by the way , he gave the " i have a dream " speech , not the " i have a plan " speech .	順帶一提 , 他給了我一個 「 我有一個夢想 」 演講 , 而不是 「 我有一個計畫 」 的演講 。
listen to politicians now , with their comprehensive 12point plans .	聽現在的政治人物 , 有他們全面的12點計畫 。
they're not inspiring anybody .	他們沒有啟發任何人 。
because there are leaders and there are those who lead .	因為有領導者 , 有領導者 。
leaders hold a position of power or authority , but those who lead inspire us .	領導者持有權力或權威的位置 , 但那些領導的人啟發了我們 。
whether they're individuals or organizations , we follow those who lead , not because we have to , but because we want to .	不論是個人或組織 , 我們都追隨那些領導者 , 不是因為我們必須 , 而是因為我們想要 。
we follow those who lead , not for them , but for ourselves .	我們跟隨那些領導的人 , 不是為了他們 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and it's those who start with " why " that have the ability to inspire those around them or find others who inspire them .	那些從 「 為什麼 」 開始的人 , 有能力啟發他們周圍的人 , 或找到鼓舞他們的人 。
how do you remember where you parked your car ? how do you know if you're moving in the right direction ? neuroscientist neil burgess studies the neural mechanisms that map the space around us , and how they link to memory and imagination .	你要怎麼記住你車子停在哪裡 ? 你怎麼知道你正朝著正確的方向前進 ? 神經科學家尼爾負責研究周圍的神經機制 , 及它們如何連結到記憶和想像力 。
brain , cognitive science , exploration , neuroscience , science	大腦、認知科學、探索、神經科學、科學 。
neil burgess: how your brain tells you where you are	尼爾•伯格斯:你的大腦如何告訴你你在哪裡 。
when we park in a big parking lot , how do we remember where we parked our car ?	當我們停在一個很大的停車場 , 我們要如何記住我們停車位的位置 ?
here's the problem facing homer .	以下是主角面臨的問題 。
and we're going to try to understand what's happening in his brain .	我們將會試著去了解他的大腦到底發生了什麼事 。
so we'll start with the hippocampus , shown in yellow , which is the organ of memory .	我們先從海馬體開始 , 黃色標示 , 也就是記憶的器官 。
if you have damage there , like in alzheimer's , you can't remember things including where you parked your car .	如果你有像阿茲海默症一樣的損害 , 你記不得東西 , 包括你把車子停在哪裡 。
it's named after latin for " seahorse , " which it resembles .	它的名字是以拉丁文命名的 「 海馬體 」 , 相似之處 。
and like the rest of the brain , it's made of neurons .	就像大腦的其他部分一樣 , 它是由神經元所組成的 。
so the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it .	人腦內有大約一千億個神經元 。
and the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other .	神經元藉由發送小脈衝或刺激的電流相互交流
the hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells , which are very densely interconnected .	海馬體是由兩片細胞組成 , 非常密切的相互連結 。
and scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food .	科學家開始了解空間記憶是如何運作的 , 藉由記錄老鼠在覓食時的個別神經元或老鼠的覓食環境 , 記錄牠們覓食的環境 。
so we're going to imagine we're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here .	想像一下 , 我們從這隻老鼠海馬體內的單一個神經元記錄下來 。
and when it fires a little spike of electricity , there's going to be a red dot and a click .	當它發出一小部份的電力時 , 會有一個紅點和一個點 。
so what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment .	我們發現這個神經元知道當老鼠進入某個特定的環境時 , 就會知道這個神經元 。
and it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike .	藉由發送電刺激訊號到大腦的其他部位 , 訊號傳送到大腦的其他部位 。
so we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal's location .	我們可以把神經元的發射速度看作是動物所在位置的函數 。
and if we record from lots of different neurons , we'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment , like in this square box shown here .	如果我們記錄許多不同的神經元 , 就會發現當動物進入其周圍的不同區域時 , 不同的神經被激發 , 就像這個方形的盒子裡的一樣 。
so together they form a map for the rest of the brain , telling the brain continually , " where am i now within my environment ? "	所以他們一起為大腦的其餘部分建立了一張地圖 , 持續地告訴大腦: 「 我現在在我的環境裡 ? 」
place cells are also being recorded in humans .	位置細胞也被記錄在人類身上 。
so epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring .	癲癇患者有時會需要大腦監控的電活動 。
and some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town .	有些病人玩過電玩遊戲 , 讓他們在小鎮附近開車 。
and place cells in their hippocampi would fire , become active , start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town .	海馬體內的位置細胞會開始活躍 , 開始發送電脈衝 , 只要他們開車經過一個特定的位置 , 就會開始發送電脈衝 。
so how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment ?	那麼 , 一個位置細胞怎麼知道老鼠或人在其環境中的位置呢 ?
well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important .	這兩個細胞告訴我們 , 環境的界限特別重要 。
so the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat's in .	最上方的這一隻 , 喜歡在老鼠的箱子中間發射某種中間的火焰 。
and when you expand the box , the firing location expands .	當你把盒子放大 , 激發地點就會擴大 。
the one below likes to fire whenever there's a wall close by to the south .	下面的這一塊會發出一道火 , 只要有一面牆 , 就會在南方靠近 。
and if you put another wall inside the box , then the cell fires in both place wherever there's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box .	如果你把另外一面牆放進盒子裡 , 細胞就會被激發 , 不管在哪裡 , 只要有一面牆到南方 , 動物就會在盒子裡探索 。
so this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you extended buildings and so on is particularly important for the hippocampus .	所以這可以預測 , 感應你周圍的界限和邊界的距離等等 , 對海馬體來說尤其重要 。
and indeed , on the inputs to the hippocampus , cells are found which project into the hippocampus , which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it's exploring around .	的確 , 輸入海馬體的細胞 , 會在海馬體中發現哪些細胞 , 會對偵測到界限或邊緣有反應 , 尤其是當老鼠在四處移動時 , 偵測到邊界或邊緣 。
so the cell on the left , you can see , it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east , whether it's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table , which the animals are running around .	左邊的細胞 , 你可以看到 , 當這些動物靠近牆壁時 , 或沿著東邊的邊界時 , 不論是方形盒子的邊緣或圓形的邊緣 , 甚至是圓形的邊緣 , 動物就會在桌子上移動 。
and the cell on the right there fires whenever there's a boundary to the south , whether it's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart .	右邊的細胞在每當南方有界限時就會被激發 , 不論是在桌子或牆壁的下方 , 甚至是兩張桌子間隔開的距離 。
so that's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it's exploring around .	這是一種我們認為位置細胞會決定動物在四處探索的位置 。
we can also test where we think objects are , like this goal flag , in simple environments or indeed , where your car would be .	我們也可以測試我們認為物體在哪裡 , 例如這個目標 , 在簡單的環境中 , 或者 , 你的車子在哪裡 。
so we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember .	所以 , 我們可以讓人們去探索一個環境 , 去看他們所記得的位置 。
and then , if we put them back in the environment , generally they're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was .	然後 , 如果我們把它們放回環境中 , 一般來說 , 它們非常擅長把標誌放到他們認為旗幟或車子的位置 。
but on some trials , we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell .	但在某些試驗中 , 我們能改變環境的形狀和大小 , 如同我們在位置細胞上所做的一樣 。
in that case , we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment .	在這個案例中 , 我們可以看到他們認為旗幟的位置是如何被改變 , 就像是你如何改變環境的形狀和大小一樣 。
and what you see , for example , if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment , and then if you ask people where it was , but you've made the environment bigger , where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out .	例如 , 你所看到的 , 如果國旗是在一個小方形的環境中 , 交叉處的位置 , 那麼如果你問人們在哪裡 , 但是你讓環境變得更大 , 他們認為國旗是從哪裡延伸出來的 , 和位置細胞被激發的位置完全相同 。
it's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location , and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern .	這就好像你還記得國旗的所在地 , 透過儲存你所有的位置細胞的模式 , 你可以藉由四處走動 , 找到那個位置 , 這樣你就可以找到最好的位置 , 找到目前儲存的位置細胞被激發的模式 。
that guides you back to the location that you want to remember .	這會引導你回到你想要記得的地點 。
but we also know where we are through movement .	但我們也知道我們的動作在哪裡 。
so if we take some outbound path perhaps we park and we wander off we know because our own movements , which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back .	所以 , 如果我們採取一些開放的路徑也許停下來 , 我們就會知道 , 因為我們自己的動作 , 我們可以大致上整合這條路徑 , 前進的方向 。
and place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell .	位置細胞也會得到這種路徑整合的訊號 , 來自一種細胞 , 叫做網格細胞 。
now grid cells are found , again , on the inputs to the hippocampus , and they're a bit like place cells .	網格細胞在海馬體輸入的輸入中也發現了它們有點像位置細胞
but now as the rat explores around , each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid .	但當老鼠四處移動時 , 每個單獨的細胞在一系列不同的地點被激發 , 存在於一個令人驚異的三角形網格中 。
and if you record from several grid cells shown here in different colors each one has a gridlike firing pattern across the environment , and each cell's gridlike firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells .	如果你用不同的顏色來記錄這裡的數個格子細胞 , 就會有類似電網圖案 , 橫越整個環境 , 每一個細胞的網格狀會稍微改變 , 移向其他細胞 。
so the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one .	紅色的會在這個格子上發動 , 綠色的會在這個格子上藍色的 。
so together , it's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you'd find on a map , but using triangles .	總而言之 , 這就像老鼠能夠在整個環境中穿梭一個虛擬的地點 , 有點像是地圖上找到的緯度和長距線 , 只是用三角形 。
and as it moves around , the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is , so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment .	當它四處移動時 , 電子活動可以從其中一個細胞傳到下一個細胞 , 來追蹤它所在的位置 , 這樣它就可以用它自己的動作去知道它在環境中的位置 。
do people have grid cells ?	人們有網格細胞嗎 ?
well because all of the gridlike firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry , the same orientations of grid , shown in orange here , it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between .	正因為所有類似激發模式的網格結構都有相同的對稱軸 , 在這裡以橘色標出的方向 , 代表所有的網格活動 , 尤其是大腦中所有網格細胞的網格活動 , 都應該要根據我們在六個方向之間運轉的位置來改變 。
so we can put people in an mri scanner and have them do a little video game like the one i showed you and look for this signal .	所以我們可以把人放到核磁共振儀裡 , 讓他們做一個像我展示給你們看的電玩遊戲 , 來尋找這個信號 。
and indeed , you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex , which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats .	的確 , 你可以在人腦內看到它 , 就像是老鼠的網格細胞一樣 。
so back to homer .	回到荷馬 。
he's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked .	他可能想起他的車子從距離和方向來的位置延伸出建築物和界限在他停車的地方
and that would be represented by the firing of boundarydetecting cells .	這是由邊界偵測細胞的發射所代表的 。
he's also remembering the path he took out of the car park , which would be represented in the firing of grid cells .	他還記得他從汽車公園走出的路徑 , 位在電網公園內的路線 。
now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire .	這兩種細胞都可以讓位置細胞被激發 。
and he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car .	他可以藉由移動來找出目前在他停車位位置的位置找到最好的位置位置細胞的發射模式與目前停車位的儲存模式進行配對
and that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car's actually there .	這會引導他回到那個位置 , 不考慮視覺線索 , 例如他的車子是否真的在那兒 。
maybe it's been towed .	也許它已經被吹倒了 。
but he knows where it was , so he knows to go and get it .	但他知道它在哪裡 , 所以他知道要去抓它 。
so beyond spatial memory , if we look for this gridlike firing pattern throughout the whole brain , we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks , like remembering the last time you went to a wedding , for example .	除了空間記憶以外 , 如果我們觀察整個大腦內的這些網狀的激發模式 , 就會在一系列的位置上看到它 , 當我們在做各種自動傳記工作時 , 像是記得上次參加婚禮時 , 記得會發生什麼事 。
so it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene , at least , of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them .	可能是神經機制代表我們周圍的空間 , 也被用來產生視覺影像 , 這樣我們才能重現空間的場景 , 至少 , 想像當我們想要想像時 , 發生在我們身上的事件 。
so if this was happening , your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint .	所以如果這正在發生 , 你的記憶可以從位置細胞開始藉由密度相互作用 , 藉由激活邊界細胞 , 來創造出你觀點周圍的空間結構 。
and grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space .	網格細胞可以在這個空間中移動這個視點 。
another kind of cell , head direction cells , which i didn't mention yet , they fire like a compass according to which way you're facing .	另外一種我還沒提到的細胞 , 頭部方向細胞 , 它們就像是指南針一樣 , 依照你所面對的方向 。
they could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery , so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding , for example .	他們可以定義你的視覺影像的方向 , 例如 , 當你在婚禮上的時候 , 可以想像你在婚禮上所發生的事 。
so this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains .	這只是一個新時代的例子 , 真的是在認知神經科學中 , 我們開始了解心理學的過程 , 例如你如何記得、想像 , 甚至想想數十億個獨立的神經元的行為 , 來決定我們的大腦 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
imagine a global security driven by collaboration among agencies , government , the private sector and the public . that's not just the distant hope of opensource fans , it's the vision of james stavridis , the supreme commander of nato , who shares vivid moments from recent military history to explain why security of the future should be built with bridges rather than walls .	想像一個全球安全機關合作的全球安全 , 由機構、政府機構、私人部門和大眾合作所驅使 。 這不僅僅是開放原始碼的粉絲 , 而是jamesstaravridis的遠景 , 北約的終極指揮官 , 他們在近期的軍隊中 , 共同對未來安全的理由 , 來解釋為什麼未來應該建造橋樑而不是牆 。
collaboration , global issues , opensource , peace , politics , social media , violence , war	合作、全球議題、開放資源、和平、政治、社交媒體、暴力、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭 。
james stavridis: how nato's supreme commander thinks about global security	詹姆斯•史塔維迪斯:北約的最高指揮官如何看待全球安全問題 。
i'm gonna talk a little bit about opensource security , because we've got to get better at security in this 21st century .	我要談的是開放原始碼的安全性 , 因為在21世紀 , 我們的安全性已經變得更好了 。
let me start by saying , let's look back to the 20th century , and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us .	首先 , 讓我們回顧一下20世紀 , 了解一下這種安全方式對我們的安全是如何運作的 。
this is verdun , a battlefield in france just north of the nato headquarters in belgium .	這是verdun , 法國的戰場 , 位於北約在比利時總部的北方 。
at verdun , in 1916 , over a 300day period , 700 , 000 people were killed , so about 2 , 000 a day .	1916年 , 在verdun , 1916年 , 超過300天 , 70萬人被殺 , 所以一天有2 , 000人被殺 。
if you roll it forward 20thcentury security into the second world war , you see the battle of stalingrad , 300 days , 2 million people killed .	如果你把它向前推進20世紀的安全性到第二次世界大戰 , 你會看到斯大林格勒的戰鬥 , 300天 , 有2百萬人死亡 。
we go into the cold war , and we continue to try and build walls .	我們進入冷戰 , 繼續建造牆壁 。
we go from the trench warfare of the first world war to the maginot line of the second world war , and then we go into the cold war , the iron curtain , the berlin wall .	我們從第一次世界大戰的壕溝 , 到第二次世界大戰的馬其頓路線 , 然後進入冷戰 , 鐵幕 , 柏林牆 。
my thesis for us today is , instead of building walls to create security , we need to build bridges .	我今天的論點是 , 不是建造牆壁來創造安全 , 而是建造橋樑 。
this is a famous bridge in europe .	這是歐洲一座有名的橋 。
it's the bridge over the drina river , the subject of a novel by ivo andrić , and it talks about how , in that very troubled part of europe and the balkans , over time there's been enormous building of walls .	它是沿著dina河流的橋樑 , 伊伏里克的小說主題 , 它談到如何在歐洲和巴爾幹地區 , 經過一段時間 , 歐洲和巴爾幹半島的巨大建牆壁 。
more recently , in the last decade , we begin to see these communities start , hesitatingly , to come together .	最近 , 在過去的十年裡 , 我們開始看到這些社區的起步 , 非常猶豫地團結在一起 。
i would argue , again , opensource security is about connecting the international , the interagency , the privatepublic , and lashing it together with strategic communication , largely in social networks .	我想再次強調 , 開放資源的安全性就是將國際的 , 跨部門的 , 私人的通訊 , 和在社交網路上的大多聯繫在一起 。
so let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that , because our global commons is under attack in a variety of ways , and none of the sources of threat to the global commons will be solved by building walls .	讓我來談談為什麼我們需要這麼做 , 因為我們的全球公有物受到各種各樣的攻擊 , 沒有威脅到全球公有物的來源可以用牆壁來解決 。
now , i'm a sailor , obviously .	顯然 , 我是水手 。
this is a ship , a liner , clipping through the indian ocean .	這是一艘船 , 排隊 , 穿過印度洋 。
what's wrong with this picture ?	這張照片有什麼問題嗎 ?
it's got concertina wire along the sides of it .	在它的一邊 , 音樂廳有一條鋼絲 。
that's to prevent pirates from attacking it .	防止海盜攻擊海盜 。
piracy is a very active threat today around the world . this is in the indian ocean .	海盜是現今在世界範圍內非常活躍的威脅 。 這是在印度洋 。
piracy is also very active in the strait of malacca .	海盜也在馬拉克的海峽非常活躍 。
it's active in the gulf of guinea .	它在幾內亞灣很活躍 。
we see it in the caribbean .	我們在加勒比海看到 。
it's a $10billionayear discontinuity in the global transport system .	這是全球運輸系統價值十億美元的損失 。
last year , at this time , there were 20 vessels , 500 mariners held hostage .	去年 , 當時有20艘船 , 500名海軍陸戰隊持有人質 。
this is an attack on the global commons .	這是對全球公有物的攻擊 。
we need to think about how to address it .	我們需要考慮如何解決這個問題 。
let's shift to a different kind of sea , the cyber sea .	讓我們轉移到另一種海洋 , 網路大海 。
here are photographs of two young men .	這是兩個年輕人的照片 。
at the moment , they're incarcerated .	此時 , 他們被監禁了 。
they conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars .	他們做了一個信用卡詐騙案 , 當中有超過一百億美元 。
this is part of cybercrime which is a $2trillionayear discontinuity in the global economy .	這是網路犯罪的一部分 , 是全球經濟2兆年的不連續性 。
two trillion a year .	一年有兩兆 。
that's just under the gdp of great britain .	這只不過是英國的國內生產總值 。
so this cyber sea , which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness , is very much under threat as well .	所以這個網路的大海 , 我們無止盡地知道這個網路開放是最根本的 , 在威脅之下也是如此 。
another thing i worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking , by the movement of narcotics , opium , here coming out of afghanistan through europe over to the united states .	我在全球公有物中擔憂的另一件事 , 是人口販賣所造成的威脅 , 由毒品、鴉片等毒品的運動所造成的威脅 , 從阿富汗穿過歐洲到美國 。
we worry about cocaine coming from the andean ridge north .	我們擔心從andeanridge北方來的古柯鹼 。
we worry about the movement of illegal weapons and trafficking . above all , perhaps , we worry about human trafficking , and the awful cost of it .	我們擔心非法武器的運輸 。 最重要的是 , 我們擔心人口販賣 , 以及它的成本 。
trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons .	人口販賣主要在海上移動 , 但在全球公有物的其它部分 。
this is a photograph , and i wish i could tell you that this is a very hightech piece of us navy gear that we're using to stop the trafficking .	這是一張照片 , 我希望我能告訴你 , 這是非常高科技的美國海軍裝備 , 我們用它來阻止人口販運 。
the bad news is , this is a semisubmersible run by drug cartels .	壞消息是 , 這是一個販毒集團的半潛水服 。
it was built in the jungles of south america .	它是在南美叢林裡建造的 。
we caught it with that lowtech raft — — and it was carrying six tons of cocaine .	我們用低科技的木筏逮捕了它它 , 它帶著六噸的古柯鹼 。
crew of four . sophisticated communications sweep .	四人組成 , 精密的傳播溝通掃描 。
this kind of trafficking , in narcotics , in humans , in weapons , god forbid , in weapons of mass destruction , is part of the threat to the global commons .	這種運輸 , 在人、在人、在武器 , 上帝禁止使用大規模毀滅性武器 , 是威脅全球公有物的一部分 。
and let's pull it together in afghanistan today .	讓我們在今天的阿富汗將它統一起來 。
this is a field of poppies in afghanistan .	這是在阿富汗的一片土地 。
eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppy , opium and heroin , comes out of afghanistan .	世界上百分之八十到九十的狗大便鴉片和海洛因來自阿富汗
we also see there , of course , terrorism .	當然 , 我們也看到了恐怖主義 。
this is where al qaeda is staged from .	這是基地組織的由來 。
we also see a very strong insurgency embedded there .	我們也看到一個非常強烈的暴動在那裏 。
so this terrorism concern is also part of the global commons , and what we must address .	所以 , 這種恐怖主義的擔憂也是全球公有物的一部分 , 我們必須解決的問題 。
so here we are , 21st century .	所以 , 這裡是21世紀 。
we know our 20thcentury tools are not going to work .	我們知道二十世紀的工具行不通 。
what should we do ?	我們該怎麼辦 ?
i would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我想說的是 , 我們不會只從槍筒的桶子裡外送安全 。
we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我們不會僅僅靠槍支的桶子來遞送安全 。
we will need the application of military force .	我們需要軍事力量的應用 。
when we do it , we must do it well , and competently .	當我們這樣做時 , 我們必須把事情做好 , 並且很有能力 。
but my thesis is , opensource security is about international , interagency , privatepublic connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the internet .	但我的論點是 , 開放安全是關乎國際的、跨部門的、私人的聯繫 , 由網路上的策略性溝通的概念結合在一起 。
let me give you a couple of examples of how this works in a positive way .	讓我舉幾個例子 , 說明這如何以正面的方式運作 。
this is afghanistan . these are afghan soldiers .	這是阿富汗 , 這些是阿富汗的士兵
they are all holding books .	他們都拿著書 。
you should say , " that's odd . i thought i read that this demographic , young men and women in their 20s and 30s , is largely illiterate in afghanistan . "	你應該要說: 「 這很奇怪 , 我想我讀到 , 在這二十、三十歲的年輕人中 , 大部分對阿富汗來說是不識字的 。 」
you would be correct .	你會是對的 。
eightyfive percent cannot read when they enter the security forces of afghanistan .	當他們進入阿富汗的安全部隊時 , 百分之八十五的人無法閱讀 。
why ? because the taliban withheld education during the period of time in which these men and women would have learned to read .	為什麼 ? 因為塔利班教育的時期 , 在這些男人和女人學會閱讀的那段時期 。
so the question is , so , why are they all standing there holding books ?	所以問題是 , 為什麼他們都站在那裡拿著書 ?
the answer is , we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by nato in partnership with private sector entities , in partnership with development agencies .	答案是 , 我們在教導他們閱讀雅圖文學課程時 , 北約組織和私人機構合作 , 和開發機構合作 。
we've taught well over 200 , 000 afghan security forces to read and write at a basic level .	我們已經教會了超過二十萬人的安全部隊以基本的水平去閱讀和寫字 。
when you can read and write in afghanistan , you will typically put a pen in your pocket .	當你在阿富汗讀和寫的時候 , 通常會把一支筆放在口袋裡 。
at the ceremonies , when these young men and women graduate , they take that pen with great pride , and put it in their pocket .	在典禮上 , 當這些年輕男性和女性畢業時 , 他們帶著驕傲的筆 , 放在他們的口袋裡 。
this is bringing together international — there are 50 nations involved in this mission — interagency — these development agencies — and privatepublic , to take on this kind of security .	全球有50個參與這項任務的國家--跨部門--這些發展機構和公共和共和國 , 來採取這類安全措施 。
now , we are also teaching them combat skills , of course , but i would argue , opensource security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect .	當然 , 我們也教導他們對抗技能 , 但我認為 , 開放原始碼的安全性意味著 , 以創造更長久的安全性效應的方式連結在一起 。
this is a us navy warship .	這是美國海軍戰艦 。
it's called the comfort .	叫做舒適感 。
there's a sister ship called the mercy .	有一艘姐妹船叫做慈悲 。
they are hospital ships .	他們是醫院的船隻 。
this one , the comfort , operates throughout the caribbean and the coast of south america conducting patient treatments .	這個 , 舒適的狀況 , 在加勒比海和南美的海岸進行病人治療 。
on a typical cruise , they'll do 400 , 000 patient treatments .	在一般的巡迴演出中 , 他們會做四十萬個病人的治療 。
it is crewed not strictly by military but by a combination of humanitarian organizations: operation hope , project smile .	船員不是嚴格地依靠軍隊 , 而是結合人道主義組織:營運希望、微笑 。
other organizations send volunteers .	其他組織則派來志工 。
interagency physicians come out .	內部的內部醫生出來了 。
they're all part of this .	它們都是其中的一部份 。
to give you one example of the impact this can have , this little boy , eight years old , walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the comfort .	舉個例子 , 這個小男孩 , 八歲的小男孩 , 和他的媽媽一起走了兩天 , 來到舒適圈的眼科診所 。
when he was fitted , over his extremely myopic eyes , he suddenly looked up and said , " mama , veo el mundo . "	當他適合時 , 在他非常神奇的眼中 , 他突然抬頭說: 「 媽媽 , veoelmundo 。 」
" mom , i see the world . "	「 媽媽 , 我看到世界 。 」
multiply this by 400 , 000 patient treatments , this privatepublic collaboration with security forces , and you begin to see the power of creating security in a very different way .	將這個技術乘以四十萬個病人的治療方法 , 私人和安全部隊的合作 , 你就會開始看到創造安全的力量 , 以截然不同的方式 。
here you see baseball players .	這裡你看到的是棒球選手 。
can you pick out the two us army soldiers in this photograph ?	你能挑出這張照片中的美國軍隊士兵嗎 ?
they are the two young men on either side of these young boys . this is part of a series of baseball clinics , where we have explored collaboration between major league baseball , the department of state , who sets up the diplomatic piece of this , military baseball players , who are real soldiers with real skills but participate in this mission , and they put on clinics throughout latin america and the caribbean , in honduras , in nicaragua , in all of the central american and caribbean nations where baseball is so popular , and it creates security .	他們是這兩位年輕人 , 不論是年輕男孩 , 這是一系列棒球診所的一部分 , 我們已經探索了一系列的棒球大聯盟 , 國務院 , 他們設立了外交部的部門 , 軍事棒球隊的球員 , 他們是真正的戰士 , 他們是真正有技能的戰士 , 但他們參與了這一系列的戰役 , 他們在拉丁美洲和加勒比 , 和加勒比 , 和加勒比 , 加勒比 , 加勒比 , 加勒比 , 創造了整個中美洲 , 加勒比 , 加勒比 , 加勒比 , 加勒比人和加勒比 , 加勒比 , 加勒比 , 加勒比 , 加勒比 , 加勒比 , 加勒比 , 加勒比人和加勒比人和加勒比人和加勒比人之間 , 加勒比 , 加勒比人之間 , 加勒比人之間 , 加勒比人和加勒比人之間 , 加勒比 , 加勒比人之間 , 加勒比人之間
it shows role models to young men and women about fitness and about life that i would argue help create security for us .	它顯示年輕男性與女性的角色榜樣 , 關於健身 , 以及我認為能為我們創造安全的人生 。
another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief .	另一方面 , 這種合作關係的另一面是災難救援 。
this is a us air force helicopter participating after the tsunami in 2004 which killed 250 , 000 people .	這是美國空軍直升機 , 在2004年海嘯過後 , 造成25萬人死亡 。
in each of these major disasters — the tsunami in 2004 , 250 , 000 dead , the kashmiri earthquake in pakistan , 2005 , 85 , 000 dead , the haitian earthquake , about 300 , 000 dead , more recently the awful earthquaketsunami combination which struck japan and its nuclear industry — in all of these instances , we see partnerships between international actors , interagency , privatepublic working with security forces to respond to this kind of natural disaster .	在這些重大的災難中2004年的海嘯 , 250000人死於巴基斯坦的卡什里大地震 , 2005年 , 8萬人死亡 , 海地地地震 , 大約有30萬人死亡 , 更近期的地震混合 , 引發了日本和其核工業的衝突 , 在所有這些例子中 , 我們看到了國際介入的跨部門 , 跨部門、跨部門 , 和自然界的衝突 , 並且與自然界的衝突 。
so these are examples of this idea of opensource security .	這些例子都是關於開放原始碼的安全 。
we tie it together , increasingly , by doing things like this .	透過這樣的方式 , 我們將它綁在一起 。
now , you're looking at this thinking , " ah , admiral , these must be sea lanes of communication , or these might be fiber optic cables . "	現在 , 你們看到的 , 是在想 , 「 啊 , 邁德 , 這些肯定是溝通的航線 , 或這些可能是光纖電纜 。 」
no . this is a graphic of the world according to twitter .	不 , 這是twitter的圖表
purple are tweets . green are geolocation .	紫色是推特 。 綠色是地理分配 。
white is the synthesis .	白色是合成 。
it's a perfect evocation of that great population survey , the six largest nations in the world in descending order: china , india , facebook , the united states , twitter and indonesia .	這是個完美的例子 , 關於大眾調查 , 世界上六大國 , 以下六大國家 , 依序排行:中國、印度、臉書、美國、推特 , 和印尼 。
why do we want to get in these nets ?	為什麼我們要進到這些蚊帳呢 ?
why do we want to be involved ?	為什麼我們想要參與其中 ?
we talked earlier about the arab spring , and the power of all this .	我們先前談過阿拉伯之春以及這一切的力量
i'll give you another example , and it's how you move this message .	我再舉一個例子 , 也是你如何移動這條訊息 。
i gave a talk like this in london a while back about this point . i said , as i say to all of you , i'm on facebook . friend me .	我在倫敦發表了這樣子的演講 , 那時我跟各位說 , 我在臉書上 , 朋友我 。
got a little laugh from the audience .	觀眾笑了一下 。
there was an article which was run by ap , on the wire .	有一篇文章 , 是由ap所主導 , 在電線上執行 。
got picked up in two places in the world: finland and indonesia .	世界上有兩個地方:芬蘭和印尼 。
the headline was: nato admiral needs friends .	標題是:北大西洋公約需要朋友 。
and the story was a catalyst , and the next morning i had hundreds of facebook friend requests from indonesians and finns , mostly saying , " admiral , we heard you need a friend , and oh , by the way , what is nato ? "	這個故事是個催化劑 , 隔天早上我有上百個facebook的朋友請求 , 來自印尼和芬蘭 , 大多說: 「 艾米 , 我們聽到你需要一個朋友 , 喔 , 北約是什麼 ? 」
yeah , we laugh , but this is how we move the message , and moving that message is how we connect international , interagency , privatepublic , and these social nets to help create security .	是的 , 我們笑著 , 但這就是我們如何移動這個訊息 , 移動那個訊息就是我們如何連結國際間的、私人的、以及這些社交網路 , 來協助創造安全 。
now , let me hit a somber note .	現在 , 讓我用嚴肅的話來說明 。
this is a photograph of a brave british soldier .	這是一張勇敢的英國士兵的照片 。
he's in the scots guards .	他在蘇格蘭警衛隊 。
he's standing the watch in helmand , in southern afghanistan .	他站在頭盔上 , 在阿富汗南部 。
i put him here to remind us , i would not want anyone to leave the room thinking that we do not need capable , competent militaries who can create real military effect .	我讓他來提醒我們 , 我不希望任何人離開房間 , 認為我們不需要有能力 , 不需要軍事人員 。
that is the core of who we are and what we do , and we do it to protect freedom , freedom of speech , all the things we treasure in our societies .	這是我們是誰的核心 , 我們所做的 , 我們為了保護言論自由 , 言論自由 , 所有我們在社會中珍視的事物 。
but , you know , life is not an onandoff switch .	但 , 你知道 , 生命並不是個開放的開關 。
you don't have to have a military that is either in hard combat or is in the barracks .	你不需要有一支軍隊 , 不用在戰鬥中 , 不然就是在衝突中 。
i would argue life is a rheostat .	我會爭辯生命是一場盧安達 。
you have to dial it in , and as i think about how we create security in this 21st century , there will be times when we will apply hard power in true war and crisis , but there will be many instances , as we've talked about today , where our militaries can be part of creating 21stcentury security , international , interagency , privatepublic , connected with competent communication .	你不得不把它撥進去 , 正如我思考我們如何在21世紀建立安全 , 在真正的戰爭和危機中 , 將會有好幾次 , 在我們今天所談的 , 我們的軍隊能夠成為一個21世紀安全、國際、跨部門、私人間的溝通系統的一部分 , 再加上溝通的能力 。
i would close by saying that we heard earlier today about wikipedia . i use wikipedia all the time to look up facts , and as all of you appreciate , wikipedia is not created by 12 brilliant people locked in a room writing articles .	最後 , 我想說的是 , 我們今天早先聽到的關於維基百科的消息 。 我經常使用維基百科 , 來尋找事實 , 如同你們所知 , 維基百科不是由12位聰明的人所創建的 , 不是在房間裡寫文章 。
wikipedia , every day , is tens of thousands of people inputting information , and every day millions of people withdrawing that information .	維基百科每天有數萬人輸入資訊 , 每天有數百萬人退縮這些資訊 。
it's a perfect image for the fundamental point that no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	這是個完美的圖像 , 對根本的觀點來說 , 沒有人和我們一起想的一樣聰明 。
no one person , no one alliance , no one nation , no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	沒有一個人 , 沒有一個聯盟 , 沒有一個國家 , 我們沒有一個人像我們一樣聰明 。
the vision statement of wikipedia is very simple: a world in which every human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge .	維基百科的說法很簡單:一個讓每個人自由共享所有知識的世界 。
my thesis for you is that by combining international , interagency , privatepublic , strategic communication , together , in this 21st century , we can create the sum of all security .	我的論點是 , 透過結合國際間的、跨部門的、私人的、策略性的溝通 , 在21世紀 , 我們能創造出安全的總和 。
thank you very much . thank you . thank you .	非常謝謝 。 謝謝 。
