BLEU = 26.61 58.3/33.8/20.6/13.4 (BP = 0.980 ratio = 0.981 hyp_len = 109123 ref_len = 111282)
when you say she's a programmer , she did do some , but the real thing is to have said the future is going to be much , much more than this .	當你說她是程式設計師 , 確實有所貢獻 , 但真正重要的是 , 她說未來會遠遠超過這個 。
now , a hundred years later , this guy comes along , alan turing , and in 1936 , and invents the computer all over again .	一百年後 , 這個傢伙出現了 , 艾倫•圖靈 , 1936年 , 再一次發明電腦 。
now , of course , babbage's machine was entirely mechanical .	當然 , babbage的機器是純機械的
turing's machine was entirely theoretical .	turing的機器是理論性的
both of these guys were coming from a mathematical perspective , but turing told us something very important .	這兩個人都是從數學的觀點來的 , 但turing告訴我們一些非常重要的事 。
he laid down the mathematical foundations for computer science , and said , " it doesn't matter how you make a computer . "	他為電腦科學奠定了數學基礎 , 說: 「 不論你怎麼創造電腦都無所謂 。 」
it doesn't matter if your computer's mechanical , like babbage's was , or electronic , like computers are today , or perhaps in the future , cells , or , again , mechanical again , once we get into nanotechnology .	不管你的電腦是不是像babbage那樣 , 或是電子 , 都不重要就像現在的電腦 , 或是未來的電腦 , 或是細胞 , 或是再一次 , 又或者 , 又一次 , 機械性 , 一旦我們進入了奈米科技 。
we could go back to babbage's machine and just make it tiny . all those things are computers .	我們可以回到babbage的機器 , 讓它變得很小 。 這些都是電腦 。
there is in a sense a computing essence .	有一種計算的本質 。
this is called the church–turing thesis .	這叫做church-turing理論
and so suddenly , you get this link where you say this thing babbage had built really was a computer .	突然間 , 你看到一個連結 , 那個連結是babbage建造的機器 , 其實就是電腦 。
in fact , it was capable of doing everything we do today with computers , only really slowly .	事實上 , 它可以做到今天我們用電腦可以做到的所有事情 , 只是真的很慢 。
to give you an idea of how slowly , it had about 1k of memory .	為了讓你知道它有多慢 , 它有大約1k的記憶體 。
it used punch cards , which were being fed in , and it ran about 10 , 000 times slower the first zx81 .	它使用打孔卡 , 也就是被餵食的 , 打孔卡的速度比第一台zx81還要慢一萬倍 。
it did have a ram pack .	它的確有一群ram包 。
you could add on a lot of extra memory if you wanted to .	如果你想要的話 , 你可以加入很多額外的記憶 。
so , where does that bring us today ?	所以 , 這又帶我們到哪裡去 ?
so there are plans .	所以 , 有一些計畫 。
over in swindon , the science museum archives , there are hundreds of plans and thousands of pages of notes written by charles babbage about this analytical engine .	在swindon科學博物館的檔案中 , 有數百個計劃和數千頁的筆記 , 由charlesbabbage撰寫 , 內容是這個分析引擎 。
one of those is a set of plans that we call plan 28 , and that is also the name of a charity that i started with doron swade , who was the curator of computing at the science museum , and also the person who drove the project to build a difference engine , and our plan is to build it .	其中有一系列計畫我們稱之為計劃28這同時也是我和doronswade所創立的一個慈善機構的名字他是科學博物館的管理者還有推動計劃要建造出一個不一樣引擎的人我們的計劃就是建造它
here in south kensington , we will build the analytical engine .	在肯辛頓南部 , 我們會建造分析引擎 。
the project has a number of parts to it .	這個專案有幾個部分 。
one was the scanning of babbage's archive .	第一是掃描babbage的文獻
that's been done . the second is now the study of all of those plans to determine what to build .	這是已經完成的 。 第二個是關於所有計劃的研究 , 來決定要建造什麼 。
the third part is a computer simulation of that machine , and the last part is to physically build it at the science museum .	第三部分是模擬那台機器的電腦 , 最後一部分是在科學博物館裡進行的 。
when it's built , you'll finally be able to understand how a computer works , because rather than having a tiny chip in front of you , you've got to look at this humongous thing and say , " ah , i see the memory operating , i see the cpu operating , i hear it operating . i probably smell it operating . "	當它完成時 , 你會終於能夠理解電腦是如何運作的 , 因為 , 不需要在你面前裝一個小晶片 , 你得要看著這個巨大的東西 , 然後說: 「 啊 , 我看到記憶體在運作 , 我看到cpu在運作 , 我聽見它在運作 。 我聞起來可能在運作 。 」
but in between that we're going to do a simulation .	但在這之間 , 我們將會做一個模擬 。
babbage himself wrote , he said , as soon as the analytical engine exists , it will surely guide the future course of science .	babbage自己寫道:一旦分析引擎真的存在它一定會引導未來的科學發展
of course , he never built it , because he was always fiddling with new plans , but when it did get built , of course , in the 1940s , everything changed .	當然 , 他從來沒有把它做出來 , 因為他總是在微笑新計劃 , 但當它真的在1940年代被做出來時 , 一切都改變了 。
now , i'll just give you a little taste of what it looks like in motion with a video which shows just one part of the cpu mechanism working .	現在 , 我讓各位稍微了解一下它在動作時的樣子 , 這影片展示出的只是cpu的運作過程中的一部分 。
so this is just three sets of cogs , and it's going to add . this is the adding mechanism in action , so you imagine this gigantic machine .	所以這只是三組齒輪 , 它將會加上 。 這是加法的運作 , 所以 , 想像一下這台巨大的機器 。
so , give me five years .	所以 , 給我五年時間 。
before the 2030s happen , we'll have it .	在2030之前 , 我們將會有 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
in this imagefilled talk , yann arthusbertrand displays his three most recent projects on humanity and our habitat stunning aerial photographs in his series " the earth from above , " personal interviews from around the globe featured in his web project " 6 billion others , " and his soontobereleased movie , " home , " which documents human impact on the environment through breathtaking video .	在充滿影像的演說中 , 雅南•阿特伯特蘭展示了他最近三項關於人性的近期作品 , 我們的棲息地在他的系列《地之上》中播出了他的作品《地之上》 , 來自世界各地的個人訪談 , 標題是他的網路《六十億人》 , 及他剛出版的電影 , 《家》 , 將人類對於環境所產生的影響 , 藉由拍攝影像 。
art , climate change , environment , film , future , humanity , media , photography	藝術、氣候變化、環境、未來、人類、媒體、攝影技術等 。
yann arthusbertrand captures fragile earth in wideangle	雅南•亞瑟伯特用寬寬寬的角度捕捉脆弱的地球 。
i have a big impact on the planet to travel here by plane .	我對地球造成很大的影響 , 只要飛機過去 。
i emitted , in the atmosphere , nine tons of co2 ; that is the weight of two elephants .	我在大氣中排放了9噸二氧化碳 , 那是兩隻大象的重量 。
i came here to speak about ecology , and i emitted as much co2 as a frenchman in one year .	我來這裡談談生態學 , 以法國人一年的排放量來排放二氧化碳 。
so what do i have to do ?	所以 , 我該怎麼做 ?
i have to kill a frenchman when i come back at home ?	當我回到家時 , 我得要殺一個法國人 ?
i have to do my carbon offset in another way , like i do every time .	我必須用另一種方式來減碳 , 像我每次都做 。
in fact my work is to show our impact on our planet .	事實上 , 我的工作是展示出我們對地球的影響 。
i'm going to show you some examples of the last pictures i've done in the last year .	我要給你們看一些例子 , 關於我去年拍攝的最後一幅照片 。
alberta sand oil , a lot of pollution .	亞伯達省的油砂 , 很多的污染 。
you know the problem ; we don't want to believe what we know .	你知道問題的所在 ; 我們不想相信已知的事物 。
in alberta people work nonstop , 24 hours by seven to extract as much oil as they can .	在亞伯達省 , 人們一天24小時一班 , 七小時一班輪替 , 為的就是盡可能多抽取石油 。
we know about the end of oil .	我們知道石油終將衰竭
oil sand is not a longterm solution .	油砂不是一個長期解決方案 。
but we use three times more oil than we find every year .	但我們每年使用的石油量卻是三倍之多 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
coral reef in new caledonia .	新克里多尼亞的珊瑚礁 。
100 percent of the coral may be wiped out before 2050 because of global warming .	全部的珊瑚可能在2050年前就因為全球暖化而被消滅了 。
and you know how coral are very sensitive to temperature , and are very important for the biodiversity of the sea .	你知道珊瑚對溫度非常敏感 , 且對海洋的多樣性非常重要 。
north pole . i've done this picture last summer .	北極是我去年夏天拍攝的照片
it was impossible to do this picture 15 years ago .	15年前 , 做這張照片是不可能的 。
now there is a new way open between atlantic and pacific .	現在 , 大西洋和太平洋之間有了一條新路 。
the thickness of the arctic decreased more than 40 percent since 1960 .	自1960年起 , 北極的厚度就下降了超過40% 。
there is a new face of kilimanjaro without ice .	有一種新的面孔 , 沒有冰 。
it lost 80 percent of its ice .	它失去了80%的冰 。
according to scientists , in 100 years all the mountain glacier will be gone .	根據科學家估計 , 在一百年內 , 所有高山的冰河都會消失 。
glaciers are very important for the life on earth .	冰河對地球上的生命非常重要 。
like al gore told you , two billion people live on the water from the glacier of himalaya .	正如阿爾•高爾所說 , 二十億人住在水上是來自喜馬拉雅冰河的 。
return of fish men .	再回來談魚的男人 。
one fifth of human kind depend on fish to live .	五分之一的人類是依靠魚而活 。
today now 70 percent of the fish stock are overexploited .	現今有70%的魚庫被過度利用 。
according to fao , if we don't change our system of fishing the main sea resources will be gone in 2050 .	根據聯合國的資料 , 如果我們不改變捕魚的系統 , 2050年的主要海洋資源就會消失 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
the beautiful picture , by [unclear] in africa .	這張美麗的照片 , 在非洲 。
one human of six have not enough to eat in the world .	世界上每六個人就有一個人沒有足夠的食物 。
one billion people have not enough to eat .	十億人沒有足夠的食物 。
in africa , corn is one of the main foods in many places .	在非洲 , 玉米是許多地方的主要食物之一 。
here in america , 90 percent of the corn cultivated is used to feed animals or to do oil .	在美國 , 培育出來的90%玉米都被用來餵養動物或石油 。
palm tree plantation in borneo .	在婆羅洲棕櫚樹種植園 。
every year we lose 50 thousand square miles in deforestation .	每一年 , 我們在森林砍伐上就損失了五萬平方英里 。
refugee camp in darfur .	達佛的難民營 。
today we have 20 million refugees in the world .	今天全球有兩千萬難民 。
according to the u . n . , we speak about 250 million refugees in 2050 .	根據聯合國 , 2050年我們談到2.5億名難民 。
i always show my pictures in the street .	我總是在街上展示我的照片 。
we have done already 100 exhibitions in the cities .	我們已經在城市裡舉辦了100場展覽 。
but how to understand the world without the voice of people ?	但如何在沒有人的聲音的情況下理解這個世界 ?
landscape was not enough .	景觀是不夠的 。
it was obvious to me to do another work .	很顯然 , 我還有另一個工作要做 。
i launched a project named six billion others .	我發起了一個名為 「 其他60億人 」 的計畫 。
i sent around the world six cameramen asking the same question , the same crucial question , about life .	我派六個攝影師到世界各地問了同樣的問題 , 同樣的重要的問題 , 關於生命的問題 。
we have done five thousand interviews .	我們已經完成了五千次訪談 。
i'm going to show you this .	我要給你們看這個 。
man: the most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life ?	男人:我生命中最美好的事情是什麼 ?
it's when my dad told me , " here , i give you this girl as your fiance . "	當我爸爸告訴我: 「 過來 , 我把這個女孩當作你的虛構 。 」
woman: love ? love is nice if you can have it .	女子:愛 ? 愛是很好的 , 如果你能的話 。
second man: romeo and juliet , sassi and panno , dodi and diana , heer and ranjha , this is love ! third man: my greatest fear is . . .	第二個男人:羅密歐與茱麗葉 , sassi , panno , 多迪和戴安娜 , heer和ranjha , 這是愛情 ! 第三個男人:我最大的恐懼......
woman: you're asking me a hard question .	女子:你問我一個困難的問題 。
fourth man: i live happily because what else should i do ?	第四個男人:我幸福快樂地活著 , 因為還有什麼是我該做的 ?
fifth man: the first thing i remember . . .	第五個男人:我記得的第一件事 。
fifth man: . . . from my childhood , fifth man: we were having fun , biking .	第五個男人:從我小時候開始 , 第五個男人:我們在騎腳踏車 。
seventh man: we invented stories , we flew around the world , while remaining in our attic .	第七個男人:我們發明了故事 , 我們飛遍世界各地 , 同時還留在閣樓裡 。
eighth man: i had a big laugh today .	第八個男人:我今天大笑 。
ninth man: you see , family is . . . it's awful .	第九個男人:你看 , 家庭...很糟糕 。
10th man: in the word life , you have the life .	第十個男人:在 " 生命 " 這個詞中 , 你有生命 。
11th man: who am i ? isn't that the biggest question ?	第十一個男人:我是誰 ? 這是最大的問題 ?
12th man: if i was to go back to iraq and speak to the people , i'd have to bow down and kiss their feet .	第十二個男人:如果我回到伊拉克 , 跟伊拉克人民說 , 我就得放下腳下 , 親吻他們的腳 。
just as that woman tried to kiss my feet when we were taking her sons .	就如同那個女人想親吻我的腳 , 我們帶著她的兒子 。
and i feel humbled by their strength .	我因為他們的力量而感到謙卑 。
and i will forever feel a need to make reparations to iraq .	我永遠覺得有必要向伊拉克做報復 。
second woman: dad , mom , i grew up .	第二個女人:爸爸 , 媽媽 , 我長大了 。
you shouldn't worry about me . dad doesn't need to go to work .	你不該擔心我 。 爸爸不需要上班 。
my family . . . what can i say ?	我的家人...我可以說什麼 ?
at the moment , my family is very poor , my life here in shenzhen is just about showing myself that i can earn more and to let my parents stay and have something to live on .	此刻 , 我的家人很窮 , 我在深圳的生活 , 就是要展現自己 , 我可以賺更多錢 , 讓父母去過生活 。
i don't want them to spend their whole lives in poverty .	我不希望他們一生都在貧窮中度過 。
if someday i can achieve something , i would like to say thank you daddy and mommy .	如果有一天我能達成目標 , 我想說謝謝老爸和媽媽 。
thank you for having fed me and raised me , and for making my life of today . thank you .	謝謝你餵我和扶養我 , 讓我有了今天的人生 。 謝謝 。
13th man: after seven years now of being in a wheelchair , i've done more in life being in a chair than out of a chair .	第十三個男人:我在輪椅上度過了七年 , 我在輪椅上所完成的人生 , 比坐在椅子外面時多了 。
i still surf . i sail the world . i freedive .	我仍然衝浪 。 我航向世界 , 我自由發揮 。
after many people said i couldn't do that .	許多人都說我做不到 。
and i think that comes from connecting with nature , connecting with the energy of life , because we're all disabled in some way on the planet spiritually , mentally or physically .	我認為這是因為我們與大自然連結 , 與生命的能量連結 , 因為我們在某種程度上都是在心理上或身體上是殘障的 。
i got the easy part .	我得到很簡單的一面 。
14th man: let's say that you and me like each other .	第十四個男人:比方說 , 你和我都喜歡對方 。
you come from elsewhere .	你來自其他地方 。
you don't know me . i don't know you .	你不認識我 。 我不認識你 。
we talk without lying .	我們不說謊
if i do like you , i give you one cow and many other things and we become friends .	如果我喜歡你 , 我會給你一頭牛和許多其他東西 , 然後我們就成了朋友 。
how can we make it all by ourselves ?	我們要如何讓一切都變成我們自己 ?
yab: you can also go to the website , answer respond to the questions also .	伯特蘭:你還可以上這個網站 , 也來回答這個問題 。
now i am going to speak to you about my movie .	現在我要和各位談談我的電影 。
for the last three years , i was shooting the earth for the movie .	過去三年 , 我拍攝了一部關於地球的電影 。
the name of the movie is " home " " maison . "	這部電影的名字是 「 家 」 。
it is about the state of the planet .	重點是地球的狀況 。
it's a fantastic story of life on the earth .	這是個關於地球生命的奇妙故事 。
i'm very proud to show you the teaser .	我很驕傲能給你們看這張圖片 。
video: this earth is four and a half billion years old .	影片:地球已經有45億年的歷史了 。
these plants , several hundred million years old .	這些植物已經有數億年的歷史了 。
and we humans have been walking upright for only 200 thousand years .	我們人類直立行走僅20萬年 。
we've managed to adapt , and have conquered the whole planet .	我們成功地適應並征服了整個地球 。
for generations , we've been raising our children , not unlike millions of other species living beside us .	世世代以來 , 我們養育我們的孩子 , 和我們身邊其他數百萬種物種不同 。
for the past 30 years i've been closely watching the earth and its dwellers from high up in the sky .	過去30年來 , 我從高空中觀察地球和它的居民 。
our life is tied to the wellbeing of our planet .	我們的生活依賴於地球的福祉 。
we depend on water , forests , deserts , oceans .	我們依賴水、森林、沙漠、海洋 。
fishing , breeding , farming are still the world's foremost human occupations .	捕魚、繁殖、農業 , 仍然是世界上最重要的人類職業 。
and what binds us together is far greater than what divides us .	將我們連結在一起的程度遠大於區隔我們的力量 。
we all share the same need for the earth's gifts the same wish to rise above ourselves , and become better .	我們對地球的禮物都有同樣的需求 , 希望能超越我們自己 , 變得更好 。
and yet we carry on raising walls to keep us apart .	然而 , 我們卻繼續在牆壁上築牆 , 來讓我們保持距離 。
today our greatest battle is to protect the natural offerings of our planet .	今天 , 我們最大的戰役就是保護地球的天然資源 。
in less than 50 years we've altered it more thoroughly than in the entire history of mankind .	在不到50年的時間裡 , 我們已經徹底地改變了它 , 遠遠超過了人類的整個歷史 。
half of the world's forests have vanished .	世界上一半的森林已經消失 。
water resources are running low .	水資源的運輸很低 。
intensive farming is depleting soils .	集約農業正在耗盡土壤 。
our energy sources are not sustainable .	我們的能源來源不是永續的 。
the climate is changing .	氣候正在改變 。
we are endangering ourselves .	我們正在危害我們自己 。
we're only trying to improve our lives .	我們只在嘗試改善我們的生活 。
but the wealth gaps are growing wider .	但 , 財富差距越來越大 。
we haven't yet understood that we're going at a much faster pace than the planet can sustain .	我們還沒有意識到 , 我們正以比地球能夠承受的更快的速度前進 。
we know that solutions are available today .	我們知道 , 現今就有解決方案 。
we all have the power to change this trend for the better .	我們都有能力改變這個趨勢 , 變得更好 。
so what are we waiting for ?	所以 , 我們還在等什麼 ?
yab: luc besson is the producer of the movie .	伯特蘭:盧貝森是這部電影的製作人 。
but it is not a normal movie .	但這不是一般的電影 。
the film is going to be distributed free .	這部影片將免費發行 。
this film has no copyright .	這部電影沒有版權 。
on the five of june , the environment day , everybody can download the movie on internet .	在六月五日 , 環境日那天 , 每個人都可以在網路上下載這部電影 。
the film is given for free to the distributor for tv and theater to show it the fifth of june .	這部影片免費提供給電視和電影院的經銷商們在6月5日播放 。
there is no business on this movie .	這部電影沒有生意 。
it is also available for school , cities , ngos and you .	它也提供給學校、城市、非政府組織和你們 。
we have to believe what we know .	我們必須相信我們所知道的 。
let me tell you something .	讓我告訴你一件事 。
it's too late to be pessimistic really too late .	悲觀已經太晚了 , 真的太晚了 。
we have all a part of the solutions .	我們有解決方案的一部分 。
to finish , i would like to welcome the 4 , 700th baby born since the beginning of this talk .	最後 , 我想歡迎從我演講開始以後出生的4 , 700個寶寶 。
merci beaucoup . i love you .	非常感謝 。 我愛你 。
illustrious jugglers the raspyni brothers show off their uncanny balance , agility , coordination and willingness to sacrifice . now , if you'll just stand completely still . . .	傑出的雜技表演者是拉斯普尼兄弟 , 展現出他們不可思議的平衡、敏捷、協調 , 以及願意犧牲的意願 。 若你完全保持靜止......
collaboration , entertainment , humor , physics	合作、娛樂、幽默、物理 ,
the raspyni brothers juggle and jest	raspyni兄弟雜耍和jest 。
dan holzman: please throw out the beanbag chairs . here we go .	請把懶骨頭丟出來 。 我們開始吧 。
barry friedman: there are all kinds of hightech chairs here today , but this is really , i think , when it reached its peak as far as ergonomics , comfort , design , flexibility . . .	今天有很多種高科技的椅子 , 但我認為這真的是太高科技了 , 以人工學、舒適、設計、靈活度來說 , 它達到高峰 。
dh: now obviously , this is not something we do on our regular show ; it's something we just kind of learned for this , so we're going to try . but can we have some inspirational music for the beanbag chairs ?	很顯然 , 這不是我們平常在做的節目我們只是為了這個而學來的 , 所以我們要來試試 。 但是我們能為懶骨頭創造一些靈感的音樂嗎 ?
bf: nice show , daniel , nice show . you are the man !	丹尼爾:好的節目 , 很好的節目 。 你就是那個人 !
nice show . man , that was good !	很棒的節目 。 老兄 , 那很好 !
bf: you know , sometimes when people do those , they go all the way down .	布:你知道 , 有時候當人們這麼做時 , 他們會一直往下走 。
you actually just did that .	你其實剛才那麼做 。
that's the kind of extra effort that's gotten us where we are today . . .	這就是多餘的努力 , 帶領我們走到今天的位置 。
dh: all right , let's show them something special .	好 , 讓我們給他們看一些特別的東西 。
bf: . . . without a macarthur grant .	bf:沒有macarthur補助 。
yeah , look at this . you know , all kinds of different . . .	是的 , 看看這個 。 你知道 , 各式各樣 。
ted is about invention , let's be honest . right ? dh: yeah , it is .	老實說 , ted就是在講創新 , 對吧 ? dh:是的 。
bf: last night , michael moschen showed some juggling props he has invented and working on .	michaelmoschen在昨晚展示了一些雜耍道具他已經發明和研究過
right now , dan's going to show something he actually invented .	現在 , dan要展示他真正發明的東西 。
dh: a type of juggling i actually invented , right after i saw another juggler do it .	一種我發明的雜技 , 就在我看到另一位雜技表演者之後 。
dh: and this is a small excerpt from a longer piece .	這是一段很長的片段
folks , this is shaker cup juggling . it's not a showstopper but it certainly slows it down .	各位 , 這是雪克杯雜耍 , 不是表演員 , 但它確實會放慢速度 。
bf: oh yeah , it does .	噢 ! 沒錯 !
bf: oh , daniel .	噢 , daniel 。
bf: ok . dh: oh ! all right .	噢 ! 好了 !
i'm now pushing my luck: i'm skipping right to six cups .	我現在在努力推動我的運氣:我直接跳過六個杯子 。
in order to do six cups , i must have perfect control over three with my right hand .	為了做六個杯子 , 我必須擁有完美的控制權 , 三個都有我的右手 。
bf: also three with his left .	他的左邊也是第三個 。
and now , all six cups . should i do it on the first try or should i miss once on purpose ?	現在 , 六個杯子 。 我應該在第一次嘗試 , 還是我應該要故意錯過一次 ?
bf: first try ? once on purpose ?	首先試一次 ? 一次目的嗎 ?
dh: how about if i try first and then decide ?	先試試看然後再決定
bf: good idea . let's leave that . we'll leave that door open .	好主意 ! 我們先暫停一下 。 我們先從門口打開 。
dh: he's looking at me .	他看著我 。
bf: that's all right , he does that . all right .	沒關係 , 他做到了 。 沒關係 。
dh: oh ! it's time for richard's help .	噢 ! 該是理查的幫忙了 。
oh , good . all right .	噢 , 好 , 好 。 好 。
bf: you know , over the years , every year at the conference , it's kind of become a tradition for us to do something dangerous with richard . and we've always done something with the bullwhips in our act . it's funny , for years i did it with daniel holding balloons .	布:你知道嗎 , 多年來 , 每一年在研討會上 , 我們都變成了一種傳統 , 用理查做一些危險的事情 。 我們都一直在表演中和鞭子做些什麼 。 有趣的是 , 多年來daniel都拿著氣球做 。
and then we thought , " how stupid . "	然後我們就想: 「 多麼愚蠢 。 」
dh: excuse me , could we work on the design of the microphone ?	不好意思 , 我們能設計麥克風的設計嗎 ?
bf: i think that's the next session .	我想那是下一場的主題 。
bf: yeah . and so we've actually found a way to incorporate richard in this .	布:是的 , 我們真的找到一個方法去結合理查 。
he actually assumes more of the danger in this .	其實在這當中 , 他比較危險 。
dh: please stand up , richard .	請站起來 , 理查 。
dh: now richard , please . . .	現在理查德 , 拜託......
bf: ok , sorry .	布:好 , 抱歉 。
dh: jesus christ . richard , please stand in front of me .	耶穌基督 。 理查 , 請站在我面前 。
richard wurman: can i say something ?	理查•沃爾曼:我能說點什麼嗎 ?
rw: in all past years i've rehearsed with them , the things that have happened to me i have no idea what's going to happen and that's the truth .	雷恩:在過去的幾年中 , 我和他們排練過 , 我完全不知道會發生什麼事 , 而這就是事實 。
dh: all right , please stand here in front . . .	好 , 請站在這裡 。
god , i hate that . put your hands out like this , please .	天啊 , 我討厭這樣 。 請把你的手像這樣伸出來 。
bf: no , come stay up with him .	才不要跟著他過來 。
dan used to actually hold them but now he's got you for protection .	以前 , dan曾經拿著它們 , 但現在它有了保護作用 。
it's kind of neat . ok .	很棒 。 好 。
dh: wow , you've been working out .	哇 , 你一直都在想辦法 。
bf: no , shut up !	才不會 , 閉嘴 !
having a little bit of richard time . that's nice , that's good .	有一點理查的時間 。 很好 , 很好 。
ok , here we go .	好 , 我們開始吧 。
have him hold your wrist so i can . . .	讓他抓著你的手腕好讓我...
dh: please hold my wrist , will you . bf: yeah , hold this a minute .	請抓著我的手 , 抓一下 。
ok , hold on .	好 , 等等 。
bf: all those midyear phone calls are coming back to me now , richard .	理查 , 那些中年打來的電話現在會回來給我 。
dh: so richard , what were we on the list ? like 1 , 020 ?	所以 , 理查 , 我們列出了什麼 ? 像是1 , 020 ?
bf: i think we were just outside .	布:我想我們只是在外面 。
dh: sorry . bf: having some bad flashbacks .	對不起 。 bf:有些負面的回應 。
rw: do you want me to hold you or not ? dh: don't hold me that hard .	雷恩:你要我堅持你是不是 ? 狄:別抱我 。
bf: here we go , i'm taking it .	來了 , 我接受了 。
dh: one more , one more .	再一個 。
bf: we've got one more we're going to do .	我們還有一個要做 。
rw: do i get to hold them ?	雷恩:我能拿住他們嗎 ?
bf: you don't want to hold these , trust me .	不要緊 , 相信我 。
dh: could you spread your legs a little bit ?	可以把腳張開一點嗎 ?
bf: gloria , you want to do it ? it's very cool .	布:你想做到嗎 ? 還滿酷的 。
one more try . man , i don't want to get too close .	再試一次 。 老兄 , 我不想離得太近 。
could you just push that ?	能不能就這樣推一下 ?
dh: wow ! boy !	哇 !
bf: that's cool . i always wanted to try that .	太酷了 ! 我一直想試試看 。
dh: let's jump this way , though .	不過 , 換個方式吧 。
now , we risked richard's life , it's only fair we risk our own lives .	我們冒著richard的生命危險 , 只是公平的我們自己冒著生命危險 。
so to do that , i will juggle these three razorsharp sickles .	為了做到這一點 , 我會用三把鋒利的鐮刀作例子 。
and if that wasn't enough , and judging by your response , it's not . . .	如果這還不夠 , 根據你的反應來判斷 , 那不是......
dh: wow ! bf: hoping for a little more build .	哇 ! 希望有再多一點的建造 。
dh: true . barry . . .	真的 ! 芭蕾......
bf: i'm going to run up behind him .	我要跑到他後面 。
dh: leap over my shoulder .	跳過我的肩膀 。
bf: up and over his shoulders .	在他的肩膀上及肩膀上 。
dh: grab the blades in midair , land right there in a pool of blood . . .	抓住半空中的刀片 , 降落在那兒 , 擠滿了血 。
impossible , you say ?	你說 , 不可能 ?
bf: incredible , you say ?	你覺得不可思議吧 ?
dh: why bother , you say ?	你覺得麻煩了嗎 ?
bf: here we go .	我們開始吧 。
dh: just do it juggler boys , you say ?	你就這樣做吧 ! 雜耍小子 ?
bf: this guy , this guy invented air .	這個人 , 這個人發明空氣 。
dh: i think so , that's right .	沒錯 。
bf: he invented the pencil .	他發明了鉛筆 。
dh: all right , we'll do this trick , but please remember it took us over 10 years to perfect .	好了 , 我們會做這個把戲 , 但請記住我們花了10年才完成 。
bf: ten years to perfect , which you're about to see .	你等一下看到的就是10年的完美
dh: it's not that difficult , we just don't like to practice that much .	我們只是不喜歡太常練習而已 。
bf: no , it's a hassle . traveling too much .	麻煩的是 , 太常旅行 。
actually , we will take a second to prove this could be fake that the blades are indeed razorsharp .	事實上 , 我們要用一秒鐘來證明這可能是假的 , 而刀片確實是一片鋒利 。
dh: will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage ?	有人要丟一隻小農場動物到台上去嗎 ?
or a virgin for a sacrifice ?	還是要犧牲一個處女 ?
bf: no , she's got . . . farm animal .	布:不 , 她有......農場動物 。
dh: do you have a small farm animal ?	你有隻農場小動物嗎 ?
just trying to play the odds . all right , here we go .	只是試著彈出機率 。 好 , 我們開始吧 。
bf: over the top , over the top .	布:從上面 , 到上面 。
dh: how you feeling , barry ? you feeling all right ?	你感覺如何 ,barry ? 你感覺好嗎 ?
bf: yeah , it's all right .	沒錯 , 沒問題 。
dh: do you feel everything's ok ? the atmosphere , the . . .	你覺得一切都ok嗎 ? 大氣層 , 等等
bf: yeah , a little sketchy .	是的 , 一個小的示意 。
dh: everything up here's ok ?	上面的每樣東西都好嗎 ?
dh: then here we go .	然後我們開始吧 。
bf: this one's a little . . . who's doing the lights ? could you point that a little more directly into my eyeballs ? is that possible ? i can still see a little .	這裡有一點...是誰在燈光 ? 可以把燈光指向我的眼球嗎 ? 可以嗎 ? 我還是可以看到一點 。
dh: and turn up the intensity ; we're still pink in the middle .	強度還有粉紅色的中間部分
we went too far .	我們走得太遠 。
bf: yeah , it's too far . it's too much of a visual .	太過分了 , 視覺化太多了 。
the design of the body is a whole different thing .	身體的設計是完全不同的 。
dh: ready , barry ? bf: over the top .	dh:barry準備好了嗎 ? bf:從頭開始 。
dh: may we have our jumping music please ?	可以請我們的音樂跳躍起來嗎 ?
may we have it a bit louder ?	我們能不能放聲一點 ?
bf: they're a good crew ! whoa !	他們是好隊員 ! 哇 !
dh: whoa , sorry . all right .	噢 , 對不起 。 好了 。
bf: we're going on .	繼續 。
dh: all right , we'll try again .	好 , 我們再試一次 。
bf: all right ? oh my gosh . oh .	可以嗎 ? 噢我的天啊 !
dh: all right , here we go . sorry about that .	好了 , 開始了 。 抱歉 。
bf: i thought i had the hard part . ok .	我想我有好難的部分 。 好 。
dh: whenever you're ready .	無論何時你準備好了 。
bf: there we go !	來吧 !
all right , get up ! come on and dance ! dh: dance , come on . bf: come on and dance !	好了 , 起來 ! 來吧 ! 舞動 ! 大:舞動 , 來吧 , 來吧 !
somebody dance ! come on !	有人跳舞 ! 拜託 !
wow , wow , ok , stop .	哇 , 哇 , 好 , 停 。
weird , no one dances . we're two guys doing this .	奇怪的是 , 沒有一個舞蹈 。 我們有兩個人在舞 。
i think that's uncomfortable for everyone .	我想這對每個人來說都很不舒服 。
dh: the french judge . . .	法國裁判......
bf: one more quick thing .	再快一點 。
dh: the french judge gives it a 5 . 2 .	法國裁判給5.2分 。
bf: well , you know . . .	恩 , 你知道的
dh: there you go . . . bf: oh , yeah . another one coming in .	哈德森:好的 , 下一個 。
dh: tell them about our bio and stuff .	跟他們談談我們的生物和其他東西 。
bf: yeah . in our bio , some of you may have read that we've won two world juggling championships .	是的 , 在我們的生物中 , 有些人可能已經讀過我們贏得了兩次世界雜耍冠軍 。
and believe it or not , you don't win juggling champions for doing things with bullwhips or shaker cups .	信不信由你 , 你不會贏得雜耍冠軍 , 只因為你做牛鞭或雪克杯就贏得雜貨 。
we're going to show you right now an excerpt from a routine that we used to wipe out the other juggling team competition .	我們現在要給大家看一段影片 , 是我們以前用來消滅其他隊伍的特技片段 。
dh: i know what you're thinking: other juggling teams must really suck .	我知道你們在想什麼:其他雜耍隊伍一定很差 。
bf: juggling's got a bad rap .	雜耍的評價很低 。
dh: but wait , barry , there's still one more club lying there by my foot .	等一下 , bry , 還有一根棒子在我腳邊 。
and look , it has a twin !	你看 , 它有一個雙胞胎 !
dh: there's still one more by my foot .	我還有一隻腳 。
what do you want me to do with it ?	你希望我用它做什麼 ?
bf: richard you tell him , it's your last year .	理查你告訴他 , 那是你去年的事了 。
dh: that's a pretty good setup , richard .	那是個很好的安排 , 理查 。
bf: yeah , it's a good setup . that's a big setup .	是的 , 這是個很好的安排 , 這是個大安排 。
dh: you can't get any better than that . all right . what i will do: i will use my pantherlike reflexes .	沒什麼好的 。 好的 。 我要做的是:我要用像豹一樣靈敏的反應 。
dh: i got that to reach down and grab that club in my grip of steel .	我把它拿下來 , 緊緊抓住俱樂部 , 緊抓著鋼鐵 。
dh: i touched it , barry . that should be enough .	我碰到了barry 。 這應該夠了 。
bf: it's progress , that's the thing .	重點是 , 進步了 。
dh: how about that ? i'll do it again .	如何 ? 我再做一次 。
oh wait , it's on your side , barry .	喔 , 等等 , 站在你這邊 ,barry 。
and it's awfully windy over there .	那邊風很大 。
bf: it is , it's weird . you wouldn't think it would affect half the stage , but it is . it's weird .	真的很奇怪 。 你不會覺得它只影響一半的舞台 , 但真的很奇怪 。
watch this: what i'm going to do is slide the seventh one onto my foot .	看這個 , 我要把第七個放在我的腳上 。
dh: wow ! what a great trick , barry !	哇 ! 多棒的把戲啊barry !
oh , look how it lies there .	喔 , 看它怎麼躺在那裡 。
oh , barry , is there nothing you can't do ?	噢barry , 有你做不到的事嗎 ?
you are my hero . you're my jim shea , jr .	你是我的英雄 , 我的jimsheajr.
bf: from my foot , i'll attempt to kick the seventh club . here we go .	我要把第七根棒子用腳踢起來 。
dh: where , barry ? where ? tell us , barry .	在哪裡barry ? 在哪裡 ? 告訴我們barry 。
[unclear] eagerly awaits your next syllable . what will it be ?	熱切地等待著你的下一個音節 。 會是什麼呢 ?
what gem of knowledge ?	什麼是知識的寶庫 ?
what pearl of wisdom ?	什麼是智慧的珍珠 ?
do you want to buy a vowel , barry ?	貝瑞 , 你想買一個母音嗎 ?
is that your final answer ?	這是你最後的答案嗎 ?
bf: all right ! you have to turn off the tv from time to time .	好吧 ! 你時時刻刻都得把電視關掉 。
dh: i do , i do .	沒錯 , 沒錯 。
bf: from my foot , the kick up in the seven .	從我的腳開始 , 七個腳開始 。
dh: we will juggle seven .	我們會雜耍七根棒子
bf: from six to seven . dh: that's a world's record . bf: really ? dh: for us .	bf:從第六個到第七個dh:這是個世界紀錄 。 真的嗎 ? dh:對我們來說 。
dh: whenever you're ready there , big guy .	無論何時你準備好了 , 大傢伙 。
put your tongue away , barry .	把你的舌頭收進去 ,貝瑞 。
bf: oh , oh , whoa .	噢 ! 噢 !
dh: please , please stay seated . stay seated . thank you .	請坐好 , 請坐好 , 請坐好 。 謝謝 。
because now , to make this twice as difficult , we'll juggle the seven clubs back . . .	因為 , 要做到兩倍困難 , 我們會把七根棒子重新拋回來......
dh: . . . to back .	背對背 。
bf: thank you , that's it .	謝謝你 , 就這樣 。
bf: thank you guys !	謝謝大家 !
dh: thank you very much !	謝謝大家 !
in this accessible talk from tedxboston , richard resnick shows how cheap and fast genome sequencing is about to turn health care upside down .	在tedxboston的演講裡理查.瑞斯尼克揭示出原本和快速基因測序即將顛覆健康照護
dna , biotech , health care , science , technology	dna、生物科技、醫療保健、科學、科技、科技 。
richard resnick: welcome to the genomic revolution	理查德.雷斯尼克:歡迎來到基因組革命 。
ladies and gentlemen , i present to you the human genome .	各位先生女士 , 我為你們介紹人類基因組 。
chromosome one , top left .	染色體一 , 左上角 。
bottom right are the sex chromosomes .	右下角是性別染色體 。
women have two copies of that big x chromosome ; men have the x and , of course , that small copy of the y .	女人有兩份大的x染色體 ; 男人有一份x染色體 , 當然還有一份小的y染色體 。
sorry boys , but it's just a tiny little thing that makes you different .	很抱歉男孩 , 但這只是讓你與眾不同的小東西 。
so if you zoom in on this genome , then what you see , of course , is this double helix structure the code of life spelled out with these four biochemical letters , or we call them bases , right: a , c , g and t .	所以 , 如果你放大這個基因組 , 你會看到 , 當然 , 這個雙螺旋結構──生命的編碼是由四個生化字母所組成 , 我們稱它們為基對 , 右邊是a、c、g、t 。
how many are there in the human genome ? three billion .	人類基因組中有多少基因 ? 30億 。
is that a big number ?	這是一個很大的數字嗎 ?
well , everybody can throw around big numbers .	每個人都可以隨便亂丟大數字 。
but in fact , if i were to place one base on each pixel of this 1280 by 800 resolution screen , we would need 3 , 000 screens to take a look at the genome .	但 , 事實上 , 如果我把這1280年像素上每一個像素上一個基對 , 到800個解析度螢幕上 , 我們需要3000個螢幕來觀察基因組 。
so it's really quite big .	真的很大 。
and perhaps because of its size , a group of people all , by the way , with y chromosomes decided they would want to sequence it .	也許是因為它的大小 , 有一群人有y染色體 , 最後決定要將它排序 。
and so 15 years , actually , and about four billion dollars later , the genome was sequenced and published .	事實上 , 15年後 , 大約40億美金後 , 基因組定序並發表 。
in 2003 , the final version was published , and they keep working on it .	2003年 , 最終的版本出版了 , 還繼續寫下去 。
that was all done on a machine that looks like this .	這一切都是在像這樣的機器上完成的 。
it costs about a dollar for each base a very slow way of doing it .	每個基底都要花1美元這是很慢的做法
well folks , i'm here to tell you that the world has completely changed and none of you know about it .	各位 , 我來這裡是要告訴各位 , 世界已經完全改變了 , 你們都不知道 。
so now what we do is we take a genome , we make maybe 50 copies of it , we cut all those copies up into little 50base reads , and then we sequence them , massively parallel .	所以我們做的是將一個基因組複製50份然後把所有的複製品切成50基對然後我們對它們進行大規模的排序
and then we bring that into software , and we reassemble it and we tell you what the story is .	然後我們將它放入到軟體中 , 再次將它重組 , 我們會告訴你這個故事是什麼 。
and so just to give you a picture of what this looks like , the human genome project: 3 gigabases , right .	給各位看看這看起來是什麼樣子的人類基因組計畫:3gabas , 對吧 ?
one run on one of these machines: 200 gigabases in a week .	一台機器會跑一台:每週200gabas 。
and that 200 is going to change to 600 this summer , and there's no sign of this pace slowing .	那個夏天將會改變到6000年 , 這個步調不會減速 。
so the price of a base , to sequence a base , has fallen 100 million times .	所以要定序基礎的價格已經下跌了一億倍 。
that's the equivalent of you filling up your car with gas in 1998 , waiting until 2011 , and now you can drive to jupiter and back twice .	這就等同於你在1998年把車裝滿氣體 , 等到2011年 , 現在你可以開木星或木星兩次 。
world population , pc placements , the archive of all the medical literature , moore's law , the old way of sequencing , and here's all the new stuff .	世界人口、pc位置、所有醫學文獻的存檔、摩爾定律、舊定律 , 這些是新東西 。
guys , this is a log scale ; you don't typically see lines that go up like that .	各位 , 這是對數比例尺 , 你通常不會看到這些線條向上移動 。
so the worldwide capacity to sequence human genomes is something like 50 , 000 to 100 , 000 human genomes this year .	全世界的人類基因組序列能力今年約有5萬到10萬人 。
and we know this based on the machines that are being placed .	我們從已被放置的機器中知道這一點 。
this is expected to double , triple or maybe quadruple year over year for the foreseeable future .	預計未來會加倍、三倍 , 或四倍 , 年復一年 , 可預見的未來會加倍 。
in fact , there's one lab in particular that represents 20 percent of all that capacity .	事實上 , 有一個實驗室佔了所有能力的20% 。
it's called the beijing genomics institute .	它叫做 " 北京基因研究所 " 。
the chinese are absolutely winning this race to the new moon , by the way .	順道一提 , 中國在贏得這場新月球比賽 。
what does this mean for medicine ?	這對醫學意味著什麼 ?
so a woman is age 37 .	一個女人37歲 。
she presents with stage 2 estrogen receptorpositive breast cancer .	她會出現第二期雌激素受體陽性乳癌 。
she is treated with surgery , chemotherapy and radiation .	她接受了手術、化療和放射治療 。
two years later , she comes back with stage three c ovarian cancer .	兩年後 , 她又發現了三期的卵巢癌 。
unfortunately , treated again with surgery and chemotherapy .	不幸的是 , 再次用手術和化療治療 。
she comes back three years later at age 42 with more ovarian cancer , more chemotherapy .	三年後 , 她在42歲時 , 發現了更多卵巢癌 , 更多的化療 。
six months later , she comes back with acute myeloid leukemia .	六個月後 , 她又患上了急性骨髓性白血病 。
she goes into respiratory failure and dies eight days later .	八天後 , 她陷入呼吸衰竭 ,
so first , the way in which this woman was treated , in as little as 10 years , will look like bloodletting .	首先 , 這個女人被醫治的方式在短短的10年內 , 看起來就像在做血液檢查 。
and it's because of people like my colleague , rick wilson , at the genome institute at washington university , who decided to take a look at this woman postmortem .	因為像我在華盛頓大學基因研究所的同事rickwilson決定要研究這位女士後剖析
and he sequenced , he took skin cells , healthy skin , and cancerous bone marrow , and he sequenced the whole genomes of both of them in a couple of weeks , no big deal .	他進行了基因測序 , 取了皮膚細胞、健康的皮膚、和癌細胞的骨髓 , 並在幾週內完成了這兩組基因組的測序 , 沒什麼大不了 。
and then he compared those two genomes in software , and what he found , among other things , was a deletion , a 2 , 000base deletion across three billion bases in a particular gene called tp53 .	然後他在軟體中比較這兩個基因組 , 他發現 , 在其它事物中 , 有一處耗損 , 在三十億個基因中 , 有一個兩千個鹼基的廢墟 , 在一個叫做tp53的基因上 。
if you have this deleterious mutation in this gene , you're 90 percent likely to get cancer in your life .	如果你有這種基因遺傳變異 , 你一生中就有90%的可能性會得癌症 。
so unfortunately , this doesn't help this woman , but it does have severe , profound if you will , implications to her family .	不幸的是 , 這對女人沒有幫助 , 但這對她的家人來說是很嚴重、很深遠的 。
i mean , if they have the same mutation , and they get this genetic test , and they understand it , then they can go and get regular screens , and they can catch cancer early and potentially live a significantly longer life .	我的意思是 , 如果他們有相同的突變 , 且他們有基因測試 , 且他們能了解 , 那他們就能定期去做篩檢 , 能及早發現癌症 , 很有可能可以過更長的人生 。
let me introduce you now to the beery twins , diagnosed with cerebral palsy at the age of two .	現在讓我來介紹beery雙胞胎 , 在2歲的時候被診斷出腦性麻痺 。
their mom is a very brave woman who didn't believe that the symptoms weren't matching up , and through some heroic efforts and a lot of internet searching , she was able to convince the medical community that , in fact , they had something else .	他們的母親是個非常勇敢的女子 , 她不相信這些症狀與眾不同 , 透過一些英勇的努力和網際網路搜尋 , 她說服了醫療界 , 其實他們還有別的東西 。
what they had was doparesponsive dystonia .	他們的做法是肌張力不全的肌張力不全症 。
and so they were given ldopa , and their symptoms did improve , but they weren't totally asymptomatic .	因此 , 他們得到了左旋多巴 , 他們的症狀確實有改善 , 但他們沒有完全症狀 。
turns out the gentleman in this picture is a guy named joe beery , who was lucky enough to be the cio of a company called life technologies .	這張照片裡的這位先生是joebeery , 他很幸運能成為一家叫做生命科技的公司的執行長 。
they're one of the two companies that makes these massive whole genome sequencing tools .	他們是兩家製造大量基因定序工具的公司之一 。
and so what he did was he got his kids sequenced .	他所做的是讓他的孩子做基因測序 。
and what they found was a series of mutations in a gene called spr , which is responsible for producing serotonin , among other things .	他們發現在一個叫做spr的基因中有一系列突變 , 負責產生血清素和其他物質 。
so on top of ldopa , they gave these kids a serotonin precursor drug , and they're effectively normal now .	所以在左旋多巴的基礎上 , 他們給了這些孩子使用血清素的前身藥物 , 現在他們是正常的 。
guys , this would never have happened without whole genome sequencing .	沒有全部的基因定序 , 這種事不可能實現 。
and at the time this was a few years ago it cost $100 , 000 .	在幾年前 , 它要花10萬美金 。
today it's $10 , 000 . next year it's $1 , 000 .	今天是一萬元 。 明年是一千元 。
the year after it's $100 , give or take a year .	年後的價格是100元 , 或一年 。
that's how fast this is moving .	這是它移動的速度 。
so here's little nick likes batman and squirt guns .	像是蝙蝠俠和水槍 。
and it turns out nick shows up at the children's hospital with this distended belly like a famine victim .	結果發現 , 尼克在兒童醫院出現 , 腹部像饑荒受害者 。
and it's not that he's not eating , it's that when he eats , his intestine basically opens up and feces spill out into his gut .	並不是他不吃東西 , 而是當他吃東西的時候 , 他的腸道會打開然後排泄物外流進他的腸子裡 。
so a hundred surgeries later , he looks at his mom and says , " mom , please pray for me . i'm in so much pain . "	經過一百次手術 , 他看著他的媽媽說: 「 媽媽 , 請祈禱我 , 我很痛苦 。 」
his pediatrician happens to have a background in clinical genetics and he has no idea what's going on , but he says , " let's get this kid's genome sequenced . "	他的小兒科醫生剛好有臨床遺傳學的背景 , 他不知道發生什麼事 , 但他說: 「 我們把這個孩子的基因定序 。 」
and what they find is a singlepoint mutation in a gene responsible for controlling programmed cell death .	他們發現的是在一個控制細胞死亡的基因上 , 有一個單點突變 。
so the theory is that he's having some immunological reaction to what's going on to the food essentially , and that's a natural reaction , which causes some programmed cell death .	所以這個理論是 , 他對本質上發生的事情產生了一種免疫反應 , 這種反應很自然 , 會造成某些編程過的細胞死亡 。
but the gene that regulates that down is broken .	但是管制它的基因已經被破壞了 。
and so this informs , among other things , of course , a treatment for bone marrow transplant , which he undertakes .	這就顯示了其他事物的治療 , 當然是治療骨髓移植的治療 , 這是他所接受的 。
and after nine months of grueling recovery , he's now eating steak with a1 sauce .	他現在用a1醬汁吃牛排了 。
the prospect of using the genome as a universal diagnostic is upon us today .	使用基因組來作為普遍診斷的前景已經來到我們面前了 。
today , it's here .	今天 , 它在這裡 。
and what it means for all of us is that everybody in this room could live an extra five , 10 , 20 years just because of this one thing .	這對我們所有人的意義是這間房間裡的每個人都可以多活個五、十年、二十年 , 只因為這個東西 。
which is a fantastic story , unless you think about humanity's footprint on the planet and our ability to keep up food production .	這真是一個美妙的故事 , 除非你思考人類在地球上的足跡 , 以及我們保持糧食生產的能力 。
so it turns out that the very same technology is also being used to grow new lines of corn , wheat , soybean and other crops that are highly tolerant of drought , of flood , of pests and pesticides .	結果發現 , 同樣的技術也被用來種植新的玉米、小麥、黃豆 , 和其他極能忍受乾旱、洪水、害蟲和殺蟲劑 。
now look , as long as we continue to increase the population , we're going to have to continue to grow and eat genetically modified foods , and that's the only position that i'll take today .	只要我們繼續增加人口 , 我們就得繼續種植和吃基因改造的食物 , 這是我今天唯一要做的事 。
unless there's anybody in the audience that would like to volunteer to stop eating ?	除非觀眾席中有人自願不再吃東西 ?
none , not one .	沒有 , 沒有 。
this is a typewriter , a staple of every desktop for decades .	這是個打字機 , 數十年來 , 每個桌子的主要角色 。
and in fact , the typewriter was essentially deleted by this thing .	事實上 , 打字機基本上被這個東西刪除了 。
and then more general versions of word processors came about .	接著更普遍的文字處理機出現了 。
but ultimately , it was a disruption on top of a disruption .	但最終 , 它在顛覆性的基礎上有了顛覆性 。
it was bob metcalfe inventing the ethernet and the connection of all these computers that fundamentally changed everything .	bobmetcafe發明了ethernet以及連接所有電腦從根本上改變了一切
and suddenly we had netscape , and we had yahoo and we had , indeed , the entire dotcom bubble .	突然間我們有了netscape , 我們有了雅虎和整個網路泡沫 。
not to worry though , that was quickly rescued by the ipod , facebook and , indeed , angry birds .	不用擔心 , 很快就被ipod、facebook、憤怒的小鳥拯救了 。
look , this is where we are today .	聽著 , 這就是我們現今的狀況 。
this is the genomic revolution today . this is where we are .	這是今天的基因革命 。 我們就在這裡 。
so what i'd like you to consider is: what does it mean when these dots don't represent the individual bases of your genome , but they connect to genomes all across the planet ?	所以 , 我想要各位思考的是:當這些點並不代表你個人基因組的基礎 , 但它們和全世界的基因組連結時 , 有什麼意涵 ?
so i just recently had to buy life insurance .	所以我不久前就得買生命保險 。
and i was required to answer: a . i have never had a genetic test , b . i've had one , here you go , and c . i've had one and i'm not telling .	我得到的答案是:a 。 我從來沒有做過基因測試 , b 。 我有過 , 來了 , 來了 , c , 我有過 , 不是在說 。
thankfully , i was able to answer a , and i say that honestly in case my life insurance agent is listening .	謝天謝地 , 我能回答a , 老實說 , 以防我的保險經紀人在聽 。
but what would have happened if i had said c ?	但如果我選了c會怎麼樣呢 ?
consumer applications for genomics , they will flourish .	基因組學的消費者應用會蓬勃發展
do you want to see whether you're genetically compatible with your girlfriend ? sure .	你想要知道你是否和你的女朋友基因上是相容的嗎 ? 當然 。
dna sequencing on your iphone ? there's an app for that .	dna定序在你的iphone上 ? 有一個應用程式 。
personalized genomic massage anyone ?	任何人 , 都有個人基因按摩嗎 ?
there's already a lab today that tests for allele 334 of the avpr1 gene , the socalled cheating gene .	今天已經有實驗室在測試avpr1基因中的alle334 , 也就是所謂的欺騙基因 。
so anybody who's here today with your significant other , just turn over to them and swab their mouth , send it to the lab and you'll know for sure .	轉向他們 , 換到他們嘴巴 , 送到實驗室 , 這樣你就知道了 。
do you really want to elect a president whose genome suggests cardiomyopathy ?	你真的想要選出一位基因組建議心肌病患的總統嗎 ?
now think of it , it's 2016 and the leading candidate releases not only her four years of back tax returns , but also her personal genome .	現在想想看 , 那是2016年 , 第一位候選人不僅釋放了她四年後的稅收 , 也釋放了她的個人基因組 。
and it looks really good .	看起來真的很棒 。
and then she challenges all of her competitors to do the same .	然後她要求所有的競爭者也要這樣做 。
do you think that's not going to happen ?	你認為這不會發生嗎 ?
do you think it would have helped john mccain ?	你認為這會對約翰麥肯有幫助嗎 ?
how many people in the audience have the last name resnick like me ? raise your hand .	在座有多少人有和我一樣的姓氏resnick ? 舉手 。
typically , there's one or two .	通常只有一兩種 。
so my father's father was one of 10 resnick brothers .	我父親的父親是十個resnick兄弟中的一個 。
they all hated each other .	他們都討厭彼此 。
and they all moved to different parts of the planet .	它們都移到地球上不同的區域 。
so it's likely that i'm related to every resnick that i ever meet , but i don't know .	所以可能我和每個我遇見的resnick都有關聯 , 但我不知道 。
but imagine if my genome were deidentified , sitting in software , and a third cousin's genome was also sitting there , and there was software that could compare these two and make these associations .	但想像一下 , 如果我的基因被辨識出來 , 在軟體中坐著 , 第三個表兄的基因也在那兒 , 有軟體可以比較這兩組基因並做出關聯 。
not hard to imagine . my company has software that does this right now .	不難想像 , 我的公司現在就有軟體 。
and so imagine one more thing: that that software is able to ask both parties for mutual consents , " would you be willing to meet your third cousin ? "	所以 , 想像一下:這個軟體可以要求雙方同意 , 「 你願意和你的三表兄見面嗎 ? 」
and if we both say yes , voila ! welcome to chromosomally linkedin .	如果我們都同意 , 哇 ! 歡迎來到染色體linkedin.
now this is probably a good thing , right ?	這或許是件好事 , 對吧 ?
you have bigger clan gatherings and so on .	你有更大的部族集會等等 。
but maybe it's a bad thing as well .	但這也可能是件壞事 。
how many fathers in the room ? raise your hands .	有多少人的父親 ? 請舉手 。
okay , so experts think that one to three percent of you are not actually the father of your child .	好的 , 專家認為你們之中有1%到3%並不是孩子的父親 。
look these genomes , these 23 chromosomes , they don't in any way represent the quality of our relationships or the nature of our society at least not yet .	看看這些基因組 , 這23對染色體 , 它們並不能代表我們的關係或社會的本質 , 至少目前還不能 。
and like any new technology , it's really in humanity's hands to wield it for the betterment of mankind , or not .	像任何新科技一樣 , 它真的包含在人的手中 , 為了人類的改善而用 。
and so i urge you all to wake up and to tune in and to influence the genomic revolution that's happening all around you .	所以我鼓勵大家醒來 , 調整並影響到身邊發生的基因革命 。
daniel kraft demos his marrow miner a new device that quickly harvests lifesaving bone marrow with minimal pain to the donor . he emphasizes that the adult stem cells found in bone marrow can be used to treat many terminal conditions , from parkinson's to heart disease .	丹尼爾克拉夫特的骨髓移除了骨髓的新設備 , 迅速移除捐贈者的骨髓 , 強調骨髓中發現的成人幹細胞能被用來治療很多絕症狀 , 從帕金森症到心臟疾病 。
biology , biotech , health , health care , medicine , science , technology	生物科技、生物科技、健康、醫療保健、醫學、科學、科技、科技、
daniel kraft invents a better way to harvest bone marrow	丹尼爾克拉夫特發明了更好的方法來收割骨髓 。
so i am a pediatric cancer doctor and stemcell researcher at stanford university where my clinical focus has been bone marrow transplantation .	我是一個小兒科癌醫生 , 也是史丹佛大學的幹細胞研究員 , 我的臨床專注就是骨髓移植 。
now , inspired by jill bolte taylor last year , i didn't bring a human brain , but i did bring a liter of bone marrow .	去年jillboltetaylor給了我靈感 , 我沒有帶一個人腦 , 但我帶了一公升的骨髓 。
and bone marrow is actually what we use to save the lives of tens of thousands of patients , most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphoma and some other diseases .	而骨髓其實就是我們用來拯救數萬名病人的生命 , 當中大部分患有較先進的惡性腫瘤 , 如血癌、淋巴瘤和其他一些疾病 。
so , a few years ago , i'm doing my transplant fellowship at stanford .	幾年前 , 我在史丹佛移植手術 。
i'm in the operating room . we have bob here , who is a volunteer donor .	我在手術室裡 , 這裡有bob , 他是志願捐贈的 。
we're sending his marrow across the country to save the life of a child with leukemia .	我們把他的骨髓送到全國 , 以拯救白血病孩童的性命 。
so actually how do we harvest this bone marrow ?	所以 , 我們要如何收集這些骨髓 ?
well we have a whole o . r . team , general anesthesia , nurses , and another doctor across from me .	我們有一整個o.r.團隊 , 麻醉醫師 , 護士 , 我對面還有另一位醫生 。
bob's on the table , and we take this sort of small needle , you know , not too big .	鮑勃在桌上 , 我們拿著這個小針 , 你知道的 , 不是太大 。
and the way we do this is we basically place this through the soft tissue , and kind of punch it into the hard bone , into the tuchus that's a technical term and aspirate about 10 mls of bone marrow out , each time , with a syringe .	基本上 , 我們的方法是將它放在軟組織上 , 將它包進硬骨裡 , 插入tuchus , 每次用針筒吸出大約10mls的骨髓 。
and hand it off to the nurse . she squirts it into a tin .	然後把針筒傳給護士 , 她把針筒注射到一個鐵桶裡 。
hands it back to me . and we do that again and again .	把它交還給我 。 我們不斷重複這個動作 。
about 200 times usually .	大約二百次 。
and by the end of this my arm is sore , i've got a callus on my hand , let alone bob , whose rear end looks something more like this , like swiss cheese .	我的手臂末端是sore , 我手上有通話器 , 更不用說bob了 , 他的屁股看起來像這樣 , 像瑞士起司 。
so i'm thinking , you know , this procedure hasn't changed in about 40 years .	所以我在想 , 你知道的 , 這個程序在40年沒有改變 。
and there is probably a better way to do this .	應該有更好的方法來做這件事 。
so i thought of a minimally invasive approach , and a new device that we call the marrow miner .	所以我想出了一個微不足道的新裝置 , 我們稱之為 「 骨髓採取器 」 。
and the marrow miner , the way it works is shown here .	而這個採礦者 , 它的運作方式在這裡 。
our standard seethrough patient .	我們的 「 看完病人 」 標準 。
instead of entering the bone dozens of times , we enter just once , into the front of the hip or the back of the hip .	與其進入骨頭數十次 , 我們只需要進入一次 , 在臀部前面或後面 。
and we have a flexible , powered catheter with a special wire loop tip that stays inside the crunchy part of the marrow and follows the contours of the hip , as it moves around .	我們有一個彈性的導管利用一個特殊的電線循環機針尖固定在骨髓裡隨着臀部的輪廓移動
so it enables you to very rapidly aspirate , or suck out , rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole .	它能讓你快速地渴望 , 或是快速地吸乾富有的骨髓 , 迅速穿過一個洞 。
we can do multiple passes through that same entry .	我們可以通過同一個入口多次進出 。
and , so , very quickly , bob can just get one puncture , local anesthesia , and do this harvest as an outpatient .	所以 , 很快地 , bob只需要一個穿刺 , 局部麻醉 , 並以病人的身分收割為門診 。
so i did a few prototypes . i got a small little grant at stanford .	所以我做了一些原型 。 我得到史丹佛大學的小額獎助 。
and played around with this a little bit .	稍微玩一下這個
and our team members developed this technology .	我們的團隊成員開發了這項技術 。
and eventually we got two large animals , and pig studies .	最後我們有兩個大型動物和豬的研究 。
and we found , to our surprise , that we not only got bone marrow out , but we got 10 times the stem cell activity in the marrow from the marrow miner , compared to the normal device .	令人驚訝的是 , 我們不但沒有得到骨髓 , 還從骨髓採取的幹細胞活性比正常裝置多出十倍 。
this device was just fda approved in the last year .	這個設備在去年才剛被美國食品及藥物管理局批准 。
here is a live patient . you can see it following the flexible curves around .	這是個活生的病患 , 你可以看到 , 它跟著一個柔軟的曲線移動 。
there will be two passes here , in the same patient , from the same hole .	在同一個病人 , 同一個洞裡會有兩條路線 。
this was done under local anesthesia , as an outpatient .	以局部麻醉為例 , 以門診病人的身分完成 。
and we got , again , about three to six times more stem cells than the standard approach done on the same patient .	比起標準方法 , 在同一個病人身上 , 我們得到了大約三到六倍的幹細胞 。
so why should you care ? bone marrow is a very rich source of adult stem cells .	所以 , 為什麼你要在乎 ? 骨髓是非常豐富的成人幹細胞 。
you all know about embryonic stem cells .	你們都知道胚胎幹細胞 。
they've got great potential but haven't yet entered clinical trials .	他們有很大的潛力 , 但還沒有進入臨床試驗 。
adult stem cells are throughout our body , including the bloodforming stem cells in our bone marrow , which we've been using as a form of stemcell therapy for over 40 years .	成體幹細胞遍佈我們身體各處 , 包括我們骨髓中血液循環的幹細胞 , 我們使用這種幹細胞療法已長達四十年 。
in the last decade there's been an explosion of use of bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient's other diseases such as heart disease , vascular disease , orthopedics , tissue engineering , even in neurology to treat parkinson's and diabetes .	在過去十年裡 , 利用骨髓幹細胞治療患者其他疾病如心臟病、血管疾病、組織工程甚至在神經學上治療帕金森氏症和糖尿病 。
we've just come out , we're commercializing , this year , generation 2 . 0 of the marrow miner .	今年 , 我們剛剛公佈 , 我們正在商業化 。 骨髓採取器的2.0 。
the hope is that this gets more stem cells out , which translates to better outcomes .	希望能得到更多幹細胞 , 讓它們翻譯成更好的結果 。
it may encourage more people to sign up to be potential livesaving bone marrow donors .	可能會鼓勵更多人登記成為能拯救生命的骨髓捐贈者 。
it may even enable you to bank your own marrow stem cells , when you're younger and healthier , to use in the future should you need it .	甚至可能讓你在未來儲存你自己的骨髓幹細胞 , 當你更年輕、更健康時 , 用在未來你需要它 。
and ultimately and here's a picture of our bone marrow transplant survivors , who come together for a reunion each year at stanford .	最後這是一張我們骨髓移植受害者的照片 , 他們每年都會在史丹佛聚會 。
hopefully this technology will let us have more of these survivors in the future .	希望這項技術能讓我們未來能有更多這些倖存者 。
physicist and surfer garrett lisi presents a controversial new model of the universe that just maybe answers all the big questions . if nothing else , it's the most beautiful 8dimensional model of elementary particles and forces you've ever seen .	物理學家和衝浪者garetlisi提出了一個對宇宙的爭議性的新模型 , 它可能會回答所有大問題 。 如果其他 , 它是你見過最美麗的基本粒子和力量的8維模型 。
physics , science , technology	物理、科學、科技 ,
garrett lisi on his theory of everything	伽利特•里西用他對萬物的理論所做的一切理論 。
whoa , dude . check out those killer equations . sweet .	喔 , 老兄 。 看看這些殺手級的方程式 。 甜點 。
actually , for the next 18 minutes i'm going to do the best i can to describe the beauty of particle physics without equations .	在接下來的18分鐘裡我要盡我所能描述粒子物理的美好而不用方程式
it turns out there's a lot we can learn from coral .	事實證明 , 我們能從珊瑚身上學到很多東西 。
coral is a very beautiful and unusual animal .	珊瑚是非常美麗又特別的動物 。
each coral head consists of thousand of individual polyps .	每個珊瑚都有成千上萬的珊瑚樣本 。
these polyps are continually budding and branching into genetically identical neighbors .	這些珊瑚會不斷地繁殖和分裂變成基因相同的鄰居 。
if we imagine this to be a hyperintelligent coral , we can single out an individual and ask him a reasonable question .	如果我們想像這珊瑚是超級聰明的珊瑚 , 我們可以找個人來問他一個合理的問題 。
we can ask how exactly he got to be in this particular location compared to his neighbors if it was just chance , or destiny , or what ?	我們可以問 , 相較於他的鄰居 , 他究竟是如何變成這樣 ? 如果只是機會 , 或者只是命運 , 或者是甚麼 ?
now , after admonishing us for turning the temperature up too high , he would tell us that our question was completely stupid .	在我們收到全球暖化的警告之後 , 他會告訴我們 , 我們的問題完全是愚蠢的 。
these corals can be quite kind of mean , you see , and i have surfing scars to prove that .	這些珊瑚可能是相當重要的 , 你看 , 而我有衝浪疤痕可以證明這一點 。
but this polyp would continue and tell us that his neighbors were quite clearly identical copies of him .	但這珊瑚會繼續告訴我們 , 他的鄰居和他一模一樣 。
that he was in all these other locations as well , but experiencing them as separate individuals .	他和其他地方一樣 , 都和別人一樣 , 但他們也體驗到是不同的人 。
for a coral , branching into different copies is the most natural thing in the world .	對珊瑚來說 , 分支成不同的複製品是世界上最自然的東西 。
unlike us , a hyperintelligent coral would be uniquely prepared to understand quantum mechanics .	和我們不同的是高智商的珊瑚已準備好要了解量子力學 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics very accurately describes how our universe works .	量子力學的數學方法非常準確地描述我們的宇宙如何運作 。
and it tells us our reality is continually branching into different possibilities , just like a coral .	它告訴我們現實世界和珊瑚一樣 , 不斷地分裂成不同的可能性 。
it's a weird thing for us humans to wrap our minds around , since we only ever get to experience one possibility .	對我們人類來說 , 把心思包起來是很奇怪的 , 因為我們只能體驗一種可能性 。
this quantum weirdness was first described by erwin schrödinger and his cat .	這種量子力學的奇特現象最早是由薛丁格和他的貓提出來的 。
the cat likes this version better .	貓更喜歡這個版本 。
in this setup , schrödinger is in a box with a radioactive sample that , by the laws of quantum mechanics , branches into a state in which it is radiated and a state in which it is not .	在這個裝置中 , 薛丁格處於一個放射性樣本的盒子中 , 根據量子力學的定律 , 將分支延伸到一個狀態 , 它是放射線的狀態 , 而這個狀態並不是這樣的 。
in the branch in which the sample radiates , it sets off a trigger that releases poison and schrödinger is dead .	在散布的枝幹中 , 釋放毒氣 , 薛丁格就死了 。
but in the other branch of reality , he remains alive .	但在現實的另一個分支裡 , 他仍然活著 。
these realities are experienced separately by each individual .	每個個體都會接觸到這些實相 。
as far as either can tell , the other one doesn't exist .	不管怎麼說 , 另一個都不存在 。
this seems weird to us , because each of us only experiences an individual existence , and we don't get to see other branches .	這對我們來說很奇怪 , 因為我們每個人的經驗都只是單獨的存在 , 而我們看不到其他的分支 。
it's as if each of us , like schrödinger here , are a kind of coral branching into different possibilities .	彷彿我們每一個人 , 像薛丁格一樣 , 都是珊瑚分裂成不同的可能性 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics tells us this is how the world works at tiny scales .	量子力學的數學理論告訴我們這就是微小世界運作的方式 。
it can be summed up in a single sentence: everything that can happen , does .	可以用一句話來總結:所有可能發生的事 , 都會發生 。
but this does not mean everything happens .	但這並不表示所有事情都會發生 。
the rest of physics is about describing what can happen and what can't .	物理學的其他部分則是描述什麼會發生 , 什麼不會 。
what physics tells us is that everything comes down to geometry and the interactions of elementary particles .	物理學告訴我們一切都可用幾何學以及基本粒子的相互作用
and things can happen only if these interactions are perfectly balanced .	唯有這些互動是完全平衡的才能發生 。
now i'll go ahead and describe how we know about these particles , what they are and how this balance works .	現在我要描述一下我們對這些粒子的了解它們是什麼以及它們的平衡是如何運作的
in this machine , a beam of protons and antiprotons are accelerated to near the speed of light and brought together in a collision , producing a burst of pure energy .	在這個機器中質子和反質子被加速到接近光速的速度然後相撞產生出一股巨大的純能量
this energy is immediately converted into a spray of subatomic particles , with detectors and computers used to figure out their properties .	這種能量馬上被轉換成亞原子粒子的噴射 , 探測器和電腦曾經想出它們的性質 。
this enormous machine the large hadron collider at cern in geneva has a circumference of 17 miles and , when it's operating , draws five times as much power as the city of monterey .	這個在日內瓦歐洲核子研究中心的大型強子對撞機周長有17英里 , 當它在運作時 , 所產生的能量相當於蒙特雷市的5倍 。
we can't predict specifically what particles will be produced in any individual collision .	我們無法精確地預測哪些粒子會在每一次碰撞中產生 。
quantum mechanics tells us all possibilities are realized .	量子力學告訴我們所有可能性
but physics does tell us what particles can be produced .	但物理學告訴我們哪些粒子會被製造出來 。
these particles must have just as much mass and energy as is carried in by the proton and antiproton .	這些粒子的質子和能量一定都是由質子和反質子所帶的 。
any particles more massive than this energy limit aren't produced , and remain invisible to us .	任何的粒子都比這個能量極限所產生的質量都比這個能量極限所產生的質量都更大 , 且我們仍然是看不見的 。
this is why this new particle accelerator is so exciting .	這就是為什麼這種新的粒子加速器如此令人興奮 。
it's going to push this energy limit seven times beyond what's ever been done before , so we're going to get to see some new particles very soon .	它將超越過去七倍的能量極限於能量 , 所以我們很快就會看到新的粒子 。
but before talking about what we might see , let me describe the particles we already know of .	但在談我們可能看到什麼之前 , 先讓我描述一下我們已經知道的粒子 。
there's a whole zoo of subatomic particles .	亞原子的所有動物園都有 。
most of us are familiar with electrons .	我們大多對電子很熟悉
a lot of people in this room make a good living pushing them around .	在這房間裡的很多人過著良好的生活
but the electron also has a neutral partner called the neutrino , with no electric charge and a very tiny mass .	但電子有個中性夥伴叫做微中子 , 沒有電荷 , 質量很小 。
in contrast , the upanddown quarks have very large masses , and combine in threes to make the protons and neutrons inside atoms .	相較之下 , 上夸克有較大的質量 , 把三個夸克結合在一起 , 形成原子中的質子和中子 。
all of these matter particles come in left and righthanded varieties , and have antiparticle partners that carry opposite charges .	所有這些粒子都分成左右兩類 , 還有攜帶相反電荷的反粒子夥伴 。
these familiar particles also have less familiar second and third generations , which have the same charges as the first but have much higher masses .	這些熟悉的粒子還有比較不熟悉的第二代和第三代電量和第一代相同但質量較高
these matter particles all interact with the various force particles .	這些物質粒子都會和不同的力子產生交互作用 。
the electromagnetic force interacts with electrically charged matter via particles called photons .	透過光子 , 電磁力會和帶電粒子產生反應 。
there is also a very weak force called , rather unimaginatively , the weak force , that interacts only with lefthanded matter .	另外還有一種非常微弱的力量叫做微弱的力量只能和左旋的物質相互作用
the strong force acts between quarks which carry a different kind of charge , called color charge , and come in three different varieties: red , green and blue .	夸克之間的強力作用力 , 帶有不同的載荷 , 稱為顏色載荷 , 由三種類別組成紅色、綠色和藍色 。
you can blame murray gellmann for these names they're his fault .	你可以怪murraygellmann , 因為這些名字是他的錯 。
finally , there's the force of gravity , which interacts with matter via its mass and spin .	最後 , 還有重力 , 透過質量和旋轉 , 和物質產生交互作用 。
the most important thing to understand here is that there's a different kind of charge associated with each of these forces .	最重要的是每一種力都對應有不同的載荷 。
these four different forces interact with matter according to the corresponding charges that each particle has .	這四種力通過各自粒子所攜帶的載荷與物質相互作用
a particle that hasn't been seen yet , but we're pretty sure exists , is the higgs particle , which gives masses to all these other particles .	一種還沒被看見的粒子 , 但我們很確定存在的存在 , 是希格斯粒子 , 它給予所有其他粒子的質量 。
the main purpose of the large hadron collider is to see this higgs particle , and we're almost certain it will .	大型強子對撞機的主要目的是要看到希格斯粒子 , 我們幾乎可以確定會如此 。
but the greatest mystery is what else we might see .	但最大的奧秘在於我們還能看到什麼 。
and i'm going to show you one beautiful possibility towards the end of this talk .	我要向你們展示一個美麗的可能性來到演講的尾聲 。
now , if we count up all these different particles using their various spins and charges , there are 226 .	如果我們用不同的自旋和載荷計算出所有不同的粒子總共有226個
that's a lot of particles to keep track of .	可以追蹤的就是許多粒子 。
and it seems strange that nature would have so many elementary particles .	大自然擁有這麼多的基本粒子是很奇怪的 。
but if we plot them out according to their charges , some beautiful patterns emerge .	但如果我們依據他們的載荷把它們畫出來 , 一些美麗的圖案就會出現 。
the most familiar charge is electric charge .	最熟悉的載荷是電荷
electrons have an electric charge , a negative one , and quarks have electric charges in thirds .	電子有電荷 , 負電荷而夸克在三分之一就有電荷
so when two up quarks and a down quark are combined to make a proton , it has a total electric charge of plus one .	所以當兩個上夸克和一個下夸克結合在一起就產生了一個質子 , 它的電荷總共為一個質子 。
these particles also have antiparticles , which have opposite charges .	這些粒子還有反粒子 , 它們也有相反的載荷 。
now , it turns out the electric charge is actually a combination of two other charges: hypercharge and weak charge .	結果發現 , 電荷實際上是另兩種載荷的結合超荷和弱荷
if we spread out the hypercharge and weak charge and plot the charges of particles in this twodimensional charge space , the electric charge is where these particles sit along the vertical direction .	如果我們把超荷和弱荷分開在這個二度載荷空間中畫出粒子的載荷電荷就是這些粒子在垂直方向的位置
the electromagnetic and weak forces interact with matter according to their hypercharge and weak charge , which make this pattern .	電磁力和弱力通過超荷和弱荷與物質相互作用而形成這個模式
this is called the unified electroweak model , and it was put together back in 1967 .	這叫做電弱統一模型 , 於1967年提出 。
the reason most of us are only familiar with electric charge and not both of these is because of the higgs particle .	因為希格斯粒子的緣故我們只對電荷有瞭解卻不是因為希格斯粒子
the higgs , over here on the left , has a large mass and breaks the symmetry of this electroweak pattern .	左邊的希格斯粒子有很大的質量打破了電弱圖案的對稱性 。
it makes the weak force very weak by giving the weak particles a large mass .	它的弱力之所以脆弱 , 是因為它給予弱粒子一個大質量 。
since this massive higgs sits along the horizontal direction in this diagram , the photons of electromagnetism remain massless and interact with electric charge along the vertical direction in this charge space .	由於大量的希格斯粒子在水平方向分佈電磁力的光子仍然沒有質量而且在載荷空間中與電荷相互作用
so the electromagnetic and weak forces are described by this pattern of particle charges in twodimensional space .	所以電磁力和弱力在這個二度空間中通過粒子載荷的型式描述出來 。
we can include the strong force by spreading out its two charge directions and plotting the charges of the force particles in quarks along these directions .	我們可以把強力沿兩個載荷的方向表示出來然後將載荷用夸克形式沿這些方向畫出來
the charges of all known particles can be plotted in a fourdimensional charge space , and projected down to two dimensions like this so we can see them .	所有已知粒子的載荷可以在四度空間中畫出來然後投影到二度空間以便我們能看到
whenever particles interact , nature keeps things in a perfect balance along all four of these charge directions .	每當粒子相互作用 , 大自然就在四個載荷方向上保持完美的平衡 。
if a particle and an antiparticle collide , it creates a burst of energy and a total charge of zero in all four charge directions .	如果粒子和反粒子相撞 , 它會產生能量爆炸 , 四個電荷方向都是零電荷 。
at this point , anything can be created as long as it has the same energy and maintains a total charge of zero .	此時 , 任何東西都可以產生 , 只要能量相同 , 並且保持總載荷是零 。
for example , this weak force particle and its antiparticle can be created in a collision .	比如 , 這個弱子和它的反粒子可以在碰撞中產生 。
in further interactions , the charges must always balance .	進一步的相互作用中載荷必須保持平衡
one of the weak particles could decay into an electron and an antineutrino , and these three still add to zero total charge .	其中一個弱子可以衰退成一個電子和一個反中微子而這三個仍然是零電荷
nature always keeps a perfect balance .	大自然總是保持完美的平衡 。
so these patterns of charges are not just pretty .	所以這些電荷的型式不只漂亮 。
they tell us what interactions are allowed to happen .	它們告訴我們什麼樣的互動是允許的 。
and we can rotate this charge space in four dimensions to get a better look at the strong interaction , which has this nice hexagonal symmetry .	我們可以在四度空間中旋轉載荷空間得到更好的觀察強相互作用它有很好的對稱性
in a strong interaction , a strong force particle , such as this one , interacts with a colored quark , such as this green one , to give a quark with a different color charge this red one .	在強相互作用中 , 強力粒子 , 比如這個 , 會和有色夸克互動 , 比如這個綠色的 , 給夸克一個不同的顏色載荷這個紅色的夸克 。
and strong interactions are happening millions of times each second in every atom of our bodies , holding the atomic nuclei together .	強相互作用每秒鐘會在我們身體的每個原子中發生數百萬次 , 將原子核結合在一起 。
but these four charges corresponding to three forces are not the end of the story .	但和三種力量相對應的這四種載荷還不是終點 。
we can also include two more charges corresponding to the gravitational force .	我們還可以把多兩個載荷放進重力的相對位置 。
when we include these , each matter particle has two different spin charges , spinup and spindown .	當我們將它們納入時 , 每個粒子的旋轉載荷有兩個不同的旋轉載荷、旋轉和自旋向 。
so they all split , and give a nice pattern in sixdimensional charge space .	所以它們全都分開了 , 在六度載荷空間中形成一個很好的圖案 。
we can rotate this pattern in six dimensions , and see that it's quite pretty .	我們可以在六度空間中旋轉這個圖案 , 看看它是很漂亮的 。
right now , this pattern matches our best current knowledge of how nature is built at the tiny scales of these elementary particles .	目前 , 這個圖案符合我們目前對於大自然如何在小尺度下建構的最佳知識 。
this is what we know for certain .	這是我們很確定的事 。
some of these particles are at the very limit of what we've been able to reach with experiments .	其中的一些粒子在實驗中非常受限 。
from this pattern , we already know the particle physics of these tiny scales . the way the universe works with these tiny scales is very beautiful .	從這個模式中 , 我們已經知道這些微小尺度的粒子學 。 宇宙運作的方式是非常漂亮的 。
but now i'm going to discuss some new and old ideas about things we don't know yet .	但是現在我要來談一些關於我們還不知道的新舊觀念 。
we want to expand this pattern using mathematics alone , and see if we can get our hands on the whole enchilada .	我們想要只用數學方法來擴展這個模式 , 看看我們能否把我們的手放到全芝加拿大 。
we want to find all the particles and forces that make a complete picture of our universe .	我們想要找到構成宇宙的所有粒子和力量 。
and we want to use this picture to predict new particles that we'll see when experiments reach higher energies .	我們想用這張圖來預測新的粒子 , 當試驗達到高能量時 , 我們會看到的粒子 。
so there's an old idea in particle physics that this known pattern of charges , which is not very symmetric , could emerge from a more perfect pattern that gets broken similar to how the higgs particle breaks the electroweak pattern to give electromagnetism .	在粒子物理學中有一個古老的想法 , 就是這種不對稱的載荷圖案 , 可能會從一個更完美的圖案中產生出來 , 類似希格斯粒子如何打破了電弱圖案 , 以產生電磁力 。
in order to do this , we need to introduce new forces with new charge directions .	為了達成這個目的 , 我們需要引進新的載荷方向 。
when we introduce a new direction , we get to guess what charges the particles have along this direction , and then we can rotate it in with the others .	當我們導入一個新的方向時 , 我們要猜測在這個方向上粒子的載荷 , 接著我們就可以讓它和其他粒子一起旋轉 。
if we guess wisely , we can construct the standard charges in six charge dimensions as a broken symmetry of this more perfect pattern in seven charge dimensions .	若我們猜對的話 , 我們可以在六度載荷空間中建構標準載荷 , 作為七度載荷空間中最完美的對稱基礎 。
this particular choice corresponds to a grand unified theory introduced by pati and salam in 1973 .	在1973年 , 帕蒂和薩拉姆提出了這個統一理論 。
when we look at this new unified pattern , we can see a couple of gaps where particles seem to be missing .	當我們看到這個新的合成圖案 , 我們可以看到一些粒子似乎缺少的空隙 。
this is the way theories of unification work .	這就是統一理論的原理 。
a physicist looks for larger , more symmetric patterns that include the established pattern as a subset .	物理學家將已有的結構作為子集 , 尋找較大、較對稱的形狀 。
the larger pattern allows us to predict the existence of particles that have never been seen .	這個更大的結構 , 可以讓我們預測從未見過的粒子的存在 。
this unification model predicts the existence of these two new force particles , which should act a lot like the weak force , only weaker .	這種統一模型預測了這兩種新力粒子的存在 , 它應和弱力很相似 , 只是比較弱 。
now we can rotate this set of charges in seven dimensions and consider an odd fact about the matter particles: the second and third generations of matter have exactly the same charges in sixdimensional charge space as the first generation .	我們可以在七度空間中旋轉這個載荷集 , 考慮到關於粒子的奇怪現象:在六度載荷空間中 , 物質的第二代和第三代物質擁有和第一代物質擁有完全一樣的載荷 。
these particles are not uniquely identified by their six charges .	這些粒子的獨特性不是從它們的六個載荷來辨識出來的 。
they sit on top of one another in the standard charge space .	在標準載荷空間中 , 它們會彼此疊加 。
however , if we work in eightdimensional charge space , then we can assign unique new charges to each particle .	然而 , 如果我們在八度載荷空間中工作 , 我們就能對每個粒子分配出獨特的新載荷 。
then we can spin these in eight dimensions , and see what the whole pattern looks like .	然後在八度空間中旋轉看看整體的圖案是什麼樣子
here we can see the second and third generations of matter now related to the first generation by a symmetry called " triality . "	在這裡 , 我們可以看到物質的第二代和第三代通過一種稱作 「 三重性 」 的對稱關係 。
this particular pattern of charges in eight dimensions is actually part of the most beautiful geometric structure in mathematics .	在八度中的這個特殊的載荷圖案 , 其實是數學中最美麗的幾何結構之一 。
it's a pattern of the largest exceptional lie group , e8 .	這是最大的例外說謊團體e8的圖案
this lie group is a smooth , curved shape with 248 dimensions .	李群是光滑曲線形的248維度 。
each point in this pattern corresponds to a symmetry of this very complex and beautiful shape .	圖案的每一點都對應到這個複雜而美麗的形狀的對稱性 。
one small part of this e8 shape can be used to describe the curved spacetime of einstein's general relativity , explaining gravity .	e8的一小部分可以用來描述愛因斯坦廣義相對論中用來解釋重力的扭曲時空
together with quantum mechanics , the geometry of this shape could describe everything about how the universe works at the tiniest scales .	與量子力學一起 , 這個形狀的幾何形狀就能描述宇宙如何以最小的尺度運作 。
the pattern of this shape living in eightdimensional charge space is exquisitely beautiful , and it summarizes thousands of possible interactions between these elementary particles , each of which is just a facet of this complicated shape .	這種圖案存在於八度載荷空間中是如此精緻美麗 , 它可以總結成千上萬的基本粒子間的相互作用 , 每一個都只是這個複雜形狀的一個平面 。
as we spin it , we can see many of the other intricate patterns contained in this one .	當我們轉動它時 , 可以看到其中許多錯綜複雜的圖案 。
and with a particular rotation , we can look down through this pattern in eight dimensions along a symmetry axis and see all the particles at once .	有了特定的旋轉我們可以在八度空間沿一個對稱軸觀察這個圖案同時看到所有粒子
it's a very beautiful object , and as with any unification , we can see some holes where new particles are required by this pattern .	這是個非常美麗的物體 , 就像任何統一一樣 , 我們可以看到一些洞 , 那裡的新粒子是這個圖案所需要的 。
there are 20 gaps where new particles should be , two of which have been filled by the patisalam particles .	新粒子的空隙有20個空隙 , 其中兩個已經被帕翠西亞姆粒子填補過 。
from their location in this pattern , we know that these new particles should be scalar fields like the higgs particle , but have color charge and interact with the strong force .	從圖案的位置 , 我們知道這些新粒子應該是像希格斯粒子那樣的稀少場域 , 但它們有顏色載荷 , 和強力相互作用 。
filling in these new particles completes this pattern , giving us the full e8 .	在這些新粒子中填滿了這個圖案 , 讓我們得到完整的e8 。
this e8 pattern has very deep mathematical roots .	這個e8圖案有著深厚的數學根基 。
it's considered by many to be the most beautiful structure in mathematics .	它被許多人認為是數學界中最美麗的結構 。
it's a fantastic prospect that this object of great mathematical beauty could describe the truth of particle interactions at the smallest scales imaginable .	這個偉大的數學美學之物有個驚人的前景可以在最小的尺度下描述粒子互動的真相
and this idea that nature is described by mathematics is not at all new .	而這個被數學描述的概念 , 並不是新的 。
in 1623 , galileo wrote this: " nature's grand book , which stands continually open to our gaze , is written in the language of mathematics .	1623年 , 伽利略寫道: 「 大自然的孫子書 , 一直敞開我們的凝視 , 都是用數學的語言寫出來的 。
its characters are triangles , circles and other geometrical figures , without which it is humanly impossible to understand a single word of it ; without these , one is wandering around in a dark labyrinth . "	它的角色是三角形、圓形和其他幾何形狀 , 沒有了這些人在人力所能理解的單字 ; 沒有了這些 , 人會在黑暗的迷宮中四處遊蕩 。 」
i believe this to be true , and i've tried to follow galileo's guidance in describing the mathematics of particle physics using only triangles , circles and other geometrical figures .	我相信這是真的我曾試過按照伽利略的指引用三角形圓形和其他的幾何形狀來描述粒子物理學的數學性
of course , when other physicists and i actually work on this stuff , the mathematics can resemble a dark labyrinth .	當然 , 當我和其他物理學家在研究這些東西時數學就像一個黑暗的迷宮
but it's reassuring that at the heart of this mathematics is pure , beautiful geometry .	但確保數學的核心是純粹美麗的幾何學 。
joined with quantum mechanics , this mathematics describes our universe as a growing e8 coral , with particles interacting at every location in all possible ways according to a beautiful pattern .	與量子力學結合 , 這個數學把我們的宇宙描述成一個不斷成長的e8珊瑚 , 每個地方的粒子會根據美麗的圖案在各個地方產生交互作用 。
and as more of the pattern comes into view using new machines like the large hadron collider , we may be able to see whether nature uses this e8 pattern or a different one .	若用大型強子對撞機來觀察更多圖案 , 我們可能會看到 , 大自然使用這種e8圖案或另一種圖案 。
this process of discovery is a wonderful adventure to be involved in .	這個發現的過程是一個奇妙的探險 。
if the lhc finds particles that fit this e8 pattern , that will be very , very cool .	如果對撞機發現了符合e8圖案的粒子那就太酷了
if the lhc finds new particles , but they don't fit this pattern well , that will be very interesting , but bad for this e8 theory .	如果對撞機發現了新粒子 , 但不符合這個圖案 , 那會非常有趣 , 但對e8理論不利 。
and , of course , bad for me personally .	當然 , 對我個人來說也不好 。
now how bad would that be ?	那會多糟 ?
well , pretty bad .	嗯 , 非常糟糕 。
but predicting how nature works is a very risky game .	但預測大自然如何運作是很冒險的遊戲 。
this theory and others like it are long shots .	這個理論和其他類型的理論都是很長的點擊 。
one does a lot of hard work knowing that most of these ideas probably won't end up being true about nature .	一個做了很多辛苦的工作 , 知道大部份這些想法最終可能不會成真 。
that's what doing theoretical physics is like: there are a lot of wipeouts .	理論物理就是這樣子的:有很多的無花果 。
in this regard , new physics theories are a lot like startup companies .	這樣看來 , 新物理理論和新創公司很像 。
as with any large investment , it can be emotionally difficult to abandon a line of research when it isn't working out .	如同任何大型投資一樣 , 在失敗的情況下 , 在情感上很難放棄一系列的研究 。
but in science , if something isn't working , you have to toss it out and try something else .	但在科學上 , 如果沒有用 , 就得要丟掉它 , 嘗試其他東西 。
now , the only way to maintain sanity and achieve happiness in the midst of this uncertainty is to keep balance and perspective in life .	要維持理智並在不確定中獲得幸福 , 唯一的方法就是在人生中保持平衡和觀點 。
i've tried the best i can to live a balanced life .	我已經盡全力去過一個平衡的生活 。
i try to balance my life equally between physics , love and surfing my own three charge directions .	我試著在物理、愛、衝浪中找到平衡 , 用我自己的三個載荷方向 。
this way , even if the physics i work on comes to nothing , i still know i've lived a good life .	這樣一來 , 即使我研究的物理學一點都沒用 , 我仍然知道我過得很好 。
and i try to live in beautiful places .	我試著住在美麗的地方 。
for most of the past ten years i've lived on the island of maui , a very beautiful place .	過去十年我大部分時間都住在毛伊島一個非常美麗的地方
now it's one of the greatest mysteries in the universe to my parents how i managed to survive all that time without engaging in anything resembling fulltime employment .	現在 , 這是我父母最大的謎題之一 , 我是如何在沒有一個全職工作的情況下活下來的 。
i'm going to let you in on that secret .	我要告訴你們這個秘密 。
this was a view from my home office on maui .	這是我在毛伊島的家庭辦公室的照片 。
and you may have noticed that these beautiful views are similar , but in slightly different places .	你可能已經注意到 , 這些美麗的景觀是相似的 , 但在稍微不同的地方 。
that's because this used to be my home and office on maui .	因為這曾經是我在毛伊島的家和辦公室 。
i've chosen a very unusual life .	我選擇了一種很不尋常的人生 。
but not worrying about rent allowed me to spend my time doing what i love .	但不用擔心房租 , 讓我可以花時間做我愛的事 。
living a nomadic existence has been hard at times , but it's allowed me to live in beautiful places and keep a balance in my life that i've been happy with .	有時 , 過著流浪的生活很艱苦 , 但它讓我能住在美麗的地方 , 並在我的人生保持平衡 。
it allows me to spend a lot of my time hanging out with hyperintelligent coral .	它讓我可以花很多時間和超級聰明的珊瑚在一起 。
but i also greatly enjoy the company of hyperintelligent people .	但我也很享受超級聰明人的公司 。
so i'm very happy to have been invited here to ted .	我很高興能被邀請到這裡來ted 。
chris anderson: i probably understood two percent of that , but i still absolutely loved it . so i'm going to sound dumb .	克里斯•安德森:我大概明白其中2% , 但我還是很喜歡它 。 所以我要聽起來很笨 。
your theory of everything garrett lisi: i'm used to coral .	你的萬物理論:我很習慣珊瑚 。
ca: that's right . the reason it's got a few people at least excited is because , if you're right , it brings gravity and quantum theory together .	克:沒錯 。 至少有少數人感到興奮的原因是 , 如果你是對的 , 它會把重力和量子理論結合在一起 。
so are you saying that we should think of the universe , at its heart that the smallest things that there are , are somehow an e8 object of possibility ?	所以你是不是在說我們應該以宇宙為核心去想 , 最小的事物有可能就是e8物體 ?
i mean , is there a scale to it , at the smallest scale , or . . . ?	我的意思是 , 在最小的尺度下 , 會不會有一個尺寸 ?
gl: well , right now the pattern i showed you that corresponds to what we know about elementary particle physics that already corresponds to a very beautiful shape .	gl:嗯 , 我剛剛給你們看的圖案與我們所知的基本粒子物理學已經相對應到一個非常美麗的圖案
and that's the one that i said we knew for certain .	那個就是我說我們很肯定知道的 。
and that shape has remarkable similarities and the way it fits into this e8 pattern could be the rest of the picture .	這個形狀與e8圖案非常相似 , 其精密之處在於其餘的圖案 。
and these patterns of points that i've shown for you actually represent symmetries of this highdimensional object that would be warping and moving and dancing over the space time that we experience .	我給你們看的這些點圖案實際上代表了這個高維物體的對稱性這些圖案會在我們體驗的時空中扭曲、移動、舞蹈
and that would be what explains all these elementary particles that we see .	這就解釋了所有這些基本粒子 。
ca: but a string theorist , as i understand it , explains electrons in terms of much smaller strings vibrating i know you don't like string theory vibrating inside it .	克:但弦理論家 , 如我所知 , 用較小的弦波振動來解釋電子 , 我知道你不喜歡弦理論在它內部振動 。
how should we think of an electron in relation to e8 ?	我們該如何看待e8的電子 ?
gl: no , it would be one of the symmetries of this e8 shape .	不對 , 它會是這個e8圖形的對稱之一 。
so what's happening is , as the shape is moving over spacetime , it's twisting . and the direction it's twisting as it moves is what particle we see . so it would be ca: the size of the e8 shape , how does that relate to the electron ?	所以當這個形狀在時空中移動的時候它扭轉了方向它在移動的時候扭曲了我們看到的粒子 。 所以它是克里斯:e8的大小那跟電子有甚麼關係 ?
i kind of feel like i need that for my picture .	我覺得我需要那張照片 。
is it bigger ? is it smaller ?	會更大嗎 ? 會更小嗎 ?
gl: well , as far as we know electrons are point particles , so this would be going down to the smallest possible scales .	gl:據我們所知 , 電子是點粒子 , 所以會縮小到最小的尺度 。
so the way these things are explained in quantum field theory is , all possibilities are expanding and developing at once .	所以 , 在量子場理論中 , 這些東西的解釋方式是 , 所有的可能性都在同時展開和發展 。
and this is why i use the analogy to coral .	這就是為什麼我會使用珊瑚的比喻 。
and in this way , the way that e8 comes in is it will be as a shape that's attached at each point in spacetime .	如此一來 , e8的進入方式是 , 它就像每個時空點的形狀 。
and , as i said , the way the shape twists the directional along which way the shape is twisting as it moves over this curved surface is what the elementary particles are , themselves .	如我所說 , 形狀在經過這個曲線的表面時 , 扭曲的方向和它扭曲的方向是基本粒子它們自己 。
so through quantum field theory , they manifest themselves as points and interact that way .	通過量子場理論 , 他們以點和相互作用來展現他們自己 。
i don't know if i'll be able to make this any clearer .	我不知道我能不能把這張圖做得更清楚 。
ca: it doesn't really matter .	克:沒關係 。
it's evoking a kind of sense of wonder , and i certainly want to understand more of this .	它激起了我的興趣 , 我當然希望更了解這一點 。
but thank you so much for coming . that was absolutely fascinating .	但非常謝謝你來到這裡 。 這真是太吸引人了 。
the legendary chimpanzee researcher jane goodall talks about tacare and her other community projects , which help people in booming african towns live sidebyside with threatened animals .	很傳奇的黑猩猩研究員珍.古德爾談到塔卡爾和其它社區計畫 , 協助非洲快速發展的小鎮和受到威脅的動物一起住在旁邊 。
africa , animals , biodiversity , environment , global issues , pollution , primates , science	非洲、動物、生物多樣性、環境、全球議題、污染、靈長類、科學 。
jane goodall helps humans and animals live together	珍.古德幫助人類和動物一起生活 。
good afternoon , good evening , whatever .	午安 , 晚安
we can go , jambo , guten abend , bonsoir , but we can also ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh .	我們可以 , 晚安 , 晚安 , 晚安 , 晚安 , 但我們也可以--噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 。
that is the call that chimpanzees make before they go to sleep in the evening .	這是黑猩猩在晚上睡覺前的叫聲 。
you hear it going from one side of the valley to the other , from one group of nests to the next .	你聽到的是從山谷的一端傳到另一端 , 從一群巢穴傳到下一批 。
and i want to pick up with my talk this evening from where zeray left off yesterday .	昨天晚上我想從我的演講中挑選這個 , 這是昨天zeray離開的地方 。
he was talking about this amazing , threeyearold australopithecine child , selam .	他談到這個了不起的三歲靈長類孩子selam
and we've also been hearing about the history , the family tree , of mankind through dna genetic profiling .	我們也曾聽過透過dna基因圖譜來說明人類的歷史、家族樹的人類歷史 。
and it was a paleontologist , the late louis leakey , who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees .	已故的古生物學家路易斯.李奇是他讓我走上研究黑猩猩的路徑 。
and it was pretty extraordinary , way back then .	在當時 , 情況挺不可思議的
it's kind of commonplace now , but his argument was because he'd been searching for the fossilized remains of early humans in africa .	現在已經有些常見了 , 但他的論點是 , 因為他一直在尋找非洲早期人類的化石 。
and you can tell an awful lot about what those beings looked like from the fossils , from the shape of the muscle attachments , something about the way they lived from the various artifacts found with them .	從化石 , 肌肉依附的形狀 , 可以大量地分辨出那些肌肉的外觀 , 關於他們如何與他們共存的各種人造物品 。
but what about how they behaved ? that's what he wanted to know .	但他們的行為呢 ? 他就是想知道 。
and of course , behavior doesn't fossilize .	當然 , 行為不會化石 。
he argued and it's now a fairly common theory that if we found behavior patterns similar or the same in our closest living relatives , the great apes , and humans today , then maybe those behaviors were present in the apelike , humanlike ancestor some seven million years ago .	他主張--這是個很普遍的理論如果我們在現存的近親大猩猩身上找到相似的行為模式 , 如今人類 , 也許這些行為在七百萬年前出現在人猿類的人類祖先身上 。
and therefore , perhaps we had brought those characteristics with us from that ancient , ancient past .	因此 , 也許我們把這些特性從古老的過去中帶到了這裡 。
well , if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution , you very often find people speculating about how early humans may have behaved , based on the behavior of chimpanzees .	嗯 , 如果你看一下今天在教科書中研究人類的進化你會經常發現人們根據黑猩猩的行為來猜測早期人類的行為模式
they are more like us than any other living creature , and we've heard about that during this ted conference .	牠們和我們相似多於其他生物在這場ted大會上我們也聽過
so it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzees are so like us , in certain aspects of their behavior .	所以對我來說 , 我仍然要評論在黑猩猩的某些方面 , 在牠們行為的某些方面 , 黑猩猩是如此地相似 。
every chimpanzee has his or her own personality .	每一隻黑猩猩都有他或她自己的個性 。
of course , i gave them names . they can live to be 60 years or more , although we think most of them probably don't make it to 60 in the wild .	當然 , 我給他們取名字 。 他們可以活到60歲以上 , 雖然我們認為大多數人在野外不會活到60歲 。
mr . wurzel . the female has her first baby when she's 11 or 12 .	烏爾茲先生 。 當雌性十一或十二歲時 , 她的第一個寶寶是女生 。
thereafter , she has one baby only every five or six years , a long period of childhood dependency when the child is nursing , sleeping with the mother at night , and riding on her back .	每五六年 , 她只生了一個小孩 , 童年依賴期很長一段 , 小時候要照顧母親 , 晚上和媽媽一起睡 , 騎在背上 。
and we believe that this long period of childhood is important for chimpanzees , just as it is for us , in relation to learning .	我們相信這段長時間的幼兒期對黑猩猩很重要 , 就跟我們人類一樣 , 與學習有關 。
as the brain becomes ever more complex during evolution in different forms of animals , so we find that learning plays an ever more important role in an individual's life history .	當大腦在不同動物的演化過程中變得更複雜時 , 我們發現學習在個體的生命歷史中扮演著越來越重要的角色 。
and young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do .	年輕的黑猩猩花很多時間觀察長輩的行為 。
we know now that they're capable of imitating behaviors that they see .	我們現在知道牠們有能力模仿他們看到的行為 。
and we believe that it's in this way that the different toolusing behaviors that have now been seen in all the different chimpanzee populations studied in africa how these are passed from one generation to the next , through observation , imitation and practice , so that we can describe these toolusing behaviors as primitive culture .	我們相信這是以這種方式 , 不同使用工具的方式 , 已經在非洲各個黑猩猩族群中觀察到這些行為是如何從一個世代傳到下一個世代 , 模仿和做法 , 如此一來 , 我們就能將這些使用工具的行為描述成原始文化 。
chimpanzees don't have a spoken language . we've talked about that .	黑猩猩們沒有口語的語言 。 我們已經談過了 。
they do have a very rich repertoire of postures and gestures , many of which are similar , or even identical , to ours and formed in the same context . greeting chimpanzees embracing .	牠們的確有很豐富的肢體和姿勢 , 當中有許多和我們相似 , 甚至與我們相同 , 在相同的情境中形成 。 相同的對比 , 和擁抱的黑猩猩 。
they also kiss , hold hands , pat one another on the back .	他們也會互相親吻對方、握手、拍對方背 。
and they swagger and they throw rocks .	它們會大吃一驚 , 會扔石頭 。
in chimpanzee society , we find many , many examples of compassion , precursors to love and true altruism .	在黑猩猩的社會 , 我們發現很多很多有同情心的例子 , 都是有愛的前兆 , 和真正的利他行為 。
unfortunately , they , like us , have a dark side to their nature .	不幸的是 , 就像我們人類一樣 , 牠們也有天生的黑暗面 。
they're capable of extreme brutality , even a kind of primitive war .	他們能夠極度殘暴 , 甚至有點原始的戰爭 。
and these really aggressive behaviors , for the most part , are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group .	而這些極具攻擊性的行為 , 大多時候都是針對鄰近社會群體的對象 。
they are very territorially aggressive .	他們非常激烈
chimpanzees , i believe , more than any other living creature , have helped us to understand that , after all , there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom .	我相信黑猩猩 , 比起其它的生物 , 已經讓我們了解 , 人類和動物王國之間並沒有明顯的界線 。
it's a very blurry line , and it's getting more blurry all the time as we make even more observations .	這是一條非常模糊的線 , 隨著我們進行更多的觀察 , 它變得更加模糊 。
the study that i began in 1960 is still continuing to this day .	我在1960年開始的研究至今仍在進行中 。
and these chimpanzees , living their complex social lives in the wild , have helped more than anything else to make us realize we are part of , and not separated from , the amazing animals with whom we share the planet .	而這些生活在野外複雜的社會生活的黑猩猩們 , 幫助我們去認識到 , 比任何其他東西都還要多 , 我們也是這些令人驚奇的動物的一份子 , 卻沒有被分開 , 那些與我們共享這個星球的生物 。
so it's pretty sad to find that chimpanzees , like so many other creatures around the world , are losing their habitats .	所以發現黑猩猩 , 就像世界上其他生物一樣 , 正在失去牠們的棲息地 。
this is just one photograph from the air , and it shows you the forested highlands of gombe .	這是一張從空中拍攝的照片 , 它是哥倫比的森林高地 。
and it was when i flew over the whole area , about 16 years ago , and realized that outside the park , this forest , which in 1960 had stretched almost unbroken along the eastern shore of lake tanganyika , which is where the tiny , 30squaremile gombe national park lies , that a question came to my mind .	那時我飛越整個地區 , 大約16年前 , 那時我了解到 , 在這個公園之外的這片森林在1960年時幾乎完全沒有被破壞 , 沿著坦岡尼卡的東岸 , 也就是這個小小的 , 30平方公里的岡貝國家公園在此處 , 我突然想到一個問題 。
" how can we even try to save these famous chimpanzees , when the people living around the national park are struggling to survive ? "	「 我們要如何拯救這些知名的黑猩猩 , 當居住在國家公園附近的黑猩猩正掙扎求生 ? 」
more people are living there than the land could possibly support .	更多人居住在那裏 , 遠遠超過這塊土地所能獲得的支援 。
the numbers increased by refugees pouring in from burundi and over the lake from congo .	受難者的數量從蒲隆地湧入 , 剛果湖的難民數量也增加了 。
and very poor people they couldn't afford to buy food from elsewhere .	窮人買不起他們來自其他地方的食物 。
this led to a program , which we call tacare .	這導致了一個計畫 , 我們稱之為坦尚尼亞造林計劃 。
it's a very holistic way of improving the lives of the people living in the villages around the park .	這是個非常整體的方法來改善公園附近村民的生活 。
it started small with 12 villages . it's now in 24 .	從十二個村莊開始 , 現在是二十四個村莊 。
there isn't time to go into it , but it's including things like tree nurseries , methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded , almost desertlike land up in these mountains .	時間不夠多 , 但它包含了一些東西 , 比如樹木的護士、農耕的方式 , 現今最適合這種被降解、幾乎像沙漠一樣的山上土地 。
ways of controlling , preventing soil erosion .	控制與預防土壤流失的方法 。
ways of reclaiming overused farmland , so that within two years they can again be productive .	收回過度使用的農地 , 這麼一來 , 兩年後 , 農地就會再有生產力了 。
working to help the villagers obtain fresh water from wells .	致力於幫助村民從井裡取得淡水 。
perhaps build some schoolrooms .	也許建造一些學校教室 。
most important of all , i believe , is working with small groups of women , providing them with opportunities for microcredit loans .	我相信 , 最重要的是 , 和一些婦女們合作 , 提供她們提供微型貸款的機會 。
and we've got , as is the case around the world , about 95 percent of all loans returned .	如同世界各地的情況 , 有95%的貸款回來了 。
empowering women , working with education , providing scholarships for girls so they can finish secondary school , in the clear understanding that , all around the world , as women's education improves , family size drops .	授權給婦女 , 與教育工作 , 提供獎學金給女孩們 , 這樣她們才能完成中學 , 並且清楚的知道 , 隨著女性的教育改善家庭規模下降 。
we provide information about family planning and about hiv/aids .	我們提供家庭規劃和愛滋病的資訊 。
and as a result of this program , something's happening for conservation .	由於這個計畫 , 有些事情發生在保育上 。
what's happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages , instead of looking on us as a bunch of white people coming to study a whole bunch of monkeys and by the way , many of the staff are now tanzanian but when we began the tacare program , it was a tanzanian team going into the villages .	農民們生活在這24個村落裡 , 而不是把我們當成一群白人來研究一群猴子順便一提 , 很多工作人員現在已經是坦尚尼亞人了 , 但是當我們開始坦尚尼亞造林計劃時 , 坦尚尼亞的團隊屬於這個村莊 。
it was a tanzanian team talking to the villagers , asking what they were interested in .	那是一支坦尚尼亞的團隊和村民交流 , 詢問他們感興趣的 。
were they interested in conservation ? absolutely not .	他們對保育感興趣嗎 ? 絕對不是
they were interested in health ; they were interested in education .	他們對健康有興趣 , 他們對教育有興趣 。
and as time went on , and as their situation began to improve , they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation .	隨著時間過去 , 他們的情況開始改善 , 他們開始更了解保育的重要性 。
they began to understand that as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees , so you've got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides .	他們開始明白 , 隨著山丘的上層被推開樹木 , 所以土壤受到侵蝕和泥土流動 。
today , we are developing what we call the greater gombe ecosystem .	現今 , 我們正在開發一種叫做gombe的生態系統 。
this is an area way outside the national park , stretching out into all these very degraded lands .	這個區域遠在國家公園之外 , 向外延伸到所有被摧毀的土地中 。
and as these villages have a better standard of life , they are actually agreeing to put between 10 percent and 20 percent of their land in the highlands aside , so that once again , as the trees grow back , the chimpanzees will have leafy corridors through which they can travel to interact as they must for genetic viability with other remnant groups outside the national park .	當這些村落擁有更好的生活標準時 , 他們實際上同意將百分之十到二十的高地邊緣的土地放置在外面 , 如此一來 , 當樹木長回來的時候 , 黑猩猩就會有樹葉走廊 , 通過這些地方可以與國家公園外的遺傳物質進行互動 。
so tacare is a success .	坦尚尼亞造林計劃是成功的 。
we're replicating it in other parts of africa , around other wilderness areas which are faced with extreme population pressure .	我們在非洲的其他地方 , 用其他地方來複製 , 用在人口壓力極端的其他野外區域 。
the problems in africa , however , as we've been discussing for the whole of these first couple of days of ted , are major problems .	然而 , 在非洲的問題 , 正如我們在ted的前幾天討論的問題 , 都是很大的問題 。
there is a great deal of poverty .	貧窮的問題非常嚴重 。
and when you get large numbers of people living in land that is not that fertile , particularly when you cut down trees , and you leave the soil open to the wind for erosion , as desperate populations cut down more and more trees , so that they can try and grow food for themselves and their families , what's going to happen ? something's got to give .	當你有大量的居民住在不太肥沃的土地上 , 尤其是當你砍掉樹木 , 你把土壤打開 , 讓土壤被侵蝕 , 因為絕望的人口減少了越來越多的樹木 , 所以他們可以試著為自己和家人種食物 , 會發生什麼事 ? 一定要付出代價 。
and the other problems in not only africa , but the rest of the developing world and , indeed , everywhere what are we doing to our planet ?	還有另一個問題 , 不只是非洲 , 還有其他的開發中國家 , 到處都一樣 , 我們對地球做了什麼事 ?
you know , the famous scientist , e . o . wilson said that if every person on this planet attains the standard of living of the average european or american , we need three new planets .	你知道的 , 著名的科學家 , 愛德華.威爾森曾說過 , 如果地球上每一個人都能遵守標準生活 , 包括歐洲人或美國人 , 我們就需要三個新的星球 。
today , they are saying four . but we don't have them . we've got one .	現今 , 他們有四個說法 , 但我們沒有 , 我們只有一個 。
and what's happened ? i mean , the question here is , here we are , arguably the most intelligent being that's ever walked planet earth , with this extraordinary brain , capable of the kind of technology that is so well illustrated by these ted conferences , and yet we're destroying the only home we have .	到底發生了什麼事 ? 我的意思是 , 問題是 , 我們在這裡 , 可以說是最聰明的生物 , 也是走在地球上最有智慧的生物 , 擁有這種非凡的大腦 , 能夠說明這種技術的效果 , 被ted研討會給描繪出來 , 而我們卻在摧毀我們唯一的家園 。
the indigenous people around the world , before they made a major decision , used to sit around and ask themselves , " how does this decision affect our people seven generations ahead ? "	全世界的原住民 , 在他們做出重大決定之前 , 通常會坐下來問自己: 「 這個決定會如何影響我們七代之後的同胞 ? 」
today , major decisions and i'm not particularly talking about africa here , but the developed world major decisions involving millions of dollars , and millions of people , are often based on , " how will this affect the next shareholders' meeting ? "	今天 , 重大的決定 , 我指的不是非洲 , 而是世界上數百萬美元重大的決定 , 數百萬人 , 通常都是基於: 「 這會如何影響下一次的股東會議 ? 」
and these decisions affect africa .	這些決定會影響非洲 。
as i began traveling around africa talking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests , i realized more and more how so many of africa's problems could be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation .	當我開始在非洲各處旅行 , 談論黑猩猩面臨的問題 , 談到牠們消失的森林 , 我發現越來越多非洲面臨的問題 , 存在於過去殖民時代剝削的門上 。
so i began traveling outside africa , talking in europe , talking in the united states , going to asia .	所以我開始在非洲之外旅行 , 到歐洲演說 , 到美國演說 , 到亞洲去 。
and everywhere there were these terrible problems .	到處都有這些可怕的問題 。
and you know the kind i'm talking about . i'm talking about pollution .	你知道我說的那種 , 我指的是污染 。
the air that we breathe that often poisons us .	我們呼吸的空氣通常會毒害我們 。
the earth is poisoning our foods .	地球正在毒害著我們的食物 。
the water water is perhaps one of the most crucial issues that we're going to face in this century and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural , industrial and household chemicals that still are being sprayed around the world , seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience .	水資源 , 水可能是這個世紀所面臨的最關鍵的議題之一 , 世界各地的水正在被污染 , 被農業、工業和家庭使用的化學物質污染 , 這些化學物質仍然被散播到全世界 , 似乎無法從經驗中獲取過去的利益 。
the mangroves are being cut down ; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse .	紅樹林被砍伐 ; 海嘯的影響更加惡化 。
we've talked about the soil erosion .	我們已經談過土壤流失 。
we have the reckless burning of fossil fuels along with other greenhouse gasses , so called , leading to climate change .	我們有不斷燃燒的石化燃料 , 還有其他溫室氣體 , 導致氣候變遷 。
finally , all around the world , people have begun to believe that there is something going on very wrong with our climate .	最後 , 在世界各地 , 人們開始相信我們的氣候出了問題 。
all around the world climates are mixed up .	全世界的氣候都混在一起了 。
and it's the poor people who are affected worse .	受影響的窮人更差 。
it's africa that already is affected .	非洲已經受到影響了 。
in many parts of subsaharan africa , the droughts are so much worse .	在撒哈拉以南非洲的許多地區 , 旱災愈來愈糟 。
and when the rain does come , it so often leads to flooding and added distress , and the cycle of poverty and hunger and disease .	當雨來了 , 它經常會導致洪水和更多的痛苦 , 還有貧窮、飢餓和疾病的惡性循環 。
and the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support , who are too poor to buy food , who can't move away because the whole land is degraded .	住在土地無法支援的地區 , 貧窮的人無法購買食物 , 也無法搬走 , 因為整個土地都已經退化了 。
and so you get desertification creeping , creeping , creeping as the last of the trees are cut down .	所以當最後一棵樹被砍掉時 , 你會看到沙漠化的現象 。
and this kind of thing is not just in africa . it's all over the world .	這種事情並不只是在非洲 , 在全世界都是如此 。
so it wasn't surprising to me that as i was traveling around the world i met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope .	所以 , 我並不意外 , 當我在世界各地旅行時 , 我遇到許多失去希望的年輕人 。
we seem to have lost wisdom , the wisdom of the indigenous people .	我們似乎失去了智慧 , 失去了原住民的智慧 。
i asked a question . " why ? "	我問了一個問題: 「 為什麼 ? 」
well , do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain , the kind of brain that the ted technologies exemplify , and the human heart ? talking about it in the nonscientific term , in terms of love and compassion . is there some disconnect ?	嗯 , 你認為在這聰明的大腦之間 , 可能有某種隔閡 , 那種ted科技會向我們展示 , 而人類的心臟 ? 用非科學的術語來說吧 , 愛和同情心 , 是否存在某種斷層 ?
and these young people , when i talk to them , basically they were either depressed or apathetic , or bitter and angry . and they said more or less the same thing , " we feel this way because we feel you've compromised our future and there's nothing we can do about it . "	這些年輕人 , 當我和他們談話時 , 他們基本上是憂鬱症、冷漠 , 或苦難和憤怒 。 他們多或少說了同樣的話 , 「 我們會有這種感覺 , 因為我們覺得你已經妥協了我們的未來 , 而我們對它卻無能為力 。 」
we have compromised their future .	我們已經妥協了他們的未來 。
i've got three little grandchildren , and every time i look at them and i think how we've harmed this beautiful planet since i was their age , i feel this desperation .	我有三個小孫子 , 每當我看著他們時 , 我就會想到在我還小的時候 , 我們如何傷害這個美麗的星球 , 我會感到絕望 。
and that led to this program we call roots and shoots , which began right here in tanzania and has now spread to 97 countries around the world .	這就帶到了我們稱為根與芽的計畫 , 這個計畫從坦尚尼亞開始 , 目前已經擴散到全球九十七個國家 。
it's symbolic . roots make a firm foundation .	它有象徵性的意義 。 根有堅定的基礎 。
shoots seem tiny ; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall .	芽看似微小 ; 要到達陽光 , 它們能穿過磚牆 。
see the brick wall as all these problems we've inflicted on the planet , environmental and social . it's a message of hope .	把磚牆視為地球上所有的問題 , 像是環境和社會問題 。 這是希望的訊息 。
hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things .	全世界有成千上萬的年輕人能夠突破身邊 , 為所有生物創造一個更美好的世界 。
the most important message of roots and shoots: every single one of us makes a difference , every single day .	根與芽的最重要的信息是:我們每一個人每天都會做出改變 。
we have a choice . every one of us in this room , we have a choice as to what kind of difference we want to make .	我們有選擇 。 在這房間裡的每一個人 , 我們都有一個選擇 , 來決定我們想要做什麼樣的改變 。
the very poor have no choice . it's up to us to change things so that the poor have choice as well .	貧窮的人沒有選擇 。 這取決於我們要改變現狀 , 窮人也有選擇權 。
the roots and shoots groups all choose three projects .	根與芽的小組全都選了三個計劃 。
it depends on how old they are , and which country , whether they're in a city or rural , as to what kinds of projects .	這取決於他們年齡多大 , 不管在哪個國家 , 不管在哪個城市或鄉村 , 哪種計畫 。
but basically , we have programs now from preschool right through university , with more and more adults starting their own roots and shoots groups .	但基本上 , 我們有從幼兒園到大學的專案計畫 , 越來越多的成年人開始著手進行他們自己的根與芽的計劃 。
and every group chooses , between them , three different kinds of project to make this a better world , recognizing that all these different problems are interconnected and impinge on each other .	每個團體在他們之間做選擇 , 三個不同的計畫 , 讓這個更美好的世界 , 承認這些不同的問題彼此連結 , 並互相影響 。
so one of their projects will be to help their own human community .	所以 , 他們的其中一個計畫就是協助他們自己的人類社群 。
and then , if they're able , they may raise money to help communities in other parts of the world .	接著 , 如果他們能做到 , 他們就能籌集資金來協助世界上其他地方的社區 。
one of their projects will be to help animals not just wildlife , domestic animals as well .	他們的其中一個計畫是要幫助動物 , 不僅是野生動物、家養動物 。
and one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share .	其中一個計畫是幫助我們共有的環境 。
and woven throughout all of this is a message of learning to live in peace and harmony within ourselves , in our families , in our communities , between nations , between cultures , between religions and between us and the natural world .	整體來說 , 編織就是一個學習如何在我們自己、我們的家庭、我們的社區、國家、文化、宗教與自然之間生活的訊息 。
we need the natural world . we cannot go on destroying it at the rate we are .	我們需要自然世界 。 我們不能再以現有的速度破壞自然 。
we not do have more than this one planet .	我們沒有超過這個星球 。
just picking one or two of the projects right here in africa that the roots and shoots groups are doing , one or two projects only in tanzania , in uganda , kenya , south africa , congobrazzaville , sierra leone , cameroon and other groups . and as i say , it's in 97 countries around the world .	在非洲這裡舉出一兩個計畫根與芽的團體正在進行一兩項計畫在坦尚尼亞 , 在烏干達 , 肯亞 , 南非 , 剛果 , 獅子山共和國 , 喀麥隆和其他團體 。 如我說的 , 目前有97個國家正在進行 。
of course , they're planting trees . they're growing organic vegetables .	當然 , 他們種植樹木 , 他們種植有機蔬菜
they're working in the refugee camps , with chickens and selling the eggs for a little amount of money , or just using them to feed their families , and feeling a sense of pride and empowerment , because they're no longer helpless and depending on others with their vegetables and their chickens .	他們在難民營工作 , 他們帶著雞隻賣雞蛋 , 只為了一點點錢 , 或只是用它們來餵飽他們的家人 , 讓他們感到自豪和自主 , 因為他們不再無助 , 不再依靠人們的蔬菜和雞隻 。
it's being used in uganda to give some psychological help to exchild soldiers .	它被用在烏干達 , 給童兵一些心理上的幫助 。
doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves .	做這樣的計畫是把他們帶出自己 。
once again , they're useful members of society .	再一次地 , 他們是有用的社會成員 。
we have this program in prisons as well .	我們在監獄也有這個計畫 。
so , there's no time for more roots and shoots now .	所以 , 現在沒有更多根與芽的時刻了 。
but oh , they're also working on hiv/aids .	但 , 喔 , 他們也在研究愛滋病 。
that's a very important component of roots and shoots , with older kids talking to younger ones .	那是根與芽的重要要素 , 讓年長的孩子和年紀較小的孩子溝通 。
and unwanted pregnancies and things like that , which young people listen to better from other youth , rather than adults .	不想要懷孕 , 諸如此類的 , 年輕人會傾聽其他年輕人的心聲 , 而非成年人 。
hope . that's the question i get asked as i'm going around the world: " jane , you've seen so many terrible things , you've seen your chimpanzees decrease in number from about one million , at the turn of the century , to no more than 150 , 000 now , and the same with so many other animals .	希望 。 我在世界各地都會被問到這個問題: 「 珍 , 你看過很多糟糕的事情 , 你看過你的黑猩猩數量減少了大約一百萬隻 , 在本世紀初 , 到現在不超過十五萬隻 , 許多其他動物也一樣 。
forests disappearing , deserts where once there was forest .	森林不斷消失 , 曾經有森林的地方也消失 。
do you really have hope ? " well , yes .	你真的有希望嗎 ? " 嗯 , 是的 。
you can't come to a conference like ted and not have hope , can you ?	你不能來參加像ted這樣的研討會 , 沒有希望 , 可以嗎 ?
and of course , there's hope . one is this amazing human brain .	當然 , 還有希望 。 其中之一是人的大腦 。
and i mean , think of the technologies .	我的意思是 , 想想看科技 。
and i've just been so thrilled , finally , to come to people talking about compost latrines .	我最後非常興奮 , 能夠來談談堆肥式公廁 。
it's one of my hobbyhorses .	這是我其中一個嗜好 。
we just flush all this water down the lavatory , it's terrible .	我們只是把所有的水往馬桶裡沖 , 真是糟糕 。
and then talking about renewable energy desperately important .	再談到極度重要的可再生能源 。
do we care about the planet for our children ?	我們是否在乎孩子們的星球 ?
how many of us have children or grandchildren , nieces , nephews ?	有多少人有小孩、孫子、姪子、姪子 ?
do we care about their future ?	我們在乎他們的未來嗎 ?
and if we care about their future , we , as the elite around the world , we can do something about it . we can make choices as to how we live each day .	如果我們在乎他們的未來 , 我們身為世界上精英份子 , 我們可以做點什麼 。 我們可以選擇如何過日子 。
what we buy . what we wear .	我們買什麼 。 我們穿什麼 。
and choose to make these choices with the question , how will this affect the environment around me ?	選擇用問題來做這些選擇 , 這對我周圍的環境會有什麼影響 ?
how will it affect the life of my child when he or she grows up ?	當他或她長大後 , 它會如何影響我的孩子的生活 ?
or my grandchild , or whatever it is .	或我的孫子 , 等等 。
so the human brain , coupled with the human heart , and we join hands around the world .	所以 , 人類的腦 , 再加上人類的心 , 然後我們就加入世界各地的手 。
and that's what ted is helping so well with , and google who help us , and esri are helping us with mapping in gombe national park .	這就是ted在幫助我們 , google也幫助我們 , esri也在幫助我們繪製國家公園地圖 。
all of these technologies we can use .	所有這些我們能使用的科技
now let's link them , and it's beginning to happen , isn't it ?	現在讓我們來把它們連結起來 , 它已經開始發生了 , 不是嗎 ?
you've heard about it this afternoon . it's beginning to happen .	今天下午你已經聽說了 , 它已經開始發生了 。
this change , this change . to see change that we must have if we care about the future .	這種改變 , 這種改變 。 如果我們關心未來 , 我們必須看到這些改變 。
and the next reason for hope nature is amazingly resilient .	下一個原因是希望大自然有驚人的韌性 。
you can take an area that's absolutely destroyed , with time and perhaps some help it can regenerate .	你可以把一塊完全被摧毀的區域 , 只要有時間 , 或許還能有幫助 , 就能再生 。
and an example is the tacare program .	而坦尚尼亞造林計劃就是其中一個例子
i told you , where a seemingly dead tree stump if you stop hacking them for firewood , which you don't need to because you have wood lots , then in five years you can have a 30foot tree .	我告訴你 , 如果你停止砍伐木柴 , 那看似已死去的樹木 , 那你就不用因為你有很多木材 , 然後在五年內 , 你可以砍掉一棵三十英呎的樹 。
and animals , almost on the brink of extinction , can be given a second chance . that's my next book .	幾乎在絕種的邊緣上動物可以給第二次機會這就是我的下一本書
it's inspiring . and it brings me to my last category of hope , and we've heard about this so much in the last two days: this indomitable human spirit . this determination of people , the resilience of the human spirit , so that people who you would think would be battered by poverty , or disease , or whatever , can pull themselves up out of it , sometimes with a helping hand , and take their part in society , and take their part in changing the world .	這很鼓舞人心 。 這也帶到了我最後一類希望 , 在過去的兩天中 , 我們已經聽到了很多這樣的事:這種不屈不撓的人類精神 。 人們堅韌的決心 , 人類精神的韌性 , 所以那些你認為會被貧窮、疾病所擊垮的人 , 有時 , 他們自己會被迫離開這個世界 , 讓他們成為改變世界的一份子 。
and just to think of one or two people out of africa who are just really inspiring .	想想那些激勵人心的非洲人 。
we could make a very long list , but obviously nelson mandela , emerging from 17 years of hard physical labor , 23 years of imprisonment , with this amazing ability to forgive , so that he could lead his nation out the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath .	我們可以列出一個很長的清單 , 但很顯然的 , 納爾遜•曼德拉出現於17年的實體勞工身上 , 23年的監禁 , 帶著這不可思議的寬恕去原諒他的國家 , 讓他在沒有血戰的情況下 , 走出了種族隔離的邪惡政權 。
ken sarowiwa , in nigeria , who took on the giant oil companies , and although people around the world tried their best , was executed .	奈及利亞的沙羅維瓦對抗巨大的石油公司 , 雖然全世界的人盡力而為 , 卻被處決了 。
people like this are so inspirational .	像這樣的人是非常鼓舞人心的 。
people like this are the role models we need for young africans .	像這樣的人 , 是我們需要年輕非洲人的典範 。
and we need some environmental role models as well , and i've been hearing some of them today .	我們也需要一些環境角色模範 , 今天我已經聽過其中一些 。
so i'm really grateful for this opportunity to share this message again , with everyone at ted .	所以我很感謝這個機會再次分享這個訊息 , 給ted的每個人 。
and i hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things , especially the roots and shoots program .	我希望我們中的一些人可以聚在一起討論這些事 , 特別是根與芽的計畫 。
and just a last word on that the young woman who's running this entire conference center , i met her today .	最後我要說的 , 是那位管理這整個會議的年輕女子 , 我今天遇到了她 。
she came up so excited , with her certificate . she was [in] roots and shoots .	她拿著證書變得很興奮 。 她是根與芽的證書 。
she was in the leadership in dar es salaam .	她在dressalaam的領導階層 。
she said it's helped her to do what she's doing .	她說這能協助她做她在做的事 。
and it was very , very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people , when they are empowered , given the opportunity to take action , to make the world a better place , truly are our hope for tomorrow .	對我來說 , 非常興奮能夠見到她 , 並看到一個例子 , 當年輕人被賦權時 , 能夠採取行動的機會 , 讓這個世界變得更美好 , 真正成為明天的希望 。
artist dianna cohen shares some tough truths about plastic pollution in the ocean and in our lives and some thoughts on how to free ourselves from the plastic gyre .	藝術家黛安娜•柯恩有一些關於海洋污染的困難事實 , 和我們生活中的一些想法 , 關於如何將我們從塑膠漩渦中解放出來 。
consumerism , global issues , green , mission blue , oceans , plastic	消費主義、全球議題、綠色、任務藍色、海洋、塑膠 。
dianna cohen: tough truths about plastic pollution	黛安娜.柯恩:關於塑膠污染的棘手真相 。
i'm a visual artist , and i'm also one of the cofounders of the plastic pollution coalition .	我是個視覺藝術家 , 我也是塑膠污染聯盟的共同創辦人之一 。
i've been working with plastic bags , which i cut up and sew back together as my primary material for my artwork for the last 20 years .	我一直在跟塑膠袋合作 , 我把塑膠袋剪下來 , 縫合成我作品的主要材料 , 已經有二十年了 。
i turn them into two and threedimensional pieces and sculptures and installations .	我把它們變成二、三維的部分 , 雕塑和裝置藝術 。
upon working with the plastic , after about the first eight years , some of my work started to fissure and break down into smaller little bits of plastic .	大約八年後 , 我和塑膠一起工作 , 我有些工作開始裂解 , 分解成更小的塑膠塊 。
and i thought , " great .	我心想: 「 太好了 。
it's ephemeral just like us . "	跟我們一樣 , 那是短暫的 。 」
upon educating myself a little further about plastics , i actually realized this was a bad thing .	一旦我對塑膠更進一步的教育我意識到這是一件壞事
it's a bad thing that plastic breaks down into smaller little bits , because it's always still plastic .	塑膠分解成小塊是壞事 , 因為總是塑膠分解成小塊 。
and what we're finding is that a lot of it is in the marine environment .	我們發現很多的物質都存在於海洋環境中 。
i then , in the last few years , learned about the pacific garbage patch and the gyre .	接著 , 在過去幾年 , 我了解到太平洋垃圾帶和垃圾漩渦 。
and my initial reaction and i think this is a lot of people's first reaction to learning about it is , " oh my god !	我最初的反應是許多人對此的第一反應: 「 天哪 !
we've got to go out there and clean this thing up . "	我們得走出去清理這個東西 。 」
so i actually developed a proposal to go out with a cargo ship and two decommissioned fishing trawlers , a crane , a chipping machine and a coldmolding machine .	所以我真的提出了一個計劃 , 跟一艘貨物船及兩艘退休的拖網漁船、一座起重機、一台磨碎機和一台冷模機出海 。
and my intention was to go out to the gyre , raise awareness about this issue and begin to pick up the plastic , chip it into little bits and cold mold it into bricks that could potentially be used as building materials in underdeveloped communities .	而我的意圖是要出發到垃圾漩渦 , 提高人們對這個議題的認知 , 然後開始把塑膠拿出來 , 把它做成一點碎片 , 把它壓縮成磚塊 , 讓它們可以被用來當作發展中社區的材料 。
i began talking with people who actually had been out to the gyre and were studying the plastic problem in the marine environment and upon doing so , i realized actually that cleaning it up would be a very small drop in the bucket relative to how much is being generated every day around the world , and that actually i needed to back up and look at the bigger picture .	我開始和實際去過垃圾漩渦的人聊天 , 研究海洋環境中的塑膠問題 , 在做這件事時 , 我了解到 , 要把塑膠清理乾淨 , 和全世界每天產生的垃圾比起來 , 是非常小的比例 , 且我得要退一步 , 看看更大的狀況 。
and the bigger picture is: we need to find a way to turn off the faucet .	更重要的是:我們需要找到方法去關掉水面 。
we need to cut the spigot of singleuse and disposable plastics , which are entering the marine environment every day on a global scale .	我們需要削減一塊一塊使用即丟棄的塑膠 , 它們每天都以全球的規模進入海洋環境 。
so in looking at that , i also realized that i was really angry .	看到這一點 , 我也了解到我很生氣 。
i wasn't just concerned about plastic that you're trying to imagine out in the middle of the pacific ocean of which i have learned there are now 11 gyres , potentially , of plastic in five major oceans in the world .	我不只在乎塑膠 , 你還在試著想像在太平洋中間的海洋 , 我現在知道有11個塑膠垃圾漩渦遍及世界上五個主要海洋 。
it's not just that gyre of plastic that i'm concerned about it's the gyre of plastic in the supermarket .	我關心的不只是這些塑膠垃圾漩渦還有這些超市的塑膠漩渦
i'd go to the supermarket and all of my food is packaged in plastic .	我會去超市 , 所有的食物都是塑膠包裝 。
all of my beverages are packaged in plastic , even at the health food market .	我所有的飲料都是塑膠包裝的即使在健康食品市場也是如此
i'm also concerned about the plastic in the refrigerator , and i'm concerned about the plastic and the toxins that leach from plastic into us and into our bodies .	我也很擔心冰箱裡的塑膠還有從塑膠中滲出的有毒物 , 滲出到我們的身體裡 。
so i came together with a group of other people who were all looking at this issue , and we created the plastic pollution coalition .	所以我和一群其他人一起研究這個問題 , 我們也創造了塑膠污染聯盟 。
we have many initiatives that we're working on , but some of them are very basic .	我們有很多計畫正在進行 , 但有些計畫很基本 。
one is: if 80 to 90 percent of what we're finding in the ocean of the marine debris that we're finding in the ocean is plastic , then why don't we call it what it is .	第一:如果我們在海洋中發現的海洋中有80% ~ 90%的物質是塑膠 , 那為什麼我們不把它稱為是塑膠 。
recycling everybody kind of ends their books about being sustainable and greening with the idea of recycling .	回收 , 每本書的結尾都是關於永續經營和綠色回收這個點子 。
you put something in a bin and you don't have to think about it again .	你只要在垃圾桶裡裝點東西 , 你就不用再想了 。
what is the reality of that ?	事實是什麼 ?
in the united states , less than seven percent of our plastics are recycled .	在美國 , 塑膠回收的比率不到7% 。
and if you really look into it , particularly when it comes to plastic bottles , most of it is only downcycled , or incinerated , or shipped to china .	如果你仔細觀察 , 特別是塑膠瓶大部分只能降級回收 , 或是燒掉 , 或是運到中國去 。
it is downcycled and turned into lesser things , while a glass bottle can be a glass bottle again or can be used again a plastic bottle can never be a plastic bottle again .	它是被降級回收 , 然後變成更少的東西 , 而玻璃瓶可以是玻璃瓶再次使用 , 或者再次使用塑膠瓶 , 永遠不會再是塑膠瓶 。
so this is a big issue for us .	所以這對我們來說是一個大問題 。
another thing that we're looking at and asking people to think about is we've added a fourth r onto the front of the " reduce , reuse , recycle , " three r's , and that is refuse .	另一件我們正在看和要求人們思考的事是我們在 「 減量、再利用、回收 」 前面加上第四個r , 那就是拒絕 。
whenever possible , refuse singleuse and disposable plastics .	總之 , 盡量拒絕用過即丟的塑膠 。
alternatives exist ; some of them are very oldschool .	替代方案是有的 , 有些是非常老派的 。
i myself am now collecting these cool pyrex containers and using those instead of glad and tupperware containers to store food in .	現在我在收集這些很酷的畢氏容器 , 用那些取代掉掉的保鮮盒和保鮮盒 , 來儲存食物 。
and i know that i am doing a service to myself and my family .	我知道我正在為自己和我的家人服務 。
it's very easy to pick up a stainlesssteel bottle or a glass bottle , if you're traveling and you've forgotten to bring your stainlesssteel bottle and fill that up with water or filtered water , versus purchasing plastic bottled water .	要找到一個不銹鋼瓶或玻璃瓶是很容易的 , 如果你要去旅行 , 而你忘了帶個不銹鋼瓶裝水 , 和採用過濾過的塑膠瓶裝水相比 , 要買塑膠瓶裝水 。
i guess what i want to say to everybody here and i know that you guys know a lot about this issue is that this is a huge problem in the oceans , but this is a problem that we've created as consumers and we can solve .	我想對在座的各位說──我知道你們對這件事很了解──這對海洋是很大的問題 , 但這是身為消費者所造成的問題 , 我們可以解決 。
we can solve this by raising awareness of the issue and teaching people to choose alternatives .	我們可以藉由提高對這個問題的認知和教導人們去選擇替代方案來解決這個問題 。
so whenever possible , to choose alternatives to singleuse plastics .	所以 , 盡可能地選擇用過的塑膠替代品 。
we can cut the stem tide the stem of this into our oceans and in doing so , save our oceans , save our planet , save ourselves .	我們可以把這些流向海洋的莖切開 , 如此一來 , 拯救我們的海洋、拯救我們的地球、拯救我們自己 。
this demo from pattie maes' lab at mit , spearheaded by pranav mistry was the buzz of ted . it's a wearable device with a projector that paves the way for profound interaction with our environment . imagine " minority report " and then some .	這張圖是來自麻省理工學院的pattiemaes的實驗室 , 由pranvmgory帶領的 , 是ted的buz 。 它是一個可以穿戴的裝置 , 上面裝有深度的互動效果 。 想像一下 , 「 關鍵報告 」 和一些 。
demo , design , interface design , technology	展示、設計、介面設計、科技、科技 。
pattie maes and pranav mistry demo sixthsense	pattimaes和panavemes是第六感的演示
i've been intrigued by this question of whether we could evolve or develop a sixth sense a sense that would give us seamless access and easy access to metainformation or information that may exist somewhere that may be relevant to help us make the right decision about whatever it is that we're coming across .	我一直對這個問題很感興趣 , 即我們能否進化或發展出第六感──一種能夠讓我們無縫接觸、容易取得代碼或現存的資訊 , 能夠協助我們做出正確的決定 , 決定我們遇到了什麼 。
and some of you may argue , well , don't today's cell phones do that already ?	有些人可能會說 , 現今的手機已經不是已經在做這件事了嗎 ?
but i would say no .	但我會說 , 不 。
when you meet someone here at ted and this is the top networking place , of course , of the year you don't shake somebody's hand and then say , " can you hold on for a moment while i take out my phone and google you ? "	當你在ted與某人見面──當然 , 這是今年最佳的社交場所──你不會和某人握手然後說: 「 你能等一下嗎 ? 我拿出我的手機和谷歌嗎 ? 」
or when you go to the supermarket and you're standing there in that huge aisle of different types of toilet papers , you don't take out your cell phone , and open a browser , and go to a website to try to decide which of these different toilet papers is the most ecologically responsible purchase to make .	或者 , 當你去超市站在那裡 , 用很大的不同型式的衛生紙走道 , 你不會拿出手機 , 打開瀏覽器 , 去一個網站 , 來決定這些不同的衛生紙是最環保的購買方式 。
so we don't really have easy access to all this relevant information that can just help us make optimal decisions about what to do next and what actions to take .	所以 , 我們無法很容易取得所有相關的資訊 , 來協助我們做出最佳決策 , 決定下一步要做什麼 , 要採取什麼行動 。
and so my research group at the media lab has been developing a series of inventions to give us access to this information in a sort of easy way , without requiring that the user changes any of their behavior .	所以我在媒體實驗室的研究小組正在研發一系列的發明 , 以某種簡單的方式取得這些資訊 , 並且不需要使用者改變他們的行為 。
and i'm here to unveil our latest effort , and most successful effort so far , which is still very much a work in process .	我來這裡是要揭開我們最新的努力 , 也是最成功的努力 , 到目前為止 , 這仍然是一個過程 。
i'm actually wearing the device right now and we've sort of cobbled it together with components that are off the shelf and that , by the way , only cost 350 dollars at this point in time .	其實我身上正戴著這個裝置 , 我們已經用現成的零件將它組合起來 。 順道一提 , 現在這個裝置的成本是350美元 。
i'm wearing a camera , just a simple webcam , a portable , batterypowered projection system with a little mirror .	我帶著一台攝影機 , 一個簡單的網路攝影機 , 一個可攜式的電池動力投影系統 , 還有鏡子 。
these components communicate to my cell phone in my pocket which acts as the communication and computation device .	這些元件在口袋裡跟我的手機溝通 , 作為溝通和計算機的功能 。
and in the video here we see my student pranav mistry , who's really the genius who's been implementing and designing this whole system .	在影片中 , 我們看到我的學生 , 帕納•密斯 , 他真的是執行和設計整個系統的天才 。
and we see how this system lets him walk up to any surface and start using his hands to interact with the information that is projected in front of him .	我們看到這個系統讓他走到任何平面上 , 開始用他的手和投影在他面前的資訊進行互動 。
the system tracks the four significant fingers .	系統追蹤這四隻重要手指 。
in this case , he's wearing simple marker caps that you may recognize .	在這個例子中 , 你可能認得到 , 他戴著簡單的標記蓋子 。
but if you want a more stylish version you could also paint your nails in different colors .	但如果你想要比較時髦的版本 , 你也可以把指甲塗上不同顏色 。
and the camera basically tracks these four fingers and recognizes any gestures that he's making so he can just go to , for example , a map of long beach , zoom in and out , etc .	攝影機基本上能追蹤這四隻手指並且辨識出他正在做的任何動作例如 , 他可以直接移動 , 舉例來說 , 長灘的地圖 , 放大和縮小等等
the system also recognizes iconic gestures such as the " take a picture " gesture , and then takes a picture of whatever is in front of you .	這個系統還能辨識出具象徵性的手勢 , 例如拍照的動作 , 然後拍一張你面前的事物 。
and when he then walks back to the media lab , he can just go up to any wall and project all the pictures that he's taken , sort through them and organize them , and resize them , etc . , again using all natural gestures .	當他走回媒體實驗室後 , 他可以走到任何一面牆上 , 將他拍下的所有照片投影出來 , 分析並組織它們 , 將它們放大 , 以此類推 。 同樣地 , 使用自然的手勢 。
so , some of you most likely were here two years ago and saw the demo by jeff han or some of you may think , " well , doesn't this look like the microsoft surface table ? "	有人兩年前可能就在這裡 , 看到jeffhan的示範 , 或者你們有些人可能會想: 「 這不是看起來像微軟的平面電腦嗎 ? 」
and yes , you also interact using natural gestures , both hands , etc .	沒錯 , 你也用自然的手勢互動 , 雙手等等 。
but the difference here is that you can use any surface , you can walk to up to any surface , including your hand if nothing else is available and interact with this projected data .	差別在於你可以用任何表面 , 你可以走到任何平面上 , 包括你的手 , 如果沒有其他表面可以用的話 , 就可以和這些投影出來的資料進行互動 。
the device is completely portable , and can be . . .	這個裝置是可以隨身攜帶的 , 也可以是...
so one important difference is that it's totally mobile .	其中一個重要不同點是它是完全流動的 。
another even more important difference is that in mass production this would not cost more tomorrow than today's cell phones and would actually not sort of be a bigger packaging could look a lot more stylish than this version that i'm wearing around my neck .	另一項更重要的不同點在於 , 量產後的成本明天 , 比現有的手機要貴 , 且設計出來的包裝設計本來可以比我脖子上掛的版本還要時髦很多 。
but other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as tom cruise in " minority report , " the reason why we're really excited about this device is that it really can act as one of these sixthsense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you .	除此之外 , 讓你們其中一些人活在 「 關鍵報告 」 裡看起來像湯姆克魯斯的幻想世界裡一樣酷的幻想世界 , 我們對這裝置感到很興奮的原因 , 是因為它可以作為第六感裝置的其中之一 , 讓你知道在你面前有什麼資訊 。
so we see pranav here going into the supermarket and he's shopping for some paper towels .	所以我們看到帕納進入超市他要買一些紙巾
and , as he picks up a product the system can recognize the product that he's picking up , using either image recognition or marker technology , and give him the green light or an orange light .	當他拿起一個產品 , 這個系統可以辨識出他正在採集的產品 , 使用影像辨識或標記技術 , 給他綠燈或橘燈 。
he can ask for additional information .	他能尋求額外的資訊 。
so this particular choice here is a particularly good choice , given his personal criteria .	所以這個選擇在他個人的標準下 , 是特別好的選擇 。
some of you may want the toilet paper with the most bleach in it rather than the most ecologicallyresponsible choice .	有些人可能想買加入最多漂白劑的衛生紙而不是最環保的選擇 。
if he picks up a book in the bookstore , he can get an amazon rating it gets projected right on the cover of the book .	如果他在書店裡拿起一本書 , 他能取得亞馬遜書局的評分 , 就直接投影在書的封面上 。
this is juan's book , our previous speaker , which gets a great rating , by the way , at amazon .	這是juan的書 , 我們之前的演講者 , 順道一提 , 在亞馬遜得到很好的評分 。
and so , pranav turns the page of the book and can then see additional information about the book reader comments , maybe sort of information by his favorite critic , etc .	所以 , 帕納翻開書頁 , 看得到更多關於這本書的資訊 , 像是讀者評論的資訊 , 可能是讀者最喜歡的評論家的評論 , 等等 。
if he turns to a particular page he finds an annotation by maybe an expert of a friend of ours that gives him a little bit of additional information about whatever is on that particular page .	如果他翻到特定的一頁 , 他會找到我們朋友的註解 , 讓他能得到更多關於那一頁內容的資訊 。
reading the newspaper it never has to be outdated .	閱讀報紙 , 它永遠不會過時 。
you can get video annotations of the event that you're reading about you can get the latest sports scores etc .	你可以用影片來說明你正在讀的事件內容你可以得到最新的運動分數等等 。
this is a more controversial one .	這是一個更有爭議性的議題 。
as you interact with someone at ted , maybe you can see a word cloud of the tags , the words that are associated with that person in their blog and personal web pages .	當你在ted與某人互動時 , 也許你可以看見一團團的標籤 , 和那人相關的單字在他們的部落格和個人網頁上 。
in this case , the student is interested in cameras , etc .	在這個例子中 , 學生對攝影機感興趣 ,
on your way to the airport , if you pick up your boarding pass , it can tell you that your flight is delayed , that the gate has changed , etc .	在你去機場的路上 , 如果你拿起你的登機證 , 它可以告訴你 , 你的航班延遲了 , 登機門也改變了 , 等等 。
and , if you need to know what the current time is it's as simple as drawing a watch on your arm .	如果你需要知道現在的時間 , 就如同在手臂上畫一個手錶一樣簡單 。
so that's where we're at so far in developing this sixth sense that would give us seamless access to all this relevant information about the things that we may come across .	這就是我們目前正在開發第六感能夠讓我們無縫地取得關於我們可能遇到的事物的相關資訊 。
my student pranav , who's really , like i said , the genius behind this .	我的學生帕納 , 就像我說的 , 他是這背後的天才 。
he does deserve a lot of applause because i don't think he's slept much in the last three months , actually .	他的確應該得到很多掌聲 , 因為我認為過去三個月來他沒睡多少 。
and his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either .	他的女朋友可能也對他不太滿意 。
but it's not perfect yet , it's very much a work in progress .	但它尚未完美 , 它還在進步中 。
and who knows , maybe in another 10 years we'll be here with the ultimate sixth sense brain implant .	誰知道呢 , 也許十年後我們會帶著植入腦的終極第六感來到這裡 。
phyllis rodriguez and aicha elwafi have a powerful friendship born of unthinkable loss . rodriguez' son was killed in the world trade center attacks on september 11 , 2001 ; elwafi's son zacarias moussaoui was convicted of a role in those attacks and is serving a life sentence . in hoping to find peace , these two moms have come to understand and respect one another .	phyllisrodriguez和aichaelwafi有力的友誼是出生於難以想像的損失 。 rodriguez的兒子在2001年9月11日 , 在世界貿易中心攻擊上被殺害 ; elwafi的兒子zaussaoui被定罪於襲擊中扮演一個角色 , 並為一個終身找到和平的終生 。
culture , global issues , politics	文化、全球議題、政治、政治 。
9/11 healing: the mothers who found forgiveness , friendship	911修復:找到寬恕的母親、友誼的母親 。
phyllis rodriguez: we are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship .	phyllisrodriguez:我們今天來到這裡 , 是因為我們有大多數人認為不尋常的友誼 。
and yet , it feels natural to us now .	但 , 現在我們覺得很自然 。
i first learned that my son had been in the world trade center on the morning of september 11th , 2001 .	我第一次發現我的兒子在世界貿易中心 , 那是在2001年9月11日的早上 。
we didn't know if he had perished yet until 36 hours later .	我們不知道他是否死了 , 直到36小時後 。
at the time , we knew that it was political .	當時 , 我們知道那是政治的 。
we were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son my husband , orlando , and i and our family .	我們害怕我們的國家將會做些什麼事以我們兒子之名--我的丈夫 , 奧蘭多 , 我和我的家人 。
and when i saw it and yet , through the shock , the terrible shock , and the terrible explosion in our lives , literally , we were not vengeful .	當我看到---雖然 , 很震驚 , 很恐怖的震驚 , 我們生活中可怕的爆炸 , 真的 , 我們沒有復仇 。
and a couple of weeks later when zacarias moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism , and the u . s . government called for a death penalty for him , if convicted , my husband and i spoke out in opposition to that , publicly .	幾個星期後當zacariasmoussaoui被指控六項恐怖主義的陰謀時 , 美國政府要求對他判處死刑如果罪名是 , 我和我丈夫公開反對這個說法 。
through that and through human rights groups , we were brought together with several other victims' families .	透過這些以及透過人權團體 , 我們和其他受害者家屬團結在一起 。
when i saw aicha in the media , coming over when her son was indicted , and i thought , " what a brave woman .	當我在媒體上看到aicha , 當她的兒子被起訴時 , 她走過來 , 我心想: 「 多麼勇敢的女人 。
someday i want to meet that woman when i'm stronger . "	有一天 , 當我更強壯時 , 我想和那位女士見面 。 」
i was still in deep grief ; i knew i didn't have the strength .	我還在深深的悲慟中 ; 我知道我沒有力量 。
i knew i would find her someday , or we would find each other .	我知道有一天我會找到她 , 或我們會找到彼此 。
because , when people heard that my son was a victim , i got immediate sympathy .	因為 , 當人們聽到我的兒子是受害者 , 我馬上就得到同情 。
but when people learned what her son was accused of , she didn't get that sympathy .	但當人們知道她兒子被指控的事 , 她沒有得到那種同情 。
but her suffering is equal to mine .	但她的痛苦和我是平等的 。
so we met in november 2002 , and aicha will now tell you how that came about .	我們在2002年11月相遇 , 現在aicha會告訴你這一切是如何發生的 。
aicha elwafi: good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen .	aichael-wafi:午安 , 各位先生女士 。
i am the mother of zacarias moussaoui .	我是zacariasmoussaoui之母
and i asked the organization of human rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims .	我要求人權組織讓我去接觸那些受害者的父母 。
so they introduced me to five families .	所以他們介紹我給五個家庭認識 。
and i saw phyllis , and i watched her .	我看到phyllis , 我看著她 。
she was the only mother in the group .	她是這群人中唯一的母親 。
the others were brothers , sisters .	其他都是兄弟姊妹
and i saw in her eyes that she was a mother , just like me .	我看到在她的眼裡 , 她是母親 , 跟我一樣 。
i suffered a lot as a mother .	身為母親 , 我常受苦 。
i was married when i was 14 .	我十四歲時結了婚 。
i lost a child when i was 15 , a second child when i was 16 .	我十五歲時失去了一個孩子 , 我十六歲時失去了第二個孩子 。
so the story with zacarias was too much really .	所以 , zacarias的故事實在太過分了 。
and i still suffer , because my son is like he's buried alive .	我仍然很痛苦 , 因為我兒子就像被埋了一樣 。
i know she really cried for her son .	我知道她真的為她的兒子哭了 。
but she knows where he is .	但她知道他在哪裡 。
my son , i don't know where he is .	我的兒子 , 我不知道他在哪裡 。
i don't know if he's alive . i don't know if he's tortured .	我不知道他是否還活著 , 我不知道他是否受到折磨 。
i don't know what happened to him .	我不知道他發生了什麼事 。
so that's why i decided to tell my story , so that my suffering is something positive for other women .	這就是為什麼我決定要說我的故事 , 這樣我的苦難對其他女性來說是正面的 。
for all the women , all the mothers that give life , you can give back , you can change .	所有婦女 , 所有賦予生命的母親 , 你可以回饋 , 你可以改變 。
it's up to us women , because we are women , because we love our children .	這取決於我們女人 , 因為我們是女人 , 因為我們愛我們的孩子 。
we must be handinhand and do something together .	我們一定要手牽手一起做些事情 。
it's not against women , it's for us , for us women , for our children .	這不是反對女性 , 而是為了我們 , 為我們女人 , 為了我們的孩子 。
i talk against violence , against terrorism .	我反對暴力 , 反對恐怖主義 。
i go to schools to talk to young , muslim girls so they don't accept to be married against their will very young .	我去學校跟年輕的穆斯林女孩說話 , 這樣他們才不會接受結婚 , 不符合他們的意願 。
so if i can save one of the young girls , and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as i did , well this is something good .	所以 , 如果我能拯救其中一位年輕女孩 , 盡量避免她們結婚、受苦 , 嗯 , 這是件好事 。
this is why i'm here in front of you .	這就是為什麼我會站在你們面前 。
pr: i would like to say that i have learned so much from aicha , starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members which was a very private meeting with security , because it was november 2002 , and , frankly , we were afraid of the superpatriotism of that time in the country those of us family members .	pr:我想說我從aicha身上學到很多 , 從那天開始 , 我們第一次和其他家庭成員見面是非常私人的 , 安全是2002年11月 , 老實說 , 我們害怕當時國家裡的超級愛國主義者 。
but we were all so nervous .	但我們都好緊張 。
" why does she want to meet us ? "	「 她為什麼想和我們見面 ? 」
and then she was nervous .	然後她就緊張了 。
" why did we want to meet her ? "	「 為什麼我們要和她見面 ? 」
what did we want from each other ?	我們希望對方得到什麼 ?
before we knew each others' names , or anything , we had embraced and wept .	在我們知道彼此的名字或其他東西之前 , 我們已經擁抱和哭泣 。
then we sat in a circle with support , with help , from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation .	然後我們就圍成一圈 , 帶著支持和幫助 , 人們體驗到了這種和解 。
and aicha started , and she said , " i don't know if my son is guilty or innocent , but i want to tell you how sorry i am for what happened to your families .	aicha從頭開始 , 她說: 「 我不知道我的兒子是有罪還是無罪 , 但我想告訴你們 , 我對你們家人的遭遇有多麼不好意思 。
i know what it is to suffer , and i feel that if there is a crime , a person should be tried fairly and punished . "	我知道痛苦是什麼 , 且我覺得 , 如果犯罪發生 , 應該要被公平對待、被懲罰 。 」
but she reached out to us in that way , and it was , i'd like to say , it was an icebreaker .	但她以那種方式接觸我們 , 我想說 , 那是個破冰的人 。
and what happened then is we all told our stories , and we all connected as human beings .	接下來發生的是 , 我們都說了自己的故事 , 我們都以人類的身分來連結 。
by the end of the afternoon it was about three hours after lunch we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever .	下午完結的時候 , 大概是午餐後的三小時 , 我們覺得好像彼此認識了很久 。
now what i learned from her , is a woman , not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then , and what was being done to her son , but the life she's had .	我從她身上學到的是 , 一個女人 , 不單止是她可以如此的寬容即使在當時的處境和當時的處境 , 和正在對她兒子做的事 , 甚至她的生活 。
i never had met someone with such a hard life , from such a totally different culture and environment from my own .	我從來沒有遇過這麼艱苦的人生 , 從一個完全不同的文化和環境 。
and i feel that we have a special connection , which i value very much .	我覺得我們有一種特殊的連結 , 我很重視它 。
and i think it's all about being afraid of the other , but making that step and then realizing , " hey , this wasn't so hard .	我認為這一切都是關於害怕對方 , 但踏出這一步 , 然後了解到: 「 嘿 , 這不是很困難 。
who else can i meet that i don't know , or that i'm so different from ? "	還有誰能跟我見面 , 我不知道 , 或跟我很不一樣 ? 」
so , aicha , do you have a couple of words for conclusion ?	所以 , aicha , 你有幾個字可以得出結論嗎 ?
because our time is up .	因為我們的時間到了 。
aw: i wanted to say that we have to try to know other people , the other .	aw:我想說我們得要試著去認識其他人 , 其他人 。
you have to be generous , and your hearts must be generous , your mind must be generous .	你要寬容 , 你的心也要寬容 , 你的心也要寬容 。
you must be tolerant .	你一定要寬容 。
you have to fight against violence .	你必須對抗暴力 。
and i hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other .	我希望有一天我們都能和平地生活在一起 , 互相尊重 。
this is what i wanted to say .	這就是我想說的 。
too much of the world lacks access to clean drinking water . engineer michael pritchard did something about it inventing the portable lifesaver filter , which can make the most revolting water drinkable in seconds . an amazing demo from tedglobal 2009 .	世界上太多地方無法取得乾淨的飲用水了 。 工程師麥可.普立查對此採取一些行動 , 發明了可攜式的生命保護過濾器 , 在幾秒鐘之內 , 就能讓最令人振奮的水源喝水 。 2009年tedglobal的演示是非常驚人的 。
business , demo , design , global issues , invention , technology , water	商業、展示設計、全球議題、發明、科技、水資源 。
michael pritchard's water filter turns filthy water drinkable	michaelprichard的水過濾器讓骯髒的水變成可以飲用的 。
i'd like to talk about a couple of things today .	今天我想談幾件事 。
the first thing is water .	第一是水 。
now i see you've all been enjoying the water that's been provided for you here at the conference , over the past couple of days .	現在我看到你們都在享受著會議中的水 , 在過去幾天 , 在會議中提供給你們的水 。
and i'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source .	我相信你們會覺得它的來源是安全的 。
but what if it wasn't ?	但如果它不是呢 ?
what if it was from a source like this ?	如果它是來自這樣的來源呢 ?
then statistics would actually say that half of you would now be suffering with diarrhea .	然後統計數字會說你們之中有一半的人現在都在腹瀉中受苦 。
i talked a lot in the past about statistics , and the provision of safe drinking water for all .	我在過去談了很多關於統計和提供所有人安全的飲用水 。
but they just don't seem to get through .	但它們似乎沒能熬過 。
and i think i've worked out why .	我想我找出原因了 。
it's because , using current thinking , the scale of the problem just seems too huge to contemplate solving .	因為 , 用當前的想法 , 這個問題的規模似乎太大了 , 無法想像要解決 。
so we just switch off: us , governments and aid agencies .	所以我們就放棄:我們、政府 , 和援助機構 。
well , today , i'd like to show you that through thinking differently , the problem has been solved .	今天 , 我想告訴各位 , 透過不同的思考方式 , 問題已經被解決了 。
by the way , since i've been speaking , another 13 , 000 people around the world are suffering now with diarrhea .	順道一提 , 從我開始演講到現在 , 全世界還有1萬3千人正在腹瀉中受苦 。
and four children have just died .	四個孩子剛剛死去 。
i invented lifesaver bottle because i got angry .	我發明了lifesaver濾水瓶是因為我很憤怒 。
i , like most of you , was sitting down , the day after christmas in 2004 , when i was watching the devastating news of the asian tsunami as it rolled in , playing out on tv .	我和大部分人一樣 , 就是坐下 , 2004年聖誕節的隔天 , 我看著電視不斷報導亞洲海嘯摧毀性的新聞 , 當時我正在電視上播放 。
the days and weeks that followed , people fleeing to the hills , being forced to drink contaminated water or face death .	接下來的幾週 , 人們逃到山丘上 , 被迫喝被污染的水 , 或面臨死亡 。
that really stuck with me .	這一直困擾著我 。
then , a few months later , hurricane katrina slammed into the side of america .	幾個月後 , 卡崔娜颶風往美國衝刺了 。
" okay , " i thought , " here's a first world country , let's see what they can do . "	「 好吧 , 」 我心想: 「 這是第一個世界國家 , 我們來看看他們能做什麼 。 」
do you know it took five days to get water to the superdome ?	你知道要花五天才能把水送到超級主體嗎 ?
people were shooting each other on the streets for tv sets and water .	人們在街上互相開槍 , 只為了電視機和水 。
that's when i decided i had to do something .	那時 , 我決定我得要做點什麼 。
now i spent a lot of time in my garage , over the next weeks and months , and also in my kitchen much to the dismay of my wife .	接下來的數個月 , 我在車庫裡待了很多時間 , 廚房裡令我妻子感到很沮喪 。
however , after a few failed prototypes , i finally came up with this , the lifesaver bottle .	然而 , 經過一些失敗的原型之後 , 我終於做出了這個 , 生命安全瓶 。
okay , now for the science bit .	好 , 現在來談談科學 。
before lifesaver , the best hand filters were only capable of filtering down to about 200 nanometers .	在lifesaver濾水瓶之前 , 最好的手動過濾器只能過濾小至200奈米 。
the smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers .	最小的細菌大約200奈米 。
so a 200nanometer bacteria is going to get through a 200nanometer hole .	所以一個200奈米的細菌將會穿過一個200奈米大的洞 。
the smallest virus , on the other hand , is about 25 nanometers .	另一方面 , 最小的病毒大約是25奈米 。
so that's definitely going to get through those 200 nanometer holes .	這絕對會穿過那些200奈米大的洞 。
lifesaver pores are 15 nanometers .	救生員的氣孔是15奈米 。
so nothing is getting through .	所以沒有任何東西走完了 。
okay , i'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration .	好 , 我來示範一下 。
would you like to see that ?	你想看到這個嗎 ?
i spent all the time setting this up , so i guess i should .	我花了很多時間準備它 , 所以我猜我應該試試看 。
we're in the fine city of oxford .	我們住在美好的牛津城裡 。
so someone's done that up .	有人就這麼做了 。
fine city of oxford , so what i've done is i've gone and got some water from the river cherwell , and the river thames , that flow through here . and this is the water .	美好的牛津城 , 我做的是從河裡的陳列帶了一些水 , 還有河流的泰姆斯 , 流過這裡 。 這就是水 。
but i got to thinking , you know , if we were in the middle of a flood zone in bangladesh , the water wouldn't look like this .	但我必須去想 , 你知道嗎 , 如果我們身在孟加拉一帶洪水區的中間 , 水不會像這樣 。
so i've gone and got some stuff to add into it .	所以我拿了一些東西來加進去 。
and this is from my pond .	這是從我池塘拿來的 。
have a smell of that , mister cameraman .	聞一下吧 , 攝影師先生 。
we're just going to pour that in there .	我們就把它倒進去 。
michael pritchard: okay . we've got some runoff from a sewage plant farm .	麥可.普立查:好的 , 我們還有一些從污水處理場流出的 。
so i'm just going to put that in there .	我把它放進去 。
put that in there . there we go .	把它放進去 。 就是這樣 。
and some other bits and pieces , chuck that in there .	還有其它的位元和碎片 , 把它放進去 。
and i've got a gift here from a friend of mine's rabbit .	我這裡有一位朋友的兔子送的禮物 。
so we're just going to put that in there as well .	所以我們也把它放進去 。
the lifesaver bottle works really simply .	lifesaver濾水瓶的運作非常簡單 。
you just scoop the water up .	你只要把水往上爬 。
today i'm going to use a jug just to show you all . let's get a bit of that poo in there .	今天我要用一個水壺來展示給大家看 。 讓我們來一點點大便 。
that's not dirty enough . let's just stir that up a little bit .	這還不夠髒 。 我們稍微攪拌一下 。
okay , so i'm going to take this really filthy water , and put it in here . do you want a drink yet ?	好 , 現在我要把這個很骯髒的水放進這個水裡 。 你要喝嗎 ?
okay . there we go .	好了 , 來吧 。
give it a few pumps . okay ?	給它一些泵 。 好嗎 ?
that's all that's necessary .	這些就是必要的 。
now as soon as i pop the teat , sterile drinking water is going to come out .	一旦我把茶拉出來 , 無菌的飲用水就會流出來 。
i've got to be quick . okay , ready ?	準備好了嗎 ?
there we go . mind the electrics .	好了 , 小心電器 。
that is safe , sterile drinking water .	這樣很安全 , 無菌的飲用水 。
there you go chris .	來吧克里斯 。
what's it taste of ?	它的味道是什麼 ?
let's see chris's program throughout the rest of the show . okay ?	我們來看看克里斯在接下來的節目裡的節目 。 好嗎 ?
okay . lifesaver bottle is used by thousands of people around the world .	世界各地有數千人使用lifesaver濾水瓶
it'll last for 6 , 000 liters .	可以維持6000公升
and when it's expired , using failsafe technology , the system will shut off , protecting the user .	當它過期時 , 使用故障安全的技術 , 系統就會關閉 , 保護使用者 。
pop the cartridge out . pop a new one in .	將內筒取出 , 換一個新的進去 。
it's good for another 6 , 000 liters .	可以再增加6 , 000公升 。
so let's look at the applications .	咱們來看看這些應用 。
traditionally , in a crisis , what do we do ?	傳統上 , 在危機中 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
then , after a few weeks , we set up camps .	幾個禮拜後 , 我們建立營地 。
and people are forced to come into the camps to get their safe drinking water .	人們被迫來到難民營取得安全的飲用水 。
what happens when 20 , 000 people congregate in a camp ?	當兩萬人聚集在營地時會發生什麼事 ?
diseases spread . more resources are required .	疾病傳播 , 需要更多的資源
the problem just becomes selfperpetuating .	問題只在於自行複製 。
but by thinking differently , and shipping these , people can stay put .	但換種方式思考 , 運送這些資訊 , 人們就可以留在原地 。
they can make their own sterile drinking water , and start to get on with rebuilding their homes and their lives .	他們可以自行製造無菌飲用水 , 並開始重建他們的家園和生活 。
now , it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work .	這並不需要天然災害才可行 。
using the old thinking , of national infrastructure and pipe work , is too expensive .	用舊的想法 , 國家基礎建設和管道工程的費用實太昂貴了
when you run the numbers on a calculator , you run out of noughts .	當你計算機運算時 , 你的運算能力不夠 。
so here is the " thinking different " bit .	這就是 「 用不同想法 」 的部份 。
instead of shipping water , and using manmade processes to do it , let's use mother nature . she's got a fantastic system .	與其運送水和使用人造過程來運送 , 讓我們使用大自然 。 她有一個很棒的系統 。
she picks the water up from there , desalinates it , for free , transports it over there , and dumps it onto the mountains , rivers , and streams .	她從上面取水 , 免費淡化水 , 運送到那裡 , 把水傾倒在山上、河流和溪流上 。
and where do people live ? near water .	人們住在哪裡 ? 鄰近水源的地方 。
all we've go to do is make it sterile . how do we do that ?	我們要做的就是讓它消毒 。 我們要怎麼做呢 ?
well , we could use the lifesaver bottle .	我們可以使用lifesaver濾水瓶 。
or we could use one of these .	或者我們也可以用這一種 。
the same technology , in a jerry can .	同樣的技術 , 裝在五加侖罐子裡 。
this will process 25 , 000 liters of water ; that's good enough for a family of four , for three years .	這會處理二萬五千公升的水 , 這足夠一個四人家庭使用三年 。
and how much does it cost ?	要花多少錢 ?
about half a cent a day to run .	每天大約只需半分錢 。
so , by thinking differently , and processing water at the point of use , mothers and children no longer have to walk four hours a day to collect their water .	所以 , 用不同的方式思考 , 在用水時處理水 , 母親和孩子們不再需要每天走四小時來取得他們的用水 。
they can get it from a source nearby .	他們可以從附近的資源取得它 。
so with just eight billion dollars , we can hit the millennium goal's target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water .	只要花八十億美元 , 我們就能達到千禧目標的目標 , 讓無法取得安全飲用水的人數減半 。
to put that into context , the u . k . government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid .	具體而言 , 英國政府每年花大約120億英鎊在國外援助上 。
but why stop there ?	但 , 為什麼會停在這裡 ?
with 20 billion dollars , everyone can have access to safe drinking water .	有了200億美元 , 每個人都能取得安全的飲用水 。
so the threeandahalf billion people that suffer every year as a result , and the two million kids that die every year , will live .	結果是每年因此受苦的三十五億人 , 每年死亡的兩百萬名孩童會活下來 。
paddy ashdown claims that we are living in a moment in history where power is changing in ways it never has before . in a spellbinding talk at tedxbrussels he outlines the three major global shifts that he sees coming .	paddyashown聲稱我們活在歷史的某個時刻 , 權力正以前所未有的方式變化 。 在tedxbrusel的演講中 , 他發表了他為期三大全球性變化 。
foreign policy , global issues , politics , world cultures	外交政策、全球議題、政治、世界文化 ,
paddy ashdown: the global power shift	paddyashown:全球權力轉移 。
there's a poem written by a very famous english poet at the end of the 19th century .	有首詩是十九世紀末由一位非常有名的英國詩人所寫的
it was said to echo in churchill's brain in the 1930s .	它在1930年代被告知要在教堂的腦中迴盪 。
and the poem goes: " on the idle hill of summer , lazy with the flow of streams , hark i hear a distant drummer , drumming like a sound in dreams , far and near and low and louder on the roads of earth go by , dear to friend and food to powder , soldiers marching , soon to die . "	這首詩是這麼寫的: 「 夏日的山丘上 , 躺在潮流之中 , 我聽見遠方的鼓聲 , 像夢裡的聲音一樣 , 遠、近、低沉、大聲說出來 , 在地球的道路上 , 親愛的朋友、食物 , 走到粉末的路上 , 很快就要死 。 」
those who are interested in poetry , the poem is " a shropshire lad " written by a . e . housman .	那些對詩很感興趣的人 , 這首詩的作者是一位shropshirelad的作家 , 由一位e.e.豪斯曼所寫 。
but what housman understood , and you hear it in the symphonies of nielsen too , was that the long , hot , silvan summers of stability of the 19th century were coming to a close , and that we were about to move into one of those terrifying periods of history when power changes .	但是 , 豪斯曼所領悟到的 , 你也在尼爾森交響曲中聽過 , 那是十九世紀那漫長 , 炎熱的夏天 , 卻是近距離的 , 我們即將進入歷史上最恐怖的時期之一 , 那時的權力正在改變 。
and these are always periods , ladies and gentlemen , accompanied by turbulence , and all too often by blood .	各位先生女士這些日子總是伴隨著騷動偶爾也會有血
and my message for you is that i believe we are condemned , if you like , to live at just one of those moments in history when the gimbals upon which the established order of power is beginning to change and the new look of the world , the new powers that exist in the world , are beginning to take form .	我給你們的訊息是 , 我相信我們被譴責 , 若你們願意 , 只活在歷史上的那些時刻 , 當那些已經建立的權力秩序發生改變的時刻 , 以及這個世界的新樣貌 , 那些存在於世界上的新權力開始成形 。
and these are and we see it very clearly today nearly always highly turbulent times , highly difficult times , and all too often very bloody times .	那些是--我們今天很清楚的看到--幾乎每次都非常混亂 , 非常艱難--而且經常是非常血腥的時代 。
by the way , it happens about once every century .	順便一提 , 這種事每個世紀都會發生一次 。
you might argue that the last time it happened and that's what housman felt coming and what churchill felt too was that when power passed from the old nations , the old powers of europe , across the atlantic to the new emerging power of the united states of america the beginning of the american century .	你也許會說 , 上一次發生的狀況 , 那就是霍斯曼的感受 , 和邱吉爾的感受 , 當權力從原住民傳過來 , 歐洲的舊勢力 , 橫跨大西洋到美國的新興勢力──這就是本世紀初的開始 。
and of course , into the vacuum where the tooold european powers used to be were played the two bloody catastrophes of the last century the one in the first part and the one in the second part: the two great world wars .	當然 , 在那個時候歐洲人過時的權力被用來扮演兩場血腥的災難就在上個世紀第一部份第二部份:兩次世界大戰
mao zedong used to refer to them as the european civil wars , and it's probably a more accurate way of describing them .	毛澤東曾經說過他們是歐洲內戰 , 這可能是更正確的描述方式 。
well , ladies and gentlemen , we live at one of those times .	各位先生女士 , 我們生活的次數之一 。
but for us , i want to talk about three factors today .	但對我們來說 , 我今天要談三個因素 。
and the first of these , the first two of these , is about a shift in power .	第一種是權力移轉 。
and the second is about some new dimension which i want to refer to , which has never quite happened in the way it's happening now .	第二個層面是我想指出的一些新的層面在現今從來沒有像現在這樣發生過
but let's talk about the shifts of power that are occurring to the world .	但讓我們來談談世界上發生的權力移轉 。
and what is happening today is , in one sense , frightening because it's never happened before .	現今正在發生的是 , 在某種意義上 , 可怕 , 因為以前從來沒有發生過 。
we have seen lateral shifts of power the power of greece passed to rome and the power shifts that occurred during the european civilizations but we are seeing something slightly different .	我們見過橫向的權力轉移──希臘的力量被轉移到羅馬 , 在歐洲文明中發生的權力轉移──但我們看到的稍微不同 。
for power is not just moving laterally from nation to nation .	因為權力不只是國與國之間的橫向移轉 。
it's also moving vertically .	它還直向運動 。
what's happening today is that the power that was encased , held to accountability , held to the rule of law , within the institution of the nation state has now migrated in very large measure onto the global stage .	現今所發生的是 , 被推廣的權力 , 被責任的權力 , 受到法律的牽制 , 到了國家的機構內 , 已經大幅遷移到全球的舞台上 。
the globalization of power we talk about the globalization of markets , but actually it's the globalization of real power .	全球化的權力雖然我們說是全球化市場但實際上卻是全球化權力
and where , at the nation state level that power is held to accountability subject to the rule of law , on the international stage it is not .	從國家的角度來看 , 權力掌握在法律的掌控權 , 在國際舞台上 , 並非如此 。
the international stage and the global stage where power now resides: the power of the internet , the power of the satellite broadcasters , the power of the money changers this vast moneygoround that circulates now 32 times the amount of money necessary for the trade it's supposed to be there to finance the money changers , if you like , the financial speculators that have brought us all to our knees quite recently , the power of the multinational corporations now developing budgets often bigger than mediumsized countries .	現在的國際舞台和全球舞台 , 即網路的力量、衛星廣播的力量、金錢轉移的力量、流通的金錢財富比交易所需的金錢還要高32倍 , 如果你願意 , 金融的推測者 , 近期已經把我們都帶到我們的膝蓋上了 , 數量的預算增加了32倍 。
these live in a global space which is largely unregulated , not subject to the rule of law , and in which people may act free of constraint .	這些生活在一個全球化的空間 , 大多是沒有規範的 , 而非受到法律的限制 , 人們可能不受約束 。
now that suits the powerful up to a moment .	現在這套方法很強而有力地結合了這個時刻 。
it's always suitable for those who have the most power to operate in spaces without constraint , but the lesson of history is that , sooner or later , unregulated space space not subject to the rule of law becomes populated , not just by the things you wanted international trade , the internet , etc . but also by the things you don't want international criminality , international terrorism .	那些在沒有限制的情況下最有權力的人在沒有制約的環境中運行 , 但歷史的教訓是 , 遲早 , 沒有管制的空間 , 不會受到法律的規則所牽涉 , 不僅僅是你想要的國際貿易、網路、等等 。 還包括你不希望國際犯罪、國際恐怖主義 。
the revelation of 9/11 is that even if you are the most powerful nation on earth , nevertheless , those who inhabit that space can attack you even in your most iconic of cities one bright september morning .	911的真相是 , 即使你是地球上最強大的國家 , 然而 , 那些生活在太空中的國家 , 卻能夠攻擊你 , 即使是在九月的一個早晨當中 , 最具代表性的象徵 。
it's said that something like 60 percent of the four million dollars that was taken to fund 9/11 actually passed through the institutions of the twin towers which 9/11 destroyed .	有人說四百萬美金中大約有百分之六十用來資助911恐怖攻擊的錢是從雙子星大樓的機構通過911摧毀的
you see , our enemies also use this space the space of mass travel , the internet , satellite broadcasters to be able to get around their poison , which is about destroying our systems and our ways .	我們的敵人也使用這樣的空間大眾旅遊、網路、衛星廣播人員有能力購買毒藥 , 也就是摧毀我們的系統和路線 。
sooner or later , sooner or later , the rule of history is that where power goes governance must follow .	遲早 , 早晚或晚 , 歷史的規則就是權力在哪裡被治理 。
and if it is therefore the case , as i believe it is , that one of the phenomenon of our time is the globalization of power , then it follows that one of the challenges of our time is to bring governance to the global space .	因此 , 如我所相信的 , 如果發生了這種狀況 , 我們這個時代的一個現象就是權力全球化 , 那麼我們這個時代所面臨的挑戰就是把統治者帶到國際舞台上 。
and i believe that the decades ahead of us now will be to a greater or lesser extent turbulent the more or less we are able to achieve that aim: to bring governance to the global space .	我相信在未來的數十年 , 將會是越來越多或更少的亂流 , 我們有能力達到那個目標:把統治者帶到全球空間 。
now notice , i'm not talking about government .	請注意 , 我不是在說政府 。
i'm not talking about setting up some global democratic institution .	我不是在說要建立一些全球民主制度 。
my own view , by the way , ladies and gentlemen , is that this is unlikely to be done by spawning more u . n . institutions .	對了 , 我自己的看法是 , 女士們先生們 , 我不太可能會有更多聯合國機構的幫助 。
if we didn't have the u . n . , we'd have to invent it .	如果我們沒有聯合國 , 我們就要把它發明出來 。
the world needs an international forum .	這個世界需要一個國際論壇 。
it needs a means by which you can legitimize international action .	它需要一個可以合法化國際行動的手段
but when it comes to governance of the global space , my guess is this won't happen through the creation of more u . n . institutions .	但當涉及國際舞台的管理我認為這不會發生在建立更多的聯合國機構
it will actually happen by the powerful coming together and making treatybased systems , treatybased agreements , to govern that global space .	會發生在強權聚集在一起 , 以條約為基礎的系統 , 以協定為基礎的協定 , 來統治這個全球空間 。
and if you look , you can see them happening , already beginning to emerge .	如果你仔細看 , 你可以看到這些正在發生的事情 , 已經開始發生了 。
the world trade organization: treatybased organization , entirely treatybased , and yet , powerful enough to hold even the most powerful , the united states , to account if necessary .	世界貿易組織:合約為底的組織 , 完全以合約為基礎的組織 , 然而 , 強大到足以維持最強勢的組織 , 即便是美國 , 還是得要考量的 。
kyoto: the beginnings of struggling to create a treatybased organization .	京都議定書:掙扎著想要建立一套合約為底的組織 。
the g20: we know now that we have to put together an institution which is capable of bringing governance to that financial space for financial speculation .	二十國集團現在我們知道我們必須組建一個能夠把統治權帶到金融空間的機構去做金融猜測 。
and that's what the g20 is , a treatybased institution .	這就是二十國集團在做的 , 一個以條約為基礎的機構
now there's a problem there , and we'll come back to it in a minute , which is that if you bring the most powerful together to make the rules in treatybased institutions , to fill that governance space , then what happens to the weak who are left out ?	現在有一個問題 , 我們等下會再回到這個問題 , 就是如果你把最有權力的人集合起來 , 在條約制式的制度上制定出一套規則 , 來填補統治空間 , 那麼弱國又會怎麼樣 ?
and that's a big problem , and we'll return to it in just a second .	這是個大問題 , 我們很快就會回到這問題上 。
so there's my first message , that if you are to pass through these turbulent times more or less turbulently , then our success in doing that will in large measure depend on our capacity to bring sensible governance to the global space .	所以 , 我的第一條訊息就是 , 如果你經由這些動亂次數或更少動盪 , 那麼我們的成功將大量依據我們的能力 , 把合理的管理帶到全球空間 。
and watch that beginning to happen .	看這一開始發生 。
my second point is , and i know i don't have to talk to an audience like this about such a thing , but power is not just shifting vertically , it's also shifting horizontally .	我的第二點是 , 我知道我不需要和像這樣的觀眾談這件事 , 但權力不只是直向移轉 , 還會橫向移轉 。
you might argue that the story , the history of civilizations , has been civilizations gathered around seas with the first ones around the mediterranean , the more recent ones in the ascendents of western power around the atlantic .	你也許會說 , 文明的故事 , 人類文明的歷史 , 已經聚集在海洋上 , 最先到達地中海的文明 , 近期西方後大西洋後裔的後裔 ,
well it seems to me that we're now seeing a fundamental shift of power , broadly speaking , away from nations gathered around the atlantic [seaboard] to the nations gathered around the pacific rim .	在我看來 , 我們現在看到的是更根本的權力移轉 , 廣泛來說 , 遠離大西洋岸周圍的國家 , 到太平洋岸邊的國家 。
now that begins with economic power , but that's the way it always begins .	這要從經濟實力開始 , 但總是這樣開始的 。
you already begin to see the development of foreign policies , the augmentation of military budgets occurring in the other growing powers in the world .	你已經開始看見外交政策的發展 , 軍事預算的增強 , 發生在世界上其他正在成長的政策中 。
i think actually this is not so much a shift from the west to the east ; something different is happening .	我認為 , 這其實不算是從西方移轉到東邊 , 不同的事情正在發生 。
my guess is , for what it's worth , is that the united states will remain the most powerful nation on earth for the next 10 years , 15 , but the context in which she holds her power has now radically altered ; it has radically changed .	我想 , 值得一提的是美國會永遠是地球上最強大的國家在接下來的十年 , 十五年 , 她掌握她的權力的情境已經徹底改變 , 已經徹底改變了 。
we are coming out of 50 years , most unusual years , of history in which we have had a totally monopolar world , in which every compass needle for or against has to be referenced by its position to washington a world bestrode by a single colossus .	我們正走出過去的50年 , 最不尋常的時代 , 在這個時代 , 我們有一個完全獨立的世界 , 在這個世界中 , 每個指控與否都需要依據它的位置來指出華盛頓這個世界 , 一個巨大的世界是最好的 。
but that's not a usual case in history .	但這在歷史上卻不常見 。
in fact , what's now emerging is the much more normal case of history .	事實上 , 現在所發生的事 , 是歷史上更正常的事 。
you're beginning to see the emergence of a multipolar world .	你開始看到一個多極化的世界出現 。
up until now , the united states has been the dominant feature of our world .	到目前為止 , 美國一直是世界的主導特徵 。
they will remain the most powerful nation , but they will be the most powerful nation in an increasingly multipolar world .	他們會保持最強大的國家 , 但他們會是這個日益擴大的多極世界中最強大的國家 。
and you begin to see the alternative centers of power building up in china , of course , though my own guess is that china's ascent to greatness is not smooth .	你會開始看到在中國建立權力的替代中心 , 當然 , 我個人猜測 , 中國要邁向偉大 , 並不是光滑的 。
it's going to be quite grumpy as china begins to democratize her society after liberalizing her economy .	因為中國在自由經濟之後 , 會開始民主化她的社會 。
but that's a subject of a different discussion .	但那是另一個主題 。
you see india , you see brazil .	你看到的是印度、巴西 。
you see increasingly that the world now looks actually , for us europeans , much more like europe in the 19th century .	事實上 , 對我們歐洲人來說 , 世界看起來越來越像十九世紀的歐洲 。
europe in the 19th century: a great british foreign secretary , lord canning , used to describe it as the " european concert of powers . "	在十九世紀 , 英國的外交大臣坎寧將歐洲描述為 「 歐洲的權力協調 」
there was a balance , a fivesided balance .	有一種平衡 , 一種五面向的平衡 。
britain always played to the balance .	英國人總是在玩平衡 。
if paris got together with berlin , britain got together with vienna and rome to provide a counterbalance .	如果巴黎和柏林合作 , 英國就和維也納和羅馬合作 , 來維也納和羅馬取得平衡 。
now notice , in a period which is dominated by a monopolar world , you have fixed alliances nato , the warsaw pact .	請注意 , 在這個由獨立世界主宰的時期 , 你有著固定的北約組織 , 華沙區聯盟 。
a fixed polarity of power means fixed alliances .	一個固定的權力兩極性意味著結盟 。
but a multiple polarity of power means shifting and changing alliances .	但 , 權力的多極性 , 意味著改變和改變盟友 。
and that's the world we're coming into , in which we will increasingly see that our alliances are not fixed .	這就是我們即將進入的世界 , 我們將會看到越來越多的同盟國沒有被修復 。
canning , the great british foreign secretary once said , " britain has a common interest , but no common allies . "	傑出的英國外交大臣坎寧曾說過: 「 英國有一個共同的興趣 , 但沒有普通的盟友 。 」
and we will see increasingly that even we in the west will reach out , have to reach out , beyond the cozy circle of the atlantic powers to make alliances with others if we want to get things done in the world .	我們也會逐漸看到 , 即使在西方世界我們也需要向外伸出援手 , 超越大西洋的舒適圈 , 和他人結盟 , 只要我們想要在世界上做事 。
note , that when we went into libya , it was not good enough for the west to do it alone ; we had to bring others in .	請注意 , 當我們進入利比亞時 , 西方是不夠的 , 我們必須讓其他人參與 。
we had to bring , in this case , the arab league in .	在這個例子中 , 我們得要把阿拉伯聯盟帶進來 。
my guess is iraq and afghanistan are the last times when the west has tried to do it themselves , and we haven't succeeded .	我猜伊拉克和阿富汗是西方國家嘗試自己做事的最後幾次 , 但我們還沒有成功 。
my guess is that we're reaching the beginning of the end of 400 years i say 400 years because it's the end of the ottoman empire of the hegemony of western power , western institutions and western values .	我想我們快要到400年底的開始了我說四百年後才終止因為這是西方國家權力、西方國家制度和西方價值觀的最終帝國的終點
you know , up until now , if the west got its act together , it could propose and dispose in every corner of the world .	你知道嗎 , 到目前為止 , 如果西方國家能攜手合作 , 它能在世界的每個角落提出並丟棄 。
but that's no longer true .	但這已經不是事實了 。
take the last financial crisis after the second world war .	以上次世界大戰後的金融危機為例 。
the west got together the bretton woods institution , world bank , international monetary fund the problem solved .	西方世界銀行 , 國際貨幣基金組織問題解決了 。
now we have to call in others .	現在我們必須在別人身上打電話 。
now we have to create the g20 .	現在我們必須建立一個g20集團
now we have to reach beyond the cozy circle of our western friends .	現在我們必須超越西方朋友的舒適圈 。
let me make a prediction for you , which is probably even more startling .	讓我來做個預測 , 這可能會更嚇人 。
i suspect we are now reaching the end of 400 years when western power was enough .	我猜想西方國家有400年的力量足夠了 , 已經到了西方國家了 。
people say to me , " the chinese , of course , they'll never get themselves involved in peacemaking , multilateral peacemaking around the world . "	人們對我說: 「 中國絕對不會參與什麼在世界上建立和平的活動 。 」
oh yes ? why not ?	沒錯吧 ? 為什麼不呢 ?
how many chinese troops are serving under the blue beret , serving under the blue flag , serving under the u . n . command in the world today ?	有多少中國軍隊在藍色貝雷特的背後服務 , 在藍色旗幟下工作 , 在聯合國的指令下服務 ?
how many americans ? 11 .	有多少美國人 ? 十一歲 。
what is the largest naval contingent tackling the issue of somali pirates ?	對於索馬利亞海盜 , 最大的海軍艦隊到底是什麼 ?
the chinese naval contingent .	中國的海軍憲法
of course they are , they are a mercantilist nation .	當然 , 他們是重商的國家 。
they want to keep the sea lanes open .	他們想要保持航道的開放
increasingly , we are going to have to do business with people with whom we do not share values , but with whom , for the moment , we share common interests .	漸漸地 , 我們得要和我們沒有共享價值觀的人做生意 , 但 , 目前 , 我們共同共同利益 。
it's a whole new different way of looking at the world that is now emerging .	這是個全新的角度來看這世界正在發展
and here's the third factor , which is totally different .	第三個因素 , 完全不同 。
today in our modern world , because of the internet , because of the kinds of things people have been talking about here , everything is connected to everything .	今天 , 在我們的現代世界 , 由於網際網路 , 因為人們在此談論的人們 , 每件事都和一切息息相關 。
we are now interdependent .	我們是互相依賴的 。
we are now interlocked , as nations , as individuals , in a way which has never been the case before , never been the case before .	我們現在的關係 , 以國家和個人的關係 , 在以前從未如此過 , 從未如此過過 。
the interrelationship of nations , well it's always existed .	國與國之間的相關關係一直都存在 。
diplomacy is about managing the interrelationship of nations .	外交就是管理國家之間的相互關係 。
but now we are intimately locked together .	但現在我們被緊密地鎖在一起了 。
you get swine flu in mexico , it's a problem for charles de gaulle airport 24 hours later .	你在墨西哥得到豬流感 , 24小時後 , 查爾斯•高爾機場出了問題 。
lehman brothers goes down , the whole lot collapses .	雷曼兄弟倒閉了 , 整個崩潰了 。
there are fires in the steppes of russia , food riots in africa .	俄羅斯的大草原發生火災非洲的食物暴動
we are all now deeply , deeply , deeply interconnected .	我們彼此之間有著深深的關聯 。
and what that means is the idea of a nation state acting alone , not connected with others , not working with others , is no longer a viable proposition .	也就是說 , 一個國家獨自行動 , 而不是與其他人聯繫 , 不再與其他人合作 , 不再是個可行的論點 。
because the actions of a nation state are neither confined to itself , nor is it sufficient for the nation state itself to control its own territory , because the effects outside the nation state are now beginning to affect what happens inside them .	因為一個國家的行動並不侷限於自己 , 也不夠讓國家能夠去控制它自己的領土 , 因為國外的影響已經開始影響著他們內在的一切 。
i was a young soldier in the last of the small empire wars of britain .	我當時還是個年輕的軍人 , 住在英國最後一場小型帝國戰爭中 。
at that time , the defense of my country was about one thing and one thing only: how strong was our army , how strong was our air force , how strong was our navy and how strong were our allies .	那時 , 我的國家要防禦一件事 , 只有一點:我們的軍隊有多堅強 , 我們的空軍有多堅強 , 我們的海軍有多堅強 , 我們的盟友有多堅強 。
that was when the enemy was outside the walls .	敵人就在城牆外
now the enemy is inside the walls .	現在敵人就在城牆內
now if i want to talk about the defense of my country , i have to speak to the minister of health because pandemic disease is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of agriculture because food security is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of industry because the fragility of our hitech infrastructure is now a point of attack for our enemies as we see from cyber warfare i have to speak to the minister of home affairs because who has entered my country , who lives in that terraced house in that inner city has a direct effect on what happens in my country as we in london saw in the 7/7 bombings .	現在如果我想談談我國家的辯護 , 我必須和衛生部長談 , 因為傳染病對我們的安全是威脅 , 我必須和農業部談談 , 因為糧食安全對我們的安全造成威脅 , 我必須和產業的部長談談 , 因為高科技基礎設施的脆弱 , 現在對敵人的攻擊 , 如同我們從網路戰火上看到的那樣 , 和在我們國家的房子裡發生了什麽樣的影響 。
it's no longer the case that the security of a country is simply a matter for its soldiers and its ministry of defense .	一個國家的安全不再只和軍人和國防有關
it's its capacity to lock together its institutions .	它的能力是把制度鎖在一起的能力 。
and this tells you something very important .	這告訴你們一件很重要的事 。
it tells you that , in fact , our governments , vertically constructed , constructed on the economic model of the industrial revolution vertical hierarchy , specialization of tasks , command structures have got the wrong structures completely .	它告訴我們 , 事實上 , 我們的政府 , 縱向建造 , 建立在工業革命的經濟模式上 , 縱向層級制度 , 分工作任務 , 指揮結構 , 完全錯了結構 。
you in business know that the paradigm structure of our time , ladies and gentlemen , is the network .	在座的各位 , 商人都知道 , 我們時代的典範結構 , 各位 , 先生女士 , 就是網路 。
it's your capacity to network that matters , both within your governments and externally .	你的網路能力是重要的 , 無論在你的政府還是外部 。
so here is ashdown's third law .	這是ashdown的第三定律 。
by the way , don't ask me about ashdown's first law and second law because i haven't invented those yet ; it always sounds better if there's a third law , doesn't it ?	順道一提 , 不要問我第一個法則和第二個法則 , 因為我還沒發明出來 ; 第三法則總是比較好聽 , 對吧 ?
ashdown's third law is that in the modern age , where everything is connected to everything , the most important thing about what you can do is what you can do with others .	接下來的第三個法則是 , 在現代 , 每件事都有關連最重要的是 , 你能和別人做什麼 ,
the most important bit about your structure whether you're a government , whether you're an army regiment , whether you're a business is your docking points , your interconnectors , your capacity to network with others .	無論你是政府 , 還是軍人 , 還是企業 , 還是你的連接點 , 你的連接點 , 你與他人的連結能力 。
you understand that in industry ; governments don't .	你了解在工業上 , 政府不了解這一點 。
but now one final thing .	但最後一件事 。
if it is the case , ladies and gentlemen and it is that we are now locked together in a way that has never been quite the same before , then it's also the case that we share a destiny with each other .	如果是這樣的 , 女士們先生們 , 那就是我們現在以過去從來沒有發生過的緊緊相連 , 那麼 , 也是因為我們和彼此有著相同命運 。
suddenly and for the very first time , collective defense , the thing that has dominated us as the concept of securing our nations , is no longer enough .	突然間 , 也是第一次 , 集體防禦 , 將我們視為國家安全的概念 , 已經不夠了 。
it used to be the case that if my tribe was more powerful than their tribe , i was safe ; if my country was more powerful than their country , i was safe ; my alliance , like nato , was more powerful than their alliance , i was safe .	過去 , 如果我的部落比他們的部落更強大 , 我很安全 ; 如果我的國家比他們的國家強大 , 我很安全 ; 我的聯盟 , 比如北約組織 , 比他們的聯盟更強大 , 我也很安全 。
it is no longer the case .	這已經不是事實了 。
the advent of the interconnectedness and of the weapons of mass destruction means that , increasingly , i share a destiny with my enemy .	大規模毀滅性武器的相互關聯性 , 和大規模毀滅性武器的出現越來越多 , 我和我的敵人有著同樣的命運 。
when i was a diplomat negotiating the disarmament treaties with the soviet union in geneva in the 1970s , we succeeded because we understood we shared a destiny with them .	1970年代日內瓦的蘇聯公會議時 , 我當外交官時 , 和蘇聯一起協商時 , 我們成功了 , 因為我們知道我們和他們有共同的命運 。
collective security is not enough .	集體安全是不夠的 。
peace has come to northern ireland because both sides realized that the zerosum game couldn't work .	和平來到北愛爾蘭 , 因為雙方都知道零和遊戲是行不通的 。
they shared a destiny with their enemies .	他們和敵人有著相同的命運
one of the great barriers to peace in the middle east is that both sides , both israel and , i think , the palestinians , do not understand that they share a collective destiny .	阻礙著中東和平的其中一項要素是以色列和巴勒斯坦人都不了解他們和我們有著共同的命運
and so suddenly , ladies and gentlemen , what has been the proposition of visionaries and poets down the ages becomes something we have to take seriously as a matter of public policy .	所以 , 各位先生女士 , 在過去的願景家和詩人們 , 成為我們必須認真看待的公共政策 。
i started with a poem , i'll end with one .	我從一首詩開始 , 最後就以一首詩結束 。
the great poem of john donne's .	偉大的約翰•多恩的詩
" send not for whom the bell tolls . "	「 不用寄鐘聲給誰 。 」
the poem is called " no man is an island . "	這首詩叫做 " 沒有人是孤島 "
and it goes: " every man's death affected me , for i am involved in mankind , send not to ask for whom the bell tolls , it tolls for thee . "	這句話是: 「 每一個人的死亡都影響著我 , 因為我和人類有關係 , 不要去問鐘聲是什麼人 , 它代表了我 。 」
for john donne , a recommendation of morality .	多恩是道德的建議
for us , i think , part of the equation for our survival .	我認為 , 對我們而言 , 等式的一部分是生存的 。
to find the path to long life and health , dan buettner and team study the world's " blue zones , " communities whose elders live with vim and vigor to recordsetting age . at tedxtc , he shares the 9 common diet and lifestyle habits that keep them spry past age 100 .	為了找到長壽和健康的路 , 丹•巴特納和團隊研究世界的 「 藍寶地 」 , 這些長老和活力在tedxtc上共享9個常見的飲食習慣 , 和維持一百歲以上的飲食習慣 。
biology , culture , exploration , food , health , life , science	生物、文化、探索、食物、食物、生命、科學 ,
dan buettner: how to live to be 100+	danbuetner:如何活出100+ ?
something called the danish twin study established that only about 10 percent of how long the average person lives , within certain biological limits , is dictated by our genes .	有個丹麥雙胞胎的研究證實 , 在某些生物限制下 , 平均人平均壽命只有百分之十 。
the other 90 percent is dictated by our lifestyle .	另外百分之九十是由生活方式決定 。
so the premise of blue zones: if we can find the optimal lifestyle of longevity we can come up with a de facto formula for longevity .	所以藍寶地的前提是:如果我們能找到長壽的最佳生活方式 , 我們就能找出一個實際的長壽公式 。
but if you ask the average american what the optimal formula of longevity is , they probably couldn't tell you .	但如果你問一般美國人 , 長壽的最佳公式是什麼 ? 他們大概不會告訴你 。
they've probably heard of the south beach diet , or the atkins diet .	他們可能聽說過南灘減肥法或阿金減肥法
you have the usda food pyramid .	你有美國農業部糧食金字塔
there is what oprah tells us .	歐普拉告訴我們的是:
there is what doctor oz tells us .	oz醫生告訴我們的是:
the fact of the matter is there is a lot of confusion around what really helps us live longer better .	事實是有很多混淆了真正幫助我們活得更久的東西 。
should you be running marathons or doing yoga ?	你應該跑馬拉松還是做瑜伽 ?
should you eat organic meats or should you be eating tofu ?	你應該吃有機肉還是豆腐 ?
when it comes to supplements , should you be taking them ?	至於營養品 , 你該吃嗎 ?
how about these hormones or resveratrol ?	荷爾蒙或白斑魚呢 ?
and does purpose play into it ?	故意在其中演奏嗎 ?
spirituality ? and how about how we socialize ?	精神上 ? 那我們如何社交 ?
well , our approach to finding longevity was to team up with national geographic , and the national institute on aging , to find the four demographically confirmed areas that are geographically defined .	我們研究長壽的方法是與國家地理雜誌和國家老化研究所合作 , 找出四個人口確定地理界線的確認區域 。
and then bring a team of experts in there to methodically go through exactly what these people do , to distill down the crosscultural distillation .	然後請一組專家帶進去 , 有條理地介紹這些人的所作所為 , 來提煉跨文化的精華 。
and at the end of this i'm going to tell you what that distillation is .	演講最後我會告訴你們精華是什麼
but first i'd like to debunk some common myths when it comes to longevity .	但首先 , 我想破除一些常見的迷思長壽的迷思 。
and the first myth is if you try really hard you can live to be 100 .	第一個迷思是 , 如果你真的很努力 , 你可以活到一百歲 。
the problem is , only about one out of 5 , 000 people in america live to be 100 .	問題是 , 在美國 , 五千人中只有一個人能活到一百歲 。
your chances are very low .	你的機會非常低 。
even though it's the fastest growing demographic in america , it's hard to reach 100 .	雖然它是美國成長最快的族群 , 但很難達到一百人 。
the problem is that we're not programmed for longevity .	問題是 , 我們不是為長壽而設計的 。
we are programmed for something called procreative success .	我們被設計為一種叫做成功繁衍的產品 。
i love that word .	我愛這個詞 。
it reminds me of my college days .	這讓我想起大學日子 。
biologists term procreative success to mean the age where you have children and then another generation , the age when your children have children .	生物學家把這個詞當作成功 , 指的是你有孩子時的年齡 , 接著下一代 , 當你的孩子有了孩子時的年齡 。
after that the effect of evolution completely dissipates .	演化的影響完全消失後
if you're a mammal , if you're a rat or an elephant , or a human , in between , it's the same story .	如果你是哺乳類 , 如果你是老鼠、大象、或人 , 在這兩者之間 , 都是一樣的故事 。
so to make it to age 100 , you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle , you also have to have won the genetic lottery .	要活到一百歲 , 你不僅要有很好的生活方式 , 你還得拿到基因彩票 。
the second myth is , there are treatments that can help slow , reverse , or even stop aging .	第二個迷思是 , 有些治療可以減緩 , 反轉 , 甚至停止老化 。
when you think of it , there is 99 things that can age us .	仔細想想 , 有99件事情可以讓我們老化 。
deprive your brain of oxygen for just a few minutes , those brain cells die , they never come back .	只要幾分鐘的時間 , 那些腦細胞就會死亡 , 它們就不會再回來 。
play tennis too hard , on your knees , ruin your cartilage , the cartilage never comes back .	打網球太激烈 , 膝蓋也擦掉了你的軟骨 , 軟骨從來沒有回來過 。
our arteries can clog . our brains can gunk up with plaque , and we can get alzheimer's .	我們的動脈會堵塞 。 我們的大腦會用斑塊堵塞 , 我們可以得到阿茲海默症 。
there is just too many things to go wrong .	有太多事情會出錯了 。
our bodies have 35 trillion cells , trillion with a " t . " we're talking national debt numbers here .	我們的身體有三十五兆個細胞 , 上兆個 「 t 」 。 我們在談的是國債數字 。
those cells turn themselves over once every eight years .	那些細胞每八年轉一次 。
and every time they turn themselves over there is some damage . and that damage builds up .	每次他們調動就會產生一些傷害 , 傷害就會累積起來 。
and it builds up exponentially .	成倍增長 。
it's a little bit like the days when we all had beatles albums or eagles albums and we'd make a copy of that on a cassette tape , and let our friends copy that cassette tape , and pretty soon , with successive generations that tape sounds like garbage .	這有點像以前我們都有披頭四或老鷹專輯我們會把它複製到一個錄音帶上然後讓朋友複製那錄音帶很快地 , 世代代代相傳錄音會聽起來像垃圾
well , the same things happen to our cells .	同樣的事也發生在我們的細胞上 。
that's why a 65yearold person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12yearold person .	這就是為什麼一個六十五歲的人老化的速度比一個十二歲的人快一百二十五倍
so , if there is nothing you can do to slow your aging or stop your aging , what am i doing here ?	所以 , 如果不能阻止老化或者停止老化 , 我在這裡幹嘛 ?
well , the fact of the matter is the best science tells us that the capacity of the human body , my body , your body , is about 90 years , a little bit more for women .	事實上 , 最好的科學告訴我們 , 人體的能力 , 我的身體 , 你的身體 , 大約90年 , 對女性來說 , 多了一點 。
but life expectancy in this country is only 78 .	但在這個國家 , 平均壽命只有78歲 。
so somewhere along the line , we're leaving about 12 good years on the table .	所以 , 在某個時點 , 我們會在那條線上留下12年美好的光景 。
these are years that we could get .	這些是我們能得到的 。
and research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease , heart disease , cancer and diabetes .	研究顯示多年來大部分都免於慢性病、心臟病、癌症和糖尿病 。
we think the best way to get these missing years is to look at the cultures around the world that are actually experiencing them , areas where people are living to age 100 at rates up to 10 times greater than we are , areas where the life expectancy is an extra dozen years , the rate of middle age mortality is a fraction of what it is in this country .	我們認為 , 若要消除這些消失光陰最好的方法就是看看世界各地的文化 , 那些實際上正在經歷它們的文化 , 那些地方的人們可以活到一百歲 , 比我們活到更高十倍的比例 , 那些預期壽命多了十二年 , 中年死亡率 , 只是這個國家中年死亡率的一小部分 。
we found our first blue zone about 125 miles off the coast of italy , on the island of sardinia .	我們發現的第一個藍寶地是在義大利海岸附近的125英里處在沙丁尼亞島上
and not the entire island , the island is about 1 . 4 million people , but only up in the highlands , an area called the nuoro province .	不是整座島 , 整座島約有一百四十萬人 , 卻只在高地 , 一個叫努奧羅省的地方 。
and here we have this area where men live the longest , about 10 times more centenarians than we have here in america .	這裡是男人最長壽的地區 , 大約百歲人瑞的數目是美國人的十倍 。
and this is a place where people not only reach age 100 , they do so with extraordinary vigor .	這裡的居民不僅活到一百歲 , 他們還活得很好 。
places where 102 year olds still ride their bike to work , chop wood , and can beat a guy 60 years younger than them .	一百零二歲的老人仍然騎腳踏車去工作 , 砍柴 , 還能打敗比自己年輕六十歲的小夥子 。
their history actually goes back to about the time of christ .	他們的歷史實際上可以追溯到基督的時代 。
it's actually a bronze age culture that's been isolated .	它其實是一個孤立的青銅器文化 。
because the land is so infertile , they largely are shepherds , which occasions regular , lowintensity physical activity .	因為土地非常貧瘠 , 它們大多是牧羊人 , 牧羊人有規律、低密度的體能活動 。
their diet is mostly plantbased , accentuated with foods that they can carry into the fields .	他們的飲食主要是以植物為主 , 以可帶到田裡的食物為中心 。
they came up with an unleavened whole wheat bread called carta musica made out of durum wheat , a type of cheese made from grassfed animals so the cheese is high in omega3 fatty acids instead of omega6 fatty acids from cornfed animals , and a type of wine that has three times the level of polyphenols than any known wine in the world .	他們想出一種未發酵的全麥麵包叫做cata音樂 , 用小麥製作 , 一種來自青草餵養的動物的乳酪 , 這種乳酪富含omega-3脂肪酸而非omega-6脂肪酸 , 來自玉米餵養的動物 , 還有一種葡萄酒 , 比世界上任何酒都多出三倍 。
but the real secret i think lies more in the way that they organize their society .	但我認為真正的秘密是他們組織社會的方式 。
and one of the most salient elements of the sardinian society is how they treat older people .	薩丁尼亞社會最突出的元素之一 , 就是他們對待老人的方式 。
you ever notice here in america , social equity seems to peak at about age 24 ?	你有沒有注意到在美國 , 社會平等似乎在24歲達到高峰 ?
just look at the advertisements .	只要看看廣告 。
here in sardinia , the older you get the more equity you have , the more wisdom you're celebrated for .	在薩丁尼亞 , 你越老越公平 , 你的讚頌就越多智慧 。
you go into the bars in sardinia , instead of seeing the sports illustrated swimsuit calendar , you see the centenarian of the month calendar .	走進薩丁尼亞的酒吧你看不到運動畫刊的泳裝日曆而是看到百歲人瑞的月曆
this , as it turns out , is not only good for your aging parents to keep them close to the family it imparts about four to six years of extra life expectancy research shows it's also good for the children of those families , who have lower rates of mortality and lower rates of disease .	事實證明 , 這不只讓老邁的父母跟家人更親近還增加預期壽命四到六年研究顯示那些家庭的小孩也有較低死亡率和較低疾病率
that's called the grandmother effect .	這叫做祖母效應 。
we found our second blue zone on the other side of the planet , about 800 miles south of tokyo , on the archipelago of okinawa .	我們在地球的另一端發現了第二個藍色區域 , 位在東京的南方800英里 , 在okinawa的阿基戈 。
okinawa is actually 161 small islands .	琉球其實是161個小島
and in the northern part of the main island , this is ground zero for world longevity .	主島的北部是世界長壽的原點
this is a place where the oldest living female population is found .	這是發現最老的女性居住的地方 。
it's a place where people have the longest disabilityfree life expectancy in the world .	這裡的人有世界上最長而無障礙的預期壽命 。
they have what we want .	他們有我們想要的 。
they live a long time , and tend to die in their sleep , very quickly , and often , i can tell you , after sex .	牠們活很久 , 通常在牠們的睡眠中死亡 , 非常快 , 我可以告訴你們 , 牠們在做愛後 ,
they live about seven good years longer than the average american .	他們比一般美國人多活七年 。
five times as many centenarians as we have in america .	在美國 , 百歲人瑞的人數是五倍 。
one fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer , big killers here in america .	結腸癌和乳癌的機率是五分之一 , 在美國這裡是大殺手 。
and one sixth the rate of cardiovascular disease .	心血管疾病的比例是六分之一 。
and the fact that this culture has yielded these numbers suggests strongly they have something to teach us .	事實上 , 這個文化能產生這些數字 , 很明顯地 , 他們能教導我們一些東西 。
what do they do ?	他們怎麼做 ?
once again , a plantbased diet , full of vegetables with lots of color in them .	同樣地 , 植物為主的飲食富含許多顏色的蔬菜
and they eat about eight times as much tofu as americans do .	他們吃大約八倍的豆腐 , 和美國人一樣 。
more significant than what they eat is how they eat it .	比起吃什麼 , 吃什麼就更重要 。
they have all kinds of little strategies to keep from overeating , which , as you know , is a big problem here in america .	他們有各式各樣的小策略可以避免過食 , 如你所知 , 這在美國是一個大問題 。
a few of the strategies we observed: they eat off of smaller plates , so they tend to eat fewer calories at every sitting .	我們觀察到的一些策略:它們吃飯時的盤子比較小 , 所以每次吃的卡路里也比較少 。
instead of serving family style , where you can sort of mindlessly eat as you're talking , they serve at the counter , put the food away , and then bring it to the table .	與其供應家庭風格 , 在這裡你可以無意識地吃東西 , 他們在櫃台上提供食物 , 把食物帶走 , 帶到桌上 。
they also have a 3 , 000yearold adage , which i think is the greatest sort of diet suggestion ever invented .	他們還有一個三千年的格言我認為是有史以來最好的飲食建議
it was invented by confucius .	它是由孔子所發明的 。
and that diet is known as the hara , hatchi , bu diet .	這種飲食被稱為 「 嗜鹽、嗜鹽 」 。
it's simply a little saying these people say before their meal to remind them to stop eating when their stomach is [80] percent full .	這只是一個小小的說法 , 讓人們在用餐前提醒他們不要再吃東西的時候 , 八分一飽就好 。
it takes about a half hour for that full feeling to travel from your belly to your brain .	飽足感要花上半小時才能從肚子傳到腦袋
and by remembering to stop at 80 percent it helps keep you from doing that very thing .	藉由記住 , 到達80% , 它可以幫助你避免這麼做 。
but , like sardinia , okinawa has a few social constructs that we can associate with longevity .	但 , 和薩丁尼亞一樣 , 琉球人有少數的社會結構可以讓我們聯想到長壽 。
we know that isolation kills .	我們知道隔離會導致死亡 。
fifteen years ago , the average american had three good friends .	十五年前美國人平均有三個好朋友
we're down to one and half right now .	現在我們只剩下一個半 。
if you were lucky enough to be born in okinawa , you were born into a system where you automatically have a half a dozen friends with whom you travel through life .	如果你夠幸運生在琉球你會生在一個自動擁有半打朋友的系統
they call it a moai . and if you're in a moai you're expected to share the bounty if you encounter luck , and if things go bad , child gets sick , parent dies , you always have somebody who has your back .	他們稱之為模合 。 如果你碰到運氣 , 你會被期待分享假如不好的孩子生病、父母去世 , 你總會有人支持你 。
this particular moai , these five ladies have been together for 97 years .	這個特別的moai , 這五位女士已經在一起九十七年了 。
their average age is 102 .	他們的平均年齡是102歲 。
typically in america we've divided our adult life up into two sections .	通常在美國我們會把成人生活分成兩個部分 。
there is our work life , where we're productive .	我們的工作是有生產力的 。
and then one day , boom , we retire .	然後有一天 , 砰 , 我們退休了 。
and typically that has meant retiring to the easy chair , or going down to arizona to play golf .	通常這指的就是要退出去輕鬆的椅子 , 或是去亞利桑那州打高爾夫 。
in the okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement .	在琉球語中甚至沒有退休這個詞
instead there is one word that imbues your entire life , and that word is " ikigai . "	反而是有個詞會打動你整個人生 , 這個詞是 「 ikigai 」 。
and , roughly translated , it means " the reason for which you wake up in the morning . "	粗略的翻譯是 " 早上起床的理由 "
for this 102yearold karate master , his ikigai was carrying forth this martial art .	對於這位一百零二歲的空手道師父來說 , 他的生存價值就是這項武術 。
for this hundredyearold fisherman it was continuing to catch fish for his family three times a week .	對這位一百歲的漁夫來說 , 牠一週持續捕魚三次 ,
and this is a question . the national institute on aging actually gave us a questionnaire to give these centenarians .	這是一個問題國家老化研究院給了我們一個問卷給這些百歲人瑞
and one of the questions , they were very culturally astute , the people who put the questionnaire .	其中一個問題 , 他們非常有文化觀 , 提出問卷的人 。
one of the questions was , " what is your ikigai ? "	其中一個問題是: 「 你的生存價值是什麼 ? 」
they instantly knew why they woke up in the morning .	他們馬上就知道他們早上起床的理由 。
for this 102 year old woman , her ikigai was simply her greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	對這位一百零二歲的老太來說她的生存價值只是她的曾曾曾孫女
two girls separated in age by 101 and a half years .	有兩個女孩 , 年齡在101歲半時分開了 。
and i asked her what it felt like to hold a greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	我問她感覺如何抱著一個曾曾孫女 。
and she put her head back and she said , " it feels like leaping into heaven . "	她回過頭說: 「 感覺好像飛躍上天堂 。 」
i thought that was a wonderful thought .	我覺得那是個很棒的想法 。
my editor at geographic wanted me to find america's blue zone .	我在地理的編輯要我去找美國的藍寶地 。
and for a while we looked on the prairies of minnesota , where actually there is a very high proportion of centenarians .	有一陣子我們看了明尼蘇達的草原那裡的百歲人瑞的比例非常高
but that's because all the young people left .	但是因為年輕人都離開了 。
so , we turned to the data again .	所以 , 我們再次轉向資料 。
and we found america's longestlived population among the seventhday adventists concentrated in and around loma linda , california .	我們發現 , 美國最長壽的民眾 , 來自七天前的教友集中在加州的羅馬林達市 。
adventists are conservative methodists .	基督復臨派是保守的衛理學家 。
they celebrate their sabbath from sunset on friday till sunset on saturday .	他們在星期五日落後慶祝安息日 , 到星期六日出為止 。
a " 24hour sanctuary in time , " they call it .	他們稱之為 「 二十四小時的庇護 」 。
and they follow five little habits that conveys to them extraordinary longevity , comparatively speaking .	它們遵循了五個小習慣 , 相對來說 , 它們的長壽相對是很長的 。
in america here , life expectancy for the average woman is 80 .	在美國 , 平均女性的預期壽命是80 。
but for an adventist woman , their life expectancy is 89 .	但對一個基督復臨派的女士來說 , 他們的預期壽命是89 。
and the difference is even more pronounced among men , who are expected to live about 11 years longer than their american counterparts .	男性之間的差異更為明顯他們預期壽命比美國同伴多11年
now , this is a study that followed about 70 , 000 people for 30 years .	這個研究追蹤了大約七萬人三十年 。
sterling study . and i think it supremely illustrates the premise of this blue zone project .	史特林研究 。 我認為它最能說明這個藍寶地計畫的基礎 。
this is a heterogeneous community .	這是一個多種族的社區 。
it's white , black , hispanic , asian .	白人、黑人、西班牙裔、亞洲人 。
the only thing that they have in common are a set of very small lifestyle habits that they follow ritualistically for most of their lives .	他們唯一的共通點就是一套非常小的生活習慣 , 幾乎一輩子都遵守儀式 。
they take their diet directly from the bible .	他們直接從聖經中採取飲食 。
genesis: chapter one , verse [29] , where god talks about legumes and seeds , and on one more stanza about green plants , ostensibly missing is meat .	創世紀第一章第二十九章上帝談到豆子和種子另一節則是談到綠色植物很明顯少了肉
they take this sanctuary in time very serious .	他們非常認真地看待這個庇護時間 。
for 24 hours every week , no matter how busy they are , how stressed out they are at work , where the kids need to be driven , they stop everything and they focus on their god , their social network , and then , hardwired right in the religion , are nature walks .	每週24小時 , 無論他們多忙 , 工作壓力多大 , 孩子需要被駕駛 , 停止一切 , 專注於他們的上帝 , 他們的社交網路 , 接著 , 宗教信仰的天性 , 就是走進大自然 。
and the power of this is not that it's done occasionally , the power is it's done every week for a lifetime .	強大之處不在於偶爾完成 , 權力是每週完成一輩子的 。
none of it's hard . none of it costs money .	一點都不困難 , 一點都不花錢
adventists also tend to hang out with other adventists .	基督復臨派教徒往往和其他基督教徒混在一起
so , if you go to an adventist's party you don't see people swilling jim beam or rolling a joint .	所以 , 如果你去參加一個基督復臨派的會議 , 你不會看到有人在揮舞吉姆貝姆或揮舞著關節 。
instead they're talking about their next nature walk , exchanging recipes , and yes , they pray .	相反地 , 他們在談下一次的自然步行交換食譜 , 是的 , 他們祈禱 。
but they influence each other in profound and measurable ways .	但它們會用很深刻、可量化的方式影響彼此 。
this is a culture that has yielded ellsworth whareham .	這個文化讓埃爾斯沃•偉倫這樣的文化出現了 。
ellsworth whareham is 97 years old .	埃爾斯沃•偉倫九十七歲 。
he's a multimillionaire , yet when a contractor wanted 6 , 000 dollars to build a privacy fence , he said , " for that kind of money i'll do it myself . "	他是百萬富翁 , 但當承包商想要六千美金來建立隱私圍籬時 , 他說: 「 為了這類錢 , 我自己自己做吧 。 」
so for the next three days he was out shoveling cement , and hauling poles around .	所以接下來的三天他都在外頭鏟水泥把欄杆拖來拖去
and predictably , perhaps , on the fourth day he ended up in the operating room .	可以預測 , 也許到了第四天他被送進手術室
but not as the guy on the table ; the guy doing openheart surgery .	但不是手術台上這個人 , 而是開心手術的那個人 。
at 97 he still does 20 openheart surgeries every month .	九十七歲的他一個月仍動二十次開心手術 。
ed rawlings , 103 years old now , an active cowboy , starts his morning with a swim .	艾德•羅林斯 , 現在一百零三歲 , 是個活躍的牛仔 , 早上就開始游泳 。
and on weekends he likes to put on the boards , throw up rooster tails .	在週末 , 他喜歡踏上衝浪板 , 放棄公雞尾巴 。
her grandson actually lives in the twin cities here .	她的孫子其實就住在雙子城這裡 。
she starts her day with lifting weights .	她每天從舉重開始 。
she rides her bicycle .	她騎腳踏車 。
and then she gets in her rootbeer colored 1994 cadillac seville , and tears down the san bernardino freeway , where she still volunteers for seven different organizations .	再來是1994年的塞維利亞凱迪拉克 , 她在聖貝納迪諾高速公路上揮手 , 到現在她仍是七個不同組織的志工 。
i've been on 19 hardcore expeditions .	我曾經參加過19次深奧的探險 。
i'm probably the only person you'll ever meet who rode his bicycle across the sahara desert without sunscreen .	我大概是你見過的唯一一個人他騎著腳踏車橫越撒哈拉沙漠卻沒有防曬霜
but i'll tell you , there is no adventure more harrowing than riding shotgun with marge deton .	但我要告訴各位 , 沒有任何探險比坐上瑪莉奇•戴頓的槍擊事件更恐怖 。
" a stranger is a friend i haven't met yet ! " she'd say to me .	「 陌生人是我還沒見過的朋友 ! 」 她對我說 。
so , what are the common denominators in these three cultures ?	所以 , 這三個文化中的共通點是什麼 ?
what are the things that they all do ?	什麼是他們全部都在做的事 ?
and we managed to boil it down to nine .	我們試著歸納出九項
in fact we've done two more blue zone expeditions since this and these common denominators hold true .	事實上我們已經多做了兩次藍寶地探險 , 和這些常見的探險家所持的關係 。
and the first one , and i'm about to utter a heresy here , none of them exercise , at least the way we think of exercise .	第一項我即將要說一項悖論他們都不運動至少是我們所認為的運動
instead , they set up their lives so that they are constantly nudged into physical activity .	取而代之 , 他們建立起自己的生活 , 使他們不斷地進入身體的活動 。
these 100yearold okinawan women are getting up and down off the ground , they sit on the floor , 30 or 40 times a day .	這些百歲的琉球女人女人坐在地板上 , 每天30到40次 。
sardinians live in vertical houses , up and down the stairs .	薩丁尼亞人住在垂直的房子裡 , 上下樓梯 。
every trip to the store , or to church or to a friend's house occasions a walk .	每次去商店、教堂、或朋友家都要走路 。
they don't have any conveniences .	他們一點都不方便 。
there is not a button to push to do yard work or house work .	沒有按鈕可以達到院子工作或家庭工作 。
if they want to mix up a cake , they're doing it by hand .	如果他們想混合蛋糕 , 他們就用手做蛋糕 。
that burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does .	就像跑步機一樣能燃燒卡路里
when they do do intentional physical activity , it's the things they enjoy . they tend to walk , the only proven way to stave off cognitive decline , and they all tend to have a garden .	當他們有意圖做身體活動時 , 這是他們喜歡做的事 。 他們會走路 , 唯一證明能否保持認知衰退的方法 , 而且他們都傾向有菜園 。
they know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook .	他們知道如何用正確的方式生活所以他們有正確的人生觀 。
each of these cultures take time to downshift .	每個文化都要花時間來轉變 。
the sardinians pray . the seventhday adventists pray .	薩丁尼亞人祈禱 , 第七天的教導教徒祈禱 。
the okinawans have this ancestor veneration .	琉球人有這種祖先的復原
but when you're in a hurry or stressed out , that triggers something called the inflammatory response , which is associated with everything from alzheimer's disease to cardiovascular disease .	但當你匆匆促或焦慮不安會引發一種發炎反應這反應和阿茲海默症到心血管疾病相關
when you slow down for 15 minutes a day you turn that inflammatory state into a more antiinflammatory state .	當你一天放慢15分鐘 , 你就把那發炎狀態轉變成更加抗炎的狀態 。
they have vocabulary for sense of purpose , ikigai , like the okinawans .	他們有詞彙來表達刻意的意義 , 像琉球人 ,
you know the two most dangerous years in your life are the year you're born , because of infant mortality , and the year you retire .	你知道你生命中最危險的兩年就是你出生的那一年 , 因為嬰兒死亡率 , 以及退休那年 。
these people know their sense of purpose , and they activate in their life , that's worth about seven years of extra life expectancy .	這些人知道他們的使命感 , 他們在生活中活躍起來 , 這價值大約是七年的預期壽命 。
there's no longevity diet .	沒有長壽飲食 。
instead , these people drink a little bit every day , not a hard sell to the american population .	相反的 , 這些人每天都少喝點酒 , 對美國人來說不難賣 。
they tend to eat a plantbased diet .	他們傾向於吃植物肉 。
doesn't mean they don't eat meat , but lots of beans and nuts .	不是說他們不吃肉 , 而是很多豆子和堅果 。
and they have strategies to keep from overeating , little things that nudge them away from the table at the right time .	他們有策略來避免過食一些小東西 , 在適當的時間點讓他們遠離餐桌
and then the foundation of all this is how they connect .	這一切的基礎是他們如何建立關係 。
they put their families first , take care of their children and their aging parents .	他們把家人放在第一 , 照顧他們的孩子和年邁的父母 。
they all tend to belong to a faithbased community , which is worth between four and 14 extra years of life expectancy if you do it four times a month .	他們全都屬於一個以信仰為基礎的社群 , 一個月可以多增加4 ~ 14年的預期壽命 。
and the biggest thing here is they also belong to the right tribe .	最重要的是他們也屬於對的部落 。
they were either born into or they proactively surrounded themselves with the right people .	他們不是生來就遇到對的人就是他們積極和平共處
we know from the framingham studies , that if your three best friends are obese there is a 50 percent better chance that you'll be overweight .	我們從佛明罕研究中得知 , 如果你三個最好的朋友都過胖你有一半的機率會超重 。
so , if you hang out with unhealthy people , that's going to have a measurable impact over time .	所以 , 如果你和不健康的人混在一起 , 隨著時間 , 會有明顯的影響 。
instead , if your friend's idea of recreation is physical activity , bowling , or playing hockey , biking or gardening , if your friends drink a little , but not too much , and they eat right , and they're engaged , and they're trusting and trustworthy , that is going to have the biggest impact over time .	相反地 , 如果你的朋友對休閒活動的想法是體力活動 , 保齡球或打曲棍球騎腳踏車或園藝如果你的朋友喝點酒 , 但不是過量 , 他們會吃對的 , 他們會很投入 , 而且信任和信任 , 隨著時間 , 會有最大的影響 。
diets don't work . no diet in the history of the world has ever worked for more than two percent of the population .	減肥是行不通的 。 飲食在世界歷史上從來沒有人為超過百分之二的人口工作過
exercise programs usually start in january ; they're usually done by october .	運動計劃通常一月開始十月就結束
when it comes to longevity there is no short term fix in a pill or anything else .	關於長壽並沒有短期的解決方案 , 不管是藥丸或其他的 ,
but when you think about it , your friends are longterm adventures , and therefore , perhaps the most significant thing you can do to add more years to your life , and life to your years . thank you very much .	但當你仔細想想 , 你的朋友是長期的冒險 , 因此 , 也許你能做的最重要的事情是增加年歲 , 增加年歲 。 謝謝你 。
ink that conducts electricity ; a window that turns from clear to opaque at the flip of a switch ; a jelly that makes music . all this stuff exists , and catarina mota says: it's time to play with it . mota leads us on a tour of surprising and cool new materials , and suggests that the way we'll figure out what they're good for is to experiment , tinker and have fun .	傳導電流的墨水一扇從明顯轉變為不透明的窗戶一旦轉換成了音樂 , 所有東西都存在 , 而catanamota就說了:該是時候讓我們玩樂了 。 mota帶領我們參觀一個驚喜和酷炫的新材料然後他提醒了我們該如何做實驗 , 要嘗試 , tker , 要有樂趣
creativity , design , technology	創意、設計、科技 。
catarina mota: play with smart materials	catarinamota:玩玩玩聰明的材料 。
i have a friend in portugal whose grandfather built a vehicle out of a bicycle and a washing machine so he could transport his family .	我在葡萄牙有位朋友 , 他的祖父用腳踏車和洗衣機造了一台車 , 讓他能夠運送家人 。
he did it because he couldn't afford a car , but also because he knew how to build one .	他這麼做是因為他負擔不起車子 , 也是因為他知道如何蓋車 。
there was a time when we understood how things worked and how they were made , so we could build and repair them , or at the very least make informed decisions about what to buy .	曾幾何時 , 我們了解事物是如何運作的 , 如何被製造出來 , 我們就能建造、修復它們 , 至少能根據購買來做出明確的決策 。
many of these doityourself practices were lost in the second half of the 20th century .	在二十世紀的後半 , 許多diy的做法在二十世紀的後半就消失了 。
but now , the maker community and the opensource model are bringing this kind of knowledge about how things work and what they're made of back into our lives , and i believe we need to take them to the next level , to the components things are made of .	但現在 , 自造者社群和開放原始碼的模式正在將這類知識帶回我們的生活中 , 我相信我們需要把這些知識帶到下一個階段 , 由零件組成 。
for the most part , we still know what traditional materials like paper and textiles are made of and how they are produced .	大部分的時候 , 我們仍然知道紙和紡織品等傳統材料是由什麼製造的 , 以及它們的生產方式 。
but now we have these amazing , futuristic composites plastics that change shape , paints that conduct electricity , pigments that change color , fabrics that light up .	但現在我們有了這些奇妙、未來化的複合材料 , 可以改變形狀、可以導電的顏料、可以改變顏色的顏料、會發光的布料 。
let me show you some examples .	讓我給你們看一些例子 。
so conductive ink allows us to paint circuits instead of using the traditional printed circuit boards or wires .	導電油墨讓我們不用傳統印刷電路或電線來繪畫電路 。
in the case of this little example i'm holding , we used it to create a touch sensor that reacts to my skin by turning on this little light .	在我手上拿著的這個小例子中 , 我們用它來製造一個觸控感應器 , 通過打開這個小光線 , 針對我的皮膚做出反應 。
conductive ink has been used by artists , but recent developments indicate that we will soon be able to use it in laser printers and pens .	藝術家早已在用導電油墨 , 但近期的開發顯示 , 我們很快就能把它用在雷射印表機和筆上 。
and this is a sheet of acrylic infused with colorless lightdiffusing particles .	這塊丙烯酸纖維附滿了無色的散光粒子 。
what this means is that , while regular acrylic only diffuses light around the edges , this one illuminates across the entire surface when i turn on the lights around it .	這意味著 , 雖然普通的丙烯酸纖維只會在邊緣散光 , 但當我打開燈時 , 它會在整個表面上發光 。
two of the known applications for this material include interior design and multitouch systems .	這類材質的應用 , 包括室內設計和多點觸控系統 。
and thermochromic pigments change color at a given temperature .	熱變色的顏料在特定溫度下會改變顏色 。
so i'm going to place this on a hot plate that is set to a temperature only slightly higher than ambient and you can see what happens .	所以我要把這個放到熱板上 , 把這個溫度設定在比環境高一點點的地方 , 大家可以看到會發生什麼事 。
so one of the principle applications for this material is , amongst other things , in baby bottles , so it indicates when the contents are cool enough to drink .	這項材料主要的應用是在嬰兒奶瓶上它能顯示內容物是否涼了可以喝了
so these are just a few of what are commonly known as smart materials .	這些只是一些常被稱為智慧型材料的例子 。
in a few years , they will be in many of the objects and technologies we use on a daily basis .	再過幾年 , 它們就會成為我們日常生活中常用物品和技術的一部分 。
we may not yet have the flying cars science fiction promised us , but we can have walls that change color depending on temperature , keyboards that roll up , and windows that become opaque at the flick of a switch .	我們可能還沒辦法擁有科幻小說中會出現的飛天車科幻小說裡會有改變顏色的牆壁 , 依溫度而改變顏色的鍵盤捲起來的鍵盤 , 開關就會變得不透明的窗戶 。
so i'm a social scientist by training , so why am i here today talking about smart materials ?	我是社會科學家 , 所以 , 我為什麼要在這裡談論智慧型材料 ?
well first of all , because i am a maker .	首先 , 因為我是個製造家 。
i'm curious about how things work and how they are made , but also because i believe we should have a deeper understanding of the components that make up our world , and right now , we don't know enough about these hightech composites our future will be made of .	我對事物的運作感到好奇 , 它們是如何被製造出來的 , 也因為我相信 , 我們應該要更深入了解建構出我們世界的元素 , 而現在 , 我們對於這些高科技結合物的未來還不夠了解 。
smart materials are hard to obtain in small quantities .	智慧型材料難以在少量下取得 。
there's barely any information available on how to use them , and very little is said about how they are produced .	幾乎沒有任何關於如何使用它們的資訊 , 很少人說它們是如何被製造出來的 。
so for now , they exist mostly in this realm of trade secrets and patents only universities and corporations have access to .	目前 , 它們主要存在於商業機密和專利中 , 只有大學和企業能取得 。
so a little over three years ago , kirsty boyle and i started a project we called open materials .	大約三年前 , 我和克絲蒂•波爾開始了一個計畫 , 我們稱之為 「 公開材料 」 。
it's a website where we , and anyone else who wants to join us , share experiments , publish information , encourage others to contribute whenever they can , and aggregate resources such as research papers and tutorials by other makers like ourselves .	在這個網站中 , 我們和任何想要加入的人都可以分享實驗成果 , 發表資訊鼓勵其他人隨時隨地做出貢獻並收集像我們一樣的研究報告和導資料
we would like it to become a large , collectively generated database of doityourself information on smart materials .	我們希望它能變成一個大型、集體生成的 , 用智慧型材料來發送自己的信息庫 。
but why should we care how smart materials work and what they are made of ?	但 , 為什麼我們要在乎智慧型材料的運作方式以及它們的組成方式 ?
first of all , because we can't shape what we don't understand , and what we don't understand and use ends up shaping us .	首先 , 因為我們無法形塑我們不了解的東西 , 而我們不了解且使用的東西最後會形塑我們 。
the objects we use , the clothes we wear , the houses we live in , all have a profound impact on our behavior , health and quality of life .	我們用的物品 , 我們穿的衣服 , 我們住的房子 , 都對我們的行為、健康和生活品質有著深遠的影響 。
so if we are to live in a world made of smart materials , we should know and understand them .	所以如果我們要活在一個由智慧型材料構成的世界 , 我們應該要知道且了解它們 。
secondly , and just as important , innovation has always been fueled by tinkerers .	第二點 , 同樣重要的是 , 創新總是由改造者推動的 。
so many times , amateurs , not experts , have been the inventors and improvers of things ranging from mountain bikes to semiconductors , personal computers , airplanes .	很多時候 , 業餘人士 , 不是專家 , 是發明家和改進者 , 從山腳踏車到半導體、個人電腦、飛機等都有 。
the biggest challenge is that material science is complex and requires expensive equipment .	最大的挑戰是材料科學很複雜 , 需要昂貴的設備 。
but that's not always the case .	但事實並非全然如此 。
two scientists at university of illinois understood this when they published a paper on a simpler method for making conductive ink .	伊利諾大學有兩位科學家 , 當時發表了一篇論文 , 用較簡單的方法製作導電油墨 。
jordan bunker , who had had no experience with chemistry until then , read this paper and reproduced the experiment at his maker space using only offtheshelf substances and tools .	jordanbunker在讀這篇論文後完全沒有化學經驗他在他的造物空間中只靠現成的物質和工具重現了這個實驗
he used a toaster oven , and he even made his own vortex mixer , based on a tutorial by another scientist/maker .	他用烤箱甚至根據其他科學家的說明書自製試管混合器
jordan then published his results online , including all the things he had tried and didn't work , so others could study and reproduce it .	喬登接著在網路上發佈了他的結果 , 包括他試過、不成功的所有試驗結果 , 讓其他人可以學習並進行複製 。
so jordan's main form of innovation was to take an experiment created in a wellequipped lab at the university and recreate it in a garage in chicago using only cheap materials and tools he made himself .	喬登創新的主要形式就是在設備精良的大學實驗室裡進行一項由設備精密的實驗在芝加哥的車庫裡只用便宜的材料和工具他自己製作
and now that he published this work , others can pick up where he left and devise even simpler processes and improvements .	現在 , 他發表了這項研究 , 其他人可以接續並設計更簡單的處理程序和改善 。
another example i'd like to mention her project's goal is to highlight the expressive qualities of materials while focusing on the creativity and skills of the builder .	另外一個例子 , 我想提到她的專案計畫的目標 , 是要強調材料的表達性質 , 同時要強調建材的創意和技能 。
electronics kits are very powerful in that they teach us how things work , but the constraints inherent in their design influence the way we learn .	電子組件非常強大 , 它們教導我們事情的運作方式 , 但限制本身就影響了我們學習的方式 。
so hannah's approach , on the other hand , is to formulate a series of techniques for creating unusual objects that free us from predesigned constraints by teaching us about the materials themselves .	漢娜的辦法 , 另一方面 , 是發想出一系列的技術來創造特別的物體 , 讓我們能不受限於設計的限制 , 來教導我們有關材料本身的知識 。
so amongst hannah's many impressive experiments , this is one of my favorites .	在漢娜眾多令人印象深刻的實驗中 , 這是我最喜歡的一個 。
[ " paper speakers " ] what we're seeing here is just a piece of paper with some copper tape on it connected to an mp3 player and a magnet .	[紙喇叭]我們現在看到的只是一張紙上面貼了一些銅線 , 連到mp3和磁鐵上
so based on the research by marcelo coelho from mit , hannah created a series of paper speakers out of a wide range of materials from simple copper tape to conductive fabric and ink .	根據麻省理工科爾荷州理工學院的研究 , 漢娜用一系列的紙喇叭 , 從簡單的銅膠帶到導電布和油墨 。
just like jordan and so many other makers , hannah published her recipes and allows anyone to copy and reproduce them .	就像約旦和許多其它的製造者漢娜把食譜公開讓任何人都能複製和繁殖
but paper electronics is one of the most promising branches of material science in that it allows us to create cheaper and flexible electronics .	但紙電子是物質科學中最理想的分支之一 , 它讓我們能創造出較便宜且有彈性的電子 。
so hannah's artisanal work , and the fact that she shared her findings , opens the doors to a series of new possibilities that are both aesthetically appealing and innovative .	漢娜的手工藝成品和她分享發現的事實 , 讓一系列美感與創新的新可能性開啟了她的大門 。
so the interesting thing about makers is that we create out of passion and curiosity , and we are not afraid to fail .	製造者有趣的地方在於 , 我們創造出熱情和好奇心 , 我們並不害怕失敗 。
we often tackle problems from unconventional angles , and , in the process , end up discovering alternatives or even better ways to do things .	我們經常從非傳統角度解決問題 , 最後發現替代方案 , 甚至更好的方式來做事 。
so the more people experiment with materials , the more researchers are willing to share their research , and manufacturers their knowledge , the better chances we have to create technologies that truly serve us all .	所以越多人在材料上實驗越多研究人員願意分享他們的研究生產者他們的知識我們就有越好的機會創造出服務所有人的科技
so i feel a bit as ted nelson must have when , in the early 1970s , he wrote , " you must understand computers now . "	我覺得我應該有點像泰德尼爾森在1970年代早期寫下 " 你現在應該要了解電腦 "
back then , computers were these large mainframes only scientists cared about , and no one dreamed of even having one at home .	當時 , 電腦是只有科學家在關心的大型計算機甚至沒有人想過要在家裝一個
so it's a little strange that i'm standing here and saying , " you must understand smart materials now . "	所以 , 我站在這裡說 , 有點奇怪 , 「 你現在必須要了解智慧型材料 。 」
just keep in mind that acquiring preemptive knowledge about emerging technologies is the best way to ensure that we have a say in the making of our future .	請記住 , 取得新興科技的先驅知識是確保我們能對自己的未來有發言權的最佳方式 。
when we drive , we get into a glass bubble , lock the doors and press the accelerator , relying on our eyes to guide us even though we can only see the few cars ahead of and behind us . but what if cars could share data with each other about their position and velocity , and use predictive models to calculate the safest routes for everyone on the road ? jennifer healey imagines a world without accidents .	當我們開車時 , 我們會進入一個玻璃氣泡 , 鎖定門和按下加速器 , 靠著我們的眼睛引導我們儘管我們只能看到前面和後面幾個車子 。 但如果車子能和彼此分享資料 , 關於它們的位置和速度 , 用預測模型來計算在路上每個人的安全路線 ? 珍妮•嘿 , 不意外地想像一個沒有意外的世界 。
jennifer healey: if cars could talk , accidents might be avoidable	珍妮佛•喜利:如果車子能說話 , 意外可能可以避免發生事故 。
let's face it: driving is dangerous .	承認吧開車是危險的
it's one of the things that we don't like to think about , but the fact that religious icons and good luck charms show up on dashboards around the world betrays the fact that we know this to be true .	這是我們不喜歡去思考的事情之一 , 但事實是 , 宗教圖像和好運迷圖出現在世界各地的儀表板上 , 背叛了我們所知道的事實 。
car accidents are the leading cause of death in people ages 16 to 19 in the united states leading cause of death and 75 percent of these accidents have nothing to do with drugs or alcohol .	車禍是美國16至19歲死亡的主因車禍是死亡的主因而當中百分之七十五的車禍跟毒品或酒精無關
no one can say for sure , but i remember my first accident .	沒有人能肯定說 , 但我記得我的第一次意外 。
i was a young driver out on the highway , and the car in front of me , i saw the brake lights go on .	當時我還年輕在高速公路上 , 前面的車子 , 我看到煞車燈亮了 。
i'm like , " okay , all right , this guy is slowing down , i'll slow down too . "	我說: 「 好吧 , 這傢伙慢了 , 我也會慢下來 。 」
i step on the brake .	我踩煞車 。
but no , this guy isn't slowing down .	但 , 不 , 這傢伙並沒有慢下來 。
this guy is stopping , dead stop , dead stop on the highway .	這傢伙在高速公路上停車 , 停車 , 死路段 。
it was just going 65 to zero ?	只能飛65到0嗎 ?
i slammed on the brakes .	我踩煞車 。
i felt the abs kick in , and the car is still going , and it's not going to stop , and i know it's not going to stop , and the air bag deploys , the car is totaled , and fortunately , no one was hurt .	我感覺到abs啟動了 , 車子還在 , 它不會停下來 , 我知道車子不會停下來 , 空氣袋子開了 , 車子完全安裝了 , 幸運的是 , 沒人會受傷 。
but i had no idea that car was stopping , and i think we can do a lot better than that .	但我完全沒想到那輛車會停我認為我們可以做得更好
i think we can transform the driving experience by letting our cars talk to each other .	我認為我們可以改變駕駛經驗 , 做法是讓車子彼此交談 。
i just want you to think a little bit about what the experience of driving is like now .	我希望各位能思考一下這種開車的體驗 , 現在的情況 。
get into your car . close the door . you're in a glass bubble .	上車 。 關上門 。 你在一個玻璃泡泡裡 。
you can't really directly sense the world around you .	你無法直接感受周遭的世界 。
you're in this extended body .	你在這個延伸的身體裡 。
you're tasked with navigating it down partiallyseen roadways , in and amongst other metal giants , at superhuman speeds .	你的任務是要引導它 , 讓它在部份看不見的道路上 , 和其他巨大的金屬巨人之間 , 以超人的速度前進 。
okay ? and all you have to guide you are your two eyes .	好嗎 ? 你只需要指引你是你的兩個眼睛 。
okay , so that's all you have , eyes that weren't really designed for this task , but then people ask you to do things like , you want to make a lane change , what's the first thing they ask you do ?	好的 , 這就是你所有的眼睛不是為了這個任務而設計的然後人們要求你做這樣的事例如 , 你要換條車道第一件要做的事是什麼 ?
take your eyes off the road . that's right .	把你的眼睛從路面上移下來 , 沒錯 。
stop looking where you're going , turn , check your blind spot , and drive down the road without looking where you're going .	不要再看你要去哪裡 , 轉過身來 , 檢查你的盲點 , 不看你要去哪裡 。
you and everyone else . this is the safe way to drive .	你和所有其他人 。 這是安全駕駛 。
why do we do this ? because we have to , we have to make a choice , do i look here or do i look here ?	為什麼要這樣做 ? 因為我們必須選擇 , 我們要看這裡 , 還是看這裡 ?
and usually we do a fantastic job picking and choosing what we attend to on the road .	通常我們在路上採取了不起的工作 。
but occasionally we miss something .	但偶爾我們會錯失一些東西 。
occasionally we sense something wrong or too late .	偶爾我們會感覺到不對或太遲的感覺 。
in countless accidents , the driver says , " i didn't see it coming . "	無數的意外 , 司機說: 「 我沒看到它要來 。 」
and i believe that . i believe that .	我相信這一點 。 我相信 。
we can only watch so much .	我們只能看到這麼多東西 。
but the technology exists now that can help us improve that .	但現存的科技 , 能協助我們改善它 。
in the future , with cars exchanging data with each other , we will be able to see not just three cars ahead and three cars behind , to the right and left , all at the same time , bird's eye view , we will actually be able to see into those cars .	在未來 , 有了車輛互相交換資料 , 我們不只能看到前面三輛車 , 後面三輛車 , 右邊和左邊全都看到 , 同時 , 鳥類的視野 , 我們確實能看到那些車子的視野 。
we will be able to see the velocity of the car in front of us , to see how fast that guy's going or stopping .	我們可以看見前面車輛的速度 , 看看他能走得多快或不停 。
if that guy's going down to zero , i'll know .	如果那個人要降到零 , 我會知道 。
and with computation and algorithms and predictive models , we will be able to see the future .	有了計算、演算法和預測模型 , 我們就能看到未來 。
you may think that's impossible .	你可能認為這不可能 。
how can you predict the future ? that's really hard .	你要如何預測未來 ? 這真的很困難 。
actually , no . with cars , it's not impossible .	實際上 , 不對 , 車子不是不可能的
cars are threedimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity .	車是三維立體的物體 , 有固定的位置和速度 。
they travel down roads .	它們沿著道路行走 。
often they travel on prepublished routes .	他們經常旅行到已出版的路線上 。
it's really not that hard to make reasonable predictions about where a car's going to be in the near future .	要合理地預測車子在不久的將來會變成什麼樣子並不困難
even if , when you're in your car and some motorcyclist comes bshoom ! 85 miles an hour down , lanesplitting i know you've had this experience that guy didn't " just come out of nowhere . "	即便如此 , 當你坐在車子裡 , 遇到一些摩托車騎士 , 以時速85英里降下 , 車道我知道你有過這種經歷 , 有人沒有 「 無中生有 。 」
that guy's been on the road probably for the last half hour .	那個人在路上可能已經走了半小時了 。
right ? i mean , somebody's seen him .	對吧 ? 我的意思是 , 有人見過他 。
ten , 20 , 30 miles back , someone's seen that guy , and as soon as one car sees that guy and puts him on the map , he's on the map position , velocity , good estimate he'll continue going 85 miles an hour .	10 , ~ 20 , 30英里前 , 有人看到那個人 , 一旦有車看到那個人 , 將他放在地圖上 , 他就在地圖上位置 , 速度 , 估計他會以每小時85英哩的速度繼續前進 。
you'll know , because your car will know , because that other car will have whispered something in his ear , like , " by the way , five minutes , motorcyclist , watch out . "	你會知道 , 因為你的車會知道 , 因為其他車也會在他的耳邊小聲說一些話 , 比如: 「 順道一提 , 五分鐘 , 摩托車騎士 , 請小心 。 」
you can make reasonable predictions about how cars behave .	你可以合理的預測車的行為
i mean , they're newtonian objects .	我的意思是 , 它們是牛頓的物體 。
that's very nice about them .	這對他們來說是很棒的 。
so how do we get there ?	那我們要如何做到呢 ?
we can start with something as simple as sharing our position data between cars , just sharing gps .	我們可以開始分享我們車子間的位置資料就只是分享gps
if i have a gps and a camera in my car , i have a pretty precise idea of where i am and how fast i'm going .	如果我的車上有gps和照相機 , 我就能精確地知道我在哪裡 , 及我走得多快 。
with computer vision , i can estimate where the cars around me are , sort of , and where they're going .	用電腦視覺 , 我可以估計我周圍的車子在哪裡 , 以及他們要往哪裡去 。
and same with the other cars .	其他車也一樣 。
they can have a precise idea of where they are , and sort of a vague idea of where the other cars are .	車子的位置可以準確的知道其他車子在哪
what happens if two cars share that data , if they talk to each other ?	如果兩部車子能分享資料 , 如果它們能彼此交談 , 會發生什麼事 ?
i can tell you exactly what happens .	我可以告訴你發生了什麼事 。
professor bob wang and his team have done computer simulations of what happens when fuzzy estimates combine , even in light traffic , when cars just share gps data , and we've moved this research out of the computer simulation and into robot test beds that have the actual sensors that are in cars now on these robots: stereo cameras , gps , and the twodimensional laser range finders that are common in backup systems .	bobwang教授和他的團隊做了電腦模擬模擬 , 估計會發生什麼事 , 甚至在輕量車輛上進行 , 讓車子可以共用gps資料 , 我們將這個研究帶出電腦模擬 , 送到裝有感應器的機器人床上 , 裝有實在的感應器 , 裝在機器人上:立體攝影機、gps , 以及2d雷射雷射測距儀 , 這些都是常用的系統 。
we also attach a discrete shortrange communication radio , and the robots talk to each other .	我們還裝上一台短距的無線電機 , 讓機器人彼此對話 。
when these robots come at each other , they track each other's position precisely , and they can avoid each other .	當這些機器人彼此碰撞時 , 它們會精確地追蹤彼此的位置 , 它們能夠避開彼此 。
we're now adding more and more robots into the mix , and we encountered some problems .	我們現在在這個組合中加入越來越多的機器人 , 我們遇到了一些問題 。
one of the problems , when you get too much chatter , it's hard to process all the packets , so you have to prioritize , and that's where the predictive model helps you .	其中一個問題是 , 當你太過聊天 , 很難去處理所有的封包 , 所以你得把重點放在第一 , 這就是預測模型幫助你的所在 。
if your robot cars are all tracking the predicted trajectories , you don't pay as much attention to those packets .	如果你的機器人車子在追蹤預測軌跡 , 你不會把注意力放在那些資訊封包上 。
you prioritize the one guy who seems to be going a little off course .	首先你對這個稍微偏離軌道的傢伙進行排序 。
that guy could be a problem .	那個人可能是個問題 。
and you can predict the new trajectory .	你可以預測新的軌跡 。
so you don't only know that he's going off course , you know how .	所以你不只知道他要偏離航道 , 知道如何 。
and you know which drivers you need to alert to get out of the way .	而且你知道哪些司機需要提醒才能離開 。
and we wanted to do how can we best alert everyone ?	我們想做的是 , 我們要如何警告大家 ?
how can these cars whisper , " you need to get out of the way ? "	這些車要怎麼小聲地說: 「 你得趕緊離開這裡 ? 」
well , it depends on two things: one , the ability of the car , and second the ability of the driver .	嗯 , 這取決於兩件事:一 , 車子的性能 , 第二是駕駛的能力 。
if one guy has a really great car , but they're on their phone or , you know , doing something , they're not probably in the best position to react in an emergency .	如果有人有一輛很棒的車 , 但他們在手機上 , 或者做些什麼 , 他們可能就無法在緊急情況下做出最佳反應 。
so we started a separate line of research doing driver state modeling .	所以我們開始了分離的研究 , 做關於駕駛者狀態的模型 。
and now , using a series of three cameras , we can detect if a driver is looking forward , looking away , looking down , on the phone , or having a cup of coffee .	現在 , 用三台攝影機 , 我們可以偵測到駕駛人是否會期待前進、看遠、看手機 , 或喝杯咖啡 。
we can predict the accident and we can predict who , which cars , are in the best position to move out of the way to calculate the safest route for everyone .	我們可以預知事故我們可以預測是誰 , 哪些車子最好離開路線去計算每個人最安全的路線
fundamentally , these technologies exist today .	基本上 , 這些技術現今就存在了 。
i think the biggest problem that we face is our own willingness to share our data .	我認為我們面臨的最大問題是我們自己的意願去分享我們的資料 。
i think it's a very disconcerting notion , this idea that our cars will be watching us , talking about us to other cars , that we'll be going down the road in a sea of gossip .	我想這是個很讓人不安的概念 , 我們的車子會看著我們 , 和其他車子聊天 , 我們將在八卦大海上行駛 。
but i believe it can be done in a way that protects our privacy , just like right now , when i look at your car from the outside , i don't really know about you .	但我相信 , 它能被做成保護我們的隱私的方式 , 就像現在 , 當我從外面看你的車時 , 我真的不了解你 。
if i look at your license plate number , i don't really know who you are .	如果我看著你的牌照號碼 , 我真的不知道你是誰 。
i believe our cars can talk about us behind our backs .	我相信 , 我們的車子可以在我們的背後談我們 。
and i think it's going to be a great thing .	我覺得這將會是件好事 。
i want you to consider for a moment if you really don't want the distracted teenager behind you to know that you're braking , that you're coming to a dead stop .	我希望你們能考慮一下如果你真的不希望那煩人的青少年在你背後知道你在煞車 , 知道你要停下來 。
by sharing our data willingly , we can do what's best for everyone .	藉由自願地分享我們的數據 , 我們可以為每個人做最好的事 。
so let your car gossip about you .	所以讓你的車子跟你說話吧
it's going to make the roads a lot safer .	它會讓道路更安全 。
x prize founder peter diamandis talks about how he helped stephen hawking fulfill his dream of going to space by flying together into the upper atmosphere and experiencing weightlessness at zero g .	x獎得主彼得•戴曼迪斯談到他如何協助史蒂芬•霍金完成了他的夢想 , 讓他能一起飛上大氣 , 並體驗到在0g時的無重力 。
business , flight , science , short talk , space , technology , universe	商業、飛行、科學、短暫的談話、空間、科技、宇宙等 ,
peter diamandis on stephen hawking in zero g	彼得•戴曼迪斯在史蒂芬•霍金斯 , 00萬得主導一切 。
those of you who know me know how passionate i am about opening the space frontier .	認識我的人都知道我對打開太空新領域有多熱情 。
so when i had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity , it was incredible .	所以當我有機會給這位世界重力專家無重力的經驗時 , 那真是不可思議 。
and i want to tell you that story .	我想告訴你們那個故事 。
i first met him through the archon x prize for genomics .	我第一次見到他是基因學的archonxprize 。
it's a competition we're holding , the second x prize , for the first team to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days .	這是我們舉辦的競賽 , 第二個xprize , 讓第一組在10天內完成100個人類基因組測序 。
we have something called the genome 100 100 individuals we're sequencing as part of that .	我們有我們稱之為基因組100個個個體的定序 。
craig venter chairs that event .	克萊格•凡特那件事的椅子 。
and i met professor hawking , and he said his dream was to travel into space .	我和霍金教授見面 , 他說他的夢想是上太空旅行 。
and i said , " i can't take you there , but i can take you into weightlessness into zerog .	我說: 「 我不能帶你上去 , 但我可以帶你進入無重力場 , 進入零度 。
and he said , on the spot , " absolutely , yes . "	他說: 「 絕對是的 。 」
well , the only way to experience zerog on earth is actually with parabolic flight , weightless flight .	嗯 , 唯一能體驗世上無重力飛行的方法 , 其實是有拋物線飛行、無重力飛行 。
you take an airplane , you fly over the top , you're weightless for 25 seconds .	你搭飛機 , 飛到頂端 , 你有25秒無重力 。
come back down , you weigh twice as much .	再下來 , 你的體重是兩倍 。
you do it again and again .	你不斷重複這個動作 。
you can get eight , 10 minutes of weightlessness how nasa's trained their astronauts for so long .	你可以有8到10分鐘的無重力經驗 , 美國太空總署訓練他們的太空人太久了 。
we set out to do this .	我們打算這麼做 。
it took us 11 years to become operational .	我們花了11年才開始營運 。
and we announced that we were going to fly stephen hawking .	我們宣布要飛史蒂芬•霍金 。
we had one government agency and one company aircraft operator say , you're crazy , don't do that , you're going kill the guy .	我們有一家政府機關和一家公司的操作員說 , 你瘋了 , 不要這樣做 , 你就會殺了那傢伙 。
and he wanted to go .	他想要去 。
we worked hard to get all the permissions .	我們很努力取得所有的同意 。
and six months later , we sat down at kennedy space center .	六個月後 , 我們在甘迺迪太空中心坐下 。
we had a press conference , we announced our intent to do one zerog parabola , give him 25 seconds of zerog .	我們開了一場記者會 , 我們宣布我們打算要做一個無重力拋物面鏡 , 給他25秒的零 。
and if it went really well , we might do three parabolas .	如果一切順利 , 我們可能會做三個拋物線飛行 。
well , we asked him why he wanted to go up and do this .	嗯 , 我們問他 , 為什麼他要上台來做這件事 ?
and what he said , for me , was very moving .	他對我說的話非常感人 。
he said , " life on earth is at an everincreasing risk of being wiped out by disaster . . .	他說: 「 地球上的生命有不斷增加的風險被災難摧毀......
i think the human race doesn't have a future if it doesn't go into space .	我認為如果人類不上太空 , 就沒有未來 。
i therefore want to encourage public interest in space . "	所以我想鼓勵大眾對太空的興趣 。 」
we took him out to the kennedy space center , up inside the nasa vehicle , into the back of the zerog airplane .	我們帶他到甘迺迪太空中心 , 飛到nasa的車上 , 飛機的後面 。
we had about 20 people who made donations we raised $150 , 000 in donations for children's charities who flew with us .	我們有大約二十個人捐款我們捐十五萬美金給那些跟我們一起飛的兒童慈善機構 。
a few tedsters here .	這裡有幾位tedster 。
we set up a whole er .	我們成立了全急診室 。
we had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane .	我們有四個急診醫生和兩位護士在飛機上
we were monitoring his po2 of his blood , his heart rate , his blood pressure .	我們監測他的血液、他的心跳、他的血壓 。
we had everything all set in case of an emergency ; god knows , you don't want to hurt this worldrenowned expert .	萬一發生緊急事故 , 我們都準備好了 ; 天知道 , 你並不想要傷害這位世界知名的專家 。
we took off from the shuttle landing facility , where the shuttle takes off and lands .	我們從太空梭降落場起飛 , 太空梭起降 。
and my partner byron lichtenberg and i carefully suspended him into zerog .	我和我的夥伴byronlichtenberg小心翼翼的讓他停止到零 。
once he was there , [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like .	一旦他抵達那裡 , 我們就讓他去體驗無重力的真正感覺 。
and after that first parabola , you know , the doc said everything is great . he was smiling , and we said go .	在第一個拋物線飛行過後 , 你知道 , 醫生說一切都很棒 。 他在笑 , 我們說要開始 。
so we did a second parabola .	所以我們做了第二個拋物線飛行 。
we actually floated an apple in homage to sir isaac newton because professor hawking holds the same chair at cambridge that isaac newton did .	我們其實是在艾薩克牛頓博士的致敬下漂浮的蘋果 , 因為霍金教授在劍橋大學擔任和牛頓相同的椅子 。
and we did a fourth , and a fifth and a sixth .	我們做了第四、五、第六次 。
and a seventh and an eighth .	第七和第八次 。
and this man does not look like a 65yearold wheelchairbound man .	這個人看起來不像一個65歲的輪椅男子 。
he was so happy .	他很開心 。
we are living on a precious jewel , and it's during our lifetime that we're moving off this planet .	我們生活在一個珍貴的珠寶中 , 我們正在離開這個星球 。
please join us in this epic adventure .	請加入我們這趟史詩般的探險 。
medical animator david bolinsky presents 3 minutes of stunning animation that show the bustling life inside a cell .	醫學動畫家大衛波林斯基在一個細胞內展現了3分鐘讓人驚訝的生命 。
design , entertainment , film , health , medicine , science , technology , visualizations	設計、娛樂、電影、健康、藥物、科學、科技、視覺化 。
david bolinsky animates a cell	大衛波林斯基對一個細胞進行動畫 ,
i'm a medical illustrator , and i come from a slightly different point of view .	我是醫學繪圖師 , 我從稍微不同的角度看事情 。
i've been watching , since i grew up , the expressions of truth and beauty in the arts and truth and beauty in the sciences .	自從我長大以來 , 我就一直在觀察著藝術、真與美的表現 , 以及科學中真與美的表現 。
and while these are both wonderful things in their own right they both have very wonderful things going for them truth and beauty as ideals that can be looked at by the sciences and by math are almost like the ideal conjoined twins that a scientist would want to date .	雖然這些都是他們自身的美妙事物 , 他們都有非常美妙的事物 , 能讓他們看到真與美 , 能被科學和數學給審視 , 就像理想中完美的連體雙胞胎 , 一個科學家想要約會 。
these are expressions of truth as awefull things , by meaning they are things you can worship .	這些是對 「 真 」 表示敬畏的表現 , 意思是 , 它們是你可以崇拜的事物 。
they are ideals that are powerful . they are irreducible .	它們是強大的理想 。 它們是不可思議的 。
they are unique . they are useful sometimes , often a long time after the fact .	它們是獨一無二的 , 有時是有用的 , 通常是很久之後才會發現的 。
and you can actually roll some of the pictures now , because i don't want to look at me on the screen .	現在你就可以開始播放一些照片了 , 因為我不想在螢幕上看到我 。
truth and beauty are things that are often opaque to people who are not in the sciences .	對非科學領域的人來說 , 真與美通常都不太可能 。
they are things that describe beauty in a way that is often only accessible if you understand the language and the syntax of the person who studies the subject in which truth and beauty is expressed .	它們描述了美麗事物 , 通常只有在你了解一個人的語言和語法中 , 才能夠理解這個主題的人所使用的真與美 。
if you look at the math , e=mc squared , if you look at the cosmological constant , where there's an anthropic ideal , where you see that life had to evolve from the numbers that describe the universe these are things that are really difficult to understand .	如果你看看數學 , e=mc平方 , 如果你看看宇宙的常數 , 那裡有一個人類的理想 , 你可以看到生命是從描述宇宙的數字進化出來的 。 這些是非常難理解的事物 。
and what i've tried to do since i had my training as a medical illustrator since i was taught animation by my father , who was a sculptor and my visual mentor i wanted to figure out a way to help people understand truth and beauty in the biological sciences by using animation , by using pictures , by telling stories so that the things that are not necessarily evident to people can be brought forth , and can be taught , and can be understood .	自從我被醫學插圖師教導我的動畫 , 他是雕塑家兼我的視覺導師 , 我想找到一個方法 , 幫助人們理解生物科學中的真與美 , 利用動畫 , 說故事 , 說出故事 , 這樣人們不見得能得到的東西 , 也能被教導 , 能被理解 。
students today are often immersed in an environment where what they learn is subjects that have truth and beauty embedded in them , but the way they're taught is compartmentalized and it's drawn down to the point where the truth and beauty are not always evident .	今日的學生常常沉浸在一種環境中 , 他們所學到的 , 是有真與美的主題 , 但他們被教導的方式是片面的 , 而它深深吸引到 , 真與美並不總是顯而易見的 。
it's almost like that old recipe for chicken soup where you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone .	就像你煮雞湯的古老食譜 , 直到香味消失為止 。
we don't want to do that to our students .	我們不想這樣對學生做 。
so we have an opportunity to really open up education .	所以我們有機會真正開放教育 。
and i had a telephone call from robert lue at harvard , in the molecular and cellular biology department , a couple of years ago . he asked me if my team and i would be interested and willing to really change how medical and scientific education is done at harvard .	幾年前 , 我接到哈佛大學分子與細胞生物學系的robertlue打來的電話 。 他問我我跟我的團隊有沒有興趣 , 願意改變哈佛醫學和科學教育的做法 。
so we embarked on a project that would explore the cell that would explore the truth and beauty inherent in molecular and cellular biology so that students could understand a larger picture that they could hang all of these facts on .	所以我們開始進行一個探索細胞的計畫 , 這個計畫可以探索分子和細胞生物學中固有的真與美 , 這樣學生才能了解所有這些事實背後的更大圖像 。
they could have a mental image of the cell as a large , bustling , hugely complicated city that's occupied by micromachines .	他們腦海中會出現一個細胞的圖像 , 是個繁忙、非常複雜的城市 , 由微機械佔據 。
and these micromachines really are at the heart of life .	而這些微機械確實位於生命的中心 。
these micromachines , which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over , are selfdirected , powerful , precise , accurate devices that are made out of strings of amino acids .	這些微機械 , 能讓世界各地的奈米工程師嫉妒 , 它們是自我引導、強大、精確的裝置 , 由胺基酸鏈所組成 。
and these micromachines power how a cell moves .	這些微機械讓細胞移動 。
they power how a cell replicates . they power our hearts .	它們驅動細胞複製 , 驅動我們的心臟 。
they power our minds .	它們影響了我們的心智 。
and so what we wanted to do was to figure out how we could make this story into an animation that would be the centerpiece of biovisions at harvard , which is a website that harvard has for its molecular and cellular biology students that will in addition to all the textual information , in addition to all the didactic stuff put everything together visually , so that these students would have an internalized view of what a cell really is in all of its truth and beauty , and be able to study with this view in mind , so that their imaginations would be sparked , so that their passions would be sparked and so that they would be able to go on and use these visions in their head to make new discoveries and to be able to find out , really , how life works .	所以我們想做的是 , 找出一個方法把這個故事變成一個動畫 , 會是哈佛大學bivisions的核心 , 一個哈佛大學為分子和細胞生物學學生所設立的網站 , 除了所有的文字資料外 , 這些學生將能視覺化 , 將細胞內的真相與美 , 能夠研究這些觀點 , 以此為目標 , 他們將能發揮他們的想像力 , 使得以發揮他們的想像力 , 使得他們能夠發現生命能夠被使用 。
so we set out by looking at how these molecules are put together .	所以我們開始研究這些分子如何被組合在一起 。
we worked with a theme , which is , you've got macrophages that are streaming down a capillary , and they're touching the surface of the capillary wall , and they're picking up information from cells that are on the capillary wall , and they are given this information that there's an inflammation somewhere outside , where they can't see and sense .	我們想出了一個主題 , 那就是 , 巨噬細胞正在沿著微血管噴流 , 它們會接觸到微血管壁的表面 , 它們會從微血管壁中提取資訊 , 它們會得到外面某處有發炎反應的資訊 , 在外面 , 看不見和感覺 。
but they get the information that causes them to stop , causes them to internalize that they need to make all of the various parts that will cause them to change their shape , and try to get out of this capillary and find out what's going on .	但它們得到的資訊會讓它們停止 , 讓它們內化 , 得要做出各式各樣的部分 , 才能讓它們改變形狀 , 試著從微血管中跳脫出來 , 找出發生了什麼事 。
so these molecular motors we had to work with the harvard scientists and databank models of the atomically accurate molecules and figure out how they moved , and figure out what they did .	所以這些分子馬達我們必須和哈佛的科學家合作 , 研究原子上精確的分子模型 , 並弄清楚它們是如何移動的 , 並弄清楚它們是怎麼做到的 。
and figure out how to do this in a way that was truthful in that it imparted what was going on , but not so truthful that the compact crowding in a cell would prevent the vista from happening .	並且弄清楚如何做到這一點 , 以確切的方式呈現發生了什麼事 , 但不說實話 , 一個細胞內極端擁擠的情況 , 就能避免視覺的發生 。
and so what i'm going to show you is a threeminute reader's digest version of the first aspect of this film that we produced . it's an ongoing project that's going to go another four or five years .	接下來我要讓各位看一段我們製作的影片第一部份的讀者消化版本 。 這是一個持續進行的專案計畫 , 會延續四到五年 。
and i want you to look at this and see the paths that the cell manufactures these little walking machines , they're called kinesins that take these huge loads that would challenge an ant in relative size .	請大家看這段影片 , 看到細胞製造的路 , 這些會走動的小機械 , 它們是驅動蛋白 , 負責大量使用 , 大量的貨物相對大小的工蟻 。
run the movie , please .	請播放這部電影 。
but these machines that power the inside of the cells are really quite amazing , and they really are the basis of all life because all of these machines interact with each other .	但這些驅動著細胞內部的機器真的很不可思議 , 它們真的是所有生命的基礎 , 因為所有這些機器彼此間的互動 。
they pass information to each other .	它們彼此傳遞信息 。
they cause different things to happen inside the cell .	它們造成細胞內不同現象的發生 。
and the cell will actually manufacture the parts that it needs on the fly , from information that's brought from the nucleus by molecules that read the genes .	細胞會利用讀取基因的分子從細胞核中取出它所需的零件 。
no life , from the smallest life to everybody here , would be possible without these little micromachines .	沒有生命 , 從最小的生命到這裡的每一個人 , 如果沒有這些微機械 , 就有可能實現 。
in fact , it would really , in the absence of these machines , have made the attendance here , chris , really quite sparse .	事實上 , 在沒有這些機器的情況下 , 克里斯 , 這裡的出席率真的很低 。
this is the fedex delivery guy of the cell .	這是細胞中的fedex快遞人員 。
this little guy is called the kinesin , and he pulls a sack that's full of brand new manufactured proteins to wherever it's needed in the cell whether it's to a membrane , whether it's to an organelle , whether it's to build something or repair something .	這個小傢伙叫做驅動蛋白 , 他拉著滿是全新的蛋白質到細胞所需的任何地方 , 不論是到細胞膜、細胞膜、器官 , 不論是用來製造或修復東西 。
and each of us has about 100 , 000 of these things running around , right now , inside each one of your 100 trillion cells .	而我們每個人體內都有大約10萬個這種小東西正在跑來跑去 , 而我們體內的每一百兆個細胞都有 。
so no matter how lazy you feel , you're not really intrinsically doing nothing .	所以 , 不論你感覺有多懶惰 , 本質上 , 你並沒有在做任何事 。
so what i want you to do when you go home is think about this , and think about how powerful our cells are .	所以 , 當你回家之後 , 我要你想想這一點 , 並想想我們的細胞有多強大 。
and think about some of the things that we're learning about cellular mechanics .	想想我們正在學習關於細胞機械的一些事情 。
once we figure out all that's going on and believe me , we know almost a percent of what's going on once we figure out what's going on , we're really going to be able to have a lot of control over what we do with our health , with what we do with future generations , and how long we're going to live .	一旦我們搞懂了一切 , 相信我 , 我們幾乎知道發生了什麼事 , 一旦我們搞清楚發生了什麼事 , 我們將能夠掌控我們對健康的掌控 , 掌握我們對未來世代的操作 , 以及我們能活多久 。
and hopefully we'll be able to use this to discover more truth , and more beauty .	希望我們能用這技術來發現更多的真與美 。
but it's really quite amazing that these cells , these micromachines , are aware enough of what the cell needs that they do their bidding .	但這些細胞 , 這些微機械 , 真的很不可思議 , 它們足以察覺細胞需要它們做它們的命令 。
they work together . they make the cell do what it needs to do .	它們合作 。 它們使細胞能做到它需要做的事 。
and their working together helps our bodies huge entities that they will never see function properly .	它們的合作協助我們身體一個巨大的實體 , 它們永遠不會看到正常的實體 。
enjoy the rest of the show . thank you .	請好好享受接下來的表演 。 謝謝 。
becky blanton planned to live in her van for a year and see the country , but when depression set in and her freelance job ended , her camping trip turned into homelessness . in this intimate talk , she describes her experience of becoming one of america's working homeless .	貝琪•布蘭頓打算在她的車上住一年 , 看看這個國家 , 但 , 當憂鬱症發作時 , 她的露營工作結束了 , 她的旅程變成了無家可歸 。 在這個親密的演講中 , 她描述了她成為美國工作無家可歸的經歷 。
adventure , happiness , life , personal growth , poverty , social change , society , storytelling	冒險、快樂、人生、個人成長、貧窮、社會改變、社會、說故事 。
becky blanton: the year i was homeless	beckyblanton:那一年我無家可歸 。
i'm a writer and a journalist , and i'm also an insanely curious person , so in 22 years as a journalist , i've learned how to do a lot of new things .	我是作家和記者 , 我也是個異性好奇的人 , 所以 , 身為記者 , 在22年內 , 我學會了很多新東西 。
and three years ago , one of the things i learned how to do was to become invisible .	三年前 , 我學到的其中一件事就是要變成隱形的 。
i became one of the working homeless .	我成了工作無家可歸者之一 。
i quit my job as a newspaper editor after my father died in february of that same year , and decided to travel .	我辭掉了報紙編輯的工作就在我父親同年二月去世之後 , 我決定去旅行 。
his death hit me pretty hard .	他的死讓我十分痛苦 。
and there were a lot of things that i wanted to feel and deal with while i was doing that .	當我在做這件事的時候 , 我想要感受並處理很多事情 。
i've camped my whole life . and i decided that living in a van for a year to do this would be like one long camping trip .	我一生都在露營 。 我決定住在旅行車裡一整年 , 要做這件事 , 就像一趟漫長的露營旅行 。
so i packed my cat , my rottweiler and my camping gear into a 1975 chevy van , and drove off into the sunset , having fully failed to realize three critical things .	所以我打包了我的貓 , 我的洛威爾和我的露營裝備 , 送到1975年雪佛蘭 , 開車去日落 , 完全沒能意識到三件重要的事 。
one: that society equates living in a permanent structure , even a shack , with having value as a person .	第一:社會等同於永恆的結構 , 甚至是一個小屋 , 身為人的價值 。
two: i failed to realize how quickly the negative perceptions of other people can impact our reality , if we let it .	第二:我沒有意識到 , 很快地 , 其他人的負面感受 , 會影響到我們的現實 , 只要我們放手 。
three: i failed to realize that homelessness is an attitude , not a lifestyle .	第三:我沒有意識到 , 無家可歸是一種態度 , 而非生活方式 。
at first , living in the van was great .	一開始 , 住在旅行車很棒 。
i showered in campgrounds . i ate out regularly .	我在營地洗澡、定期吃飯 。
and i had time to relax and to grieve .	我還有時間休息和哀悼悲痛 。
but then the anger and the depression about my father's death set in .	但接著 , 我父親死去的憤怒和沮喪出現了 。
my freelance job ended . and i had to get a fulltime job to pay the bills .	我的自由工作結束了 , 我得要有全職的工作來支付帳單 。
what had been a really mild spring turned into a miserably hot summer .	本來輕微的彈簧變成了一個極度炎熱的夏天 。
and it became impossible to park anywhere without being very obvious that i had a cat and a dog with me , and it was really hot .	到處都看不見我有一隻貓跟狗這實在是太燙了
the cat came and went through an open window in the van .	貓從車窗來回地跑
the doggy went into doggy day care .	這隻狗接受了日光照顧
whenever i could , i used employee showers in office buildings and truck stops .	每當我能在辦公大樓和卡車停靠時 , 我都會用淋浴設備 。
or i washed up in public rest rooms .	或在公眾衛生間洗身 。
nighttime temperatures in the van rarely dropped below 80 degrees fahrenheit , making it difficult or impossible to sleep .	夜間的車廂中很少在華氏80度以下讓人幾乎無法入睡
food rotted in the heat .	食物在熱氣中腐壞
ice in my ice chest melted within hours , and it was pretty miserable .	冰箱裡的冰巢會在幾小時之內融化 , 當時還蠻悲慘的 。
i couldn't afford to find an apartment , or couldn't afford an apartment that would allow me to have the rottweiler and the cat .	我找不到一間公寓 , 或買不起一間公寓 , 可以讓我找到一隻腐爛的貓和貓 。
and i refused to give them up , so i stayed in the van .	我拒絕放棄他們 , 所以我待在旅行車上 。
and when the heat made me too sick to walk the 50 feet to the public restroom outside my van at night , i used a bucket and a trash bag as a toilet .	當夜間的高溫讓我連走50英尺到公共洗手間時 , 我用桶和垃圾袋當廁所 。
when winter weather set in , the temperatures dropped below freezing . and they stayed there .	當冬天來臨時 , 溫度在冰點以下的狀態下降 。 他們待在那裡 。
and i faced a whole new set of challenges .	我面臨全新的挑戰 。
i parked a different place every night so i would avoid being noticed and hassled by the police .	每天晚上我都停車 , 以避免被警察察察發現且惹來爭執 。
i didn't always succeed .	我不是每次都成功 。
but i felt out of control of my life .	但我覺得我無法掌控我的人生 。
and i don't know when or how it happened , but the speed at which i went from being a talented writer and journalist to being a homeless woman , living in a van , took my breath away .	我不知道何時或如何發生 , 但我從一個有才華的作家和記者轉變成一個住在車裡的無家者 , 把我的呼吸帶走 。
i hadn't changed . my i . q . hadn't dropped .	我沒變 。 我的智商沒掉 。
my talent , my integrity , my values , everything about me remained the same .	我的才能、正直、價值觀 , 所有關於我的一切都是一樣的 。
but i had changed somehow .	但我有些改變了 。
i spiraled deeper and deeper into a depression .	我在沮喪時旋轉得更深、更深 。
and eventually someone referred me to a homeless health clinic .	最終 , 有人提醒我去一間無家可歸的健康診所 。
and i went . i hadn't bathed in three days .	我去了 。 我三天沒洗澡了 。
i was as smelly and as depressed as anyone in line .	我和排隊中的人一樣濃厚和沮喪 。
i just wasn't drunk or high .	我只是沒喝醉或喝醉過 。
and when several of the homeless men realized that , including a former university professor , they said , " you aren't homeless . why are you really here ? "	當一些無家者發現 , 包括一位前任大學教授 , 他們說: 「 你不是無家可歸的人 。 你為什麼在這裡 ? 」
other homeless people didn't see me as homeless , but i did .	其他無家者不認為我是無家可歸者 , 但我還是認為我是無家可歸的人 。
then the professor listened to my story and he said , " you have a job . you have hope .	那位教授聽了我的故事 , 他說: 「 你有工作 , 你有希望 。
the real homeless don't have hope . "	真正的無家者沒有希望 。 」
a reaction to the medication the clinic gave me for my depression left me suicidal . and i remember thinking , " if i killed myself , no one would notice . "	診所給我的憂鬱症 , 讓我有自殺傾向 。 我記得當時在想: 「 如果我自殺 , 沒有人會注意到 。 」
a friend told me , shortly after that , that she had heard that tim russert , a nationally renowned journalist , had been talking about me on national t . v .	不久之後 , 有一位朋友告訴我她聽說提姆•羅斯一個知名記者在全國廣播的電視節目上談到我
an essay i'd written about my father , the year before he died , was in tim's new book .	我曾寫過一篇關於我父親的文章在他死前一年寫在提姆的新書上
and he was doing the talk show circuit . and he was talking about my writing .	他當時正在演說節目電路上演說我的作品
and when i realized that tim russert , former moderator of " meet the press , " was talking about my writing , while i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , i started laughing .	當我發現提姆羅斯 , 《與媒體會面》的前主持人 , 正在談論我的寫作 , 那時我還住在一輛在沃爾瑪停車場的旅行車上 , 我開始大笑 。
i started laughing because it got to the point where , was i a writer , or was i a homeless woman ?	我開始笑了 , 因為接觸到那個時候 , 我是作家 , 還是無家可歸的女人 ?
so i went in the bookstore . and i found tim's book .	於是我走進書店 。 我找到提姆的書 。
and i stood there . and i reread my essay .	我站在那裡 。 我重新讀了我的論文 。
because i was a writer .	因為我是個作家 。
i was a writer .	我是個作家 。
shortly after that i moved back to tennessee .	在那之後不久我搬回了田納西
i alternated between living in a van and couch surfing with friends .	我和朋友住在旅行車裡 , 和沙發衝浪 。
and i started writing again .	我又開始寫作了 。
by the summer of the following year i was a working journalist .	接下來的夏天 , 我成了一名記者 。
i was winning awards . i was living in my own apartment .	我正在贏得獎項 。 我住在我自己的公寓 。
i was no longer homeless .	我不再無家可歸了 。
and i was no longer invisible .	我不再隱形了 。
thousands of people work full and parttime jobs , and live in their cars .	數以千計的人全職工作 , 兼職工作 , 住在他們的車上 。
but society continues to stigmatize and criminalize living in your vehicle or on the streets .	但社會持續歧視並將生活在車上或街頭的犯罪化 。
so the homeless , the working homeless , primarily remain invisible .	所以 , 無家者、工作無家者 , 大部份仍然是隱形的 。
but if you ever meet one , engage them , encourage them , and offer them hope .	但如果你遇到他們 , 加入他們 , 鼓勵他們 , 並給他們希望 。
the human spirit can overcome anything if it has hope .	人類的精神可以克服任何事物 , 如果它有希望的話 。
and i'm not here to be the poster girl for the homeless .	我不是來這裡做無家可歸的海報 。
i'm not here to encourage you to give money to the next panhandler you meet .	我不是來這裡鼓勵你們捐錢給下一個乞討者 。
but i am here to tell you that , based on my experience , people are not where they live , where they sleep , or what their life situation is at any given time .	但我在這裡要告訴各位 , 根據我的經驗 , 人們不是住在他們住的地方 , 他們在哪裡睡覺 , 或者他們的人生狀況在任何時間點 。
three years ago i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , and today i'm speaking at ted .	三年前我住在旅行車裡 , 在沃爾瑪停車場 , 今天我在ted演講 。
hope always , always finds a way . thank you .	希望總是能找到路 。 謝謝 。
at tedxchange , thailand's " mr . condom , " mechai viravaidya , walks us through the country's bold plan to raise its standard of living , starting in the 1970s . first step: population control . and that means a lot of frank , funny and very effective talk about condoms .	在tedxange , 泰國的 「 保險套先生 」 , mechaiviravaidya , 帶領我們走過全國大膽的計劃 , 以提升其生活水準 , 從1970年開始 。 首先是人口控制 。 這意味著有很多法蘭克、滑稽 , 和有效的討論保險套 。
culture , global issues , health , population , science	文化、全球議題、健康、人口、科學、科學 。
mechai viravaidya: how mr . condom made thailand a better place	技工:保險套讓泰國成為更好的地方 。
now , when i was a young man 40 years ago , the country was very , very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty .	四十年前 , 當我還是個年輕人時 , 這個國家非常、非常貧窮 , 許多人生活在貧窮的環境中 。
we decided to do something about it , but we didn't begin with a welfare program or a poverty reduction program .	我們決定要做點什麼 , 但我們不是從福利計畫開始 , 或從貧窮減少計畫開始 。
but we began with a familyplanning program , following a very successful maternal child health activity , sets of activities .	但我們從一個家族的育兒健康活動開始 , 接下來是非常成功的產婦健康活動 , 一系列活動 。
so basically , no one would accept family planning if their children didn't survive .	所以 , 基本上沒有人會接受如果他們的孩子無法生存的計劃 。
so the first step: get to the children , get to the mothers , and then follow up with family planning .	所以 , 第一步:先找孩子 , 找母親 , 然後再做家庭規劃 。
not just child mortality alone , you need also family planning .	不只是兒童死亡率 , 還需要節育計畫 。
now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it .	現在讓我帶各位回顧一下 , 為何我們需要這麼做 。
in my country , that was the case in 1974 .	在我的國家 , 那是1974年的案例 。
seven children per family tremendous growth at 3 . 3 percent .	每個家庭平均有七個小孩 , 成長率是極高的3.3% 。
there was just no future .	沒有未來 。
we needed to reduce the population growth rate .	我們需要降低人口成長率 。
so we said , " let's do it . "	所以我們說: 「 我們來做吧 。 」
the women said , " we agree . we'll use pills , but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills , " and we had very , very few doctors .	婦女說: 「 我們同意 , 我們會用避孕藥 , 但我們需要醫生來開藥 。 」 而且只有非常少數的醫生 。
we didn't take no as an answer ; we took no as a question .	我們沒有接納答案 ; 我們接納 「 不 」 是個問題 。
we went to the nurses and the midwives , who were also women , and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill .	我們去找同樣是女性的護士和助產士 , 對於如何使用藥丸做了很棒的工作 。
that was wonderful , but it covered only 20 percent of the country .	那很棒 , 但只覆蓋了全國20%的地區 。
what do we do for the other 80 percent leave them alone and say , " well , they're not medical personnel . "	我們給其他80%的人做的是讓他們獨自對他們說: 「 他們不是醫療人員 。 」
no , we decided to do a bit more .	不 , 我們決定要多做一點 。
so we went to the ordinary people that you saw .	所以我們去見了你看到的平凡人物 。
actually , below that yellow sign i wish they hadn't wiped that , because there was " cocacola " there .	其實 , 在那個黃色標誌下 , 我希望他們還沒毀於那個標誌 , 因為那裡有可口可樂 。
we were so much bigger than cocacola in those days .	當時我們比可口可樂還要大很多 。
and no difference , the people they chose were the people we chose .	沒差別 , 他們所選的人就是我們選的人 。
they were wellknown in the community , they knew that customers were always right , and they were terrific , and they practiced their family planning themselves .	他們在社區中很有名 , 他們知道顧客永遠是對的 , 且他們很棒 , 他們自己會做節育計畫 。
so they could supply pills and condoms throughout the country , in every village of the country .	所以他們可以在全國各個村落提供避孕藥和保險套 。
so there we are . we went to the people who were seen as the cause of the problem to be the solution .	所以我們去了 。 我們去了被視為問題的根源 , 去成為解決方案 。
wherever there were people and you can see boats with the women , selling things here's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives wherever you find people , you'll find contraceptives in thailand .	不論人們在哪裡 , 你都能看到船上有女性 , 賣的是水上市場 , 賣香蕉和螃蟹 , 還有避孕用品 , 不論你在泰國哪裡找到人 , 你都能在泰國找到避孕用品 。
and then we decided , why not get to religion because in the philippines , the catholic church was pretty strong , and thai people were buddhist .	然後我們決定 , 何不去宗教 , 因為在菲律賓 , 天主教會相當堅強 , 泰國人是佛教徒 。
we went to them and they said , " look , could you help us ? "	我們去找他們 , 他們說: 「 你能幫我們嗎 ? 」
i'm there the one in blue , not the yellow holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to sprinkle holy water on pills and condoms for the sanctity of the family .	我就在那裡 , 藍色的 , 不是黃色的 , 拿著一碗聖水 , 讓僧侶把聖水灑在藥丸和保險套上 , 為了家人的神聖 。
and this picture was sent throughout the country .	這張照片在全國各地傳送 。
so some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves .	所以有些村莊的僧侶也做了同樣的事 。
and the women were saying , " no wonder we have no sideeffects .	婦女說: 「 難怪我們沒有副作用 。
it's been blessed . "	得到了祝福 。 」
that was their perception .	那是他們的感知 。
and then we went to teachers .	然後我們找上了老師 。
you need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place .	你需要每個人去試著提供任何能讓人類成為更好的地方的地方 。
so we went to the teachers .	所以我們去找老師 。
over a quarter of a million were taught about family planning with a new alphabet a , b for birth , c for condom , i for iud , v for vasectomy .	有超過25萬人被教導用新的字母來教導家庭規劃--a , b是生育 , c是保險套 , i是子宮切除術 。
and then we had a snakes and ladders game , where you throw dice .	然後我們有一個蛇和梯子遊戲 , 你扔骰子去看 。
if you land on anything profamily planning , you move ahead .	如果你著陸在一個很有希望的計畫上 , 你就往前走 。
like , " mother takes the pill every night .	比如: 「 媽媽每天晚上都吃藥 。
very good , mother . move ahead .	很好 , 媽媽 , 往前走 。
uncle buys a condom . very good , uncle . move ahead .	叔叔買了保險套 。 很好 , 叔叔 。 往前走 。
uncle gets drunk , doesn't use condom . come back , start again . "	叔叔喝醉了 , 不用保險套 。 回來 , 再重新開始 。 」
again , education , class entertainment .	同樣地 , 教育和娛樂 。
and the kids were doing it in school too .	孩子們在學校也這樣做 。
we had relay races with condoms , we had children's condomblowing championship .	我們和保險套有接力賽 , 我們有兒童保險套的冠軍 。
and before long , the condom was know as the girl's best friend .	過不久 , 保險套就成了女孩最好的朋友 。
in thailand , for poor people , diamonds don't make it so the condom is the girl's best friend .	在泰國 , 對窮人而言 , 鑽石不是為了保險套而是女孩的好朋友 。
we introduced our first microcredit program in 1975 , and the women who organized it said , " we only want to lend to women who practice family planning .	我們在1975年推出了第一個小額貸款計畫 , 主辦這計畫的女性說: 「 我們只想借錢給那些實施家庭計畫的女性 。
if you're pregnant , take care of your pregnancy .	如果你懷孕了 , 照顧你的懷孕
if you're not pregnant , you can take a loan out from us . "	如果你沒有懷孕 , 你可以從我們這裡借出借款 。 」
and that was run by them .	那是由他們來管理的 。
and after 35/36 years , it's still going on .	在35/36年後 , 它仍然在進行中 。
it's a part of the village development bank ; it's not a real bank , but it's a fund microcredit .	這是鄉村發展銀行的一部分 , 不是真的銀行 , 而是一筆基金 。
and we didn't need a big organization to run it it was run by the villagers themselves .	我們不需要一個大型組織來運作 , 而是靠村民自己來運作 。
and you probably hardly see a thai man there , it's always women , women , women , women .	你幾乎看不到泰國男人在那裡 , 永遠都是女人、女人、女人 。
and then we thought we'd help america , because america's been helping everyone , whether they want help or not .	接著 , 我們認為我們會協助美國 , 因為美國一直在協助每個人 , 不論他們是否想要協助 。
and this is on the fourth of july .	這是7月4日 。
we decided to provide vasectomy to all men , but in particular , american men to the front of the queue , right up to the ambassador's residence during his [unclear] .	我們決定為所有男人提供輸精管切除術 , 特別是 , 排隊前面的美國人 , 排隊時排在大使館 。
and the hotel gave us the ballroom for it very appropriate room .	飯店給了我們一間交響間 , 非常適合的場所 。
and since it was near lunch time , they said , " all right , we'll give you some lunch .	他們說: 「 好 , 我們會給你一些午餐時間 。
of course , it must be american cola .	當然 , 它一定是美國的可樂 。
you get two brands , coke and pepsi .	有兩種品牌 , 可口可樂和百事可樂 。
and then the food is either hamburger or hotdog . "	食物要不是漢堡或熱狗 。 」
and i thought a hotdog will be more symbolic .	我以為熱狗比較有象徵意義 。
and here is this , then , young man called willy bohm who worked for the usaid .	接下來是這位年輕人名叫willybohm , 他為美國國際開發署工作 。
obviously , he's had his vasectomy because his hotdog is half eaten , and he was very happy .	很顯然 , 他已經做完手術了 , 因為他的熱狗已經半吃完了 , 他非常開心 。
it made a lot of news in america , and it angered some people also .	美國有很多新聞 , 也讓一些人很生氣 。
i said , " don't worry . come over and i'll do the whole lot of you . "	我說: 「 別擔心 。 過來 , 我會幫你們做很多事 。 」
in all this thing , from seven children to 1 . 5 children , population growth rate of 3 . 3 to 0 . 5 .	總的來說 , 從七個孩子到1.5個孩子 , 人口成長率為3.3到0.5 。
you could call it the cocacola approach if you like it was exactly the same thing .	你可以說它是可口可樂法 。 如果你喜歡它的話 。
i'm not sure whether cocacola followed us , or we followed cocacola , but we're good friends .	我不知道可口可樂是否會追隨我們 , 或者我們追隨可口可樂 , 但我們是好朋友 。
and so that's the case of everyone joining in .	這就是每個人加入的情況 。
we didn't have a strong government . we didn't have lots of doctors .	我們沒有強大的政府 , 我們沒有很多醫生 。
but it's everybody's job who can change attitude and behavior .	但每個人都該改變態度和行為 。
then aids came along and hit thailand , and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight aids .	接著 , 愛滋病襲擊泰國 , 我們不得不停止對抗愛滋病 ,
but unfortunately , the government was in denial , denial , denial .	但不幸的是 , 政府被否認、否認、否認 。
so our work wasn't affected .	所以我們的工作沒有被影響 。
so i thought , " well , if you can't go to the government , go to the military . "	所以我想: 「 嗯 , 如果你不能去政府 , 去軍隊 。 」
so i went to the military and asked to borrow 300 radio stations .	所以我去拜訪軍方 , 請求借用300個電台 。
they have more than the government , and they've got more guns than the government .	他們擁有的不只是政府 , 而且他們擁有的槍多於政府 。
so i asked them , could they help us in our fight against hiv .	所以我請求他們 , 能否幫我們一起對抗愛滋病毒 。
and after i gave them statistics , they said , " yes . okay . you can use all the radio stations , television stations . "	在我做完統計後 , 他們說: 「 是的 。 你可以使用所有的電台、電視站 。 」
and that's when we went onto the airwaves .	那時 , 我們上了 「 空波 」 。
and then we got a new prime minister soon after that .	不久之後 , 我們就得到了新的總理 。
and he said , " mechai , could you come and join ? "	他說: 「 mechai , 你能來加入嗎 ? 」
he asked me in because he liked my wife a lot .	他常問我 , 因為他很喜歡我老婆 。
so i said , " okay . "	我說: 「 好吧 。 」
he became the chairman of the national aids committee and increased the budget fiftyfold .	他成為了國立愛滋病委員會的主席 , 預算增加了五倍 。
every ministry , even judges , had to be involved in aids education everyone and we said the public , institutions , religious institutions , schools everyone was involved .	每個部長 , 甚至法官 , 都必須接受愛滋病的教育 。 每一個人 , 我們說 , 公共機構、宗教機構、學校--每個人都參與 。
and here , every media person had to be trained for hiv .	在這裡 , 每一個媒體人都需要接受愛滋病毒的培訓 。
and we gave every station half a minute extra for advertising to earn more money .	我們每家電台多做半分鐘的廣告 , 以賺更多錢 。
so they were happy with that .	所以他們對此很滿意 。
and then aids education in all schools , starting from university .	所有學校都有愛滋病的教育 , 從大學開始 。
and these are high school kids teaching high school kids .	這些是高中生教導高中生 。
and the best teachers were the girls , not the boys , and they were terrific .	最好的老師是女孩 , 不是男孩 , 他們超棒的 。
and these girls who go around teaching about safe sex and hiv were known as mother theresa .	這些到處宣導安全性愛和愛滋病毒的女孩們 , 被稱為 「 泰瑞莎修女 」 。
and then we went down one more step .	然後我們又走了一步 。
these are primary school kids third , fourth grade going to every household in the village , every household in the whole of thailand , giving aids information and a condom to every household , given by these young kids .	這些是小學三年級、四年級的孩子 , 拜訪了村子裡的每個家庭 , 全泰國的每個家庭 , 提供愛滋病的資訊和保險套 , 給這些孩子們提供 。
and no parents objected , because we were trying to save lives , and this was a lifesaver .	沒有父母反對 , 因為我們在試圖拯救生命 , 這是個救命員 。
and we said , " everyone needs to be involved . "	我們說: 「 每個人都需要參與 。 」
so you have the companies also realizing that sick staff don't work , and dead customers don't buy .	所以公司也意識到員工生病並不起作用 , 消費者不再買東西 。
so they all trained .	所以他們都受過訓練 。
and then we have this captain condom , with his harvard mba , going to schools and night spots .	我們有一位哈佛大學mba學位的保險套隊長 , 去學校和夜店 。
and they loved him . you need a symbol of something .	他們很愛他 。 你需要一個象徵 。
in every country , every program , you need a symbol , and this is probably the best thing he's ever done with his mba .	在每個國家 , 每個節目都需要一個符號 , 這可能是他用mba做的最好的事 。
and then we gave condoms out everywhere on the streets everywhere , everywhere .	然後我們在街上發放保險套 , 到處都是 。
in taxis , you get condoms .	在計程車上 , 你有保險套 。
and also , in traffic , the policemen give you condoms our " cops and rubbers " programs .	同時 , 在車陣中 , 警察會給你保險套──我們的 「 警察和施工 」 計畫 。
so , can you imagine new york policemen giving out condoms ?	所以 , 你能想像紐約警察發給保險套嗎 ?
of course i can . and they'd enjoy it immensely ; i see them standing around right now , everywhere .	我當然可以 。 他們會很享受 , 我看到他們就站在附近 , 到處都可以 。
imagine if they had condoms , giving out to all sorts of people .	想像他們有保險套 , 提供給各式各樣的人 。
and then , new change , we had hair bands , clothing and the condom for your mobile phone during the rainy season .	接著 , 新的變化出現了頭髮樂團、衣服還有保險套 , 在雨季時為你的手機打造的 。
and these were the condoms that we introduced .	這些是我們推出的安全套 。
one says , " weapon of mass protection . "	一個是 " 大規模防護性武器 "
we found you know somebody here was searching for the weapon of mass destruction , but we have found the weapon of mass protection: the condom .	我們發現這裡有人在尋找大規模毀滅性武器 , 但我們已經找到大規模防護性武器了:保險套 。
and then it says here , with the american flag , " don't leave home without it . "	接著 , 美國國旗寫著: 「 別因為它而離開家園 。 」
but i have some to give out afterward .	但是之後我還是有一些要放棄的 。
but let me warn you , these are thaisized , so be very careful .	但讓我先警告各位 , 這些都是泰國人的 , 請小心一點 。
and so you can see that condoms can do so many things .	你可以看到保險套可以做很多事 。
look at this i gave this to al gore and to bill senior also .	看看這個-我把這個給了algore和billsenior 。
stop global warming ; use condoms .	停止全球暖化 ; 使用保險套 。
and then this is the picture i mentioned to you the weapon of mass protection .	這張圖是我剛剛提到的大規模防護性武器 。
and let the next olympics save some lives .	下一次奧運會拯救一些生命 。
why just run around ?	為什麼要跑來跑去 ?
and then finally , in thailand we're buddhist , we don't have a god , so instead , we say , " in rubber we trust . "	最後 , 在泰國 , 我們是佛教徒 , 我們沒有神 , 所以相反地 , 我們說: 「 我們信任橡膠 。 」
so you can see that we added everything to our endeavor to make life better for the people .	大家可以看到 , 我們把所有東西都加在努力上 , 讓人們的生活變得更好 。
we had condoms in all the refrigerators in the hotels and the schools , because alcohol impairs judgment .	我們的保險套都裝在旅館和學校的冰箱裡 , 因為酒精會傷害判斷力 。
and then what happened ?	然後發生了什麼事 ?
after all this time , everybody joined in .	一直以來 , 每個人都加入了這個行列 。
according to the u . n . , new cases of hiv declined by 90 percent , and according to the world bank , 7 . 7 million lives were saved .	根據聯合國 , 愛滋病新感染案例減少了90% , 根據世界銀行的統計 , 770萬人的生命因而獲救 。
otherwise there wouldn't be many thais walking around today .	要不然 , 今天不會有這麼多泰國人走來走去 。
so it just showed you , you could do something about it .	它只是讓你看到 , 你可以為它做點什麼 。
90 percent of the funding came from thailand .	90%的資金來自泰國 。
there was political commitment , some financial commitment , and everybody joined in the fight .	有政治上的承諾 , 有財務上的承諾 , 每個人都加入這場戰役 。
so just don't leave it to the specialists and doctors and nurses .	所以千萬別只留給專家、醫生和護士 。
we all need to help .	我們都需要幫助 。
and then we decided to help people out of poverty , now that we got aids somewhat out of the way this time , not with government alone , but in cooperation with the business community .	接著我們決定要幫助窮人脫離貧窮 , 現在我們擺脫愛滋病的方式 , 這次不單是政府 , 而是和商業社群合作 。
because poor people are business people who lack business skills and access to credit .	因為窮人是商人 , 他們缺乏商業技能 , 無法取得信用 。
those are the things to be provided by the business community .	這些是商業界提供的物品 。
we're trying to turn them into barefoot entrepreneurs , little business people .	我們試著將這些人變成赤腳企業家 , 讓他們變成小生意人 。
the only way out of poverty is through business enterprise .	脫離貧窮的唯一方法就是透過企業 。
so , that was done .	所以 , 完成了 。
the money goes from the company into the village via treeplanting .	該公司的資金從村莊移植到村莊 。
it's not a free gift .	這不是免費的禮物 。
they plant the trees , and the money goes into their microcredit fund , which we call the village development bank .	他們種植樹木 , 錢就存入小額貸款基金中 , 我們稱之為村落開發銀行 。
everybody joins in , and they feel they own the bank , because they have brought the money in .	每個人都加入 , 他們覺得自己擁有銀行 , 因為他們把錢帶進來 。
and before you can borrow the money , you need to be trained .	在貸款之前 , 你需要接受訓練 。
and we believe if you want to help the poor , those who are living in poverty , access to credit must be a human right .	我們相信 , 如果你想幫助窮人 , 住在貧窮中的人 , 信用能力就必須要成為一種人權 。
access to credit must be a human right .	信用能力必須要是人權 。
otherwise they'll never get out of poverty .	否則他們永遠無法擺脫貧窮 。
and then before getting a loan , you must be trained .	在取得貸款之前 , 你必須要接受訓練 。
here's what we call a " barefoot mba , " teaching people how to do business so that , when they borrow money , they'll succeed with the business .	我們稱之為赤腳mba教導大家如何做生意這樣 , 當他們借錢時他們就會成功
these are some of the businesses: mushrooms , crabs , vegetables , trees , fruits , and this is very interesting nike ice cream and nike biscuits ; this is a village sponsored by nike .	這些是一些生意:蘑菇、螃蟹、蔬菜、蔬菜、水果、還有這個非常有趣的東西 , nike冰淇淋和nike餅乾 。 這是由nike贊助的村莊 。
they said , " they should stop making shoes and clothes .	他們說: 「 不要再做鞋子和衣服了 。
make these better , because we can afford them . "	把它做得更好 , 因為我們可以負擔得起 。 」
and then we have silk , thai silk .	泰國絲綢 。
now we're making scottish tartans , as you can see on the left , to sell to all people of scottish ancestors .	現在我們在做蘇格蘭人的目標 , 如左圖所示 , 賣給所有蘇格蘭人的祖先 。
so anyone sitting in and watching tv , get in touch with me .	所以 , 任何人只要坐在電視上 , 和我聯絡 。
and then this is our answer to starbucks in thailand " coffee and condoms . "	這是我們在泰國的星巴克: 「 咖啡和保險套 。 」
see , starbucks you awake , we keep you awake and alive .	星巴克能讓你清醒 , 我們讓你清醒又活著 。
can you imagine , at every starbucks that you can also get condoms ?	你能想像 , 在每一家星巴克裡你都能拿到保險套嗎 ?
you can order your condoms with your with your cappuccino .	你可以用你的保險套和卡布奇諾訂購 。
and then now , finally in education , we want to change the school as being underutilized into a place where it's a lifelong learning center for everyone .	最後 , 在教育上 , 我們想要把學校變成一個常被充分利用到一個地方 , 在那裡 , 它是人人一生的學習中心 。
we call this our schoolbased integrated rural development .	我們稱之為學校基礎的農村綜合發展 。
and it's a center , a focal point for economic and social development .	它是一個經濟和社會發展的中心 , 一個焦點 。
redo the school , make it serve the community needs .	把學校改造 , 讓它能滿足社區的需求 。
and here is a bamboo building all of them are bamboo .	這是竹子建築 , 全部都是竹子 。
this is a geodesic dome made of bamboo .	這是一個由竹子構成的地理圓頂 。
and i'm sure buckminster fuller would be very , very proud to see a bamboo geodesic dome .	我相信buckminsterfuller看到這個建築時會感到非常非常驕傲 。
and we use vegetables around the school ground , so they raise their own vegetables .	我們在校園裡使用蔬菜 , 所以他們可以自己種蔬菜 。
and then , finally , i firmly believe , if we want the mdgs to work the millennium development goals we need to add family planning to it .	最後 , 我堅信 , 如果我們希望mdgs能夠達成千禧年發展目標 , 我們就需要將節育計畫加入 。
of course , child mortality first and then family planning everyone needs family planning service it's underutilized .	當然 , 孩童死亡率是第一個 , 接著 , 節育計畫──每一個人都需要做節育計畫──這項服務還沒有被充分利用 。
so we have now found the weapon of mass protection .	所以我們現在找到了大規模防護性武器 。
and we also ask the next olympics to be involved in saving lives .	我們也要求下一屆的奧運加入拯救生命 。
and then , finally , that is our network .	最後 , 這是我們的網路 。
and these are our thai tulips .	這些是我們的泰國鬱金香 。
thank you very much indeed .	非常感謝各位 。
your smartphone may feel like a friend but a true friend would give you a smile once in a while . at ted2013 , keller rinaudo demos romo , the smartphonepowered mini robot who can motor along with you on a walk , slide you a cup of coffee across the table , and react to you with programmable expressions .	你的智慧型手機可能會像個朋友 , 但真正的朋友會給你一次笑容 。 在2013年 , 在ted2013年 , 凱勒•里納多•羅摩 , 他是智慧型手機的迷你 , 他可以和你一起散步行走 , 滑動地通過桌子喝咖啡 , 並對你做出反應 , 做出可編程表情 。
keller rinaudo: a mini robot powered by your phone	kellerrinaudo:一個迷你機器人是由你的手機所驅動 。
so just by a show of hands , how many of you all have a robot at home ?	舉個手 , 你們當中有多少人家裡有機器人 ?
not very many of you .	不太多人 。
okay . and actually of those hands , if you don't include roomba how many of you have a robot at home ?	好的 。 請舉手 , 如果你不包含掃描室-在家中有多少人有機器人 ?
that's the problem that we're trying to solve at romotive that i and the other 20 nerds at romotive are obsessed with solving .	這是我們在romotive努力解決的問題romotive我和其他20位怪胎都著迷於解決 。
so we really want to build a robot that anyone can use , whether you're eight or 80 .	所以我們真的想要打造一個 , 任何人都可以用的機器人 , 不論你是八歲或八十歲 。
and as it turns out , that's a really hard problem , because you have to build a small , portable robot that's not only really affordable , but it has to be something that people actually want to take home and have around their kids .	事實證明 , 這是個非常困難的問題 , 因為你要打造一個小型、可攜式的機器人 , 它不僅要能負擔得起 , 它也要能成為一個家家戶都想要帶著孩子到家裡去的機器人 。
this robot can't be creepy or uncanny .	這種機器人並不會讓人毛骨悚然或不討喜 。
he should be friendly and cute .	他應該要友善又可愛 。
romo's a robot that uses a device you already know and love your iphone as his brain .	romo這個機器人 , 使用一個你已經知道且喜愛你的iphone , 做為他的大腦 。
and by leveraging the power of the iphone's processor , we can create a robot that is wifi enabled and computer visioncapable for 150 bucks , which is about one percent of what these kinds of robots have cost in the past .	藉由iphone處理器的力量我們可以創造一個可以wi-fi無線網路運作的機器人同時擁有電腦視覺能力的150塊美金這大約是過去那種機器人所花費的百分之一
when romo wakes up , he's in creature mode .	當romo被喚醒時 , 他會進入生物狀態 。
so he's actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face .	所以他其實是在裝置上使用攝影機來追蹤我的臉 。
if i duck down , he'll follow me .	如果我蹲下 , 他會跟著我 。
he's wary , so he'll keep his eyes on me .	牠很小心 , 所以牠會一直盯著我 。
if i come over here , he'll turn to follow me .	如果我走到這裡 , 他會轉向跟著我 。
if i come over here he's smart .	如果我過來這裡 , 他很聰明 。
and if i get too close to him , he gets scared just like any other creature .	如果我太靠近他 , 他就會和任何其他生物一樣害怕 。
so in a lot of ways , romo is like a pet that has a mind of his own .	所以在很多方面 , romo像是一隻有自己想法的寵物 。
thanks , little guy .	謝謝 , 小傢伙 。
and if i want to explore the world uhoh , romo's tired if i want to explore the world with romo , i can actually connect him from any other ios device .	如果我想要探索世界--呃-哦 , romo累了--如果我想要和romo一起探索世界 , 我可以把他和任何ios的設備做連結 。
so here's the ipad .	這是ipad 。
and romo will actually stream video to this device .	romo會把視訊串流到這個裝置上 。
so i can see everything that romo sees , and i get a robot'seyeview of the world .	所以我可以看見romo看到的一切 , 我可以從機器人的視角來看世界 。
now this is a free app on the app store , so if any of you guys had this app on your phones , we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together .	這在appstore是一個免費的應用程式 , 所以如果你們有人在手機上安裝了這個應用程式 , 我們現在就可以共同控制這個機器人 , 一起玩遊戲 。
so i'll show you really quickly , romo actually he's streaming video , so you can see me and the entire ted audience .	我會很快地給各位看romo , 事實上他在串流影片 , 所以你可以看到我和全部ted觀眾 。
if i get in front of romo here .	如果我在這裡拿到romo 。
and if i want to control him , i can just drive .	如果我想要控制他 , 我可以開車 。
so i can drive him around , and i can take pictures of you .	我可以帶他到處走 , 我可以拍你的照片 。
i've always wanted a picture of a 1 , 500person ted audience .	我一直都想要有張一千五百個ted觀眾的照片 。
so i'll snap a picture .	所以我拍了一張照片 。
and in the same way that you scroll through content on an ipad , i can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device .	就像你可以在ipad上滑動頁面一樣 , 我可以調整儀器上的攝影機角度 。
so there are all of you through romo's eyes .	透過romo的眼睛 , 你們全部都在那裡 。
and finally , because romo is an extension of me , i can express myself through his emotions .	最後 , 因為romo是我的延伸 , 我可以透過他的情緒來表達我自己 。
so i can go in and i can say let's make romo excited .	所以我可以進去 , 說咱們來讓romo興奮一下 。
but the most important thing about romo is that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive .	但關於romo最重要的事是 , 我們想要創造完全直覺的事物 。
you do not have to teach someone how to drive romo .	你不需要教別人如何駕駛romo 。
in fact , who would like to drive a robot ?	事實上 , 有誰想要駕駛機器人 ?
thank you , scott .	謝謝你 , 史考特
and even cooler , you actually don't have to be in the same geographic location as the robot to control him .	更酷的是 , 你其實不需要和機器人在同一個地理位置來控制它 。
so he actually streams twoway audio and video between any two smart devices .	所以他其實是在用任何兩個智慧型設備之間的雙向音訊和視訊串流 。
so you can log in through the browser , and it's kind of like skype on wheels .	你可以從瀏覽器登入 , 它有點像輪子上的skype 。
so we were talking before about telepresence , and this is a really cool example .	我們先前談到遠端臨場 , 這是一個很酷的例子 。
you can imagine an eightyearold girl , for example , who has an iphone , and her mom buys her a robot .	舉例來說 , 你可以想像一個八歲大的女孩 , 她有一支iphone , 而她媽媽買了一個機器人 。
that girl can take her iphone , put it on the robot , send an email to grandma , who lives on the other side of the country .	那個女孩可以拿著她的iphone , 放在機器人上 , 寄一封電子郵件給住在國家另一端的奶奶們 。
grandma can log into that robot and play hideandgoseek with her granddaughter for fifteen minutes every single night , when otherwise she might only be able to get to see her granddaughter once or twice a year .	奶奶可以登入那個機器人 , 和她的孫女一起玩捉迷藏 。 每晚十五分鐘 , 否則她一年可能只能見到她孫女一兩次 。
so those are a couple of the really cool things that romo can do today .	所以這些是romo今天能做的一些很酷的事 。
but i just want to finish by talking about something that we're working on in the future .	但最後我想談談我們未來要努力的方向 。
this is actually something that one of our engineers , dom , built in a weekend .	這實際上是我們的一個工程師 , dom , 在一個週末完成的 。
it's built on top of a google open framework called blockly .	它是建立在google一個叫做blockly的開放框架上的 。
this allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic code and create any behavior for this robot you want .	這可以讓你拖拉這些區塊的語義編碼 , 為這個機器人創造任何你想要的行為 。
you do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for romo .	你不需要知道如何寫程式 , 才能創造出romo的行為 。
and you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser , which is what you see romo doing on the left .	實際上 , 你可以在瀏覽器中看到romo在左邊的行為 。
and then if you have something you like , you can download it onto your robot and execute it in real life , run the program in real life .	如果你有你喜歡的東西 , 你可以下載它到你的機器人 , 並在現實生活中執行它 , 即時執行這個程式 。
and then if you have something you're proud of , you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world .	如果你能得到你自豪的事物 , 你就能和世界上所有擁有機器人的人分享它 。
so all of these wifi–enabled robots actually learn from each other .	所有這些wi-fi無線網路的機器人 , 都能互相學習 。
the reason we're so focused on building robots that everyone can train is that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal .	我們之所以著重在建造一個每個人都可以訓練的機器人 , 是因為我們認為在個人機器人中 , 最能引人注目的使用方式 , 是個人的 。
they change from person to person .	它們會從人變成人 。
so we think that if you're going to have a robot in your home , that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination .	所以 , 我們認為 , 如果你要在家裡裝一個機器人 , 那機器人應該是你想像力的表現 。
so i wish that i could tell you what the future of personal robotics looks like .	我希望我能告訴你個人機器人的未來是什麼樣子 。
to be honest , i have no idea .	老實說 , 我不知道 。
but what we do know is that it isn't 10 years or 10 billion dollars or a large humanoid robot away .	但我們知道的是 , 這不是十年或一百億美金 , 或一個大型的類人形機器人 。
the future of personal robotics is happening today , and it's going to depend on small , agile robots like romo and the creativity of people like yourselves .	個人機器人的未來正在發生 , 它取決於小型、敏捷的機器人 , 如romo , 以及像你們一樣的人的創造力 。
so we can't wait to get you all robots , and we can't wait to see what you build .	我們等不及把機器人送到你們全部 , 我們等不及要看看你們建造了什麼 。
author and activist isabel allende discusses women , creativity , the definition of feminism and , of course , passion in this talk .	作家和活動家伊莎貝•阿言德討論了女性、創意、女權主義的定義 , 當然 , 還有這場演說的熱情 。
entertainment , global issues , love , parenting , storytelling , women , world cultures	娛樂、全球議題、愛、為人父母、講故事、女人、世界文化...
isabel allende tells tales of passion	伊莎貝爾•阿言德講述充滿熱情的故事 。
thank you so much . it's really scary to be here among the smartest of the smart .	非常謝謝你 。 來到這裡真的是最聰明的一員 。
i'm here to tell you a few tales of passion .	我來這裡是要告訴各位一些關於熱情的故事 。
there's a jewish saying that i love .	我很愛這句猶太諺語 。
what is truer than truth ? answer: the story .	比事實更真誠的是什麼 ? 答案:故事 。
i'm a storyteller . i want to convey something that is truer than truth about our common humanity .	我是說故事的人 。 我想傳達一些比事實更真實的東西 , 和我們共同的人性相比 。
all stories interest me , and some haunt me until i end up writing them .	我對所有故事都感興趣 , 有些甚至令我不安 , 直到我最後寫完它們 。
certain themes keep coming up: justice , loyalty , violence , death , political and social issues , freedom .	有些主題不斷出現正義、忠誠、暴力、死亡、政治和社會議題、自由 。
i'm aware of the mystery around us , so i write about coincidences , premonitions , emotions , dreams , the power of nature , magic .	我知道我們身邊的謎題 , 所以我寫下巧合、預兆、情緒、夢想、大自然的力量、魔法 。
in the last 20 years i have published a few books , but i have lived in anonymity until february of 2006 , when i carried the olympic flag in the winter olympics in italy .	在過去的20年裡 , 我出版了幾本書 , 但我一直活在匿名中 , 直到2006年2月 , 當我帶著在義大利冬季奧運的奧運旗幟時 。
that made me a celebrity . now people recognize me in macy's , and my grandchildren think that i'm cool .	這讓我成為了名人 。 現在大家在macy's中發現我 , 我的孫子認為我很酷 。
allow me to tell you about my four minutes of fame .	讓我告訴你我四分鐘的名氣 。
one of the organizers of the olympic ceremony , of the opening ceremony , called me and said that i had been selected to be one of the flagbearers .	一名籌辦奧運開幕式的籌辦人打電話通知我被選為旗手之一
i replied that surely this was a case of mistaken identity because i'm as far as you can get from being an athlete .	我回答 , 這是個錯誤認同的案例因為我是從運動員的最遠處取得的
actually , i wasn't even sure that i could go around the stadium without a walker .	事實上 , 我甚至不知道在不用助行器的情況下 , 我可以走動體育場 。
i was told that this was no laughing matter .	我被告知這不是開玩笑的事 。
this would be the first time that only women would carry the olympic flag .	這是第一次 , 只有女性會帶著奧運國旗 。
five women , representing five continents , and three olympic gold medal winners .	五位女性代表五大洲 , 三位奧運金牌得主 。
my first question was , naturally , what was i going to wear ?	很自然地 , 我的第一個問題是:我要穿什麼 ?
a uniform , she said , and asked for my measurements .	她說穿制服 , 要求我的測量指標 。
i had a vision of myself in a fluffy anorak , looking like the michelin man .	我有個景象 , 彷彿自己處在富裕的主流之中 , 看起來像米其林的老人 。
by the middle of february , i found myself in turin , where enthusiastic crowds cheered when any of the 80 olympic teams was in the street .	到了二月中期 , 我到了杜林 , 熱情的群眾歡呼時 , 八十個奧運隊都在街上 。
those athletes had sacrificed everything to compete in the games .	那些運動員為了競爭而犧牲了一切 。
they all deserved to win , but there's the element of luck .	他們都值得勝利 , 但還是要靠點運氣 。
a speck of snow , an inch of ice , the force of the wind , can determine the result of a race or a game .	雪上的小缺口 , 冰層的一英吋 , 風的力量 , 可以決定比賽的結果 。
however , what matters most more than training or luck is the heart .	然而 , 訓練或運氣之外 , 最重要的是心 。
only a fearless and determined heart will get the gold medal .	只有無懼且堅定的心才能得到金牌 。
it is all about passion .	這一切都與熱情有關 。
the streets of turin were covered with red posters announcing the slogan of the olympics .	杜林街上滿是紅色海報 , 宣佈奧運的標語 。
passion lives here . isn't it always true ?	熱情就在這裡 , 不是一直都是真的嗎 ?
heart is what drives us and determines our fate .	心 , 驅使我們並決定我們的命運 。
that is what i need for my characters in my books: a passionate heart .	這就是我在書中角色所需要的:熱情的心 。
i need mavericks , dissidents , adventurers , outsiders and rebels , who ask questions , bend the rules and take risks .	我需要突破、異議、冒險精神、外來者、叛軍 , 他們提出問題、修改規則 , 和冒險 。
people like all of you in this room .	就像在座各位
nice people with common sense do not make interesting characters .	有常識的好人不會畫有趣的角色 。
they only make good former spouses .	他們只會交配好的前夫 。
in the green room of the stadium , i met the other flag bearers: three athletes , and the actresses susan sarandon and sophia loren .	在體育場的綠色房間裡 , 我見到其他旗手三位運動員 , 女演員蘇珊莎蘭登和蘇菲雅羅蘭 。
also , two women with passionate hearts: wangari maathai , the nobel prizewinner from kenya who has planted 30 million trees . and by doing so , she has changed the soil , the weather , in some places in africa , and of course the economic conditions in many villages .	還有兩位心中充滿熱情的女人:來自肯亞的諾貝爾獎得主 , 她種了三千萬棵樹 。 透過這麼做 , 她改變了土壤、氣候 , 在非洲的某些地方 , 當然也改變了許多村落的經濟狀況 。
and somaly mam , a cambodian activist who fights passionately against child prostitution .	柬埔寨行動主義者索瑪利•瑪曼 , 極力反抗兒童賣淫 。
when she was 14 years old , her grandfather sold her to a brothel .	當她十四歲時 , 她的祖父將她賣到妓院 。
she told us of little girls raped by men who believe that having sex with a very young virgin will cure them from aids .	她告訴我們 , 小女孩被男人強暴 , 她們相信和非常年輕的處女做愛 , 會治癒愛滋病 。
and of brothels where children are forced to receive five , 15 clients per day , and if they rebel , they are tortured with electricity .	還有那些逼孩子們每天被迫接收五、十五個客戶的妓院 , 如果他們反抗 , 他們會被電擊折磨 。
in the green room i received my uniform .	在綠色房間裡 , 我拿到制服 。
it was not the kind of outfit that i normally wear , but it was far from the michelin man suit that i had anticipated . not bad , really .	這不是我平常穿的服裝 , 但那不是米其林穿的服裝 , 其實也不是我預期的 , 不是很差 。
i looked like a refrigerator .	我看起來像個冰箱 。
but so did most of the flagbearers , except sophia loren , the universal symbol of beauty and passion .	但也有大部分的旗幟 , 除了蘇菲雅羅蘭 , 普遍的美麗與熱情的象徵 。
sophia is over 70 and she looks great .	蘇菲雅七十多歲 , 她看起來很棒 。
she's sexy , slim and tall , with a deep tan .	她很性感、很瘦、很高 , 帶著很深的棕色 。
now , how can you have a deep tan and have no wrinkles ?	那麼 , 你要如何有一根深色的皮膚 , 沒有皺紋 ?
when asked in a tv interview , " how could she look so good ? "	當電視記者問: 「 她怎麼能看起來這麼棒 ? 」
she replied , " posture . my back is always straight , and i don't make old people's noises . "	她回答: 「 保持姿勢 。 我總是挺直的 , 我不會製造老人的噪音 。 」
so , there you have some free advice from one of the most beautiful women on earth .	所以 , 這裡你有一些免費的建議來自地球上最美麗的女人之一 。
no grunting , no coughing , no wheezing , no talking to yourselves , no farting .	不屈不撓、不咳嗽、不呼吸、不跟自己說話、不放屁 。
well , she didn't say that exactly .	嗯 , 她並沒有說真的 。
at some point around midnight , we were summoned to the wings of the stadium , and the loudspeakers announced the olympic flag , and the music started by the way , the same music that starts here , the aida march .	在午夜時分 , 我們被叫到體育場的機翼 , 擴音器負責宣佈奧運的旗幟 , 首先音樂是從這裡開始的 , 艾達遊行 。
sophia loren was right in front of me she's a foot taller than i am , not counting the poofy hair .	蘇菲雅羅蘭就在我面前 , 她比我高一呎 , 數不清頭髮 。
she walked elegantly , like a giraffe on the african savannah , holding the flag on her shoulder . i jogged behind on my tiptoes holding the flag on my extended arm , so that my head was actually under the damn flag .	她優雅地走著 , 就像非洲草原上的長頸鹿將旗子舉在肩上 。 我在後面慢跑跑 , 手伸上旗子 , 頭其實在那該死的旗子下 。
all the cameras were , of course , on sophia .	所有的攝影機 , 當然都是蘇菲雅 。
that was fortunate for me , because in most press photos i appear too , although often between sophia's legs .	這對我來說是幸運的 , 因為在大部分媒體照片中我看起來也一樣 , 儘管常常在蘇菲雅的雙腿之間 。
a place where most men would love to be .	一個大部分男人都想待的地方 。
the best four minutes of my entire life were those in the olympic stadium .	我一生中最棒的四分鐘是奧林匹克體育館員 。
my husband is offended when i say this although i have explained to him that what we do in private usually takes less than four minutes so he shouldn't take it personally .	我老公很冒犯我這麼說 , 雖然我跟他解釋說 , 我們私下需要花不到四分鐘 , 所以他不該把我當做自己 。
i have all the press clippings of those four magnificent minutes , because i don't want to forget them when old age destroys my brain cells .	我有這四分鐘的所有剪報 , 因為我不想在老年時將它們忘記 。
i want to carry in my heart forever the key word of the olympics passion .	我想要永遠記住奧運的關鍵字 。
so here's a tale of passion .	以下是一個充滿熱情的故事 。
the year is 1998 , the place is a prison camp for tutsi refugees in congo .	時間是1998年 , 剛果的圖西族難民營是座監獄 。
by the way , 80 percent of all refugees and displaced people in the world are women and girls .	順道一提 , 世界上80%的難民和流離失所者都是女人和女孩 。
we can call this place in congo a death camp , because those who are not killed will die of disease or starvation .	我們可以把這個地方命名為剛果的死亡營 , 因為沒有被殺的人 , 會死於疾病或飢餓 。
the protagonists of this story are a young woman , rose mapendo , and her children .	故事的主角是一位年輕女性蘿絲•瑪班多和她的孩子
she's pregnant and a widow .	她是懷孕的寡婦 。
soldiers have forced her to watch as her husband was tortured and killed .	士兵迫使她眼睜睜看著她的丈夫被虐待和殺害 。
somehow she manages to keep her seven children alive , and a few months later , she gives birth to premature twins .	不知何故 , 她讓她七個孩子活了下來 , 幾個月後 , 她生出早產的雙胞胎 。
two tiny little boys .	兩個小男孩 。
she cuts the umbilical cord with a stick , and ties it with her own hair .	她用棍子剪斷臍帶然後用頭髮綁起來
she names the twins after the camp's commanders to gain their favor , and feeds them with black tea because her milk cannot sustain them .	她用營地指揮官的名字命名雙胞胎 , 以取得他們的喜好 , 並用黑色茶餵他們 , 因為她的牛奶無法維持下去 。
when the soldiers burst in her cell to rape her oldest daughter , she grabs hold of her and refuses to let go , even when they hold a gun to her head .	當軍人闖進她的牢房 , 強暴她大女兒時 , 她不想放手 , 即使他們手上拿著槍 ,
somehow , the family survives for 16 months , and then , by extraordinary luck , and the passionate heart of a young american man , sasha chanoff , who manages to put her in a u . s . rescue plane , rose mapendo and her nine children end up in phoenix , arizona , where they're now living and thriving .	不知怎麼的 , 這個家庭存活了十六個月然後 , 靠著不凡的運氣和熱情的美國人沙夏•查諾夫他成功將她送上美國救援機 , 蘿絲•瑪班多和九個孩子最後到了亞利桑那州鳳凰城在那裡生活、茁壯成長
mapendo , in swahili , means great love .	瑪班多 , 在斯瓦希里 , 意味著偉大的愛 。
the protagonists of my books are strong and passionate women like rose mapendo .	我書中的主角是堅強且充滿熱情的女性 , 像是蘿絲•瑪班多 。
i don't make them up . there's no need for that .	我不編造它們 , 不需要它們 。
i look around and i see them everywhere .	我環顧四周 , 到處都能看見 。
i have worked with women and for women all my life .	我一生都在為女性、為女性工作 。
i know them well .	我對他們很熟悉 。
i was born in ancient times , at the end of the world , in a patriarchal catholic and conservative family .	我出生在很久以前 , 在很遠的時代 , 在一個父系天主教和保守家庭中 。
no wonder that by age five i was a raging feminist although the term had not reached chile yet , so nobody knew what the heck was wrong with me .	難怪我五歲就已經是個憤怒的女權主義者 , 雖然還沒達到智利 , 所以沒人知道我到底是怎麼回事 。
i would soon find out that there was a high price to pay for my freedom , and for questioning the patriarchy .	我很快就發現 , 為了讓我的自由付出很高的代價 , 以及質疑父權制度 。
but i was happy to pay it , because for every blow that i received , i was able to deliver two .	但是我很高興能付出代價 , 因為每當我被擊中的一擊 , 我就能夠分出兩次 。
once , when my daughter paula was in her twenties , she said to me that feminism was dated , that i should move on .	有一次 , 當我的女兒寶拉二十多歲時 , 她告訴我女權運動過時了 , 我應該繼續走下去 。
we had a memorable fight . feminism is dated ?	我們打了一場記住的仗 。 女權主義是約會嗎 ?
yes , for privileged women like my daughter and all of us here today , but not for most of our sisters in the rest of the world who are still forced into premature marriage , prostitution , forced labor they have children that they don't want or they cannot feed .	是的 , 對於我女兒和在座各位一樣有特權的女性 , 但對其他國家的姊妹來說 , 她們仍然被迫提早婚姻、妓女、強迫勞工 , 她們的孩子不想要或無法餵飽她們 。
they have no control over their bodies or their lives .	他們無法掌控自己的身體或生活 。
they have no education and no freedom .	他們沒有教育 , 沒有自由 。
they are raped , beaten up and sometimes killed with impunity .	他們被強暴、毆打 , 有時因受罰被殺 。
for most western young women of today , being called a feminist is an insult .	對於現今大部分西方女性來說 , 被稱為女性主義者是一種侮辱 。
feminism has never been sexy , but let me assure you that it never stopped me from flirting , and i have seldom suffered from lack of men .	女權主義從來就不性感 , 但讓我跟各位保證 , 它從來沒有阻止我調情 , 我很少有缺乏男人的苦惱 。
feminism is not dead , by no means .	女權已經死去 , 絕非死 。
it has evolved . if you don't like the term , change it , for goddess' sake .	它已進化 。 如果你不喜歡這個名詞 , 改變它 , 為了女神的天啊 。
call it aphrodite , or venus , or bimbo , or whatever you want ; the name doesn't matter , as long as we understand what it is about , and we support it .	稱它為 「 愛芙洛蒂 」 、 「 維納斯 」 、 「 花香 」 , 隨便你叫什麼名字 「 不重要 」 , 只要我們了解它是什麼 , 我們就支持它 。
so here's another tale of passion , and this is a sad one .	這是另一個關於熱情的故事 , 一個悲傷的故事 。
the place is a small women's clinic in a village in bangladesh .	在孟加拉的一個村莊裡 , 一間婦女診所
the year is 2005 .	時間是2005年 。
jenny is a young american dental hygienist who has gone to the clinic as a volunteer during her threeweek vacation .	珍妮是一位年輕的美國牙醫 , 在她三週假期間 , 她去診所當義工 。
she's prepared to clean teeth , but when she gets there , she finds out that there are no doctors , no dentists , and the clinic is just a hut full of flies .	她準備好要乾淨的牙齒 , 但當她到那裡時 , 她發現沒有醫生、沒有牙醫 , 診所就只是一間蒼蠅屋子 。
outside , there is a line of women who have waited several hours to be treated .	在外面 , 有一排女子等了幾個小時才被治療 。
the first patient is in excruciating pain because she has several rotten molars .	第一位病人痛苦難當 , 因為她有數個腐敗的明星 。
jenny realizes that the only solution is to pull out the bad teeth .	珍妮明白唯一的解決方案就是拔掉牙齒不好 。
she's not licensed for that ; she has never done it .	她沒有執照 , 也從來沒有做過 。
she risks a lot and she's terrified .	她很常冒險 , 她很害怕 。
she doesn't even have the proper instruments , but fortunately she has brought some novocaine .	她甚至沒有合適的樂器 , 但幸運的是 , 她帶來了一些非vocaine 。
jenny has a brave and passionate heart .	珍妮有顆勇敢且熱情的心 。
she murmurs a prayer and she goes ahead with the operation .	她在一旁祈禱 , 然後開始行動 。
at the end , the relieved patient kisses her hands .	最後 , 病患鬆了口氣 。
that day the hygienist pulls out many more teeth .	那天 , 衛生學家抽出更多的牙齒 。
the next morning , when she comes again to the socalled clinic , her first patient is waiting for her with her husband .	隔天早上 , 當她再次來到所謂的診所時 , 她的第一位病人和她的丈夫在等她 。
the woman's face looks like a watermelon .	這位女士的臉看起來像西瓜 。
it is so swollen that you can't even see the eyes .	腫到看不見眼睛
the husband , furious , threatens to kill the american .	丈夫氣極了 , 威脅要殺了美國人 。
jenny is horrified at what she has done , but then the translator explains that the patient's condition has nothing to do with the operation .	珍妮被自己造成的後果嚇壞了 , 但翻譯解釋說病人的狀況和手術沒有關係 。
the day before , her husband beat her up because she was not home in time to prepare dinner for him .	前一天 , 她丈夫因為在家準備晚餐不足而毆打她 。
millions of women live like this today .	今天有數百萬的女性過著這樣的生活 。
they are the poorest of the poor .	他們是最貧窮的人 。
although women do twothirds of the world's labor , they own less than one percent of the world's assets .	雖然女性分擔世界上三分之二的勞動力 , 但她們擁有的卻不到世界資產的百分之一 。
they are paid less than men for the same work if they're paid at all , and they remain vulnerable because they have no economic independence , and they are constantly threatened by exploitation , violence and abuse .	他們的薪水比男性低 , 如果他們有薪水 , 他們仍然是脆弱的 , 因為他們沒有經濟獨立 , 而且他們經常受到剝削、暴力和虐待的威脅 。
it is a fact that giving women education , work , the ability to control their own income , inherit and own property , benefits the society .	事實上 , 給予婦女教育、工作、控制自己收入的能力、繼承和財產的能力 , 讓社會受益 。
if a woman is empowered , her children and her family will be better off .	如果女人有力量 , 她的孩子和她的家人會變得更好 。
if families prosper , the village prospers , and eventually so does the whole country .	如果家屬能繁榮 , 村落能繁榮 , 最終整個國家也是如此 。
wangari maathai goes to a village in kenya .	旺加里•馬塔伊到肯亞的一個村落 。
she talks with the women and explains that the land is barren because they have cut and sold the trees .	她和女人談 , 解釋說土地很貧瘠 , 因為他們砍樹並賣掉了 。
she gets the women to plant new trees and water them , drop by drop .	她讓婦女們種植新樹並澆水 , 一滴接著一滴 。
in a matter of five or six years , they have a forest , the soil is enriched , and the village is saved .	在五六年或六年內 , 森林充斥著土壤 , 村落被拯救了 。
the poorest and most backward societies are always those that put women down .	最貧窮和最落後的社會往往就是那些壓抑女性的社會 。
yet this obvious truth is ignored by governments and also by philanthropy .	但這個顯而易見的事實卻被政府以及慈善機構忽略 。
for every dollar given to a women's program , 20 dollars are given to men's programs .	女性的專案每得到1美元 , 男性的專案就有20美元 。
women are 51 percent of humankind .	女性佔人類人口的51% 。
empowering them will change everything more than technology and design and entertainment .	給予他們能力 , 不僅是科技、設計和娛樂 , 更能改變一切 。
i can promise you that women working together linked , informed and educated can bring peace and prosperity to this forsaken planet .	我可以保證 , 女性可以一起合作連結、有知識、受教育 , 能為這個可憐的星球帶來和平與繁榮 。
in any war today , most of the casualties are civilians , mainly women and children . they are collateral damage .	在今天的任何一場戰爭中 , 許多傷亡者是平民 , 主要是婦女和兒童 。 他們是附屬傷害 。
men run the world , and look at the mess we have .	男人掌控世界 , 看看我們有什麼麻煩 。
what kind of world do we want ?	我們想要什麼樣的世界 ?
this is a fundamental question that most of us are asking .	這是大部分人所問的根本問題 。
does it make sense to participate in the existing world order ?	參與現有的世界秩序是合理的嗎 ?
we want a world where life is preserved and the quality of life is enriched for everybody , not only for the privileged .	我們要一個保存生命的世界一個生活品質才會讓所有人豐富而不僅僅是特權
in january i saw an exhibit of fernando botero's paintings at the uc berkeley library .	一月份時 , 我看到費南多•巴特羅在加州大學伯克萊圖書館的畫作展出 。
no museum or gallery in the united states , except for the new york gallery that carries botero's work , has dared to show the paintings because the theme is the abu ghraib prison .	在美國 , 沒有博物館或畫廊只有紐約畫廊有波特羅的作品 , 才敢展示這幅畫因為主題是阿布格萊布監獄
they are huge paintings of torture and abuse of power , in the voluminous botero style .	它們是巨大的畫作 , 充滿了酷刑和權力濫用 , 以大量的巴特羅風格呈現 。
i have not been able to get those images out of my mind or my heart .	我無法將那些影像從我的腦海或心中得到出來 。
what i fear most is power with impunity .	我最擔心的是無罪的權力 。
i fear abuse of power , and the power to abuse .	我害怕濫用權力 , 以及濫用權力 。
in our species , the alpha males define reality , and force the rest of the pack to accept that reality and follow the rules .	在我們這個族群中 , 雄性領袖定義現實 , 強迫其他成員接受現實並遵守規則 。
the rules change all the time , but they always benefit them , and in this case , the trickledown effect , which does not work in economics , works perfectly .	規則隨時在改變 , 但總是受惠 , 這種情況下 , 下滲經濟失敗的效果 , 在經濟學上是行不通的 。
abuse trickles down from the top of the ladder to the bottom .	從上到下 , 一層層的欺壓濫用 。
women and children , especially the poor , are at the bottom .	女人和小孩 , 尤其是窮人 , 都在最底層 。
even the most destitute of men have someone they can abuse a woman or a child .	即使是最陰鬱的男人也有人可以虐待女人或孩子 。
i'm fed up with the power that a few exert over the many through gender , income , race , and class .	我受夠了少數人操縱多數人的權力 , 透過性別、收入、種族和階級 。
i think that the time is ripe to make fundamental changes in our civilization .	我想該是時候成熟了 , 徹底地改變我們的文明 。
but for real change , we need feminine energy in the management of the world .	但若要真正改變 , 我們需要讓女性的能量在世界的管理中成為可能 。
we need a critical number of women in positions of power , and we need to nurture the feminine energy in men .	我們需要讓女性掌握權力我們需要培養男性心中的女性能量
i'm talking about men with young minds , of course .	當然 , 我指的是有年輕心智的男人 。
old guys are hopeless ; we have to wait for them to die off .	老傢伙是絕望的 ; 我們得等他們死光 。
yes , i would love to have sophia loren's long legs and legendary breasts .	是的 , 我想要有蘇菲雅羅蘭的長腿和著名的胸部 。
but given a choice , i would rather have the warrior hearts of wangari maathai , somaly mam , jenny and rose mapendo .	但 , 若能選擇 , 我寧願有勇敢的心 , 像旺加里•瑪太、索瑪利•曼、珍妮 , 和蘿絲•瑪班多 。
i want to make this world good .	我希望這個世界變得更好 。
not better , but to make it good .	不是更好 , 而是讓它變好 。
why not ? it is possible . look around in this room all this knowledge , energy , talent and technology .	為什麼不 ? 這是有可能的 。 看看在座的四周 , 所有的知識、精力、才華和技術 。
let's get off our fannies , roll up our sleeves and get to work , passionately , in creating an almost perfect world .	讓我們擺脫冷氣 , 捲起袖子 , 激情地工作 , 創造一個近乎完美的世界 。
every day , in a city the size of london , 30 million meals are served . but where does all the food come from ? architect carolyn steel discusses the daily miracle of feeding a city , and shows how ancient food routes shaped the modern world .	每天 , 在倫敦這麼大的城市中 , 有三千萬份餐是供應的 。 但 , 所有食物是從哪裡來的 ? 建築師卡洛琳鋼鐵討論每日供應一座城市的奇蹟 , 顯示出古老的食物路線如何塑造了現代世界 。
cities , culture , food , global issues	城市、文化、食物、全球議題 。
carolyn steel: how food shapes our cities	卡洛琳鋼:食物如何形塑我們的城市 。
how do you feed a city ?	要如何供應食物給一座城市 ?
it's one of the great questions of our time .	這是我們這個時代的一個大問題 。
yet it's one that's rarely asked .	但很少被提出來 。
we take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant , or indeed into this theater's foyer in about an hour's time , there is going to be food there waiting for us , having magically come from somewhere .	我們視為理所當然 , 如果我們去商店或餐廳 , 或在一個小時內進入劇院大廳 , 那裡將會有食物等待著我們 , 神奇的是從某個地方來的 。
but when you think that every day for a city the size of london , enough food has to be produced , transported , bought and sold , cooked , eaten , disposed of , and that something similar has to happen every day for every city on earth , it's remarkable that cities get fed at all .	但當你想到 , 倫敦這麼大的城市每天要有足夠的食物被製造、運輸、購買、賣菜、吃、處置同樣的事 , 每天都發生在每個城市 , 都市被餵食是很了不起的 。
we live in places like this as if they're the most natural things in the world , forgetting that because we're animals and that we need to eat , we're actually as dependent on the natural world as our ancient ancestors were .	我們住在這樣的地方 , 如同他們是世界上最自然的地方 , 忘記我們是動物 , 我們也需要進食 , 事實上 , 我們也要仰賴自然世界 , 就像我們古老的祖先一樣 。
and as more of us move into cities , more of that natural world is being transformed into extraordinary landscapes like the one behind me it's soybean fields in mato grosso in brazil in order to feed us .	隨著更多人搬到城市裡 , 更多的大自然被轉變為非凡的景觀 , 就像我身後的景觀──在巴西馬托格羅索的大豆田 , 以供應食物給我們 。
these are extraordinary landscapes , but few of us ever get to see them .	這些是非凡的景觀 , 但很少人看到它們 。
and increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either .	越來越多這些景觀也不僅僅是用來餵飽我們 。
as more of us move into cities , more of us are eating meat , so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals .	隨著我們越往城市居住越多人吃肉 , 全球就有三分之一的穀物被餵給動物 , 而不是餵給我們人類 。
and given that it takes three times as much grain actually ten times as much grain to feed a human if it's passed through an animal first , that's not a very efficient way of feeding us .	由於它需要三倍的穀物實際上是十倍的穀物如果用動物首先通過的話 , 餵飽人類的糧食不是個非常有效的方法
and it's an escalating problem too .	這也是個日漸增加的問題 。
by 2050 , it's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities .	到2050年 , 估計將是我們居住的城市人數的兩倍 。
and it's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed .	據估計 , 肉類和乳製品會消耗兩倍之多 。
so meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand .	所以 , 肉類和城市化的力量正逐漸增加 。
and that's going to pose an enormous problem .	這將是個巨大的問題 。
six billion hungry carnivores to feed , by 2050 .	到2050年 , 六十億個肉食性動物 。
that's a big problem . and actually if we carry on as we are , it's a problem we're very unlikely to be able to solve .	這是個大問題 。 如果我們不做改變 , 那我們就不太可能解決這個問題 。
nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land .	每年有一千九百萬公頃的熱帶雨林消失被開發成新的耕地 。
although at the same time we're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion .	雖然同時我們也失去同樣數量的可耕地 , 可耕種鹽化和侵蝕 。
we're very hungry for fossil fuels too .	我們也很渴望化石燃料 。
it takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the west .	西方每消費一卡路里的食物要耗去十卡路里的能量 。
and even though there is food that we are producing at great cost , we don't actually value it .	雖然我們所生產的成本很高 , 我們卻不重視它 。
half the food produced in the usa is currently thrown away .	半數在美國生產的食物都被丟掉了 。
and to end all of this , at the end of this long process , we're not even managing to feed the planet properly .	在這一切的最後 , 在這個漫長的過程中 , 我們甚至無法妥善地供應食物給地球 。
a billion of us are obese , while a further billion starve .	十億人過胖 , 卻有十億人挨餓 。
none of it makes very much sense .	這一切都不合理 。
and when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations , it's a grim picture .	試想全球百分之八十的食物交易只掌握在五家跨國企業的手上 , 這真是個可怕的局面 。
as we're moving into cities , the world is also embracing a western diet .	當我們進入城市時 , 世界也接受了西方的飲食習慣 。
and if we look to the future , it's an unsustainable diet .	如果我們看向未來 , 它是一種不可持續的飲食 。
so how did we get here ?	我們是怎麼走到這一步的 ?
and more importantly , what are we going to do about it ?	更重要的是 , 我們該怎麼做 ?
well , to answer the slightly easier question first , about 10 , 000 years ago , i would say , is the beginning of this process in the ancient near east , known as the fertile crescent .	首先 , 回答一個稍微容易一點的問題 , 大約一萬年前 , 我會說 , 是這個過程的開端 , 在古老的東邊 , 稱為新月沃土 。
because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .	因為 , 如你所見 , 它是月亮的形狀 。
and it was also fertile .	而且還很肥沃 。
and it was here , about 10 , 000 years ago , that two extraordinary inventions , agriculture and urbanism , happened roughly in the same place and at the same time .	大約在一萬年前 , 在這裡有兩項非凡的發明農業和城市的產生大約在同一個地方同時發生
this is no accident , because agriculture and cities are bound together . they need each other .	這不是意外 , 因為農業和城市是結合在一起的 。 他們彼此需要 。
because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements .	因為它是第一次由我們的古老祖先發現穀物 , 產生足夠大、穩定的食物來源 , 足以支撐永久聚落 。
and if we look at what those settlements were like , we see they were compact .	如果我們看看這些聚落是什麼樣子的 , 我們可以看到它們是緊密的 。
they were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at ur , that were , in fact , effectively , spiritualized , central food distribution centers .	它們被生產的農地包圍 , 主要是像這個在烏爾這樣的神殿 , 事實上 , 精神分配中心是中央食物分配中心 。
because it was the temples that organized the harvest , gathered in the grain , offered it to the gods , and then offered the grain that the gods didn't eat back to the people .	因爲是神殿安排收割收集穀物獻給諸神再把諸神沒吃的穀物歸還給人們
so , if you like , the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them .	所以 , 這些城市的精神和實體生活是由他們賴以維生的穀物和收穫所主導 。
and in fact , that's true of every ancient city .	事實上 , 每座古老的城市都是如此 。
but of course not all of them were that small .	但當然不是全部這麼小 。
famously , rome had about a million citizens by the first century a . d .	眾所皆知 , 在西元一世紀時 , 羅馬就有大約一百萬名公民 。
so how did a city like this feed itself ?	那麼 , 像這樣的城市是如何滿足自己的呢 ?
the answer is what i call " ancient food miles . "	答案是 , 我稱之為 「 古老食物里程 」 。
basically , rome had access to the sea , which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away .	基本上 , 羅馬得以接近海 , 這讓海水可以從很遠很遠的地方運來進食物 。
this is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world , because it was very difficult to transport food over roads , which were rough .	這是唯一能做這件事的方式 , 在古代 , 因為要把食物運送到馬路上是很困難的 , 這很艱難 。
and the food obviously went off very quickly .	食物很快就消失了 。
so rome effectively waged war on places like carthage and egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves .	所以羅馬有效地在某些地方發動戰爭 , 像是大屠殺和埃及 , 僅僅為了取得他們的穀物儲備量 。
and , in fact , you could say that the expansion of the empire was really sort of one long , drawn out militarized shopping spree , really .	事實上 , 你可以說這個帝國的擴張其實是一場漫長的軍事化購物中心 。
in fact i love the fact , i just have to mention this: rome in fact used to import oysters from london , at one stage . i think that's extraordinary .	事實上 , 我很喜歡這個事實 , 我只需要提到:羅馬還曾經從倫敦進口牡蠣我覺得這很不可思議 。
so rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite .	所以羅馬就在它的胃口塑造它的內陸 。
but the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the preindustrial world .	但有趣的是另一件事也發生在工業化前的世界 。
if we look at a map of london in the 17th century , we can see that its grain , which is coming in from the thames , along the bottom of this map .	如果我們看一下十七世紀的倫敦地圖 , 我們可以看到它的穀物 , 穀物是來自泰姆斯 , 在這張圖的底部 。
so the grain markets were to the south of the city .	所以穀物市場就在城市的南方 。
and the roads leading up from them to cheapside , which was the main market , were also grain markets .	道路從它們走到便宜的道路 , 也就是主要的市場 , 也是穀物市場 。
and if you look at the name of one of those streets , bread street , you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago .	如果你看那些街道的名字 , 麵包街 , 你可以看出三百年前的狀況 。
and the same of course was true for fish .	魚也是如此
fish was , of course , coming in by river as well . same thing .	當然 , 魚也是從河裡來的 。 同樣的事情 。
and of course billingsgate , famously , was london's fish market , operating onsite here until the mid1980s .	當然 , 比林斯門是倫敦的魚市場一直到1980年代中期才開始運作
which is extraordinary , really , when you think about it .	仔細想想 , 這真的很不可思議 。
everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port .	其他每個人都在附近徘徊 , 帶著看起來像磚塊的行動電話 , 有點像在港口的臭魚 。
this is another thing about food in cities: once its roots into the city are established , they very rarely move .	城市裡食物的另一件事是:一旦它的根部被建立起來 , 它們就幾乎不會動 。
meat is a very different story because , of course , animals could walk into the city .	肉類是另外一個故事 , 因為 , 當然 , 動物可以走進這個城市 。
so much of london's meat was coming from the northwest , from scotland and wales .	倫敦大部分的肉品是從西北方向來的 , 從蘇格蘭和威爾斯 。
so it was coming in , and arriving at the city at the northwest , which is why smithfield , london's very famous meat market , was located up there .	所以它來到倫敦西北方 , 這就是為什麼史密斯菲爾德 , 倫敦著名的肉市場 , 位在那裏 。
poultry was coming in from east anglia and so on , to the northeast .	家禽類從東安格利亞進來 , 一直到東北方 。
i feel a bit like a weather woman doing this . anyway , and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes .	我覺得有點像氣象女人在做這件事 。 總之 , 鳥類也以小小的帆布保護著進來 。
and then when they hit the eastern end of cheapside , that's where they were sold , which is why it's called poultry .	當他們到達便宜的東邊時 , 他們就在那裡被賣掉了 , 這就是為什麼被稱為 「 家禽 」 。
and , in fact , if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age , you can trace food coming in to it .	實際上 , 如果你看看任何城市的地圖在工業時代之前建成你可以追蹤食物的進程
you can actually see how it was physically shaped by food , both by reading the names of the streets , which give you a lot of clues .	你可以看到它實際上是如何被食物所塑造 , 無論是閱讀街道的名字 , 讓你有很多線索 。
friday street , in a previous life , is where you went to buy your fish on a friday .	星期五街 , 在以前是你星期五去買魚的地方 。
but also you have to imagine it full of food .	但你也要想像它滿是食物 。
because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold .	因為街道和公共空間是唯一購買食物的地方 。
and if we look at an image of smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from .	如果我們看看1830年史密斯菲爾德的照片 , 你可以看到很難住在這樣一個城市 , 且不知你的食物從哪裡來 。
in fact , if you were having sunday lunch , the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier .	事實上 , 如果你有星期日午餐 , 你有可能會在三天前在你的窗外面帶著氣或出血 。
so this was obviously an organic city , part of an organic cycle .	所以這顯然是一個有機城市 , 是有機循環的一部分 。
and then 10 years later everything changed .	十年後一切都改變了 。
this is an image of the great western in 1840 .	這是1840年大西部的照片 。
and as you can see , some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep .	如你所見 , 最早的鐵路旅客當中有一些是豬和羊 。
so all of a sudden , these animals are no longer walking into market .	突然間 , 這些動物不再走進市場 。
they're being slaughtered out of sight and mind , somewhere in the countryside .	他們被殺害 , 被視覺和思想所取代 , 在鄉間的某處 。
and they're coming into the city by rail .	他們用鐵路來到城市裡 。
and this changes everything .	這改變了一切 。
to start off with , it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities , really any size and shape , in any place .	首先 , 它使得它第一次能夠在任何地方成長城市 , 真正的大小和形狀都有可能實現 。
cities used to be constrained by geography ; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means .	過去城市受限於地理條件 ; 過去城市得要透過艱難的物理手段來取得食物 。
all of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography .	突然間 , 它們就從地理釋放了 。
and as you can see from these maps of london , in the 90 years after the trains came , it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot , and so on , to a large splurge , that would be very , very difficult to feed with anybody on foot , either animals or people .	從倫敦的地圖上可以看出在火車經過的九十年後倫敦的地圖從一個很容易餵飽的小點由動物走進來的小點到一個很大的小點 , 很難跟任何人步行 , 不管是動物還是人 。
and of course that was just the beginning . after the trains came cars , and really this marks the end of this process .	當然這只是開端 。 在火車來襲之後 , 汽車真的是這過程的終點 。
it's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all .	這是城市中最終的解放 , 從大自然的任何明顯的關係中解放 。
and this is the kind of city that's devoid of smell , devoid of mess , certainly devoid of people , because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape .	這類城市完全沒有氣味 , 更沒有混亂 , 當然也沒有人 , 因為沒有人會夢到能走在那樣的景色中 。
in fact , what they did to get food was they got in their cars , drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts , came back with a week's worth of shopping , and wondered what on earth to do with it .	事實上 , 他們的做法是開車到郊區的某處一個箱子 , 帶回一週的購物 , 然後想著要怎麼處理這些問題 。
and this really is the moment when our relationship , both with food and cities , changes completely .	此時此刻 , 我們與食物及城市的關係已完全改變 。
here we have food that used to be the center , the social core of the city at the periphery .	這裡有食物 , 以前是市中心 , 城市的社交中心 , 位在邊緣 。
it used to be a social event , buying and selling food .	它曾經是一個社交活動 , 買賣食物 。
we used to cook ; now we just add water , or a little bit of an egg if you're making a cake or something .	我們以前會做菜 , 現在只要加水 , 或加一點點雞蛋 , 如果你要做蛋糕的話 。
we don't smell food to see if it's okay to eat .	我們不會聞到食物 , 看看它有沒有吃的 。
we just read the back of a label on a packet .	我們只是閱讀包裝背後的標籤 。
and we don't value food . we don't trust it .	我們不珍視食物 , 我們不信任它
so instead of trusting it , we fear it .	所以 , 我們不再信任它 , 我們害怕它 。
and instead of valuing it , we throw it away .	我們不再珍視它 , 而是把它丟掉 。
one of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder .	現代飲食習慣其中一個最諷刺的就是他們讓自己答應的目標變得更容易 。
by making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place , they've actually distanced us from our most important relationship , which is that of us and nature .	藉由使城市在任何地方、任何地方都有可能發展出來 , 它們確實把我們與最重要的關係保持距離 , 那就是我們和大自然 。
and also they've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver , that , as we've seen , are unsustainable .	這也使得我們必須依賴他們所能傳遞的系統 , 如同我們所見 , 他們無法永續經營 。
so what are we going to do about that ?	所以 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
it's not a new question .	這不是個新問題 。
500 years ago it's what thomas more was asking himself .	五百年前托馬斯.摩爾就在問他自己 。
this is the frontispiece of his book " utopia . "	這是他的著作《烏托邦》的前面 。
and it was a series of semiindependent citystates , if that sounds remotely familiar , a day's walk from one another where everyone was basically farmingmad , and grew vegetables in their back gardens , and ate communal meals together , and so on .	這是一系列的半自給自足的城邦 , 如果聽起來很熟悉 , 一天走在一起 , 每個人都基本上是種植農作物 , 在自家的後院種蔬菜 , 一起享用餐點等等 。
and i think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of utopia , even though more never framed it that way .	我認為 , 你可以說食物是烏托邦的根本原則即便摩爾最初不是這樣設想
and here is another very famous " utopian " vision , that of ebenezer howard , " the garden city . "	這裡還有另外一個著名的烏托邦的視覺 , ebenezerhoward的 " 花園城市 " 。
same idea: series of semiindependent citystates , little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around , joined to one another by railway .	同樣的想法:一系列的半自給自足的城邦、小型的都會區 , 周圍有耕地 , 由鐵路連接在一起 。
and again , food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision .	再一次 , 食物可以是他視覺的原則 。
it even got built , but nothing to do with this vision that howard had .	甚至完成了 , 但與默斯克韋茲的願景無關 。
and that is the problem with these utopian ideas , that they are utopian .	這些烏托邦理念的問題 , 就是他們是烏托邦人 。
utopia was actually a word that thomas moore used deliberately .	烏托邦其實是湯瑪斯•摩爾刻意用的詞 。
it was a kind of joke , because it's got a double derivation from the greek .	開個玩笑 , 因為希臘語裡它有雙重主導權 。
it can either mean a good place , or no place .	可以是指好地方 , 或沒有地方 。
because it's an ideal . it's an imaginary thing . we can't have it .	因為它是理想的 。 它是想像出來的 。 我們無法擁有它 。
and i think , as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling , that makes it not much use .	我認為 , 用概念來思考人類居住的深層問題 , 這樣就沒什麼用了 。
so i've come up with an alternative , which is sitopia , from the ancient greek , " sitos " for food , and " topos " for place .	所以我想出了一個替代方案 , 就是希托邦 , 來自古希臘文 , 「 希托 」 指的是食物 , 「 屁股 」 , 指定的地方 。
i believe we already live in sitopia .	我相信我們已經住在希托邦 。
we live in a world shaped by food , and if we realize that , we can use food as a really powerful tool a conceptual tool , design tool , to shape the world differently .	我們生活在由食物塑造的世界 , 如果我們意識到 , 我們就可以用食物當作非常強大的工具 , 一個概念性工具 , 設計工具 , 用不同的方式塑造世界 。
so if we were to do that , what might sitopia look like ?	如果我們這樣做 , 希托邦會長什麼樣子 ?
well i think it looks a bit like this .	嗯 , 我覺得看起來有點像這樣 。
i have to use this slide . it's just the look on the face of the dog .	我必須用這張投影片 。 這只是狗的臉上的情形 。
but anyway , this is it's food at the center of life , at the center of family life , being celebrated , being enjoyed , people taking time for it .	總之 , 這是生活的中心 , 在家庭生活的中心 , 被讚頌 , 被享受 , 人們花時間在上面 。
this is where food should be in our society .	這就是食物在我們社會中應有的位置 。
but you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this .	但你不能有這樣的場景 , 除非你有這種人 。
by the way , these can be men as well .	順便一提 , 這也可以是男人 。
it's people who think about food , who think ahead , who plan , who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them .	人們會想到食物 , 他們會預先思考 , 計畫 , 他們會盯著一堆生菜 , 實際認可它們 。
we need these people . we're part of a network .	我們需要這些人 , 我們是網絡的一部分 。
because without these kinds of people we can't have places like this .	因為如果沒有這些人 , 我們就沒有這些地方 。
here , i deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable .	我故意選這張是因為這是男人在買蔬菜
but networks , markets where food is being grown locally .	但網路、市場 , 讓食物在當地生長 。
it's common . it's fresh .	很普遍 , 新鮮 。
it's part of the social life of the city .	它是社交生活的一部分 。
because without that , you can't have this kind of place , food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape , and is not just a zerosum commodity off in some unseen hellhole .	因為沒有了這些 , 你就不可能有這種地方 , 當地種植的食物 , 也是風景的一部分 , 而且不只是某種看不見的地獄商品 。
cows with a view .	牛則有自己的視野 。
steaming piles of humus .	蒸汽堆積如山
this is basically bringing the whole thing together .	這基本上是把所有東西結合在一起 。
and this is a community project i visited recently in toronto .	這是我最近在多倫多探訪的一個社區計畫 。
it's a greenhouse , where kids get told all about food and growing their own food .	這是一間溫室 , 孩子們會全部講述食物和種植自己的食物 。
here is a plant called kevin , or maybe it's a plant belonging to a kid called kevin . i don't know .	這裡有一株叫做凱文的植物 , 或是它屬於凱文的孩子 , 我不知道 。
but anyway , these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important .	總之 , 這類計畫正試圖將我們與大自然重新連結 , 是非常重要的 。
so sitopia , for me , is really a way of seeing .	所以 , 希托邦 , 對我來說 , 其實是一種看待的方式 。
it's basically recognizing that sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere .	基本上 , 意識到希托邦已經存在於每個地方的小口袋裡 。
the trick is to join them up , to use food as a way of seeing .	訣竅是要把它們連接起來 , 用食物當作是一種看見的方式 。
and if we do that , we're going to stop seeing cities as big , metropolitan , unproductive blobs , like this .	如果我們這樣做 , 我們就不會再把城市視為大型、都市化、無生產力的區塊了 。
we're going to see them more like this , as part of the productive , organic framework of which they are inevitably a part , symbiotically connected .	我們會把它們看成是有生產力有機架構的一部分 , 它們無可避免地被連結著 。
but of course , that's not a great image either , because we need not to be producing food like this anymore .	當然 , 這也不是一張很棒的圖片 , 因為我們需要不再生產像這樣的食物 。
we need to be thinking more about permaculture , which is why i think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing .	我們需要多想想永續農業 , 這就是為什麼我認為這張圖可以總結出我們該做的事 。
it's a reconceptualization of the way food shapes our lives .	這概念化了食物如何形塑我們的生活 。
the best image i know of this is from 650 years ago .	我所知道的最好的圖片是650年前的 。
it's ambrogio lorenzetti's " allegory of good government . "	安布洛吉歐•羅倫澤蒂的 " 良好政府的寓言 "
it's about the relationship between the city and the countryside .	而是城市與鄉間的關係 。
and i think the message of this is very clear .	我認為這件事的訊息非常清楚 。
if the city looks after the country , the country will look after the city .	如果城市照顧這個國家 , 這個國家會照顧這個城市 。
and i want us to ask now , what would ambrogio lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today ?	我現在想問大家安布洛吉歐.羅倫澤蒂會怎麼畫 ? 如果他今天畫了這張圖 ?
what would an allegory of good government look like today ?	今天 , 好的政府的寓言會是什麼樣子的 ?
because i think it's an urgent question .	因為我認為這是一個迫切的問題 。
it's one we have to ask , and we have to start answering .	這是我們必須問的問題 , 我們必須開始回答 。
we know we are what we eat .	我們知道我們吃什麼 。
we need to realize that the world is also what we eat .	我們需要了解 , 世界是我們吃的東西 。
but if we take that idea , we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better .	但如果我們能採取這個想法 , 我們可以使用食物作為一個強大的工具 , 來改善這個世界 。
weeks from the charter for compassion launch , karen armstrong looks at religion's role in the 21st century: will its dogmas divide us ? or will it unite us for common good ? she reviews the catalysts that can drive the world's faiths to rediscover the golden rule .	同情憲章的幾個星期後 , 凱倫•阿姆斯壯觀察了21世紀的宗教角色:教條會將我們分割嗎 ? 還是會讓我們團結一致 ? 她檢視能促使世界的信仰重新發現黃金法則的催化劑 。
god , ted prize , global issues , politics , religion , tedglobal2009 , violence	上帝、ted大獎、全球議題、政治、宗教、tedglobal2009年的暴力事件 。
karen armstrong: let's revive the golden rule	karenarmstrong:讓我們重新審視黃金法則 。
for years i've been feeling frustrated , because as a religious historian , i've become acutely aware of the centrality of compassion in all the major world faiths .	多年來我一直感到挫折 , 因為身為宗教歷史學家 , 我敏銳地意識到同情心在世界上的主要宗教信仰中扮演的核心角色 。
every single one of them has evolved their own version of what's been called the golden rule .	他們每一個人都發展出他們自己所謂的 「 黃金法則 」 的版本 。
sometimes it comes in a positive version " always treat all others as you'd like to be treated yourself . "	有時會出現一個正面的版本 「 向其他人對待自己 」 。
and equally important is the negative version " don't do to others what you would not like them to do to you . "	同樣重要的是 , 負面的版本 「 不要對其他人做你不想對你做的事 。 」
look into your own heart , discover what it is that gives you pain and then refuse , under any circumstance whatsoever , to inflict that pain on anybody else .	看看你自己的內心 , 發現是什麼讓你感到痛苦 , 接著拒絕 , 在任何情況下 , 去讓別人感到痛苦 。
and people have emphasized the importance of compassion , not just because it sounds good , but because it works .	人們也強調同情的重要性 , 不是因為它聽起來很棒 , 而是因為它很有效 。
people have found that when they have implemented the golden rule as confucius said , " all day and every day , " not just a question of doing your good deed for the day and then returning to a life of greed and egotism , but to do it all day and every day , you dethrone yourself from the center of your world , put another there , and you transcend yourself .	人們發現 , 當他們實施了黃金法則 , 就像孔子說: 「 一整天、每一天 」 , 不只是做好事 , 接著又回到貪婪、自我主義的人生 , 但若要做一整天 , 你就要脫離你世界的中心 , 另外一個你會超越自己 。
and it brings you into the presence of what's been called god , nirvana , rama , tao .	它會引領你到一個名為 「 神 」 、 「 涅盤 」 、 「 道 」 的境界 。
something that goes beyond what we know in our egobound existence .	超越我們對存在的認知 。
but you know you'd never know it a lot of the time , that this was so central to the religious life .	但你知道你從來不知道很多時候 , 這對於宗教生活是如此重要 。
because with a few wonderful exceptions , very often when religious people come together , religious leaders come together , they're arguing about abstruse doctrines or uttering a council of hatred or inveighing against homosexuality or something of that sort .	因為和一些很棒的例外 , 當宗教人士結合在一起時 , 宗教領袖會聚在一起 , 他們爭論的是深奧的教義 , 或是說出一連串的仇恨指南 , 或是一連串的仇恨 , 來對抗同性戀或類似的事 。
often people don't really want to be compassionate .	人們往往不想變得慈悲
i sometimes see when i'm speaking to a congregation of religious people a sort of mutinous expression crossing their faces because people often want to be right instead .	有時我會看到 , 當我和一群宗教人士談話時 , 有點不太可能表達出他們臉上的表情 , 因為人們通常會希望他們是對的 。
and that of course defeats the object of the exercise .	這當然會打敗運動的對象 。
now why was i so grateful to ted ?	為什麼我對ted這麼感激 ?
because they took me very gently from my booklined study and brought me into the 21st century , enabling me to speak to a much , much wider audience than i could have ever conceived .	因為他們溫和地把我從我的書架研究帶到21世紀 , 讓我能對更廣泛的觀眾說話 , 遠比我想像的還要廣 。
because i feel an urgency about this .	因為我覺得這件事很急迫 。
if we don't manage to implement the golden rule globally , so that we treat all peoples , wherever and whoever they may be , as though they were as important as ourselves , i doubt that we'll have a viable world to hand on to the next generation .	如果我們不想辦法在全球實施黃金法則 , 不論在哪裡 , 不論在哪裡 , 不論在哪裡 , 不論在哪裡 , 不論在哪裡 , 我懷疑我們會有一個可實現的世界 , 把下一代傳遞給下一代 。
the task of our time , one of the great tasks of our time , is to build a global society , as i said , where people can live together in peace .	我們這個時代的任務 , 我們這個時代最大的任務之一 , 就是建立一個全球性社會 , 如我所說 , 讓人們可以和平共處 。
and the religions that should be making a major contribution are instead seen as part of the problem .	而應該對宗教做出重大貢獻的宗教反而被視為問題的一部分 。
and of course it's not just religious people who believe in the golden rule .	當然 , 不只是宗教人士 , 他們相信黃金法則 。
this is the source of all morality , this imaginative act of empathy , putting yourself in the place of another .	這是所有道德的來源 , 這種富有想像力的同理心行為 , 讓自己置身於他人之處 。
and so we have a choice , it seems to me .	所以我們有一個選擇 , 這對我來說 。
we can either go on bringing out or emphasizing the dogmatic and intolerant aspects of our faith , or we can go back to the rabbis . rabbi hillel , the older contemporary of jesus , who , when asked by a pagan to sum up the whole of jewish teaching while he stood on one leg , said , " that which is hateful to you , do not do to your neighbor .	我們可以繼續宣揚或強調宗教的教條或是不寬容的面向 , 或者我們可以回到拉比希勒 , 和耶穌的大老同一代 , 當他站在一條腿上的時候 , 去總結猶太教義 , 他說: 「 你不願意做的事 , 不要對你的鄰居做任何事 。
that is the torah and everything else is only commentary . "	「 這就是教義 , 其他都只是評論 。 」
and the rabbis and the early fathers of the church who said that any interpretation of scripture that bred hatred and disdain was illegitimate .	猶太教中早期的父親們 , 他們說任何對聖經的詮釋 , 任何對聖經的詮釋都是違法的 。
and we need to revive that spirit .	我們需要復興那份精神 。
and it's not just going to happen because a spirit of love wafts us down .	這不只發生 , 因為愛的精神會讓我們失望 。
we have to make this happen , and we can do it with the modern communications that ted has introduced .	我們必須讓它實現 , 我們可以實現ted介紹的現代傳媒介 。
already i've been tremendously heartened at the response of all our partners .	我已經對所有伴侶的回應都心存激動了 。
in singapore , we have a group going to use the charter to heal divisions recently that have sprung up in singaporean society , and some members of the parliament want to implement it politically .	在新加坡 , 我們有個團體要用 「 憲章 」 來治癒新加坡社會最近出現的憲法 ; 議會的一些成員要在政治上實施它 。
in malaysia , there is going to be an art exhibition in which leading artists are going to be taking people , young people , and showing them that compassion also lies at the root of all art .	在馬來西亞 , 將來會有一場藝術展覽 , 主導藝術家會帶領人們 , 年輕人 , 向他們展示 , 同情也是所有藝術的根源 。
throughout europe , the muslim communities are holding events and discussions , are discussing the centrality of compassion in islam and in all faiths .	在歐洲各地 , 穆斯林團體舉辦事件和討論 , 討論同情心在伊斯蘭和所有信仰的核心 。
but it can't stop there . it can't stop with the launch .	但它不能就此停止 , 它不能就這樣就停止發射 。
religious teaching , this is where we've gone so wrong , concentrating solely on believing abstruse doctrines .	宗教教導 , 這也是我們如此走錯的地方 , 非常專注於相信深奧的教義 。
religious teaching must always lead to action .	宗教教誨一定要付諸行動 。
and i intend to work on this till my dying day .	我打算在這條路上直到臨終那一天為止工作 。
and i want to continue with our partners to do two things educate and stimulate compassionate thinking .	我還想繼續跟我們的夥伴繼續做兩件事 , 教育並激發同情心思維 。
education because we've so dropped out of compassion .	教育因為我們已經失去了同情心 。
people often think it simply means feeling sorry for somebody .	人們通常認為這只是對某些人感到遺憾
but of course you don't understand compassion if you're just going to think about it .	但想一想 , 你就是不了解同情心 。
you also have to do it .	你也必須這樣做 。
i want them to get the media involved because the media are crucial in helping to dissolve some of the stereotypical views we have of other people , which are dividing us from one another .	我希望媒體參與其中 , 是因為媒體是幫助人們破除我們對其他人的刻板印象的關鍵 , 使我們彼此隔離 。
the same applies to educators .	教育家也一樣 。
i'd like youth to get a sense of the dynamism , the dynamic and challenge of a compassionate lifestyle .	我希望年輕人能體會到一種充滿活力、有同情心的生活方式的動態和挑戰 。
and also see that it demands acute intelligence , not just a gooey feeling .	還有 , 它需要有急性智慧 , 不只是糟糕的感覺 。
i'd like to call upon scholars to explore the compassionate theme in their own and in other people's traditions .	我想請求學者來探索他們自己的同情心主題 , 以及他們自己的傳統中 。
and perhaps above all , to encourage a sensitivity about uncompassionate speaking , so that because people have this charter , whatever their beliefs or lack of them , they feel empowered to challenge uncompassionate speech , disdainful remarks from their religious leaders , their political leaders , from the captains of industry .	最重要的是 , 鼓勵人們對於沒有同情心的言論 , 這麼一來 , 因為人們有這個憲章 , 不論他們的信仰 , 不論他們的信仰 , 或他們缺少什麼 , 他們就會覺得有能力去挑戰不夠熱情的言論 , 不確定性的言論來自於他們的信仰領袖 , 他們的政治領袖 , 來自工業界的首領 。
because we can change the world , we have the ability .	因為我們能改變世界 , 我們有能力 。
i would never have thought of putting the charter online .	我從來不會想把憲章放上網 。
i was still stuck in the old world of a whole bunch of boffins sitting together in a room and issuing yet another arcane statement .	我還被困在一個老世界裡 , 一大堆的波芬斯坐在房間裡 , 發表了一個神秘的聲明 。
and ted introduced me to a whole new way of thinking and presenting ideas .	ted介紹我一種全新的思考和呈現想法的方式 。
because that is what is so wonderful about ted .	因為那就是ted美妙的地方 。
in this room , all this expertise , if we joined it all together , we could change the world .	在這個房間裡 , 所有這些專業知識 , 如果我們把這些知識結合在一起 , 我們就能改變世界 。
and of course the problems sometimes seem insuperable .	當然 , 有些時候 , 這些問題似乎很棘手 。
but i'd just like to quote , finish at the end with a reference to a british author , an oxford author whom i don't quote very often , c . s . lewis .	但我想引用一句話來結束 , 一位英國作家 , 牛津作家 , 我不太常提到他 , c.s.路易斯 。
but he wrote one thing that stuck in my mind ever since i read it when i was a schoolgirl .	但他寫的一句話令我印象深刻 , 自從我還是個學童時期 , 就一直印象深刻 。
it's in his book " the four loves . "	這是他《四項愛》的書 。
he said that he distinguished between erotic love , when two people gaze , spellbound , into each other's eyes .	他說 , 他區分性愛 , 當兩個人凝視 , 拼字 , 看彼此的眼睛 。
and then he compared that to friendship , when two people stand side by side , as it were , shoulder to shoulder , with their eyes fixed on a common goal .	然後他把這和友誼比較 , 當兩個人站在一邊 , 肩並肩 , 視力固定在共同的目標上 。
we don't have to fall in love with each other , but we can become friends .	我們不需要愛上彼此 , 但我們可以成為朋友 。
and i am convinced .	我深信不疑 。
i felt it very strongly during our little deliberations at vevey , that when people of all different persuasions come together , working side by side for a common goal , differences melt away .	在我們對薇薇的小小考慮期間 , 我覺得它非常強烈 , 當不同說服的人集合在一起 , 一面為共同的目標努力 , 差異會融化 。
and we learn amity .	我們會學習到 「 性 」 。
and we learn to live together and to get to know one another .	我們學會了活在一起 , 了解彼此 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
david macaulay relives the winding and sometimes surreal journey toward the completion of rome antics , his illustrated homage to the historic city .	davidmacaulay重溫風向 , 有時超現實的旅程 , 要完成羅馬的反抗運動 , 他對於歷史城市的致敬表示敬 。
macarthur grant , art , arts , book , cities , communication , culture , design , entertainment , humor , storytelling	macarthurgant , 藝術 , 藝術 , 藝術 , 城市 , 溝通 , 文化 , 設計 , 娛樂 , 幽默 , 說故事 。
i draw to better understand things .	我畫作是為了更好的理解事物 。
sometimes i make a lot of drawings and i still don't understand what it is i'm drawing .	有時我畫很多但還是不明白我畫的是什麼
those of you who are comfortable with digital stuff and even smug about that relationship might be amused to know that the guy who is best known for " the way things work , " while preparing for part of a panel for called understanding , spent two days trying to get his laptop to communicate with his new cd burner .	在座那些對數位資訊很自在 , 甚至對這個關係感到羞愧的人 , 都會覺得好笑 , 因為知道 「 事情運作的方式 」 最出名的那個人 , 而在為 「 理解 」 做準備的前提下 , 花了兩天 , 想和他的新cd燒錄器溝通 。
who knew about extension managers ?	誰知道延伸的經理 ?
i've always managed my own extensions so it never even occurred to me to read the instructions , but i did finally figure it out . i had to figure it out , because along with the invitation came the frightening reminder that there would be no projector , so bringing those carousels would no longer be necessary but some alternate form of communication would .	我一向都是自己設立的延伸--所以我從來沒有想過要閱讀這些指令 , 但我終於搞懂了 。 我是想通了 。 因為隨著邀請函提醒我們這裡沒有幻燈機 , 所以吸引這些幻燈片是不必要的--但一些替代的溝通方式是可以的 。
now , i could talk about something that i'm known for , something that would be particularly appropriate for many of the more technically minded people here , or i could talk about something i really care about .	我可以談談我知名的事物 , 特別適合在座許多技術專業人士 , 或我可以談談我真正關心的議題 。
i decided to go with the latter .	我決定跟後者一起去 。
i'm going to talk about rome .	我要來談談羅馬 。
now , why would i care about rome , particularly ?	為什麼我會特別關心羅馬 ?
well , i went to rhode island school of design in the second half of the '60s to study architecture .	嗯 , 我在羅德島設計學院念建築 , 是在60年代後期 。
i was lucky enough to spend my last year , my fifth year , in rome as a student . it changed my life .	我很幸運能度過我當學生的最後一年 , 第五年在羅馬度過這改變了我的一生
not the least reason was the fact that i had spent those first four years living at home , driving into risd everyday , driving back .	不是因為前四年我都住在家裡每天開車去rsid回家
i missed the '60s . i read about them ; i understand they were pretty interesting . i missed them , but i did spend that extraordinary year in rome , and it's a place that is never far from my mind .	我錯過了1960年代 。 我讀到它們 。 我知道它們很有趣 。 我懷念它們 , 但我確實在羅馬度過那不平凡的一年 , 而且這個地方離我腦袋很遠 。
so , whenever given an opportunity , i try to do something in it or with it or for it .	所以 , 只要有機會 , 我就會試著為它做點什麼 , 或為它做點什麼 。
i also make drawings to help people understand things .	我也畫圖幫助人們理解事物 。
things that i want them to believe i understand .	我希望他們相信我能理解的事情 。
and that's what i do as an illustrator , that's my job .	這就是我作為一個插畫家所做的 , 我的工作 。
so , i'm going to show you some pictures of rome .	所以 , 我要給你們看一些羅馬的照片 。
i've made a lot of drawings of rome over the years .	這些年來 , 我畫了很多關於羅馬的畫 。
these are just drawings of rome . i get back as often as possible i need to .	這些只是羅馬的畫作 。 我盡可能多回去 。
all different materials , all different styles , all different times , drawings from sketchbooks looking at the details of rome .	各種不同的材質、風格、時代 , 從sketchbook繪出的圖像 , 觀察羅馬的細節 。
part of the reason i'm showing you these is that it sort of helps illustrate this process i go through of trying to figure out what it is i feel about rome and why i feel it .	我讓你們看這些的部分原因是它有助於描述我經歷的這個過程 , 試圖找出我對羅馬的感受 , 以及我為何感覺 。
these are sketches of some of the little details .	這些是一些細節的草圖 。
rome is a city full of surprises .	羅馬是個充滿驚喜的城市 。
i mean , we're talking about unusual perspectives , we're talking about narrow little winding streets that suddenly open into vast , sundrenched piazzas never , though , piazzas that are not humanly scaled .	我是說 , 我們在談的是非比尋常的觀點 , 我們談的是狹窄的彎曲街道 , 突然變成寬闊的陽光充足的廣場 , 儘管如此 , 廣場從來沒有被人類規模過 。
part of the reason for that is the fact that they grew up organically .	其中一個原因是 , 它們是有機地長大 。
that amazing juxtaposition of old and new , the bits of light that come down between the buildings that sort of create a map that's traveling above your head of usually blue especially in the summer compared to the map that you would normally expect to see of conventional streets .	把新舊和新的對照組合在一起 , 兩棟大樓之間的光點 , 創造出了一張在你腦海上方運行的地圖 , 通常是藍色的夏天 , 相較於一般常見街道的地圖 。
and i began to think about how i could communicate this in book form .	我開始思考如何用書的形式來溝通 。
how could i share my sense of rome , my understanding of rome ?	我要如何分享我對羅馬的感受、我對羅馬的了解 ?
and i'm going to show you a bunch of dead ends , basically .	我現在要給你們看一些基本上死胡同
the primary reason for all these dead ends is when if you're not quite sure where you're going , you're certainly not going to get there with any kind of efficiency .	最主要的理由是如果你不太確定你要往哪個方向發展 , 你一定不會達到那樣的效率 。
here's a little map . and i thought of maps at the beginning ; maybe i should just try and do a little atlas of my favorite streets and connections in rome .	這是一張小地圖 , 我在一開始就想到了地圖也許我應該試試看在羅馬我最喜歡的街道和連接
and here's a line of text that actually evolves from the exhaust of a scooter zipping across the page .	這裡有一行字 , 實際上是從摩托車的精疲力竭中演化而成 , 橫跨頁面 。
here that same line of text wraps around a fountain in an illustration that can be turned upside down and read both ways .	同樣的一行字 , 圍繞在一個噴泉附近 , 也可以顛倒過來 , 翻過來閱讀兩種方式 。
maybe that line of text could be a story to help give some human aspect to this .	也許這一行的文字可以是故事 , 來協助我們從事這方面的人類活動 。
maybe i should get away from this map completely , and really be honest about wanting to show you my favorite bits and pieces of rome and simply kick a soccer ball in the air which happens in so many of the squares in the city and let it bounce off of things . and i'll simply explain what each of those things is that the soccer ball hits .	也許我應該全部離開這張地圖 , 非常誠實地向你們展示我最喜歡的羅馬片段 , 簡單地踢一支足球 , 發生在城市中許多廣場上 , 讓它彈來彈去 。 我簡單地解釋一下 , 足球打中了什麼 。
that seemed like a sort of a cheap shot .	這看起來像是個便宜的畫面 。
but even though i just started this presentation , this is not the first thing that i tried to do and i was getting sort of desperate .	但即使我剛發表這個簡報 , 這不是我嘗試要做的第一件事 , 我有點急得不得了 。
eventually , i realized that i had really no content that i could count on , so i decided to move towards packaging .	最終 , 我發現我沒有什麼可以依賴的內容 , 所以我決定要朝包裝前進 。
i mean , it seems to work for a lot of things .	我是說 , 這似乎很適合很多事情 。
so i thought a little box set of four small books might do the trick .	所以我想一個四本小書的小盒子 , 可能會作這個把戲 。
but one of the ideas that emerged from some of those sketches was the notion of traveling through rome in different vehicles at different speeds in order to show the different aspects of rome .	但其中一個想法浮現了一些草圖 , 就是在不同的車速上穿越羅馬 。 展現羅馬不同的面向 。
sort of an overview of rome and the plan that you might see from a dirigible .	有點像是羅馬的總觀 , 以及從飛船上能看到的計畫 。
quick snapshots of things you might see from a speeding motor scooter , and very slow walking through rome , you might be able to study in more detail some of the wonderful surfaces and whatnot that you come across .	快速地拍攝你可能從飛速摩托車上看到的東西 , 步履緩慢 , 你可能可以更細緻地研究一些美妙的表面 , 以及你碰到的那些東西 。
anyways , i went back to the dirigible notion .	總之 , 我回到了飛船的概念 。
went to alberto santosdumont .	去了阿爾伯托•桑托斯的監獄 。
found one of his dirigibles that had enough dimensions so i could actually use it as a scale that i would then juxtapose with some of the things in rome .	找到了他一個有足夠維度的飛行器 , 這樣我就可以將它當成一個尺寸 , 然後把他和羅馬的一些東西混合在一起 。
this thing would be flying over or past or be parked in front of , but it would be like having a ruler sort of travel through the pages without being a ruler .	飛越或者飛越或者飛越或者飛越過或者停在前面 , 但就像是有一把尺 , 穿過書面 , 不做尺子 。
not that you know how long number 11 actually is , but you would be able to compare number 11 against the pantheon with number 11 against the baths of caracalla , and so on and so forth . if you were interested .	不是因為你知道11號實際上有多長 , 而你可以拿11號和萬神殿進行比較 , 拿11號跟卡拉卡拉浴場進行比較 , 以此類推 。 如果你有興趣的話 。
this is beatrix . she has a dog named ajax , she has purchased a dirigible a small dirigible she's assembling the structure , ajax is sniffing for holes in the balloon before they set off .	這是碧翠絲 , 她有隻狗叫阿賈克斯 , 她買了一艘飛船 , 小型飛船她正在組裝這個架構 , 阿賈克斯在氣球上嗅到漏洞
she launches this thing above the spanish steps and sets off for an aerial tour of the city .	她在西班牙階梯上起飛 , 開始飛往城市的空中旅程 。
over the spanish steps we go .	我們走到西班牙階梯上 。
a nice way to show that river , that stream sort of pouring down the hill .	展現這條河的真好 , 這條溪流有點傾倒在山上 。
unfortunately , just across the road from it or quite close by is the column of marcus aurelius , and the diameter of the dirigible makes an impression , as you can see , as she starts trying to read the story that spirals around the column of marcus aurelius gets a little too close , nudges it .	不幸的是 , 就在馬庫斯.奧里利烏斯的柱子上 , 飛躍式的直徑產生了一種印象 , 如你所見 , 當她開始閱讀馬庫斯柱柱周圍旋轉的故事時 , 讓它有點太靠近 , 推動它 。
this gives me a chance to suggest to you the structure of the column of marcus aurelius , which is really no more than a pile of quarters high thick quarters . over the piazza of saint ignacio , completely ruining the symmetry , but that aside a spectacular place to visit .	這就給了我一個建議馬可.奧里里略圓柱的結構這不僅僅是一堆四分之一高的硬幣大小 , 在聖伊納西歐廣場上空 , 整個毀了對稱性 , 但除了一個非常棒的地方以外 , 去拜訪
a spectacular framework , inside of which you see , usually , extraordinary blue sky .	一個壯觀的架構內部通常是非凡的藍天 。
over the pantheon and the 26foot diameter oculus .	在萬神殿和直徑26英尺的眼睛上方 。
she parks her dirigible , lowers the anchor rope and climbs down for a closer look inside .	她停下飛船 , 放下纜繩 , 爬下更仔細的看內部 。
the text here is right side and upside down so that you are forced to turn the book around , and you can see it from ground point of view and from her point of view looking in the hole , getting a different kind of perspective , moving you around the space . particularly appropriate in a building that can contain perfectly a sphere dimensions of the diameter being the same as the distance from the center of the floor to the center of the oculus .	這裡的文字是對的 , 上下顛倒 , 所以你被迫將書本翻過來 , 從地面看 , 從她的角度看進去 , 用不同的觀點看待書 , 帶著不同的觀點 , 讓你繞著空間移動 。 特別是適合建築物的空間 , 直徑是直徑的直徑和從地面向到章魚的中心的距離是一樣的 。
unfortunately for her , the anchor line gets tangled around the feet of some boy scouts who are visiting the pantheon , and they are immediately yanked out and given an extraordinary but terrifying tour of some of the domes of rome , which would , from their point of view , naturally be hanging upside down .	不幸的是 , 對她來說 , 這條架線纏住了一些正在參觀萬神殿的男孩們 , 他們馬上就被傾出去 , 進行一段非凡但又恐怖的巡迴演出 , 從他們的角度來看 , 很自然的就上下擺了 。
they bail out as soon as they get to the top of saint ivo , that little spiral structure you see there .	他們一到達聖伊沃的頂峰就保釋出來了 , 就看到那個螺旋狀的結構 。
she continues on her way over piazza navona .	她繼續前往那佛那廣場 。
notices a lot of activity at the tre scalini restaurant , is reminded that it is lunchtime and she's hungry .	注意到在trespalini餐廳有很大的活動這提醒她要吃午餐了 , 她餓了
they keep on motoring towards the campo de' fiori , which they soon reach . ajax the dog is put in a basket and lowered with a list of food into the marketplace , which flourishes there until about one in the afternoon , and then is completely removed and doesn't appear again until six or seven the following morning .	他們繼續向鮮花廣場行駛很快就到了 。 小狗阿賈克斯被放在籃子裡 , 把一份食物放到市場上 , 一直到下午一點 , 才會繁衍出去 , 一直到隔天六、七點都不會再出現 , 直到第二天早上 。
anyway , the pooch gets back to the dirigible with the stuff .	總之 , 小狗回到飛船上 ,
unfortunately , when she goes to unwrap the prosciutto , ajax makes a lunge for it .	不幸的是 , 當她要解開這個針筒時 , 阿賈克斯為它做了一頓午餐 。
she's managed to save the prosciutto , but in the process she loses the tablecloth , which you can see flying away in the upper lefthand corner .	她成功救了這條桌布 , 但在過程中 , 她失去了桌布 , 你可以看到在左上角飛走的桌布 。
they continue without their tablecloth , looking for a place to land this thing so that they can actually have lunch .	他們沒有桌布 , 持續找個地方降落 , 這樣他們就可以吃午餐 。
they eventually discover a huge wall that's filled with small holes , ideal for docking a dirigible because you've got a place to tie up .	他們最終發現了一面巨大的牆 , 裡面都是小洞 , 用來做繞土 , 理想的做法 , 因為你有地方可以連結在一起 。
turns out to be the exterior wall that part of it that remains of the coliseum , so they park themselves there and have a terrific lunch and have a spectacular view .	結果那面牆是羅馬競技場殘留下來的外牆 , 所以他們停在那裡 , 吃很棒的午餐 , 景色壯觀 。
at the end of lunch , they untie the anchor , they set off through the baths of caracalla and over the walls of the city and then an abandoned gatehouse and decide to take one more look at the pyramid of cestius , which has this lightning rod on top .	吃完午餐後 , 他們解開錨出發 , 穿過卡拉卡拉浴場 , 飛過城市的牆面 , 然後一個廢棄的門廊 , 決定再看一眼賽斯提烏斯金字塔的金字塔 , 頂部有燈棒 。
unfortunately , that's a problem: they get a little too close , and when you're in a dirigible you have to be very careful about spikes .	不幸的是 , 問題來了:他們有點太靠近了 , 而當你在飛船上時 , 你得要非常小心滑鼠 。
so that sort of brings her little story to a conclusion .	這讓她的故事得以總結 。
marcello , on the other hand , is sort of a lazy guy , but he's not due at work until about noon .	另一方面 , 馬爾切洛有點懶惰 , 但他中午才下班 。
so , the alarm goes off and it's five to 12 or so .	所以 , 警報響了5 ~ 12次 。
he gets up , leaps onto his scooter , races through the city past the church of santa maria della pace , down the alleys , through the streets that tourists may be wandering through , disturbing the quiet backstreet life of rome at every turn .	他站起來 , 躍上他的摩托車 , 越過城市的聖母堂 , 越過小巷 , 穿越小巷 , 觀光遊走的街道 , 時時刻刻都在迴盪著 , 每次都會打擾羅馬的安靜後台生活 。
that speed with which he is moving , i hope i have suggested in this little image , which , again , can be turned around and read from both sides because there's text on the bottom and text on the top , one of which is upside down in this image .	他在移動的速度 , 我希望我在這張圖上提出 , 同樣地 , 可以反過來看 , 從兩側讀出來 , 因為下面有字母 , 上面有文字 , 上面的字是上下顛倒的影像 。
so , he keeps on moving , approaching an unsuspecting waiter who is trying to deliver two plates of linguine in a delicate white wine clam sauce to diners who are sitting at a table just outside of a restaurant in the street .	所以 , 他繼續前進 , 接近一間毫不知情的服務生 , 他試圖在精緻的白葡萄酒蛤蚌蛤醬上遞送兩塊義肢給坐在街邊餐廳外的客人 。
waiter catches on , but it's too late .	服務員追上來了 , 但已經太遲了 。
and marcello keeps moving in his scooter .	馬爾切洛還在他的摩托車上前進 。
everything he sees from this point on is slightly affected by the linguine , but keeps on moving because this guy's got a job to do .	從這個時點 , 他看到的所有東西都有點被語言所影響 , 但仍然繼續前進 , 因為這個人有工作要做 。
removes some scaffolding . one of the reasons rome remains the extraordinary place it is that because of scaffolding and the determination to maintain the fabric , it is a city that continues to grow and adapt to the needs of the particular time in which it finds itself , or we find it .	移除一些支架 。 羅馬仍是個不可思議的地方 , 因為架構和維持結構的決心 , 這個城市持續成長 , 並適應特定時間的需求 , 或我們找到了它 。
right through the piazza della rotonda , in front of the pantheon again wreaking havoc and finally getting to work .	就在廣場 , 羅通達廣場 , 在萬神殿前 , 又會再次破壞大屠殺 , 終於成功了 。
marcello , as it turns out , is the driver of the number 64 bus , and if you've been on the number 64 bus , you know that it's driven with the same kind of exuberance as marcello demonstrated on his scooter .	結果發現 , 馬爾切洛是64路巴士的司機 , 如果你坐過64路巴士 , 你知道這巴士開得跟馬爾切洛的摩托車展示的一樣精彩 。
and finally carletto . you see his apartment in the upper lefthand corner .	最後是carletto , 你可以看到他在左上角的公寓
he's looking at his table ; he's planning to propose this evening to his girlfriend of 40 years , and he wants it to be perfect .	他正盯著桌子看桌子 , 今晚打算向他的女友求婚40年 , 他希望一切都是完美的 。
he's got candles out , he's got flowers in the middle and he's trying to figure out where to put the plates and the glasses .	他把蠟燭拿出來 , 中間有鮮花他正想著要把板子和玻璃放在哪裡
but he's not happy ; something's wrong .	但他不高興 , 不對勁 。
the phone rings anyway , he's called to the palazzo .	電話響了 , 叫他去palazzo 。
he saunters he saunters at a good clip , but as compared to all the traveling we've just seen , he's sauntering .	他在一段不錯的短片偷跑 , 但和我們剛剛看到的那些旅行比起來 , 他簡直嚇人了 。
everybody knows carletto , because he's in entertainment , actually ; he's in television .	大家都知道carletto , 因為他在娛樂界 , 其實他在電視界 。
he's actually in television repair , which is why people know him .	他真的在電視維修 , 這就是為什麼大家會知道他 。
so they all have his number .	所以他們都有他的電話號碼 。
he arrives at the palazzo , arrives at the big front door .	他抵達了大門 , 抵達大門 。
enters the courtyard and talks to the custodian , who tells him that there's been a disaster in the palazzo ; nobody's tvs are working and there's a big soccer game coming up , and the crowd is getting a little restless and a little nervous .	走進院子 , 和看門人聊天 , 他告訴他 , 宮殿裡有一場災難 。 沒有人有電視業 , 即將有一場大足球比賽 , 人群變得有點緊張和緊張 。
he goes down to the basement and starts to check the wiring , and then gradually works his way up to the top of the building , apartment by apartment , checking every television , checking every connection , hoping to find out what this problem is .	他下到地下室 , 開始檢查電線 , 然後慢慢地爬到樓頂 , 每間公寓都經過檢查 , 檢查每一台電視機 , 想找出問題的所在 。
he works his way up , finally , the grand staircase and then a smaller staircase until he reaches the attic .	他一直往上爬 , 終於到了大樓梯然後上了一個小一點的樓梯直到他到了閣樓
he opens the window of the attic , of course , and there's a tablecloth wrapped around the building's television antenna .	他打開閣樓的窗戶 , 當然 , 還有一張桌布掛在建築物的電視天線上 。
he removes it , the problems are solved , everybody in the palazzo is happy .	他除去它 , 問題就解決了 , 宮殿中的所有人都很開心 。
and of course , he also solves his own problem .	當然 , 他也解決了自己的問題 。
all he has to do now , with a perfect table , is wait for her to arrive .	他現在只需要用一個完美的桌子 , 就等著她抵達 。
that was the first attempt , but it didn't seem substantial enough to convey whatever it was i wanted to convey about rome .	那是第一次嘗試 , 但看起來還不夠實在 , 傳達我想表達的對羅馬的看法 。
so i thought , well , i'll just do piazzas , and i'll get inside and underneath and i'll show these things growing and show why they're shaped the way they are and so on .	所以我想 , 好吧 , 我就來做廣場 , 我會進進去和下面 , 展示這些東西的成長 , 並且展示它們的形成方式等等 。
and then i thought , that's too complicated . no , i'll just take my favorite bits and pieces and i'll put them inside the pantheon but keep the scale , so you can see the top of sant'ivo and the pyramid of cestius and the tempietto of bramante all side by side in this amazing space .	然後我想 , 這太複雜了 。 不對 , 我拿我最喜歡的位元和碎片 , 把它們放到萬神廟內 , 保持這個尺度 , 你可以看到聖誕節的頂端 , 還有賽斯提烏斯的金字塔 , 還有布拉曼特的小禮拜堂 , 都在這片神奇的空間中 。
now that's one drawing , so i thought maybe it's time for piranesi to meet escher .	這是一幅畫 , 所以我想也許是時候讓皮拉內西與埃舍見面了 。
you see that i'm beginning to really lose control here and also hope .	你可以看到我開始失去了控制權 , 也失去了希望 。
there's a very thin blue line of exhaust that sort of runs through this thing that would be kind of the trail that holds it all together .	有一條非常薄的藍色線條 , 貫穿了這些線條 , 讓整座城市團結在一起 。
then i thought , " wait a minute , what am i doing ? "	然後我想: 「 等等 , 我在做什麼 ? 」
a book is not only a neat way of collecting and storing information , it's a series of layers .	書不光是收集和儲存資訊的便捷方法 , 它還是一系列的層次 。
i mean , you always peel one layer off another ; we think of them as pages , doing it a certain way .	我的意思是 , 你總是把一層一層剝離另一層 ; 我們認為他們是頁面 , 某種程度上 。
but think of them as layers . i mean , rome is a place of layers horizontal layers , vertical layers and i thought , well just peeling off a page would allow me to if i got you thinking about it the right way would allow me to sort of show you the depth of layers .	但把它們想成層次 。 我的意思是 , 羅馬是個有層次地層次的地方 , 垂直地層次 , 我心想 , 剝去書本就能讓我用正確的方式來呈現層次 。
the stucco on the walls of most of the buildings in rome covers the scars ; the scars of centuries of change as these structures have been adapted rather than being torn down .	羅馬大樓的泥土牆上覆蓋了許多疤痕 ; 數世紀以來的疤痕一直在改變 , 而不是被拆除 。
if i do a foldout page on the lefthand side and let you just unfold it , you see behind it what i mean by scar tissue .	如果我在左邊畫一個摺疊頁 , 你把它打開 , 就可以看到傷疤組織的背後 。
you can see that in 1635 , it became essential to make smaller windows because the bad guys were coming or whatever .	你可以看到 , 在1635年 , 製造小窗戶是很重要的 , 因為壞人要來了 , 諸如此類 。
adaptations all get buried under the stucco .	各式各樣的適應作用都被埋在了這個黏液之下 。
i could peel out a page of this palazzo to show you what's going on inside of it .	我可以把這張palazzo的頁面給你們看看裡面發生了什麼事 。
but more importantly , i could also show you what it looks like at the corner of one of those magnificent buildings with all the massive stone blocks , or the fake stone blocks done with brick and stucco , which is more often the case .	但 , 更重要的是 , 我也可以向各位展示 , 在這些雄偉建築的角落裡 , 那些巨大的石塊 , 或用磚頭和灰泥做成的假石塊 , 情況更加常見 。
so it becomes slightly threedimensional .	所以它有點立體 。
i could take you down one of those narrow little streets into one of those surprising piazzas by using a double gate fold double foldout page which , if you were like me reading a popup book as a child , you hopefully stick your head into .	我可以帶你走下一條狹窄的街道 , 進入一個令人驚訝的廣場 , 使用雙扇摺疊頁 , 如果你和我小時候一樣 , 正在讀一本彈出書 , 希望你把你的頭伸進去 。
you wrap the pages around your head and are in that piazza for that brief period of time .	你把你頭上的頁面 , 就在廣場那邊 , 就為了那個短暫的時間 。
and i've really not done anything much more complicated than make foldout pages .	我其實沒有做任何更複雜的摺疊頁 。
but then i thought , maybe i could be simpler here .	但接著我想 , 也許我可以簡單一點 。
let's look at the pantheon and the piazza della rotonda in front of it .	我們來看看萬神殿和前面的羅通達廣場 。
here's a book completely wide open .	這本書完全打開了 。
ok , if i don't open the book the whole way , if i just open it 90 degrees , we're looking down the front of the pantheon , and we're looking sort of at the top , more or less down on the square .	如果我不打開這本書 , 如果我只打開90度 , 我們就在俯視萬神廟的正面 , 而在圖片的最上方 , 或多或少是從平面往下看 。
and if i turn the book the other way , we're looking across the square at the front of the pantheon .	如果我把書換個角度 , 我們就在萬神廟的正面看著廣場 。
no foldouts , no tricks just a book that isn't open the whole way .	沒有摺疊 , 沒有把戲只是本沒有打開的書 。
that seemed promising . i thought , maybe i'll do it inside and i can even combine the foldouts with the only partially opened book .	這似乎很有希望 。 我想 , 也許我可以在裡面做 , 甚至可以把摺疊文字和唯一開放的書結合 。
so we get inside the pantheon and it grows and so on and so forth .	我們進入萬神廟內部 , 它會一直擴張下去 。
and i thought , maybe i'm on the right track , but it sort of lost its human quality .	我心想 , 也許我正走對路 , 但它似乎失去了人類的特質 。
so i went back to the notion of story , which is always a good thing to have if you're trying to get people to pay attention to a book and pick up information along the way .	所以 , 我回到故事的概念 , 它總是一件好事 , 如果你想要讓人注意讀書 , 並在過程中取得資訊 。
" pigeon's progress " struck me as a catchy title .	「 鴿子的進展 」 震撼了我 。
if it was a homing pigeon , it would be called " homer's odyssey . "	如果這是一隻同鴿子 , 它會被稱為 「 荷馬的奧德賽 」 。
but it was the journey of the . . .	但它是這趟旅程......
i mean , if a title works , use it . but it would be a journey that went through rome and showed all the things that i like about rome .	我的意思是 , 如果書名行得通 , 用它 。 但它會是一趟穿越羅馬的旅程 , 並展示我喜歡羅馬的一切 。
it's a pigeon sitting on top of a church .	這是教堂頂上的鴿子 。
goes off during the day and does normal pigeon stuff . comes back , the whole place is covered with scaffolding and green netting and there's no way this pigeon can get home .	白天飛走 , 做鴿子該做的事 。 回來了 , 整個地方被鷹架和綠色網路覆蓋 , 而這種鴿子無法回家 。
so it's a homeless pigeon now and it's going to have to find another place to live , and that allows me to go through my catalog of favorite things , and we start with the tall ones and so on .	所以這是一隻無家可歸的鴿子 , 它必須找另一個居住地 , 這使我能走過我喜愛的目錄 , 我們從較高的 , 以此類推 。
maybe it has to go back and live with family members ; that's not always a good thing , but it does sort of bring pigeons together again .	也許它必須回去和家人住在一起 ; 那不一定是好事 , 但會讓鴿子再聚在一起 。
and i thought , that's sort of interesting , but maybe there's a person who should be involved in this in some way .	我就想 , 這很有趣 , 但也許有一個人該以某種方式參與其中 。
so i kind of came up with this old guy who spends his life looking after sick pigeons .	所以我想出了一個老傢伙一輩子都在照顧生病的鴿子
he'll go anywhere to get them dangerous places and whatnot and they become really friends with this guy , and learn to do tricks for him and entertain him at lunchtime and stuff like that .	他會去任何地方幫他們找危險的地方 , 然後他們會和這個傢伙交朋友 , 學會了在午餐時間幫他玩耍 , 諸如此類的事情 。
there's a real bond that develops between this old man and these pigeons .	這種老人和這些鴿子之間確實有著真實的連結 。
but unfortunately he gets sick . he gets really sick at the end of the story .	但不幸的是 , 他生病了 , 病的很重 。
he's taught them to spell his name , which is aldo .	他教他們拼他的名字 , aldo 。
they show up one day after three or four days of not seeing him he lives in this little garret and they spell his name and fly around .	他們在一個三四天沒見到他之後的一天 , 他就住在一個小小的車庫裡 , 然後他們把他的名字吐出來 。
and he finally gets enough strength together to climb up the ladder onto the roof , and all the pigeons , a la red balloon , are there waiting for him and they carry him off over the walls of the city .	最後他得到了足夠的力量 , 爬上梯子到屋頂上 , 所有的鴿子 , 像是紅氣球 , 都在等著他 , 然後他們把他帶走 , 帶到城市的牆上 。
and i forgot to mention this: whenever he lost a pigeon , he would take that pigeon out beyond the walls of the city .	我忘了提到:只要他失去一隻鴿子 , 他就會把那隻鴿子帶到城市外面去 。
in the old roman custom , the dead were never buried within the walls .	在羅馬的傳統里 , 去世的人從來沒有被埋在牆壁中 。
and i thought that's a really cheery story .	我覺得這個故事真的很令人開心 。
. that's really going to go a long way .	這將會有很長的路要走 。
so anyway , i went through . . . and again , if packaging doesn't work and if the stories aren't going anywhere , i just come up with titles and hope that a title will sort of kick me off in the right direction .	總之 , 我經歷了...再一次 , 如果包裝不成功 , 如果故事不在哪裡 , 我只是想出了頭銜 , 希望頭銜會向正確的方向把我踢下去 。
and sometimes it does focus me enough and i'll even do a title page .	有時候它確實讓我花了夠多的精力 , 我甚至會寫一頁 。
so , these are all title pages that eventually led me to the solution i settled on , which is the story of a young woman who sends a message on a homing pigeon she lives outside the walls of the city of rome to someone in the city .	這些全部都是書名最終把我帶到解決方案上 , 這是一位年輕女子的故事 , 她在羅馬城外的羅馬城外送了一封信給在市區的某個人 。
and the pigeon is flying down above the appian way here .	而鴿子就在阿基安的上方向下飛
you can see the tombs and pines and so on and so forth along the way .	你可以看見墳墓、松果等等 。
if you see the red line , you are seeing the trail of the pigeon ; if you don't see the red line , you are the pigeon .	如果你看到紅線 , 你看到的是鴿子的軌跡 ; 如果你看不到紅線 , 你就是那隻鴿子 。
and it becomes necessary and possible , at this point , to try to convey what that sense would be like of flying over the city without actually moving .	在這個時點 , 飛越城市是必要和可行的 , 在這個時點 , 試著傳達出那種飛越城市的感覺 , 卻不用移動 。
past the pyramid of cestius these will seem very familiar to you , even if you haven't been to rome recently past the gatehouse .	過了賽斯提烏斯金字塔--你可能覺得很熟悉 , 即使你最近沒有去過羅馬 , 過了大門 。
this is something that's a little bit unusual .	這有點不尋常 。
this pigeon does something that most homing pigeons do not do: it takes the scenic route , which was a device that i felt was necessary to actually extend this book beyond about four pages .	這隻鴿子做了一件其它鴿子不做的事:它選擇了一條景觀路線 , 我覺得這個儀器是必須把這本書延伸到四頁以外的地方 。
so , we circle around the coliseum , past the church of santa maria in cosmedin and the temple of hercules towards the river .	所以 , 我們圍繞著哥倫斯周圍 , 超越了在宇宙中聖母堂和海克力士的教堂 , 朝著河流前進 。
we almost collide with the cornice of the palazzo farnese designed by michelangelo , built of stone taken from the coliseum narrow escape .	我們差點撞上了由米開朗基羅設計的帕拉索場角 , 用的石頭是從羅馬競技場拆下來的 。
we swoop down over the campo de' fiori .	我們俯瞰鮮花廣場
this is one of those things i show to my students because it's a complete bastardization a denial of any rules of perspective .	這是我給學生看的其中一件事 , 因為這是完全違背所有觀點的規則 。
the only rule of perspective that i think matters is if it looks believable , you've succeeded .	我認為唯一重要的透視法是 , 如果它看起來很可信 , 你就成功了 。
but you try and figure out where the vanishing points meet here ; a couple are on mars and a couple of others in cremona .	但你試著去找出哪個消失點相加 ; 火星上有些地方是火星上 , 另外一些是在克雷莫納 。
but into the piazza in front of santa maria della pace , where invariably a soccer game is going on , and we're hit by a soccer ball .	但在廣場上 , 在聖母堂前面 , 和平常差不多 , 總是有一場足球賽正在進行 , 我們被一顆足球擊中 。
now this is a terrible illustration of being hit by a soccer ball .	這是一個很糟糕的插圖 , 被足球擊中 。
i have all the pieces: there's santa maria della pace , there's a soccer ball , there's a little bit of a bird's wing nothing's happening , so i had to rethink it .	我有所有的作品:有聖誕老人賽跑步 , 有足球 , 有一點點鳥翅膀 , 什麼都沒有 , 所以我得要重新思考它 。
and if you do want to see santa maria della pace , these books are really flexible , incredibly interactive just turn it around and look at it the other way .	假如你想看到聖母瑪莉亞•德拉的步調 , 這些書是很有彈性的 , 交互作用的--只要把它反過來看 。
through the alley , we can see the impact is captured in the red line .	穿過巷子 , 我們可以看到它的影響以紅線表示 。
and then bird manages to pull itself together past this medieval tower one of the few remaining medieval towers towards the church of sant'agnese and around the dome looking down into piazza navona which we've already mentioned and seen and flown over a couple of times ; there's the bernini statue of the four rivers and then past the wonderful borromini sant'ivo , stopping just long enough on the 26foot diameter oculus of the pantheon to catch our breath .	接著 , 鳥類能夠拉過這座中世紀的塔樓 , 剩下的中世紀塔樓之一 , 前往聖阿凡尼斯教堂的中世紀塔樓 , 附近的大樓 , 往下看 , 我們已經提到過、看見、飛過數次了 ; 還有伯利尼雕像 , 在這四條河流的四條河流之中 , 然後經過神奇的博羅米諾休斯聖安諾司修道 , 已經足夠長達26英尺 。
and then we can swoop inside and around ; and because we're flying , we don't really have to worry about gravity at this particular moment in time , so this drawing can be oriented in any way on the page .	然後我們可以在裡面到處亂跑 , 因為我們在飛 , 我們不用在這個特定時刻擔心重力 , 讓這幅圖在任何時候都有方向 。
we get a little exuberant as we pass gesu ; it's not surprising to sort of mimic the architecture in this way .	飛過耶穌堂的時候 , 我們會變得很興奮 ; 用這種方式來模仿這個建築並不讓人意外 。
past the wonderful wall filled with the juxtaposition that i was talking about ; beautiful carvings set into the walls above the neon " ristorante " sign , and so on .	一面牆上填滿了我剛剛談到的 " 和 " 暴風雨 " 的 " 暴風雪 " 招牌上方的 " 美麗雕刻 " 牆壁...等等
and eventually , we arrive at the courtyard of the palazzo , which is our destination .	最終 , 我們抵達了palazzo的院子 , 那是我們的目的地 。
straight up through the courtyard into a little window into the attic , where somebody is working at the drawing board .	直接穿過庭院 , 進入一扇小窗戶 , 進入閣樓 , 有人在畫板上工作 。
he removes the message from the leg of the bird ; this is what it says .	他從鳥的腿上除去訊息 ; 這就是它說的 。
as we look at the drawing board , we see what he's working on is , in fact , a map of the journey that the pigeon has just taken , and the red line extends through all the sights .	當我們看著設計圖的板子時 , 我們看到他正在努力的 , 事實上 , 這是一隻鴿子踏上旅程的地圖 , 紅線穿過所有景象 。
and if you want the information , so that we complete this cycle of understanding , all you have to do is read these paragraphs .	如果你想要這些資訊 , 所以我們完成了這個理解的循環 , 你所要做的就是讀這些段落 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
mit researcher skylar tibbits works on selfassembly the idea that instead of building something , we can create materials that build themselves , much the way a strand of dna zips itself together . it's a big concept at early stages ; tibbits shows us three inthelab projects that hint at what a selfassembling future might look like .	麻省理工學院的騎士們自行組裝這個想法:與其建造一些東西 , 我們可以創造出一些材料 , 像是dna鏈接自行組合的方式 。 這是一個在初期很大的概念 ; tibbits告訴我們三個項目 , 它暗示著一個自我組裝的未來會是什麼樣子 。
skylar tibbits: can we make things that make themselves ?	高空的tibbit:我們能否做出會自己的東西 ?
today i'd like to show you the future of the way we make things .	今天 , 我想向各位展示我們未來製造東西的方式 。
i believe that soon our buildings and machines will be selfassembling , replicating and repairing themselves .	我相信 , 我們的建築物和機器很快就會變成自我組裝、複製和修復 。
so i'm going to show you what i believe is the current state of manufacturing , and then compare that to some natural systems .	所以 , 我將展示我相信是目前的製造業狀態 , 然後比較一些自然生態系統 。
so in the current state of manufacturing , we have skyscrapers two and a half years [of assembly time] , 500 , 000 to a million parts , fairly complex , new , exciting technologies in steel , concrete , glass .	在目前的製造業狀態 , 我們有摩天大樓--兩年半的時間 , 50萬至一百萬個部分 , 相當複雜、嶄新、令人興奮的技術 , 鋼鐵、混凝土、玻璃 。
we have exciting machines that can take us into space five years [of assembly time] , 2 . 5 million parts .	我們有令人興奮的機器 , 能帶我們進入太空-250萬個部分 。
but on the other side , if you look at the natural systems , we have proteins that have two million types , can fold in 10 , 000 nanoseconds , or dna with three billion base pairs we can replicate in roughly an hour .	但另一方面 , 如果你觀察自然生態系統 , 我們有兩百萬類型的蛋白質 , 可以在一萬納秒中摺疊 , 或dna有三十億個鹼基對 , 我們可以在大約一個小時複製 。
so there's all of this complexity in our natural systems , but they're extremely efficient , far more efficient than anything we can build , far more complex than anything we can build .	所以 , 我們的自然生態系統有著複雜性 , 但它們非常有效率 , 遠比任何我們能建立的東西都更有效率 。 遠比任何我們能建立的任何東西都複雜 。
they're far more efficient in terms of energy .	在能源方面 , 它們的效率更高 。
they hardly ever make mistakes .	他們幾乎不會犯錯 。
and they can repair themselves for longevity .	它們可以修復自己長壽 。
so there's something super interesting about natural systems .	所以自然生態系統有一個超級有趣的東西 。
and if we can translate that into our built environment , then there's some exciting potential for the way that we build things .	如果我們可以將它轉化為我們的建築環境 , 那我們就有了令人興奮的潛力 , 可以用來建設東西 。
and i think the key to that is selfassembly .	我認為關鍵是自我組裝 。
so if we want to utilize selfassembly in our physical environment , i think there's four key factors .	所以如果我們想要利用我們的物理環境中的自組裝 , 我認為有四個關鍵因素 。
the first is that we need to decode all of the complexity of what we want to build so our buildings and machines .	第一 , 我們需要解碼所有我們想建造的複雜性 , 這樣我們的建築物和機器 。
and we need to decode that into simple sequences basically the dna of how our buildings work .	我們需要解碼成簡單的序列基本上就是我們建築物的運作方式的dna 。
then we need programmable parts that can take that sequence and use that to fold up , or reconfigure .	接著 , 我們需要可編程的部分 , 可以把序列拿起來 , 再用它來折疊 , 或重新配置 。
we need some energy that's going to allow that to activate , allow our parts to be able to fold up from the program .	我們需要一些能源 , 讓它能夠活化 , 讓我們的部分能夠折疊程式 。
and we need some type of error correction redundancy to guarantee that we have successfully built what we want .	我們需要某種類型的修正冗餘 , 來保證我們已經成功地建造出我們想要的 。
so i'm going to show you a number of projects that my colleagues and i at mit are working on to achieve this selfassembling future .	所以我要向你們展示一些項目 , 是我在麻省理工學院的同事和我正在努力實現這個自我組裝的未來 。
the first two are the macrobot and decibot .	首先是macrobot和decibot 。
so these projects are largescale reconfigurable robots 8 ft . , 12 ft . long proteins .	這些項目都是大型的可重組的機器人--8英尺 , 12英尺長的蛋白質 。
they're embedded with mechanical electrical devices , sensors .	它們與機電設備 , 傳感器嵌入 。
you decode what you want to fold up into , into a sequence of angles so negative 120 , negative 120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , negative 120 something like that ; so a sequence of angles , or turns , and you send that sequence through the string .	解碼你想要摺疊什麼 , 形成一連串的角度--負120 , 負120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , 負120--類似的東西 ; 所以一連串的角度 , 或者是轉動 , 你將這個序列透過弦發送出去 。
each unit takes its message so negative 120 it rotates to that , checks if it got there and then passes it to its neighbor .	每個單位都需要它的消息--負120 。 它會旋轉 , 檢查它是否到了那裡 , 然後把它傳遞給它的鄰居 。
so these are the brilliant scientists , engineers , designers that worked on this project .	這些傑出的科學家 , 工程師 , 設計師 , 在這個項目上工作 。
and i think it really brings to light: is this really scalable ?	我認為它真正的帶出了光線:這真的很可擴展嗎 ?
i mean , thousands of dollars , lots of man hours made to make this eightfoot robot .	我的意思是 , 數千美元 , 數以千計時數製造這8英尺的機器人 。
can we really scale this up ? can we really embed robotics into every part ?	我們真的能把這個規模做大嗎 ? 我們真的能把機器人嵌入每個部分嗎 ?
the next one questions that and looks at passive nature , or passively trying to have reconfiguration programmability .	下一個問題 , 關注的是被動天性 , 或被動試圖重新配置可編程 。
but it goes a step further , and it tries to have actual computation .	但這又更進一步 , 並嘗試實際的計算 。
it basically embeds the most fundamental building block of computing , the digital logic gate , directly into your parts .	它基本上是最根本的計算 , 數位邏輯 , 直接嵌入到你的零件中 。
so this is a nand gate .	這是一個nand邏輯閘口 。
you have one tetrahedron which is the gate that's going to do your computing , and you have two input tetrahedrons .	你有一個正四面體 , 就是門 , 它會做你的計算 , 你有兩個輸入的正四面體 。
one of them is the input from the user , as you're building your bricks .	其中一個是使用者的輸入 , 當你在做磚塊時 。
the other one is from the previous brick that was placed .	另一種是從以前被放置的磚 。
and then it gives you an output in 3d space .	它會讓你在三維空間中得到輸出 。
so what this means is that the user can start plugging in what they want the bricks to do .	這意味著用戶可以開始連接他們想要的磚塊 。
it computes on what it was doing before and what you said you wanted it to do .	它計算它以前的行為 , 你說你想要它做的事 。
and now it starts moving in threedimensional space so up or down .	現在它開始在三維空間中移動--向上或向下 。
so on the lefthand side , [1 , 1] input equals 0 output , which goes down .	在左邊 , [1 , 1]輸入等於輸出0 , 結果會下降 。
on the righthand side , [0 , 0] input is a 1 output , which goes up .	在右手邊 , [0 , 0]輸入1輸出 , 它就會上升 。
and so what that really means is that our structures now contain the blueprints of what we want to build .	這意味著我們的結構現在包含了我們要建造的藍圖 。
so they have all of the information embedded in them of what was constructed .	他們擁有所有這些建構出來的資訊
so that means that we can have some form of selfreplication .	這意味著我們可以有某種形式的自我複製 。
in this case i call it selfguided replication , because your structure contains the exact blueprints .	在這個案例中 , 我稱它為自我導向的複製 , 因為你的結構包含著確切的藍圖 。
if you have errors , you can replace a part .	如果你有錯誤 , 你可以更換零件 。
all the local information is embedded to tell you how to fix it .	所有局部的訊息都嵌入在告訴你們如何解決它 。
so you could have something that climbs along and reads it and can output at one to one .	所以你可以擁有攀登的東西 , 讀取它 , 然後在一對一輸出 。
it's directly embedded ; there's no external instructions .	它直接嵌入 ; 沒有任何外部的指令 。
so the last project i'll show is called biased chains , and it's probably the most exciting example that we have right now of passive selfassembly systems .	我將展示的最後一個項目叫做偏見鏈 , 它可能是我們現在被動自組裝系統中最令人興奮的例子 。
so it takes the reconfigurability and programmability and makes it a completely passive system .	需要重新配置和可編程 , 並讓它成為一個完全被動的系統 。
so basically you have a chain of elements .	基本上你有一個元素鏈 。
each element is completely identical , and they're biased .	每個元素都完全相同 , 偏見也相同 。
so each chain , or each element , wants to turn right or left .	所以每一條鏈、每一個元素 , 都想要向右或左轉 。
so as you assemble the chain , you're basically programming it .	所以當你組裝鏈時 , 你基本上是在編程 。
you're telling each unit if it should turn right or left .	你告訴每個單位是否應該向左轉或向左轉 。
so when you shake the chain , it then folds up into any configuration that you've programmed in so in this case , a spiral , or in this case , two cubes next to each other .	當你搖晃鏈 , 它會折疊成任何你編程的配置--在這個案例中 , 一個螺旋 , 或這個例子中 , 兩個彼此相鄰的立方體 。
so you can basically program any threedimensional shape or onedimensional , twodimensional up into this chain completely passively .	基本上你可以設計任何立體形狀 , 或單面的 , 二維 , 完全被動地進入這條鏈 。
so what does this tell us about the future ?	所以 , 這告訴我們什麼是未來的意義 ?
i think that it's telling us that there's new possibilities for selfassembly , replication , repair in our physical structures , our buildings , machines .	我想這告訴我們有新的自我組裝、複製、修復我們實體結構、建築物、機器的新可能性 。
there's new programmability in these parts .	在這些地區有新的可編程 。
and from that you have new possibilities for computing .	從而有新的計算可能性 。
we'll have spatial computing .	我們將有空間計算 。
imagine if our buildings , our bridges , machines , all of our bricks could actually compute .	想像一下 , 如果我們的建築物、橋樑、機器 , 所有磚塊都能計算出來 。
that's amazing parallel and distributed computing power , new design possibilities .	這是驚人的並行和分散式的計算能力 , 新的設計可能性 。
so it's exciting potential for this .	所以這是令人興奮的潛力 。
so i think these projects i've showed here are just a tiny step towards this future , if we implement these new technologies for a new selfassembling world .	所以我認為我所展示的這些項目 , 只是通往未來的一小步 , 如果我們實施這些新的自組裝世界的技術 。
we've been to the moon , we've mapped the continents , we've even been to the deepest point in the ocean twice . what's left for the next generation to explore ? biologist and explorer nathan wolfe suggests this answer: almost everything . and we can start , he says , with the world of the unseeably small .	我們去過月球 , 繪製了大陸地圖 , 我們甚至去過兩次海底最深的地點 。 下一代我們要探討的是什麼 ? 生物學家和內森•沃爾夫提出這個答案:幾乎所有 。 我們可以開始 , 他說 , 和那些不可思議的小世界 。
biodiversity , exploration , microbiology , science	生物多樣性、探索、微生物學、科學 ,
nathan wolfe: what's left to explore ?	內森•沃爾夫:還有什麼要探索 ?
recently i visited beloit , wisconsin .	最近我去了威斯康辛州的貝洛伊特市 。
and i was there to honor a great 20th century explorer , roy chapman andrews .	目的是為了表揚一位偉大的20世紀探險家羅伊.查普曼安德魯斯
during his time at the american museum of natural history , andrews led a range of expeditions to uncharted regions , like here in the gobi desert .	安德魯斯在美國自然歷史博物館 , 帶領一系列的考察隊伍 , 前往未知的區域 , 像是這裏的戈壁沙漠 。
he was quite a figure .	他是個不錯的人物 。
he was later , it's said , the basis of the indiana jones character .	後來有人說是印第安那瓊斯這個角色的基礎 。
and when i was in beloit , wisconsin , i gave a public lecture to a group of middle school students .	當我在威斯康辛州的貝洛伊特市時 , 我給一群中學生公開演說 。
and i'm here to tell you , if there's anything more intimidating than talking here at ted , it'll be trying to hold the attention of a group of a thousand 12yearolds for a 45minute lecture .	我在這裡告訴各位 , 如果有比ted這裡演講更嚇人的話 , 它會試著把一千個12歲孩子的注意力集中在45分鐘的演講中 。
at the end of the lecture they asked a number of questions , but there was one that's really stuck with me since then .	在演講尾聲時 , 他們問了幾個問題 , 但從那之後 , 有一個問題深深地困擾著我 。
there was a young girl who stood up , and she asked the question: " where should we explore ? "	有一個年輕女孩站起來 , 她問了這個問題: 「 我們要去哪裡探索 ? 」
i think there's a sense that many of us have that the great age of exploration on earth is over , that for the next generation they're going to have to go to outer space or the deepest oceans in order to find something significant to explore .	我想有很多人覺得偉大的地球探索年代已經結束了 , 對下一代來說 , 他們將必須去外太空或深海 , 才能找到重要的探索 。
but is that really the case ?	但真的是這樣嗎 ?
is there really nowhere significant for us to explore left here on earth ?	地球上真的沒有剩下的重要地方可以讓我們探索嗎 ?
it sort of made me think back to one of my favorite explorers in the history of biology .	這有點讓我回想起生物史上我最喜歡的探險家之一 。
this is an explorer of the unseen world , martinus beijerinck .	這是個未知世界的探險家 , martinusbeijerinck 。
so beijerinck set out to discover the cause of tobacco mosaic disease .	beijerinck一開始要找出菸草鑲嵌疾病的成因 。
what he did is he took the infected juice from tobacco plants and he would filter it through smaller and smaller filters .	他所做的是取出菸草植物的受感染汁液 , 再用更小的過濾器過濾 。
and he reached the point where he felt that there must be something out there that was smaller than the smallest forms of life that were ever known bacteria , at the time .	他感覺到一定有什麼東西比當時所知的最小型的生命形式還要小 。
he came up with a name for his mystery agent .	他為他神秘的媒介命了一個名字 。
he called it the virus latin for " poison . "	他稱之為 「 毒藥 」 。
and in uncovering viruses , beijerinck really opened this entirely new world for us .	在揭露病毒的過程中 , beijerinck為我們開啟了一個全新的世界 。
we now know that viruses make up the majority of the genetic information on our planet , more than the genetic information of all other forms of life combined .	我們現在知道病毒構成地球上絕大部分的基因信息 , 遠超過所有其他形式的生命體的基因信息 。
and obviously there's been tremendous practical applications associated with this world things like the eradication of smallpox , the advent of a vaccine against cervical cancer , which we now know is mostly caused by human papillomavirus .	很明顯地 , 這個世界有著巨大的實際應用──像是天花的消滅 , 預防子宮頸癌疫苗的出現 , 我們現在知道主要是由人類乳突病毒所引起的 。
and beijerinck's discovery , this was not something that occurred 500 years ago .	而beijerinck的發現不是500年前發生的
it was a little over 100 years ago that beijerinck discovered viruses .	beijerinck在100多年前發現了病毒 。
so basically we had automobiles , but we were unaware of the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	基本上 , 我們已經有了汽車 , 但我們還沒有意識到我們星球上大多數基因信息的生命形式 。
we now have these amazing tools to allow us to explore the unseen world things like deep sequencing , which allow us to do much more than just skim the surface and look at individual genomes from a particular species , but to look at entire metagenomes , the communities of teeming microorganisms in , on and around us and to document all of the genetic information in these species .	我們現在有這些驚人的工具 , 讓我們可以探索未知的世界--像是深度定序 , 讓我們可以做得比只看到表面還要多 , 還多 , 看看個別的物種的基因組 , 看看整個宏基因組 , 包含微生物群落的群落 , 在我們周圍 , 以及記錄這些物種中所有的基因信息 。
we can apply these techniques to things from soil to skin and everything in between .	我們可以將這些技術應用在從土壤到皮膚之間的所有東西上 。
in my organization we now do this on a regular basis to identify the causes of outbreaks that are unclear exactly what causes them .	在我的組織裡 , 我們定期做這種事情 , 找出疫情爆發的成因 , 正是造成疫情的原因 。
and just to give you a sense of how this works , imagine that we took a nasal swab from every single one of you .	為了讓你們更了解這如何運作 , 想像一下 , 我們取了你們每個人的鼻腔標本 。
and this is something we commonly do to look for respiratory viruses like influenza .	我們通常會去尋找呼吸道疾病的病毒 , 像是流感病毒 。
the first thing we would see is a tremendous amount of genetic information .	首先我們會看到非常大量的基因信息 。
and if we started looking into that genetic information , we'd see a number of usual suspects out there of course , a lot of human genetic information , but also bacterial and viral information , mostly from things that are completely harmless within your nose .	如果我們開始研究這些基因信息 , 當然 , 我們會看到一些普通的嫌疑犯 , 當然 , 很多的人類基因信息 , 還有細菌和病毒信息 , 大部分是來自你鼻子中完全無害的東西 。
but we'd also see something very , very surprising .	但我們也看到了令人非常驚訝的事 。
as we started to look at this information , we would see that about 20 percent of the genetic information in your nose doesn't match anything that we've ever seen before no plant , animal , fungus , virus or bacteria .	當我們開始觀察這些資訊時 , 我們會發現 , 你鼻子裡大約有20%的基因信息與我們以前從未見過的東西完全吻合 , 不管是植物、動物、真菌、病毒 , 或細菌 。
basically we have no clue what this is .	基本上我們不知道這是什麼 。
and for the small group of us who actually study this kind of data , a few of us have actually begun to call this information biological dark matter .	對於我們這些研究這種數據的小組 , 實際上我們當中有些人開始稱之為 「 資訊生物暗物質 」 。
we know it's not anything that we've seen before ; it's sort of the equivalent of an uncharted continent right within our own genetic information .	我們知道它不是任何我們以前見過的東西 ; 它有點像是我們基因信息中未知的大陸 。
and there's a lot of it .	而且還有很多 。
if you think 20 percent of genetic information in your nose is a lot of biological dark matter , if we looked at your gut , up to 40 or 50 percent of that information is biological dark matter .	如果你認為你鼻子中20%的基因信息是很多的生物暗物質 , 如果我們觀察你的腸子 , 高達40%到50%的信息是生物暗物質 。
and even in the relatively sterile blood , around one to two percent of this information is dark matter can't be classified , can't be typed or matched with anything we've seen before .	即使是在相對比較下無菌的血液中 , 大約有1%到2%的信息是暗物質無法被分類 , 無法與我們所見的任何東西配對或配對 。
at first we thought that perhaps this was artifact .	一開始 , 我們以為這也許是人工製品 。
these deep sequencing tools are relatively new .	這些深度排序的技術還相當新 。
but as they become more and more accurate , we've determined that this information is a form of life , or at least some of it is a form of life .	但當他們愈來愈準確 , 我們已經確定這種信息是生命的一種形式 , 至少是生命的一種形式 。
and while the hypotheses for explaining the existence of biological dark matter are really only in their infancy , there's a very , very exciting possibility that exists: that buried in this life , in this genetic information , are signatures of as of yet unidentified life .	雖然解釋生物暗物質存在的假設都還在初期階段 , 還是有一個非常令人興奮的可能性存在:那就是埋藏在生命裡 , 基因資訊是還未被辨識出生命的特徵 。
that as we explore these strings of a's , t's , c's and g's , we may uncover a completely new class of life that , like beijerinck , will fundamentally change the way that we think about the nature of biology .	當我們探索一連串的a、t、c、g時 , 我們可能會發現一種全新的生命類型 , 像beijerinck一樣 , 它會從根本改變我們對生物學本質的看法 。
that perhaps will allow us to identify the cause of a cancer that afflicts us or identify the source of an outbreak that we aren't familiar with or perhaps create a new tool in molecular biology .	那或許能讓我們找出折磨我們的癌症的原因 , 或是找出我們不熟悉的爆發病源頭 , 或是在分子生物學中創造出新的工具 。
i'm pleased to announce that , along with colleagues at stanford and caltech and ucsf , we're currently starting an initiative to explore biological dark matter for the existence of new forms of life .	我很高興地宣布 , 和史丹佛大學、加州理工學院和加州大學舊金山分校的同事一起 , 我們目前正開始著手探索生物暗物質 , 以尋求新生命形式的存在 。
a little over a hundred years ago , people were unaware of viruses , the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	大約一百多年前 , 人們還沒有意識到病毒 , 這種生命形式就是我們星球上大部分基因信息的生物 。
a hundred years from now , people may marvel that we were perhaps completely unaware of a new class of life that literally was right under our noses .	一百年後 , 人們可能會驚訝於我們完全不知道一種新的生命類型 , 真的就在我們的眼前 。
it's true , we may have charted all the continents on the planet and we may have discovered all the mammals that are out there , but that doesn't mean that there's nothing left to explore on earth .	的確 , 我們可能記錄了地球上所有的大陸 , 我們可能已經發現了所有的哺乳類動物 , 但這並不表示地球上沒有其它可探索的地方 。
beijerinck and his kind provide an important lesson for the next generation of explorers people like that young girl from beloit , wisconsin .	beijerinck和他的同類提供了重要的啟示給下一代來自威斯康辛州的貝洛伊特市的探險家 。
and i think if we phrase that lesson , it's something like this: don't assume that what we currently think is out there is the full story .	如果我們要說出這個啟示 , 應該是像這樣子的:不要假設我們目前認為的全部都是這樣 。
go after the dark matter in whatever field you choose to explore .	追求你選擇要探索的領域中的暗物質 。
there are unknowns all around us and they're just waiting to be discovered .	我們周圍有未知的事物 , 它們只是等待被發現 。
legendary scientist david deutsch puts theoretical physics on the back burner to discuss a more urgent matter: the survival of our species . the first step toward solving global warming , he says , is to admit that we have a problem .	傳說中的科學家大衛•德•德施將理論物理放在柱子上 , 討論一個更急迫的問題:我們人類的生存 。 解決全球暖化的第一步 , 他說 , 是承認我們有問題 。
climate change , cosmos , culture , environment , global issues , physics , science , technology , universe	氣候變遷、宇宙、文化、環境、全球議題、物理、科學、科技、宇宙等 。
david deutsch on our place in the cosmos	大衛•狄尤斯在我們所在的宇宙中 , 擺在我們在宇宙中的位置 。
we've been told to go out on a limb and say something surprising .	有人叫我們踏上肢體 , 說出令人驚訝的事 。
so i'll try and do that , but i want to start with two things that everyone already knows .	我會試著這麼做 , 但我想要從大家都知道的兩件事開始 。
and the first one , in fact , is something that has been known for most of recorded history .	第一 , 事實上 , 是有史以來被記錄下來最多的事件 。
and that is that the planet earth , or the solar system , or our environment or whatever , is uniquely suited to sustain our evolution or creation , as it used to be thought and our present existence , and most important , our future survival .	那就是 , 地球、太陽系、太陽系 , 或環境等等 , 都是獨一無二的適合人類演化或創造 , 因為它曾經是我們現在的思想和現在的存在 , 最重要的是我們未來的生存 。
nowadays this idea has a dramatic name: spaceship earth .	如今這個想法有個戲劇化的名字:太空船地球 。
and the idea there is that outside the spaceship , the universe is implacably hostile , and inside is all we have , all we depend on .	這裡的概念是 , 在太空船之外 , 宇宙是很有敵意的 , 內部是我們唯一依賴的 。
and we only get the one chance: if we mess up our spaceship , we've got nowhere else to go .	我們只有一個機會:如果我們搞砸我們的太空船 , 我們別無選擇 。
now , the second thing that everyone already knows is that contrary to what was believed for most of human history , human beings are not , in fact , the hub of existence .	第二件大家都知道的事 , 與人類歷史上大多數人所相信的相反 , 人類其實並不是存在的中心 。
as stephen hawking famously said , we're just a chemical scum on the surface of a typical planet that's in orbit around a typical star , which is on the outskirts of a typical galaxy , and so on .	正如史蒂芬•霍金說過的 , 我們只是一個典型的星球表面的化學污垢 , 它繞著一個典型的恆星運行 , 位於一個典型的銀河系的邊緣等等 。
now the first of those two things that everyone knows is kind of saying that we're at a very untypical place , uniquely suited and so on , and the second one is saying that we're at a typical place .	第一件大家都知道的事 , 就是說我們正處於一個非常不典型的地方 , 獨一無二的適合等等 。 第二件事是說我們正處於一個典型的地方 。
and especially if you regard these two as deep truths to live by and to inform your life decisions , then they seem a little bit to conflict with each other .	尤其是如果你把這兩件事當作生命中深刻的真理 , 並以此作為生命決策的依據 , 那麼它們似乎會互相矛盾 。
but that doesn't prevent them from both being completely false .	但這並不能阻止他們兩者都是完全錯誤的 。
and they are . so let me start with the second one: typical . well is this a typical place ? well , let's look around , you know , and look in a random direction , and we see a wall , and chemical scum and that's not typical of the universe at all .	這些是的 。 讓我從第二個故事開始:典型的 , 這是典型的嗎 ? 嗯 , 讓我們看看四周 , 隨機的方向 , 我們看到一面牆 , 化學污垢 , 這一點也不典型的宇宙 。
all you've got to do is go a few hundred miles in that same direction and look back , and you won't see any walls or chemical scum at all all you see is a blue planet . and if you go further than that , you'll see the sun , the solar system , and the stars and so on .	你只要朝同一個方向走幾百英里 , 然後往回看 , 你完全看不到任何牆或化學污垢 。 如果你走得更遠 , 你會看到太陽、太陽系 , 和恆星等等 。
but that's still not typical of the universe , because stars come in galaxies .	但這仍然不是宇宙的典型 , 因為恆星是銀河系的 。
and most places in the universe , a typical place in the universe , is nowhere near any galaxies .	宇宙中的大部份地方 , 宇宙中一個典型的地方 , 都不在任何一個星系附近 。
so let's go out further , till we're outside the galaxy , and look back , and yeah , there's the huge galaxy with spiral arms laid out in front of us .	讓我們再往外走 , 直到我們到了外面的銀河 , 然後再往回看 , 巨大的銀河系 , 螺旋手臂就在我們面前 。
and at this point we've come 100 , 000 light years from here .	到目前為止 , 我們已經從這裡走了十萬光年 。
but we're still nowhere near a typical place in the universe .	但我們離宇宙中典型的地方還很遠 。
to get to a typical place , you've got to go 1 , 000 times as far as that into intergalactic space .	要到達典型的星系間空間 , 就要再走一千倍的距離 。
and so what does that look like ? typical .	那會是什麼樣子 ? 典型的 。
what does a typical place in the universe look like ?	宇宙中典型的地方長什麼樣子 ?
well , at enormous expense , ted has arranged a highresolution immersion virtual reality rendering of intergalactic space the view from intergalactic space .	ted大費的排列出一個高清晰的星系間空間的虛擬實境呈現──星系間空間的影像 。
so can we have the lights off , please , so we can see it ?	我們能把燈關掉嗎 ? 拜託 , 我們看得到嗎 ?
well , not quite , not quite perfect you see , in intergalactic space intergalactic space is completely dark , pitch dark .	其實 , 不太完美--星系間空間--星系間空間是完全黑暗的 , 漆黑的 , 漆黑的 。
it's so dark that if you were to be looking at the nearest star to you , and that star were to explode as a supernova , and you were to be staring directly at it at the moment when its light reached you , you still wouldn't be able to see even a glimmer .	它是如此的黑暗 , 如果你看著離你最近的恆星 , 那顆恆星爆炸成超新星 , 當光線接觸到你時 , 你要直視它 , 你仍然無法看到明亮的光芒 。
that's how big and how dark the universe is .	宇宙就是如此的巨大和黑暗 。
and that's despite the fact that a supernova is so bright , so brilliant an event , that it would kill you stone dead at a range of several light years .	儘管事實上超新星是如此的明亮 , 如此的傑出 , 它會在數光年的範圍內殺死你 。
and yet from intergalactic space , it's so far away you wouldn't even see it .	但從星系間的空間來看 , 它是如此的遙遠 , 你甚至無法看到它 。
it's also very cold out there less than three degrees above absolute zero .	那裡也非常冷 , 溫度低於絕對零度三度 。
and it's very empty . the vacuum there is one million times less dense than the highest vacuum that our best technology on earth can currently create . so that's how different a typical place is from this place .	那裡空無一物 。 真空的密度比我們現在地球上最好的科技所能創造出來的密度要少一百萬倍 。 這就是一個典型的地方 。
and that is how untypical this place is .	這就是這個地方的不典型 。
so can we have the lights back on please ? thank you .	所以 , 我們能把燈光打回來嗎 ? 謝謝 。
now how do we know about an environment that's so far away , and so different , and so alien , from anything we're used to ?	我們怎麼知道離我們這麼遠的環境 ? 如此不同 , 如此陌生 , 和我們習以為常的環境 ?
well , the earth our environment , in the form of us is creating knowledge .	地球──我們的環境 , 以我們形式來創造知識 。
well , what does that mean ? well , look out even further than we've just been i mean from here , with a telescope and you'll see things that look like stars .	那是什麼意思呢 ? 看看遠比我們剛才所說的更遠--從這裡開始 , 利用望遠鏡--你會看到像恆星的東西 。
they're called " quasars . " quasars originally meant quasistellar object .	它們被稱為 「 類星體 」 , 原始的意思是類星體 。
which means things that look a bit like stars . but they're not stars .	這意味著那些看起來有點像恆星的東西 , 但不是恆星 。
and we know what they are . billions of years ago , and billions of light years away , the material at the center of a galaxy collapsed towards a supermassive black hole .	我們知道它們是什麼 。 數十億年前 , 數十億光年之外 , 銀河系中心的物質朝著超大質量的黑洞倒塌 。
and then intense magnetic fields directed some of the energy of that gravitational collapse . and some of the matter , back out in the form of tremendous jets which illuminated lobes with the brilliance of i think it's a trillion suns .	然後強烈的磁場引導了重力崩潰的一些能量 。 其中的一些物質 , 以極大的噴射流形成我認為是萬億個太陽的光輝 。
now , the physics of the human brain could hardly be more unlike the physics of such a jet .	人類大腦的物理現象可能和噴射流的物理相差甚遠 。
we couldn't survive for an instant in it . language breaks down when trying to describe what it would be like in one of those jets .	我們無法在那瞬間存活下來 。 當語言試圖描述噴射流中的狀況時 , 語言會崩塌 。
it would be a bit like experiencing a supernova explosion , but at pointblank range and for millions of years at a time .	會有點像經歷一次超新星的爆炸 , 但在近距離發生了數百萬年 。
and yet , that jet happened in precisely such a way that billions of years later , on the other side of the universe , some bit of chemical scum could accurately describe , and model , and predict , and explain , above all there's your reference what was happening there , in reality .	然而 , 這種噴射流發生得如此精確 , 以至於數十億年後 , 在宇宙的另一邊 , 一些化學污垢可以準確地描述和模型 , 和預測 , 和解釋 , 最重要的是 , 在現實中 , 你的參考是你的認知 。
the one physical system , the brain , contains an accurate working model of the other the quasar .	一個物理系統 , 大腦 , 包含了另外一個模型的準確工作模型 。
not just a superficial image of it , though it contains that as well , but an explanatory model , embodying the same mathematical relationships and the same causal structure .	不只是表面的圖像 , 雖然它也包含這個圖像 , 還有一個解釋性的模型 , 具體呈現出相同的數學關係和相同的因果結構 。
now that is knowledge . and if that weren't amazing enough , the faithfulness with which the one structure resembles the other is increasing with time . that is the growth of knowledge .	這就是知識 。 如果這還不夠神奇 , 一個結構相似 , 另一條的信念就會隨著時間增加 。 這就是知識的增長 。
so , the laws of physics have this special property .	物理定律有這種特殊的特性 。
that physical objects , as unlike each other as they could possibly be , can nevertheless embody the same mathematical and causal structure and to do it more and more so over time .	這個實體物體 , 儘可能彼此不同 , 但卻仍然可以體現相同的數學和因果結構 , 隨著時間越來越多 。
so we are a chemical scum that is different . this chemical scum has universality .	所以我們是一種不一樣的化學污垢 。 這種化學污垢有普遍性 。
its structure contains , with everincreasing precision , the structure of everything . this place , and not other places in the universe , is a hub which contains within itself the structural and causal essence of the whole of the rest of physical reality . and so , far from being insignificant , the fact that the laws of physics allow this , or even mandate that this can happen , is one of the most important things about the physical world .	它的結構有著持續精準的增長 , 一切的結構 。 這個地方 , 而非宇宙的其它地方 , 是包含在內的一個中心 , 包含著整個物理實體的結構與因果關係 。 所以 , 與物理定律的不微不足道 , 物理定律允許這個定律 , 甚至行使它發生的 , 是物理世界中最重要的事情之一 。
now how does the solar system and our environment , in the form of us acquire this special relationship with the rest of the universe ?	那麼太陽系和環境是如何形成的呢 ? 以我們人類的形式獲得這個與宇宙其他部分的特殊關係 ?
well , one thing that's true about stephen hawking's remark i mean , it is true , but it's the wrong emphasis . one thing that's true about it is that it doesn't do it with any special physics . there's no special dispensation , no miracles involved . it does it simply with three things that we have here in abundance .	史蒂芬•霍金的評論中 , 有一點是正確的 , 但那是錯誤的強調 。 有一點是正確的 。 它沒有任何特殊的物理原理 。 沒有特殊的放寬 , 沒有奇蹟涉入 。 它有三件我們現今擁有的事物 。
one of them is matter , because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing . information processing is computation , computation requires a computer there's no known way of making a computer without matter .	其中一個是物質 , 因為知識的增長是資訊處理的一種形式 。 信息處理就是計算 , 計算需要一台電腦 , 根本不知道如何讓電腦沒有物質來製造電腦 。
we also need energy to make the computer , and most important , to make the media in effect onto which we record the knowledge that we discover .	我們還需要能量來製造電腦 , 最重要的是要讓媒體能夠對我們所發現的知識進行影響 。
and then thirdly , less tangible , but just as essential for the openended creation of knowledge , of explanations , is evidence .	第三 , 較不可能實現 , 但對於開放式知識和解釋的創造 , 也是必要的 , 就是證據 。
now , our environment is inundated with evidence .	我們的環境中充滿了證據 。
we happen to get round to testing , let's say , newton's law of gravity about 300 years ago .	我們碰巧要測試的時候 , 比如 , 牛頓的重力定律大約在三百年前 。
but the evidence that we used to do that was falling down on every square meter of the earth for billions of years before that , and will continue to fall on for billions of years afterwards . and the same is true for all the other sciences .	但 , 我們過去做得到的證據 , 在地球上數十億年前 , 已經落下了每平方公尺的面積 , 之後還會再繼續下去數十億年 。 其他的科學也一樣 。
as far as we know , evidence to discover the most fundamental truths of all the sciences is here just for the taking on our planet .	據我們所知 , 發掘所有科學中最根本的真理的證據就在我們星球上 。
our location is saturated with evidence , and also with matter and energy .	我們所在之處充滿了證據 , 也充滿了物質和能量 。
out in intergalactic space , those three prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge are at their lowest possible supply .	在星系間空間中 , 這三個創造開放式知識的前題是他們最低的供應量 。
as i said , it's empty ; it's cold ; and it's dark out there . or is it ?	就像我說的 , 那裡是空的 , 那裡是冷的 , 那裡是暗的 , 還是 ?
now actually , that's just another parochial misconception .	事實上 , 這只是另一個狹義的誤解 。
because imagine a cube out there in intergalactic space , the same size as our home , the solar system . now that cube is very empty by human standards , but that still means that it contains over a million tons of matter .	想像在星系間空間中的一個立方體 , 和我們的房子大小一樣 , 太陽系 。 現在這個立方體是以人類的標準來看是非常空的 , 但那仍然意味著它含有超過一百萬噸的物質 。
and a million tons is enough to make , say , a selfcontained space station , on which there's a colony of scientists that are devoted to creating an openended stream of knowledge , and so on .	一百萬噸足夠建造一個自給自足的太空站在那裡有一群科學家致力於創造開放式的知識流之類的
now , it's way beyond present technology to even gather the hydrogen from intergalactic space and form it into other elements and so on .	現在的科技甚至連從星系間空間收集氫氣和將其轉化成其他元素等等都遠不夠 。
but the thing is , in a comprehensible universe , if something isn't forbidden by the laws of physics , then what could possibly prevent us from doing it , other than knowing how ?	但問題是 , 在一個可以理解的宇宙中 , 如果某個東西不被物理定律禁止 , 那麽 , 除了知道如何之外 , 還能阻止我們去做呢 ?
in other words , it's a matter of knowledge , not resources .	換句話說 , 這是關於知識的問題 , 而不是資源的問題 。
and the same well , if we could do that we'd automatically have an energy supply , because the transmutation would be a fusion reactor and evidence ?	同樣的 , 如果我們能自動獲得能源供給 , 因為轉變會是核融合反應爐和證據嗎 ?
well , again , it's dark out there to human senses . but all you've got to do is take a telescope , even one of presentday design , look out and you'll see the same galaxies as we do from here .	嗯 , 再次強調 , 這對人類感官來說是很黑暗的 。 但你只需要拿一個望遠鏡 , 甚至是現今的設計 , 看看外面的銀河系 , 就像我們從這裡看到的一樣 。
and with a more powerful telescope , you'll be able to see stars , and planets .	用一個更強大的望遠鏡 , 你將能夠看見恆星和行星 。
in those galaxies , you'll be able to do astrophysics , and learn the laws of physics .	在那些星系中 , 你可以做天體物理學 , 學習物理定律 。
and locally there you could build particle accelerators , and learn elementary particle physics , and chemistry , and so on .	定位在那裡 , 你可以建造粒子加速器 , 學習初級粒子物理學 , 化學等 。
probably the hardest science to do would be biology field trips because it would take several hundred million years to get to the nearest lifebearing planet and back .	最難做的可能是生物學實地考察 , 因為要花數百萬年才能到達最近的有生命的星球 , 再回來 。
but i have to tell you and sorry , richard but i never did like biology field trips much , and i think we can just about make do with one every few hundred million years .	但是我必須告訴你--對不起 , 理查--但我從來不喜歡生物學實地考察 , 我想我們可以每隔幾億年就完成一次 。
so in fact , intergalactic space does contain all the prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge . any such cube , anywhere in the universe , could become the same kind of hub that we are , if the knowledge of how to do so were present there .	所以事實上 , 星系間空間確實包含所有創造開放式知識的前提條件 。 任何這樣的立方體 , 在宇宙的任何地方 , 都可以成為同樣的樞紐 , 只要我們知道如何實現它的話 。
so we're not in a uniquely hospitable place .	所以 , 我們並沒有處在一個特別友善的地點 。
if intergalactic space is capable of creating an openended stream of explanations , then so is almost every other environment . so is the earth . so is a polluted earth .	如果銀河系間空間能夠創造出一串開放式的解釋 , 那麼幾乎所有其他的環境都是如此 。 這就是地球 。 污染的地球也是如此 。
and the limiting factor , there and here , is not resources , because they're plentiful , but knowledge , which is scarce .	而限制性因素 , 就在這裡 , 不是資源 , 因為資源很充足 , 但知識是稀少的 。
now this cosmic knowledgebased view may and i think ought to make us feel very special . but it should also make us feel vulnerable , because it means that without the specific knowledge that's needed to survive the ongoing challenges of the universe , we won't survive them .	這種以宇宙知識為基礎的觀點也許──我認為這應該會讓我們感覺非常特別 。 但也應該讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為若沒有具體的知識能夠在宇宙中存活下去 , 我們就無法存活下去 。
all it takes is for a supernova to go off a few light years away , and we'll all be dead !	僅僅是幾光年外的超新星爆炸 , 我們全都會死掉 !
martin rees has recently written a book about our vulnerability to all sorts of things , from astrophysics , to scientific experiments gone wrong , and most importantly to terrorism with weapons of mass destruction .	馬丁.雷斯最近寫了一本書 , 內容是關於我們對於各種事物的脆弱性 , 從天體物理學 , 到科學實驗都出錯了 , 最重要的是對於大規模殺傷性武器的恐怖主義 。
and he thinks that civilization has only a 50 percent chance of surviving this century .	他認為人類文明只有50%的機率能在這個世紀存活 。
i think he's going to talk about that later in the conference .	我想他晚點會在研討會上討論這個主題 。
now i don't think that probability is the right category to discuss this issue in .	我不認為機率是正確的類別 , 可以討論這個議題 。
but i do agree with him about this . we can survive , and we can fail to survive .	但我同意他的看法 , 我們可以存活下來 , 我們可以失敗的存活 。
but it depends not on chance , but on whether we create the relevant knowledge in time .	但這不取決於機率 , 而是我們是否能及時創造出相關的知識 。
the danger is not at all unprecedented . species go extinct all the time .	這種危險完全不是前所未有的物種會絕種
civilizations end . the overwhelming majority of all species and all civilizations that have ever existed are now history .	文明就這樣結束了 。 絕大多數的物種和所有的文明都是現在的歷史 。
and if we want to be the exception to that , then logically our only hope is to make use of the one feature that distinguishes our species , and our civilization , from all the others namely , our special relationship with the laws of physics , our ability to create new explanations , new knowledge to be a hub of existence .	如果我們想成為例外的話 , 那麼邏輯上我們唯一的希望就是使用區別我們族類和文明的一個特徵 , 與其他所有其他的特徵--也就是 , 我們與物理定律的特殊關係 , 我們創造新的解釋能力 , 新的知識成為存在的中心 。
so let me now apply this to a current controversy , not because i want to advocate any particular solution , but just to illustrate the kind of thing i mean .	讓我把這套系統用在當前的爭議上 , 不是因為我想要提議任何特定的解決方案 , 而只是要說明我的意思 。
and the controversy is global warming .	爭議就是全球暖化 。
now , i'm a physicist , but i'm not the right kind of physicist . in regard to global warming , i'm just a layman . and the rational thing for a layman to do is to take seriously the prevailing scientific theory . and according to that theory , it's already too late to avoid a disaster .	我是物理學家 , 但我不是個對的物理學家 。 以全球暖化來說 , 我只是個分層人 。 作為一個分層人 , 理性的做法是認真看待科學理論 。 根據那個理論 , 避免災難已經太遲了 。
because if it's true that our best option at the moment is to prevent co2 emissions with something like the kyoto protocol , with its constraints on economic activity and its enormous cost of hundreds of billions of dollars or whatever it is , then that is already a disaster by any reasonable measure .	因為如果這是正確的 , 我們目前最好的選擇就是防止二氧化碳排放 , 像是京都議定書、它在經濟活動上的限制 , 以及它巨大的成本 , 不論是什麼 , 那都只是不合理的衡量方式 。
and the actions that are advocated are not even purported to solve the problem , merely to postpone it by a little . so it's already too late to avoid it , and it probably has been too late to avoid it ever since before anyone realized the danger .	倡議的行動甚至都不是為了解決問題 , 僅僅稍微延遲這個問題 。 所以要避免它太遲 , 可能已經太遲了 , 在任何人意識到它之前就已經太遲了 。
it was probably already too late in the 1970s , when the best available scientific theory was telling us that industrial emissions were about to precipitate a new ice age in which billions would die .	在1970年代時已經太晚了 , 當時最好的科學理論告訴我們工業排放將要降低數十億人的死亡冰河時期 。
now the lesson of that seems clear to me , and i don't know why it isn't informing public debate .	這件事對我來說是很清楚的 , 我也不知道為什麼它不會告知大眾辯論 。
it is that we can't always know . when we know of an impending disaster , and how to solve it at a cost less than the cost of the disaster itself , then there's not going to be much argument , really .	我們不可能總是知道 。 當我們知道即將發生的災難 , 以及如何解決災難成本低於災難本身的成本 , 那麼就沒有太多的爭論了 。
but no precautions , and no precautionary principle , can avoid problems that we do not yet foresee .	但沒有任何預防措施 , 沒有任何預防措施 , 可以避免我們尚未預見的問題 。
hence , we need a stance of problemfixing , not just problemavoidance .	因此 , 我們需要一個能解決問題的立場 , 而不僅僅是能解決問題 。
and it's true that an ounce of prevention equals a pound of cure , but that's only if we know what to prevent .	的確 , 一盎司的預防等於一盎司的解藥 , 但這只是因為我們知道預防什麼 。
if you've been punched on the nose , then the science of medicine does not consist of teaching you how to avoid punches .	如果你已經在鼻子上打了一拳 , 那麼醫學的科學並不是在教你如何避免打針 。
if medical science stopped seeking cures and concentrated on prevention only , then it would achieve very little of either .	如果醫學不再研究治病的方法 , 只專注於預防 , 那它也幾乎無法完成 。
the world is buzzing at the moment with plans to force reductions in gas emissions at all costs .	世界在這時此刻正忙著想方案 , 要盡可能地減少氣體排放 。
it ought to be buzzing with plans to reduce the temperature , and with plans to live at the higher temperature and not at all costs , but efficiently and cheaply . and some such plans exist , things like swarms of mirrors in space to deflect the sunlight away , and encouraging aquatic organisms to eat more carbon dioxide .	可以大幅降低溫度 , 規劃可以大幅降低溫度 , 規劃可以降低溫度 , 不計代價地降低溫度 , 但是效率又便宜 。 有些規劃會存在 , 比如在太空中一大群鏡子 , 來將陽光偏移 , 並鼓勵水族有機體來吃更多二氧化碳 。
at the moment , these things are fringe research .	此時此刻 , 這些都是邊緣的研究 。
they're not central to the human effort to face this problem , or problems in general .	他們不是人類努力解決這個問題的核心 , 也不是一般性的問題 。
and with problems that we are not aware of yet , the ability to put right not the sheer good luck of avoiding indefinitely is our only hope , not just of solving problems , but of survival .	帶著我們還沒意識到的問題 , 我們有能力正確的做法 , 不是無限期地避開好運 , 是我們唯一的希望 , 不只是解決問題 , 還包括生存 。
so take two stone tablets , and carve on them .	拿兩個石板 , 刻在上面 。
on one of them , carve: " problems are soluble . "	其中一塊刻上 " 問題是可以解決的 "
and on the other one carve: " problems are inevitable . "	另外一塊刻上 " 問題是不可避免的 "
how can a struggling country break out of poverty if it's trapped in a system of bad rules ? economist paul romer unveils a bold idea: " charter cities , " cityscale administrative zones governed by a coalition of nations .	一個掙扎的國家如何擺脫貧窮 , 如果它被困在不良規則的體制中 ? 經濟學家保羅•羅默發出一個大膽的想法: 「 特區城市 」 、 「 城市 」 的行政區 , 是由國家聯盟統治的 。
business , culture , economics , global issues , politics	商業、文化、經濟、全球議題、政治、政治 ,
paul romer's radical idea: charter cities	保羅•羅默極端的想法:特區城市 。
take a look at this picture .	看看這張照片 。
it poses a very fascinating puzzle for us .	它為我們帶來了一個非常迷人的謎題 。
these african students are doing their homework under streetlights at the airport in the capital city because they don't have any electricity at home .	這些非洲學生在做功課在首都機場的路燈下因為他們家裡沒有電
now , i haven't met these particular students , but i've met students like them .	我還沒見過這些特別的學生 , 但我見過像他們一樣的學生 。
let's just pick one for example , the one in the green shirt .	讓我們挑個例子 , 綠襯衫裡的那個 。
let's give him a name , too: nelson .	我們給他一個名字:尼爾森 。
i'll bet nelson has a cellphone .	我打賭nelson有支手機 。
so here is the puzzle .	所以謎題來了 。
why is it that nelson has access to a cuttingedge technology , like the cellphone , but doesn't have access to a 100yearold technology for generating electric light in the home ?	為什麼尼爾森可以使用像手機這樣尖端的科技但在家中卻無法使用一百年的科技來產生電燈 ?
now , in a word , the answer is " rules . "	簡單來說 , 答案是 「 規則 」 。
bad rules can prevent the kind of winwin solution that's available when people can bring new technologies in and make them available to someone like nelson .	不良的規則可以防止雙贏解決方案的產生 , 只要人們可以把新科技帶進像尼爾森這樣的人就可以使用 。
what kinds of rules ?	什麼樣的規則 ?
the electric company in this nation operates under a rule , which says that it has to sell electricity at a very low , subsidized price in fact , a price that is so low it loses money on every unit that it sells .	這個國家的電力公司遵循一條規則 , 它必須以非常低、補貼的價格銷售電力 , 事實上 , 它的價格非常低 , 賣掉的每一單位都要付出很低 。
so it has neither the resources , nor the incentives , to hook up many other users .	所以它既沒有資源 , 也沒有動機去幫許多用戶配電 。
the president wanted to change this rule .	總統想要改變這個規則 。
he's seen that it's possible to have a different set of rules , rules where businesses earn a small profit , so they have an incentive to sign up more customers .	他看到 , 有可能有不同的規則、規則 , 讓企業獲利不大 , 所以他們有動機去註冊更多客戶 。
that's the kind of rules that the cellphone company that nelson purchases his telephony from operates under .	這是尼爾森為他的電信公司購買的那種規則 , 從操作的下面 。
the president has seen how those rules worked well .	總統知道這些規則如何運作得很好 。
so he tried to change the rules for pricing on electricity , but ran into a firestorm of protest from businesses and consumers who wanted to preserve the existing subsidized rates .	所以他試著改變電價制定的規則 , 但卻陷入了來自企業和消費者的抗議當中 , 他們想保存既有的補助制度 。
so he was stuck with rules that prevented him from letting the winwin solution help his country .	所以他所遵守的規則 , 阻止了他讓雙贏解決方案幫助他的國家 。
and nelson is stuck studying under the streetlights .	尼爾森在路燈下讀書 。
the real challenge then , is to try to figure out how we can change rules .	真正的挑戰在於 , 我們要想出如何改變規則 。
are there some rules we can develop for changing rules ?	我們能發展出一些規則來改變規則嗎 ?
i want to argue that there is a general abstract insight that we can make practical , which is that , if we can give more choices to people , and more choices to leaders who , in many countries , are also people .	我認為有一種抽象的見解可以使實用化 , 那就是 , 如果我們能給人民更多的選擇 , 對許多國家的領導者 , 更多的選擇也是人 。
but , it's useful to present the opposition between these two .	但展示出這兩者之間的對立是很有用的 。
because the kind of choice you might want to give to a leader , a choice like giving the president the choice to raise prices on electricity , takes away a choice that people in the economy want .	因為你可能想要給領導者的那種選擇 , 像是給總統提高電價的選擇 , 讓經濟的人民想要的這個選擇離開了 。
they want the choice to be able to continue consuming subsidized electric power .	他們希望選擇繼續使用補貼的電力 。
so if you give just to one side or the other , you'll have tension or friction .	所以如果你只給一邊或另一邊 , 你會有張力或摩擦力 。
but if we can find ways to give more choices to both , that will give us a set of rules for changing rules that get us out of traps .	但如果我們能想辦法給雙方更多的選擇 , 那就給予我們一套規則 , 來改變那些使我們脫離陷阱的規則 。
now , nelson also has access to the internet .	尼爾森也能接觸到網路 。
and he says that if you want to see the damaging effects of rules , the ways that rules can keep people in the dark , look at the pictures from nasa of the earth at night .	他說如果你想看到規則所造成的損害 , 規則可以讓人們待在黑暗中 , 看看美國太空總署拍的照片 ,
in particular check out asia .	特別是亞洲 。
if you zoom in here , you can see north korea , in outline here , which is like a black hole compared to its neighbors .	如果你放大這裡 , 你可以看到北韓 , 在這塊線上 , 和旁邊的黑洞相比 , 它就像是個黑洞 。
now , you won't be surprised to learn that the rules in north korea keep people there in the dark .	現在 , 你不會驚訝地發現北韓的規則總是把人放在黑暗中 。
but it is important to recognize that north korea and south korea started out with identical sets of rules in both the sense of laws and regulations , but also in the deeper senses of understandings , norms , culture , values and beliefs .	但值得注意的是 , 北韓和南韓開始時用的是同一套規則 , 不論是法律或法規 , 更深層的方面要了解、規範、文化、價值觀和信念 。
when they separated , they made choices that led to very divergent paths for their sets of rules .	當他們分開時 , 他們做了一些決定 , 導致他們一些規則上的分歧道路 。
so we can change we as humans can change the rules that we use to interact with each other , for better , or for worse .	我們可以改變身為人類的我們 , 可以改變彼此互動的規則 , 不論是好是壞 。
now let's look at another region , the caribbean .	現在我們來看看另一個加勒比海地區 。
zoom in on haiti , in outline here .	放大海地的畫面 , 在這裡 。
haiti is also dark , compared to its neighbor here , the dominican republic , which has about the same number of residents .	海地也很黑 , 相較於這裡的鄰居多明尼加共和國數量也差不多
both of these countries are dark compared to puerto rico , which has half as many residents as either haiti or the dominican republic .	這兩個國家 , 相較於波多黎各 , 波多黎各有一半的居民是像海地或多明尼加共和國 。
what haiti warns us is that rules can be bad because governments are weak .	海地警告我們的是 , 規則可能很糟 , 因為政府很軟弱 。
it's not just that the rules are bad because the government is too strong and oppressive , as in north korea .	不光是這些規則不好 , 因為政府的強勢和壓迫性太強 , 就像北韓的情況一樣 。
so that if we want to create environments with good rules , we can't just tear down .	所以如果我們想要創造有良好規則的環境 , 我們不能只是破壞 。
we've got to find ways to build up , as well .	我們也必須想辦法建設 ,
now , china dramatically demonstrates both the potential and the challenges of working with rules .	如今 , 中國戲劇性地展現出運用規則所帶來的潛力和挑戰 。
back in the beginning of the data presented in this chart , china was the world's hightechnology leader .	回到剛開始的資料 , 中國是世界上的高科技領袖 。
chinese had pioneered technologies like steel , printing , gunpowder .	中國人的科技像煉鋼、印刷、火藥等都是先驅
but the chinese never adopted , at least in that period , effective rules for encouraging the spread of those ideas a profit motive that could have encouraged the spread .	但中國人從來沒有採用 , 至少在那個時期 , 有效的規則中 , 鼓勵那些想法散播出去 , 這是一個利潤動機 , 可以鼓勵傳播出去 。
and they soon adopted rules which slowed down innovation and cut china off from the rest of the world .	他們很快就採用了規則 , 放慢了創新 , 阻斷了中國和世界其他地方 。
so as other countries in the world innovated , in the sense both of developing newer technologies , but also developing newer rules , the chinese were cut off from those advances .	所以 , 隨著世界上其他國家的創新 , 在發展新科技的同時 , 也發展出更新的規則 , 中國也被這些進展阻斷了 。
income there stayed stagnant , as it zoomed ahead in the rest of the world .	收入停滯不前 , 因為它放大了世界的另一端 。
this next chart looks at more recent data .	下一張圖表是比較近期的資料 。
it plots income , average income in china as a percentage of average income in the united states .	顯示的是中國的平均所得佔美國平均所得的百分比
in the '50s and '60s you can see that it was hovering at about three percent .	在50、60年代 , 你可以看到這個數字大約在百分之三左右 。
but then in the late '70s something changed .	但到了70年代末期 , 情況改變了 。
growth took off in china . the chinese started catching up very quickly with the united states .	中國經濟開始起飛中國人開始迎頭趕上美國
if you go back to the map at night , you can get a clue to the process that lead to the dramatic change in rules in china .	如果你回到夜裡的地圖你會發現這個過程導致中國體制的巨大改變
the brightest spot in china , which you can see on the edge of the outline here , is hong kong .	中國最亮的點你們可以在輪廓邊上看到 , 就是香港 。
hong kong was a small bit of china that , for most of the 20th century , operated under a very different set of rules than the rest of mainland china rules that were copied from working market economies of the time , and administered by the british .	香港是中國少數的點子 , 在20世紀大部份的時候 , 都採用非常不同的規則 , 相較於當時其他的中國大陸規則 , 其制度是來自當時的勞動市場經濟 , 由英國政府行政 。
in the 1950s , hong kong was a place where millions of people could go , from the mainland , to start in jobs like sewing shirts , making toys .	在1950年代 , 香港是一個數百萬人可以去的地方 , 從大陸開始 , 像是縫衣服 , 做玩具 。
but , to get on a process of increasing income , increasing skills led to very rapid growth there .	但 , 為了能進一步增加收入 , 增加技能 , 導致非常快速的成長 。
hong kong was also the model which leaders like deng xiaoping could copy , when they decided to move all of the mainland towards the market model .	香港當時也是一個模式讓像鄧小平這樣的領導者能夠複製 , 當他們決定將整個大陸推向市場模式時 。
but deng xiaoping instinctively understood the importance of offering choices to his people .	但鄧小平直覺地了解到提供人民選擇的重要性 。
so instead of forcing everyone in china to shift immediately to the market model , they proceeded by creating some special zones that could do , in a sense , what britain did: make the opportunity to go work with the market rules available to the people who wanted to opt in there .	所以 , 與其強迫所有人立刻轉換到市場模式 , 他們採取的做法是設立一些特區 , 從某種意義上來說 , 創造出可以實現的 , 讓英國人有機會和市場體制合作 , 讓那些想要選手的人有機會進入市場規則 。
so they created four special economic zones around hong kong: zones where chinese could come and work , and cities grew up very rapidly there ; also zones where foreign firms could come in and make things .	所以他們在香港周圍建立了四個經濟特區 , 讓中國能夠前往工作的地方 , 城市也在那裡快速成長 ; 外國企業也可以進來 , 製造東西 。
one of the zones next to hong kong has a city called shenzhen .	香港旁邊的一個區域有個叫深圳的城市 。
in that city there is a taiwanese firm that made the iphone that many of you have , and they made it with labor from chinese who moved there to shenzhen .	在那座城市中 , 有一間台灣企業 , 製造了你們很多人都擁有的iphone , 他們是靠中國人的勞力來建造的 , 搬到深圳 。
so after the four special zones , there were 14 coastal cites that were open in the same sense , and eventually demonstrated successes in these places that people could opt in to , that they flocked to because of the advantages they offered .	四個特區之後 , 有14個沿海城市 , 以相同的方式開放 , 最後在這些地方展示出成功 , 人民可以選擇去的地方 , 他們聚在一起 , 因為有利於提供的 。
demonstrated successes there led to a consensus for a move toward the market model for the entire economy .	那裡成功促成了全體經濟向市場模式邁進的共識 。
now the chinese example shows us several points .	中國的例子顯示了好幾點
one is: preserve choices for people .	第一 , 保存人民的選擇 。
two: operate on the right scale .	第二:運作的規模是對的 。
if you try to change the rules in a village , you could do that , but a village would be too small to get the kinds of benefits you can get if you have millions of people all working under good rules .	如果你試著改變一個村落的規則 , 你可以做到 , 但村落會太小 , 無法得到你所能得到的好處 , 如果你有數百萬人都在制度良好的規則下工作 。
on the other hand , the nation is too big .	另一方面 , 國家太大了 。
if you try to change the rules in the nation , you can't give some people a chance to hold back , see how things turn out , and let others zoom ahead and try the new rules .	如果你試著改變國家的規則 , 你就不能給一些人一個機會 , 看看事情的結果如何 , 讓其他人放大再試試新規則 。
but cities give you this opportunity to create new places , with new rules that people can opt in to .	但城市讓你有機會創造新地方 , 用人們可以遵守的新規則 。
and they're large enough to get all of the benefits that we can have when millions of us work together under good rules .	當數百萬人依靠良好的規則一起工作時 , 他們已經夠大了 , 可以取得所有我們能獲得的益處了 。
so the proposal is that we conceive of something called a charter city .	提議的是我們構思了所謂的特區城市 。
we start with a charter that specifies all the rules required to attract the people who we'll need to build the city .	一開始 , 我們規劃了各項規則 , 來吸引那些需要建造城市的人 。
we'll need to attract the investors who will build out the infrastructure the power system , the roads , the port , the airport , the buildings .	我們需要吸引投資者來建造電力系統、道路、港口、機場、建築 。
you'll need to attract firms , who will come hire the people who move there first .	首先你需要吸引公司的參與者 。
and you'll need to attract families , the residents who will come and live there permanently , raise their children , get an education for their children , and get their first job .	你需要吸引家庭 , 居民願意來永久住在那裡 , 養育他們的孩子 , 讓他們的孩子接受教育 , 取得他們的第一份工作 。
with that charter , people will move there .	隨著這一章節 , 人們會搬到那裡 。
the city can be built .	城市可以被建造起來 。
and we can scale this model .	我們可以擴大這個模式 。
we can go do it over and over again .	我們可以一遍又一遍地這樣做 。
to make it work , we need good rules . we've already discussed that .	要讓它成功 , 我們需要良好的規則 。 我們已經討論過了 。
those are captured in the charter .	那些是在憲章中被抓到的 。
we also need the choices for people .	我們也需要為人做出選擇 。
that's really built into the model if we allow for the possibility of building cities on uninhabited land .	這其實是建立在模型中 , 如果我們允許在無人居住的土地上建造城市的可能性 。
you start from uninhabited territory .	你從無人居住的領域開始 。
people can come live under the new charter , but no one is forced to live under it .	人們可以在新的憲章底下生活 , 但沒有人會被迫在它底下生活 。
the final thing we need are choices for leaders .	最後我們需要的是給領導者選擇 。
and , to achieve the kind of choices we want for leaders we need to allow for the potential for partnerships between nations: cases where nations work together , in effect , de facto , the way china and britain worked together to build , first a little enclave of the market model , and then scale it throughout china .	為了達成我們期望領導人的選擇我們需要讓國與國之間的合作可能性成為國與國之間的合作的可能例如 , 實質上 , 中國和英國的合作方式 , 首先是市場模式的一個小小的奴隸然後擴展到整個中國 。
in a sense , britain , inadvertently , through its actions in hong kong , did more to reduce world poverty than all the aid programs that we've undertaken in the last century .	在某種意義上 , 英國在不經意的 , 通過香港的行動 , 減少了世界貧窮的數量 , 比上個世紀所有援助計畫還要多 。
so if we allow for these kind of partnerships to replicate this again , we can get those kinds of benefits scaled throughout the world .	所以如果我們讓這樣的合作模式再度重現我們可以使全世界都受惠
in some cases this will involve a delegation of responsibility , a delegation of control from one country to another to take over certain kinds of administrative responsibilities .	在某些情況下 , 這會影響到負責任 , 權力由一個國家授權到另一個國家 , 來接管一些特定的行政權 。
now , when i say that , some of you are starting to think , " well , is this just bringing back colonialism ? "	現在 , 當我說這句話時 , 有些人開始想: 「 嗯 , 這只是讓殖民主義恢復嗎 ? 」
it's not . but it's important to recognize that the kind of emotions that come up when we start to think about these things , can get in the way , can make us pull back , can shut down our ability , and our interest in trying to explore new ideas .	不是的 , 但很重要的是要意識到當我們開始思考這些事情時產生的那種情緒可能會阻礙我們撤退 , 終結我們的能力和探索新想法的興趣
why is this not like colonialism ?	為什麼這和殖民主義不同 ?
the thing that was bad about colonialism , and the thing which is residually bad in some of our aid programs , is that it involved elements of coercion and condescension .	殖民主義不好的地方在於 , 在我們的一些援助計畫中 , 還剩下一個問題 , 那就是它和強制和優越的元素有關 。
this model is all about choices , both for leaders and for the people who will live in these new places .	這種模式的重點在於選擇 , 包括在這些新地方的領袖和人民 。
and , choice is the antidote to coercion and condescension .	而 「 選擇 」 是強制和優越的解藥 。
so let's talk about how this could play out in practice .	咱們來談談 , 要如何實現它 。
let's take a particular leader , raul castro , who is the leader of cuba .	咱們來看看特定的領袖raulcastro , 他是古巴的領袖 。
it must have occurred to castro that he has the chance to do for cuba what deng xiaoping did for china , but he doesn't have a hong kong there on the island in cuba .	卡斯楚一定也想過他有機會為古巴做到像鄧小平為中國所做的事但他在古巴沒有香港
he does , though , have a little bit of light down in the south that has a very special status .	不過他在南方的燈光很亮 , 它的地位很特別 。
there is a zone there , around guantanamo bay , where a treaty gives the united states administrative responsibility for a piece of land that's about twice the size of manhattan .	在關塔那摩灣周圍有一區 , 在那裡有條約為美國政府負責一塊土地 , 大約是曼哈頓的兩倍大 。
castro goes to the prime minister of canada and says , " look , the yankees have a terrible pr problem .	卡斯楚跑去找加拿大總理對他說: 「 看 , 南基斯有個嚴重的公關問題 。
they want to get out .	他們想要逃離 。
why don't you , canada , take over ?	你為什麼不 , 加拿大接管呢 ?
build run a special administrative zone .	建立一個特殊行政區 。
allow a new city to be built up there .	在那裡建造一座新城市 。
allow many people to come in .	讓許多人進來 。
let us have a hong kong nearby .	讓我們附近有一個香港 。
some of my citizens will move into that city as well .	我的一些市民也會搬進那個城市 。
others will hold back . but this will be the gateway that will connect the modern economy and the modern world to my country . "	其他人會退一步 , 但這將會是一座通往現代經濟和世界的通往我的國家的大道 。 」
now , where else might this model be tried ?	這個模型還能在哪裡試呢 ?
well , africa . i've talked with leaders in africa .	非洲 , 我和非洲的領導人談過 。
many of them totally get the notion of a special zone that people can opt into as a rule .	當中許多人完全了解特區的想法 , 讓大家可以選擇成一條規則 。
it's a rule for changing rules .	它是改變規則的規則 。
it's a way to create new rules , and let people optin without coercion , and the opposition that coercion can force .	它是一種創造新規則的方法 , 讓人民選擇沒有強制性 , 和強制性的反對力量也能引起強制作用 。
they also totally get the idea that in some instances they can make more credible promises to longterm investors the kind of investors who will come build the port , build the roads , in a new city they can make more credible promises if they do it along with a partner nation .	他們也完全了解 , 在某些情況下 , 他們可以對長期投資者做出更有保障的承諾 , 就像投資者會來蓋港口、建造道路、在新城市中 , 如果他們能和國家合作 , 做出更有保障的承諾 。
perhaps even in some arrangement that's a little bit like an escrow account , where you put land in the escrow account and the partner nation takes responsibility for it .	也許在某些安排有點像信託管理帳戶你把土地放在信託管理帳戶裡而合夥的國家也為此負責
there is also lots of land in africa where new cities could be built .	非洲還有很多的土地可以建造新城市 。
this is a picture i took when i was flying along the coast .	這是我沿著海岸飛行時照的照片 。
there are immense stretches of land like this land where hundreds of millions of people could live .	像這樣一大片延伸出去的土地上千萬人可以住在那裡 。
now , if we generalize this and think about not just one or two charter cites , but dozens cities that will help create places for the many hundreds of millions , perhaps billions of people who will move to cities in the coming century is there enough land for them ?	現在 , 如果我們簡化一下 , 不要只考慮一兩個特區的城市 , 而是數十個城市 , 能為數億人創造空間 , 也許未來的數十億人會住進都市 , 有足夠的土地容納他們嗎 ?
well , throughout the world , if we look at the lights at night , the one thing that's misleading is that , visually , it looks like most of the world is already built out .	在全世界 , 如果我們看夜裡的燈光 , 唯一誤導人的是 , 視覺上來看 , 世界上大部分的地區都已經被建造出來了 。
so let me show you why that's wrong .	讓我告訴你為什麼那是錯的 。
take this representation of all of the land .	以這塊地為例 。
turn it into a square that stands for all the arable land on earth .	把它變成一個方塊代表地球上所有的可耕地
and let these dots represent the land that's already taken up by the cities that three billion people now live in .	這些點代表的是有三十億人口居住的城市已經佔據了土地 。
if you move the dots down to the bottom of the rectangle you can see that the cities for the existing three billion urban residents take up only three percent of the arable land on earth .	如果你把這些點移到這個長方形的底部你會發現有30億人口的城市只佔了地球上可耕地面積的3%
so if we wanted to build cities for another billion people , they would be dots like this .	所以如果我們想再為數十億人建造城市 , 會是像這樣的點 。
we'd go from three percent of the arable land , to four percent .	我們從百分之三的可耕地發展到百分之四
we'd dramatically reduce the human footprint on earth by building more cities that people can move to .	我們會大大地減少地球上的人類足跡 , 做法是建立更多人們可以移動的城市 。
and if these are cities governed by good rules , they can be cities where people are safe from crime , safe from disease and bad sanitation , where people have a chance to get a job .	如果這些城市遵守良好的規則 , 它們可以是城市的居民安全 , 不受犯罪、疾病和衛生條件影響 , 人們就有機會找到工作 。
they can get basic utilities like electricity .	像是電力這種基本公共事業
their kids can get an education .	他們的孩子可以接受教育 。
so what will it take to get started building the first charter cities , scaling this so we build many more ?	所以 , 要建造第一個特區城市 , 要如何擴大規模 , 才能建造出更多這樣的城市 ?
it would help to have a manual .	一本手冊就更好了 。
what university professors could do is write some details that might go into this manual .	大學教授們能做的是為這本手冊撰寫一些細節 。
you wouldn't want to let us run the cities , go out and design them .	你不會想讓我們管理城市 , 到外面設計它們 。
you wouldn't let academics out in the wild .	你不會把學者趕出野外 。
but , you could set us to work thinking about questions like , suppose it isn't just canada that does the deal with raul castro .	但 , 你可以讓我們去思考一些問題 , 比如 , 不光是加拿大的問題 , 就能解決卡斯楚的問題 。
perhaps brazil comes in as a participant , and spain as well . and perhaps cuba wants to be one of the partners in a fourway joint venture .	也許巴西也加入參與者和西班牙 。 也許古巴也想成為四邊合作的一員 。
how would we write the treaty to do that ?	我們要如何寫條約來做到這一點 ?
there is less precedent for that , but that could easily be worked out .	沒有什麼先例可以解決 , 但那很容易就會被解決 。
how would we finance this ?	我們該如何去籌錢 ?
turns out singapore and hong kong are cities that made huge gains on the value of the land that they owned when they got started .	事實證明 , 新加坡和香港是在一開始就靠他們自己的土地獲得了巨大收益的城市 。
you could use the gains on the value of the land to pay for things like the police , the courts , but the school system and the health care system too , which make this a more attractive place to live , makes this a place where people have higher incomes which , incidentally , makes the land more valuable .	你可以用得到的錢來支付像警察、法庭等費用的費用 , 但學校體系和健康照護體系 , 這使得居住環境更吸引人 , 使居民的收入更高 , 更加珍貴 。
so the incentives for the people helping to construct this zone and build it , and set up the basic rules , go very much in the right direction .	所以 , 對於協助建造這塊區域的人的獎勵 , 建立它 , 並建立基礎規則 , 非常能走向正確的方向 。
so there are many other details like this .	還有很多其他的細節
how could we have buildings that are low cost and affordable for people who work in a first job , assembling something like an iphone , but make those buildings energy efficient , and make sure that they are safe , so they don't fall down in an earthquake or a hurricane .	我們如何讓一開始工作的人 , 擁有低成本且負擔得起的建築 , 例如iphone , 卻能讓建築節能 , 確保它們安全 , 不會落在地震或颶風中 。
many technical details to be worked out , but those of us who are already starting to pursue these things can already tell that there is no roadblock , there's no impediment , other than a failure of imagination , that will keep us from delivering on a truly global winwin solution .	許多技術細節尚待處理但我們這些已經開始追求這些事的人早已發現除了缺點想像沒有其他東西可以阻礙我們傳播一個真正的全球雙贏解決方案
let me conclude with this picture .	讓我用這張照片作結 。
the reason we can be so well off , even though there is so many people on earth , is because of the power of ideas .	儘管地球上有這麼多人 , 我們之所以能這麼幸福 , 是因為想法的力量 。
we can share ideas with other people , and when they discover them , they share with us .	我們可以和別人分享想法 , 當他們發現他們時 , 他們會和我們分享 。
it's not like scarce objects , where sharing means we each get less .	它不像稀有物品 , 分享意味著我們每個人都會變少 。
when we share ideas we all get more .	當我們分享想法時 , 我們都會得到更多 。
when we think about ideas in that way , we usually think about technologies .	當我們以這種方式思考想法時 , 我們通常想到的是科技 。
but there is another class of ideas: the rules that govern how we interact with each other ; rules like , let's have a tax system that supports a research university that gives away certain kinds of knowledge for free .	但還有另一類想法:主導我們彼此如何互動的規則 ; 規則像是:我們有稅制系統 , 支撐研究大學 , 免費提供某種知識 。
let's have a system where we have ownership of land that is registered in a government office , that people can pledge as collateral .	讓我們有一個土地制度 , 在政府辦公室註冊的土地 , 人民可以承諾為抵押抵押品 。
if we can keep innovating on our space of rules , and particularly innovate in the sense of coming up with rules for changing rules , so we don't get stuck with bad rules , then we can keep moving progress forward and truly make the world a better place , so that people like nelson and his friends don't have to study any longer under the streetlights . thank you .	如果我們能不斷創新我們的規則 , 尤其是在創造改變規則的基礎上 , 這樣我們就不會卡在不良的規則中 , 那麼我們就能不斷進步 , 真正讓世界變得更好 , 像尼爾森和他的朋友不再需要在路燈下學習 。 謝謝 。
genomics pioneer craig venter takes a break from his epic roundtheworld expedition to talk about the millions of genes his team has discovered so far in its quest to map the ocean’s biodiversity .	克雷格.凡特 , 基因學先驅者從他的史詩般的圓環探險中休息了一會兒 , 探討他的團隊目前發現的數百萬個基因 , 來繪製海洋的生物多樣性 。
dna , biosphere , biotech , entrepreneur , genetics , invention , oceans , science , technology	dna、生物圈、企業家、遺傳學、發明、海洋、科技、科技、科技、
craig venter on dna and the sea	克萊格•凡特在dna和海洋上 ,
at the break , i was asked by several people about my comments about the aging debate .	演講結束前 , 有幾個人問我對老化辯論的看法 。
and this will be my only comment on it .	而這是我唯一對此的評論 。
and that is , i understand that optimists greatly outlive pessimists .	那就是 , 我了解樂觀的人比悲觀者活得更久 。
what i'm going to tell you about in my 18 minutes is how we're about to switch from reading the genetic code to the first stages of beginning to write the code ourselves .	我在18分鐘內要告訴你們的是我們如何從閱讀基因編碼轉換到開始自己寫程式的第一階段
it's only 10 years ago this month when we published the first sequence of a freeliving organism , that of haemophilus influenzae .	僅僅是10年前的一個月 , 我們發表了第一組免費生存有機體的序列 , 即嗜血桿菌 。
that took a genome project from 13 years down to four months .	這項計畫花了13年才完成 , 才四個月 。
we can now do that same genome project in the order of two to eight hours .	我們現在可以在兩到八小時內完成同樣的基因計畫 。
so in the last decade , a large number of genomes have been added: most human pathogens , a couple of plants , several insects and several mammals , including the human genome .	所以 , 在過去十年間 , 大量的基因組被加上:大部分的人類病原體 , 幾種植物 , 幾隻昆蟲和幾種哺乳類動物 , 包括人類基因組 。
genomics at this stage of the thinking from a little over 10 years ago was , by the end of this year , we might have between three and five genomes sequenced ; it's on the order of several hundred .	十年前 , 在這個階段的基因組學就已經到了今年底 , 我們可能已經完成了三到五組基因組的測序 , 已經完成了數百組 。
we just got a grant from the gordon and betty moore foundation to sequence 130 genomes this year , as a side project from environmental organisms .	我們剛從grdon和bettymoore基金會獲得一項補助 , 今年我們已經完成了130組基因組的測序 , 做為環境生物的附屬計畫 。
so the rate of reading the genetic code has changed .	所以 , 閱讀基因編碼的速度已經改變了 。
but as we look , what's out there , we've barely scratched the surface on what is available on this planet .	但 , 根據我們的觀察 , 外面有什麼 , 我們幾乎沒有找到地球上能找到的物體表面 。
most people don't realize it , because they're invisible , but microbes make up about a half of the earth's biomass , whereas all animals only make up about one onethousandth of all the biomass .	大部分人不知道 , 因為它們是看不見的 , 但微生物佔地球生物總量的一半 , 所有的動物只占所有生物總量的1/0 。
and maybe it's something that people in oxford don't do very often , but if you ever make it to the sea , and you swallow a mouthful of seawater , keep in mind that each milliliter has about a million bacteria and on the order of 10 million viruses .	也許在牛津的人們通常不會這樣做 , 但如果你去海邊 , 吞一口海水 , 請記住每一毫升的海水中都有大約一百萬個細菌和大約一千萬個病毒 。
less than 5 , 000 microbial species have been characterized as of two years ago , and so we decided to do something about it .	到兩年前 , 只有少於5000種微生物已被定型 , 所以我們決定採取行動 。
and we started the sorcerer ii expedition , where we were , as with great oceanographic expeditions , trying to sample the ocean every 200 miles .	我們開始了第二次的飛行探險 , 就像偉大的海洋探險 , 試圖每200英里就取樣海洋 。
we started in bermuda for our test project , then moved up to halifax , working down the u . s . east coast , the caribbean sea , the panama canal , through to the galapagos , then across the pacific , and we're in the process now of working our way across the indian ocean .	我們從百慕達開始進行我們的考試計畫 , 接著移到哈利法克斯 , 沿著美國東岸 , 加勒比海 , 巴拿馬運河 , 穿過加拉巴哥群島 , 橫跨太平洋 , 現在我們正在橫越印度洋的途中 。
it's very tough duty ; we're doing this on a sailing vessel , in part to help excite young people about going into science .	這是很艱難的任務 ; 我們在帆船上這麼做 , 有一部分原因是要讓年輕人興奮進入科學領域 。
the experiments are incredibly simple .	實驗非常簡單 。
we just take seawater and we filter it , and we collect different size organisms on different filters , and then take their dna back to our lab in rockville , where we can sequence a hundred million letters of the genetic code every 24 hours .	我們只是把海水和過濾器拿起來 , 用不同的濾器收集不同的大小生物 , 接著 , 將它們的dna帶回我們在洛克維爾的實驗室 , 在那裡 , 我們可以每24小時完成一億個字母的基因編碼 。
and with doing this , we've made some amazing discoveries .	通過這樣做 , 我們有了驚人的發現 。
for example , it was thought that the visual pigments that are in our eyes there was only one or two organisms in the environment that had these same pigments .	例如 , 人們認為我們眼中的視覺色素環境中只有一兩種有機體擁有相同的色素
it turns out , almost every species in the upper parts of the ocean in warm parts of the world have these same photoreceptors , and use sunlight as the source of their energy and communication .	結果發現 , 世界上溫暖區域的所有物種 , 都有相同的光感接收器 , 以太陽為能源和溝通來源 。
from one site , from one barrel of seawater , we discovered 1 . 3 million new genes and as many as 50 , 000 new species .	從一個地方 , 從一桶海水中 , 我們發現了130萬種新基因 , 多達5萬種新物種 。
we've extended this to the air now with a grant from the sloan foundation .	我們已經從史隆基金會的補助金 , 將它延伸到空氣中 。
we're measuring how many viruses and bacteria all of us are breathing in and out every day , particularly on airplanes or closed auditoriums .	我們正在測量我們每天所呼吸的病毒和細菌數量 , 特別是在飛機上或密閉的會堂中 。
we filter through some simple apparatuses ; we collect on the order of a billion microbes from just a day filtering on top of a building in new york city .	我們透過一些簡單的儀器過濾 ; 我們僅僅在紐約市的一棟大樓頂層蒐集十億微生物的數量 。
and we're in the process of sequencing all that at the present time .	而我們正處於目前所有定序的過程中 。
just on the data collection side , just where we are through the galapagos , we're finding that almost every 200 miles , we see tremendous diversity in the samples in the ocean .	在收集資料方面 , 我們穿過加拉巴哥群島的地方 , 我們發現幾乎每隔200英里 , 我們在海裡看到巨大的多樣性 。
some of these make logical sense , in terms of different temperature gradients .	其中有些是合乎邏輯的 , 不同溫度差異的 。
so this is a satellite photograph based on temperatures red being warm , blue being cold and we found there's a tremendous difference between the warm water samples and the cold water samples , in terms of abundant species .	這是一張以溫度為基礎的衛星照片-紅色是溫暖的 , 藍色則是冷的-我們發現溫暖的水樣本和冰冷的水樣本有很大的差別 , 就豐富物種而言 。
the other thing that surprised us quite a bit is these photoreceptors detect different wavelengths of light , and we can predict that based on their amino acid sequence .	另一件令人驚訝的是這些色素細胞偵測不同波長的光線 , 我們可以根據它們的氨基酸序列預測出來 。
and these vary tremendously from region to region .	這些變化從地區到地區都極為不同 。
maybe not surprisingly , in the deep ocean , where it's mostly blue , the photoreceptors tend to see blue light .	或許不意外 , 在深海裡 , 大部分是藍色的光接受器 , 會看見藍色的光線 。
when there's a lot of chlorophyll around , they see a lot of green light .	當周圍有大量葉綠素時 , 它們會看到很多綠光 。
but they vary even more , possibly moving towards infrared and ultraviolet in the extremes .	但它們的變化可能更大 , 朝向紅外線和紫外線的狀況邁進 。
just to try and get an assessment of what our gene repertoire was , we assembled all the data including all of ours thus far from the expedition , which represents more than half of all the gene data on the planet and it totaled around 29 million genes .	為了評估我們的基因序列 , 我們集合了目前所有的資料 , 包括我們地球上一半以上的基因資料 , 總共包含了2億9千萬個基因 。
and we tried to put these into gene families to see what these discoveries are: are we just discovering new members of known families , or are we discovering new families ?	我們試著把這些放到基因家庭中 , 看看這些發現是什麼:我們發現了已知家庭的新成員 , 還是我們發現了新的家庭 ?
and it turns out we have about 50 , 000 major gene families , but every new sample we take in the environment adds in a linear fashion to these new families .	結果發現 , 我們有大約五萬個主要的基因族群 , 但我們在環境中所採集的每一個新樣本 , 都是以線性的方式 , 為這些新家庭所提供的 。
so we're at the earliest stages of discovery about basic genes , components and life on this planet .	所以 , 我們正處於發現基礎基因的最初階段 , 在這個星球上組成和生命的階段 。
when we look at the socalled evolutionary tree , we're up on the upper righthand corner with the animals .	當我們看到所謂的演化樹 , 我們就在右上角 , 和動物一起 。
of those roughly 29 million genes , we only have around 24 , 000 in our genome .	在大約兩億九千萬個基因中 , 我們的基因只有大約兩萬四千個 。
and if you take all animals together , we probably share less than 30 , 000 and probably maybe a dozen or more thousand different gene families .	如果你把所有動物放在一起 , 我們的基因族群大概只有不到三萬隻 , 也許是十多個以上 。
i view that these genes are now not only the design components of evolution .	現在我認為這些基因不僅僅是進化的設計元素 。
and we think in a genecentric view maybe going back to richard dawkins' ideas than in a genomecentric view , which are different constructs of these gene components .	我們從基因中心角度想 , 或許回到了理查•達金斯的想法 , 而不是基因組中心的觀點 , 這觀點不同於這些基因組成的構造 。
synthetic dna , the ability to synthesize dna , has changed at sort of the same pace that dna sequencing has over the last decade or two , and is getting very rapid and very cheap .	製造dna的能力和dna定序的速度差不多 , 和dna測序技術過去十年或二十年的速度差不多 , 而且成本很低 。
our first thought about synthetic genomics came when we sequenced the second genome back in 1995 , and that from mycoplasma genitalium .	我們對人造基因組學的第一個想法是當我們在1995年完成第二組基因組測序時 , 那是從mycoplas生殖器中得到的 。
and we have really nice tshirts that say , you know , " i heart my genitalium . "	我們有很棒的t恤 , 上面說: 「 我愛我的生殖器 。 」
this is actually just a microorganism .	這其實只是一種微生物 。
but it has roughly 500 genes .	但它有大約500個基因 。
haemophilus had 1 , 800 genes .	嗜血桿菌有1800個基因 。
and we simply asked the question , if one species needs 800 , another 500 , is there a smaller set of genes that might comprise a minimal operating system ?	我們會問 , 如果一個物種需要八百種 , 再加上五百種 , 有沒有一組比較小的基因 , 會是由最小的運作系統所組成 ?
so we started doing transposon mutagenesis .	所以我們開始進行轉位子突變 。
transposons are just small pieces of dna that randomly insert in the genetic code .	轉位子就是隨機插入基因編碼的一小段dna 。
and if they insert in the middle of the gene , they disrupt its function .	如果插入基因的正中間 , 就會阻斷其功能 。
so we made a map of all the genes that could take transposon insertions and we called those " nonessential genes . "	所以我們做了一張所有可以接受轉位子插入的基因圖譜 , 我們稱之為 「 非必要基因 」 。
but it turns out the environment is very critical for this , and you can only define an essential or nonessential gene based on exactly what's in the environment .	但事實證明環境是非常重要的 , 你只能依據環境的特性來定義一個必要或非必要的基因 。
we also tried to take a more directly intellectual approach with the genomes of 13 related organisms , and we tried to compare all of those , to see what they had in common .	我們還嘗試了更直接的方法來研究13種相似有機體的基因組 , 我們試著比較這些基因組 , 看看它們有什麼共通點 。
and we got these overlapping circles . and we found only 173 genes common to all 13 organisms .	我們找到了重疊的圓圈 。 我們找到了173個基因 , 共有13個有機體 。
the pool expanded a little bit if we ignored one intracellular parasite ; it expanded even more when we looked at core sets of genes of around 310 or so .	如果我們忽略一種細胞寄生蟲的話 , 池塘會稍微擴大一點 , 當我們研究核心基因組時 , 大約310組左右 。
so we think that we can expand or contract genomes , depending on your point of view here , to maybe 300 to 400 genes from the minimal of 500 .	所以我們認為我們可以根據你們的觀點 , 擴大或收縮基因組 , 擴展到約300到400個基因 , 從500個最小的基因 。
the only way to prove these ideas was to construct an artificial chromosome with those genes in them , and we had to do this in a cassettebased fashion .	要證明這些想法的唯一方法 , 就是用那些基因建造一個人造的染色體 , 我們必須以一種模塊式的方式來做 。
we found that synthesizing accurate dna in large pieces was extremely difficult .	我們發現 , 合成大型dna是極為困難的 。
ham smith and clyde hutchison , my colleagues on this , developed an exciting new method that allowed us to synthesize a 5 , 000base pair virus in only a twoweek period that was 100 percent accurate , in terms of its sequence and its biology .	hamsmith和clydehutchison , 我的同事們 , 研發出令人振奮的新方法 , 讓我們能在兩週內製造出5000個鹼基對的病毒 , 只精確到100%的準確度 , 且是它的生物學 。
it was a quite exciting experiment when we just took the synthetic piece of dna , injected it in the bacteria and all of a sudden , that dna started driving the production of the virus particles that turned around and then killed the bacteria .	這是一個相當令人興奮的實驗 , 當我們把人造的dna片段注入細菌中 , 突然間 , dna就開始驅動病毒粒子轉動並殺死細菌 。
this was not the first synthetic virus a polio virus had been made a year before but it was only one tenthousandth as active and it took three years to do .	這不是人造病毒的首次使用小兒麻痺病毒一年前被製成但是它只有原病毒1/100的活性它花了3年才完成
this is a cartoon of the structure of phi x 174 .	這是phix-174的結構 。
this is a case where the software now builds its own hardware , and that's the notions that we have with biology .	這是一個軟體能打造自身硬體的例子 , 這就是我們對生物學的概念 。
people immediately jump to concerns about biological warfare , and i had recent testimony before a senate committee , and a special committee the u . s . government has set up to review this area .	人們馬上開始關心生物戰 , 最近我在參議院委員會前發表了證詞 , 還有一個美國政府成立的專門委員會來檢視這個區域 。
and i think it's important to keep reality in mind , versus what happens with people's imaginations .	我認為 , 把現實留在心中 , 與人們的想像力比較 , 是很重要的 。
basically , any virus that's been sequenced today that genome can be made .	基本上 , 今天任何已經被定序過的病毒 , 都是可以被製造出來的 。
and people immediately freak out about things about ebola or smallpox , but the dna from this organism is not infective .	人們會對伊波拉病毒或天花感到驚恐 , 但這個有機體的dna並不具傳染性 。
so even if somebody made the smallpox genome , that dna itself would not cause infections .	所以即使製造出天花的基因組 , dna本身也不會造成感染 。
the real concern that security departments have is designer viruses .	真正讓人擔憂的是安全部門的設計師病毒 。
and there's only two countries , the u . s . and the former soviet union , that had major efforts on trying to create biological warfare agents .	僅有兩個國家 , 美國和前蘇聯 , 曾投入大量資源試圖打造生物武器元件 。
if that research is truly discontinued , there should be very little activity on the knowhow to make designer viruses in the future .	如果那些研究真的被終止了 , 在將來 , 應該不會再有任何人在製造設計病毒 。
i think singlecell organisms are possible within two years .	我認為 , 在兩年內 , 單細胞生物是可能的 。
and possibly eukaryotic cells , those that we have , are possible within a decade .	而很有可能的真核細胞 , 那些我們擁有的 , 在十年內就有可能實現的細胞 。
so we're now making several dozen different constructs , because we can vary the cassettes and the genes that go into this artificial chromosome .	我們現在正在製作數十種不同的構造 , 因為我們可以改變這些放入人造染色體的種類和基因 。
the key is , how do you put all of the others ?	關鍵是 , 如何把其他的全部都安置在一起 ?
we start with these fragments , and then we have a homologous recombination system that reassembles those into a chromosome .	我們從這些片段開始 , 然後我們有一個同源重組系統 , 將這些片段組成染色體 。
this is derived from an organism , deinococcus radiodurans , that can take three million rads of radiation and not be killed .	這源自一種生物 , 耐輻射奇異球菌 , 它能承受三百萬雷得的輻射 , 而不會被殺 。
it reassembles its genome after this radiation burst in about 12 to 24 hours , after its chromosomes are literally blown apart .	在輻射爆發後它會在12至24小時內重組自己的基因 , 在它的染色體被完全拆散後 。
this organism is ubiquitous on the planet , and exists perhaps now in outer space due to all our travel there .	這種生物在地球上普遍存在 , 可能因為我們在太空中旅行而存在 。
this is a glass beaker after about half a million rads of radiation .	這是經過50萬拉德輻射照射過後的一個玻璃杯
the glass started to burn and crack , while the microbes sitting in the bottom just got happier and happier .	玻璃開始碎裂 , 微生物的底部卻變得更快樂、更快樂 。
here's an actual picture of what happens: the top of this shows the genome after 1 . 7 million rads of radiation .	這是一張實際狀況的圖片上面的圖片顯示的是經過170萬拉德輻射後的基因組
the chromosome is literally blown apart .	染色體被完全打破了 。
and here's that same dna automatically reassembled 24 hours later .	同樣的dna在24小時後自動重新組合 。
it's truly stunning that these organisms can do that , and we probably have thousands , if not tens of thousands , of different species on this planet that are capable of doing that .	的確令人吃驚的是這些生物能夠做到這一點 , 地球上大概有成千上萬種不同的生物 , 可以做到這一點 。
after these genomes are synthesized , the first step is just transplanting them into a cell without a genome .	在這些基因組被製造之後 , 第一步就是將它們移植到一個沒有基因組的細胞中 。
so we think synthetic cells are going to have tremendous potential , not only for understanding the basis of biology but for hopefully environmental and society issues .	所以我們認為人造細胞將會有巨大的潛力 , 不僅僅是為了瞭解生物學的基礎 , 希望能對環境和社會議題有更多的了解 。
for example , from the third organism we sequenced , methanococcus jannaschii it lives in boiling water temperatures ; its energy source is hydrogen and all its carbon comes from co2 it captures back from the environment .	例如 , 從我們所測序的第三個有機體 , 珍納克斯奈兒在沸騰的水溫中生存 。 它的能量來源是氫 , 它所捕捉的二氧化碳來自環境 。
so we know lots of different pathways , thousands of different organisms now that live off of co2 , and can capture that back .	我們知道許多不同的途徑 , 數以千計不同的生物以二氧化碳為生 , 可以追溯回來 。
so instead of using carbon from oil for synthetic processes , we have the chance of using carbon and capturing it back from the atmosphere , converting that into biopolymers or other products .	與其從石油中提取人工合成過程中的碳 , 我們有機會從大氣中捕捉它 , 轉化成生物高分子或其他產品 。
we have one organism that lives off of carbon monoxide , and we use as a reducing power to split water to produce hydrogen and oxygen .	我們有一種生物 , 存在於一氧化碳之外 , 我們用水來當作減少的力量 , 來分解水來產生氫和氧 。
also , there's numerous pathways that can be engineered metabolizing methane .	此外 , 還有許多通路可以改造成甲烷代謝 。
and dupont has a major program with statoil in norway to capture and convert the methane from the gas fields there into useful products .	dupont在挪威使用石油作為補充及轉化因天然氣田裡的甲烷成為有用的產品
within a short while , i think there's going to be a new field called " combinatorial genomics , " because with these new synthesis capabilities , these vast gene array repertoires and the homologous recombination , we think we can design a robot to make maybe a million different chromosomes a day .	不久之後 , 我認為就會有一個新的領域叫做 「 組合基因組學 」 , 因為有了這些新的合成能力 , 這些廣大的基因陣列 , 以及同源重組 , 我們認為我們可以設計一個機器人 , 每天可以製造也許一百萬種不同的染色體 。
and therefore , as with all biology , you get selection through screening , whether you're screening for hydrogen production , or chemical production , or just viability .	因此 , 正如所有生物學一樣 , 通過篩選可以達到目的 , 不論是用氫氣生產 , 或化學生產 , 或只是可行性 。
to understand the role of these genes is going to be well within reach .	要了解這些基因所扮演的角色 , 將是非常容易的 。
we're trying to modify photosynthesis to produce hydrogen directly from sunlight .	我們試著修改光合作用從陽光直接產生氫氣 。
photosynthesis is modulated by oxygen , and we have an oxygeninsensitive hydrogenase that we think will totally change this process .	光合作用是由氧氣來調節的 , 我們認為有一種氧敏感的氫氣 , 將會完全改變這個過程 。
we're also combining cellulases , the enzymes that break down complex sugars into simple sugars and fermentation in the same cell for producing ethanol .	我們也將纖維素和分解複合糖的酵素結合成簡單糖和發酵在同一個細胞中 , 目的是產生乙醇 。
pharmaceutical production is already under way in major laboratories using microbes .	使用微生物的製藥生產已經在各大實驗室中進行 。
the chemistry from compounds in the environment is orders of magnitude more complex than our best chemists can produce .	環境中的化合物所產生的化學成份比我們所能產出的最好的化學家還要複雜許多 。
i think future engineered species could be the source of food , hopefully a source of energy , environmental remediation and perhaps replacing the petrochemical industry .	我認為未來的工程物種可以是食物的來源 , 希望是能源的來源 , 環境的補救措施 , 也許可以取代化工業 。
let me just close with ethical and policy studies .	讓我以倫理和政策的研究來結尾 。
we delayed the start of our experiments in 1999 until we completed a yearandahalf bioethical review as to whether we should try and make an artificial species .	在1999年我們延遲了實驗的開始直到我們完成了一個一年半的生物倫理審核是否應該嘗試製造一個人造物種 。
every major religion participated in this .	每一個主要的宗教都參與其中 。
it was actually a very strange study , because the various religious leaders were using their scriptures as law books , and they couldn't find anything in them prohibiting making life , so it must be ok . the only ultimate concerns were biological warfare aspects of this , but gave us the go ahead to start these experiments for the reasons we were doing them .	這真的是一項非常奇怪的研究 , 因為各種宗教領袖使用他們的教義作為法律 , 他們無法在禁止製造生命的條款中找到任何東西 , 所以這也沒關係 。 最終 , 唯一的關注是生物戰的方面 , 但也給了我們預先提供這些實驗的理由 。
right now the sloan foundation has just funded a multiinstitutional study on this , to work out what the risk and benefits to society are , and the rules that scientific teams such as my own should be using in this area , and we're trying to set good examples as we go forward .	現在sloan基金會已經資助了一個多機構的研究 , 致力於找出這方面的風險和益處 , 以及一些科學團隊 , 比如我自己應該在這個領域使用的規則 , 我們正在嘗試建立好的例子 。
these are complex issues .	這些都是複雜的問題 。
except for the threat of bioterrorism , they're very simple issues in terms of , can we design things to produce clean energy , perhaps revolutionizing what developing countries can do and provide through various simple processes .	除了生物恐怖主義威脅之外 , 它們是非常簡單的議題 , 我們是否能設計東西來產生乾淨能源 , 也許革命開發中國家能做些什麼 , 並提供各種簡單的處理方式 。
psychologist philip zimbardo says happiness and success are rooted in a trait most of us disregard: the way we orient toward the past , present and future . he suggests we calibrate our outlook on time as a first step to improving our lives .	心理學家菲利普•津巴多說 , 快樂和成功根植於我們大多數人不認同的特質:我們對過去、現在和未來的方向 。 他建議我們把前景視為改善我們人生的第一步 。
brain , business , happiness , mind , psychology , science	大腦、商業、快樂、心智、心理、心理、科學 ,
philip zimbardo prescribes a healthy take on time	菲利浦辛巴多處方一個健康的時光步驟
i want to share with you some ideas about the secret power of time , in a very short time .	我想和大家分享一些關於時光的秘密力量 , 很短的時間內 。
video: all right , start the clock please . 30 seconds studio .	影片:好了 , 開始計時 , 30秒 。
keep it quiet please . settle down .	保持安靜 , 安頓下來 。
it's about time . end sequence . take one .	時間快到了 。 快結束 。
10 , nine , eight , seven , six , five , four , three , two . . .	10、9、8、7、6、5、4、3、2......
philip zimbardo: let's tune into the conversation of the principals in adam's temptation .	菲利浦津巴多:讓我們看看這段對話:亞當的誘惑 。
" come on adam , don't be so wishywashy . take a bite . " " i did . "	「 來吧 , 亞當 , 別想要華麗 , 咬一口 。 」 我有 。
" one bite , adam . don't abandon eve . "	「 一口 , 亞當 。 不要忘了伊娃 。 」
" i don't know , guys .	「 各位 , 我不知道 。
i don't want to get in trouble . "	我不想惹上麻煩 。 」
" okay . one bite . what the hell ? "	「 好吧 , 一口 。 搞什麼鬼 ? 」
life is temptation . it's all about yielding , resisting , yes , no , now , later , impulsive , reflective , present focus and future focus .	生活充滿誘惑 。 重點是培養、抗拒 , 是的 , 現在 , 以後 , 衝動 , 關注現在 , 和未來 。
promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment .	保證美德會勝過當下的熱情 。
of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage thank you george bush the majority , 60 percent , yielded to sexual temptations within one year .	那些曾宣誓要在婚前不順的少女們 , 感謝小布希 , 大多數 , 60% , 一年內違背性別的誘惑 。
and most of them did so without using birth control .	他們大多數都沒有採取避孕措施 。
so much for promises .	太好了 。
now lets tempt fouryearolds , giving them a treat .	現在 , 讓我們來試試四歲的孩子 , 給他們吃得好 。
they can have one marshmallow now . but if they wait until the experimenter comes back , they can have two .	現在可以有一顆棉花糖 。 但如果他們等到試驗員回來 , 他們就可以有兩顆 。
of course it pays , if you like marshmallows , to wait .	當然 , 如果你喜歡棉花糖 , 那就得等上 。
what happens is twothirds of the kids give in to temptation .	三分之二的孩子帶著誘惑的心情進入監獄 。
they cannot wait . the others , of course , wait .	他們不能等 , 其他人 , 當然 , 等等 。
they resist the temptation . they delay the now for later .	他們會抗拒誘惑 , 延後至今 。
walter mischel , my colleague at stanford , went back 14 years later , to try to discover what was different about those kids .	我在史丹佛大學的同事沃爾特•米歇爾14年後 , 試圖找出這些孩子與什麼不同之處 。
there were enormous differences between kids who resisted and kids who yielded , in many ways .	反抗的孩子和反抗的孩子在很多方面都有巨大的差異 。
the kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the sat .	反抗的孩子在sat上得到了250分 。
that's enormous . that's like a whole set of different iq points .	這很巨大 。 這就像一整套不同的智商點 。
they didn't get in as much trouble . they were better students .	他們不會惹上那麼多麻煩 , 他們是好學生 。
they were selfconfident and determined . and the key for me today , the key for you , is , they were futurefocused rather than presentfocused .	她們是自信且堅定的 。 而今天對我來說 , 對你們來說 , 關鍵是 , 她們是以 " 將 " 為基礎 , 而非 " 以 " 為基礎 。
so what is time perspective ? that's what i'm going to talk about today .	所以 , 什麼是時間觀點 ? 這就是我今天要談的 。
time perspective is the study of how individuals , all of us , divide the flow of your human experience into time zones or time categories .	看待時間是研究個體 , 我們所有人 , 將你個人經歷的流向分為時區或時間類別 。
and you do it automatically and nonconsciously .	而且你會自動且無意識地做 。
they vary between cultures , between nations , between individuals , between social classes , between education levels .	不同文化、不同國家、不同社會階級、教育程度
and the problem is that they can become biased , because you learn to overuse some of them and underuse the others .	問題是 , 它們可能會有偏見 , 因為你會學會過度使用 , 且低估其他的部分 。
what determines any decision you make ?	你做了什麼決定 ?
you make a decision on which you're going to base an action .	你要做一個決定 , 要採取行動 。
for some people it's only about what is in the immediate situation , what other people are doing and what you're feeling .	對某些人來說 , 只有在當下情況 , 別人做的事和你的感受 。
and those people , when they make their decisions in that format we're going to call them " presentoriented , " because their focus is what is now .	而那些人 , 當他們做出那樣的決定時 , 我們會稱他們為 「 現實導向 」 , 因為他們關注的是現在 。
for others , the present is irrelevant .	對其他人來說 , 現在不重要了 。
it's always about " what is this situation like that i've experienced in the past ? "	重要的是 「 我過去曾經歷過的這種狀況是什麼樣子的 ? 」
so that their decisions are based on past memories .	他們的決策基於過去的記憶 。
and we're going to call those people " pastoriented , " because they focus on what was .	我們稱這些人為 " 懷舊主義 " , 因為他們關注的是過去 。
for others it's not the past , it's not the present , it's only about the future .	對另一些人 , 這不是過去 , 不是現在 , 而是未來 。
their focus is always about anticipated consequences .	他們專注於所期待的結果 。
we're going to call them " futureoriented . " their focus is on what will be .	我們稱他們為 「 未來導向 」 。 他們關注的是未來 。
so , time paradox , i want to argue , the paradox of time perspective , is something that influences every decision you make , you're totally unaware of .	所以 , 時間悖論 , 我想說的是時間觀點的悖論是影響你所做的每一個決定的 , 但你卻完全不知道 。
namely , the extent to which you have one of these biased time perspectives .	換句話說 , 你有著帶有偏見的時間觀點 。
well there is actually six of them . there are two ways to be presentoriented .	總共有六種 。 目前有兩種解釋方式 。
there is two ways to be pastoriented , two ways to be future .	有兩種方式可以被 " 懷舊 " , 兩種方式可以成為 " 未來 " 。
you can focus on pastpositive , or pastnegative .	你可以把焦點放在正面或負面 。
you can be presenthedonistic , namely you focus on the joys of life , or presentfatalist it doesn't matter , your life is controlled .	也可以是 " 享受主義者 " 也可以是專注於享受生活的樂趣或宿命論者這並不重要你的生活是被控制的
you can be futureoriented , setting goals .	你可以是 " 理想主義 " , 設定目標
or you can be transcendental future: namely , life begins after death .	或者你也可以是超越未來的:即生命從死後開始 。
developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidly depending on the demands of the situation , that's what you've got to learn to do .	發展思維的靈活性 , 改變時間觀點的流暢度 , 取決於情況的需求 , 這就是你要學的 。
so , very quickly , what is the optimal time profile ?	很快地 , 什麼是最佳時光檔 ?
high on pastpositive . moderately high on future .	高度 " 正面懷舊 " , 適度 " 未來 。
and moderate on presenthedonism .	現代主義 。
and always low on pastnegative and presentfatalism .	總是把負面和現代主義降低 。
so the optimal temporal mix is what you get from the past pastpositive gives you roots . you connect your family , identity and your self .	所以 , 最佳時光的混合是你從過去積極的態度所得到的 。 將你的家人、身份和你的自我連結起來 。
what you get from the future is wings to soar to new destinations , new challenges .	未來從翅膀到翱翔到新的目的地 , 新的挑戰 。
what you get from the present hedonism is the energy , the energy to explore yourself , places , people , sensuality .	你從現在的享樂主義得到的能量就是探索你自己 , 地方 , 人 , 感性
any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives .	任何過度的時光角度 , 其負面遠多於正面 。
what do futures sacrifice for success ?	未來要犧牲什麼才能成功 ?
they sacrifice family time . they sacrifice friend time .	他們犧牲家庭時間 , 犧牲朋友的時間 。
they sacrifice fun time . they sacrifice personal indulgence .	他們犧牲快樂時光 , 犧牲個人的沉溺 。
they sacrifice hobbies . and they sacrifice sleep . so it affects their health .	他們犧牲業餘愛好 ; 犧牲睡眠 。 這會影響到他們的健康 。
and they live for work , achievement and control .	他們活著是為了工作、成就和控制 。
i'm sure that resonates with some of the tedsters .	我相信 , 那會和一些ted成員產生共鳴 。
and it resonated for me . i grew up as a poor kid in the south bronx ghetto , a sicilian family everyone lived in the past and present .	這對我產生共鳴 。 我在南布朗克斯貧民窟長大 , 西西里島家庭 , 過去和現在都是 。
i'm here as a futureoriented person who went over the top , who did all these sacrifices because teachers intervened , and made me future oriented .	我是以未來為主的人 , 來到頂端 , 做出這些犧牲 , 因為老師介入 , 讓我有朝一日的方向 。
told me don't eat that marshmallow , because if you wait you're going to get two of them , until i learned to balance out .	告訴我不要吃那顆棉花糖 , 因為如果你等著你就會得到其中二顆 , 直到我學會去平衡 。
i've added presenthedonism , i've added a focus on the pastpositive , so , at 76 years old , i am more energetic than ever , more productive , and i'm happier than i have ever been .	現在我再加上 「 享樂主義 」 , 我把焦點放在正面 , 所以 , 在76歲時 , 我比以往更有活力 , 更有生產力 , 我比以往更開心 。
i just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems: changing the dropout rates of school kids , combating addictions , enhancing teen health , curing vets' ptsd with time metaphors getting miracle cures promoting sustainability and conservation , reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50percent drop out rate , altering appeals to suicidal terrorists , and modifying family conflicts as timezone clashes .	我只想說 , 我們正在把這個應用在許多世界問題上:改變輟學率 , 打擊毒品 , 提升青少年健康 , 用時間隱喻來治療退伍軍人的ptsd , 用奇蹟來治療永續性和保育 , 減少身體康復率 , 此舉減少了50%的輟學率 , 改變自殺式恐怖份子的念頭 , 以及修正家族之間的衝突 。
so i want to end by saying: many of life's puzzles can be solved by understanding your time perspective and that of others .	我想以一句話做結語:許多人生的難題都可以被解決 , 只要了解你的時間觀和他人的觀點 。
and the idea is so simple , so obvious , but i think the consequences are really profound .	想法是如此簡單 , 顯而易見 , 但我認為後果是如此深遠 。
how many of today's headlines will matter in 100 years ? 1000 ? kirk citron's " long news " project collects stories that not only matter today , but will resonate for decades even centuries to come . at ted2010 , he highlights recent headlines with the potential to shape our future .	今天的頭條有多少在一百年後才是重要的 ? 一千年後 ? 克雷克-凱特倫的 「 長新聞 」 計畫收集到這些故事 , 不但影響到今天的主題 , 還會有數十年的回響 。 在2010年的ted2010年 , 他強調了近期的頭條 , 可能影響我們未來的頭條 。
future , global issues , media , news , science	未來、全球議題、媒體、新聞、科學 ,
kirk citron: and now , the real news	kirkcitron:而現在 , 真正的新聞 。
we are drowning in news .	我們淹沒在新聞中 。
reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year .	光是路透社一年就有350萬則新聞 。
that's just one source .	那只是其中一個源頭 。
my question is: how many of those stories are actually going to matter in the long run ?	我的問題是:這些故事當中有多少在長期來說是重要的 ?
that's the idea behind the long news .	那就是 「 長遠新聞 」 的想法 。
it's a project by the long now foundation , which was founded by tedsters including kevin kelly and stewart brand .	這是個長遠現在基金會的專案由tedsters所創辦包括kevinkellly和stewartbrand
and what we're looking for is news stories that might still matter 50 or 100 or 10 , 000 years from now .	我們要尋找的新聞故事可能在五、十或十萬年前仍然很重要 。
and when you look at the news through that filter , a lot falls by the wayside .	當你從那個篩選器中看新聞時 , 很多東西都倒在了 。
to take the top stories from the a . p . this last year , is this going to matter in a decade ?	拿去年美聯社的頭條新聞來說 , 十年後這還會很重要嗎 ?
is this going to matter in 50 or 100 years ?	這在50或100年後才會很重要嗎 ?
okay , that was kind of cool .	好吧 , 還滿酷的 。
but the top story of this past year was the economy , and i'm just betting that , sooner or later , this particular recession is going to be old news .	但去年的頭條是經濟 , 我敢說 , 遲早 , 這波經濟衰退將會是老式的消息 。
so , what kind of stories might make a difference for the future ?	所以 , 哪種故事對未來會造成改變 ?
well , let's take science .	嗯 , 就以科學為例 。
someday , little robots will go through our bloodstreams fixing things .	有一天 , 小機器人會穿過我們的血流 , 幫我們修理東西 。
that someday is already here if you're a mouse .	若你是老鼠 , 就已經有一天了 。
some recent stories: nanobees zap tumors with real bee venom ; they're sending genes into the brain ; a robot they built that can crawl through the human body .	最近的故事是:奈米蜜蜂用真蜂毒液殺死腫瘤 ; 它們把基因送入大腦 ; 一個他們建造的機器人 , 可以在人體爬行 。
what about resources ? how are we going to feed nine billion people ?	資源方面呢 ? 我們要如何養活90億人 ?
we're having trouble feeding six billion today .	我們今天餵飽了60億人
as we heard yesterday , there's over a billion people hungry .	正如我們昨天聽到的 , 已經有超過十億人在挨餓 。
britain will starve without genetically modified crops .	不用基因改造作物 , 英國人會餓死 。
bill gates , fortunately , has bet a billion on [agricultural] research .	幸運的是 , 比爾蓋茲投入了十億在農業研究上 。
what about global politics ?	那麼全球政治呢 ?
the world's going to be very different when and if china sets the agenda , and they may .	世界會變得非常不一樣 , 如果中國設立了 「 議程 」 , 且他們會做到 。
they've overtaken the u . s . as the world's biggest car market , they've overtaken germany as the largest exporter , and they've started doing dna tests on kids to choose their careers .	他們已經超過美國成為世界上最大的汽車市場 , 他們已經超過德國成為最大的出口國 , 他們也開始在孩子身上做dna測試 , 來選擇他們的事業 。
we're finding all kinds of ways to push back the limits of what we know .	我們正在尋找各種方法來把我們所知道的限制推回來 。
some recent discoveries: there's an ant colony from argentina that has now spread to every continent but antarctica ; there's a selfdirected robot scientist that's made a discovery soon , science may no longer need us , and life may no longer need us either ; a microbe wakes up after 120 , 000 years .	最近有些發現 , 阿根廷有一個蟻群現在散播到每個大陸 , 但南極洲 ; 自導導的機器人科學家很快就發現了 , 科學可能不再需要我們 , 生命就可能不再需要我們了 ; 一個微生物在十二萬年後醒來 。
it seems that with or without us , life will go on .	似乎沒有人類 , 生命會繼續下去 。
but my pick for the top long news story of this past year was this one: water found on the moon .	但我去年選了一篇長篇新聞報導 , 是這個:月球上有水 。
makes it a lot easier to put a colony up there .	使那裡的殖民地更容易被送到那裡 。
and if nasa doesn't do it , china might , or somebody in this room might write a big check .	如果美國太空總署不做 , 中國可能會做 , 也可能在座的某些人可能會寫一張大支票 。
my point is this: in the long run , some news stories are more important than others .	我的重點是:長遠來看 , 某些新聞故事比其他新聞更重要 。
planetary scientist carolyn porco shows images from the cassini voyage to saturn , focusing on its largest moon , titan , and on frozen enceladus , which seems to shoot jets of ice .	星球科學家carolynporco顯示了卡西尼航行到土星的影像 , 聚焦在它最大的衛星泰坦大衛星上 , 以及在結凍土衛二上 , 它似乎會射出冰束的噴射機 。
nasa , design , exploration , science , space , technology , universe , visualizations	nasa , 設計 , 探索 , 科學 , 空間 , 科技 , 宇宙 , 視覺化視覺化.
carolyn porco flies us to saturn	卡洛琳.波爾科請我們飛到土星 。
in the next 18 minutes , i'm going to take you on a journey .	在接下來的18分鐘裡 , 我要帶你們踏上一段旅程 。
and it's a journey that you and i have been on for many years now , and it began some 50 years ago , when humans first stepped off our planet .	這是你們和我相處了很多年的旅程 , 50年前就開始了 , 那時人類第一次踏出我們的星球 。
and in those 50 years , not only did we literally , physically set foot on the moon , but we have dispatched robotic spacecraft to all the planets all eight of them and we have landed on asteroids , we have rendezvoused with comets , and , at this point in time , we have a spacecraft on its way to pluto , the body formerly known as a planet .	在那50年裡 , 我們不僅成功地登上了月球 , 我們還將太空船發射到其中的八個行星上 , 我們著陸在小行星上 , 與彗星相遇 , 此時此刻 , 我們有一艘太空船正向冥王星駛去 , 它以前稱為 「 行星 」 的星球 。
and all of these robotic missions are part of a bigger human journey: a voyage to understand something , to get a sense of our cosmic place , to understand something of our origins , and how earth , our planet , and we , living on it , came to be .	所有這些機械裝置的使命都是人類更大的旅程之一:為了理解事物的旅程 , 為了理解宇宙 , 了解我們的起源 , 及地球 , 我們的地球 , 及我們居住的路程 。
and of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this , there's saturn . and we have been to saturn before we visited saturn in the early 1980s but our investigations of saturn have become far more indepth in detail since the cassini spacecraft , traveling across interplanetary space for seven years , glided into orbit around saturn in the summer of 2004 , and became at that point the farthest robotic outpost that humanity had ever established around the sun .	在太陽系中所有我們想去的地方 , 找到這樣的問題的解答 , 包括土星 。 我們曾到過土星 。 1980年代早期我們探訪過土星 。 但我們對土星的研究更加深入 , 卡西尼號太空船穿過星際空間長達七年之久 , 在2004年夏天時已達到軌道 , 成為人類所見過最遠離太陽系的機械裝置 。
now , the saturn system is a rich planetary system .	土星系統是個很豐富的行星系統 。
it offers mystery , scientific insight and obviously splendor beyond compare , and the investigation of this system has enormous cosmic reach .	它提供神秘的、科學的洞見 , 並且顯然超出比較的光彩 , 而這個系統的調查 , 對於宇宙的可觸及範圍非常巨大 。
in fact , just studying the rings alone , we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies .	事實上 , 單就研究光環 , 我們就能夠學到很多關於星星與氣體的光圈 。 我們稱之為螺旋星系 。
and here's a beautiful picture of the andromeda nebula , which is our closest , largest spiral galaxy to the milky way .	這是一張仙女座星系的美麗照片 , 這是我們最接近的 , 最大型的螺旋星系 。
and then , here's a beautiful composite of the whirlpool galaxy , taken by the hubble space telescope .	這裡有一幅美麗的旋風星系 , 由哈伯太空望遠鏡拍攝 。
so the journey back to saturn is really part of and is also a metaphor for a much larger human voyage to understand the interconnectedness of everything around us , and also how humans fit into that picture .	飛往土星的旅程是其中的一部分 , 也是一種比喻 , 比喻了人類更大的旅程 , 目的是要了解我們身邊所有事物的相互關聯性 , 以及人類對這張圖片的關聯性 。
and it pains me that i can't tell you all that we have learned with cassini .	這讓我很痛苦 , 我無法告訴各位 , 我們在卡西尼學過的一切 。
i can't show you all the beautiful pictures that we've taken in the last two and a half years , because i simply don't have the time .	我無法向各位展示我們在過去兩年半所拍攝的所有美麗照片 , 因為我根本沒有時間 。
so i'm going to concentrate on two of the most exciting stories that have emerged out of this major exploratory expedition that we are conducting around saturn , and have been for the past two and a half years .	我會專注於這次大型探險之旅當中 , 有兩件最令人振奮的故事 , 是我們在土星周圍進行的 , 兩年來都是如此 。
saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons .	陪伴在土星旁的是一大群不同的衛星 。
they range in size from a few kilometers across to as big across as the u . s .	它們的尺寸範圍從幾公里到大不等於美國 。
most of the beautiful pictures we've taken of saturn , in fact , show saturn in accompaniment with some of its moons . here's saturn with dione , and then , here's saturn showing the rings edgeon , showing you just how vertically thin they are , with the moon enceladus .	大部分我們拍攝土星的美麗圖片事實上 , 土星和它的一些衛星 。 這是土星和土星和土衛二 。 這是土衛六的圖像 , 這裡是土衛二的光環 , 顯示它們的直徑有多薄 。
now , two of the 47 moons that saturn has are standouts .	現在 , 土星47顆衛星中有兩顆特別裝備 。
and those are titan and enceladus . titan is saturn's largest moon , and , until cassini had arrived there , was the largest single expanse of unexplored terrain that we had remaining in our solar system .	這些是土衛六和土衛二的衛星 , 泰坦是土星最大的衛星 , 在卡西尼號到達之前 , 它是我們在太陽系中最大的未被探勘過的單獨地帶 。
and it is a body that has long intrigued people who've watched the planets .	它是長期以來關注這些行星的人們的身體 。
it has a very large , thick atmosphere , and in fact , its surface environment was believed to be more like the environment we have here on the earth , or at least had in the past , than any other body in the solar system .	它有很大、很厚的大氣層 , 事實上 , 它的地表環境被認為比較像我們在地球上的環境 , 至少在過去 , 與其它太陽系中的天體相比 , 它的地表環境更像 。
its atmosphere is largely molecular nitrogen , like you are breathing here in this room , except that its atmosphere is suffused with simple organic materials like methane and propane and ethane .	它的大氣中含有大量氮分子 , 就像你在這裡吸入的氮氣一樣 , 只不過它的大氣中有許多簡單的有機物質如甲烷、丙烷、丙烷等 。
and these molecules high up in the atmosphere of titan get broken down , and their products join together to make haze particles .	這些分子在泰坦的大氣層高高 , 分解 , 它們的產品結合在一起 , 製造出霧狀顆粒 。
this haze is ubiquitous . it's completely global and enveloping titan .	這霧狀物無所不在 , 它完全是全球化的 , 包圍著土衛六 。
and that's why you cannot see down to the surface with our eyes in the visible region of the spectrum .	那就是為什麼你不能用肉眼看到的光譜區域 。
but these haze particles , it was surmised , before we got there with cassini , over billions and billions of years , gently drifted down to the surface and coated the surface in a thick organic sludge .	但在卡西尼號到達之前 , 我們推測這些霧狀顆粒經過數十億年 , 溫和地漂浮在表面上 , 覆蓋在有機有機物的表面上 。
so like the equivalent , the titan equivalent , of tar , or oil , or what we didn't know what .	就像泰坦的焦油、油 , 或是我們不知道什麼 。
but this is what we suspected . and these molecules , especially methane and ethane , can be liquids at the surface temperatures of titan .	但這就是我們所猜測的 。 而這些分子 , 尤其是甲烷和乙烷 , 可以是土衛六地表溫度的液體 。
and so it turns out that methane is to titan what water is to the earth .	結果發現 , 甲烷是 「 土衛六 」 的標準 。
it's a condensable in the atmosphere , and so recognizing this circumstance brought to the fore a whole world of bizarre possibilities . you can have methane clouds , ok , and above those clouds , you have this hundreds of kilometers of haze , which prevent any sunlight from getting to the surface .	它在大氣中是冷凝的 , 所以認識到這種情況的存在 , 帶來了非常奇怪的可能性 。 你可以有甲烷雲 , 在這些雲之上 , 幾百公里寬的霧氣 , 阻止陽光照射到地表 。
the temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero fahrenheit .	地表的溫度是華氏零下350度 。
but despite that cold , you could have rain falling down on the surface of titan .	儘管很冷 , 土衛六上還是會下雨 。
and doing on titan what rain does on the earth: it carves gullies ; it forms rivers and cataracts ; it can create canyons ; it can pool in large basins and craters .	如同地球上的雨水 , 它會雕刻水溝 ; 它會形成河流和白內障 ; 它能形成峽谷 ; 大型盆地和隕石 。
it can wash the sludge off high mountain peaks and hills , down into the lowlands . so stop and think for a minute .	它可以把泥土從高山丘上沖到低地帶 。 停下來想一想 。
try to imagine what the surface of titan might look like .	試著想像土衛六的表面會是什麼樣子 。
it's dark . high noon on titan is as dark as deep earth twilight on the earth .	那裡一片漆黑 , 土衛六上的正中午 , 和地球上昏暗一樣黑暗 。
it's cold , it's eerie , it's misty , it might be raining , and you might be standing on the shores of lake michigan brimming with paint thinner .	那裡很冷 , 陰影 , 陰影偏霧 , 可能正在下雨 , 你可能還站在密西根湖的密西根湖邊 , 旁邊塗上油漆 。
that is the view that we had of the surface of titan before we got there with cassini , and i can tell you that what we have found on titan , though it is not the same in detail , is every bit as fascinating as that story is .	這是我們和卡西尼一起到達土衛六之前的樣子 , 我可以告訴各位 , 我們在土衛六上發現的 , 雖然它的細節不盡相同 , 和故事一樣迷人 。
and for us , it has been like the cassini people it has been like a jules verne adventure come true .	對我們來說 , 這就像卡西尼人 , 一切都像是陪審團的凡爾納冒險成真一樣 。
as i said , it has a thick , extensive atmosphere .	如我所說 , 它有很厚的大氣層 。
this is a picture of titan , backlit by the sun , with the rings as a beautiful backdrop .	這是土衛六的照片 , 背著太陽光 , 光環是美麗的背景 。
and yet another moon there i don't even know which one it is . it's a very extensive atmosphere .	另外一個衛星 , 我甚至不知道是哪一個 。 它是一層非常大的大氣 。
we have instruments on cassini which can see down to the surface through this atmosphere , and my camera system is one of them .	我們在卡西尼號上裝了儀器 , 它能透過大氣層向下看到表面 , 我的攝影系統就是其中之一 。
and we have taken pictures like this .	我們拍了像這樣的照片 。
and what you see is bright and dark regions , and that's about as far as it got for us .	你所看到的是明亮、黑暗的區域 , 且那幾乎就是我們能達到的程度 。
it was so mystifying: we couldn't make out what we were seeing on titan .	它是如此的神秘:我們無法找出我們在泰坦上看到的景象 。
when you look closer at this region , you start to see things like sinuous channels we didn't know . you see a few round things .	當你仔細看這個區域 , 你會開始看到一些東西 , 像是航道 , 我們不知道 。 你會看到一些圓形的東西 。
this , we later found out , is , in fact , a crater , but there are very few craters on the surface of titan , meaning it's a very young surface .	後來我們發現 , 這原來是一個隕石坑 , 但土衛六表面的隕石數量很少 , 這意味著土衛六的表面很年輕 。
and there are features that look tectonic .	有些特徵看起來是地質構造 。
they look like they've been pulled apart .	它們看起來像是被拉開了 。
whenever you see anything linear on a planet , it means there's been a fracture , like a fault .	每當你看到行星上有線性的東西 , 意味著地裂 , 例如一個斷層 。
and so it's been tectonically altered .	所以它已經被地質地改變了 。
but we couldn't make sense of our images , until , six months after we got into orbit , an event occurred that many have regarded as the highlight of cassini's investigation of titan .	但我們無法理解我們的影像 , 直到我們進入軌道六個月後 , 發生了一件大事 , 許多人都認為卡西尼探測土衛六的亮光 。
and that was the deployment of the huygens probe , the europeanbuilt huygens probe that cassini had carried for seven years across the solar system . we deployed it to the atmosphere of titan , it took two and a half hours to descend , and it landed on the surface .	這就是惠更斯號探測器在歐洲被建造的惠更斯號探測器在太陽系裡航行了七年 。 我們把它發射到土衛六的大氣中 , 花了兩個半小時才下降 , 降落在地表上 。
and i just want to emphasize how significant an event this is .	我只想強調這一件事有多重要 。
this is a device of human making , and it landed in the outer solar system for the first time in human history .	這是人類史上第一次在外太陽系中登陸的裝置 。
it is so significant that , in my mind , this was an event that should have been celebrated with ticker tape parades in every city across the u . s . and europe , and sadly , that wasn't the case .	在我心中 , 這實在是太重要了 , 我本來應該在每座美國和歐洲各地都舉辦這個活動 , 但遺憾的是 , 並非如此 。
it was significant for another reason . this is an international mission , and this event was celebrated in europe , in germany , and the celebratory presentations were given in english accents , and american accents , and german accents , and french and italian and dutch accents .	這是另一個重要的原因 。 這是個國際使命 , 這個事件在歐洲、德國被慶祝 , 慶祝慶祝以英文口音和美國口音、德文口音、法文、義大利和荷蘭口音 。
it was a moving demonstration of what the words " united nations " are supposed to mean: a true union of nations joined together in a colossal effort for good .	這是在分析 「 聯合國 」 一詞的分析中 , 代表的意思是:國家的真誠結合 , 全國一起努力 , 為大眾利益著想 。
and , in this case , it was a massive undertaking to explore a planet , and to come to understand a planetary system that , for all of human history , had been unreachable , and now humans had actually touched it .	在這個例子中 , 探索一個星球是一項龐大任務 , 為了了解一個星球系統 , 這個星球系統是人類歷史上所有地方都無法修改的 , 而現在 , 人類已經摸到了它 。
so it was i mean , i'm getting goose bumps just talking about it .	所以 , 我的意思是 , 我會起雞皮疙瘩就談及它 。
it was a tremendously emotional event , and it's something that i will personally never forget , and you shouldn't either .	那是非常情緒化的一件事 , 我個人永遠不會忘記 , 你也不該如此 。
but anyway , the probe took measurements of the atmosphere on the way down , and it also took panoramic pictures .	探測器在降落過程中對大氣進行了測量 , 並且拍攝了全景照片 。
and i can't tell you what it was like to see the first pictures of titan's surface from the probe . and this is what we saw .	我無法告訴各位 , 看見泰坦表面的第一張照片是什麼樣子 。 這是我們看到的景象 。
and it was a shocker , because it was everything we wanted those other pictures taken from orbit to be .	很震驚 , 因為這就是我們期待其他從軌道上拍下的照片 。
it was an unambiguous pattern , a geological pattern .	這是個明確的模式 , 地質模式 。
it's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids .	這種樹枝狀的排水模式只能透過液體的流動來形成 。
and you can follow these channels and you can see how they all converge .	你可以沿著這些管道看到它們如何合而為一
and they converge into this channel here , which drains into this region .	它們匯合到這條通道中 , 滲透到這個區域 。
you are looking at a shoreline .	你看到的是一條海岸線 。
was this a shoreline of fluids ? we didn't know .	這是液體的海岸線嗎 ? 我們不知道 。
but this is somewhat of a shoreline .	但這有點像是一條海岸線 。
this picture is taken at 16 kilometers .	這張照片是在16公里拍的 。
this is the picture taken at eight kilometers , ok ? again , the shoreline .	這是一張在8公里拍攝的照片 , 對吧 ? 再看一次 , 海岸線 。
okay , now , 16 kilometers , eight kilometers this is roughly an airline altitude .	好 , 現在 , 16公里 , 8公里--大概就是航空的高度 。
if you were going to take an airplane trip across the u . s . , you would be flying at these altitudes .	如果你要搭飛機橫跨美國 , 你會以這些高度飛行 。
so , this is the picture you would have at the window of titanian airlines as you fly across the surface of titan .	這是你在泰坦航空的窗戶上所能看到的景象 , 就在你飛越泰坦星表面的時候 。
and then finally , the probe came to rest on the surface , and i'm going to show you , ladies and gentlemen , the first picture ever taken from the surface of a moon in the outer solar system .	最後 , 探測器終於在表面上停留了下來 , 我會給你們看 , 女士們先生們 , 這是第一張外太陽系衛星表面的照片 。
and here is the horizon , ok ?	這是地平線 , 好嗎 ?
these are probably water ice pebbles , yes ?	這些可能是冰鵝卵石 , 對嗎 ?
and obviously , it landed in one of these flat , dark regions and it didn't sink out of sight . so it wasn't fluid that we landed in .	很明顯地 , 它落在了其中一塊平坦的黑色區域 , 它沒有沉沒在視野之中 。 所以它不是流體的 。
what the probe came down in was basically the titan equivalent of a mud flat .	基本上 , 探測器下降的速度相當於一片泥土平面 。
this is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane .	這是液態甲烷形成的半流體 。
and it's probably the case that this material has washed off the highlands of titan through these channels that we saw , and has drained over billions of years to fill in lowlying basins .	或許這種材料已經從土衛六的高地沖刷過 , 經過我們看到的這些通道 , 耗費了數十億年的時間來填滿低窪地帶 。
and that is what the huygens probe landed in .	這就是惠更斯號探測器著陸的地方 。
but still , there was no sign in our images , or even in the huygens' images , of any large , open bodies of fluids .	但是 , 我們仍然沒有出現在我們的影像中 , 甚至在惠更斯的影像中 , 任何大型開放的液體都沒有 。
where were they ? it got even more puzzling when we found dunes .	他們在哪裡 ? 當我們發現沙丘時 , 更讓人費解 。
ok , so this is our movie of the equatorial region of titan , showing these dunes . these are dunes that are 100 meters tall , separated by a few kilometers , and they go on for miles and miles and miles .	好 , 這是我們電影裡的赤道區域 , 展示這些沙丘 。 這些沙丘高度100公尺 , 由幾公里高的沙丘分離出來 , 它們跑上幾英里 , 走了好幾英里 。
there's hundreds , up to a 1 , 000 or 1 , 200 miles of dunes .	幾百英里高達一千或一千兩百英里的沙丘
this is the saharan desert of titan .	這是土衛六的撒哈拉沙漠 。
it's obviously a place which is very dry , or you wouldn't get dunes .	顯然這地方很乾燥 , 否則就不會有沙丘 。
so again , it got puzzling that there were no bodies of fluid , until finally , we saw lakes in the polar regions .	所以再一次 , 令人困惑的是沒有液體的體 , 直到我們終於看到極地的湖泊 。
and there is a lake scene in the south polar region of titan .	這是土衛六南極的一個湖 。
it's about the size of lake ontario .	它和安大略湖差不多大 。
and then , only a week and a half ago , we flew over the north pole of titan and found , again , we found a feature here the size of the caspian sea .	然後 , 一週半前 , 我們飛過北極 , 發現了相當於加勒比海大小的一個特徵 。
so it seems that the liquids , for some reason we don't understand , or during at least this season , are apparently at the poles of titan .	看來這些液體 , 是因為我們不了解的原因 , 或者至少這個季節 , 在泰坦的極地 。
and i think you would agree that we have found titan is a remarkable , mystical place . it's exotic , it's alien , but yet strangely earthlike , and having earthlike geological formations and a tremendous geographical diversity , and is a fascinating world whose only rival in the solar system for complexity and richness is the earth itself .	我想你會同意我們發現土衛六是個了不起、神秘的地方 。 它很奇怪 , 又像外星人 , 但又像地球 , 有著像地球的地貌和豐富的地理多樣性 。 它是一個非常迷人的世界 , 一個太陽系中唯一能和地球相對應的複雜性和豐富性才是地球 。
and so now we go onto enceladus . enceladus is a small moon , it's about a tenth the size of titan . and you can see it here next to england , just to show you the size . this is not meant to be a threat .	所以現在我們來到土衛二.土衛二是一個小型衛星 , 土衛六的尺寸只有土衛六的十分之一 , 你可以看到在英國旁邊的圖片 , 只是讓你們看看它的大小 。 這並不是說要當威脅 。
and enceladus is very white , it's very bright , and its surface is obviously wrecked with fractures .	土衛二很白很亮 , 它的表面有很明顯的裂痕 。
it is a very geologically active body .	它是地質上非常活躍的身體 。
but the mother lode of discoveries on enceladus was found at the south pole and we're looking at the south pole here where we found this system of fractures .	但在土衛二上的發現大多集中在南極我們現在看到的是南極 , 在這裡我們發現了這個系統斷裂 。
and they're a different color because they're a different composition .	它們的顏色不同 , 因為它們的成分不同 。
they are coated . these fractures are coated with organic materials .	它們被塗層 , 這些骨折覆蓋著有機物質 。
moreover , this whole , entire region , the south polar region , has elevated temperatures . it's the hottest place on the planet , on the body .	此外 , 整個南極地帶的溫度上升了 , 溫度在地球上最熱的地方 , 在身體上 。
that's as bizarre as finding that the antarctic on the earth is hotter than the tropics .	這有點奇怪 , 因為我們發現地球南極比熱帶地區還要熱 。
and then , when we took additional pictures , we discovered that from these fractures are issuing jets of fine , icy particles extending hundreds of miles into space .	然後 , 我們拍攝了更多照片 , 我們發現從這些地裂中 , 有細小的冰粒噴射出來 , 噴射到太空中數百英里 。
and when we colorcode this image , to bring out the faint light levels , we see that these jets feed a plume that , in fact , we see , in other images , goes thousands of miles into the space above enceladus .	當我們用顏色來編碼這個影像 , 以取得微弱的光線 , 我們可以看到這些噴射流在土衛二上方幾千英里處的空間裡 。
my team and i have examined images like this , and like this one , and have thought about the other results from cassini .	我和我的團隊檢視了像這樣的圖片 , 和這張圖片 , 想了卡西尼號的其它結果 。
and we have arrived at the conclusion that these jets may be erupting from pockets of liquid water under the surface of enceladus .	我們得出的結論是 , 這些噴流可能是從土衛二地表下的液態水坑噴發出來的 。
so we have , possibly , liquid water , organic materials and excess heat .	所以我們可能有液態水、有機物質和過剩的熱量 。
in other words , we have possibly stumbled upon the holy grail of modern day planetary exploration , or in other words , an environment that is potentially suitable for living organisms .	換句話說 , 我們有可能偶然發現了現代行星探索的聖杯 , 也就是說 , 一個可能適合生物生存的環境 。
and i don't think i need to tell you that the discovery of life elsewhere in our solar system , whether it be on enceladus or elsewhere , would have enormous cultural and scientific implications .	我想我不需要告訴各位 , 我們太陽系其他地方的發現 , 不論是土衛二或其它地方 , 都會有很大的文化和科學意涵 。
because if we could demonstrate that genesis had occurred not once , but twice , independently , in our solar system , then that means , by inference , it has occurred a staggering number of times throughout the universe and its 13 . 7 billion year history .	因為如果我們能夠證明創世紀已經發生過 , 不只一次 , 而是兩次 , 獨立在我們的太陽系中 , 那麼 , 推論一下 , 它已經發生了相當驚人的數次 , 遍及整個宇宙137億年的歷史 。
right now , earth is the only planet still that we know is teeming with life .	目前 , 地球仍是唯一一顆充滿生命的行星 。
it is precious , it is unique , it is still , so far , the only home we've ever known .	它很珍貴 , 它獨一無二 , 它依然是我們唯一的家 。
and if any of you were alert and coherent during the 1960s and we'd forgive you , if you weren't , ok you would remember this very famous picture taken by the apollo 8 astronauts in 1968 .	如果在座有人在1960年代時感到警覺和連貫 , 我們原諒你們 , 如果你沒有的話 , 你可能會記得1968年阿波羅8號太空人拍下的這張著名照片 。
it was the first time that earth was imaged from space , and it had an enormous impact on our sense of place in the universe , and our sense of responsibility for the protection of our own planet .	那是地球第一次從太空中拍攝出來 , 它對我們在宇宙中的位置產生了巨大的衝擊 , 我們對於保護地球的責任感也產生巨大的衝擊 。
well , we on cassini have taken an equivalent first , a picture that no human eye has ever seen before .	我們的卡西尼號同樣拍下了一張前所未見的照片 。
it is a total eclipse of the sun , seen from the other side of saturn .	它是日全蝕從土星的另一側拍攝的
and in this impossibly beautiful picture , you see the main rings backlit by the sun , you see the refracted image of the sun and you see this ring created , in fact , by the exhalations of enceladus .	在這個不可思議的美麗照片中 , 你看到背著太陽光的主光 , 你看到太陽折射的影像 , 還可以看到由土衛二的揭露出來的光環 。
but as if that weren't brilliant enough , we can spot , in this beautiful image , sight of our own planet , cradled in the arms of saturn's rings .	但如果這還不夠聰明 , 我們還能在這美麗的圖像中看到我們自己的星球 , 爬進了土星戒指的臂彎 。
now , there is something deeply moving about seeing ourselves from afar , and capturing the sight of our little , blueocean planet in the skies of other worlds .	對於從遠處看我們自己 , 有一點很深刻 , 深刻的感動 , 捕捉到我們在其他星球的視野 。
and that , and the perspective of ourselves that we gain from that , may be , in the end , the finest reward that we earn from this journey of discovery that started half a century ago .	而這個 , 和我們從中得到的認知 , 或許最終 , 我們從這次新發現之旅中獲得最好的獎賞 , 始於半個世紀前 。
as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped . this slows the delivery of aid after a disaster and hides the economic potential of unused lands and unknown roads . in this short talk , google's lalitesh katragadda demos map maker , a group mapmaking tool that people around the globe are using to map their world .	到了2005年 , 世界上只有15%的人被繪製圖 。 這會減緩災難後的援助 , 還隱藏未被使用的土地和未知道路的經濟潛力 。 簡短的演講中 , 谷歌的拉特加迪加迪亞德莫斯繪製了全球各地的人使用的地圖工具 。
collaboration , design , map , technology	合作、設計、地圖、科技和技術 。
lalitesh katragadda: making maps to fight disaster , build economies	已故的卡特加達:對抗災難的地圖 , 建立經濟 。
in 2008 , cyclone nargis devastated myanmar .	2008年 , 塞隆納格斯摧毀了緬甸 。
millions of people were in severe need of help .	數百萬人非常需要協助 。
the u . n . wanted to rush people and supplies to the area .	聯合國想把人民趕到那個區域 。
but there were no maps , no maps of roads , no maps showing hospitals , no way for help to reach the cyclone victims .	但沒有地圖、沒有道路地圖、沒有地圖顯示醫院、也沒有地圖協助抵達氣旋受害者 。
when we look at a map of los angeles or london , it is hard to believe that as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geocodable level of detail .	當我們看洛杉磯或倫敦的地圖時 , 很難相信到2005年 , 世界上只有15%的人被配上可編碼的細節 。
the u . n . ran headfirst into a problem that the majority of the world's populous faces: not having detailed maps .	聯合國也解決了世界上大部分人口人口問題:沒有詳細的地圖 。
but help was coming .	但救兵來了 。
at google , 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120 , 000 kilometers of roads , 3 , 000 hospitals , logistics and relief points .	在谷歌 , 有40位志願者使用了一套軟體標記了12萬公里的道路 , 3000間醫院 , 物流和救護站 。
and it took them four days .	他們花了四天的時間 。
the new software they used ? google mapmaker .	他們使用的軟體呢 ? googlemapmaker
google mapmaker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally .	googlemapmaker是一種科技 , 賦予我們每個人對地圖上的認知 。
people have used this software to map everything from roads to rivers , from schools to local businesses , and video stores to the corner store .	人們用這個軟體繪製出道路、河流、學校、當地企業 , 和影片商店的地點 。
nobel prize nominee hernando de soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land .	諾貝爾獎提名人hernandodesoto認爲開發中國家要發展經濟的關鍵是去掌握大量未清潔的土地
for example , a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapitalized in india alone .	舉例來說 , 光在印度就有價值一兆美元的房地產還沒有被列入管制 。
in the last year alone , thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information , and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable .	單單在去年170個國家數千名使用者已繪製了數百萬個資訊的地圖並創造了前所未有的精確度
and this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere .	這一切都是因為到處都有熱情的使用者的力量 。
let's look at some of the maps being created by users right now .	我們現在來看看使用者的地圖 。
so , as we speak , people are mapping the world in these 170 countries .	在這110個國家中 , 人們畫出世界地圖
you can see bridget in africa who just mapped a road in senegal .	你可以看到在非洲的橋樑剛剛為塞內加爾標了一條路
and , closer to home , chalua , an n . g . road in bangalore .	離家近一點 , chalua是班加羅爾一個n.g路口 。
this is the result of computational geometry , gesture recognition , and machine learning .	這是計算幾何學動作識別和機器學習的結果 。
this is a victory of thousands of users , in hundreds of cities , one user , one edit at a time .	這是數以千計使用者的勝利 , 在數百個城市中 , 一個使用者 , 一次一個編輯 。
this is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet .	這是個邀請 , 邀請我們70%未開發的星球 。
welcome to the new world .	歡迎來到新世界 。
in 2003 , the palestinian village of budrus mounted a 10monthlong nonviolent protest to stop a barrier being built across their olive groves . did you hear about it ? didn't think so . brazilian filmmaker julia bacha asks why we only pay attention to violence in the israelpalestine conflict and not to the nonviolent leaders who may one day bring peace .	2003年 , 巴勒斯坦村莊布德鲁斯村舉辦了十個月長的非暴力抗議活動 , 阻止了他們在橄欖樹林中築起的障礙 。 你聽見了嗎 ? 沒這麼想 。 巴西的電影製作人茱莉亞•巴查問為什麼我們只關注以色列內的暴力 , 而不是去找可能有一天會帶來和平的非暴力領導人 。
arts , communication , compassion , entertainment , film , peace , violence , war	藝術、溝通、同情心、娛樂、電影、和平戰爭、戰爭 。
julia bacha: pay attention to nonviolence	茱莉亞.巴哈:請注意非暴力手段 。
for the last 8 years , i have dedicated my life to documenting the work of israelis and palestinians who are trying to end the conflict using peaceful means .	過去8年來 , 我致力於記錄以色列和巴勒斯坦試圖用和平的方式來結束衝突的人們 。
when i travel with my work across europe and the united states , one question always comes up: where is the palestinian gandhi ?	當我在歐洲和美國各地旅行時 , 總是會有一個問題:巴勒斯坦的甘地在哪裡 ?
why aren't palestinians using nonviolent resistance ?	為什麼巴勒斯坦人不用非暴力的方式抗爭 ?
the challenge i face when i hear this question is that often i have just returned from the middle east where i spent my time filming dozens of palestinians who are using nonviolence to defend their lands and water resources from israeli soldiers and settlers .	當我聽到這個問題時 , 我所面臨的挑戰是 , 通常我剛從中東回來 , 我在那裡花了很多時間拍攝數十位巴勒斯坦人 , 他們用非暴力手段來捍衛他們的土地和水資源 , 來自以色列的士兵和移民者 。
these leaders are trying to forge a massive national nonviolent movement to end the occupation and build peace in the region .	這些領導人正嘗試偽造一個龐大的全國非暴力運動 , 來終結這個地區的佔領和平 。
yet , most of you have probably never heard about them .	但 , 大部分的人可能從未聽說過這些事 。
this divide between what's happening on the ground and perceptions abroad is one of the key reasons why we don't have yet a palestinian peaceful resistance movement that has been successful .	國外發生的事與國際感知之間的分歧 , 正是其中一個關鍵原因為什麼我們還沒有一場巴勒斯坦和平抗爭運動成功 。
so i'm here today to talk about the power of attention , the power of your attention , and the emergence and development of nonviolent movements in the west bank , gaza and elsewhere but today , my case study is going to be palestine .	所以我今天要來談關注的力量你的關注的力量以及非暴力運動在約旦河西岸、加薩和其他地方的興起與發展但今天我的個案將是巴勒斯坦
i believe that what's mostly missing for nonviolence to grow is not for palestinians to start adopting nonviolence , but for us to start paying attention to those who already are .	我相信要促進非暴力手段 , 最缺乏的不是巴勒斯坦人開始採用非暴力手段 , 而是要我們開始注意那些已經是非暴力手段的人 。
allow me to illustrate this point by taking you to this village called budrus .	讓我帶你進入這個名為布德魯斯的村子來說明這個點 。
about seven years ago , they faced extinction , because israel announced it would build a separation barrier , and part of this barrier would be built on top of the village .	大約七年前 , 他們面臨絕種 , 因為以色列宣佈要築起一道隔離屏障 , 當中的一部分是在這個村子的上面建造的 。
they would lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded , so they would lose free access to the rest of the west bank .	他們會失去40%的土地並被包圍 , 這樣他們就能自由地失去剩下的約旦河岸 。
through inspired local leadership , they launched a peaceful resistance campaign to stop that from happening .	透過當地領袖的鼓舞 , 他們發動了和平抗爭活動 , 來阻止這種事發生 。
let me show you some brief clips , so you have a sense for what that actually looked like on the ground .	讓我給你們看一些短片 , 你們可以了解在地面上到底是什麼樣子 。
palestinian woman: we were told the wall would separate palestine from israel .	巴勒斯坦女性:我們被告知 , 牆會和以色列分開巴勒斯坦 。
here in budrus , we realized the wall would steal our land .	在布德鲁斯村這裡 , 我們了解到那道牆將竊取我們的土地 。
israeli man: the fence has , in fact , created a solution to terror .	以色列人:這道牆其實是解決恐懼的方法 。
man: today you're invited to a peaceful march .	男人:今天你被邀請去一個和平的遊行 。
you are joined by dozens of your israeli brothers and sisters .	你加入了數十位你的以色列兄弟姐妹 。
israeli activist: nothing scares the army more than nonviolent opposition .	以色列抗議人士:軍隊害怕的就是非暴力抗爭 。
woman: we saw the men trying to push the soldiers , but none of them could do that .	女子:我們看到男人想推開士兵 , 但沒有人能做到 。
but i think the girls could do it .	但我認為女生們能做到 。
fatah party member: we must empty our minds of traditional thinking .	法塔赫黨員:我們必須清空腦中的傳統思想 。
hamas party member: we were in complete harmony , and we wanted to spread it to all of palestine .	哈馬斯黨員:我們是完全和諧的 , 我們想把它散播到巴勒斯坦 。
chanting: one united nation .	口號聲:一個聯合國 。
fatah , hamas and the popular front !	法塔赫、哈馬斯和受歡迎的陣線 !
news anchor: the clashes over the fence continue .	主播:圍牆上的衝突持續著 。
reporter: israeli border police were sent to disperse the crowd .	記者:以色列邊界警察被派來散播群眾 。
they were allowed to use any force necessary .	他們可以使用任何必要的力量 。
man: these are live bullets .	男子:這些是直彈 。
it's like fallujah . shooting everywhere .	這就像 「 費魯杰 」 射擊到處都是
israeli activist: i was sure we were all going to die .	以色列活動家:我相信我們都會死 。
but there were others around me who weren't even cowering .	但有些身邊的人甚至一點都不害怕 。
israeli soldier: a nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear] .	以色列士兵:非暴力抗爭無法阻止這【不清楚】
protester: this is a peaceful march .	抗議者:這是和平的遊行 。
there is no need to use violence .	不需要使用暴力 。
chanting: we can do it ! we can do it !	口號聲:我們做得到 ! 我們做得到 !
julia bacha: when i first heard about the story of budrus , i was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago , in 2003 .	朱莉亞•巴查:當我第一次聽到布德鲁斯村的故事時 , 我很驚訝國際媒體竟然沒有報導這一連串驚人的事件 , 那是在七年前 , 2003年的事 。
what was even more surprising was the fact that budrus was successful .	更令人驚訝的是布德鲁斯村成功了
the residents , after 10 months of peaceful resistance , convinced the israeli government to move the route of the barrier off their lands and to the green line , which is the internationally recognized boundary between israel and the palestinian territories .	居民抗爭十個月後說服了以色列政府將這道牆從他們的土地移開到綠線上也就是國際公認的以色列和巴勒斯坦領土間的界線
the resistance in budrus has since spread to villages across the west bank and to palestinian neighborhoods in jerusalem .	布德鲁斯村的抗爭自此散播到整個西岸的村落 , 以及耶路撒冷的巴勒斯坦人社區 。
yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories .	但媒體還是沉默在這些故事上 。
this silence carries profound consequences for the likelihood that nonviolence can grow , or even survive , in palestine .	這種沉默帶來了很大的影響 , 影響非暴力手段可能會成長 , 甚至在巴勒斯坦生存 。
violent resistance and nonviolent resistance share one very important thing in common ; they are both a form of theater seeking an audience to their cause .	暴力抗爭和非暴力抗爭都有一個非常重要的共通點 , 它們既是劇院 , 尋求其目標的觀眾 。
if violent actors are the only ones constantly getting frontpage covers and attracting international attention to the palestinian issue , it becomes very hard for nonviolent leaders to make the case to their communities that civil disobedience is a viable option in addressing their plight .	如果只有使用暴力的人才能上頭版 , 並吸引國際媒體關注巴勒斯坦的議題 , 那對非暴力領袖是非常困難的 , 要向他們的社區證明公民不服從是個可行的選項 , 要處理他們的困境 。
the power of attention is probably going to come as no surprise to the parents in the room .	關注的力量可能不會對在場的父母感到驚訝 。
the surest way to make your child throw increasingly louder tantrums is by giving him attention the first time he throws a fit .	讓小孩吵鬧的最好方式就是讓他第一次受到他的注意力 。
the tantrum will become what childhood psychologists call a functional behavior , since the child has learned that he can get parental attention out of it .	這種吵架會變成童年心理學家所說的功能性行為 , 因為孩子知道他可以藉此得到父母的注意力 。
parents can incentivize or disincentivize behavior simply by giving or withdrawing attention to their children .	父母能透過給予孩童注意力或戒斷行為 , 激勵或抑制孩童的注意力 。
but that's true for adults too .	但對成人也是如此 。
in fact , the behavior of entire communities and countries can be influenced , depending on where the international community chooses to focus its attention .	事實上 , 整個社區和國家的行為可以被影響 , 取決於國際社會選擇聚焦它的注意力 。
i believe that at the core of ending the conflict in the middle east and bringing peace is for us to transform nonviolence into a functional behavior by giving a lot more attention to the nonviolent leaders on the ground today .	我相信 , 結束中東的衝突並帶來和平的核心 , 就是要把非暴力抗爭轉變成一種功能性行為 , 做法是要讓非暴力的領袖更關注於現今的地面上非暴力的領導人 。
in the course of taking my film to villages in the west bank , in gaza and in east jerusalem , i have seen the impact that even one documentary film can have in influencing the transformation .	在拍攝約旦河西岸、加薩及東耶路撒冷的村子時 , 我看到了即使是一部紀錄片也能影響到轉變 。
in a village called wallajeh , which sits very close to jerusalem , the community was facing a very similar plight to budrus .	在瓦拉杰村 , 座落在耶路撒冷附近 , 這個社區正面臨和布德鲁斯村非常相似的困境 。
they were going to be surrounded , lose a lot of their lands and not have freedom of access , either to the west bank or jerusalem .	他們會被包圍 , 失去許多土地 , 沒有自由可用 , 可能是西岸或耶路撒冷 。
they had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention .	他們已經使用了兩年的非暴力手段 , 但已經開始變得不知所措 , 因為沒有人注意 。
so we organized a screening .	所以我們安排了一份篩檢 。
a week later , they held the most wellattended and disciplined demonstration to date .	一個禮拜後他們舉辦了目前為止最有成就感和紀律的示威
the organizers say that the villagers , upon seeing the story of budrus documented in a film , felt that there were indeed people following what they were doing , that people cared .	舉辦人說村民看到布德鲁斯村的故事被記錄在影片裡覺得確實有人在跟隨他們的腳步人們在乎
so they kept on going .	所以他們繼續前進 。
on the israeli side , there is a new peace movement called solidariot , which means solidarity in hebrew .	在以色列這邊有一個新的和平運動叫做索里德拉爾特 , 意即希伯來語中的團結 。
the leaders of this movement have been using budrus as one of their primary recruiting tools .	這項運動的領導人把布德鲁斯村當作主要的工具來招募 。
they report that israelis who had never been active before , upon seeing the film , understand the power of nonviolence and start joining their activities .	他們說以色列人從未參與過活動 , 在看過影片的時候 , 了解到非暴力的力量 , 並加入他們的活動 。
the examples of wallajeh and the solidariot movement show that even a smallbudget independent film can play a role in transforming nonviolence into a functional behavior .	瓦拉杰和索里德拉爾特的獨立製片的例子顯示即使只是一小段預算的獨立製片也能在將非暴力變成功能性行為中起到作用 。
now imagine the power that big media players could have if they started covering the weekly nonviolent demonstrations happening in villages like bil'in , ni'lin , wallajeh , in jerusalem neighborhoods like sheikh jarrah and silwan the nonviolent leaders would become more visible , valued and effective in their work .	想像一下大型媒體開始報導在村子裡每週的非暴力遊行時所產生的影響力 , 比如比利寧、尼林、瓦拉杰 , 在耶路撒冷的鄰里 , 像希克哈拉和西華的非暴力領導人 , 在他們的工作中變得更明顯、更有價值、更有效 。
i believe that the most important thing is to understand that if we don't pay attention to these efforts , they are invisible , and it's as if they never happened .	我相信最重要的是要了解 , 如果我們不注意這些努力 , 它們是看不見的 , 就好像從來沒有發生過一樣 。
but i have seen first hand that if we do , they will multiply .	但我首先看到了如果我們這樣做 , 它們就會繁殖 。
if they multiply , their influence will grow in the overall israelipalestinian conflict .	如果他們再乘上 , 他們的影響會在以巴衝突中成長 。
and theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation .	而他們的影響力就是那種能夠解開情況的影響力 。
these leaders have proven that nonviolence works in places like budrus .	這些領導人證明了非暴力是可行的在布德鲁斯村這樣的地方
let's give them attention so they can prove it works everywhere .	咱們來關注他們 , 讓他們能夠在任何地方證明它是可行的 。
simon sinek has a simple but powerful model for inspirational leadership all starting with a golden circle and the question " why ? " his examples include apple , martin luther king , and the wright brothers . . .	西蒙奈克有個簡單而強大的模式 , 能鼓舞人心的領導 , 始於黃金圈和 「 為什麼 」 , 他的例子包括蘋果、馬丁路德金 , 以及萊特兄弟 。
bullseye , business , entrepreneur , leadership , sales , selling , success	bullseye , 商業 , 企業家 , 領導力 , 銷售 , 賣 , 成功 。
simon sinek: how great leaders inspire action	simonsinek:偉大的領導人如何啟發行動 ?
how do you explain when things don't go as we assume ?	你要怎麼解釋當事情不如我們所想時 ?
or better , how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions ?	或者更好的是 , 你如何解釋當其他人能夠完成似乎違反所有假設的情況 ?
for example: why is apple so innovative ?	比如:為什麼蘋果電腦這麼有創意 ?
year after year , after year , after year , they're more innovative than all their competition .	年復一年 , 年復一年 , 他們比他們所有的競爭都更有創意 。
and yet , they're just a computer company .	然而 , 他們只是一家電腦公司 。
they're just like everyone else .	他們就像其他人一樣 。
they have the same access to the same talent , the same agencies , the same consultants , the same media .	他們有同樣的機會可以接觸到同樣才華、同樣的機構、同樣的顧問、同樣的媒體 。
then why is it that they seem to have something different ?	那麼為什麼他們似乎有所不同 ?
why is it that martin luther king led the civil rights movement ?	為什麼是馬丁•路德•金恩領導民權運動 ?
he wasn't the only man who suffered in a precivil rights america , and he certainly wasn't the only great orator of the day .	他不是唯一一個在美國受到平等公民權苦難的人 , 而且他肯定不是當時唯一的偉大演說家 。
and why is it that the wright brothers were able to figure out controlled , powered man flight when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified , better funded . . .	為什麼是萊特兄弟能夠想出控制權 , 操控人類飛機當飛機的確有其他團隊更有資格 , 更有資金
and they didn't achieve powered man flight , and the wright brothers beat them to it .	他們沒有達成人類飛行的成就 , 萊特兄弟打敗了他們 。
there's something else at play here .	這裡還有其他東西在玩 。
about three and a half years ago i made a discovery .	大約三年半前我有一個發現
and this discovery profoundly changed my view on how i thought the world worked , and it even profoundly changed the way in which i operate in it .	這個發現深深地改變了我對世界運作方式的看法 , 甚至深深地改變了我運作的方式 。
as it turns out , there's a pattern .	事實證明 , 有一個模式 。
as it turns out , all the great and inspiring leaders and organizations in the world whether it's apple or martin luther king or the wright brothers they all think , act and communicate the exact same way .	結果是 , 世界上所有偉大、鼓舞人心的領導人和組織 , 不論是蘋果、馬丁路德金、華特兄弟 , 他們都用同樣的方式來思考、行動和溝通 。
and it's the complete opposite to everyone else .	這完全和其他人相反 。
all i did was codify it , and it's probably the world's simplest idea .	我所做的就是將它編碼 , 很可能是世界上最簡單的想法 。
i call it the golden circle .	我稱它為黃金圈 。
why ? how ? what ?	為什麼 ? 怎麼做 ? 什麼 ?
this little idea explains why some organizations and some leaders are able to inspire where others aren't .	這個小小的點子解釋了為什麼有些組織和一些領導人能夠激發別人不在的地方 。
let me define the terms really quickly .	讓我很快地定義這個詞 。
every single person , every single organization on the planet knows what they do , 100 percent .	每一個人 , 地球上的每一個組織都知道他們在做什麼 , 百分之百知道他們在做什麼 。
some know how they do it , whether you call it your differentiated value proposition or your proprietary process or your usp .	有些人知道如何做 , 不論你稱它為你不同的價值主張、屬性過程 , 或你的usp 。
but very , very few people or organizations know why they do what they do .	但很少人或機構知道他們為什麼要做他們的事 。
and by " why " i don't mean " to make a profit . "	我說的 「 為什麼 」 並不是 「 為了賺錢 」 。
that's a result . it's always a result .	這是結果 。 它永遠是結果 。
by " why , " i mean: what's your purpose ?	被 「 為什麼 」 我的意思是:你的目的是什麼 ?
what's your cause ? what's your belief ?	你的起因是什麼 ? 你的信念是什麼 ?
why does your organization exist ?	為什麼你的組織存在 ?
why do you get out of bed in the morning ?	為什麼你早上要起床 ?
and why should anyone care ?	為什麼有人要在乎 ?
well , as a result , the way we think , the way we act , the way we communicate is from the outside in .	結果就是 , 我們思考的方式、行為的方式、我們的溝通方式都來自於外在 。
it's obvious . we go from the clearest thing to the fuzziest thing .	這很明顯 。 我們從最清楚到最模糊不清的東西 。
but the inspired leaders and the inspired organizations regardless of their size , regardless of their industry all think , act and communicate from the inside out .	但激勵人心的領導者和激勵人心的組織 , 不論它們的規模 , 不論它們的產業都把思考、行動和溝通從內而外傳 。
let me give you an example .	讓我舉個例子 。
i use apple because they're easy to understand and everybody gets it .	我用蘋果電腦是因為它很容易懂 , 每個人都懂 。
if apple were like everyone else , a marketing message from them might sound like this: " we make great computers .	如果蘋果電腦和其他人一樣 , 它的行銷訊息可能會像這樣: 「 我們製造出很好的電腦 。
they're beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	它們有著完美的設計 , 簡單的使用 , 友善的使用 。
want to buy one ? " " meh . "	想買一台嗎 ? 」
and that's how most of us communicate .	這就是我們大多數人溝通的方式 。
that's how most marketing is done , that's how most sales is done and that's how most of us communicate interpersonally .	這就是多數行銷手段的運作方式 , 多數銷售手段也是多數人與人之間的溝通方式 。
we say what we do , we say how we're different or how we're better and we expect some sort of a behavior , a purchase , a vote , something like that .	我們說我們做了什麼 , 我們說我們如何不同或我們如何好 , 我們期待某種行為、購買行為、投票等等 。
here's our new law firm: we have the best lawyers with the biggest clients , we always perform for our clients who do business with us .	這是我們的新法律事務所:我們有最好的律師 , 裡面有最好的客戶 , 我們總是為和我們做生意的客戶做生意 。
here's our new car: it gets great gas mileage , it has leather seats , buy our car .	這是我們的新車:它有很好的氣體里程數 , 有皮革座椅 , 買我們的車 。
here's how apple actually communicates .	這裡是蘋果電腦實際溝通的方式 。
" everything we do , we believe in challenging the status quo .	「 我們所做的一切 , 我們相信挑戰現狀 。
we believe in thinking differently .	我們相信用不同的角度思考 。
the way we challenge the status quo is by making our products beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	我們挑戰現狀的方式是把我們的產品設計得很漂亮 , 很容易使用 , 很友善 。
we just happen to make great computers .	我們剛好製造了很棒的電腦 。
want to buy one ? "	想買一台嗎 ? 」
totally different right ? you're ready to buy a computer from me .	完全不一樣嗎 ? 你準備從我身上買一台電腦 。
all i did was reverse the order of the information .	我所做的只是反轉資訊的順序 。
what it proves to us is that people don't buy what you do ; people buy why you do it .	這證明了人們不買你做什麼 ; 人們買你的為什麼 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼
this explains why every single person in this room is perfectly comfortable buying a computer from apple .	這解釋了為什麼在座的每個人都對買蘋果電腦感到相當自在 。
but we're also perfectly comfortable buying an mp3 player from apple , or a phone from apple , or a dvr from apple .	但我們也非常舒服地買蘋果電腦的mp3播放器或蘋果電腦的手機或蘋果電腦的dvr
but , as i said before , apple's just a computer company .	但是 , 正如我之前所說 , 蘋果電腦只是一家電腦公司 。
there's nothing that distinguishes them structurally from any of their competitors .	沒有什麼能把他們和任何競爭者在結構上區別開來 。
their competitors are all equally qualified to make all of these products .	他們的競爭對手都是同樣有資格做出這些產品 。
in fact , they tried .	事實上 , 他們試過 。
a few years ago , gateway came out with flat screen tvs .	幾年前 , gateway推出了平面電視 。
they're eminently qualified to make flat screen tvs .	他們很明顯夠資格製作平面電視 。
they've been making flat screen monitors for years .	他們已經做平面螢幕好幾年了 。
dell came out with mp3 players and pdas , and they make great quality products , and they can make perfectly welldesigned products and nobody bought one .	戴爾博士發明了mp3播放器和pda , 他們也能做出很好的品質產品 , 而且他們能做出完美設計的產品 , 但沒有人買 。
in fact , talking about it now , we can't even imagine buying an mp3 player from dell .	事實上 , 我們現在甚至無法想像從戴爾電腦買一台mp3播放器 。
why would you buy an mp3 player from a computer company ?	為什麼你會從電腦公司買mp3播放器 ?
but we do it every day .	但我們每天都在做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼
the goal is not to do business with everybody who needs what you have .	目標不是與所有需要你所擁有的人做生意 。
the goal is to do business with people who believe what you believe .	目標是要和相信你所相信的人做生意 。
here's the best part: none of what i'm telling you is my opinion .	最棒的是:我告訴你們的都不是我的意見 。
it's all grounded in the tenets of biology .	這都是從生物學角度看的 。
not psychology , biology .	不是心理學、生物學 。
if you look at a crosssection of the human brain , looking from the top down , what you see is the human brain is actually broken into three major components that correlate perfectly with the golden circle .	如果你看一下人腦的橫切面從上往下看你會看到人腦其實是分成三個主要元素與黃金圈完美相關
our newest brain , our homo sapien brain , our neocortex , corresponds with the " what " level .	我們的最新大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的新皮層 , 都對應到 「 什麼 」 層次 。
the neocortex is responsible for all of our rational and analytical thought and language .	大腦皮層負責我們所有的理性、分析的想法和語言 。
the middle two sections make up our limbic brains , and our limbic brains are responsible for all of our feelings , like trust and loyalty .	中間兩個部分組成我們邊緣的腦 , 我們的邊緣腦負責所有的感受 , 比如信任和忠誠 。
it's also responsible for all human behavior , all decisionmaking , and it has no capacity for language .	它也同時負責所有人類的行為所有的決策而且它沒有語言的能力
in other words , when we communicate from the outside in , yes , people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features and benefits and facts and figures .	換句話說 , 當我們從外而內溝通時是的 , 人們可以理解非常複雜的資訊量像是特色、好處、事實和數字
it just doesn't drive behavior .	它就是無法驅動行為 。
when we can communicate from the inside out , we're talking directly to the part of the brain that controls behavior , and then we allow people to rationalize it with the tangible things we say and do .	當我們能由內而外溝通時 , 我們就正對著大腦控制行為的區塊說話 , 然後我們允許人們去合理化它 , 用我們所說的有形事物去做 。
this is where gut decisions come from .	決策就是這樣來的 。
you know , sometimes you can give somebody all the facts and figures , and they say , " i know what all the facts and details say , but it just doesn't feel right . "	有時候你會給別人所有的事實和數字 , 他們會說: 「 我知道事實和細節是什麼 , 但感覺就是不對的 。 」
why would we use that verb , it doesn't " feel " right ?	為什麼我們要用這個動詞 , 沒有 「 感覺 」 呢 ?
because the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking doesn't control language .	因為控制決策的腦並不控制語言
and the best we can muster up is , " i don't know . it just doesn't feel right . "	我們最多能整理出的是: 「 我不知道 , 感覺不太對勁 。 」
or sometimes you say you're leading with your heart , or you're leading with your soul .	或者 , 有時你說你在帶著你的心 , 或你在帶著你的靈魂領導 。
well , i hate to break it to you , those aren't other body parts controlling your behavior .	嗯 , 我很不想跟你們說 , 這些都不是身體的其他部位控制你的行為 。
it's all happening here in your limbic brain , the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking and not language .	這一切都發生在你邊緣的腦裡 , 控制決策的腦 , 而不是語言 。
but if you don't know why you do what you do , and people respond to why you do what you do , then how will you ever get people to vote for you , or buy something from you , or , more importantly , be loyal and want to be a part of what it is that you do .	但如果你不知道為什麼你做你所做的事 , 人們會回應為什麼你做你所做的事 , 那麼你如何才能讓人們為你投票 , 或是向你買東西 , 或更重要的是 , 忠誠和想要成為你所做的事的一部分 。
again , the goal is not just to sell to people who need what you have ; the goal is to sell to people who believe what you believe .	同樣的 , 目標不只是要賣給需要你所擁有的人 ; 目標是要賣給那些相信你所相信的人們 。
the goal is not just to hire people who need a job ; it's to hire people who believe what you believe .	目標不是只在雇用需要工作的人而是要雇用那些相信你所相信的事的人
i always say that , you know , if you hire people just because they can do a job , they'll work for your money , but if you hire people who believe what you believe , they'll work for you with blood and sweat and tears .	我總是這麼說 , 你知道 , 如果你雇用員工 , 因為他們可以做事 , 他們會為了你的錢而工作 , 但如果你雇用相信你所相信的人 , 他們將會用血汗和淚水幫你工作 。
and nowhere else is there a better example of this than with the wright brothers .	沒有比萊特兄弟更好的例子了 。
most people don't know about samuel pierpont langley .	大部分的人不知道samuelpierpontlangley 。
and back in the early 20th century , the pursuit of powered man flight was like the dot com of the day .	回到二十世紀初 , 追求人類飛翔就像當時的網路公司一樣 。
everybody was trying it .	每個人都在嘗試 。
and samuel pierpont langley had , what we assume , to be the recipe for success .	samuelpierpontlangley曾經擁有 , 我們假設的成功之處 。
i mean , even now , you ask people , " why did your product or why did your company fail ? "	我的意思是 , 即使是現在 , 你也會問人們: 「 為什麼你的產品或你的公司失敗了 ? 」
and people always give you the same permutation of the same three things: undercapitalized , the wrong people , bad market conditions .	人們總是給你同樣的三樣東西:不足以支配 , 不適合的人 , 市場環境不良 。
it's always the same three things , so let's explore that .	這三件事都是一樣的 , 所以讓我們來探討一下 。
samuel pierpont langley was given 50 , 000 dollars by the war department to figure out this flying machine .	samuelpierpontlangley從國防部得到5萬美金來研發這飛行機器
money was no problem .	資金根本沒問題 。
he held a seat at harvard and worked at the smithsonian and was extremely wellconnected ; he knew all the big minds of the day .	他擔任哈佛大學的席位 , 在史密森工作 , 和他有著極為相連的關係 , 他認識了當天所有的大人 。
he hired the best minds money could find and the market conditions were fantastic .	他聘用了最好的心靈資金 , 而市場狀況非常好 。
the new york times followed him around everywhere , and everyone was rooting for langley .	紐約時報跟著他到處跑 , 每個人都為langley加油 。
then how come we've never heard of samuel pierpont langley ?	為什麼我們從來沒有聽過samuelpierpontlangley ?
a few hundred miles away in dayton ohio , orville and wilbur wright , they had none of what we consider to be the recipe for success .	幾百英里外的俄亥俄州 , 俄維爾和威爾伯•萊特 , 他們完全沒有我們認為的成功關鍵 。
they had no money ; they paid for their dream with the proceeds from their bicycle shop ; not a single person on the wright brothers' team had a college education , not even orville or wilbur ; and the new york times followed them around nowhere .	他們沒有錢 ; 他們付錢給他們的夢想 , 用他們的腳踏車店的收入 ; 萊特兄弟團隊沒有一個人受大學教育 , 連歐維爾或威布爾 ; 紐約時報也沒有在任何地方追蹤他們 。
the difference was , orville and wilbur were driven by a cause , by a purpose , by a belief .	差別在於 , 歐維爾和威爾布是因爲目標和信念而驅動的 。
they believed that if they could figure out this flying machine , it'll change the course of the world .	他們相信 , 如果他們能想出這架飛行機器 , 它會改變世界的軌道 。
samuel pierpont langley was different .	samuelpierpontlangley不同 。
he wanted to be rich , and he wanted to be famous .	他想變得富有 , 他想要成名 。
he was in pursuit of the result .	他在追求結果 。
he was in pursuit of the riches .	他在追求富人 。
and lo and behold , look what happened .	你看 , 看看發生了什麼事 。
the people who believed in the wright brothers' dream worked with them with blood and sweat and tears .	相信萊特兄弟的夢想的人用血汗和淚水和他們一同努力 。
the others just worked for the paycheck .	其他人則是為了賺錢而工作 。
and they tell stories of how every time the wright brothers went out , they would have to take five sets of parts , because that's how many times they would crash before they came in for supper .	他們會說故事 , 每當萊特兄弟出門 , 他們就得拿出五套零件 , 因為這是他們出門前會墜機的次數 。
and , eventually , on december 17th , 1903 , the wright brothers took flight , and no one was there to even experience it .	最後 , 在1903年12月17日萊特兄弟起飛 , 甚至沒有人能體驗它 。
we found out about it a few days later .	我們在幾天後發現這件事 。
and further proof that langley was motivated by the wrong thing: the day the wright brothers took flight , he quit .	更進一步的證明langley被錯誤的動機所驅使當萊特兄弟起飛那天 , 他辭職了
he could have said , " that's an amazing discovery , guys , and i will improve upon your technology , " but he didn't .	他可能會說: 「 這真是很了不起的發現 , 各位 , 我會改善你們的技術 。 」 但他沒有 。
he wasn't first , he didn't get rich , he didn't get famous so he quit .	他不是第一人 , 他沒有變有錢 , 也沒有變有名 , 所以他辭職了 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼
and if you talk about what you believe , you will attract those who believe what you believe .	如果你談論你所相信的事物 , 你會吸引那些相信你所相信的人們 。
but why is it important to attract those who believe what you believe ?	但 , 為什麼吸引那些相信你所相信的人們很重要 ?
something called the law of diffusion of innovation , and if you don't know the law , you definitely know the terminology .	所謂創意的散播法則 , 如果你不知道這個法則 , 你絕對知道這個術語 。
the first two and a half percent of our population are our innovators .	我們人口中前2.5%的人口是創新者 。
the next 13 and a half percent of our population are our early adopters .	接下來的13.5%是早期使用者 。
the next 34 percent are your early majority , your late majority and your laggards .	接下來的34%是早期的多數 , 晚期的多數和低落 。
the only reason these people buy touch tone phones is because you can't buy rotary phones anymore .	這些人買觸控電話的唯一理由是你再也買不到輪迴電話了 。
we all sit at various places at various times on this scale , but what the law of diffusion of innovation tells us is that if you want massmarket success or massmarket acceptance of an idea , you cannot have it until you achieve this tipping point between 15 and 18 percent market penetration , and then the system tips .	我們在不同時間坐在不同地點 , 以這樣的規模坐在不同的地方 , 但創新的散播法則告訴我們 , 如果你想要大眾市場成功或大眾市場接受一個想法 , 你就不能擁有它 , 直到你達到了在15%到18%之間的市場侵犯點 , 然後系統就會一面倒 。
and i love asking businesses , " what's your conversion on new business ? "	我喜歡問企業: 「 你對新事業的轉變是什麼 ? 」
and they love to tell you , " oh , it's about 10 percent , " proudly .	他們很願意很驕傲地告訴你: 「 喔 , 大約10% 。 」
well , you can trip over 10 percent of the customers .	嗯 , 你可以追蹤超過10%的客戶 。
we all have about 10 percent who just " get it . "	我們都有10%的 「 了解它 」 。
that's how we describe them , right ?	我們就是這樣描述它們的 , 對吧 ?
that's like that gut feeling , " oh , they just get it . "	就好像那種直覺的感覺: 「 喔 , 他們就是懂的 。 」
the problem is: how do you find the ones that get it before you're doing business with them versus the ones who don't get it ?	問題是:在你做生意之前 , 要如何找到那些拿到卻沒有拿到的人 ?
so it's this here , this little gap that you have to close , as jeffrey moore calls it , " crossing the chasm " because , you see , the early majority will not try something until someone else has tried it first .	正如同傑弗里•摩爾所說的 " 跨越鴻溝 " , 你看 , 早期大多數人不會嘗試什麼 , 除非他人先嘗試 。
and these guys , the innovators and the early adopters , they're comfortable making those gut decisions .	這些人、發明家、早期採用者 , 他們都很自在地做這些直覺決策 。
they're more comfortable making those intuitive decisions that are driven by what they believe about the world and not just what product is available .	他們對做這些直覺的決定感到更自在 , 驅動著他們對世界的信念 , 而不只是產品的可得性 。
these are the people who stood in line for six hours to buy an iphone when they first came out , when you could have just walked into the store the next week and bought one off the shelf .	這些人排了六個小時買了一支iphone剛上市 , 下星期你還可以走進商店買下一支離架上的iphone 。
these are the people who spent 40 , 000 dollars on flat screen tvs when they first came out , even though the technology was substandard .	這些人剛上市時花了四萬美元在平面電視上即使這項科技還在未被實踐
and , by the way , they didn't do it because the technology was so great ; they did it for themselves .	順帶一提 , 他們沒有這麼做 , 因為這項技術很棒 , 他們是為了自己而做 。
it's because they wanted to be first .	那是因為他們想要當第一個 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it and what you do simply proves what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼而你做什麼就證明了你相信什麼
in fact , people will do the things that prove what they believe .	事實上 , 人們會做那些證明他們所相信的事
the reason that person bought the iphone in the first six hours , stood in line for six hours , was because of what they believed about the world , and how they wanted everybody to see them: they were first .	人們買iphone的理由是在半小時內排隊排六個小時 , 是因為他們相信這個世界 , 以及他們希望所有人看到他們:他們是第一 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼
so let me give you a famous example , a famous failure and a famous success of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我舉一個有名的例子 , 一個有名的失敗以及有名的成功關於創意的散播法則 。
first , the famous failure .	第一 , 著名的失敗 。
it's a commercial example .	這是一個商業上的例子 。
as we said before , a second ago , the recipe for success is money and the right people and the right market conditions , right ? you should have success then .	如我們前面所說 , 第二 , 成功的關鍵就是金錢 , 對的人和對的市場環境 , 對嗎 ? 你當時應該要有成功 。
from the time tivo came out about eight or nine years ago to this current day , they are the single highestquality product on the market , hands down , there is no dispute .	大約八、九年前 , tivo上市後 , 至今 , 它們是市場上最高品質的產品 , 手放下 , 完全沒有爭議 。
they were extremely wellfunded .	資金非常充足 。
market conditions were fantastic .	市場的狀況很棒 。
i mean , we use tivo as verb .	我的意思是 , 我們把tivo當作動詞 。
i tivo stuff on my piece of junk time warner dvr all the time .	我總是tivo東西在我時代華納dvr的垃圾上 。
but tivo's a commercial failure .	但tivo卻失敗了 。
they've never made money .	他們從來沒有賺到錢 。
and when they went ipo , their stock was at about 30 or 40 dollars and then plummeted , and it's never traded above 10 .	他們上了ipo之後股票價格大約是30到40美元然後從未超過10美元交易過
in fact , i don't think it's even traded above six , except for a couple of little spikes .	事實上 , 我不認為在6號以上交易 , 除非有幾個小突點 。
because you see , when tivo launched their product they told us all what they had .	因為你看 , 當tivo推出他們的產品時 , 他們告訴我們他們擁有的一切 。
they said , " we have a product that pauses live tv , skips commercials , rewinds live tv and memorizes your viewing habits without you even asking . "	他們說: 「 我們有一個可以暫停現場電視的產品 , 跳過商業廣告 , 回播現場電視 , 記下你的收視習慣 , 連問都沒有 。 」
and the cynical majority said , " we don't believe you .	憤世嫉俗的大多數人說: 「 我們不相信你 。
we don't need it . we don't like it .	我們不需要它 , 我們不喜歡它 。
you're scaring us . "	你嚇到我們了 。 」
what if they had said , " if you're the kind of person who likes to have total control over every aspect of your life , boy , do we have a product for you .	如果他們說: 「 如果你是那種想要完全掌控生活各個層面的人 , 各位 , 我們有一項產品給你 。
it pauses live tv , skips commercials , memorizes your viewing habits , etc . , etc . "	它可以暫停現場電視、跳過商業廣告、記住你的收視習慣等等 。 」
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it , and what you do simply serves as the proof of what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你的為什麼而你做什麼僅僅是你相信什麼的證明
now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我舉一個成功的例子來說明創意的散播法則 。
in the summer of 1963 , 250 , 000 people showed up on the mall in washington to hear dr . king speak .	1963年夏天 , 25萬人來到華盛頓的購物中心聽金恩博士演說 。
they sent out no invitations , and there was no website to check the date .	他們沒有寄出任何一張邀請函 , 也沒有網站去查看日期 。
how do you do that ?	該怎麼做呢 ?
well , dr . king wasn't the only man in america who was a great orator .	金恩博士不是美國唯一一個偉大的演說家
he wasn't the only man in america who suffered in a precivil rights america .	他不是在美國唯一一個受到早期公民權威脅的人
in fact , some of his ideas were bad .	事實上 , 他的一些點子很糟 。
but he had a gift .	但他有一個禮物 。
he didn't go around telling people what needed to change in america .	他沒有到處告訴人們在美國需要什麼樣的改變 。
he went around and told people what he believed .	他四處告訴人們他所相信的 。
" i believe , i believe , i believe , " he told people .	「 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 。 」 他告訴人們 。
and people who believed what he believed took his cause , and they made it their own , and they told people .	而相信他所相信的人們接受了他的觀點 , 使它成為他們自己的目標 , 他們也告訴人們 。
and some of those people created structures to get the word out to even more people .	有些人創造了一些結構 , 讓更多人知道 。
and lo and behold , 250 , 000 people showed up on the right day at the right time to hear him speak .	你看 , 25 , 000人在正確的日子裡 , 剛好聽到他的演說 。
how many of them showed up for him ?	有多少人為了他而出現 ?
they showed up for themselves .	他們為了他們自己出現 。
it's what they believed about america that got them to travel in a bus for eight hours to stand in the sun in washington in the middle of august .	這是他們所相信的美國 , 讓他們在八月中期 , 搭公車 , 在華盛頓的陽光下穿梭 。
it's what they believed , and it wasn't about black versus white: 25 percent of the audience was white .	這是他們所相信的 , 重點不是黑人和白人25%的觀眾是白人
dr . king believed that there are two types of laws in this world: those that are made by a higher authority and those that are made by man .	金恩博士相信在這個世界上有兩種不同的法律:一種由較高權威制定的法律 , 和由人類制定的法律 。
and not until all the laws that are made by man are consistent with the laws that are made by the higher authority will we live in a just world .	除非所有人類所制定的法律與更高權威制定的法律一致 , 否則我們將生活在一個公平的世界 。
it just so happened that the civil rights movement was the perfect thing to help him bring his cause to life .	正巧公民權運動是幫助他生命的最佳成就 。
we followed , not for him , but for ourselves .	我們追隨 , 不是為了他 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and , by the way , he gave the " i have a dream " speech , not the " i have a plan " speech .	順帶一提 , 他發表了 「 我有一個夢想 」 演講 , 而不是 「 我有一個計畫 」 的演講 。
listen to politicians now , with their comprehensive 12point plans .	現在聽政客用他們完整的12點計畫
they're not inspiring anybody .	他們沒有激勵任何人 。
because there are leaders and there are those who lead .	因為有一些領導者 , 也有那些領導者 。
leaders hold a position of power or authority , but those who lead inspire us .	領導者持有權力或權威的位置 , 但那些領導的人啟發了我們 。
whether they're individuals or organizations , we follow those who lead , not because we have to , but because we want to .	不論是個人或組織我們跟隨那些領導的人不是因為我們必須而是因為我們想要
we follow those who lead , not for them , but for ourselves .	我們跟隨那些領導的人 , 不是為了他們 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and it's those who start with " why " that have the ability to inspire those around them or find others who inspire them .	是那些以 「 為什麼 」 開頭的人 , 能夠啟發他們身邊的人 , 或找到鼓舞他們的人 。
how do you remember where you parked your car ? how do you know if you're moving in the right direction ? neuroscientist neil burgess studies the neural mechanisms that map the space around us , and how they link to memory and imagination .	你要怎麼記住車子停在哪裡 ? 你要怎麼知道你正朝著正確的方向移動 ? 神經科學家neilburges研究我們周圍的神經機制 , 以及他們如何與記憶和想像力連結 。
brain , cognitive science , exploration , neuroscience , science	大腦、認知科學、探索、神經科學、科學 ,
neil burgess: how your brain tells you where you are	neilburges:你的大腦如何告訴你你在哪裡 。
when we park in a big parking lot , how do we remember where we parked our car ?	當我們把車停在一個很大的停車場 , 我們要如何記得我們停在哪裡 ?
here's the problem facing homer .	荷馬面對了一個問題 。
and we're going to try to understand what's happening in his brain .	我們要試著去了解他的大腦到底發生了什麼事 。
so we'll start with the hippocampus , shown in yellow , which is the organ of memory .	我們先從海馬體開始 , 用黃色標示 , 也就是記憶的器官 。
if you have damage there , like in alzheimer's , you can't remember things including where you parked your car .	如果你的身體有損傷 , 就像阿茲海默症一樣 , 你就無法記住很多東西 , 包括你停車的地方 。
it's named after latin for " seahorse , " which it resembles .	它的名字是以拉丁文 " 海馬 " 命名 , 和它相似 。
and like the rest of the brain , it's made of neurons .	如同其餘的腦 , 它是由神經元所構成的 。
so the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it .	人腦內有大約一千億個神經元 。
and the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other .	神經元藉由電脈衝或電流刺激相互交流而彼此溝通
the hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells , which are very densely interconnected .	海馬體是由兩片細胞組成的 , 它們彼此緊密相連 。
and scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food .	科學家開始了解空間記憶是如何運作的 , 藉由記錄老鼠在覓食或探索環境時的個別神經元所發出的聲音 。
so we're going to imagine we're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here .	想像我們紀錄單一個神經元在這隻老鼠的海馬體中
and when it fires a little spike of electricity , there's going to be a red dot and a click .	當它發出一小塊電流 , 就會有一個紅點和一個點 。
so what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment .	我們可以看到這個神經元知道當老鼠進入某一特定的環境時 。
and it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike .	藉由發電尖刺激大腦向大腦發送訊號
so we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal's location .	我們可以將神經元的發射速率作為動物所在位置的函數 。
and if we record from lots of different neurons , we'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment , like in this square box shown here .	如果我們紀錄很多不同的神經元當動物移動到其周圍的不同區域時 , 我們會看到不同的神經元發射出訊號 , 就像這個方形的盒子裡看到的那樣 。
so together they form a map for the rest of the brain , telling the brain continually , " where am i now within my environment ? "	所以他們一起為大腦繪製一張地圖 , 持續告訴大腦: 「 我現在在自己的環境中了哪裡 ? 」
place cells are also being recorded in humans .	位置細胞也會被記錄在人類身上 。
so epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring .	癲癇患者有時需要大腦的電訊活動 。
and some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town .	有些病患會玩一個電玩遊戲 , 在小鎮附近開車 。
and place cells in their hippocampi would fire , become active , start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town .	海馬體中的位置細胞就會活躍起來 , 每當他們開車經過某個特定的小鎮時 , 就會開始發射電脈衝 。
so how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment ?	那麼 , 位置細胞又如何知道老鼠在其環境中的哪個位置 ?
well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important .	這兩個細胞告訴我們環境的邊界是特別重要的 。
so the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat's in .	上方的這一隻 , 像是在兩面牆之間開火 , 老鼠就在那兒 。
and when you expand the box , the firing location expands .	當你把盒子放大 , 發射地點就會擴大 。
the one below likes to fire whenever there's a wall close by to the south .	下面這張圖是當南方靠近一面牆時就會發射出來 。
and if you put another wall inside the box , then the cell fires in both place wherever there's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box .	如果你在盒子中放置另一道牆 , 細胞在兩處都會被激發 , 當動物在盒子裡四處探索時 , 南方都有一面牆 。
so this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you extended buildings and so on is particularly important for the hippocampus .	所以 , 這種預測就能感測你周圍的界限和邊界方向等等 , 對海馬體是特別重要的 。
and indeed , on the inputs to the hippocampus , cells are found which project into the hippocampus , which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it's exploring around .	的確 , 由海馬體輸入的訊號 , 針對海馬體的哪些細胞 , 針對特定的界限或邊緣 , 在它四處探索時 , 會做出反應 。
so the cell on the left , you can see , it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east , whether it's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table , which the animals are running around .	你可以看到 , 左邊的細胞當動物碰到東邊的牆的時候就會被激發不管是方形盒子的邊緣還是圓形的邊緣或是圓形的邊緣也就是動物在桌子邊緣移動的邊緣
and the cell on the right there fires whenever there's a boundary to the south , whether it's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart .	右邊的細胞當碰到南方邊界或是邊緣的時候就會被激發 , 不管是桌邊的邊緣還是坡 , 或甚至是兩張桌子之間的隔閡 。
so that's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it's exploring around .	所以這是我們認為位置細胞可以決定動物所在的位置 。
we can also test where we think objects are , like this goal flag , in simple environments or indeed , where your car would be .	我們也可以測試我們認為物體的位置 , 例如在簡單的環境中 , 或是車子的位置 。
so we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember .	所以我們可以讓人們去探索一個環境 , 看看他們需要記得的位置 。
and then , if we put them back in the environment , generally they're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was .	然後 , 如果我們把它們放回環境中 , 一般來說 , 它們很擅長把標記放到他們認為旗幟或車子在哪裡 。
but on some trials , we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell .	但在一些試驗中 , 我們可以改變環境的形狀和大小 , 就像我們在位置細胞上做的一樣 。
in that case , we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment .	在這個例子中 , 我們可以看到他們認為旗幟位置的改變是如何改變環境的形狀和大小 。
and what you see , for example , if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment , and then if you ask people where it was , but you've made the environment bigger , where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out .	舉例來說 , 你所看到的旗子是在一個小正方形的環境中交叉的地方 , 如果你問人們這是在哪裡的位置 , 但是你讓環境變大了 , 他們認為旗幟的位置會跟位置細胞被激發的位置完全相同 。
it's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location , and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern .	就好像你還記得旗幟被激發的位置 , 先儲存你位置的位置細胞 , 然後你可以藉由四處走走走找到那個位置 , 這樣你就可以找到最適合你位置細胞被激發的模式 。
that guides you back to the location that you want to remember .	這會引導你回到你想要記得的地方 。
but we also know where we are through movement .	但我們也知道我們移動的方向 。
so if we take some outbound path perhaps we park and we wander off we know because our own movements , which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back .	所以 , 若我們採取一些出去路徑──也許我們停車 , 我們會知道是因為我們自己的動作 , 整合這條路的方向──大約就是要回去的方向 。
and place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell .	位置細胞也會得到這種路徑整合 , 從一種稱為網格細胞的細胞中輸入 。
now grid cells are found , again , on the inputs to the hippocampus , and they're a bit like place cells .	網格細胞也是在輸入海馬體時找到它們有點像位置細胞
but now as the rat explores around , each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid .	但當老鼠四處探索時 , 每個細胞都會發射出一系列不同的位置 , 這些位置會在整個環境中形成一個驚人的三角形網格 。
and if you record from several grid cells shown here in different colors each one has a gridlike firing pattern across the environment , and each cell's gridlike firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells .	如果你錄下數個網格細胞 , 分別用不同的顏色 , 每一塊都有一個網格狀的模式在整個環境中激發 , 而每一塊細胞的網格激發模式會稍微改變 , 移到其他細胞之間 。
so the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one .	紅色的會在這個格子上發射 , 綠色的會發射 , 藍色的在這個格子上 。
so together , it's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you'd find on a map , but using triangles .	綜合起來 , 就好像老鼠可以在其環境中建立一個虛擬的位置網路──有點像是地圖上找到的緯度和經度線條 , 只是用三角形 。
and as it moves around , the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is , so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment .	當它移動的時候 , 電訊的活動可以從這些細胞傳到下一個細胞 , 以追蹤它所在的位置 , 這樣它就可以利用它自己的動作去知道它在環境中的位置 。
do people have grid cells ?	人們有網格細胞嗎 ?
well because all of the gridlike firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry , the same orientations of grid , shown in orange here , it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between .	由於所有的網格狀細胞激發模式都有相同的對稱軸 , 在這裡橘色標出的方位 , 這表示整個網格的運作會根據位置在六個方向之間的移動而有所改變 。
so we can put people in an mri scanner and have them do a little video game like the one i showed you and look for this signal .	所以我們可以把人放進核磁共振儀儀器讓他們做一個像我剛剛展示給你們看的一個電玩遊戲並尋找這個訊號
and indeed , you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex , which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats .	確實 , 在人腦內部的輸送皮質也就是老鼠腦內的網格細胞
so back to homer .	回到荷馬 。
he's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked .	他可能正在想他的車子在哪裡在遠方和方向的位置來延伸建築物和邊界在他停車的地方
and that would be represented by the firing of boundarydetecting cells .	這將由邊界偵測細胞的激發來呈現 。
he's also remembering the path he took out of the car park , which would be represented in the firing of grid cells .	他還記得他從汽車停車場中走出的路線圖 , 圖上都是用網格細胞激發出來的 。
now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire .	這兩種細胞都可以讓位置細胞發射 。
and he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car .	他可以藉由移動找到他車子的位置 , 來找到目前位置與記憶中車子停放的位置 , 位置細胞的激發模式與他車子停放的位置 。
and that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car's actually there .	這引導他回到那個位置 , 不考慮視覺暗示他的車子是否真的在那兒 。
maybe it's been towed .	可能已經被估價了 。
but he knows where it was , so he knows to go and get it .	但他知道它在哪裡 , 所以他知道要去哪裡 。
so beyond spatial memory , if we look for this gridlike firing pattern throughout the whole brain , we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks , like remembering the last time you went to a wedding , for example .	除了空間記憶以外 , 如果我們觀察整個大腦內的網格狀激發模式 , 我們還可以在一系列的地點看到它 , 當我們在做各種自傳記憶工作時 , 例如你上次參加婚禮時 , 記得會發生什麼事 。
so it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene , at least , of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them .	所以 , 神經機制代表我們周圍的環境 , 也能產生視覺上的影像 , 這樣我們才能重新創造空間的景象 , 至少 , 當我們想要想像那些事件時 , 曾經發生在我們身上的事件 。
so if this was happening , your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint .	如果發生這種事 , 你的記憶可以藉由位置細胞互相啟動 , 通過高密度的相互連接 , 再重新啟動邊界細胞 , 創造你觀點周圍的空間結構 。
and grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space .	網格細胞可以移動這個視野穿過那個空間 。
another kind of cell , head direction cells , which i didn't mention yet , they fire like a compass according to which way you're facing .	另外一種我還沒提到的細胞頭向細胞它們就像是指南針一樣會根據面向不同方向而有不同的激發
they could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery , so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding , for example .	他們可以從中找出你想要的視覺圖像的方向來定義你的視覺影像 , 所以你可以想像當你在這場婚禮時發生了什麼事 。
so this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains .	這只是一個例子 , 一個存在於認知神經科學的新時代 , 我們開始了解到心理過程 , 像是你如何記得、想像 , 甚至是以數十億個獨立神經元為基礎的行為來思考 。
thank you very much .	謝謝大家 。
imagine a global security driven by collaboration among agencies , government , the private sector and the public . that's not just the distant hope of opensource fans , it's the vision of james stavridis , the supreme commander of nato , who shares vivid moments from recent military history to explain why security of the future should be built with bridges rather than walls .	想像一下 , 一個由機構、政府、私營部門和大眾共同推動的全球安全推動的全球安全 。 這並不只是開放式保護風扇的遙遠希望 , 它是jamesstavridis的最高指揮官 , 北大西洋公約組織的最高統治者 , 他們和距離現今的軍方歷史 , 來解釋為何未來應該要建造橋樑而非牆 。
collaboration , global issues , opensource , peace , politics , social media , violence , war	合作、全球議題、資源、和平、政治、社交媒體、暴力、戰爭 。
james stavridis: how nato's supreme commander thinks about global security	詹姆斯•斯特瓦里迪斯:北約的最高指揮官是如何看待全球安全的 。
i'm gonna talk a little bit about opensource security , because we've got to get better at security in this 21st century .	我將要談一點關於開放資源的安全性 , 因為在21世紀 , 我們必須在安全上變得更好 。
let me start by saying , let's look back to the 20th century , and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us .	首先 , 讓我們回顧一下20世紀 , 了解一下安全的風格是如何為我們而工作的 。
this is verdun , a battlefield in france just north of the nato headquarters in belgium .	這是verdun , 法國的戰場 , 就在北約在比利時總部的北方 。
at verdun , in 1916 , over a 300day period , 700 , 000 people were killed , so about 2 , 000 a day .	1916年 , 在verdun , 超過三百天 , 七十萬人被殺 , 約兩千人一天 。
if you roll it forward 20thcentury security into the second world war , you see the battle of stalingrad , 300 days , 2 million people killed .	如果你把它向前推進到第二次世界大戰 , 你會看到斯大林格戰 , 300天 , 2百萬人死亡 。
we go into the cold war , and we continue to try and build walls .	我們進入冷戰 , 繼續建造圍牆 。
we go from the trench warfare of the first world war to the maginot line of the second world war , and then we go into the cold war , the iron curtain , the berlin wall .	我們從第一次世界大戰的壕溝 , 到二次世界大戰的馬其頓防線 , 然後進入冷戰 , 鐵幕 , 柏林牆 。
my thesis for us today is , instead of building walls to create security , we need to build bridges .	我今天的主題是 , 不要建造一道牆來創造安全 , 我們要建造一座橋 。
this is a famous bridge in europe .	這是歐洲一座有名的橋 。
it's the bridge over the drina river , the subject of a novel by ivo andrić , and it talks about how , in that very troubled part of europe and the balkans , over time there's been enormous building of walls .	橋樑在drina河上 , 是由idevoandrice所創作的 , 它談到如何在歐洲和巴爾幹地區最麻煩的部分長時間一直以來都有巨大的牆壁 。
more recently , in the last decade , we begin to see these communities start , hesitatingly , to come together .	最近 , 在過去十年間 , 我們開始看到這些社區開始了 , 猶豫地聚集在一起 。
i would argue , again , opensource security is about connecting the international , the interagency , the privatepublic , and lashing it together with strategic communication , largely in social networks .	我想再次強調 , 開放式安全是把國際的 , 跨部門的 , 私人的和公共的聯繫起來 , 用策略性的溝通 , 主要是在社交網路上 。
so let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that , because our global commons is under attack in a variety of ways , and none of the sources of threat to the global commons will be solved by building walls .	讓我來談談為什麼我們需要這麼做 , 因為我們全球的公有物受到各式各樣的攻擊 , 沒有威脅到全球公有物的根源可以用建牆來解決 。
now , i'm a sailor , obviously .	顯然 , 我是水手 。
this is a ship , a liner , clipping through the indian ocean .	這是一艘船 , 排列隊 , 在印度洋上航行 。
what's wrong with this picture ?	這張照片有什麼問題嗎 ?
it's got concertina wire along the sides of it .	在它的側邊有吉祥物鋼線 。
that's to prevent pirates from attacking it .	那是用來防止海盜攻擊海盜的 。
piracy is a very active threat today around the world . this is in the indian ocean .	海盜現今在世界範圍內是一個非常活躍的威脅 。 這是在印度洋 。
piracy is also very active in the strait of malacca .	海盜也在馬拉加的源頭非常活躍 。
it's active in the gulf of guinea .	它在幾內亞灣很活躍 。
we see it in the caribbean .	我們在加勒比海看到 。
it's a $10billionayear discontinuity in the global transport system .	這是全球交通運輸系統價值10億美元的不連續性 。
last year , at this time , there were 20 vessels , 500 mariners held hostage .	去年 , 當時有20艘船 , 500名船員被綁架 。
this is an attack on the global commons .	這是對全球公有物的攻擊 。
we need to think about how to address it .	我們需要思考如何解決它 。
let's shift to a different kind of sea , the cyber sea .	讓我們轉換到另一種海洋 , 網路的海洋 。
here are photographs of two young men .	這是兩個年輕人的照片 。
at the moment , they're incarcerated .	此刻 , 他們被監禁了 。
they conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars .	他們做了一個信用卡詐騙案 , 淨利超過一百億美金 。
this is part of cybercrime which is a $2trillionayear discontinuity in the global economy .	這是網路犯罪的一部分 , 是全球經濟2兆美元的不連續性 。
two trillion a year .	每年有兩兆 。
that's just under the gdp of great britain .	這只是英國的國民生產毛額而已 。
so this cyber sea , which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness , is very much under threat as well .	這片網路世界 , 我們知道這片網路開放是最基本的 , 在威脅之下也非常重要 。
another thing i worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking , by the movement of narcotics , opium , here coming out of afghanistan through europe over to the united states .	我在全球公有物中擔憂的另一件事就是人口販賣所造成的威脅 , 如麻醉劑 , 鴉片 , 從阿富汗穿過歐洲到美國的流動所造成的威脅 。
we worry about cocaine coming from the andean ridge north .	我們擔心從andeanridge北部來的可卡因 。
we worry about the movement of illegal weapons and trafficking . above all , perhaps , we worry about human trafficking , and the awful cost of it .	我們擔心非法武器的運輸 。 最重要的是 , 我們擔心人口販運 , 以及它的成本 。
trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons .	大部分人口販賣活動在海洋上 , 但在全球的其他公有物上 。
this is a photograph , and i wish i could tell you that this is a very hightech piece of us navy gear that we're using to stop the trafficking .	這是一張照片 , 我希望我能告訴你這是一個非常高科技的美國海軍裝備 , 用來阻止人口販賣 。
the bad news is , this is a semisubmersible run by drug cartels .	壞消息是 , 這是販毒集團的半潛水服 。
it was built in the jungles of south america .	它是在南美叢林中建造的 。
we caught it with that lowtech raft — — and it was carrying six tons of cocaine .	我們用低科技的木筏逮捕了它 , 它帶著六噸的可卡因 。
crew of four . sophisticated communications sweep .	四個船員 。 精密的通訊掃描 。
this kind of trafficking , in narcotics , in humans , in weapons , god forbid , in weapons of mass destruction , is part of the threat to the global commons .	這種運送麻醉劑 , 人、武器、大規模殺傷性武器 , 這種運輸是對全球公有物威脅的一部分 。
and let's pull it together in afghanistan today .	讓我們一起來談今天在阿富汗 。
this is a field of poppies in afghanistan .	這是阿富汗的一塊平頂山
eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppy , opium and heroin , comes out of afghanistan .	世界上百分之八十到九十的小狗 , 鴉片和海洛因來自阿富汗 。
we also see there , of course , terrorism .	當然 , 我們也看到了恐怖主義 。
this is where al qaeda is staged from .	這就是基地組織建立的地方 。
we also see a very strong insurgency embedded there .	我們也看到一個非常強烈的暴動藏在其中 。
so this terrorism concern is also part of the global commons , and what we must address .	所以這種恐怖主義的擔憂也是全球公有物的一部分 , 也是我們必須處理的 。
so here we are , 21st century .	所以 , 在21世紀 ,
we know our 20thcentury tools are not going to work .	我們知道我們20世紀的工具行不通 。
what should we do ?	我們該怎麼做 ?
i would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我認為我們不會僅僅依靠槍支來遞送安全 。
we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我們不能僅僅依靠槍支 。
we will need the application of military force .	我們需要軍事力量的應用 。
when we do it , we must do it well , and competently .	當我們這樣做時 , 我們必須要把事情做好 , 且要有競爭力 。
but my thesis is , opensource security is about international , interagency , privatepublic connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the internet .	但我的論點是 , 開放式安全是關於國際的 , 跨部門的 , 私人和公共的聯繫 , 由互聯網的策略性溝通而引導 。
let me give you a couple of examples of how this works in a positive way .	讓我舉幾個例子 , 說明它如何以正面的方式運作 。
this is afghanistan . these are afghan soldiers .	這是阿富汗 。 這些是阿富汗的士兵 。
they are all holding books .	他們都拿著書 。
you should say , " that's odd . i thought i read that this demographic , young men and women in their 20s and 30s , is largely illiterate in afghanistan . "	你應該說: 「 這很奇怪 , 我想我曾讀到過這個人口統計數字在二十多歲和三十多歲的年輕人在阿富汗大多是文盲 。 」
you would be correct .	你可能會是對的 。
eightyfive percent cannot read when they enter the security forces of afghanistan .	當他們進入阿富汗安全部隊時 , 85%是看不懂的 。
why ? because the taliban withheld education during the period of time in which these men and women would have learned to read .	為什麼 ? 因為 , 在這些男人和女人學會閱讀的時代 , 塔利班的沉重教育 。
so the question is , so , why are they all standing there holding books ?	問題是 , 為什麼他們站在那裡拿著書 ?
the answer is , we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by nato in partnership with private sector entities , in partnership with development agencies .	答案是 , 我們在教導他們閱讀 , 通過北約組織的課程 , 通過私人機構的合作 , 通過與發展機構的合作 。
we've taught well over 200 , 000 afghan security forces to read and write at a basic level .	我們已經教了超過20萬的阿富汗安全部隊 , 基本上就是要讀和寫 。
when you can read and write in afghanistan , you will typically put a pen in your pocket .	當你能在阿富汗讀和寫的時候 , 通常你可以把筆放在口袋裡 。
at the ceremonies , when these young men and women graduate , they take that pen with great pride , and put it in their pocket .	在畢業典禮上 , 當這些年輕男女畢業時 , 他們很驕傲地拿起筆 , 放在他們的口袋裡 。
this is bringing together international — there are 50 nations involved in this mission — interagency — these development agencies — and privatepublic , to take on this kind of security .	全球有50個國家參與這項任務 。 這些開發機構私人和公共的開發機構 , 來對付這種安全 。
now , we are also teaching them combat skills , of course , but i would argue , opensource security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect .	我們現在當然也教他們打仗技能 , 但我認為 , 開放式安全意味著用創造更持久的安全方法聯繫在一起 。
this is a us navy warship .	這是美國海軍戰艦 。
it's called the comfort .	叫做舒適感 。
there's a sister ship called the mercy .	有一艘姐妹船叫做mercy 。
they are hospital ships .	他們是醫院的船 。
this one , the comfort , operates throughout the caribbean and the coast of south america conducting patient treatments .	安慰號在加勒比海和南美洲的海岸進行病人的治療 。
on a typical cruise , they'll do 400 , 000 patient treatments .	在一般的巡迴演出中 , 他們會進行四十萬個治療 。
it is crewed not strictly by military but by a combination of humanitarian organizations: operation hope , project smile .	船員不是嚴格地執政 , 而是結合人道主義組織:營運希望、微笑 。
other organizations send volunteers .	其他組織送來志工 。
interagency physicians come out .	內部的醫生出來了 。
they're all part of this .	這些都是其中的一部分 。
to give you one example of the impact this can have , this little boy , eight years old , walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the comfort .	舉個例子來說 , 這個小男孩 , 八歲 , 跟他媽媽走了兩天來到安慰號上的眼科診所 。
when he was fitted , over his extremely myopic eyes , he suddenly looked up and said , " mama , veo el mundo . "	在他裝好時 , 透過他的極端視野 , 他突然抬頭說: 「 媽媽 , veoelmundo 。 」
" mom , i see the world . "	「 媽媽 , 我看到世界了 。 」
multiply this by 400 , 000 patient treatments , this privatepublic collaboration with security forces , and you begin to see the power of creating security in a very different way .	把這個乘以四十萬名病人治療 , 這個私人和安全部隊的合作 , 你就會開始看到用非常不同的方式創造安全的力量 。
here you see baseball players .	這裡你可以看到棒球選手 。
can you pick out the two us army soldiers in this photograph ?	你可以在這張照片中挑出兩名美國陸軍士兵嗎 ?
they are the two young men on either side of these young boys . this is part of a series of baseball clinics , where we have explored collaboration between major league baseball , the department of state , who sets up the diplomatic piece of this , military baseball players , who are real soldiers with real skills but participate in this mission , and they put on clinics throughout latin america and the caribbean , in honduras , in nicaragua , in all of the central american and caribbean nations where baseball is so popular , and it creates security .	他們可能是這兩位年輕男子這可是棒球診所的一部分我們曾研究過大聯盟棒球聯賽、國務院這些人為外交官像是軍事棒球選手他們是真正的軍事棒球員但他們參與了這項任務他們到了拉丁美洲和加勒比地區 , 開到了霍勒斯 , 開到了美國和加勒比地區
it shows role models to young men and women about fitness and about life that i would argue help create security for us .	它向年輕人展示了關於健身和生活的榜樣 , 也是我認為幫助為我們創造安全 。
another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief .	這種合作的另一面是災難救援 。
this is a us air force helicopter participating after the tsunami in 2004 which killed 250 , 000 people .	這是美國空軍的直升機 , 在2004年在海嘯之後 , 造成25萬人死亡 。
in each of these major disasters — the tsunami in 2004 , 250 , 000 dead , the kashmiri earthquake in pakistan , 2005 , 85 , 000 dead , the haitian earthquake , about 300 , 000 dead , more recently the awful earthquaketsunami combination which struck japan and its nuclear industry — in all of these instances , we see partnerships between international actors , interagency , privatepublic working with security forces to respond to this kind of natural disaster .	在這些重大災難中2004年海嘯 , 250000死 , 2005年巴基斯坦的kashmiri地震 , 85000死 , 海地地地震 , 30萬人 , 更近期發生在日本發生的地震災難 , 以及其核工業--所有這些例子中 , 我們看到了國際間 , 跨部門的合作 , 和公私間的合作 , 與自然災害合作 。
so these are examples of this idea of opensource security .	這些是關於 「 開放式安全 」 的例子 。
we tie it together , increasingly , by doing things like this .	我們透過這樣的方式將它連結在一起 。
now , you're looking at this thinking , " ah , admiral , these must be sea lanes of communication , or these might be fiber optic cables . "	現在 , 你看著這個想法: 「 啊 , 米德 , 這些一定是通信的海道 , 或者這些可能是光纖電纜 。 」
no . this is a graphic of the world according to twitter .	不 , 這是twitter的圖表
purple are tweets . green are geolocation .	紫色是推特訊息 。 綠色是地點分配 。
white is the synthesis .	白色是合成 。
it's a perfect evocation of that great population survey , the six largest nations in the world in descending order: china , india , facebook , the united states , twitter and indonesia .	這很能喚起全世界六大人口調查 , 依次是中國、印度、臉書、美國、推特 , 和印尼 。
why do we want to get in these nets ?	為什麼我們要進到這些蚊帳呢 ?
why do we want to be involved ?	為什麼我們想要參與其中 ?
we talked earlier about the arab spring , and the power of all this .	我們之前談到阿拉伯之春 , 以及它的力量 。
i'll give you another example , and it's how you move this message .	我再舉一個例子 , 就是你如何傳遞訊息 。
i gave a talk like this in london a while back about this point . i said , as i say to all of you , i'm on facebook . friend me .	我在倫敦發表過這樣的演說 , 我對你們說 , 我在facebook上 , 朋友我 。
got a little laugh from the audience .	聽眾有點笑 。
there was an article which was run by ap , on the wire .	有一篇文章 , 文章是ap在電線上運行 。
got picked up in two places in the world: finland and indonesia .	世界上有兩個地方 , 芬蘭和印尼 。
the headline was: nato admiral needs friends .	標題是:北大西洋公約需要好友 。
and the story was a catalyst , and the next morning i had hundreds of facebook friend requests from indonesians and finns , mostly saying , " admiral , we heard you need a friend , and oh , by the way , what is nato ? "	這個故事是催化劑 , 第二天早上我有上百個facebook好友請求 , 來自印尼和芬蘭 , 大部分都會說: 「 阿德 , 我們聽說你需要一個朋友 , 喔 , 北約是什麼 ? 」
yeah , we laugh , but this is how we move the message , and moving that message is how we connect international , interagency , privatepublic , and these social nets to help create security .	是的 , 我們會笑 , 但這是我們如何移動這個訊息 , 移動那個訊息就是我們如何連結國際 , 跨部門 , 私人 , 和這些社交網來協助創造安全 。
now , let me hit a somber note .	現在 , 讓我說個嚴肅的話 。
this is a photograph of a brave british soldier .	這是一位勇敢的英國士兵的照片 。
he's in the scots guards .	他在蘇格蘭衛隊 。
he's standing the watch in helmand , in southern afghanistan .	他正站在helmand , 在阿富汗南部 。
i put him here to remind us , i would not want anyone to leave the room thinking that we do not need capable , competent militaries who can create real military effect .	我讓他來提醒我們 , 我不希望任何人離開這個房間 , 認為我們不需要有能力、有能力的軍事人員 , 能創造出真正的軍事效應 。
that is the core of who we are and what we do , and we do it to protect freedom , freedom of speech , all the things we treasure in our societies .	那是我們是誰的核心 , 我們的工作 , 我們做這件事來保護言論自由 , 言論自由 , 所有我們在社會中珍視的東西 。
but , you know , life is not an onandoff switch .	但你知道 , 人生並不是個開端 。
you don't have to have a military that is either in hard combat or is in the barracks .	你不需要軍隊在戰鬥中 , 或在軍事中 。
i would argue life is a rheostat .	我會主張生命是rheostat 。
you have to dial it in , and as i think about how we create security in this 21st century , there will be times when we will apply hard power in true war and crisis , but there will be many instances , as we've talked about today , where our militaries can be part of creating 21stcentury security , international , interagency , privatepublic , connected with competent communication .	你必須調整 , 並且我認為我們該如何在21世紀建立安全 , 有時候我們會在真正的戰爭和危機中運用硬實的力量 , 但將會有很多時候 , 就像我們今天談到的 , 我們的軍隊可以使21世紀安全 , 國際 , 跨部門 , 公私部門 , 與溝通建立良好關係 。
i would close by saying that we heard earlier today about wikipedia . i use wikipedia all the time to look up facts , and as all of you appreciate , wikipedia is not created by 12 brilliant people locked in a room writing articles .	最後我想說今天早些時候聽到的關於維基百科的消息 。 我時常用維基百科查一些事實 , 你們都知道 , 維基百科不是靠12位聰明的人把文章鎖在房間裡寫 。
wikipedia , every day , is tens of thousands of people inputting information , and every day millions of people withdrawing that information .	維基百科是每天數萬人投入的資訊 , 數百萬人的提取信息 。
it's a perfect image for the fundamental point that no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	這完美的形象就是沒有一個人能這麼聰明 , 能讓我們一起思考 。
no one person , no one alliance , no one nation , no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	沒有一個人 , 沒有一個聯盟 , 沒有一個國家 , 沒有一個我們一起想的那麼聰明 。
the vision statement of wikipedia is very simple: a world in which every human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge .	維基百科的宣言很簡單:一個所有人類都可以自由共享所有知識的世界 。
my thesis for you is that by combining international , interagency , privatepublic , strategic communication , together , in this 21st century , we can create the sum of all security .	我的論點是 , 通過結合國際 , 跨部門 , 私人 , 戰略溝通 , 在21世紀 , 我們能創造出所有安全的總和 。
thank you very much . thank you . thank you .	非常謝謝 。 謝謝 。
