BLEU = 21.30 58.5/30.1/17.6/10.7 (BP = 0.886 ratio = 0.892 hyp_len = 70647 ref_len = 79172)
當你說她是個程式設計師的時候 , 她的確是不過真正的重要是說出了未來會為變成什麼樣這比作為第一個程式設計師要有價值多了	when you say she's a programmer , she's really , really important to say what the future is going to be , which is more valuable than being the first programmer .
現在 , 一百多年後 , 有個人出現了艾蘭圖林 。 在1936年 , 他重新發明了電腦	now , more than a hundred years later , an islan turing came out , and in 1936 , he reinvented the computer .
當然 , 巴貝奇的機器是純機械的	of course , babbage's machine was mechanical .
圖林的機器是純理論的	turing's machine is pure theory .
這些人都是從數學角度的觀點來考慮的不過圖林告訴我們一些很重要的事情	these are people from a mathematical perspective , but graphics tells us something very important .
他在計算機科學奠定了數學的基礎他說 " 你怎麼製造電腦並不重要. "	he laid the foundation of mathematics in computer science , and he said , " it doesn't matter how you make a computer . "
就像是機械電腦 , 像巴貝奇那種 , 或者電子的 , 跟今天一樣的 , 也不重要再抑或將來是細胞構成的 , 或者又是機械的 , 一旦我們進入奈米技術	it's like mechanical computers , like babbage , or electronics , like we are today , that don't matter anymore , or in the future , cellular composition , or mechanically , once we get into nanotechnology .
我們可以回到巴貝奇的機器 , 使它變得很小 。 所有這些東西都是計算機	we can go back to babbage's machine and make it very small . all these things are calculators .
在這之中有一個計算的本質	there's an essence of computation .
這叫做邱奇-圖靈論題	this is called churchituring .
所以突然之間 , 你知道了其中的聯絡巴貝奇當年造的那東西確實是臺電腦	so all of a sudden , you know , babbage's contact .
實際上 , 它可以做任何我們現在用電腦能做的事情 , 只不過極其的慢而已.	in fact , it can do anything we can do now with computers , just extremely slowly .
你要是想知道多慢的話 , 它有1k的記憶體	if you want to know how slow it is , it has 1k of memory .
它使用打孔卡片作為輸入比第一個zx81要慢1萬倍	it uses punch cards as a 10 , 000fold slower than the first zx81 .
不過呢 , 它的確有個ram組	but it does have a ram set .
你可以擴大它的容量	you can expand it .
嗯 , 那麼這個東西給我們今天帶來什麼呢 ?	well , what does this thing bring to us ?
我們有計劃	we have a plan .
在斯文頓的科學博物館檔案中有成百個計劃和上千頁巴貝奇寫的關於這個分析引擎的筆記	in the museum of science in scenton , there are hundreds of plans and thousands of pages written about this analytical engine .
其中一個我們把它叫 " 計劃28 " 這還是個我與多倫斯韋德建立的一個慈善機構的名字 , 他是科學博物館計算專案的管理人 , 並且是他將起草了建造差分機的計劃我們的計劃就是把它造出來	one of them we call it " project 28 , " which is still the name of a charity i built with toron museum museum computing , and it's the manager of the science museum calculator , and it's the plan that he took on the grass and created the distribution .
在這裡南肯辛頓 , 我們還會造分析引擎	in this case , south kensington , we also build analytical engines .
這個工程有很多部分	there's lots of parts of the project .
一部分就是掃描巴貝奇的檔案	and part of that is babbage's file .
這個已經做完了.第二個是現在學習所有這些計劃去決定應該建造什麼	it's done . the second is now learning all of these projects to decide what to build .
第三部分是那個機器的一個電腦模擬系統最後一部就是在科學博物館真正把機器造出來	the third part is a computer simulation system in that machine , and the last part is really building machines at the science museum .
當它造出來的時候 , 你就會真正理解電腦是怎麼工作的因為與其有一個極小的晶片在你面前你可以看看這個巨大的東西然後說 ; " 噢 , 我看到記憶體在工作 , cpu在工作我還能聽見它在工作.我說不定還聞到了. "	when it's built , you really understand how a computer works , because instead of having a tiny chip in front of you , you can look at this enormous thing and say , " oh , i see the memory work , the cpu is at work , and i can hear it at work . i don't smell it . "
在這之間呢我們會做一個模擬	in between , we're going to do a simulation .
巴貝奇寫到一旦分析引擎存在後它一定會對於未來的科學有所指導作用	babbage wrote that once the analytical engine exists , it will definitely guide the future of science .
當然 , 他從未成功造出來 , 因為他總是在他新計劃上浪費時間 , 不過當真有東西建造出來的時候 , 在20世紀40年代 , 所有事情都被改變了	of course , he never made it , because he was was wasting time on his new project , but when something was built , everything was changed in the 1940s .
現在 , 我會給你看下它大概會長成什麼樣子一個影片來展示cpu的一部分是怎麼工作的	now , i'm going to show you what it might look like in a video to show you part of the cpu .
這是三組齒輪它準備做加法.這是加法的工作原理這樣你可以想象到這個巨大的機器	this is three sets of cogs , and it's about additional work , so you can imagine this giant machine .
給我五年時間	give me five years .
在2030之前 , 我們就會有了	by 2030 , we'll have it .
非常感謝.	thank you very much .
在這個配合大量圖片的演講中 , 揚恩亞瑟伯特蘭yannarthus-bertrand向我們展示了他最近關於人類和我們地球的3個主要專案--一個是他一系列驚人的航拍的照片 " 鳥瞰地球 " ; 第二個是在他的網頁中 , 他記錄下了 " 60億人的聲音 " 這個專案的成果 , 這個專案是為了拍攝各種人對一系列有關生命的問題的不同回答 ; 第三個則是他不久即要發行的電影《家園》 , 這個觸目驚心的電影是關於人類對環境的影響 。	in this lecture with massive amounts of images , yarn arthur yann thus bertrand showed us the three primary project he recently showed us about mankind and our planet the " bird'seye view " in his web page , where he recorded the consequences of " 60 billion people " for a project that was relevant to a whole range of questions about life ; and he answered a whole series of questions that were not very long ago about the human environment .
art , climatechange , environment , film , future , humanity , media , photography	so , you know , the change , the tablet , the tilt , the mass , the photography , the thography .
揚恩亞瑟伯特蘭yannarthus-bertrand:不堪重負的地球	arthur lanyann thus bertrand: the earth is irrelevant .
由於我是坐飛機到此的 , 我已對地球造成甚巨的影響 。	and because i'm on an airplane here , i've had a huge impact on the earth .
我已在空氣中排放了九噸二氧化碳 。 這與兩隻大象相當 。	i've already emitted nine tons of carbon dioxide in the air , which is the elephant .
我來這裡是為了談論生態 。 但我的二氧化碳排放量已與法國人一年所排放的二氧化碳量相等 。	i'm here to talk about ecosystems , but my carbon dioxide emissions are equal to the amount of carbon dioxide emitted by france in a year .
我該怎麼做呢 ?	what do i do ?
當我回到家時 , 我要自殺嗎 ?	when i came home , would i kill myself ?
我所要做的是另一種抵消二氧化碳的方式 , 我每次都這樣做的 。	what i have to do is a different way to remove carbon dioxide , which i do every single time .
事實上我的工作是展示人類對地球的影響 。	in fact , my job is to show human impact on this planet .
我要展示去年我拍攝到的一些照片 。	i'm going to show you a couple of pictures that i took last year .
艾伯塔省的油砂 , 是對環境造成極大汙染 。	the oil sands in alberta were extremely polluting the environment .
我們知道這問題 , 但我們卻視而不見 。	we know this , but we don't see it .
在艾伯塔省人們 , 七小時一輪替 , 一天工作24小時來提取儘可能多的石油 。	at alberta province , seven hours round , 24 hours a day to extract as much oil as possible .
我們都知道石油會走向衰竭 。	we all know that oil is going to fail .
油砂不是一個長遠的解決辦法 。	oil sands is not a longterm solution .
但是我們每年的石油使用量卻比年開採量還要多三倍 。	but we use three times more oil per year than we do every year .
但是 , 我們卻聽而不聞 。	but we don't hear it .
新喀里多尼亞的珊瑚礁群 。	coral reefs in new caledonia .
因為全球變暖 , 珊瑚礁群將有可能於2050年前就被滅絕了 。	because of global warming , coral reefs are going to be extinct by 2050 .
我們知道珊瑚對溫度非常敏感 , 它們對海洋的多樣性也起至關重要的作用 。	we know that corals are very sensitive to temperature , and they have a very important role to the diversity of the ocean .
北極 。 我於去年夏天拍攝了這幅圖片 。	north pole . i took this picture last summer .
假若是在15年前 , 我根本無法拍攝到這種圖片 。	if it were 15 years ago , i wouldn't have been able to photograph it .
現在這兒開闢了一條大西洋和太平洋的新航道 。	now , there's a new lane in the atlantic and the pacific .
自從1960年起 , 北極的冰層厚度已減少逾百分之40 。	since 1960 , the thick thickness of the arctic has decreased by over 40 percent .
這是乞力馬扎羅山的新裝 , 它的雪頂已消失不見 。	this is a new installation in mount khan mazarro , and its snow is gone .
它已失去其百分之八十的積雪 。	it's lost 80 percent of its snow .
據科學家說 , 於未來100年內 , 所有高山的積雪都會消失殆盡 。	scientists say that in the next 100 years , all the mountains will disappear .
冰川對地球上的生命來說也很重要 。	glaciers are also important for life on this planet .
正如阿爾•戈爾所說 , 全球有20億人的生活用水是依靠喜馬拉雅山系的冰川 。	as al gore said , there are two billion people who live on water around the world , depending on the glacier in the himalayas .
再說到漁夫 。	and then the fishermen .
五分之一的人類是依靠捕魚而生活 。	one fifth of humans depend on fishing .
今天 , 現在百分之七十的魚群是被過度捕撈 。	today , 70 percent of the fish population is overfished .
根據聯合國糧食及農業組織 , 如果我們不改變我們的捕魚作業 , 於2050年 , 海上的主要資源將會消失 。	according to the united nations food and agricultural organization , if we don't change our fishing assignment , in 2050 , the mainstream resources will disappear .
我們還是對此視而不見聽而不聞 。	we don't recognize it .
這是幅美麗的圖片是攝於非洲 。	this is a beautiful image taken in africa .
世界上每六個人裡就有一個人沒有足夠的食物 。	one in six people in the world don't have enough food .
那麼就已有10億人沒有足夠的食物 。	so a billion people don't have enough food .
在非洲 , 玉米是許多地方的主要食品之一 。	in africa , corn is one of the primary foods in many places .
在美國百分之九十的種植玉米都是用來餵養動物或者是製作生物油 。	in the united states , 90 percent of corn is used to feed animals or to make biofuels .
在婆羅洲棕櫚樹種植園 ,	palm tree plantation in borneo .
每一年 , 都會減少五萬平方英里的森林面積 。	every year , we reduce the forest area of 50 , 000 square miles .
達爾富爾的難民營 。	the refugee camp in darfur .
今天 , 於世界上共有2000萬難民 。	today , there are 20 million refugees in the world .
根據聯合國 , 在2050年 , 我們將會有2億5千萬難民 。	according to the u . n . , in 2050 , we will have 250 million refugees .
我總是在街頭展示我的照片 。	i always show my pictures on the street .
我們已經在100個城市裡舉辦圖片展覽 。	we've had image exhibitions in 100 cities .
但是如何才能更好理解無聲的人類世界 ?	but how better to understand the silent world of the human world ?
風景照片是遠遠不夠的 。	landscape photos are not enough .
很明顯我要去做另一個專案 。	it was clear that i was going to do another project .
我發起了一個專案 , 命名它為 " 60億人的聲音 " 的計劃 。	i launched a project called it the sound of six billion people .
我派送六個攝影師到世界各地去問同樣的問題 , 是關於生命的重要問題 。	i sent six photographers around the world to ask the same question about life's important questions .
我們已經完成了5000次訪談 。	we've done 5 , 000 interviews .
我在這裡向你們展示一下成果 。	i'm showing you the results .
第一個男人:在我生命中發生的最美好的事情是什麼 ?	first man: what's the most beautiful thing that's happened in my life ?
那是當我父親告訴我: " 過來 , 我把這個女孩給你做你的新娘 。 "	that's when my father told me , " come , i'm giving you this girl your bride . "
第一個女人:愛 ? 愛是我所能擁有的最美好的事物 。	woman: love ? love is the best thing i can have .
第二個男人:羅密歐與朱麗葉 , sassiandpanno , 多迪和戴安娜王妃 , heerandranjha , 這就是愛情 !	second man: romeo and juliet , sassian dunno , dodi and diana , heer and ranjha , this is love !
第二個女人:你問了我一個棘手的問題 。	woman 2: you asked me a tough question .
第四個男人:因為我完成了我所想要做的事情 , 所以我覺得我生活得很幸福 。	man fourth man: because i had done what i wanted to do , i felt like i was happy in my life .
第五個男人:我首先想到的是...	man five: the first thing i thought was . . .
第五個男人:...從我的孩童起 , 第五個男人:我們一起騎腳踏車 , 是多麼快樂啊 。	man five: . . . from my childhood , the fifth man: how happy we were riding a bicycle together .
第七個男人:我們發明了故事 , 我們可以飛往世界各地遊玩 , 但我們還可以待在我們的閣樓裡想象 。	seventh man: we invented stories that we could fly around the world and play , but we could still imagine in our attic .
第八個男人:今天我開懷一笑 。	eighth man: i'm smiling today .
第九個男人:你要曉得 , 家庭...真糟糕 。	man nineth man: you know , family is terrible .
第十個男人:在生活中 , 你的生命是唯一的 。	10th man: your life is unique in life .
第十一個男人:我是誰 ? 這是頭等重要的問題 ?	11th man: who am i ? is that the first big question ?
第十二個男人:如果我可以回到伊拉克 , 我想對那裡的人民說 , 我得跪下來 , 親吻他們的腳來請求寬恕 。	12th man: if i could go back to iraq , i would like to say to the people there , i had to get down on my knees and kiss their legs for forgiveness .
就如同當我要奪走一個伊拉克女人的孩子時 , 她要親吻我的腳一樣 。	just like when i took away an iraqi woman , she kissed my feet .
我被他們的力量所感動 , 從而使我感到謙卑 。	i was moved by their strength and humbled by them .
我永遠都覺得有必要向伊拉克作出賠償 。	i always felt the need to compensate for iraq .
第二個女人:爸爸、媽媽 , 我長大了 。	second woman: dad , mom , i grew up .
你們不用擔心我 。 爸爸也不用再來<unk>區打工了 。	you don't have to worry about me either .
我的家...怎麼說呢 ?	my home . . . what ?
不瞞大家說 , 我的家很貧窮 , 來到深圳這裡 , 我只是想展現自己 。 讓自己贏得更多的利潤 , 讓父母去嘗試到很富裕的感覺吧 。	and i'm just trying to show myself that my family is poor , and i just want to show myself here in shenzhen , and i'm winning more profits for my parents to try something wealthy .
不想讓他們嚐到永遠在一種很貧窮生活下度過 。	don't want them to taste forever living in a poor life .
如果哪一天我真的很發達 , 很成功 , 我第一要感謝的就是我的父母 。 我要對他們說:	if one day i was really motivated , and i was successful , the first thing i wanted to thank was my parents .
謝謝你們栽培了我 , 才會讓我有今天 。 謝謝 。 "	thank you for cultivating me so i'm here today . thank you . "
第十三個男人:我已在輪椅中度過七年的時光 , 但這並有阻礙到我享受多姿多彩的生活 。	13th man: i've spent seven years in a wheelchair , but it doesn't stop me from enjoying a lot of colorful lives .
許多人說我不可以衝浪 。 而我則去航遊世界 , 以前進行潛水運動 。	a lot of people say i can't surf , and i go sailing the world , and i used to have a dive .
我證明我能 。	i proved i could .
我認為這一切都緊密聯絡著大自然 , 聯絡著生命的活力 。 因為在地球上我們都有著某種方式的缺陷 。 精神上的 , 心智上的或者身體上的 。	i think all of this is connected to nature , to contact the dynamics of life , because we all have flaws on this planet mentally or mentally or physically .
我只是身體上有小缺陷而已 。	i'm just a little physical flaw .
第十四個男人:比方說 , 你我都彼此喜歡 。	14th man: like , you and i like each other .
不管你從哪裡來 。	it doesn't matter where you came from .
你不認識我 , 我不認識你 。	you don't know me , i don't know you .
我們都彼此坦誠相對 。	we're all honest with each other .
如果我的確喜歡你 。 我會給你一頭牛和許多其他東西 , 我們就成為朋友 。	if i do like you , i'll give you a cow and a lot of other things , and we'll become friends .
我們就如同自己人一樣彼此對待 。	we treat each other like we are .
伯特蘭:你還可以登入這個網站 。 來回答這些問題 。	yab: you can log into the website . answer these questions .
現在我來談談我的電影 。	now i'm going to talk about my movie .
在過去三年 , 我拍攝了一部有關地球的電影 。	in the last three years , i've made a movie about the earth .
它的名字為 " 家園 " 。 " 家 " 。	it's called homeland . home .
它是一部關於地球變化的電影 。	it's a movie about earth change .
它也是一部精彩的關於生命征程的故事 。	it's also a fantastic story about life expedition .
我很自豪向你們來展示這預告片 。	i'm proud to show you this television .
影片:地球已有45億年曆史了 。	video: the earth is 4 . 5 billion years old .
這些植物都已有幾百萬年的歷史 。	these plants have been around for millions of years .
然而我們人類能直立步行的歷史則僅有20萬年 。	and yet , our species has only 200 , 000 years to walk upright .
我們已經成功地適應下來 , 並已經征服了整個地球 。	we've successfully adapted and conquered the entire planet .
世世代代 , 我們養育我們的孩子 , 卻不像在我們身邊賴以生活的數百萬其它物種那樣 。	generations , we raise our children , not like millions of other species around us .
過去30年裡 , 我有幸從高空仔細觀察地球和它的居住者們 。	for the last 30 years , i've had the good fortune to observe the earth and its residents from the high sky .
我們的生活依賴於我們地球的福祉 。	our lives depend on our wellbeing on our planet .
我們依靠水、森林、沙漠、海洋、	we depend on water , forests , deserts , oceans .
漁業、種植業、農業 , 這些都是世界上最初的人類活動 。	fisheries , growing , agriculture , these are the first human activities in the world .
地球把我們緊密聯絡在一起 , 它並沒有造成我們之間的分離 。	the earth contacts us closely together , and it doesn't cause us separation .
我們大家都分享著地球饋贈的禮物 。 同樣希望超越自身 , 變得更好 。	we all share the gift of earth , and we all hope to go beyond ourselves , be better .
然而 , 我們開始壘高牆垣 , 讓我們彼此分開 。	however , we started to build walls that separate us from each other .
今天 , 我們最大的戰鬥是為了保護我們地球的天然產品 。	today , our biggest fight is to protect our planet's natural products .
在不到50年裡 , 相比整個人類歷史 , 我們人類已經更徹底地改變了地球改變了我們的家園 。	in less than 50 years , we humans have radically altered the earth and changed our homes .
世界上一半的森林已經消失 。	half of the world's forests are gone .
水資源所剩不多 。	there's not much water left .
集約農業使土壤貧瘠 。	concentration of agriculture makes soil barren .
我們現有的能源是不可持續利用的 。	our current energy is unsustainable .
氣候正在發生變化 。	climate is changing .
我們正在危害我們自己 。	we are threatening ourselves .
我們只是想改善我們的生活 。	we just want to improve our lives .
但是 , 貧富差距在日益加劇 。	but wealth gaps are increasingly enhanced .
我們還沒有認識到 , 地球的承受能力已無法包容我們的迅速發展 。	we haven't realized that the earth's suffering ability to suffer is unable to hold our growth rapidly .
我們知道有可行的解決方案 。	we know there are solutions that work .
為了更好的未來 , 我們每個人都有能力來改變這惡化趨勢 。	for the better future , each of us has the ability to change this deterioration trend .
因此 , 我們還等什麼呢 ?	so what else do we wait for ?
伯特蘭:呂克貝松是這電影的製片人 。	bert: lyk besson is a filmmaker in this movie .
這部電影和一般的電影不一樣 。	it's not a regular movie .
這部影片將免費發行 。	this video is going to be distributed for free .
它沒有版權 。	it doesn't have copyright .
在6月5日 , 環境日那一天 , 每個人都可以在網際網路上下載這電影 。	on june 5th , the environment day , everybody could download the movie on the internet .
在6月5日電視和電影院的分銷商們都被許可免費發行這部電影 。	on june 5th and the movie distributors were released for free to distribute this film .
這部電影是沒有任何商業行為 。	there's no commercial behavior in this movie .
當然 , 也提供給學校、城市、非政府組織和你 。	and of course , it also provides schools , cities , ngos and you .
我們必須相信我們所知道的這一切 。	we have to believe what we know .
讓我告訴你 ,	let me tell you .
此時悲觀太不可取了 , 這的確是太遲了 。	it was too pessimistic at this point , and it was too late .
但我們可以馬上行動從而來為解決地球現有的問題貢獻出一份力 。	but we can do something immediately to contribute to solving the existing problems on our planet .
最後 , 我想歡迎4700個新出生的嬰兒 , 他們就在我開始這演講期間誕生 。	and finally , i'd like to welcome 4 , 700 newborn babies , who were born right here at the beginning of this talk .
謝謝你們 。 我愛你們 。	thank you . i love you .
著名的雜技演員raspyni兄弟將展示他們神奇的平衡感 , 靈活性 , 協調性和願意犧牲.現在 , 你就站著不動...	the famous juggler raspyni brothers will show their magical balance , flexibility , coordination and willingness to sacrifice .
collaboration , entertainment , humor , physics	collaboration , humor , physics .
raspyni兄弟的雜技和妙語	raspyni brothers' juggles and wonders .
danholzman:請把豆袋椅扔過來.我們開始吧.	ldnholzman: please throw the bean seat . here we go .
barryfriedman:現在這裡有許多高科技的椅子.當它到達頂峰時 , 我想 , 這些都很符合人類工程學 , 舒適度 , 外觀設計 , 彎曲性的的設計	barry friedman: there's a lot of hightech chairs right now , and when it reached the summit , i think all of these things fit human engineering , comfort , appearance , curved design .
dh:很明顯 , 這些不是我們的常規表演.這是我們不經意學會的.我們將要嘗試一下 。 可以來點鼓舞人心的音樂嗎 ?	dh: so obviously , these aren't our routines . this is something we don't accidentally learn . we're going to try . can we a little bit of inspirational music ?
bf:很棒的表演 , danial , 很棒.你了不起.	bf: great show , danal , great . you're amazing .
很棒的表演.很好.	great performance . great .
bf:人們做這些的時候 , 他們會一直落下去.	bf: when people do this , they're going to fall .
你實際上做了這些.	you actually did this .
就是這種額外的努力讓我們走到了今天 。	it's this extra effort that's getting us there .
dh:行 , 讓我們來表演點特殊的.	dh: yeah , let's do something special .
bf:這個不需要領導批准	bf: it doesn't have to lead .
對 , 來看看這個 , 全是一些不同的.....	yeah , let's look at this . it's all different .
老實講 , ted是關於發明創造的 。 dh:是的	ted , to be honest , is about invention . dh: yes .
bf:昨天michaelmoschen展示了一些雜技的道具是他發明的而且在繼續幹	bf: yesterday michael moschen showed some juggling props that he invented and carried on .
現在 , dan準備給我們展示他發明的一些東西	now , dan is ready to show us some of his inventions .
dh:我自己發明的一個道具在我看了另一個雜技演員表演之後製作的	dh: one of the things i invented myself after i watched another juggler .
dh:這是個小插曲	dh: it's a little socket .
dh:各位 , 這是搖搖杯道具 , 不是用來讓大家安靜的但肯定會慢下來	dh: ladies and gentlemen , this is a cracking glass gear , not for quieting people , but it's slowing down .
bf:噢對 , 是這樣	bf: oh yeah .
bf:噢daniel	bf: oh , daniel .
好.bf:噢 ! dh:好的	okay . bf: oh ! dh: okay .
讓我得寸進尺試一下 , 我來玩轉6個杯子	let me give you a sense of scale . i'm going to play six cups .
為了表演玩轉6個杯子 , 我必須控制好3個杯子在我右手	to play six cups , i have to control three cups in my right hand .
還有3個在我左手	there are three more hands on my left hand .
現在有6個杯子 , 讓我先試一下或者放棄呢 ?	now there are six cups that i'm going to try or give up first .
嘗試 , 放棄	try , give up .
放棄我先嚐試然後再決定 , 怎麼樣 ?	give me a try first , and then decide , what ?
bf:好主意 , 讓那個門開著	bf: good idea . open the door .
dh:他在看我	dh: he's watching me .
bf:好 , 他做那個 , 好的	bf: ok , he did that , ok .
dh:現在該richard出場幫忙了	dh: now richard comes out and helps .
噢 , 對	oh , yeah .
bf:你知道 , 多年以來 , 每年聚會時玩點刺激的東西成了我們的慣例還有richard.我們經常玩趕牛鞭子在我們的表演中你看可以看到 , 很有趣 , 這些年都是daniel拿氣球	bf: you know , for years , every year gatherings with stimulus has become our routine , and richard . and we often play catapults and whips in our performance , and you can see , interestingly , these are daniel getting the balloons from daniel .
我們在想 , " 真傻 "	we were thinking , " that's silly . "
dh:對不起 , 我們可以做那個麥克風設計的表演嗎 ?	dh: sorry , can we do that microphone design ?
bf:我想等下一個節再做	bf: i want to wait for the next one .
bf:是 , 我們找到了如何讓richard參與這個節目的辦法	bf: so we found a way to get richard to participate in this program .
他實際上做的比這個更危險	he actually did something much more dangerous than that .
dh:請站好 , richard	dh: stand up . richard .
dh:richard , 請	dh: richard , please .
bf:好 , 對不起	bf: ok , sorry .
dh:耶穌啊.richard , 請站到我前面	dh: jesus , richard , stand in front of me .
richardwurman:我可以說幾句嗎 ?	richard wurman: what can i say ?
rw:過去的每一年 , 我都和他們排練這個表演這些過去都做過這就是-我不知道 , 是真的	rw: i've rehearsed it with them every year , and it's been done i don't know . it's true .
dh:好 , 請站在...	dh: ok , please stand . . .
上帝 , 我討厭那個.把你的手這樣放 , 謝謝	god , i hate that . put your hand like this . thank you .
bf:靠前和他站一起.這是-	bf: stand up with him . this is it .
通常是dan來拿氣球的 , 但是現在有你保護著他	usually dan comes to take the balloon , but now you protect him .
看起來挺優雅的 , 好	it looks pretty elegant , ok .
df:哇 , 你以前練過 。	df: wow , you practiced it before .
bf:沒有 , 閉嘴	bf: no , shut up .
來一點理查德的時間 , 真好 , 很好	just a little bit of time , richard's good , good .
好 , 我們開始	okay , here we go .
讓他握住你的你的手腕 , 這樣我就可以	let him hold your wrist so i can .
dh:請握住我的手腕 , 保持一會兒	dh: please hold my wrist for a while .
好 , 保持住	ok , keep it there .
bf:這些年的電話都打過來了 , richard 。	bf: the phone calls came over the years , richard .
dh:那麼 , 理查德 , 我們在名單上嗎 ? 1020個 ?	dh: so richard , are we on the list , 1020 ?
bf:我想我們剛才在外邊	bf: i think we're just outside .
你這回可要被耍了	you're going to be juggled .
dh:別握我太緊	dh: don't hold me too tight .
bf:幹得好 , 我要開始了	bf: good job . i'm going to start .
dh:再來一次 , 再來一次	dh: one more time , one more .
bf:我們已經進行了一次	bf: we've done it once .
rw:我可以抓住氣球 ?	rw: can i catch the balloon ?
bf:對 , 你可不想抓 , 相信我	bf: yeah , you don't want to grab , trust me .
dh:你能分開一下腿嗎 ?	dh: can you separate your legs ?
bf:gloria , 你想這麼幹 ? 酷極了	bf: guloria , what do you want to do ? cool .
再來一次 , 哥們 , 我可不想它們靠的太近	and again , folks , i don't want them to get too close .
你能收一下腹嗎 ?	can you take it ?
dh:喔 , 哥們	dh: oh , guys .
bf:真酷.我一直想試試剛才的那個表演	bf: that's cool . i always wanted to do that .
dh:讓我們沿著這個方向來跳	dh: let's jump in this direction .
現在 , 我們冒著理查德的生命危險 , 只有我們冒著自己的危險才顯得公平 。	now , richard's lifethreatening danger is only fair to us if we risk ourselves .
因此 , 為了做到這一點 , 我要用這三個鋒利的鐮刀來雜耍 。	so in order to do that , i'm juggling with these three sharp sickles .
如果這個不夠鋒利 , 你們的反應也是以一樣的 。	if it wasn't sharp enough , your response was the same .
bf:哇 , 希望能更加鋒利點 。	bf: wow , i hope to be more sharp .
dh:是的 。 barry	dh: yes . barry .
bf:我要跑著跳過他 。	bf: i'm going to run over him .
dh:從我的肩膀上跳過 。	dh: jumping from my shoulders .
bf:從他的肩膀上面越過 。	bf: from his shoulders .
dh:在空中接到鐮刀 。 在那著地 , 倒在血泊中 。	dh: in the air , you get sickles , in the land , in the blood .
你說 , 不可能 ?	you say , impossible ?
bf:你說 , 不可思議 ?	bf: you said , incredible ?
dh:為什麼自找麻煩呢 , 你說 ?	dh: why do you find yourself in trouble ?
bf:我們開始 。	bf: here we go .
dh:你說 , 玩吧雜耍男孩 ?	dh: you say , juggling boys ?
bf:這傢伙發明了空氣 。	bf: this guy invented air .
dh:恩 , 是的 。	dh: well , yeah .
bf:他發明了鉛筆 。	bf: he invented the pencil .
dh:好的 , 我們開始這個特技 , 但請記住 , 我們花了十年的時間來完善它 。	dh: ok , we started this stunt , but remember , it took us 10 years to perfect it .
bf:十年來完善 , 你們將看到的是什麼呢 ?	bf: and what are you going to see over a decade ?
dh:其實沒那麼難 , 我們只是不喜歡練習太久 。	dh: it's not that hard , we just don't like practicing for too long .
bf:旅行太多 , 這個比較麻煩 。	bf: traveling too much , it's a bit more problematic .
事實上 , 我們會證實它們可能假的它們可能假的它們都是很鋒利的 。	in fact , we proved that they could be fake they were sharp .
dh:有人可以扔個農場的小動物到臺上來嗎 ?	dh: can someone throw a farm animal onstage ?
或者是個處女來犧牲 。	or a virgin sacrifice .
bf:她去拿農場動物去了 ?	bf: she went to get the farm animals ?
dh:你有農場小動物嗎 ?	dh: did you have small farm animals ?
只是想試一下可能性 。 好的 , 我們開始 。	just think about possibilities . okay , here we go .
bf:扔過頭頂 , 扔過頭頂 。	bf: throw it over your head , throw it over your head .
dh:你感覺怎麼樣 , barry , 你感覺好嗎 ?	dh: how did you feel , barry , how did you feel ?
bf:恩 , 可以的 。	bf: well , yeah .
dh:你感覺所有都好嗎 ? 氛圍 , 那個--	dh: how do you feel ?
bf:有一點模糊 。	bf: a little fuzzy .
dh:上面所有的都好嗎 ?	dh: all right ?
dh:好的 , 我們開始 。	dh: okay , here we go .
bf:這個有一點 , 誰負責燈光 ? 你可以把這燈直射進我的眼睛嗎 ? 我還能看到一點點 。	bf: this is a little bit , who's in charge of lighting , can you shoot this light in my eyes ? i can see a little bit .
dh:調大強度 , 我們中間還是粉紅色的 。	dh: big strength , we're still pink in the middle .
我們離得太遠了 。	we're way too far away .
bf:恩 , 太遠 。 這太多關於視覺的了 。	bf: well , too far . it's a lot about sight .
身體的設計完全不同的事情 。	the design of the body is completely different .
dh:準備好了嗎 , baryy 。 bf:扔過頭頂 。	dh: ready , bary . bf: throw over your head .
dh:可以放我們的音樂嗎 ?	dh: can we play our music ?
可以大點聲嗎 ?	can you shout out ?
bf:他們是很好的工作人員 !	bf: they're a great staff !
dh:噢 , 噢 。	dh: oh , oh .
bf:我們接著來 。	bf: so here we go .
dh:好的我們再試一次 。	dh: ok , let's try it again .
bf:好了嗎 ? 天	bf: all right ? god .
dh:對不起 。	dh: sorry .
bf:我想我的部分是難的 。	bf: i think part of me is hard .
dh:你什麼時候可以了都可以 。	dh: whenever you can .
bf:開始 。	bf: here we go .
來 , 跳起來 , 快來 , 跳啊 。	come on , jump up , come on , jump .
大家跳啊 。	everybody jumps .
哇 , 好的 , 停 。	wow , ok , pause .
奇怪 , 沒人跳舞 。 只有我們兩在這兒這樣 。	weird . no one dances . only two of us are here .
這肯定讓大家很不舒服 。	it's definitely uncomfortable .
dh:法國裁判	dh: the french judge .
bf:再來一個	bf: one more .
dh:法國裁判給了5.2分 。	dh: french judges 5 . 2 .
bf:恩 , 大家都知道	bf: well , everybody knows .
dh:恩 。 bf:還有另外一個	dh: well , there's another one .
dh:告訴他們我們的情況 。	dh: tell them about our situation .
bf:恩 , 有些我們的經歷你們可能知道 。 我們獲得了兩次世界雜耍冠軍 。 。	bf: well , some of our experiences , as you may know , we got two world juggling champions .
不管你相信與否 , 你不可能奪得世界雜耍冠軍靠長鞭和抖杯 。	whether or not you believe in it or not , you cannot win the world's juggling championship from whips and shaking cups .
我們將給大家展示一小段我們用來與其他隊來競爭冠軍的雜耍	we're going to show you a little bit of juggling that we use to compete with other teams .
我知道你在想什麼 , 別的雜耍隊一定很遜色 。	i know what you're thinking , the other juggling team must be gorgeous .
雜耍界有壞的說唱 。	the juggling world has bad raps .
但是 , barry , 還有一個棒子在我的腳旁邊 ,	but barry , there's a stick next to my feet .
看它有一個雙胞胎兄弟 。	look at it has a twin brother .
還有一個在我的腳的附近 ,	there's also a neighborhood near my feet .
你想要我怎麼做 。	you want me to do what i do .
理查德 , 理查德 , 你告訴他 。 這是你最後一年了 。	richard , richard , you tell him this is your last year .
這是一個不錯的機會 , 理查德 。	this is a great opportunity , richard .
恩 , 一個好機會 。	well , a good opportunity .
我要用我黑豹般的反應 。	i'm going to respond with my panther .
我明白了 , 俯身用勁抓棒子 。 俯身用勁抓棒子 。	i understood , swoop over and grab a stick , swoop over and grab a sticker .
我碰到了 , barry 。 這就足夠了 。	barry , i met , that's enough .
重要的是 , 這是進步 。	importantly , it's progress .
剛才怎麼樣 ? 噢 , 再嘗試一次 。	what happened ? oh , try again .
哦 , 等一下 , 它在你那邊 , barry 。	oh , wait , it's there , barry .
那邊有一整冷風啊 !	there's a wind .
是的 , 很奇怪啊 。 你不認為它會影響一半的舞臺嗎 。 是的 , 太怪異了 。	yeah , it's weird . don't you think it's going to affect half of the stage . yeah , it's weird .
請看 , 我將會把第七個棒子移動到我腳上 。	see , i'm going to move the seventh stick to my foot .
哇哦 ! 多麼厲害的把戲啊 , barry 。	whoa ! what a great trick , barry .
看 , 它在那躺著呢 。	see , it lies there .
哦 , barry , 難道你一無所為嗎 ?	oh , barry , don't you do nothing ?
你是我的英雄 , 你是我的小吉姆謝伊 。	you're my hero , you're my little jim thanky .
從我的腳上 , 我會踢起第七個棒子 。	from my feet , i would kick the seventh stick .
哪裡 , barry , 哪裡 ? 告訴我們想買 , barry 。	where , barry , where ? tell us to buy barry .
在等著你的下一句話呢 。 它會是什麼呢 ?	waiting for your next sentence . what is it going to be ?
什麼樣的知識呢 ?	what kind of knowledge ?
什麼樣的才智呢 ?	what kind of genius ?
你一個嗎 ? barry ,	do you have one ? barry .
這就是你最後的答案 ?	that's your last answer ?
好的 。 你有時必須得關閉電視 。	ok . you have to close the tv sometimes .
好的 , 好的 。	ok , ok .
從我的腳上 , 踢起第七個 。	from my feet , kick the seventh .
我們能玩七個 。	we can play with seven .
從六個到七個 。 dh:這是一個世界紀錄 。 我們的 。	from six to seven . dh: it's a world record .
大個子 , 無論你什麼時候準備好 。	big guy , whatever time you're ready .
收回你的舌頭 。 barry 。	take your tongue . barry .
哦 , 哦 , 喔 。	oh , oh , oh , oh .
請 , 請安靜 。 安靜 。 謝謝 。	please , quiet . quiet . thank you .
因為現在我們要把它變的更加困難 。 我們會把這七個棒子往後拋 。	because now we're making it harder . we're going to throw these seven sticks backwards .
dh:背對背 。	dh: back to back .
bf:謝謝 , 就是這樣 。	bf: thank you . that's it .
bf:謝謝大家	bf: thank you .
dh:非常感謝	dh: thank you very much .
出自tedxboston這個開放的演講中 , 理查德・雷斯尼克告訴我們基因測序是如何廉價並快速得顛覆醫療體制 。	in an open talk at tedx boston , richard resnick told us how genome sequencing is cheap and rapidly disrupting health systems .
dna , biotech , healthcare , science , technology	dna , biotech , healthcare , he's doing it .
理查德・雷斯尼克:歡迎進入基因革命時代	richard risnyk: welcome to the age of genetic revolution .
女士們先生們 , 我向您展示人類基因組	ladies and gentlemen , i'll show you the human genome .
左上是一號染色體	on the left is the chromosome number one .
右下是性染色體	here's a sex chromosome .
女性有兩條那個大大的x染色體男性有個x當然 , 還有個小小的y	women have two big x chromosomes , men have an x and , of course , a little y .
男士們 , 不好意思 , 就是那個小東西讓你不同	guys , sorry , that little thing makes you different .
如果放大這條基因組你看到的當然就是這個雙螺旋結構生命的密碼就是由這些生化的字母組成或者說鹼基 , 對吧:a , c , g和t	if you zoom in on this genome , of course you see the code of this double helix , of life , is made of these biochemical letters , or base , right , a , c , g and t .
人類基因組有多少這樣的結構 ? 30億	how much does the human genome have ? three billion .
這個數字大吧 ?	that's a big number ?
誰都能隨便談論大數字	anybody can talk about big numbers .
但是 , 如果我把一個鹼基放在這個1280×800螢幕的一個畫素上得要三千個螢幕一睹人類基因組	but if i put a base on one of these 1280 x 800 screens , it would take 3 , 000 screens to see the human genome .
所以這是非常大的	so it's very big .
也許因為這個規模的緣故一群人-都是帶y染色體的他們決定進行測序	maybe because of this scale , a group of people carrying y chromosomes , they decided to sequence them .
15年 , 實際上花了大約40億基因組獲得測序並公開了	in 15 years , it actually took about four billion genomes to be sequenced and public .
2003年最終 " 完成圖 " 面世 , 他們繼續完善它	in 2003 , when they finally finished the graph , they finished it .
這些都是由這樣個機器完成的	it's all done by a machine like this .
每個鹼基大概要花費1美元這樣工作非常緩慢	each base costs about one dollar , and that works really slow .
不過各位 , 我今天來要告訴你們這個世界大變模樣了你們還不知道呢	but ladies and gentlemen , i'm here to tell you how the world looks , and you don't know what ?
我現在做的是獲取一個基因組將其複製50份然後分割成50個鹼基讀數然後進行大規模同時測序	what i'm doing now is i'm taking a genome , i'm taking 50 copies of it , i'm breaking it down into 50 base readers , and then i'm sequencing it
然後用軟體重新合成並給你解讀	and then reintegrate it with software and interpret it .
為了讓你更直觀地瞭解人類基因組測序工程:3gb ,	to give you an idea of the human genome sequencing , 3gb .
在這樣的機器上測序:一週可完成200gb	in a machine like this: you can sequence 200 gigabits a week .
這個夏天將有望提升至600並且這種增長沒有放緩的趨勢	this summer will be up to 600 , and this growth will not be slowed down .
所以每個鹼基測序的價錢下降了一千萬倍	so the price of each base sequence is down 10 million times .
這就像你1998年給車加滿油等到2011年能到木星兩個來回	it's like you gave cars full gas in 1998 , and by 2011 , jupiters come back and forth .
世界人口pc配置醫學文獻檔案摩爾定律舊的測序方式 , 然後是這些新玩意	the world's population pc archives moore's lawsequences , and then these new things .
各位 , 這是個對數尺度你不會常看到趨勢像那樣上升	ladies and gentlemen , this is a matrix , and you don't see trends rising like that .
所以世界範圍內可進行人類基因組測序的能力今年大概是五萬到十萬人類基因組	so the ability to sequence the human genome in the world is between 50 , 000 and 100 , 000 human genomes this year .
這是依據被配置的機器估算的	this is based on a machine assignment .
而這在未來可能會每年翻兩番 , 三番 , 甚至四番	and this could go twice a year , triple , maybe even four .
實際上 , 有一個實驗室具備所有測序能力中的百分之二十	in fact , there's a lab that has about 20 percent of all sequencing power .
就是華大基因	it's the great genome .
中國人毫無疑問正在領跑這場新的登月競賽	the chinese are undoubtedly running this new moon race .
這對藥學來說什麼意義呢 ?	what does this mean for pharmaceuticals ?
如果一個37歲的女性	a 37yearold woman .
她患有ii期er陽性乳腺癌	she has ii positive breast cancer .
她正在接受手術治療 , 化療和放射治療	she's being treated surgically , chemotherapy and radiation .
2年後 , 她發現患上iii期c卵巢癌	two years later , she found ovarian cancer in ii .
不幸的是 , 再次接受手術和化療	unfortunately , receiving surgery and chemotherapy .
3年後她42歲又患上卵巢癌 , 接受更多的化療	three years later , she was 42 years old , she had ovarian cancer , she got more chemotherapy .
6個月後她患上急性髓性白血病	six months later , she suffered from acute myeloid leukemia .
最後呼吸衰竭八天後死亡	eventually , eight days after breathing failure .
首先她接受的10年治療基本就是放血	the first 10 years of her treatment was basically bloodletting .
正因為有人 , 比如我的同事 , 裡克・威爾森他工作與華盛頓大學的基因組研究所決定對她屍檢	and because somebody like my colleague , richard wilson , who works with the genome institute at washington university , decided to test her .
他進行測序 , 他取了皮膚細胞 , 健康的皮膚和癌化的骨髓他測定兩者的所有基因組區區幾周後	he sequenced it , he took skin cells , healthy skin and carcinogenic bone marrow , and he determined all the genomes in the genome a few weeks later .
他用軟體對比兩組基因組他發現了30億鹼基裡有兩千個鹼基的丟失這是在一個叫tp53的基因上	he compared the two genomes in software , he found 2 , 000 base throws in three billion base pairs in a gene called tp53 .
如果這個基因發生有害突變就有百分之九十的可能患癌	if this gene is a harmful mutation , it's 90 percent likely to have cancer .
很不幸這沒能幫到這位女性但這對她的家人來說是很重要深刻的啟示	unfortunately , this didn't help this woman , but this was an important revelation for her family .
如果他們有同樣的突變他們接受基因測試然後瞭解到該情況他們就可以接受常規檢查並早點發現病症從而可以大大延長生命	if they have the same mutations , they take genetic testing , and they understand what's going on , they can be regularly checked and discovered early on , and they can expand their lives .
讓我來介紹畢瑞兄妹他們在2歲時被診斷為腦癱	let me introduce you to the billy sister who was diagnosed at the age of two .
他們的母親是個非常勇敢的女性她不相信診斷符合症狀透過她不懈努力和網上搜索她說服了醫療人員他們患是另一種病	their mother was a very brave woman who didn't believe that diagnosis was symptoms , and through her effort and her online searching , she convinced the members that they had a different disease .
多巴反應性肌張力失常	dopatient muscle dysfunction .
所以採用l-多巴治療他們的病情確實有所改善但是並沒有完全消除	so treating them with ldopa actually improved , but not completely eliminated .
照片中的男士叫喬・畢瑞很幸運地他是一家叫做生命科技的公司的資訊長	this is a guy named joe berry , who's lucky enough to be a company called life technology .
這家公司是提供基因組測序裝置的兩大供應商之一	this company is one of the two largest suppliers for genome sequencing .
所以他測定他的孩子	so he determined his children .
他們發現了spr基因上的一個系列突變這個片段與產生血清素的功能相關	they found a series of mutations in the spr genome associated with producing serotonin .
所以除了l-多巴 , 他們也用血清素前體藥物輔以治療孩子們恢復正常了	so in addition to l doba , they were using preemple serotonin medication to treat the children normally .
各位 , 沒有基因組測序這些都無法實現	folks , no genome sequencing , none of that will happen .
當時 , 幾年前的時候 , 花費高達10萬美元	at that time , a few years ago , it took up to 100 , 000 dollars .
如今是一萬美元 , 明年會是一千	it's 10 , 000 dollars now , and it's going to be 1 , 000 next year .
後年是一百	the following year is 100 .
就是這麼快	that's how fast it is .
這是小尼克他喜歡蝙蝠俠和水槍	this is nick , and he loves batman and water guns .
尼克去兒童醫院接受治療他的肚子漲得像饑荒兒童一樣	nick went to the children's hospital , and he was treated like a famine kid .
這不是因為他不吃而是他吃的時候 , 他的腸子就開啟廢物進入腹腔	it's not because he doesn't eat , but when he eats , his gut opens up the waste and enters the abdomen .
在經歷了無數手術後他看著媽媽說 " 媽媽 , 為我祈禱吧 , 我十分痛苦 "	and after surgery , he looked at his mom and said , " mom , pray for me , i'm very painful . "
他的兒科醫生恰好有臨床遺傳學方面的背景他不知道問題出在哪兒他說 " 讓我們給他做基因組測序吧 "	his pediatrician happened to have a background in clinical genetics , and he didn't know where the problem was , and he said , " let's sequence his genome . "
然後他們在控制程式性細胞死亡的基因上發現一個單點突變	and they found a single point mutation in the gene that controls programmed cell death .
所以根源就是他對食物有種免疫反應這是種自然反應 , 它會導致程式性細胞死亡	so the root cause was that he had an immune response to food , a natural response that causes programmed cell death .
但這個基因的此種功能出現問題	but there's a problem with the function of this gene .
所以對於這個問題他接受了骨髓移植的治療	so he got the bone marrow transplantation .
9個月艱難的康復期後他能吃a1沙司了	after nine months of hard recovery , he could eat a1sts .
利用基因組作為萬能診斷方法的前景正在到來	the promise of using the genome as a method to diagnose is coming .
就是今天 , 就在這裡	and that's where we are today .
這對這屋子裡的每一個人來說意味著我們可以多活十到二十年就是因為這項技術	this means that for everybody in this room 10 to 20 years , it's because of the technology .
這是個神奇的故事當然還有人類遍佈全球的足跡和我們追趕糧食產量的能力	it's a fantastic story , and of course , humanity is spreading global footprints and our ability to chase food production .
不過這項技術同樣可以被利用於種植新型玉米 , 麥子 , 大豆和其他糧食能夠抵抗乾旱和洪水害蟲和殺蟲劑	but this technique can also be used to grow new corn , wheat , soy and other foods that can resist droughts and flood pesticides and pesticides .
隨著人口不斷增長我們會不得不使用轉基因產品這是我的唯一立場	as the population keeps growing , we're going to have to use transgenic products , and that's my only position .
除非觀眾中有人決定絕食	unless someone in the audience decides to eat it .
不 , 沒人會	no , nobody does .
這是個打字機數十年前每個書桌上都有一個	this is a typewriter that had one on every desk a few decades ago .
實際上 , 打字機完全被這個取代了	in fact , the typewriter was completely replaced by this .
然後是更多代文字處理器面世	and then there's more generations of text processors .
不過 , 最令人措手不及的	however , the most remarkable .
還是鮑勃・梅得卡夫發明了乙太網電腦的聯網革命性地改變了一切	or bob medekaf , who invented the internet revolution in computer b , changed everything .
突然我們就有了netscape , 雅虎然後是整個網際網路的泡沫經濟	suddenly we had netscape , yahoo , and foam economy throughout the internet .
不過別擔心ipod , facebook又拯救了我們當然還有憤怒地小鳥	but don't worry about ipods , facebook rescues us , and , of course , angry birds .
這就是我們今天所處	that's where we are today .
這是基因革命地時代 , 我們所處地時代	this is the age of genomic revolution .
我希望你們考慮的是:如果這些點不是代表你的基因的鹼基而是整個星球上基因相連這意味著什麼 ?	what i want you to think about is: if these dots are not the base for your genes , but the genes connected to genes all over the planet , what does that mean ?
我不久前才買了人身保險	i didn't recently buy insurance .
我被這樣問道:a.我從來沒有進行過基因測試 , b.我有過 , 沒戲了c.我有過但我不說出來	i was asked this: a . i've never done a genome test , b . i've had , i've never done a c . i've had a c . i've ever done that , but i won't say it .
很幸運 , 我還能選a要是我的保險代理人在聽著的話我可確實沒說謊	fortunately , i can choose a if my insurance advocate is listening , and i don't lie .
如果我選的是c呢 ?	what if i chose c ?
基因組學的消費需求將大大增加	the demand for genomics is going to increase dramatically .
你想不想知道你跟女友的基因是否相容 ? 當然	do you want to know if you compatible with your girlfriend's genes ?
要不要在你的iphone上基因測序 ? 有這麼一個應用	what about sequencing genomes on your iphone ?
有人想要個人定製的基因學按摩嗎 ?	anybody want a personalized genomics massage ?
如今已經有個實驗室為avpr1基因上的等位基因334測序所謂的欺騙基因	now there's a laboratory called the apr1 genome 334 sequences , known as deception .
誰今天是和你重要的另一半一起來的只要轉過去 , 刮下他/她的口腔寄到那個實驗室你就知道了	who's half of what's important to you today , by just spinning , scraping him , scraping him , sending him to that lab , you know .
你想不想選一個可能患心肌病的總統 ?	do you want to choose a president who might have a heart muscle ?
假設 , 現在是2016年競選人不僅公開她四年的稅後申報還有她的個人基因組	let's say it's 2016 campaigners , not just publishing her four years of tax recognition , but her personal genome .
看上去很不錯	it looks good .
然後她要求其他的競爭者也這麼做	and then she asked the other competitors to do the same .
你覺得這不可能發生 ?	do you think that's impossible ?
你覺得這會幫到約翰・麥凱恩 ?	did you think that would help john mckeen ?
觀眾裡有多少人跟我同一個姓 , 雷斯尼克 ? 請舉手	how many people in the audience have names like me , resnick ? raise your hand .
明顯 , 有一兩個	apparently , one or two .
我父親是雷斯尼克10兄弟種的一個	my father was one of lesnice 10 brothers .
他們相互不喜歡	they don't like each other .
他們移居到這世界上不同的角落	they move to different parts of the world .
所以好比我與我遇到過的雷斯尼克都有關係 , 但我不確定	so it's associated with resnick , which i've met , but i'm not sure .
試想如果我的基因組被確定 , 儲存在軟體裡一個三表兄弟的基因組也是有軟體可以對比兩個並且聯絡上	imagine if my genome was determined , stored in software , a threecoust genome with software that contrasts two and contacts .
不難想像 , 我的公司就有這樣的軟體	and it's not hard to imagine that my company had this software .
那麼再像一下如果軟體可向雙方徵詢同意書 " 你想不想與你的三表兄見面 ? "	so it's like , if software can ask both sides for agreement , " would you like to meet your three cousins ? "
如果兩人都說是耶 ! 歡迎來到染色體linkedin網站	and if both people say yes , welcome to the chromosome , linkedin .
這也許是個好事	maybe that's a good thing .
你可以有個大家族	you can have a people .
也可能是壞事	it could be a bad thing .
這屋子裡有多少父親 ? 請舉手	how many fathers in this room ? raise your hand .
好的 , 專家認為你們中間百分之一到三的人並不是你孩子的父親	well , experts think that one to three percent of you are not your children's fathers .
這個-這些基因組 , 這23個染色體它們並不代表我們人際關係的質量或者我們這個社會的性質-至少目前還沒有	this genome , these 23 chromosomes , doesn't represent the mass of our relationships , or the nature of our society at least not yet .
如同任何新科技都取決與人類自己是否用於對人類有益的一面	like any new technology , it's determined whether it's good for humans .
所以我強烈期望你們所有人醒悟並參與到這場發生在你們周圍的基因革命	so i strongly expect all of you to recognize and participate in the genomic revolution around you .
丹尼爾•克拉夫特演示骨髓採集器--這個新發明很快地採集救生的骨髓 , 極大地減輕捐贈者的痛苦 。 他特別指出 , 骨髓中發現的成人幹細胞可治療許多晚期疾病 , 從帕金森氏綜合症到心臟病 。	daniel kravet showed the bone marrow gathererer a new invention that soon gathered the lifesaving bone marrow , dramatically reduced the pain of donors . and he specifically showed that adult stem cells in the bone marrow could be treatable for many late diseases , from parkinson’s syndrome to heart disease .
biology , biotech , health , healthcare , medicine , science , technology	biology , biotech , healthcare , medicine .
丹尼爾•克拉夫特發明了更好採集骨髓的儀器	daniel kravet invented an instrument to gather bone marrow .
我是一名癌症兒科醫生也是斯坦福大學的幹細胞研究者 。 我臨床研究的重點一直是骨髓移植 。	i'm a pediatrician and stem cell researcher at stanford university , and i've been working on bone marrow transplantation .
去年吉爾•伯特•泰勒的演示啟發了我 , 今天我沒有帶來人類的大腦 , 卻帶來了一升骨髓 。	last year , kilbert taylor's demonstration inspired me that today i haven't brought a human brain , but i've brought an extra marrow .
事實上 , 它用來挽救成千上萬人的生命 。 他們中大多數人患有白血病和淋巴瘤等晚期惡性腫瘤或者其他的疾病 。	in fact , it's used to save thousands of lives , most of them have leukemia and lymph nodes and so on .
幾年前 , 我在斯坦福大學作骨髓移植研究員 。	a few years ago , i was a bone marrow transplant researcher at stanford .
在手術室 , 我給鮑勃做手術 。 他是一名骨髓捐贈志願者 。	in the operating room , i gave bob surgery , a bone marrow donor volunteer .
為了挽救一個白血病兒童 , 我們要橫穿美國派送他的骨髓 。	to save a child with leukemia , we're going to cross the bone marrow across the united states .
那麼 , 目前我們怎樣採集骨髓呢 ?	so how do we harvest bone marrow so far ?
噢 , 我們有專業的手術室團隊 , 全身麻醉 , 護士和我一起操刀的另一名醫生 。	oh , we have a professional operating room team , anesthesia , and nurses and i have another doctor with the knife .
鮑勃在手術檯上 , 我們用這種小針頭 , 你知道的 , 不是特別大的 。	bob is on the table , and we use these little needles , you know , not particularly big .
我們通常要做的是 , 把這個針頭穿過軟體組織 , 在硬骨穿個孔 , 到臀部裡面--這是個醫學術語--用針管抽取大約10毫升骨髓出來 , 每次一個針管 。	what we usually do is , we're going to go through the needle through the software tissue , through the hard bone , into the hips this is a medical term taking about 10 milliliters of the bone marrow out of the bone marrow , each time .
我遞給護士針管 , 她收集骨髓到一個錫袋 。	i handed it to a nurse , and she collected the bone marrow to a tiny bag .
然後再遞給我針管 。 我們如此重複	and then hand me a needle . we repeat that .
通常要200次左右 。	it's usually about 200 or so times .
手術結束後我胳膊痠痛 , 手上都長了老繭 。 更不用說鮑勃 , 他的屁股看上去更像是這個 , 瑞士乳酪的樣子 。	i was sore at the end of the surgery that i grew a cocoon , let alone bob , whose butt looked more like this , swiss cheese .
你知道的 , 這個方法已經40年都沒有改變了 。	you know , it hasn't changed for 40 years .
可能有更好的方法去採集 。	there could be a better way to gather .
我就想到一個微創的辦法 。 這個新發明就是骨髓採集器 。	so i came up with a miniature solution . this is a bone marrow gatherererer .
它的工作原理如下 。	here's how it works .
我們通常的患者一看就知 。	our patients are often aware .
不用多次穿刺 , 採集器只需一次 , 就進入到的屁股前面和後面 。	instead of puncture multiple times , the gatherer only once would be able to reach the front and back .
這種可彎曲的 , 有動力的中空管子並帶有特殊金屬環狀頂端 , 它能夠進入骨髓海綿狀的部分 , 並沿著臀部的輪廓而移動採集 。	this curved , motivated hollow tube with its specific metal , is able to enter the sponges of the sponge and move the gather along the outlines of the hips .
所以 , 你透過一個穿孔就可以非常快地採集 , 和吸取大量的骨髓 。	so you can gather very quickly through a hole and take a lot of bone marrow .
你可以多次同樣的操作只是不一樣的路線 。	you can operate multiple times just different routes .
這樣 , 非常快 , 鮑勃只需一個穿刺 , 區域性麻醉 , 不需入院 , 就可得到他的骨髓 。	in this case , very quickly , bob only needed one puncture , local anesthesia , to get his bone marrow without getting in the hospital .
我得到斯坦福很小的資金資助然後做了一些模型 。	i got stanford very small funding and made some models .
漸漸的展示這個發明 。	and it's gradually demonstrating this invention .
我們團隊開發了這一技術 。	our team developed this technology .
後來 , 我們臨床試驗兩個大型動物 , 和豬的應用研究 。	later , we tried two major animals and pig studies .
我們驚訝地發現 , 比起普通儀器來 , 藉助骨髓採集器 , 我們不僅採集了骨髓 , 還得到了10倍多的活體幹細胞 。	we were surprised to learn that by using bone marrow gathering , we not only collected bone marrow , we got 10 times more living stem cells .
去年美國食品和藥品管理局剛剛批准了這個發明 。	last year , the fda approved this invention .
你可以看這個倖存病人的例子 , 採集器沿著彎曲的路線轉動 。	and you can look at this example of surviving patients , the gathererers rotating along a curved route .
它是從同一個穿孔 , 同一個病人 , 兩條紋路採集 。	it comes from the same porous , the same patient , the same striped road collection .
這樣病人只需區域性麻醉 , 不用入院 。	so the patients needed local anesthesia , no entry .
比起普通方法 , 我們又一次從同一個病人身上採集了3至6倍左右多的幹細胞 。	again , we collected three to six times more stem cells from the same patient than the average method .
那麼 , 你為什麼要在乎呢 ? 因為骨髓是幹細胞非常豐富的來源 。	now , why should you care ? because bone marrow is a very rich source of stem cells .
你們都知道胚胎幹細胞 。	you all know about embryonic stem cells .
他們有很大的潛力 , 但是還沒有進入臨床試驗階段 。	they have a lot of potential , but they haven't yet entered the clinical trial .
成人幹細胞卻遍佈全身 , 包括骨髓裡的造血幹細胞 。 它一直是用來幹細胞治療的方法有40多年了 。	adult stem cells are all over the body , including the blood stem cells in the bone marrow , and it's been used to treat stem cells for over 40 years .
在過去的十年 , 大量激增用骨髓幹細胞去治療患者的其他疾病例如心臟病 , 血管疾病 , 整形外科 , 細胞組織工程 , 甚至在神經病學治療帕金森綜合症和糖尿病 。	over the last 10 years , massively bone marrow stem cells have been used to treat patients with diseases like heart disease , cardiovascular disease , surgery , cellular tissue engineering , even in neurology to treat parkinson's complex and diabetes .
今年我們剛推出並投放市場的第2.0代骨髓採集器 。	we just launched and dropped the 2 . 0th marrow gatherer this year .
希望是 , 這項發明採集更多的幹細胞 。 它得到更好的應用 。	hopefully , this invention is gathering more stem cells . it gets better applications .
鼓勵更多的人去申請當骨髓捐贈者 , 能派上用場挽救生命 。	encourage more people to apply for bone marrow donors to help save lives .
當你年輕和健康時 , 你也可以儲存你自己的骨髓幹細胞 , 一旦你需要 , 可以隨時使用 。	you can also store your own bone marrow stem cells when you're young and healthy , once you need it , you can use it anytime .
最後 , 請看我們骨髓移植康復者的照片 。 每年在斯坦福大學我們一起聚會 。	finally , let's look at our bone marrow transplant survivors , and each year we gather at stanford university .
希望未來這項技術可以拯救更多的病人 。	hopefully , this technology will save more patients .
物理學家兼衝浪運動員的加勒特里斯展示了一個全新的富有爭議的宇宙模型 。 這個模型可能解決了所有終極問題 。 這可能是大家能見到的最漂亮的關於基本粒子和力學的8維模型 。	the galutrius of the physicist and the surfer showed a brandnew , controversial model of the universe that could solve all the ultimate problems , probably the most beautiful 8dimensional model of elementary particles and mechanics that you can see .
physics , science , technology	physics , he said , " y'all . "
加勒特里斯的大統一理論	the great unification theory of garretris .
大家來看看這些嚇人的方程式爽啊	let's look at these terrifying equations .
在接下來的18分鐘裡面我會盡我所能在不用方程的前提下讓大家領略粒子物理的美妙	in the next 18 minutes , i'm going to do everything i can to get to the beauty of particle physics without using an equation .
人們發現能在珊瑚身上學到不少東西	people have found that there's a lot to learn from corals .
珊瑚是一種極其漂亮而不平常的動物	corals are an incredibly beautiful , unusual animal .
每一簇珊瑚都由成千上萬的獨立的珊瑚蟲組成	each of these corals is comprised of thousands of individual corals .
這些珊瑚蟲都不停地生長分裂變成基因相同的鄰居	these corals are constantly growing and dividing into genetically identical neighbors .
假設這些珊瑚有超常的智商我們就可以抓住其中一個來問他一個簡單的問題	suppose these corals have an extraordinary iq , we can grab one of them and ask him a simple question .
你是為什麼恰好出現在這個位置呢 ? 而不是周圍其他地方--這是偶然造成的命運安排的還是其他因素 ?	why did you happen to be in this position rather than the rest of the surroundings accidentally arranged or something else ?
在透過全球變暖對我們發出警告之後他說 , 問這種問題真是愚蠢之極	and after a global warming to us , he said , " what a stupid question to ask is this . "
你知道這珊瑚有時還真的不太客氣我衝浪的傷痕就是證明	you know , sometimes these corals aren't really nice , and the surge is proof .
這個珊瑚蟲接著說它的鄰居就是和它一模一樣的複製品	this coral , then , says its neighbor is exactly the same replication as it does .
它和其他珊瑚合為一個整體只是表現為不同的個體而已	it's a combination of other corals , but it's only represented by individuals .
對於珊瑚來說分裂出不同個體是再自然不過的事情了	for corals to split individuals , they're just natural .
和我們不同高智商珊瑚已具備理解量子力學的能力	unlike our high iq , corals have the capacity to understand quantum mechanics .
量子力學透過數學方法準確描述宇宙的執行模式	quantum mechanics describes the executive patterns of the universe accurately .
它告訴我們現實世界和珊瑚一樣也是不同可能性的分化	it tells us that the real world is just as different as the corals .
人類很難理解這一問題因為每個人只能經歷一種人生	it's hard for us to understand that , because all we have is a life .
這種量子力學的奇特現象最早由歐文薛定諤和他的貓提出	this bizarre phenomenon of quantum mechanics first proposed by erwin erwin erw
貓更青睞這個版本	cats favor this version .
在此實驗中薛定諤待在含有放射物質的箱子裡根據量子力學原理放射物質有兩種可能情況可能衰變或者不衰變	in this experiment , erwin schrodinger serves in a box with radioactive substances , and radioactive substances based on the principle of quantum mechan
如果粒子發生衰變 , 會激發連鎖反應釋放毒氣薛定諤就死了	if a particle has a decay , it triggers a chain reaction to release the poison schrotcher derwalk , which dies
但在另一種可能中他會活下來	but in another possibility , he would survive .
每個個體只能經歷其中的一種情形	each individual can only experience one of those .
另一種可能對他來說並不存在	another possibility didn't exist for him .
這顯得非常奇怪因為我們只能感知自身所處的狀態而感覺不到其他狀態	and this is very strange , because we can only perceive our own state of being , and we cannot feel anything else .
我們和薛定諤一樣 , 如同那些被分化成不同的狀態的珊瑚	we erwin schrodinger , like those that have been differentiated into different states .
量子力學用數學方法告訴我們這就是微觀世界的法則	the mathematics of quantum mechanics tells us this is the law of the microscopic world .
用一句話來概括:一切可能發生的事情都在發生	to summarize this: everything could be happening .
但是這並不代表任何事情都會發生	but that doesn't mean that anything happens .
物理學的其他方向則描述哪些可以發生哪些不可以	other directions in physics describe what could happen .
物理學告訴我們一切都可用幾何學和基本粒子的相互作用來解釋	physics tells us that everything can be explained by geometry and the interaction of the elementary particles .
只有在這些相互作用恰到平衡的時候事情才有可能發生	and it's only when those interactions are perfectly balanced that things can happen .
現在我將講述我們對這些粒子的認識它們是什麼平衡機制如何運作	now i'm going to tell you a little bit about what we know about these particles , what the equilibrium system works .
在此裝置中 , 一簇質子和一簇反質子被加速到接近光速的速度然後迎頭相撞 , 產生出一股巨大的純能量	in this device , a cluster of protons and a cluster of antiprotons are accelerated to near the speed of light , and then welcome the head to collide with each other , generating a giant pure energy .
這些能量迅速轉化以亞原子形式噴射出來周圍的檢測儀和電腦將對他們的性質加以分析	these energy rapidly translates into subatomic sprays , surrounding detectors and computers , analyzing their properties .
這個位於日內瓦歐核中心的巨型機器名叫大型強子對撞機周長17英里 , 運轉時消耗的能量相當於蒙特利爾全市用電量的5倍	this giant machine at the center of geneva , called the large hadron collider , 17 miles per week , consumes as much energy as the city of monterey , five times as much power as the city of monterey .
我們無法精確預測哪些粒子會在每次對撞後產生	we can't predict precisely which particles will occur after each collision .
量子力學告訴我們一切皆有可能	quantum mechanics tells us that everything is possible .
但物理學告訴我們哪些粒子有可能產生	but physics tells us which particles are possible .
這些產生的粒子的質量和能量必須和質子和反質子的守恆	the mass and energy of these particles must be conserved with protons and antiprotons .
任何質量超過了這一限制的粒子都不會出現 , 因此我們不會看到 。	no particles that don't show up beyond this limitation , so we don't see them .
這個新型粒子加速器令人無比興奮的原因就在於	the reason this new particle accelerator is so exciting .
它達到的能量極限是以前的7倍多所以我們很快會看到新的粒子	it reachs an energy limit seven times more than ever before , so we're going to see new particles very quickly .
在討論未知粒子之前我先介紹下那些已知的粒子 。	before i talk about the unknown particles , i first introduce those known particles .
亞原子多得都可以組建動物園了	subatomic atoms can be assembled into a zoo .
大部分人都知道電子	most of you know about electrons .
在座的各位的工作有不少和它密切相關	there's a lot of people in this room who are working closely with it .
電子有個不帶電的夥伴叫做中微子 , 不帶電 , 質量極小 。	electrons have a partner with no electricity called neutrinos , no electricity , very small mass .
與此相反 , 上夸克和下夸克質量很大把三者合在一起就得到原子裡的質子和中子 。	instead , up quarks and lower quarks are massively combined to get protons and neutrons in atoms .
這些粒子分為兩類左旋和右旋而且它們都有攜帶相反電荷的反粒子	these particles are divided into left and righthanded , and they all carry antiparticles that carry opposite charges .
這些熟悉的粒子還有我們不太熟悉的第二代和第三代電量和第一代相同但質量大很多	these familiar particles , and the second and third generations that we're not familiar with , are much the same as the first generation , but much more mass .
粒子透過基本力相互作用	particles interact with each other through a fundamental force .
電磁力透過光子和帶電物質相互作用	electromagnetic force interacts with photons and charges .
還有一種十分微弱的力很直接的叫做弱力這個力只和左旋的物質相作用	there's also a very weak force called the weak force , which works only with the materials on the left .
夸克以色荷為載體透過強力相互作用色荷分三種紅綠藍	the quarks are charged with charge , and the charges work by strong forces , the color charges , the three red , green , and blue .
這都是默裡蓋爾曼的錯名字是他起的	merrieleman's fault name was his fault .
最後就是重力透過質量和旋轉作用於物體	and finally , gravity works by spinning mass and spinning objects .
最重要的是每一種力都對應有不同的載荷	and most importantly , each of these forces corresponds to a different charge .
四種力透過各自粒子所攜帶的載荷和物質發生作用	these four forces work by charges and materials that each particle carries .
有一種我們沒見過但確信存在的粒子稱為希格斯粒子它使所有粒子有了質量	there's a particle we've never seen , but it's a higgs particle , which gives mass to all the particles .
大型強子對撞機的主要目的是發現希格斯粒子我們確信可以做到	the main purpose of the large hadron collider is to discover that the higgs particles can be done .
但最大的奧秘在於我們還能看到什麼	but the biggest mystery is what else we can see .
我會在演講最後向你們展示美好的藍圖	i'm going to show you a nice blueprint at the end of this talk .
現在如果我們用不同的自旋和載荷計算所有可能的粒子共有226種	now , if we calculate all possible particles with different spins and charges , there are 226 .
數目大得驚人	and it's pretty big .
大自然擁有這麼多的基本粒子是多麼奇妙啊	how amazing is nature to have so many elementary particles ?
但如果我們按他們各自的載荷把他們畫出來會出現一些美麗的圖案	but if we plot them out on their charges , there are some beautiful patterns .
我們最熟悉的載荷是電荷 。	the most familiar charge we have is charge .
電子擁有一個負電荷 。 而夸克擁有1/3的電荷 。	electrons have a negative charge , and quarks have a third of their electric charge .
由2個上夸克和1個下夸克生成的質子有一個正電荷	two up quarks and one down quark make up a proton that has a positive charge .
粒子還有極性相反的反粒子 。	particles also have opposite antimicles .
我們發現電荷實際上是另兩種載荷的結合超荷和弱荷	we found that electric charge was actually a combination of two charges , hypercharges and weak charges .
如果我們把超荷和弱荷分開在這個二維載荷空間上畫出粒子的載荷電荷就在這些粒子的垂直方向上	if we separate the hypercharge and weak charge into this twodimensional charge space , the charges of the particles are on the vertical direction of these partic
電磁力和弱力透過超荷和弱荷與物質相互作用從而形成這一圖案	electromagnetic and weak forces interact with each other through supercharge and weak charge and matter to form this pattern .
我們稱之為電弱統一模型於1967年提出	we call this the unified electronic vulnerability model in 1967 .
因為希格斯粒子的緣故我們只對電荷有了解卻不知道超荷和弱荷	because the higgs particles , we only know about electric charge but we don't know about hypercharge and weak charge .
左邊的希格斯粒子質量很大打破了電弱圖案的對稱性	the higgs particles on the left are significantly disrupting the symmetry of an electrical weak pattern .
透過給弱子較大的質量使弱力更加弱	by giving a larger mass to the weak , it makes it weaker .
由於大量的希格斯粒子在水平方向分佈產生電磁力的光子仍然沒有質量而且在載荷空間中和電荷相互作用	because massive higgs particles distribute in the horizontal direction , producing electromagnetic photons still don't have mass , and interact with electric charges in the charge space .
所以電磁力和弱力在這個二維空間中透過粒子載荷的圖案表示出來	so electromagnetic and weak force are represented in this twodimensional pattern of particle charges .
我們可以把強力沿兩個載荷的方向表示出來然後將載荷用夸克形式沿這兩個方向畫出來	we can express the strong force along two charge directions and draw the charges in the form of quarks along both directions .
所有已知粒子的載荷可以在四維空間中畫出來然後投影到二維空間以便我們能觀察到	the charges of all known particles can be drawn out in four dimensions and projected into two dimensions so that we can see them .
無論粒子如何作用自然會在這四個載荷方向上保持完美的平衡	no matter how particles act , nature remains perfectly balanced in these four charge directions .
一個粒子如果和它的反粒子相撞會產生能量四個電荷方向的載荷疊加變為零	if a particle collides with its antiparticles , it creates a charge stack to zero charge in four charge directions .
這樣只要保持能量相同和載荷總量為零可以產生任何物質	this keeps energy identical to the amount of charge and zero makes any material .
比如說這個弱子和它的反粒子可以在碰撞中產生	for instance , this weak particle and its antiparticle can be produced in a collision .
在之後的相互作用中載荷必須保持平衡	in later interactions , charges must be balanced .
一個弱子可以衰退成一個電子和一個反中微子而這三個的總載荷仍然是零	a weak man can decay into an electron and an antimicroneutron , and these three charges remain zero .
大自然總是會保持完美的平衡	nature always keeps a perfect balance .
所以這些電荷的圖案不僅漂亮	so these charges aren't just beautiful .
還告訴我們什麼樣的相互作用是符合規則的	and tell us what kind of interactions we're dealing with are the rules .
如果在四維空間中旋轉載荷空間可以從更好的角度觀察強相互作用也就是這個美麗的對稱六角形結構	if you rotate the charge space in four dimensions , you can look at strong interactions from a better angle , which is this beautiful hexagonal structure .
在強相互作用中強子比如說這個會和色夸克相互作用比如這個綠夸克這樣的作用會讓夸克帶上不同的色荷比如這個紅夸克	in strong interactions , the strong forces , such as this one , interact with the colored quark , such as this green quark , which lead to different color charges , such as this red quark .
強相互作用每秒鐘會在我們身體的每個原子裡發生上百萬次使原子核保持一體	powerful interactions occur millions of times in every atom of our bodies , keeping atomic nuclei one .
但是和三種力相對應的這四種載荷還不是終點	but these four charges correspond to three forces are not the end .
我們還可以根據重力匯入兩個載荷	we can also throw two charges according to gravity .
匯入後每個粒子會有自旋向上和自旋向下兩種自旋載荷	when each particle comes in , each particle has spinning up and spinning down two spin charges .
若把它們全部分開會在六維載荷空間中形成漂亮的圖案	and when you open them all up , they form beautiful patterns in sixdimensional charge spaces .
在六維空間中將這個圖案進行旋轉我們會發現它十分漂亮	rotating this pattern in six dimensions , we find it beautiful .
這個圖案把我們已知的自然界在微觀世界中的粒子組成完全呈現出來了	this pattern reveals the particles that we know about nature in the microworld .
這是我們能確定的	this is something we can be sure of .
其中的一些粒子在實驗中很難看到	some of these particles are hard to see in experiments .
從這個圖案中我們瞭解了微觀世界的粒子組成宇宙在這種微觀世界中的執行模式是異常美麗的	in this pattern , we understand that particles in the microworld are executed in this microscopic world are incredibly beautiful .
接下去我想講一下關於未知領域的一些新老觀念	i'm going to move on to some new concepts about the unknown .
我們把這個圖案用數學方法進一步擴充套件看看能不能俯瞰全貌	we took this pattern , and we mathematically expanded it , to see if we could look at the whole thing .
我們希望找到構成宇宙的所有種類的粒子和力	we want to find all the particles and forces that make up the universe .
然後在獲得更高能量進行實驗之前用這幅圖案預測新的粒子	and then , before you get higher energies , you can see this pattern predicting new particles .
量子物理學的舊觀念認為這個不對稱的載荷圖案源於一個更完美的圖案跟希格斯粒子使電弱圖案分裂產生電磁力是一個道理	the old idea of quantum physics is that this asymmetric charge pattern comes from a more perfect pattern with the higgs particles that divide the pattern to generate electromagnetic force .
因此我們要匯入含有新的載荷方向的新的力	so we need to add new power to new charge directions .
在匯入新方向的時候我們要猜測在這個方向上粒子帶有什麼樣的載荷然後我們就能讓它和其他粒子一起旋轉	and in new directions , we have to guess what the charges the particles carry in this direction , and then we can rotate it with other particles .
如果猜對的話我們就可以在六維載荷空間中構造標準載荷集作為更完美的七維載荷空間圖案的非對稱子集	and if we guessed right , we could construct standard charges in sixdimensional charges as a nonsymmetrical set of patterns for the perfect sevendimens
這種粒子選擇方法由帕蒂和薩拉姆在1973年提出它是大統一理論的一種探索	this method of particle choice was proposed by patty and salam in 1973 , a unified theory .
在我們看到這個新的合成圖案時發現有些空間應該有粒子卻空出來了	when we look at this new synthetic pattern , we see that there are spaces that should be particles that are empty .
這是統一理論的研究方式	this is the way the unified theory works .
物理學家將已有的結構作為子集探索更大更對稱的結構	physicists will explore larger , more symmetrical structures as subsets .
這個更大的結構可以讓我們預測那些實際存在卻沒有被觀察到的粒子	this much larger configuration allows us to predict particles that are actually not observed .
這個統一模型推測出了這兩種新子對應的粒子它們應該和弱力很相似但是效果更弱	this unification model suggests that these two new particles should be similar to the weak force , but they're even weaker .
現在可以在七維空間中旋轉這個載荷集同時考慮一下關於粒子的奇怪現象:在六維載荷空間中物質的第二代和第三代擁有和第一代物質相同的載荷	now we can rotate this episode in seven dimensions , and consider the strange phenomenon of matter in sixdimensional charge space: the second and third generations of matter have the same charges as the first generation .
這些粒子透過對應的六個載荷無法一一識別	these particles can't identify by corresponding to six charges .
在標準載荷空間上他們會彼此疊加	in a standard charge space , they overlap each other .
然而在八維載荷空間中我們可以賦予每一個粒子唯一的新載荷	but in eightdimensional charge spaces , we can give each particle the only new charge .
然後在八維空間中旋轉看看整體的圖案是什麼樣的	and then rotate in eight dimensions and see what the overall pattern looks like .
這裡我們可以看到物質的第二代和第三代透過一種叫 " 三重性 " 對稱和第一代相關聯	here we can see the second and third generations of matter connected through a symmetry called " symmetry " with the first generation .
在八維中的這個特殊的載荷圖案是數學中最為漂亮的幾何結構之一	this particular charge pattern in eight dimensions is one of the most beautiful geometric structures in mathematics .
這是最大的例外型李群e8的圖案	this is the largest exceptional lie group , e8 .
李群是光滑曲線形的248維空間	lie groups are 248dimensional spaces for smooth curves .
圖案的每一點都能這個極其複雜而又美麗的圖案中找到對稱點	every point of the pattern can be found in this incredibly complicated , beautiful pattern .
e8中的一小部分可以用來描述愛因斯坦廣義相對論中用來解釋重力的扭曲時空	a small portion of the e8 can be used to describe the distortion of gravity in einstein's general theory of relativity .
這個幾何形狀和量子力學一起能夠以最小的尺度描述萬物之理	together with this geometric shape and quantum mechanics , we can describe everything at the smallest scales .
而在八維載荷空間中的這個圖案顯得異常美麗它還囊括了上千種這些基本粒子之間可能的相互作用每一種作用只是這個複雜形狀的一個平面	and this pattern in the eightdimensional charge space shows an extraordinary beauty , and it includes thousands of possible interactions between these elementary particles , each of which acts as a complex shape .
轉動它時可以看到包含其中的很多錯綜複雜的圖案	and as it rotates , you can see a lot of the intricate patterns embedded in them .
透過某種旋轉我們可以在八維空間沿一個對稱軸方向觀察這個圖案並且一次看盡所有粒子	through some kind of spin , we can look at this pattern in eight dimensions along a symmetry axis and see all the particles at once .
這是個很美的結構和其他統一理論一樣我們可以看到在這個圖案中有一些空格需要新的粒子來填補	it's a beautiful unification , just like any other theory , and we can see that there's some empty space in this pattern that needs new particles to be filled .
在這有20個空格需要新粒子來填補其中兩個已有帕蒂和薩拉姆粒子填補	in this space there are 20 new particles that need to be filled , two of which have been filled with patty and salam particles .
從圖案的位置我們知道這些新粒子和希格斯粒子一樣存在於標量場中但是它們擁有色荷且和強力相互作用	from the location of the pattern , we know that these new particles are like the higgs particles in the quantum field , but they have color charge and interact with strong forces .
填入這些新粒子使圖案完整讓我們得到完整的e8	we filled these new particles to complete the patterns , and we got the full e8 .
這個e8圖案有著深厚的數學根基	this e8 pattern contains a thick mathematical root .
在數學界中它被很多人認為是最美麗的結構	in mathematics , it's seen as the most beautiful structure that a lot of people think .
有人預言這個擁有無比數學美的結構能夠以我們可以想象到的最小尺寸描述粒子相互作用的真相	some people predict that this structure with incredibly mathematical beauty can describe the fact that particles interact at the smallest scale .
而這個數學描述自然的理論並不是剛剛出來的	and this mathematical theory of describing nature is not just coming out .
1623年伽利略寫道: " 大自然這本一直展示在我們面前的書是用數學的語言寫的	in 1623 , galileo wrote , " nature has been shown in front of us in the language of mathematics .
它由三角形圓形和其他幾何形狀組成沒有了這些東西在人力所及的範圍裡我們根本不能瞭解沒有了這些我們會迷失在黑暗的迷宮中 "	it's made up of triangles , circles and other geometric shapes , and we can't understand these things in the human range , and we can't understand them , and we'll miss them in the dark labyrinth . "
我相信這是真的我曾試過按照伽利略的指導只用三角形圓形和其他的幾何形狀去描述量子物理的數學性	i believe this is true . i tried to follow galileo's guidance using only triangle circles and other geometric shapes to describe the mathematics of quantum physics .
當我和其他物理學家在研究這些東西時數學就像一個黑暗的迷宮	and while other physicists and i were studying these things , mathematics was like a dark labyrinth .
但是我們確信數學的核心是純粹美麗的幾何學	but we do believe that at the heart of mathematics is purely beautiful geometry .
數學和量子力學一起把我們的宇宙描述為一個在成長的e8珊瑚同時粒子在每個可能的位置相互作用展現出美麗的圖案	together , mathematics and quantum mechanics describe our universe as a growing e8 coral , and particles interact in each position to show beautiful patterns .
藉助大型強子對撞機之類的新型機器圖案得到進一步豐富我們可能看到到底e8圖案還是另一種圖案反映了自然的本質	with new machine patterns like the large hadron collider , we get further rich , and we might see e8 patterns or other patterns reflect the nature of nature .
這個探索過程是一個奇妙的探險	this process of exploration is a wonderful adventure .
如果對撞機發現了符合e8圖案的粒子那可太酷了	if the lhc finds particles that fit e8 patterns , that's pretty cool .
如果對撞機發現了新粒子但不符合這個圖案那會非常有趣雖然對e8理論不利	if the lhc finds new particles , but they don't fit into this pattern , that's very interesting , although theory is bad for e8 .
而且在一定程度上對我不利	and in a way , it was bad for me .
那到底有多不利呢 ?	how bad is that ?
恩那是十分的不利啊	well , that's very bad .
但推測大自然的運作總是很冒險的	but it's an adventurous thing to do .
這個理論和其他這型別的理論都是在下大注	this theory , along with other theories , is massively focused .
即使花很多精力取得很多成果也不一定能得出自然的真理	even with a lot of effort , it doesn't necessarily come out of nature .
理論物理就是這樣失敗是很常見的	that's how theoretical physics failed .
這樣看來新物理理論就像新開的公司	in this way , new physics theories are like startups .
巨大投資後對那些失敗的嘗試情感上總會難以割捨	after enormous investments , emotionally difficult to get rid of those failures .
但在科學界如果沒有用就要丟掉它再試試別的	but in science , if it doesn't work , throw it away and try something else .
而在這些不確定中唯一能夠保持理智並獲得幸福的方法是在生活中保持平衡和明察事理	and in these uncertainties , the only way to be rational and acquire happiness is to remain balanced and inspected in life .
我已經儘可能保持生活的平衡了	i've remained as balanced as possible .
我試著在物理愛情和衝浪中尋找平衡就是我三個載荷的方向	i tried to balance my own three charges in physical love and surfing directions .
這樣就算我的物理研究沒有任何成果我依然擁有美好的生活	so even if my physics didn't work , i still had a good life .
我試著在風景優美的地方居住	i'm trying to live in beautiful places .
過去十年我大部分時間都住在毛伊島一個超級漂亮的地方	i've spent the last 10 years living on the island of maui , a beautiful place .
現在我父母最大的謎團是我是怎樣在沒有一個全職工作的情況下活下來的	now , my parents' biggest mystery is how i survived without a fulltime job .
我要告訴你們這個秘密	i'm going to tell you this secret .
這是我在毛伊島上的家庭辦公室的照片	this is a picture of my family's office on maui .
你們可能注意到這些照片似曾相似但背景稍有不同	you may notice that these images were similar , but backgrounds were slightly different .
因為這曾經是我在毛伊島的家和辦公室	because this was my home and office in maui .
我選擇了一種不同尋常的生活	i chose a different kind of life .
不擔心房租讓我把時間花在喜歡做的事情上	not worrying about rent let me spend my time doing what i like to do .
流浪的生活方式有時會很艱難也正因此我才能可生活在美麗的地方維持我所喜歡的平衡的生活	living a nomadic lifestyle can sometimes be hard , and because of that , i was able to live in beautiful places to keep my life balanced .
我可以花大量的時間在超級聰明的珊瑚上	i could spend a lot of time on superintelligent corals .
同時我也很樂意和超級聰明的人打交道	and at the same time , i would love to talk to hyperintelligent people .
很高興能被邀請到這兒演講	it's great to be invited here .
我想我只懂了百分之二的部分 , 但是我絕對喜歡它 。 所以我想獻一下醜 。	i think i only know two percent , but i absolutely like it . so i want to give it a little ugly .
你的萬物理論...我喜歡稱之為珊瑚理論	your theory of everything i like to call it coral .
好吧 , 它讓人們興奮的原因是如果你是對的 , 那就把重力和量子理論結合了起來 。	well , the reason it gets people excited is if you're right , it combines gravity and quantum theory .
所以你是不是說我們應該瞭解在宇宙中那些最微小的事物有可能就是e8模型 ?	so are you saying that we should understand that the tiniest thing in the universe might be e8 ?
我是說 , 你心裡是不是有一個最小的尺寸 , 還是.... ?	i mean , do you have a minimum size in your mind or . . .
嗯 , 剛剛給你們看得圖案就是我們所知的基本粒子物理 , 而且它已經是一個很漂亮的圖案了 。	well , the pattern i showed you earlier is what we know about the elementary particle physics , and it's already a beautiful pattern .
那個就是我所說的我們很確信的地方 。	and that's what i'm talking about . we're pretty sure .
而這個形狀和e8有著明顯的相似處 , 在剩下的圖片中幾乎和e8合為一體 。	and this shape has a remarkable similarity to e8 , and the rest of the picture is almost associated with the e8 .
我給你們看得這些點狀圖案實際上代表著高維物體的對稱性 , 這些圖案在我們生活的時空中 , 蜷曲 , 移動和舞蹈 。	i'm showing you these spot patterns that actually represent the symmetries of highdimensional objects that curl up and move and dance in spacetimes in which we live .
這就解釋了所有的我們所看見的基本粒子 。	and this explains all the elementary particles that we see .
克里斯:但是就我的理解 , 弦理論家會在更小的弦震動裡解釋電子--我知道你不喜歡弦理論 。	ca: but in my understanding , string theorists explain electrons in smaller string vibrations i know you don't like string theory .
但我們該怎樣理解在e8模型中的電子 ?	but how do we understand electrons in e8 ?
加勒特:不 , 它將會是這個e8型狀對稱性的一部分 。	gk: no , it's going to be part of this e8shaped symmetry .
所以實際上 , 當這個形狀在時空中游走 , 它會扭曲 。 而它扭曲的方向就是我們所看到的粒子 。 所以就是--e8形狀的大小 , 是怎麼樣和電子相聯絡的呢 ?	so actually , when this shape is swimming through spacetime , it's distorting , and it's distorting directions that are the particles that we see , so it's the size of the e8 shape , how is it contacting the electrons ?
我自己有些想象不出來 。	i can't think of myself .
它會大些還是小些 ?	is it bigger or smaller ?
嗯 , 就我們所知電子是點粒子 , 所以這個會讓我們看到最小的尺寸 。	well , the electrons , as we know them , are point particles , so this one shows us the smallest scale .
所以在量子場論中 , 這些東西的解釋方式是所有的可能性都在同時展開發展 。	so in the quantum field theory , the explanation of these things is that all possibilities are unfolding at the same time .
這也是我為什麼拿珊瑚作類比 。	that's why i'm analogizing corals .
因為這樣 , e8的進入方式是一個可以連線時空中每一點的形狀 。	because of that , the way e8 comes in is it's a shape that connects every bit of spacetime .
還有 , 想我所說的 , 形狀在經過這個曲線的表面時它的扭曲的方式和其的扭曲方向是基本粒子它們自己 。	and , as i said , the shape twists the way that it twists on the surface of this curve and the way the elementary particles twist themselves .
所以根據量子場論 , 它們自己把放大到和點一樣 , 然後相互作用 。	so according to quantum field theory , they zoom in on themselves and interact with each other .
我不知道我能不能解釋得更加清楚了 。	i don't know if i can explain that better .
克里斯:沒關係 。	ca: that's ok .
它已經激起了我們的興趣 。 我確定我想了解的更多 。	it has sparked our interest . i'm sure i want to understand more .
太感謝你的光臨了 。 你的演說太吸引人了 。	thank you so much for coming . your talk is so fascinating .
研究黑猩猩的傳奇人物珍•古道爾講述有關tacare計劃以及她別的社群計劃 , 藉助這些計劃 , 在日益繁榮的非洲城鎮 , 人與瀕危動物可以和睦相處 。	studying the chimpanzee legend jane goodall talking about tacare and her other social program , with these programs , with increasingly thriving african towns , humans and endangered animals can relate to each other .
africa , animals , biodiversity , environment , globalissues , pollution , primates , science	that's the thing , that's bioversity , that's the global issues , that's pollution , that's the thing that's there .
珍•古道爾幫助人與動物共存共處	jane goodall helps people coexist with animals .
下午好 , 晚上好	good afternoon , good evening .
或者我們也可以說 , jambo , gutenabend , bonsoir , 又或者......	or we can say , gunbo , gumbo , tenabend , bonsoir , or . . .
黑猩猩在晚上睡覺前就是這麼打招呼的	that's how the chimpanzees greet up until they sleep at night .
你聽見這種叫聲從山谷這頭傳到那頭從一群猩猩窩傳到另一群猩猩窩	you're hearing this call from the valley , and it goes from one group of chimpanzees to another group of chimpanzees .
我今晚的演講想從澤雷•阿蘭希格昨天留下的話題開始	i want to start this evening with jersey alanshig yesterday .
他談的是這個令人驚異的靈長類幼仔 , 叫selam , 三歲大	he was talking about this incredible primate , selam , threeyearold primate .
我們還聽了透過測繪dna基因所得的人類的歷史和族譜	we've also heard the history and family trees of the human dna gene by mapping the dna gene .
已故古生物學家路易斯•李奇是他把我引上研究黑猩猩之路的	the late paleontologist louis leakey was the way he introduced me to chimpanzees .
回顧過去 , 這條路實在不同尋常	it's a very unusual path to look back in the past .
現在看來比較普通可他的論據是 , 因為他曾尋找在非洲的早期人類化石遺蹟	now it looks more general , but his argument is that he looked for the early human fossil miracles in africa .
這些化石上 , 從附屬肌肉的形狀上 , 對於那些早期人類的模樣像什麼都能給研究者很多啟示從由他們身邊發現的原始工具上可以看出一些關於他們生活方式的端倪	these fossils , from the shape of the possessional muscle , can give researchers a lot of revelations , and from the primitive tools that they've discovered around them , you can tell a little bit about their lifestyle .
但他們的行為表現是什麼樣的 ? 這是他想知道的	but what does their behavior look like ? this is what he wanted to know .
當然 , 行為沒有在化石裡體現	of course , behavior doesn't embody the fossils .
他辨稱如果我們發現當代人類在行為模式上與和其最相近的物種巨猿相似或者相同那麼或許這些行為在大概七百萬年前在似猿似人的祖先身上存在過	he recognized that if we discovered modern humans , like their most australopithecines , or australopithecines , then maybe these behaviors existed in an apelike ancestor about seven million years ago .
因此 , 也許我們身上的那些行為特徵是從遠古時代傳下來的	so , maybe the behavioral features that we have in our bodies have come from ancient times .
噢 , 如果你看一下現在講人類進化的書就會常常發現 , 人們是基於黑猩猩的行為表現來思考早期人類可能的行為方式	oh , if you look at the book of human evolution now , it turns out that people are based on the behavior of chimpanzees to think about how early humans might behave .
與別的存活動物相比 , 他們更像我們這一點我在這次ted會議中聽到過	they were more like us than any other activist , which i've heard at this ted conference .
所以我今天要講的就是黑猩猩是在其行為方式的與人類的相似點	so what i'm going to talk about today is that chimpanzees behave like humans in their behavior .
每個黑猩猩都有他/她自己的個性	every chimpanzee has himself or her personality .
當然 , 我給他們起名字 。 他們能活60歲或者更長儘管我們覺得他們中的絕大多數在野生環境活不到60歲	of course , i give them names . they live 60 years , or they live longer , although we think the vast majority of them live under 60 .
這是wurzel猩猩 。 母猩猩在11或12歲時生第一個孩子	this is the wurzel chimpanzee .
之後每五年或每六年她只生一仔這麼長的童年期內小猩猩很有依賴性 , 需要照料晚上和媽媽一起睡 , 騎在她背上	and then every five years or six years , she gives birth to a very long childhood , and the chimpanzees are dependent on her back , taking care of the night with her mom , riding on her back .
我們認為這麼長的童年期對黑猩猩很重要 , 這牽涉到學習 , 就像童年之於我們一樣	we think this longterm childhood is so important to chimpanzees , and it involves learning , like our childhood .
在各種不同形態動物的進化過程中由於大腦變得日益複雜我們發現 , 在一種個體的生命歷程中學習的作用日益重要	in the process of evolution in various forms of animals , because the brain is becoming increasingly complex , we've found that learning is increasingly important in an individual's lifespan .
年紀小的黑猩猩花很長時間觀察它們的長輩做什麼	young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do .
我們現在知道 , 他們能模仿所見的行為表現	we now know that they can mimic how they behave .
我們認為正是由此從那些在非洲研究的所有不同黑猩猩種群身上看到的使用工具的不同行為這些行為是怎樣透過觀察、模仿和實踐從一代傳到另一代的所以 , 我們可以把這些使用工具的行為說成是原始文化	and we think it's the way that we think of all the different toolusing behaviors that we've seen in africa , from different chimpanzee populations , through observations , imitation and practices , from one generation to another , so we can think of these toolusing behaviors as primordial cultures .
黑猩猩沒有語言 , 我們以前提到過	chimpanzees don't have language . we talked about it before .
但他們確實有一整套非常豐富的姿態和動作其中許多與我們的很像 , 甚至一模一樣並且具有相同涵義黑猩猩打招呼時會擁抱	but they do have a very rich set of gestures and motions , many of which are very similar to ours , even identical , and embrace when it comes to chimpanzees who are hello .
他們也親吻、牽手、一個拍另一個的背	they also kiss , hold hands , pat one on the other .
他們也虛張聲勢地恐嚇 , 或者仍石頭	they're also terrifying , and they're still rocky .
在黑猩猩的社會里 , 我們發現很多很多憐憫、示愛以及真正利他的例子	in chimpanzee societies , we found a lot of compassion , love and real examples .
和我們一樣 , 不幸的是 , 他們也有天性中陰暗的一面	unfortunately , like us , they have the dark sides of their nature .
他們可以極度兇殘 , 甚至像一種原始戰爭	they can be incredibly brutal , even like a primordial war .
多數情況下 , 這些極具攻擊性的行為是直接針對相鄰社群中個體的	in most cases , these extremely aggressive behaviors are directly targeted to individuals in adjacent communities .
這些攻擊大多是為了爭奪地盤	most of these attacks are for geography .
我覺得 , 與別的生物相比黑猩猩更有助於我們認識到 , 人類和動物王國裡的其他成員終歸併無明顯界限	i think it's even helpful to realize that humans and other members in the kingdom of animals end up remaining inexplicable .
這種界限非常模糊 , 並且隨著我們更多的觀察會一直更加模糊下去	it's a very fuzzy boundary , and as we get more observations , we keep getting more fuzzy .
我1960年開始的研究一直持續到現在	my research started in 1960 , and it's been going on .
這些黑猩猩在野生環境過著複雜的社會生活最重要的是 , 他們幫助我們認識到 , 我們與形形色色的動物在地球上共處 , 我們是其中一部分不能與這些動物分割開來	the chimpanzees have a complicated social life in the wildlife environment , and most importantly , they help us realize that we live with animals that live with us on this planet , and we're partly unable to separate ourselves from these animals .
所以 , 發現黑猩猩和世界上其他眾多生物一樣失去聚居地 , 是很讓人難過的	so it's sad to find that chimpanzees , like so many other creatures in the world , are losing habitats .
這只是一張從空中拍的照片你可以看到森林覆蓋的gombe高地	this is just a photograph from the air , and you can see the gombe highlands covered in the forest .
16年前 , 我走遍整個地區意識到在公園之外 , 這片森林在1960年時沿著tanganyika湖東岸綿延不絕小巧的、面積只有30平方英里的gombe國家公園就坐落在這裡那時一個問題進入我腦海	16 years ago , i traveled all over the region , and i realized that outside the park , this forest stretched along the east coast of lake tanganyika , along the east coast of lake tanganyika , with only 30 square miles of gombe national park .
" 我們怎麼能進而去試圖拯救這些出了名的黑猩猩 , 而住在國家公園周圍的人卻在為生存而掙扎 ? "	" how can we get there trying to save these famous chimpanzees , and people who live around the national park are struggling to survive ? "
那裡人口眾多 , 非單薄的土地所能承受	there's a lot of people , not just thin land .
隨著來自蒲隆地的難民湧入來自剛果的人跨湖過來 , 住在那裡的人數增加著	as refugees from burundi flooded in from congo crossing lakes , the number of people living there was increasing .
那些人非常窮無力從別的地方買吃的	those people are very , very poor to buy from other places .
一個計劃由此產生 , 我們稱之為 " 關愛 "	and that's when a project arose , which we call love .
它用整體化的方式來改善住在湖周圍村子裡的人的生活	it's a generalized approach to improving the lives of people living in the villages around the lake .
剛開始是小規模的 , 有12個村子 。 現在是24個	at first it's small , it's 12 villages .
這裡沒有時間去深入介紹 , 不過該計劃包括象林木苗圃等事情 , 以及適於在山上這片目前嚴重剝蝕幾近沙漠的土地上耕種的方法	there's no time to go into this , but this project includes raised beds in elephant shins , and it's appropriate to this mountain that's currently pretty eroding landscape approaching deserts .
控制、防止土地侵蝕的方法	control , prevent land from erosion .
收回過度使用的農田的方法以便兩年內這些農田可以重新有收成	overused farming can be recycled in just two years , and these farms can be recycled .
幫助村民從井裡取得淡水	help villagers get fresh water from the well .
或許建一些校舍	maybe you build some schoolrooms .
我認為最重要的是與小規模群體婦女合作給她們提供微型信用貸款的機會	i think most importantly , working with smallscale groups of women and giving them opportunities for microcredit loans .
全世界的情況一樣 , 在所有貸款中我們收回了大約95%	all over the world , we recycled about 95 percent of all loans .
使婦女能夠受教育後工作給女孩子提供獎學金 , 以便讓她們完成中學學業很清楚 , 世界各地婦女的教育程度提高了 , 家庭人口數目就會下降	it allows women to be educated to give scholarships to girls , so they can finish high school , and it's clear that women are educated everywhere in the world , and families are going down .
我們提供計劃生育和艾滋病及其病毒方面的資訊	we provide information on reproductive and hiv and their viruses .
這項計劃實施之後自然保護方面發生了一些事情	and then something happened on natural protection .
自然保護方面發生的事情是 , 住在這24個村子裡的農民並沒有把我們看成是跑來研究整個一夥兒猴子的一夥兒白人順便說一下 , 現在很多工作人員是坦尚尼亞人而當我們開始 " 關愛 " 計劃時進入村子的是一個坦尚尼亞小組	what's happening to natural protection is that the farmers who live in these 24 villages did not look at us as one bunch of monkeys who studied the whole bunch of monkeys , by the way , a lot of them now are tanzanians , and when we started the village with love , it was a tanzanian team .
和村民交談的是一個坦尚尼亞小組詢問村民對什麼感興趣	i talked to the villagers as a tanzanian group and asked the villagers what interests them .
他們對自然保護感興趣嗎 ? 一點也不	are they interested in nature conservation ?
他們對健康感興趣 , 他們對教育感興趣	they're interested in health . they're interested in education .
隨著時間推移 , 隨著他們境況開始改善他們開始不斷理解更多有關自然保護的必要性	over time , as their circumstances began to improve , they began to understand more about the need for natural protection .
他們開始理解當山上較高位置的數被砍光以後可怕的土地侵蝕和泥流就來了	they began to understand that when the higher numbers on the mountain were cut off , the horrible land eroded and mud streams came .
現在 , 我們正在開發所說的大gombe生態系統	now , we're developing what we call the biggmbe ecosystem .
這是一片國家公園以外的地區綿延包括了所有這些各種各樣剝蝕了的土地	this is an area outside the national park that's extended , including all these different lands that have eroded .
由於這些村子生活標準高一些他們實際上同意把他們土地的10-20%放到高地一側以便當樹長回來時黑猩猩會再次擁有綠色走廊它們可以藉此穿行以便這是他們基因繁殖所必需的與國家公園外其它殘餘群體互動	and because these villages have a higher standard of living , they actually agree to put 10 to 20 percent of their land on the high ground so that when the trees come back , the chimpanzees will have green corridors , and they'll be able to wear them so that this is the kind of necessary necesary for their gene breeding to interact with the rest of the community outside of the national park .
所以 " 關愛 " 計劃成功了	so caring worked .
我們在非洲其它地區複製這項計劃在其它面臨極端人口壓力的荒野之地	we replicated this program in other parts of africa in other parts of the wilderness of extreme population pressure .
但是 , 就像我們在ted開始的所有這幾天一直討論的非洲的問題是主要問題	but , like all of the problems that we've been talking about here at ted over the last few days , it's a major problem .
那裡非常貧窮	it's very poor .
有大量的人生活在不那麼肥沃的土地上尤其當你把樹砍倒使得土壤裸露 , 任風侵蝕同時處於絕望的人砍倒越來越多的樹以便為他們自己和家人努力培育糧食這樣會發生什麼 ? 有些東西會開始犧牲讓步	there's a lot of people living on less fertile land , especially when you cut down the trees and erosion the soil , and wind erosion , and those who are in despair are increasingly cutting down more and more trees for themselves and their families , and what's going to happen is , some things will start to sacrifice them .
還有別的問題不僅在非洲而且是其它所有發展中世界 , 甚至是地球上所有地方我們在對我們的地球做什麼呢 ?	and other questions not only in africa , but all the developing world , or anywhere else on earth , what are we doing to our planet ?
著名科學家 , e.o.威爾遜說過 , 如果地球上每個人的生活標準都達到歐美平均水平我們就再需要三個地球	e . o . wilson , the famous scientist , said that if everybody on this planet had a standard of living , the average american standard , we would need three more .
今天他們說是四個 。 可我們沒那些個 , 我們只有一個	today they say four . but we don't have those . we only have one .
發生了什麼 ? 我是說 , 這裡的問題是 , 我們在這裡或許可稱為地球上有史以來最有智慧的生命有著非凡的大腦能夠運用這些ted會議上闡述備至的這些技術但我們卻在毀壞著這個惟一的家園	what's going on here ? i mean , the question is , we might call it the most intelligent life on earth , and it's extraordinary to be able to apply these ted conferences to these extraordinary techniques , but we're destroying this one .
全球各地的原住民在做重要決定前都會坐到一起 , 然後問 " 這決定如何影響我們接下來的七代人 ? "	indigenous peoples around the world would sit together before important decisions , and ask , " how does this decision affect the next seven generations ? "
今天 , 重要決定我這裡不特別談非洲而是發達世界牽涉幾百萬美元以及以及幾百萬人的重要決定卻只是問 " 這會如何影響下次股東大會 ? "	today , important decisions i'm not here to talk about africa , but about the industrial world , about millions of dollars and millions of people's most important decisions , are just saying , " how does this affect the next shareholder meeting ? "
這些決定卻影響非洲	these decisions affect africa .
當我開始遊歷非洲談論黑猩猩面臨的問題及其日益消逝的森林我愈來愈意識到如此之多的非洲問題是如何與以前的殖民開發有關的	and as i started traveling around africa talking about the problems that chimpanzees face and the forest that they were fading , i became more and more aware of how africa was related to its former colonial development .
因此我開始在非洲之外旅行 , 在歐洲演講在美國演講 , 去亞洲	so i started traveling outside africa , talking in europe , talking in the united states , going to asia .
每一地都有這些糟糕的問題	everywhere there's these terrible problems .
你知道我說的是什麼問題 , 這包括汙染問題	you know what i'm talking about , including pollution .
我們呼吸的空氣經常毒害我們	the air that we breathe constantly poison us .
泥土毒害我們的食物	mud poisoning our food .
水水也許是本世紀我們要面對的最要緊問題之一每一地 , 水都被農業、工業、家用化學制品所汙染全世界都還在噴這些製品似乎沒辦法從過去的經驗獲利	water may be one of the most important problems we faced this century , and everywhere , water is being polluted by agriculture , industries , homeschool chemicals , and the world is still spraying , and these products seem to be unable to profit from the past .
紅樹被砍倒海嘯等影響日益加重	redwoods are being cut down , tsunami , and so on .
我們談過土壤侵蝕	we talked about soil erosion .
我們不計後果地燒過化石燃料連同其它所謂溫室氣體導致了氣候變化	we have burned fossil fuels regularly , along with other things called greenhouse gases , causing climate change .
終於 , 全世界的人都開始相信有什麼事發生了 , 我們的氣候不對勁兒了	and finally , all over the world , people are believing in what's going on , and something's wrong with our climate .
全球氣候互相牽連	global climate is interconnected .
最受不利影響的是窮人	the worst impact on the poor is the poor .
已經受影響的是非洲	africa has been affected .
在次撒哈拉非洲的許多地區 , 乾旱非常嚴重	in many parts of subsaharan africa , droughts are very , very serious .
雨終於下起來時 , 又常常導致洪水及更多的不幸 , 貧窮、飢餓和疾病週而復始	when the rain finally rises , it often leads to floods and more , and unfortunately , poverty , hunger and disease all over again .
還有很多人住在土地供養不起的地區太窮 , 買不起食物因為全部土地都剝蝕了 , 所以也沒法離開	and there's a lot of people living in land that's incredible to feed , that can't afford to buy food , because all the land is eroded , so there's no way to go .
於是有了沙漠化一點點漫延 , 漫延 , 漫延同時最後的樹也被砍倒	so with desertification , a little bit of desertification , a little bit of delay , and a little bit of delay , and at the same time , the last tree
這種事情不光在非洲遍佈全球	this is not just happening all over the world .
所以我不覺得奇怪當我在世界各地旅行時碰到那麼多年輕人 , 他們看上去失去了希望	so i don't think it's surprising that when i travel around the world , there are so many young people who seem to have lost hope .
我們似乎已經失去了智慧 , 那種屬於原住民的智慧	we seem to have lost wisdom , the wisdom of indigenous peoples .
我想問 , 這是為什麼 ?	and i wanted to ask , why is this ?
你們覺得在這異常聰明的大腦ted技術作為例證的那種大腦和人的心臟之間會有某種隔絕嗎 ? 用非科學的術語來談談根據愛和同情 。 有隔絕嗎 ?	do you think there's an isolation between the brain and the human heart , that's not scientifically based on love and compassion ?
這些年輕人 , 當我和他們講話時基本上他們要麼情緒低落 , 要麼無動於衷或者痛苦、憤怒他們或多或少說的是同一件事情 " 我們這麼感覺是因為我們覺得你們損害了我們的未來 , 並且我們對此無能為力 。 "	these young people , when i'm talking to them , are basically emotionally low , either imprecise or painful or angry they're talking more or less about the same thing , " we feel like it's because we feel like we've damaged our future and we can't do anything about it . "
我們確實已經毀壞了他們的未來	we've certainly destroyed their future .
我有三個小孫子 , 每次看著他們我就想 , 從我像他們那麼大以來 , 我們是如何損害這個美麗的地球的我感覺到這種絕望	i have three little grandchildren , and every time i look at them , i think , how we've damaged this beautiful earth , and i feel that sense of despair .
我們由此開展這項我們稱之為 " 根與芽 " 的計劃恰好始於這裡 , 坦尚尼亞現在已經傳播到世界上97個國家	and so we started this project called roots and shoots , which is where tanzania has now spread to 97 countries around the world .
專案的名字是具有象徵意義的根造就堅實的基礎	the name of the project is the symbolic root of the meaning .
芽看上去細小 , 在陽光照耀下卻可穿破磚牆	shoots look tiny , and under sunlight , they can break through brick walls .
磚可以看成是我們給地球造成的環境的和社會的問題這是希望的訊息	bricks are viewed as the environmental and social issues we have created on earth , and that's a message of hope .
世界各地成千上萬的年輕人可以取得突破 , 為了所有生物 , 讓這個世界更美好	hundreds of thousands of young people around the world have been able to get a breakthrough , for all living things , to make the world a better place .
" 根與芽 " 的最重要訊息每一天 , 我們每一個人都在改變世界	the most important message of roots and shoots , each and every day , each of us is changing the world .
我們有一個選擇這屋子裡我們每一個人我們都有一個選擇 , 關於我們想做些什麼來改變世界	we have an option for each and every one of us in this room , and we all have a choice about what we want to do to change the world .
很窮的人沒有選擇我們要改變這些事以便窮人也有選擇	very poor people have no option . we have to change those things so that poor people have choices .
" 根與芽 " 小組都選三個方案	the roots and shoots groups choose three programs .
取決於成員年齡 , 所在國家在城市還是鄉下 , 來選不同的方案	it depends on member age , in the country , in the cities , in the country , in the country , in the rural area , to choose a different solution .
基本上 , 我們現在的計劃從學前一直到大學愈來愈多的成人開始建立他們自己的 " 根與芽 " 小組	basically , we're planning right now from school to college , more adults are starting to build their own roots and shoots groups .
每個小組在彼此之間選擇三種不同的方案 , 來創造更加美好的世界承認所有這些不同問題是互相聯絡彼此影響的	each group chooses three different programs to create a better world acknowledging that all these different problems are interconnected to each other .
因此他們的方案之一將會幫助他們自己的人類社群	so one of their programs is going to help them have their own human community .
然後 , 如果他們能幹 , 他們可以籌集資金幫助世界上其它地區的社群	and if they can do that , they can raise funds to help communities in other parts of the world .
他們的方案之一將會幫助動物不光是野生動物也包括家養動物	one of their programs is going to help the animals , not just the wildlife , including the families .
他們的方案之一將會幫助我們共處的環境	one of their programs is going to help us live together .
交織在所有這些方案中的訊息是學著與我們自己、家庭、社群和諧相處 , 包括國家之間 , 不同文化之間不同宗教信仰之間 , 以及我們和自然世界之間	the message in all these programs is to learn to harmonize ourselves , families , communities , between states , between cultures , between religious beliefs and between us and the natural world .
我們需要自然世界我們不能繼續象現在這樣破壞世界了	we need the natural world , and we cannot continue to destroy it now .
我們只有一個地球	we only have one planet .
就在非洲這裡 , 僅僅選出一個或兩個 " 根與芽 " 小組正在實施的方案只要一個或兩個方案在坦尚尼亞、烏干達、肯亞、南非、剛果、布拉扎維、獅子山、喀麥隆以及別的團體 。 就象我說的 , 遍佈世界97個國家	just here in africa , just one or two roots and shoots groups are implementing in one or two programs in tanzania , uganda , kenya , south africa , congo , congo , sierra leone , cameroon and other groups .
當然 , 他們種樹 , 他們種有機蔬菜	of course , they plant trees . they grow organic vegetables .
他們在難民營養小雞賣雞蛋得些微薄收入或只是把雞蛋給家人吃並覺得自豪和獲得權力因為他們自己種植蔬菜養殖小雞就不再無助 , 不再依賴他人	they sell eggs tiny in refugee camps , or just feed eggs to their families and feel proud and empowered because they grow their own chickens no longer depend on others .
這個方案在烏干達實施了給予前童軍一些心理上的幫助	this program implemented some psychological help in uganda .
實施這些方案讓他們重塑自我	implementing these programs reinvents themselves .
再一次 , 他們成為社會上的有用一員	once again , they become useful in society .
我們也在監獄實施該計劃	we also implemented it in prisons .
所以現在沒時間實施更多的 " 根與芽 " 計劃	so there's no time for more roots and shoots .
哦 , 他們也致力於艾滋病及其病毒方面的工作	oh , they're also working on aids and their viruses .
那是 " 根與芽 " 計劃非常重要的組成部分由大孩子跟小孩子談話	it's a very important component of roots and shoots , and it's partly adults talking to kids .
還有無意懷孕及類似事情年輕人更願意聽別的孩子的 , 而不是成人的	there's unintended pregnancy and things like young people who are more willing to listen to other children than adults .
希望 。 我周遊世界被問及的就是這個問題 " 珍 , 你見過這麼多可怕的事情 , 你看著你的黑猩猩數量在減少 , 從世紀之交的大約一百萬到現在的不足15萬 。 那麼多其它動物也一樣	hope . the question that i've been asked around the world is this: " jane , you've seen so many terrible things , you're looking at the decline in your chimpanzee population from about a million to 150 , 000 animals .
森林消失 , 過去是森林的地方變成沙漠	the forest disappears , where it used to be a desert .
你真的有希望 ? " 嗯 , 有 。	do you really have hope ? " " well , yes .
你不可能來參加象ted這樣的會議 , 卻不報希望 , 對吧 ?	you can't come to a ted conference like this , but you don't wish , right ?
當然 , 有希望 。 希望之一是這令人稱奇的人腦	of course , there is hope . one of the hopes is this amazing human brain .
我是說 , 想一想技術	i mean , think about technology .
我最後還是很激動 , 碰到人們談論堆肥廁所	i ended up getting excited when people talk about composting toilets .
這是我愛討論的話題之一	this is one of my favorite topics .
我們就把所有這些水衝下馬桶 , 這很可怕	and we just sprinted all this water down the toilet . it was horrible .
然後談論了可再生能源 , 非常重要	and then talk about renewable energy , very important .
我們為孩子關心過地球嗎 ?	have we cared about the planet for our children ?
我們多少人有孩子或者孫子、侄子、外甥 ?	how many of us have children or grandchildren , nieces , nephews ?
我們關心他們的未來嗎 ?	do we care about their future ?
如果關心他們的未來 , 作為全球精英我們可以做些事情 。 我們可以做決定 , 每天怎樣生活	if we care about their future , as global elites , we can do things .
買什麼 , 穿什麼	what do you buy , what do you wear ?
決定帶著問題做這些選擇這會怎樣影響我周圍的環境 ?	what decides to make these choices will affect the environment around me ?
我的孩子長大後 , 這會怎樣影響他或她那時的生活 ?	how does this affect his life or her when my child grows up ?
或者我的孫子 , 或別的什麼 。	or my grandchildren , or something else .
那麼人腦 , 與人心結合我們全球同心協力	so the human brain , the human brain , combines with us all around the world .
那是ted所竭力幫助的 , 是google幫了我們esri幫我們繪製了gombe國家公園的地圖	that's what ted does , and it helps us esri helps us map the gombe national park .
所有這些我們會用的技術	all of these technologies we're going to use .
現在讓我們把它們連起來 , 它即將發生 , 對吧 ?	now let's connect them together , and it's about to happen , right ?
今天下午你們聽過了 。 它即將發生	you heard that this afternoon . it's about to happen .
這變化 , 這變化 ; 看到我們一定會有的變化 , 如果我們關心未來的話	that change , that change , that sees the change that we must have if we care about the future .
報有希望的下一個理由大自然的復員能力令人稱奇	the next reason for hopefulness , the surprising skills of nature , are amazing .
你可以找一塊被全毀了的地區假以時間 , 可能還有一些幫助 , 這地區會重新煥發生機	you can take a region that's completely destroyed , and in time , maybe some help , the region will be radiant .
一個例子是 " 關愛 " 計劃	one example is the love project .
我告訴你 , 在一塊看上去死了的樹樁如果你停止為了燒柴而進行的砍伐你不需要砍伐因為你有小林地那麼五年後你會有30英尺的樹	i'm telling you , in a seemingly dead tree , if you stop the deforestation that you're doing to burn a match , you don't need to cut down because you have a small forest , and in five years you'll have 30 feet of tree .
任何動物 , 幾乎瀕於滅絕的 , 會得到第二次機會 。 那是我下一本書	any animal , almost endangered , gets a second chance . that's my next book .
它鼓舞人心 。 它帶我到我最後一類希望過去兩天我們聽了那麼多關於這個的即不屈的人類精神 。 人的這種決心 , 人類精神的適應力 。 因此 , 你覺得會被貧窮、疾病、或別的什麼打垮的那些人 , 可以讓自己走出困境有時藉助於援手 , 他們可以參與到社會中參與到變化的世界中	it inspires me . it takes me to my last category of hope that we've heard so much about this inconvenient human spirit . this determination , this resilience of the human spirit , the resilience of the human spirit , and therefore , you feel like the people who are going to be falling out of poverty or disease or something else can get themselves out of the dilemma , and sometimes by helping , they can participate in the world of social change .
只要想想真正鼓舞人心的一個或兩個人走出非洲	just think about one or two people who are really inspiring to get out of africa .
我們可以列一個很長的單子可很顯然 , 納爾遜曼德拉走出17年的重體力勞動 , 23年的監禁帶著這種令人稱奇的能力去寬恕 , 以便他能領導他的國家走出種族隔離的邪惡體制而不用大屠殺	we can make a long list , but nelson mandela , obviously , came out of 17 years of gravitational labor , 23 years of incarceration , with this amazing capacity to forgive , to lead his country out of the evil system of apartheid , without massacre .
kensaro-wiwa , 在奈及利亞 , 與石油巨頭對抗儘管世界各地的人竭盡全力 , 他還是被處決了	kensa rowiwa , in nigeria , fighting against the oil giant , despite the fact that people all over the world , he was executed .
像這樣的人是多麼激動人心	it's exciting to see people like this .
這樣的人是我們所需要的對非洲年輕人的榜樣	these are the role models we need for young africans .
我們也需要一些環境方面的榜樣今天我聽了一些關於他們的事情	we also need some environmental role models , and i've heard a little bit about them today .
所以我由衷感謝有這次機會來再次分享這些訊息和ted的每一個人	so thank you very much for the opportunity to share that message and everyone at ted .
我希望我們中的一部分人能聚在一起討論一下這些事情尤其是 " 根與芽 " 計劃	i want some of us to come together and talk about some of these things , especially roots and shoots .
關於這一點再說最後一句那個管整個會議中心的年輕姑娘我今天碰到她了	and the last sentence of that , the young woman at the conference center , i met her today .
她很興奮地走上前來 , 拿著她的證書 。 她參與了 " 根與芽 "	she was excited to come up with her certificate . she was involved in roots and shoots .
她在達累斯薩拉姆的領導層裡	she's in the leadership layer of darris salaam .
她說它使她得以做現在的工作	she said it made her do what she's doing now .
見到她我真是非常非常興奮見到的這個還僅僅是一個例子:當年輕人被賦予權力 , 給予機會去採取行動去讓世界變得更加美好的時候他們實實在在的是我們明天的希望	and i was really , really , really excited to see her , and just one example: when young people are empowered and given the opportunity to take action to make the world a better place , they really are our hope tomorrow .
藝術家戴安娜•科恩分享關於塑膠汙染對大海和我們日常生活嚴重影響的事實和一些想法 , 幫助大家來擺脫塑膠包圍圈 。	artist diana kahn shared the fact that plastic pollution had a serious impact on the ocean and on our daily lives to help people get away with plastic enclosures .
consumerism , globalissues , green , missionblue , oceans , plastic	consumerism , global issues , green , mission blue , oceans , playstics .
戴安娜•科恩diannacohen:關於塑膠汙染的嚴峻事實	diane cohen: the harsh truth about plastic pollution .
我是個視覺藝術家 , 也是塑膠汙染聯盟的創始人之一 。	i'm a visual artist and one of the founders of the plastic pollution alliance .
過去20年 , 我一直參與塑膠包的工作 , 我藝術創作的原材料是裁製和縫合塑膠 。	for the last 20 years , i've been involved in plastic packets , and the raw material that i've been working on in my art is tailored and sewn plas
讓塑膠變為平面和立體型藝術 , 雕塑和藝術裝置 。	it makes plastics flat and 3d art , sculpture and art installation .
在與塑膠打交道的八年之後 , 我的一些作品開始開裂碎成許多小塑膠塊 。	eight years after dealing with plastic , some of my work began to break into smaller plastic blocks .
我想 , " 好極了 。	and i thought , " great .
塑膠就像我們人類一樣短命 。 "	plastics are like us . "
我自學進一步深入瞭解塑膠 , 我的確瞭解到塑膠是個壞材料 。	i've learned to take a deeper understanding of plastic , and i do realize that plastic is a bad material .
塑膠碎成許多小塊 , 但它還是塑膠 , 這很糟糕 。	plastic is shredded into lots of little bits , but it's still plastic , and it's terrible .
我們發現有很多塑膠漂浮於大海 。	we found a lot of plastic floating in the ocean .
然而在過去的幾年 , 我知道太平洋垃圾環流和垃圾漩渦 。	however , in the last few years , i've learned about pacific garbage gyres and gyres .
我第一反應--我想這也是多數人的第一反應 , 知道這之後-- " 喔 , 我的上帝 !	and my first reaction i think that's the first reaction to most people , who knows , " oh , my god !
我們要去那裡並清理這些塑膠 。 "	we're going to go there and clean up these plastics . "
所以我提議一隻貨船 , 兩隻退役拖網漁船 , 一臺起重機 , 一臺削片機和一臺冷壓機出海 。	so i proposed a cargo ship , two retired trawling vessels , a crane , a shopper and a refrigerator .
我計劃是航行到垃圾環流帶 , 提高對於此汙染的高度重視 , 開始回收塑膠 , 切割它變成小片 , 然後冷壓變成塑膠塊 , 它可能被用來作為欠發達社群的建築材料 。	i plan to sail to the garbage duct belt , to highly value the pollution , to start recycling the plastic , cutting it into smaller slices , then turning it into plastic , and it could be used as a building material for the adaptive community .
我同那些曾去過垃圾環流帶的人們談過 , 他們也曾研究過塑膠汙染對海洋環境的汙染 , 交談之後 , 我開始意識到海上清理塑膠相比起全球每天產生塑膠的生產量就如大海撈針一樣 , 我必須回過頭想想 , 要展望更大的藍圖 。	i spoke with people who have been to the garbage dumpsters , and they've also studied plastic pollution pollution pollution pollution in the ocean environment , and after talking , i've come to realize that plastics are more productive every day than those that produce plastic needles all around the world , and i have to go back and think about it and see bigger blueprints .
真正的解決辦法就是:我們需要在源頭找到解決方法 。	the real solution is: we need to find solutions at the source .
我們需要切斷一次性使用塑膠和一次性塑膠的源頭 , 使得它們在全球範圍內每天不會再進入大海 。	we need to cut the sources of plastic and oneoff plastic so that they don't enter the ocean every day in the world .
看看這個 , 我也知道我非常生氣 。	look at this , and i know i'm angry .
我並不只關心你也可能想象到的在太平洋中部我們現在所知的 , 權威資料是 , 11個垃圾塑膠環流帶 , 遍及世界五大海洋 。	and i'm not just concerned about what you might imagine in the middle of the pacific , what we now know today , authority data is , of 11 junklike circulations across five oceans .
我不僅僅是關心塑膠環流帶 , 也包括超市的塑膠包圍圈 。	i'm not just concerned about plastic rings , but i'm also a supermarket plastic enclosure .
我要去超市 , 所有事物都是塑膠包裝 。	i'm going to the supermarket and everything is plastic packaging .
所有飲料都是塑膠包裝 , 甚至健康的有機市場 。	all the drinks are plastic packaging , even healthy organic markets .
我也關注在冰箱的塑膠 , 還有塑膠以及濾取塑膠的毒素被我們吃下和吸收到我們身體裡 。	i'm also looking at plastic in refrigerators , and plastic and filtering toxins that we eat and absorb our bodies .
我和其他的一群人們都關注這個塑膠汙染問題 , 組建了塑膠汙染聯盟 。	i and a bunch of other people looked at this plastic pollution problem and created the plastic pollution alliance .
我們為解決這問題開始許多活動 , 它們中的一些是非常簡單的 。	we started a lot of activity to solve this problem , and some of them were very simple .
其中一個是:在大海 , 我們發現百分80到百分90海洋廢棄物是塑膠 , 然後我們為什麼不稱其為:	one of them is: in the ocean , we found 80 to 90 percent of marine waste is plastic , and why don't we call it ?
再迴圈 。 關於可持續和再迴圈的環保想法的書籍都是類似的觀點 。	books about sustainable and recycled environmental ideas are similar points .
大家扔東西到垃圾桶裡 , 但是從來沒有再想過此事 。	people throw things in the garbage can , but they never thought about it .
現實是什麼呢 ?	what is reality ?
在美國 , 塑膠垃圾回收率少於百分之七 。	in the united states , plastic garbage is less than seven percent .
大家想實際看看 , 特別當塑膠變成塑膠瓶 , 絕大多數塑膠瓶僅被降級回收 , 或者焚燒 , 或運到中國 。	people want to see , especially when plastic becomes a plastic bottle , most of the plastic bottles are just being recycled or burned or shipped to china .
當一個塑膠瓶可以被重製成一個塑膠瓶 , 或者重被使用時 , 正是被降級回收 , 使得塑膠瓶被製成小塑膠體 , 使得一個塑膠瓶不再被製成塑膠瓶回收利用 。	when a plastic bottle can be recreated into a plastic bottle , or reused , it's being recycled so that a plastic bottle can be made into small plastic bottles so that a plastic bottle can no longer be recycled .
對我們而言 , 這是個重大問題 。	it's a big problem for us .
我們關注 , 並讓人們思考的另一件事是我們在原本3個r原則前 , reduce、reuse、recycle , 加了第四個r原則 , 它就是拒絕使用 。	one of the things that we're paying attention to and letting people think about is that , before we had three rr principles , reduce , recycle , plus the fourth rr principle , it was rejection use .
無論何時 , 拒絕使用一次性使用塑膠和即丟塑膠 。	whenever , refuse to use oneoff plastic and disposable plastic .
有替代品的使用 。 其中一些是非常老套 。	there are alternatives . some of them are very old .
我自己現在收集這些很酷的耐熱玻璃容器 , 使用這些而替換高興派和特百惠派塑膠容器來儲存食物 。	i'm now collecting these cool , tourist glass vessels using these to replace privilege privilege pupils and trafficient plastic containers
我知道我這樣做有利於我自己和我的家庭 。	i know that i do it for myself and for my family .
我們選擇使用不鏽鋼瓶和玻璃瓶是很容易的 , 你如果要出門 , 記得帶不鏽鋼瓶 , 讓它灌滿水 , 或者濾過水 , 而不要購買塑膠瓶裝水 。	it's easy to use stainless steel bottles and glass bottles , and if you want to go , remember rusty steel bottles , fill it up , or filter it water , instead of buying plastic bottles .
我猜我想要告訴大家的是我知道你們大家關於此塑膠汙染知道得很多漂在大海上的塑膠是個嚴重的問題 , 但這是我們做為消費者自身產生的問題 , 我們也能自身解決這問題 。	i guess what i'd like to tell you is that i know that many of you know about this plastic pollution is a serious problem in the ocean , but it's a problem that we're generating as a consumer , and we can solve it ourselves .
我們透過提高這問題的意識 , 教導人們選擇可替換性產品 , 能夠解決這問題 。	we're teaching people to choose alternative products by raising the awareness of this problem .
所以無論何時 , 請選擇使用可替換性產品 , 拒絕使用一次性使用塑膠和即丟塑膠 。	so whenever you want to use replaceable products , refuse to use oneoff plastic and disposable plastic .
我們可以切斷源頭 , 阻止這塑膠汙染到我們的海洋裡 , 透過如上4r行動 , 拯救我們的海洋 , 拯救我們的家園 , 拯救我們自己 。	we can cut the source and block this plastic pollution into our oceans by saving our oceans , by 4ring , by saving our homes , by saving ourselves .
這個演示--來自pattiemaes在麻省理工的實驗室 , 由pranavmistry演示--在ted大受好評 。 這是一個可佩帶的帶有一個投影儀的裝置 , 為我們與周圍環境的互動帶來了新的啟發 。 想象一下《少數派報告》吧 。	this is a demonstration from pattie maes' lab at mit , demonstrated by pranavmistry , which is very good at ted . it's a projector in a petabyte , which inspires a new inspiration for our interaction with the environment .
demo , design , interfacedesign , technology	demo , the things that matter , the interfacedesign .
pattiemaes演示 " 第六感 " , 劃時代的科技飾品	pattie maes demonstrated " the sixth sense , " technical jewelry of the age .
有一個問題我思考了很久 , 就是我們能否進化出一種第六感官 。 這種感官可以讓我們快速的便捷的獲得元資訊 , 或者是其他的一些資訊 , 在我們需要做出一些決定的時候 , 這些資訊能幫助我們做出正確的選擇 。	one of the questions i've been thinking about for a long time is whether we can evolve a sixth sense that can give us fast access to metal information , or some of the information that we need to make some decisions that will help us make the right choice .
你們可能會說 , 當今的手機不正是如此嗎 ?	and you might say , isn't it the case with mobile phones today ?
但是 , 我不認同 。	but i disagree .
假設 , 當你在ted遇到某人 , ted , 毫無疑問 , 是每年最佳的社交場所 。 難道你會不跟人家握手 , 然後說: " 你能等一會嗎 ? 我要用手機google一下你 。 "	let's say when you meet someone at ted , ted , absolutely the best social place every year , you don't shake hands with people and say , " can you wait ? i google you with my cell phone . "
或者 , 當你在超市裡 , 站在一排巨大的貨架前 , 面對著各種各樣的廁紙 , 難道你會拿出手機 , 開啟瀏覽器登入一個網站 , 嘗試去決定到底哪一種廁紙才是最環保的 , 最應該買的 ?	or , when you're in the supermarket , standing in front of a giant array of shelves , facing all kinds of toilet paper , are you going to take out your cell phone and open the browser to a website to try to decide which bathroom paper is the most ecologically purchased ?
所以說 , 我們並沒有一個便捷的渠道去獲取這些資訊 , 這些能幫助我們做出應該要幹什麼的最佳決定的資訊 。	so we don't have a quick channel to get this information that helps us make the best decisions we have to make .
因此 , 我的實驗室的研發團隊完成了一系列的發明 , 在不改變使用者行為的條件下 , 幫助使用者快速簡單的獲取這些資訊 。	so my lab's r&amp ; d team completed a series of innovations to help user access this information without changing the user's behavior .
現在 , 我將這個裝置展示給大家 。 這是我們至今最成功的版本 , 仍然在不斷改進 。	now , i'm showing this to you . this is the most successful version of us ever , and it's still improving .
我現在正佩戴著我們其實是把市面上常見的一些元件組裝在了一起 。 順便提一下 , 目前這個裝置的成本是350美元 。	now i'm wearing something that we actually assembled common components on the market .
我佩戴著一個相機 , 就是一個簡單的網路攝像頭 , 一個便攜的用電池供電的投影儀和一個小鏡子 。	i'm wearing a camera , a simple webcam , a portable battery projector and a little mirror .
這些元件跟我口袋中的手機進行通訊 , 手機作為一個通訊和計算的裝置 。	these components communicate with my phone in my pocket as a communications and computational device .
畫面中 , 是我的天才學生pranavmistry , 他設計並製造了這整套系統 。	this is my genius student pranavistry , who designed and built this entire system .
我們可以看到 , 當他靠近任何表面時 , 資訊就會被投影到表面上 , 他就用雙手來進行操作 。	and we can see that when he approaches any surface , the information gets projected on the surface , and he operates with his hands .
系統會跟蹤四個主要的手指 。	the system tracks four major fingers .
在這裡 , 你可以看到他戴著用於標示的指套 。	and here , you can see him wearing advice that he's used for .
如果你想要更美觀 , 可以把你的指甲染成不同的顏色 。	if you want to be more beautiful , you can infect your nails into different colors .
攝像頭會跟蹤這四個手指 , 識別他的任何手勢 , 例如 , 他可以開啟longbeach的地圖 , 進行放大或者縮小等等操作 。	the camera is tracking these four fingers , identifying any gestures in his hands , for instance , and he can open up a map of longbeach to magnify or shrink or operate .
這個系統也能識別 " 象徵性手勢 " , 比如 , 當你做出這個 " 拍照手勢 " , 系統就會拍照 , 把你面前的東西拍下來 。	this system also recognizes symbolic gestures , such as when you make this photograph gesture , the system takes a picture and takes a picture of what is in front of you .
當他回到medialab實驗室之後 , 他可以走近任何一面牆 , 投影出他拍的所有照片 , 用各種自然手勢 , 進行整理 , 歸類 , 改變大小等各種操作 。 所有操作都用手勢來完成 。	when he got back to the medalia ab lab , he could walk up to any wall and project all the photographs he had taken using various natural gestures , organize them , categorize them , change things , change things , all gestures .
你們當中有些人兩年前在這裡應該看過jeffhan演示微軟的surface系統 , 你們可能覺得:這套系統跟surface看起來很像 。	some of you may have seen jeff han playing a microsoft surface system two years ago , which you may think is very similar to surface .
沒錯 , 這兩套系統都是用自然手勢 , 用雙手來操作 。	well , both of these systems are natural hand gestures , using both hands .
但區別是 , 我這套系統可以在任何表面上操作 , 你可以走近任何表面 , 如果沒有可用的表面 , 你還可以用自己的手與投影的資料進行互動 。	but the difference is , i can use this system to operate on any surface , and you can go to any surface , and if it doesn't work , you can interact with your own hand and projection data .
這個裝置的使用是完全沒有限制的 , 而且可以用來......	this device is completely unlimited , and it can be used . . .
所以 , 最重要的區別就是 , 我這套系統是完全便攜移動的 。	so the most important difference is that my system is completely portable .
另一個更重要的區別是 , 這個裝置將來量產 , 不會比今天的手機貴 , 也不會像我現在戴著的這麼笨重 , 會變得更時尚更美觀 , 比我現在戴著的這個要好看 。	the other thing that's even more important is that this device is going to be massproduced , it's not going to be so expensive , it's not as stupid as i'm wearing right now , it's going to be more beautiful than what i'm wearing right now .
這個裝置除了讓你們的幻想變為現實 , 讓你們看起來跟《少數派報告》裡的tomcruise一樣酷之外 , 真正值得振奮的是 , 它確實可以充當一種 " 第六感官 " , 為你提供在你面前的任何物體的相關資訊 。	this device , besides getting your fantasy to be real , makes you look as cool as tom cruise in " the minority report , " and what's really exciting is that it actually serves as a kind of " sixth sense " to give you any information about the object in front of you .
我們看到pranav現在去了超市 , 他打算買一些紙巾 。	we see pranav now at the grocery store , and he's going to buy some paper towels .
當他拿起一種紙巾時 , 系統會透過影象識別或者是標識技術自動識別這種紙巾 , 然後顯示一個綠燈 , 或者是橙燈 。	when he picks up a paper towel , the system will automatically identify a paper towel , or an icon , or an orange lamp .
他可以取得更多資訊 。	he can get more information .
所以現在這個選擇 , 根據他個人的標準 , 是一個最佳選擇 。	so this choice now , according to his personal standards , is the best choice .
你們有些人可能想要含有最多漂白劑的廁紙 , 而不是最環保的廁紙 。	some of you might want the most bleached toilet paper instead of the greenest toilet paper .
當他在書店拿起一本書時 , 他會獲得亞馬遜網站對於這本書的評價 。 這些資訊直接被投影到書的封面上 。	when he picks up a book in the bookstore , he gets amazon review of the book , which is directly projected on the cover of the book .
這本是之前的演講者juan的著作 , 在亞馬遜大受好評 。	this was an earlier speech by juan , a great review on the amazon .
然後 , 當pranav翻開這本書 , 會看到這本書的更多相關資訊--讀者評論 , 他最喜歡的書評家對於此書的評論 , 等等 。	and then when pranav flipped the book , he saw more information about the book reader comments , his favorite book critics commenting on the book , etc .
如果他翻到特定的某頁 , 他會看到我們的朋友中的某個專家所作的一個註腳 , 給他提供一些關於這一頁的附加資訊 。	if he flips to a particular page , he'll see a footnote from one of our experts in our friends , giving him some information about this page .
看報紙的時候 , 永遠都有最及時的資訊 。	when you read the newspaper , there's always the most information in time .
你可以看到事件的影片報道 , 可以看到體育比賽的最及時的比分 , 等等 。	you can see the video channels of events , and you can see the sports game scores , etc . , etc .
接下來是一個有爭議的功能 。	here's a controversial function .
當你在這遇到某人 , 你會看到一個標籤雲 , 這些標籤是跟這個人相關的 , 是從這個人的部落格和個人主頁中提取的 。	when you meet someone here , you'll see a tag cloud , which is related to this person , is extracted from this person's blog and this person's page .
在這個例子中 , 我們看到這位學生對相機感興趣 , 等等 。	in this case , we saw this student interested in cameras , etc .
在你去機場的路上 , 當你拿出你的登機牌 , 它會告訴你航班延誤了 , 登機口改換了 , 等等 。	on your way to the airport , when you take out your boarding card , it will tell you that the flight has gone wrong , the intersection has changed , and so on .
還有 , 如果你想知道時間的話 , 非常簡單 , 在你的手臂上畫一個錶盤 。	and also , if you want to know time , it's very simple to draw a watch dial on your arm .
這就是我們開發的第六感官目前的進展 。 這種讓我們可以隨時隨地獲取相關資訊 , 方便我們的生活 , 幫助我們更好的生活 。	that's the sixth senses that we're developing right now , which allows us to recognize information all the time , to make our lives better for us .
我的天才學生pranav ,	i was a genius student pranav .
應該得到這些掌聲 , 他過去三個月廢寢忘食的工作 。	he ought to be applauded for his past three months of absurd dust .
他的女朋友肯定是一肚子牢騷 。	his girlfriend must have been a stomach .
但是 , 這個裝置目前還不完善 。	but this is a device that's not done well yet .
或許在未來十年之內 , 我們的大腦中會植入超級的第六感官 。	perhaps in the next decade , our brains will be embedded in supersensations .
菲莉斯•羅德里格斯和艾莎•瓦非從不計較得失之中衍生出了緊密的友情 。 羅德里格斯的兒子在2001年911撞擊世貿大廈時喪生 ; 瓦非的兒子撒迦利亞•穆薩維因發起這次襲擊而被定罪並判處死刑 。 為了尋求希望中的和平 , 這兩位母親互相瞭解並互相倚重 。	philips rodriguez and isaac wavin never derived close friendships from the middle of the attack , and the son of ron riguez losed in '91 when the collision of the world trade center in 2001 ; wattannam musavey , who was convicted and sentenced to seek peace in the search for hope and understand each other and understand each other .
culture , globalissues , politics	audiences , islas sues , politics .
治癒911:尋找寬恕 , 友誼的母親們	healing 911: find forgiveness , friendship mothers .
菲莉斯•羅德里格斯:我們今天站在這裡是因為我們擁有大多數認為的不尋常的一份友情 。	felis rodrigues: we're standing here today because we have an unusual friendship that most of us think .
現在 , 我們已經感覺很自然了 。	now , we feel natural .
我起初知道我的兒子在2001年9月11日早晨進入了世貿大廈 。	i first learned that my son entered the world trade center on september 11th , 2001 .
我們不知道是否他還活著直到事發36小時之後 。	we didn't know if he was alive until 36 hours later .
那時 , 我知道這是政治原因 。	at that time , i knew it was political .
我們擔心國家會以我們孩子的名義要做的那些事--我丈夫 , 奧蘭多 , 和我以及我們一家 。	we're worried that countries will do things like our children's names my husband , orlando , and i .
當我看到的時候--可是 , 經歷了這種震驚 , 可怕的震驚 , 真正意義上的生活中可怕的震驚 , 我們並沒有心存報復 。	and when i saw and yet , through this shock , this terrible shock , this terrible shock , truly meaningful shock , we had no retaliation .
幾周之後當撒迦利亞•穆薩維被指控為六個密謀製造恐怖襲擊的份子之一 , 同時美國政府對他將判決死刑 , 如果定罪的話 , 我丈夫和我也用完全不同的角度 , 群眾的角度討論過這些 。	a few weeks later , when shah musavey was accused of one of six plots creating terrorist attacks while the us government was sentenced to death , my husband and i were discussing them in completely different ways .
透過這些也透過人權組織 , 我們走到了一起還有一些其他受害者家屬 。	through these and through human rights organizations , we came together with some other victims' families .
當我在媒體上看到艾莎 , 同時她的兒子被指控的時候 , 我就想 , " 多麼勇敢的女人 。	when i saw isa in the media and her son was accused of it , i thought , " what a brave woman .
當我更堅強的時候 , 我想見見這個女人 。 "	when i'm stronger , i want to meet this woman . "
我仍舊沉浸在悲傷中 , 我知道我不夠堅強 。	i was still immersed in sadness , and i knew i wasn't strong enough .
我知道有一天我能找到她 , 也許我們會找到彼此 。	i knew that one day i could find her , maybe we would find each other .
因為 , 當人們聽說我兒子是受害者的時候 , 我立即得到了同情 。	because immediately got compassion when people heard that my son was a victim .
但是當人們聽說她的兒子是被指控的時候 , 她卻沒有得到同情 。	but when people heard that her son was accused , she didn't get compassion .
但是她和我一樣的痛苦 。	but she suffered like me .
於是我們在2002年11月相遇了 。 接下來艾莎會告訴你們事情是怎麼發生的 。	so we met in november 2002 , and then isaac would tell you how things happened .
艾莎•瓦非:下午好 , 女士們先生們 。	issa watt: good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen .
我是撒迦利亞•穆薩維的母親 。	i'm a mother of sahara musavi .
我請求人權組織讓我和那些受害者的父母取得聯絡 。	i asked the human rights organization to let me reach in touch with the parents of the victim .
於是他們就把我介紹給5個家庭 。	so they introduced me to five families .
當我遇見菲莉斯的時候 , 我注意到她 。	when i met phillis , i noticed her .
她是這個團體中唯一的母親 。	she was the only mother in this group .
其他都是兄弟 , 姐妹 。	the others are brothers , sisters .
當我從她的目光中看出她是個母親 , 和我一樣的母親 。	when i saw her from her eyes , she was a mother like me .
作為一個母親我也遭受了很多悲痛 。	i suffer a lot of grief as a mother .
我14歲結的婚 。	i got married when i was 14 .
15歲失去了第一個孩子 , 16歲失去了第二個孩子 。	15yearolds lost their first child , and 16 lost their second child .
所以撒迦利亞的事對我真的意味太多 。	so sagalia's story really meant a lot to me .
我仍舊還在悲痛中 , 因為我的兒子就像被活埋了一樣 。	i was still in grief , because my son was just buried alive .
我瞭解她的確為她兒子痛哭不已 。	i understood that she was crying for her son .
但是她起碼知道他在哪裡 。	but she at least knew where he was .
我兒子 , 我甚至不知道他在何方 。	my son , i didn't even know where he was .
我不知道他是否還活著 。 我不知道他是否被虐待過 。	i don't know if he's alive . i don't know if he's abused .
我不知道在他身上發生了什麼 。	i didn't know what happened to him .
這也是為什麼我決定講述我的故事的原因 , 以便我的痛苦能對其他婦女有些正面的幫助 。	and that's why i decided to tell my story so that i could have some positive support to other women .
為了所有的婦女 , 所有賜予生命的母親 , 你們可以恢復 , 你們可以改變 。	for all women , all mothers who give life , you can recover , you can change .
這取決於我們婦女 , 因為我們是女人 , 因為我們愛我們的孩子 。	it depends on our women , because we are women , because we love our children .
我們一定要聯手起來一起做一些事 。	we must come together and do something together .
這事不是為了反對婦女 , 這是為了我們 , 為了我們婦女 , 為了我們的孩子們 。	it's not for women , it's for us , for our women , for our children .
我反對暴力 , 反對恐怖主義 。	i'm against violence , against terrorism .
我去學校和那些年輕的穆斯林女孩交談所以在她們年少時不會接受違揹她們意志的婚姻 。	i went to school to talk to young muslim girls , so they didn't accept transgressing their will to marry when they were young .
如果我能拯救一個年輕的女孩 , 從而避免她們過早結婚而像我一樣遭受這麼多 , 起碼這就是好的事情 。	if i could save a young girl from getting married early and getting so much as i did , at least that would be a good thing .
這就是為什麼我在這裡站在你們面前 。	that's why i stand here in front of you .
菲莉斯•羅德里格斯:我想說的是我從艾莎這裡學到了很多 , 回首我們初次見面的那天還有其他家庭的成員--這是個受保護的很私下的聚會 , 因為當時是2002年11月 , 老實說 , 我們擔心國內的那些極端愛國主義者--那些我們家族成員 。	philisto rodrigues: so what i want to say is that i learned a lot from here , back on the day that we first met and other family members this was a private gathering , because it was november 2002 , and honestly , we worried about the extreme patriots in the country those of our family members .
但是我們都很緊張 。	but we were nervous .
" 為什麼她想見我們 ? "	" why did she want to see us ? "
同時她也很緊張 。	and she was also nervous .
" 為什麼我們想見她 ? "	" why do we want to see her ? "
我們彼此間想得到些什麼 ?	what do we think of as each other ?
在我們瞭解其他人的姓名和其他一些事情之前 , 我們已經哭著相互抱在一起 。	before we learn the names of others and some other things , we're already hugging each other together .
接著我們坐成一個圈在和解的環境下和那些經歷過此事的人互相扶持 , 互相幫助 。	and then we sit in a circle in a reconciliation environment with people who have experienced this and have helped each other .
艾莎起的頭她講述道 , " 我不知道我的兒子是有罪還是無辜的 , 但是我想告訴你們我有多麼抱歉對於那些發生在你們家庭裡的事 。	isaha's head she said , " i don't know if my son is guilty or innocent , but i want to tell you how sorry i am about what happened to your family .
我知道這是很痛苦 , 同時我以為 , 如果有人犯罪的話 , 那人應該被公平的對待和定罪 。 "	i know it's painful , and i think if someone criminalizes , that person should be treated fairly and convicted . "
但她是用這種方式與我們感同身受 。 這是 , 我想說 , 這是一種冰釋前嫌的方式 。	but she was suffering from us in this way , which is , i want to say , a way forwards the ice .
接下去發生的是 , 我們全都講述了自己的故事 , 我們作為平等人互相交流著 。	and what happened next was , we all told our own stories , and we communicated as equals .
在下午結束的時候--大概是午餐之後3個小時--我們感覺就好像我們永遠瞭解彼此一樣 。	at the end of the afternoon three hours after lunch we felt like we knew each other forever .
我從她身上學到的 , 是作為一個女人 , 可以變的如此寬容不但在當時的情況下那時所發生的 , 和她孩子所經歷過的遭遇 , 而且是她所經歷的人生 。	what i've learned from her is that being a woman can be so generous , not only what happened at the time , but what happened to her children , but what happened to her life .
從我經歷過的不同文化和環境 , 我從來沒有見到過 , 有如此艱苦命運的人 。	from different cultures and environments i've ever experienced , i've never seen anyone such a tough one .
我覺得我們有著一種特別的聯絡 , 一種我很珍惜的聯絡 。	i think we have a unique contact , a contact that i cherish .
我想這都是因為互相之間的關心 , 但是當做到這地步就會意識到 , " 啊 , 這不是那麼難 。	i think it's all about interconnectedness , but when you do that , you realize , " ah , that's not that hard .
我還能遇見一些我所不瞭解的人 , 或是和我與眾不同的人嗎 ?	can i meet people i don't know , or people i don't know ?
所以 , 艾莎 , 你有要總結的話嗎 ?	so isa , if you want to summarize ?
因為我們的時間快到了 。	because our time is running out .
艾莎•瓦非:我想說我們要嘗試著瞭解其他人 , 其他事 ,	isa waven: i want to say we're trying to understand other people , other things .
你要變得大度 , 同時你的心境也必須變得寬容 , 你的想法必須變得大度 。	you have to be big , and your mind has to be generous , and your ideas have to be big .
你要學會寬恕 。	you learn to forgive .
你不得不與暴力作鬥爭 。	you have to fight violence .
我希望有一天我們會生活在一起和平尊重其他人 。	i hope that one day we will live together and respect others .
這就是我想說的 。	that's what i want to say .
世界上有太多人無法獲取飲用水 。 工程師麥克普理查德為次做了點什麼發明可攜帶救生瓶過濾層 , 可以在瞬間解決大多數飲用水的問題 。 一個來自tedglobla2009的美妙示範 。	there are so many people in the world that can't get drinking water , and the engineer michael richard did something about the invention of a portable bottle filter that could solve most of the drinking water in a split second: a wonderful demonstration from tedglobla 2009 .
business , demo , design , globalissues , invention , technology , water	those are the things that matter , the world , the issues , the disease , the disease , the water .
麥克普理查德將髒水淨化成可飲用的 。	michael richard cleans the dirty water into drinkable .
我今天想談談幾件事情 。	i want to talk about a couple of things today .
第一件事是水 。	the first thing is water .
我可以看到大家都十分享受由大會所提供的飲用水 , 在過去的幾天裡 。	i can see people sharing the drinking water provided by the conference in the last few days .
我確定你們都感覺那些水是出自一個安全的水源 。	i'm sure all of you feel that the water comes from a safe source of water .
但是如果不是的呢 ?	but what if it's not ?
如果是出自這樣的水源呢 ?	what if it comes from a source like this ?
資料會表明你們其中的一半現在會在拉肚子了 。	the data suggests that half of you are going to be pulling your belly now .
我過去常常談關於資料 , 以及為所有的人提供安全的飲用水的問題 。	i used to talk a lot about data and about safe drinking water for all of us .
但是這似乎得不到重視 。	but this seems impossible to pay attention .
不過我覺得我搞清楚了這是為什麼 ,	but i thought i figured out why .
是因為 , 用當前的想法 , 問題的程度似乎大得我們難以想象可以解決 。	it's because the level of the problem seems to be so big that we can't imagine it .
所以我們乾脆不想了 。 我們 , 政府 , 和艾滋病機構 , 都放棄了 。	so we just didn't think about it . we , governments and aids organizations , gave up .
好吧 , 今天 , 我就要給你們看看透過不同的思維方式 , 把這個問題解決了 。	okay , so today , i'm going to show you a different way of thinking , solving this problem .
但是 , 順便說一聲 , 就在我演講的同時 。 世界上有13000人正在遭受腹瀉的痛苦 。	but , by the way , as i speak , 13 , 000 people in the world are suffering from diarrhea .
而4個孩子剛剛死去了 。	four children just died .
我發明了這個救生瓶因為我真的生氣了 。	i invented this life bottle because i was really angry .
我 , 像你們其中的大多數人 , 在2004年的聖誕節後的一天在電視機前坐了下來 , 看到了那條災難性的新聞-電視里正在直播亞洲海嘯的登入 。	i , like most of you , sat down on christmas day after christmas 2004 , and saw that catastrophic news tv news that's going on livestreaming asian tsunami .
在接下來的幾天 , 幾個星期裡 , 人們逃難到山上 , 被迫去喝被汙染的水 , 不然就會被死亡威脅 。	over the next few days , over the next few weeks , people have escaped to the mountains , forced to drink contaminated water or will be killed .
那場景讓我久久不能忘懷 。	that scene kept me forgotten .
接下來 , 幾個月後 , 卡特里娜颶風席捲了美國的海岸線 。	and then a few months later , katrina rolled the coast of the united states .
" 好吧 , " 我想 , " 這裡個第一世界國家 , 讓我們看看他們可以做些什麼 。 "	" all right , " i thought , " this is the first world country , let's see what they can do . "
你們可知道他們花了整整5天時間才把水弄到新奧爾良體育館 ?	do you know that it took them five days to get water into the new orleans stadium ?
人們為了電視和水在街上用槍火拼 。	people spell guns on television and water on the streets .
那時 , 我就決定我要做些什麼了 。	that's when i decided i was going to do something .
在接下來的幾個星期和幾個月裡 , 我在我的車庫裡花費了不少時間 。 也在我的廚房裡花了不少時間 , 使我的妻子看了搖頭 。	over the next few weeks and months , i spent a lot of time in my garage , and i spent a lot of time in my kitchen , and my wife watched shake his head .
然而 , 就在幾個失敗的試驗模型後 , 我終於做出了這個 , 救生瓶 。	however , after a few failed experimental models , i finally made this , rescue bottle .
好了 , 現在來講點科學背景 。	okay , now a little bit of science .
在救生瓶發明前 , 最佳的手動過濾器只能過濾200奈米左右的物體 。	before the rescue bottle , the best hand filters can only filter about 200 nanometers or so .
最小的細菌就有大約200奈米 。	the smallest bacteria has about 200 nanometers .
所以一個200奈米的細菌可以穿過這個200奈米的網孔 。	so a 200nanometer bacterium can go through this 200nanometer hole .
另外來說 , 最小的病毒 , 大概有25奈米 。	the smallest virus , on the other hand , is about 25 nanometers .
所以那絕對會穿過那個200奈米的網孔 。	so that's definitely going to cross that 200nanometer hole .
救生瓶的網孔只有15奈米 。	the rescue bottles are only 15 nanometers .
所以沒東西可以透過 。	so nothing goes through .
好了 , 我將要給你們一個示範 。	well , i'm going to give you a demonstration .
你們想看嗎 ?	do you want to see it ?
我花了好些時間把這個設定好 , 所以我想我應該做個示範 。	i spent some time setting this up , so i thought i should do a demonstration .
我們在美好的牛津市裡 。	we're in oxford city .
哦 , 有人已經把這放好了 。	oh , somebody put that up already .
美好的牛津 , 我所做的是 , 我從徹韋爾河裡弄了點水 , 裡面還有泰晤士裡流過來的水 。 這就是我弄來的水了 。	and what i did was , i made some water from the cheewell river and the water coming out of the thames . and that's the water that i got .
但是我就想了 , 你們知道的 , 如果我們在洪水區裡在孟加拉國裡 , 那水可不像這樣 。	but i thought , you know , if we were in the floods of bangladesh , that water wouldn't look like this .
所以我弄了這些東西來 , 把他們加進去 。	so i took these things , and i added them .
這是從我池塘里弄來的 。	this is from my pond .
聞聞這個 , 攝影師 。	smell this , photographer .
我們就把這些倒入這個裡面 。	and we just poured that in .
麥克普理查德:好 , 我們還從汙水處理廠的水流里弄了點水 。	michael pride: ok , we got some water from the sewage treatment plant .
我們把這也放進去 。	we put this in there .
放進去 , 好的 。	put it in , ok .
和這些亂七八糟的東西 , 一起丟進去 。	throw in with these chaotic things .
這是我朋友的兔子送給我的 " 禮物 " 。	this is a gift from my friend's rabbit .
我們把這個也給放進去 。	we put this in .
救生瓶的使用十分簡單 。	the rescue bottle is very simple .
你就把水舀起來 。	you scoop up the water .
今天 , 我會使用一個罐子就為了給你們瞧瞧 , 讓我們放點糞便進去 ,	today , i'm going to use a jar just to show you , so let's put some dung in there .
那還不夠髒 , 讓我們攪一下 。	that's not dirty enough , let's stir .
好了 , 我就要把這極髒的水 , 放進這裡 。 你現在想喝這個水嗎 ?	okay , so i'm going to put this very dirty water in here . do you want to drink this water now ?
好了 , 這樣 。	okay , here we go .
抽動幾下 , 好吧 ?	twitch a few , okay ?
這就可以了 。	that's it .
現在一旦我開啟這個瓶蓋 , 可飲用水就會從這裡冒出來 。 我可得做得快 。	now , once i open up this bottle cap , the drinking water will come out of it . i can do it fast .
好了 , 準備好了 ?	okay , ready ?
這樣 。 注意電器 。	so . notice appliances .
這是安全的 , 無菌的可飲用水 。	this is safe , sterile drinking water .
你來試試 , 克里斯 。	you're going to try this , chris .
嚐起來怎麼樣 ?	what does it taste like ?
讓我們看看克里斯接下來節目的表現怎麼樣 。 好嘛 ?	let's see what chris's next show looks like . okay ?
好了 。 救生瓶正在被世界各地上千人所使用 。	alright . life bottles are being used by thousands of people around the world .
它可以淨化6000升水 。	it purifies 600 liters of water .
當它過期後 , 應用故障自動保全技術 , 這個系統會自動關閉 , 從而保護了使用者 。	when it's overdriven , the application of the application of automatic security , the system is switching off and protecting the user .
把淨化盒取出 , 裝進新的一個 。	take out the boxes and install them into new ones .
又可以處理6000升的水 。	it can also handle 600 liters of water .
讓我們看看它的使用的範圍 。	let's look at the range of its use .
以往 , 在一個危機中 , 我們怎麼做 ?	what have we done in a crisis before ?
然後 , 幾個星期後 , 我們架設起難民營 。	and then a few weeks later , we set up a refugee camp .
然後大眾會被迫去難民營去取得飲用水 。	and then the public will be forced to go to a refugee camp to get water .
你們想想 , 當20000人擠在一個難民營裡會發生些什麼 ?	what happens when 2 , 000 people are packed in a refugee camp ?
疾病會傳播 , 更多的資源會被需要 。	diseases spread , and more resources are needed .
這樣問題就變成了自我持續的了 。	the problem becomes selfsustaining .
但是換一個角度去想問題 , 把這些運過去 , 群眾可以按兵不動 ,	but think about it another way , and get those shipping , and the crowd can't move .
他們可以製造他們自己的可飲用水 , 然後開始重建他們的家園和生活 。	they can make their own drinkable water , and start rebuilding their homes and their lives .
這不需要一個自然災害讓這來工作 。	it doesn't need a natural disaster to make this work .
用老眼光來看待問題 , 使用一個國家的基礎設施 , 以及管道系統 , 這太昂貴了 。	it's too expensive to look at the problem using an infrastructure and a pipeline system .
你用計算器來算算看 , 怎麼算都不夠 。	you count the calculators , not enough .
所以 , 這裡可以用不同的角度來看待問題 。	so this is a different way of looking at the problem .
我們不要運輸飲用水 , 而要用人工的方法去製造飲用水 , 讓我們依靠起大自然母親 。 她有一個神奇的系統 ,	we don't transport our drinking water , we manually manufacture our drinking water , we rely on mother nature , and she has an amazing system .
她把水從這裡拿起來 , 免費過濾 , 免費運輸到另一個地方 , 然後在那邊的山上 , 河裡和小溪裡放下它 。	she picks it up from here , she filters free , transports it to another place , and then drops it in the mountains and in the rivers and the streams .
人類大多在那裡居住 ? 靠近水源的地方 。	humans mostly live there ? near water .
我們只要把水殺菌 , 變成可引用水 。	all we have to do is turn water bacteria into waterable ones .
為此 , 我們可以使用救生瓶 。	and for that , we can use life bottles .
或者我們可以用這個東西 。	or we can use this .
它使用同樣的技術 , 只是用在這種罐子上 。	it uses the same technology , just on this jar .
這可以處理25 , 000升水 。 這可足夠維持一個4口之家 , 用上3年 。	this can handle 25 , 000 liters of water , and that's enough to maintain a fourworld home for three years .
那這需要多少錢 ?	how much would it cost ?
大概每天半美分 。	about half a dollar a day .
所以 , 從不同的角度考慮問題 , 在水源處處理水 , 這樣母親和孩子們每天不必走上4小時去採集他們的水 。	so thinking about water from different perspectives , processing water at the water so that mothers and children don't have to walk four hours a day to collect their water .
他們可以在附近的水源地取得 。	they can get it from nearby water .
這樣可用僅僅80億美元 , 讓我們達成這個千年的發展目標 , 使沒有安全引用水的人口減半 。	this would take just eight billion dollars , and it would allow us to achieve this millennium development goal , which would cut the population of water security without security .
比較起來 , 英國政府一年提供的國外艾滋病資助達到120億磅 。	compare that to 12 billion pounds of aids funded by the u . k . government per year .
但是為什麼就此止步 ?	but why stop there ?
我們可以用20億磅 , 使每個人都能有安全的可飲用水 。	we can use two billion pounds so that everybody can have safe drinking water .
這樣每年3億半受苦受難的人民 , 以及 , 每年死亡的兩百萬的兒童 , 會繼續生存下去 。	300 million people suffering every year , and two million children dying every year , will continue to survive .
在tedx布魯塞爾一個吸引的演講上 , 帕迪•阿什當聲稱我們生活在歷史從沒有過權力改變的一刻 。 他看到並概括出三個主要的將來臨的全球轉移現象 。	in a fascinating speech at tedx x brussel , paddi ash claims that we live in a moment in history where power has never changed before , he sees and sums up three major global shifts in the future .
foreignpolicy , globalissues , politics , worldcultures	foreign policy , global issues , politics , worldcultures .
帕迪•阿什當:全球權力轉移	paddi ashdon: global power shift .
十九世紀末英國一位著名詩人寫了這樣一首詩	in the late 19th century , a famous poet wrote such a poem .
在1930年時 , 它被譽為丘吉爾腦海中的迴響	in 1930 , it was known as the reverberation of the churchill brain .
詩是這樣的閒蕩夏林間溪自細細流遙聽遠鼓響鼓樂疑夢音無常世間道珍重朋與輩 , 碾食成粉末戰士踏征途魂銷沙場渺	poems like this whispering stream of the whispering stream , poetry listening to the drums , wondering about the sounds of jane , the crushing , the crushing , the grinding , of the powder , of conquering the sales of the soul .
對詩詞有興趣的朋友這是豪斯曼的《施羅普希爾的少年》	i'm interested in poetry . this is housman's " schropphill's teenager . "
但豪斯曼感悟些什麼呢和你在尼爾森交響樂中聽到的一樣是那19世紀 , 又長 , 又悶熱 , 平靜的夏季森林即將結束我們將進入一個可怕的權力轉變的歷史週期	but what housman realized , as you heard in the symphony of nielson , was in the 19th century , long , hot , calm summer forests were coming to an end , and we're going to enter a terrible cycle of power shifting .
女士先生們 , 這時代通常會伴隨著動亂和流血事件	ladies and gentlemen , this age is often with turbulence and blood .
我給你的資訊是我相信我們坐上了同一條船活在歷史洪流中的同一時刻當你遇上固有權力的秩序開始改變新世界新力量開始形成	i give you the information that i believe we sit in the same boat at the same time in history , and when you meet the inherent order of power , order begins to change the way new world emerges .
這些--我們今天很清楚看見都是些超混亂 , 特艱難的年代和常有的流血時期 。	these and these we're very clear to see today are messy , chaotic ages and frequent bleeding .
順道一提 , 它大概一世紀出現一次	by the way , it appears about once a century ago .
你也許不認同最後那次的發生時間–就是豪斯曼和丘吉爾同時察覺的歐洲舊國家 , 舊勢力權力轉移到大西洋對岸新冒起的美國開始了美國世紀	you may not agree with the last time that housman and churchill are aware of the old european , old power shift to the rising america of the atlantic opposite coast .
當然 , 在歐洲勢力下坡的最後年代交替的空窗期出現了兩次屠殺大災難前後兩次的世界大戰	and of course , in the very end of the decline in europe , the windows appeared two times before the genocide catastrophe , world war ii .
毛澤東稱它為歐洲內戰這形容確也貼切	mao zedong called it " the european civil war , " which is indeed appropriate .
好 , 女士先生們我們生活在這當下	well , ladies and gentlemen , we live at the moment .
為了我們 , 今天我打算談談三個原素	for us , i'm going to talk about three ingredients today .
這當中的頭一個是有關權力轉移	the first one of them is about shifting power .
至於 , 第二個我稱它為新領域過去好像都沒出現過	now , the second area i call " the new frontier " seems to have never appeared .
我們先說說發生中的權力轉移	let's start with the power shift .
今天出現的有點令人驚慄因為它從沒發生過	it's a little frivolous to show up today , because it never happened .
我們見過權力的橫向轉移權力從希臘過渡到羅馬和歐洲社會出現的權力轉移但我們看到的現狀稍異	we've seen power transition from greece to rome and european societies , but we're seeing a slightly different status quo .
權力不單是橫向在國與國間遊走	power is not just about traveling across the country and across the country .
它也縱向移動	it's moving vertically .
今天出現的權力轉移 , 更包括和國家憲法裡的責任和法律的裁決今天都很大程度搬上了國際舞臺	today's power shifts , including responsibility and legal decisions from the national constitution , are moving to the international stage .
權力全球化我們講市場全球化但真正全球化的是權力	it's globalization . we talk about globalization , but what's really global is power .
但在國家層面上權力的層次是受法律的約束在國際舞臺便不一樣	but at the level of power at the national level , legal constraints on the international stage are different .
現今國際和環球舞臺上的權力屬於網際網路、衛星廣播貨幣兌換鉅額鈔票的流轉融資額度約是貿易需求的32倍貨幣兌客 , 你可稱之為金融投機家近來 , 他們所為相當令人拜服現今跨國企業的編制預算的財力比一般中等國家還要大	today's power on the international and global stage belongs to the internet , to the satellite broadcasting currency , which is about 32 times larger than financial money transfers , which you might call the currency of trade demand , and they're quite convincing the budget of today's multinational corporations than the average medium nation .
生存在國際舞臺絕大部分不受監管既不受法律規管行動又不受約束	the international stage is largely unconstrained by regulation , not by regulation , not by regulation , not by regulation .
直至現在都有利權勢人士	until now , there are power privilege players .
在無約束下運作永遠適合極權者但從歷史可知 , 不久將來沒有監管的區域沒有法治的所在會不斷膨脹 , 不只出現一些你要的東西如國際貿易 , 網際網路 , 等等同時 , 也會出現些你不要的國際罪案 , 國際恐怖主義	operates under the constraints forever , but knowing from history , zones without regulation will be inflated , not just by what you want , like the international trade , the internet , but also by international crimes , international terrorism .
911事件揭示即使你身在地球上最強勢的國家城市裡最具代表性的地標建築不管怎樣在九月某個明亮的早晨那些空間的人民一樣能攻擊你	september 11th reveals that even if you're in the most powerful nation on earth , the iconic landmark buildings , no matter what , at some point in september at some bright morning , those spaces can attack you .
據說 , 經雙子塔法團透過的4百萬元流動資金的當中約60%是用來支助911事件的而雙子塔就在9/11事件中被摧毀	it's said that 60 percent of the four milliondollar mobility funding of the twin tower was funded for 9/11 , and the tower was destroyed in 9/11 .
看 , 我們的敵人也會利用這些空間集體運輸 , 網際網路 , 衛星廣播來解決他們的毒害不久 , 這會毀掉	see , our enemies also use these spaces to collectively transport , the internet , satellite broadcasters to solve their poison , and soon it will destroy them .
我們的系統我們的方式歷史法則是權力走到那裡管治便要跟到那裡	our systems , our methods , our histories , are the rules of power that go there , and that governance is there .
如果這是事實 , 那我相信今日社會的其中一個現象既是權力全球化那隨之而來的挑戰 , 便應是管治全球化	if this is true , i believe one of the phenomena in our society today is globalization , and that the challenge with that is to govern globalization .
我相信未來的幾十年將會出現不同程度的騷亂多少能夠成就這個目標將管治全球化	i believe that in the next few decades , there will be a different degree of turmoil that will achieve globalization .
要注意 , 我談的不是政府	notice , i'm not talking about government .
也不是成立一些全球化的民主機構	it's not about starting democratic institutions around the world .
女士先生們 , 順道一提 , 我個人認為成立更多聯合國類機構並不能把事辦好	ladies and gentlemen , by the way , i personally think that it's not possible to start more united nations institutions .
如果我們沒有這聯合國 , 我們必需成立一個	if we don't have the united nations , we need to start one .
世界需要一箇中介的國際論壇	the international forum that the world needs to know .
去合法化國際的聯合行動	to legalize international associations .
但當涉及管治全球化時我估計透過更多的聯合國類機構也沒法達成	but when it comes to regulating globalization , i estimate that there are more u . n . institutions that cannot be achieved .
當權力聚攏的時候才會真正出現建立一個以條約為基礎的系統以條約為基礎的協議來管治這國際舞臺	when power comes together , it really creates a treatybased agreement that rules the international stage .
如你有留意 , 你會看見它正在發生 , 慢慢浮現	and as you'll notice , it's happening , it's emerging slowly .
世界貿易組織就是條約為本的組織完全以條約為本在必要時 , 他的現有勢力己足以制衡強國如美國	the world trade organization , which is a treatybased organization , is completely treatybased , and when necessary , his existing power is enough to balance strong nations like the united states .
京都協議:努力成立一個條約為本的組織的開始	kyoto: the beginning of a treatybased organization .
g20:現在我們知道我們要聯合起來組織一個有能力管治國際金融間投機活動的機構	g20: now we know that we are coming together to organize an institution that can govern international financial projections .
這便是g20:一個條約為本的機構	this is the g20: a treatybased institution .
現在 , 問題是 , 我們回頭再談這個如果你集中權力去建立一個條約為本的機構去填充管治空間那 , 那些沒參加的弱國怎麼辦呢	now , the question is , let's go back and talk about this: if you focus on building a treatybased institution to fill in the charge space , what about the weak nations that don't participate ?
這可是大問題稍後再到回這話題	but that's a big problem , and back to that later .
所以 , 我的第一要點是如果你身處這混亂年代不管混亂多還少要能成功克服很大程度取決於我們把合理的管理引進這國際舞臺的能力	so the first thing i want to do is , if you're in this chaotic age , no matter how little you can overcome success , it's very dependent upon our ability to bring reasonable governance into this global space .
並守護它出現	and guarded it .
我的第二要點是我知道我不必向你們說這種事但是 , 權力不單是縱向移動的它也橫向移動	my second point is that i know i don't have to say that to you , but power is not just vertical moving , it's moving horizontally .
也許你會從文明進化史角度和我爭論文明起源於沿海地帶地中海沿岸是其中之一西方最近一次的勢力增長在大西洋沿岸	maybe you'll evolve from a civilization's perspective , and i'll argue that civilization originates in the mediterranean coast , which is one of the most recent growth in the atlantic coast .
這我看來我們正目睹一幕重要的權力轉移坦白說就是權力從大西洋沿岸國家出走到太平洋沿岸	it seems to me that we are witnessing an important shift in power , frankly , from the atlantic coast to the pacific coast .
現在 , 首先轉移的是經濟也是通常最先出現的	now , the first thing that's shifting is that economies are also the first ones that occur
你已經見到世界上其它正在興起的勢力發展外交政策 , 增加國防預算	you've seen the rest of the world emerging foreign policy , increasing defense budgets .
我認為這不只是西方轉移到東方有些不一樣的正出現	and i think it's not just the west that shifts to the east , it's a different positive emergence .
我估計是 , 姑且這樣說未來的十年 , 十五年美國仍然是地球上最強的國家但他掌握權力的背景已經徹底改變	i estimate that , let's say that in the next 10 years , the united states is still the most powerful country on earth , but the context of power has radically changed .
這50年史上最不一樣的年頭完全單極的世界所有政策方向不管贊成或反對都以華盛頓為馬首世界由一個大國帶領	the most distinctive world in the history of the 50 years , all policies , either approval or opposition , washington , d . c . , was led by a big nation .
這不是歷史中常見的事	this is not a common thing in history .
事實上 , 現在在發生的反而是歷史常見	in fact , what's happening now is that it's common in history .
你開始看到多極世界的出現	you start to see multiple worlds emerging .
到目前為止美國擔當著世界的領導角色	up until now , america has been a leader in the world .
未來 , 他仍是最有力的強國而且會在不斷多極化的世界中成為最強	tomorrow , he is still the most powerful nation , and will be the strongest in a world of polarization .
你開始見到其他權力中心冒起中國 , 當然是其中之一雖然個人認為 , 中國的崛起之路不會平順	you start to see china in other power centers , and of course one of them , although it's personal to think that the roads of china won't be smooth .
經濟自由化之後社會開始民主化這將引起不安	after economic liberalization , society begins to democratize , and that leads to disturbance .
但這是另一議題了	but that's another issue .
你看印度、巴西	you look at india , you look at brazil .
你看到世界不斷增加對我們歐洲人來說更像19世紀的歐洲	you see the world increasingly , for us europeans , more like europe in the 19th century .
偉大的大不列顛外交大臣坎寧勳爵經常形容19世紀的歐洲為 " 歐洲權力音樂會 "	the great british diplomat , lord kannin , used to describe the 19th century europe as " european power concert . "
它存在一個五方的平衡	it has a fivesquare balance .
英國常在當中擺動促成它的平衡	the u . k . is usually wobbling in its balance .
如巴黎和柏林聯合時英國便加入另一方的維也納和羅馬	when paris and berlin came together , britain joined vienna and rome on the other side .
現在留意當世界被單一勢力支配時會出現固定的聯盟如:北約組織、華沙公約國	now watch the world as it's dominated by a single force , there's a fixed alliance: the northern organization , the warsaw convention .
一個固定對立的權力即固定的聯盟	a regular opposition of power is a fixed alliance .
但多股對立的權力卻代表聯盟會轉移和不斷改變	but oppositional power means that the union shifts and changes .
這便是我們即將進入的世界在這我們將見到盟國不斷的離合	and that's the world we're about to enter , where we're going to see alliances keep coming together .
大不列顛外交大臣坎寧曾說過 " 英國有共同利益 " 但沒有同盟國	british foreign minister kanning said , " britain has a shared interest , but no allies . "
你將會不斷見到雖然我們身在西方如果我們想在世界上完成任務終究還是要踏出大西洋安逸圈和其它國家結盟	you're going to see it again and again and again , although we're in the west , if we want to finish the task in the world , at the end of the atlantic comfort zone ,
當你進入利比亞 , 要注意西方國家不宜單獨行動我們要與其它國家一起	when you go to libya , notice western countries are not acting independently , we're going to be with other countries .
我們需拉攏阿拉伯聯盟	we need to wrap up the arab league .
我估計伊朗和阿富汗事件將是西方嘗試自行解決的最後一次但沒有成功	i estimated that iran and afghanistan would be the last time the west tried to automatically resolve it , but not succeed .
我估計我們已到達400年興盛的末落之門我說400年 , 因為它是代表西方霸權主義西方制度和西方價值的鄂圖曼帝國的結束	i estimate that we've reached 400 years of thriving end doors , and i say 400 years , because it represents western regimes , the western institutions and the end of the western ottoman empire .
你知道 , 到目前為止 , 如果西方能共同行動它可以在地球任一角落提出和處理	you know , up until now , if the west can move together , it can be presented and treated in any corner of the earth .
但這事實將不會持久	but that's not going to last .
二次大戰後西方聯合起來	after world war ii , the west came together .
佈列敦森林機構、世界銀行、國際貨幣基金組織一起應付金融危機把問題解決	the lindon forest institutions , the world bank , the imf and imf , are working together to tackle the financial crisis .
現在 , 我們要邀請其他國家參與	now , we're going to invite other countries to participate .
我們要建立g20	we're going to build g20 .
我們要跨出西方盟友的安逸圈	we're going to move beyond the comfort of western allies .
讓我來為你作一個預測這可能更令你吃驚	let me give you a prediction , which may surprise you more .
我懷疑我們已經到了400年王國的終點當西方勢力充分出現	i suspect we've reached the end of the kingdom in 400 years , when the west is fully present .
人們對我說 , " 中國 , 當然 , 他們從不參與維持和平行動 , 世界各地多國的維和行動	people said to me , " china , of course , they never participate in peacekeeping , peacekeeping , peacekeeping and actions around the world .
喔是嗎 ? 為什麼呢 ?	oh yeah ? why ?
今日有多少中國軍隊在藍色貝蕾帽和藍旗下服役有多少在聯合國司令部底下服務	how many chinese armies today serve under blue belch and blue flags how much they serve under the bottom of the u . n . commands .
美國呢 ? 11	america ? 11 .
在追擊索馬利亞海盜事件中哪個國家的海軍艦隊規模最大	in somalia pirates , navy vessels were at largest .
是中國海軍艦隊	it's the chinese navy .
當然是中國 , 他們重視商易	of course it's china . they value trade .
要保持海上航道暢通	you have to keep the sailing lanes open .
愈來愈多地 , 我們不得不與一些沒有共同價值觀但在那刻 , 有共同興趣的人通商	increasingly , we have to be with people who don't share values , but at that moment , we have shared interests .
這是一個全新的方式看待今日新興的世界	it's a whole new way of looking at the emerging world today .
接下來 , 第三個完全不同的因素	next , a third ingredient .
今天我們的現代社會因為網際網路因為人們在這裡談論各種事情每件事都互相串聯起來	today , our modern world , because the internet , because people are here to talk about all kinds of things , everything is connected .
人們互相依賴	people are interdependent .
互相連結作為國家 , 個人以一種前所未有的方法連結起來	connecting each other as a country is connected in ways that have never been possible before .
國與國之間的關係呀 , 它總是存在的	it's always there .
外交便是管理國與國之間的邦交	diplomacy is governance and international .
但現在 , 我們親密地鎖在一起	but now , we're intimately locked together .
你在墨西哥染上豬流感24小時後 , 它便成為戴高樂機場的問題	you've got the swine flu in mexico 24 hours later , and it's a problem with the lego airport .
雷曼兄弟倒閉 , 拖垮整個經濟體	lehman brothers fell , dragged the economy .
俄羅斯大草原大火非洲隨之會出現食物騷亂	the russian savannah savannah burning africa appears food chaos .
現在 , 所有人都被層層捆綁環扣	now , all of us are bundled up by layers .
這代表著什麼呢一個國家閉關自守不與人聯絡不與人合作不再是可行的提案	what does it mean for a country to be autistic , to be conservative , to not be collaborative , not to be a viable proposal ?
因為 , 一個國家的行動不再受限於該國本身或他是否有足夠的能力控制他的屬土亦因為國外的影響已開始反過來影響國內	because a nationstate's action was no longer limited to its own or its capacity to control his own territory , and because foreign influences had begun to influence the country .
我年輕時是個軍人曾參與不列顛帝國最後一場小戰事	when i was a young man , i was a soldier participating in the last small war in the british empire .
當時 , 我國的國防只關注一件事 , 一件而已就是我們的陸軍有多強 , 我們的空軍有多強我們的海軍有多強和我們的聯合部隊有多強	at that time , our defense was only paying attention to one thing , just how strong our army was , how strong our air forces were , how strong our navy was , how strong our union army was .
那是敵人在牆外的年代	it's an enemy era outside the wall .
今天 , 敵人己在牆內	today , the enemy is in the wall .
現在 , 如果我要談國防我要去跟衛生部長說因為流行病威脅我們的安全我要去跟農業部長說因為食品安全威脅我們的安全我要跟工業部長說因為我們脆弱的高階科技設施在網路戰爭裡成為敵人的攻擊點我要跟內政部長說因為他們已經進入我們國內住在市中心區的排屋對國內發生的事有直接影響就像倫敦的七七爆炸案	now , if i'm going to talk about defense , i'm going to go to the minister of health and say , because of pandemic threats , i'm going to go to the minister of agriculture and say , because food security is threatening our security , i'm going to talk to the minister of the industry , because they've entered the downtown center of the country and have a direct impact on what's going on inside the bomb .
國家安全已經不再單純是軍隊和國防部長的事	national security is no longer just about the military and the defense minister .
它把所有部門扣連在一起	it connects all the sectors together .
這現象告訴你一些非常重要的	and this tells you something very important .
事實 , 它告訴你我們政府的垂直架構是依工業革命的經濟模式建構部門分工 , 上下分級 , 上令下達的結構已經完全不宜	in fact , it tells you that our government's vertical framework is based on the economic model of the industrial revolution , the building blocks , the upper classes , the structures that make it impossible .
你從商貿裡知道女士先生們 , 我們當前的結構模式 , 是網路	you know from commercial trade that ladies and gentlemen , our current structural pattern , is the internet .
在政府內外結合聯網的能力	the ability to combine the internet within the government .
這便是我的阿什當第三定律	that's my third law .
順道說 , 請別問我有關阿什當第一和第二定律因為我還沒草擬出來第三定律 , 總是比較好聽 , 對嗎 ?	by the way , please don't ask me about the first and second laws of ash , because i haven't grazed the third law , always sounds better , right ?
阿什當第三定律便是現世代每件事都互相關連取決你能幹什麼的最重要因素是你究竟能聯合他人幹些什麼	asham's third law is that modern times , everything is related to each other , and it's the most important factor that you can do something about it that you can actually relate to other people .
不管你是一個政府 , 還是軍團或是一盤生意架構的重點便是你的接入點 , 你的內部連結你和其他人連繫的能力	whether you're a government or a military or a plate of business architecture , it's your port , your interior , your ability to connect with other people .
你從工作中瞭解了這點但政府卻不懂	you know that from work , but the government doesn't understand it .
最後要說一件事	the final thing to say .
如果事情真是這樣 , 女士先生們我們現在正以一種前所未有的方式串連一起也就是說 , 我們有著相同的命運	if that's the case , ladies and gentlemen , we're now serving together in a way that we haven't before , which means we have the same destiny .
突然的 , 第一次的一向認為集體防務確保國家安全的觀念已經不再足夠	and all of a sudden , for the first time , the idea of collective defense , ensuring that the idea of security is not enough .
過去通常如果我的民族比別的民族強 , 我們是安全的如果我的國家比別的國家強 , 我們是安全的我們的聯盟 , 如北約組織 , 比別的聯盟強 , 我們是安全的	oftentimes , if my nations are stronger than ethnic groups , we are safe , and if my country is better than other countries , we are safe , our coalitions , like nato , are stronger than alliances , we are safe .
現在已經不再是這回事	it's not happening anymore .
隨著彼此聯絡的出現和大量殺傷力武器的面世日益意味著我和敵人面對同一處境	as the emergence of communication and weapons of mass destruction grew , it meant that i was in the same place with my enemies .
當我七零年代駐日內瓦做外交官時我們成功與蘇聯達成裁軍協議因為我們明白我們與他們在同一天空下	when i was a diplomat in geneva in the 1970s , we managed to agree with the soviet union , because we realized we were in the same day .
集體安全並不足夠	collective security is not enough .
北愛爾蘭可以達至和平是因為雙方知道零和遊戲不行	northern ireland can reach peace because both sides know that zerosum games are not available .
他們和敵人遭遇相同	they're the same as the enemy .
中東和平的其中一大障礙我想是以色列和巴勒斯坦雙方都不明白他們面對著同一的命運	one of the big hurdles in the middle east peace , i think , israel and both sides of palestine understood the same fate .
女士先生們 , 非常突然地無論是有遠見的智者或敏感細膩的詩人他們都建議我們必須認真視之為公共政策問題	ladies and gentlemen , very suddenly , visionary wise or tiny poets , they all suggest that we must take this seriously as a public policy problem .
我以一首詩開始 , 亦將會以一首詩結束	i'll start with a poem , and i'll end with a poem .
約翰.多恩的偉大詩篇	john doern's great poem .
詩題是《沒有人能獨存》	the poem is " no one can survive on their own . "
詩是這樣寫的	this is how poetry works .
鐘鳴知為誰每個人的離去 , 都影響著同為人的我忐忑未敢問鍾究為誰鳴鍾為故人鳴	the clock knows who is leaving , it affects the same person's stomachs , and i'm struggling to ask who i'm resonating for , who i am .
約翰.多恩-一個道德的推崇者	john doern a moral advocate .
我想 , 對我們來說那只是生存方程式的部分	and i think for us , that's just part of the equation of survival .
為了尋找健康長壽的秘訣 , 丹•比諾與他的研究團隊研究了世界上被稱為 " 藍區 " 的地方 。 在這些特殊地方 , 老年人能活到創紀錄的年齡並且仍然保持活力四射 。 丹比諾在ted分享了九種使得這些老年人年過一百的普通的飲食和生活習慣 。	to find the secret to healthy longevity , dan bino and his team studied the world known as blue zone , where older people live to the age of creation , and still remain active , nine of these older people shared nine ordinary diet and lifestyle habits over a hundred ordinary people .
biology , culture , exploration , food , health , life , science	it's biology , it's gentle , it's life , it's life , it's life .
丹•比諾:如何健康長壽	dan bino: how to live long .
一個叫 " 丹麥雙胞胎 " 的研究表明 , 普通人在生物學允許的限度內的壽命 , 僅僅有百分之十是由我們的基因決定的 。	a study called denmark twins showed that average people in biology allow limits only 10 percent of our genes determine our genes .
另外的百分之九十則取決於我們的生活方式 。	the other 90 percent depends on our lifestyle .
因此 , 對藍區研究的前提是:如果我們能找到長壽的最佳生活方式 , 我們就可以得出一個實際的長壽公式 。	so the premise to the blue area is that if we can find the best way to live longevity , we can come up with an actual longevity formula .
但是 , 如果你問個普通的美國人 , 最佳的長壽公式是什麼 , 他們就有可能答不上來 。	but if you ask a regular american , what's the best longevity equation , they might not come up .
他們也許聽說過南海岸飲食法 , 或者阿特金斯飲食法 。	they may have heard of the south coast eating method , or the atkins diet .
你見過農業部的食物金字塔	you've seen the food pyramid .
奧普拉會這麼說	oprah would say that .
歐茲博士會那麼說©	dr . oz would say that .
但是我們真的很困惑什麼東西才真的能使我們更健康長壽 。	but we're really confused about what really makes us live longer .
你應該跑馬拉松 , 還是練瑜伽 ?	should you run a marathon , or should you practice yoga ?
是該食用有機肉製品呢 ? 還是該吃豆腐 ?	is it food that feeds organic meat , or should be eating tofu ?
需不需要服用滋補品 ,	you don't have to take the supplements .
激素 , 或者白藜蘆醇 ?	hormones , resveratrol ?
還有 , 能否達到食用這些東西的目的 ?	and the purpose of eating these things is , can we eat them ?
我們的信仰呢 ? 我們與他人的交往呢 ? 這些重要嗎 ?	what about our religions , our relationships with others ?
我們找到健康長壽秘訣的研究方法是與《國家地理》雜誌和國家老齡化研究院的研究人員合作©找出四個人口統計學資訊確切的並且有明確的地理界線的地區tm	we found the secret to healthy longevity research by working with researchers at the national geographic magazine and the national aging research institute , and identified four demographics , definitely and definitely geographically lined tm .
然後帶領一組專家到這些地區仔細分析在那裡生活的人們做些什麼提取出跨越文化的健康長壽真諦©	and then bring a group of experts into these areas carefully analyzed what people do there to extract the longevity longevity across cultures .
在我的報告的最後 , 我會揭曉這些真諦©	at the end of my report , i'm going to know what these are .
但首先 , 我想戳穿一些常見的關於長壽的謠言 。	but first , i want to poke some common rumors about longevity .
謠言一:如果你很努力地嘗試 , 你就可以活到一百歲 。	rumor number one: if you try hard , you can live to be 100 .
事實上 , 在美國 , 每五千人中只有一人能活到一百歲	in fact , only one out of every 5 , 000 people in the united states live to be 100 .
你的機會太小了 。	your chances are too small .
儘管現在美國正處與人口增長最快的時期1⁄4活到一百歲仍然還是很困難的	despite the fact that the u . s . is growing the fastest , and it's still very difficult to live to be 100 years old .
問題在於 , 我們人類沒被設為長壽 ,	the problem is , we humans are not expected to live longevity .
只是被預設為需要達到繁衍的成功的狀態	it's just presumably a state of success that needs reproduction .
這個詞棒極了	that's a great word .
讓我回想起我上大學的時候tm	i reminded me of when i went to college , tm .
生物學對生殖成功的定義是tm你有孩子的年齡以及下一代 , 你孩子有他們自己孩子的年齡	the definition of reproductive success is tm , the age of your children , and the next generation , the age of your children .
達到這個年齡後 , 生物遺傳的意義就完全淡化了®	after this age , biological genetics completely desalinate .
不論你是哺乳動物 , 老鼠大象 , 人 , 或是其它 , 道理都一樣	whether you're a mammal , elephant , human , whatever .
所以要活到一百歲 , 你不僅要有一個很好的生活方式 , 你還必須擁有長壽基因的好運	so to live to be 100 , you not only have to have a very good lifestyle , but you also have to have longlived genes .
第二個謠言是 , 擁有能夠幫助我們減緩倒轉甚至阻止衰老的方法	the second rumor is that it helps us to slow down and even stop aging .
說到這 , 有99種可能會使我們老去 。	and speaking of that , there are 99 possibilities that can make us age .
讓大腦缺氧 , 僅幾分鐘就會使得腦細胞死亡並永不能復活	it deprives the brain to oxygen in just a few minutes that causes brain cells to die and never resurrect forever .
過度打網球會損害膝蓋的軟骨你的軟骨永遠不再復原 。	playing tennis ball damages the cartilage of your knee , your cartilage never recovers .
我們的動脈會堵塞 。 大腦會因血小板凝結而得老年痴呆症	our arteries are clogged . our brains get alzheimer's from capillary clotting .
我們體內有35萬億個細胞	we have 3 . 5 billion cells in our bodies .
出問題的可能性太多我們這裡說的是國債數量 。	there's so much possibility that we're talking about here about the debt .
哈哈這些細胞每八年翻轉一次	ha , these cells are flipping every eight years .
每次翻轉都有一些損傷這些損傷	every turn , there's some damage .
以指數性規律成長 。	exponential growth is exponential .
有點像是那段時間裡我們都有披頭士和老鷹樂隊的相簿一樣我們會複製盒式磁帶並讓朋友們也複製很快 , 代代相傳磁帶現在聽起來過時了	it's kind of like during that time , we all had the beatles albums and the eagle bands , and we replicated the box tape and made our friends replicate it very quickly , generations of communications , and now it's going to sound like it's gone .
同樣細胞也是如此 。	and so do the same thing .
這就是為什麼一個65歲的老人的老化速度是一個12歲孩子的125倍	this is why a 65yearold aging rate is 125 times the rate of a 12yearold .
所以如果沒有什麼能夠減緩或停止老齡化我為何還站在這裡	so if there's nothing to slow down or stop aging , why am i standing here ?
事實上 , 最可信的科學表明人類能活 , 我和你們一樣大約九十歲當然 , 女性稍微長一些	in fact , the most believable science suggests that humans can live , that i'm about 90 just like you , and of course , women are a little bit longer .
但是這個國家的平均壽命僅僅78歲	but the average life expectancy in this country is only 78 years old .
距離平均線明顯還差了12年	the average line is clearly 12 years away .
這十二年是我們能得到的 。	twelve years is something we can get .
研究表明這些年主要是免於慢性疾病的年月 , 比如心臟病 , 癌症和糖尿病	studies have shown that these years have been largely prevented from chronic diseases , like heart disease , cancer and diabetes .
我們認為要得到這12年 , 最好的方法是去欣賞全世界的文化並且實地體驗100歲的人居住的地方比我們大十倍的地方的人平均壽命要多12年 。 這個國家的中年人死亡率很低 。	we think that the best way to get these 12 years is to appreciate the cultures of the world and actually experience 100yearolds living in places that are 10 times larger than we are in places where the average life expectancy is 12 years , and the middleaged death rate in this country is low .
我們發現第一個藍區距離撒丁島的義大利海岸大約125英里	we found that the first blue region was about 125 miles from the coast of sardin .
這個島大約有140萬人 , 但是並非分佈於整個島嶼 , 他們只在一個叫怒奧羅的高低上居住	it's an island of about 1 . 4 million people , but it's not distributed throughout the island , and they live at the lowest levels called angleo .
這個區域的人壽命最長逾百歲的人是我們在這裡居住的美國的10倍多	the largest human lifespan in this area is 10 times the size of the united states that we live in here .
這個地方的人不僅活到100歲而且精力異常充沛	this is a place where people not only live to be 100 years old , but they're an abnormal .
活到102歲仍然騎腳踏車工作伐木 , 能打敗小他們60歲的人	living until age 102 , bike logging can beat their 60s .
哈哈他們的歷史追溯到基督時代	ha , their history goes back to the christian times .
是被隔離的青銅時代的文化 。	it's the culture of the bronze age .
因為這塊地如此貧瘠他們大多是牧羊人工作時間穩定 , 體力活動強度低 。	because this land is so poor , most of them are shepherds working steady , physical activity is low .
他們的飲食以素食為主 , 是地裡自產的食物	their diet , the vegetarian diet , is landproduced food .
他們找到了一種未經發酵的全麥麵包那是由硬質小麥和一種食草動物的奶做成的乳酪所以乳酪含有高歐米茄-3脂肪酸而不是食穀類動物奶做成的歐米茄-6脂肪酸乳酪還有一種酒 , 它的多酚含量是世界所有已知酒類所含含量的三倍	they found an unenergized whole wheat bread that was made of hard wheat and a herbivore , and so cheese contains o'mi fatty acids rather than cereal milk , 6 fatty acid , and a type of alcohol , which is three times more thc than all the known alcohol content in the world .
但我認為真正的秘訣多取決於他們社會組成的方式 。	but i think the real secret is more dependent upon the way their society is made .
撒丁島社會里一個最顯著的現象是 , 他們如何對待老人	one of the most significant phenomena in sardin is how they treat old people .
你曾注意過美國的社會平等在大約24歲時達到高峰嗎	have you ever noticed that american societal equality peaked at age 24 ?
來看看這些廣告吧	let's take a look at these ads .
在撒丁島 , 年紀越大享受的平等權就越多 , 被頌揚的才智就越多 。	the more equal rights are enjoyed in sardin island , the more brilliance they are celebrated .
進入撒丁島的酒吧不看體育畫報的泳裝表演日程 , 取而代之的是看每月日曆上的百歲老人	instead of looking at sports swimsuits on a monthly calendar , they were looking at the 100yearold on the calendar .
這個已被證明 , 不僅有益於你的年邁父母使他們更靠近家庭而且傳授大約4到6年的額外壽命 。 研究表明對那些家庭的孩子也很有益因為這些家庭的死亡率和疾病率比較低	this has been shown to not only benefits your elderly parents to get them closer to home , but it's about four to six years of extra life expectancy , and research shows that it's good for those families because they have lower rates of mortality and disease .
那被稱為祖母效應	it's called the grandmother effect .
我們找的第二個藍區在地球另一端離東京南部約800英里在沖繩縣的古拉格島	the second blue region that we're looking for is about 800 miles from southern tokyo on the opposite side of the rope county .
古拉格群島由161個小島組成	the gulaags is made up of 161 small islands .
中心島嶼的北部是世界長壽的起點	the northern part of the central island is the beginning of the longevity of the world .
最長壽的女性就是在這個地方發現的	the longestlived women are found in this place .
這個地方的人是世界上壽命最長的無傷殘人群	this is a place where people are the longest unharmed people in the world .
他們擁有我們渴望的東西	they have what we want .
他們活很久 , 常常在睡覺中死去速度快而且通常是在性行為之後 。	they live long , frequently dying in sleep , often after sex .
他們比普通美國人壽命長7年	they live seven years longer than average american .
是美國百歲老人的5倍	it's five times as old as the age of 100 .
在美國結腸癌和乳腺癌是強大殺手致死率為五分之一	in the us , colon cancer and breast cancer are a fifth of a massive killer .
六分之一死於心血管疾病	one sixth of all dies from cardiovascular disease .
事實上 , 國家產生的這些數量強烈暗示我們有許多要向他們學習的 。	in fact , the numbers that occur in the country very strongly suggest that we have a lot to learn from them .
他們做什麼呢	what do they do ?
還是植物性食物為主綠色蔬菜繁多	it's the plantrich food . it's more green vegetables .
他們是美國人吃豆腐數量的八倍	they're eight times as much tofu as americans eat tofu .
比吃什麼更重要的是如何來吃	it's more important than what we eat .
他們有各種各樣的小策略來杜絕過度飽食眾所周知 , 這在美國是一個大問題	they have all sorts of little strategies to eliminate excessive hunger , which is a big problem in the united states .
我們觀察了幾個策略如下:他們吃飯用較小的盤子 , 所以每次就吃較少的卡路里	here are some strategies we observe: they eat less calories , so they eat less calories each time .
不是家庭型用餐在這種型別的用餐上 , 你會邊聊邊沒意識的吃 , 他們是在吧檯服務 , 把食物拿走然後拿回桌子上	it's not family meals on these individual meals , you're going to be talking about unconscious eating , they're at the table , they're going to take the food away , and they're going to take it back to the table .
他們有一個流傳三千年的諺語 , 我認為是前所未有的最棒飲食建議	they have a saying that spreads 3 , 000 years , and i think it's the best diet suggestion ever .
是孔子提出的 。	it's confucius .
這種飲食就是周知柯羅 , 八術門 , 卜飲食 。	this diet is known as coro , eight slates , diplomas .
吃飯前這些人簡單說一點諺語提醒他們吃到8成飽就停止進食	before dinner , these people simply said , " a little bit of a reminder that they eat 80 percent of the time , they stop eating . "
這種飽腹感要用一個小時才能從肚子到大腦 。	this saturation takes an hour to get from the belly to the brain .
只吃到八成飽能阻止你做出極端的事情	only 80 percent of the saturation can prevent you from doing extreme things .
但是 , 和撒丁島一樣 , 沖繩有很少社會建構能和長壽聯絡起來	but , like sardin island , there are few social construction and longevity contact .
我們知道那次的隔離殺戮	we knew that quarantine killing .
15年前 , 平均每個美國人有三個好朋友	fifteen years ago , the average american had three good friends .
現在僅有一個半	now it's only half .
如果你很幸運生在日本沖繩你就生在了一個自然而然地一生輕易就能擁有四個朋友的地方 。	if you're lucky enough to be born in japan , you're born in a natural place where it's easy to have four friends in your life .
他們稱作魔埃如果你在魔埃碰到好運的話能與人分享饋贈如果運氣糟糕則孩子生病父母死亡總有一個人帶你走 ,	they called magic , and if you had a good luck at magye , you could share feedback with someone , and if you had bad luck , the child had a sick child , and the child's parents would die ,
這個特殊的魔埃 , 這五個女人在一起已經97年了	this particular magic , these five women have been together for '97 .
她們平均102歲	they're 102 years old .
在美國 , 我們把成人壽命分成兩部分	in the united states , we divide adult lifespan into two parts .
一個是工作壽命 , 是我們多產的時間 。	one is work life expectancy , which is our production time .
然後某一天 , 繁榮 , 然後退休 。	and then one day , prosperity and retirement .
這就意味著退到安樂椅上或者去亞利桑那州打高爾夫 。	that means retreating to the amusement chair or going to arizona to play golf .
在沖繩語言裡壓根沒退休這個詞 。	it doesn't retire in the flush language .
而有一個詞卻深嵌在你的一生這個詞叫做 " 生活價值 " 。	and there's a word that is embedded in your lifetime called " life value . "
簡單解釋一下 , 就是 " 你早晨醒來的理由 。 "	simply explaining , " why did you wake up in the morning ? "
對這個102歲的空手道大師來說 , 他的生活價值在武術中實現著 。	for this 102yearold empty master , his life was worth living in the martial arts .
這個百歲漁翁每週還出海為家庭打三次漁 。	this 100yearold fisherman went out every week to make three fishings for his family .
對於這個問題 , 老年研究所給我們做了這些百歲老人的調查問卷 。	for this question , the old graduate institute gave us the investigation of these centenarians .
對其中一個問題 , 他們的文化警惕性很高 , 即是誰提出的問卷 。	for one of these questions , their cultural warnings were high , which is , who asked the questionnaire .
有一個問題是 , " 你的生活價值是什麼 ? "	one question is , " what is your life worth ? "
他們立馬知道早晨為何而醒來 。	they immediately knew why they woke up in the morning .
這個102歲的老人 , 她的生活意義只是她的玄孫女 。	this 102yearold man , her life was just her granddaughter .
這兩個女性年齡差距是101歲半 。	these two women are 101 and a half years old .
我問她養育這個玄孫女感覺怎麼樣 。	i asked her what it felt like to raise this basalt .
她仰著頭說道:真像跳入天堂一般 。	and she looked up and said , " it's like jumping into heaven . "
我認為這是個頂好的想法 。	i think that's a good idea .
我地理學的編輯想讓我找個美國的藍區 。	my editor at geographic gave me a blue zone in the united states .
一時間我們觀察了明尼蘇達草原 , 那裡確實有相當比例的百歲老人 。	at one point we looked at the minnesota grasslands , where there were quite a percentage of centenarians .
但只是因為所有的年輕人都離開了 。	but all the young people left .
哈哈因此 , 我們再次依賴資料 。	so , ha , ha , we rely on data .
我們發現美國最長壽的人群都在星期六耶穌再生派論者當中這些人集中在加利福尼亞州的羅馬琳達及周圍地區 。	we found that the longestlived population of americans concentrated on saturday jesus regenerationists in romalinda and the surrounding area in california .
再生派論者是守舊派人物 。	regeneratives are old guardians .
他們從週五日落到週六日落一直慶祝安息日 。	they celebrated the sabbath from sunset on fridays to sunset .
他們稱為 " 二十四小時至聖時間 " 。	they call it the 24hour to holy time .
並且遵循五種相對而言傳遞給他們的能夠特別長壽的習慣 。	and follow five relatively longevity habits .
在美國 , 女人平均壽命為80歲 。	in the us , life expectancy is 80 years old .
但再生論者的女人 , 平均壽命是89歲 。	but the regenerative woman is 89 years old .
男人之間的差別則更為顯著 , 他們大約比其他美國男同胞多活11歲 。	the difference between men is even more significant , and they live 11 years longer than any other american male .
這項研究是跟隨7萬人大約用了三十年才做出來的 。	this is a study that followed 70 , 000 people for about 30 years .
是一項純正的研究 。 我認為它極好地闡述了對藍區專案的假定 。	it's a purity study , and i think it's very good at illustrating the assumptions about the blue zone project .
這是一個多種族群體 。	this is a multiethnic group .
有白人 , 黑人 , 西班牙人和亞洲人 。	there are white people , black people , spanish and asian people .
他們唯一的共同點是都有一套適當的生活習慣而且一生多半都恪守著這種習慣 。	the only thing they have in common is that they have a proper set of habits , and the number of things that you're doing is that you're doing that all the time .
他們的飲食來自於聖經 。	their diet comes from the bible .
第一章詩節在這一節上帝講豆科蔬菜和種子 , 並且講了一節多的綠色蔬菜 , 基本上忽略肉類 。	the first chapter on this chapter god talks about comic vegetables and seeds and talks about a lot of green vegetables , essentially ignoring the meat .
對待這種聖事 , 他們很嚴肅 。	they're serious about this holy book .
每週有24小時不管多忙 , 工作壓力多大 , 孩子們要在那裡受到鼓舞 , 所以他們放下一切事情只關注上帝 , 在宗教裡 , 他們的社會交際網 , 固定的權利都是對大自然的探索 。	every week , 24 hours a week , no matter how busy , how stressful it is , the kids are inspired there , so they're putting everything on god , and in religion , their social networking , fixed rights are exploring nature .
這能量不是偶然發出而是一生中每週如此 。	it's not an accident ; it's an accident .
沒有難度也沒有花費 。	it's not hard and it's not expensive .
冒險家也想與同行一同去閒逛 。	adventurers also want to hang around with each other .
所以 , 如果你去參加一個冒險者聚會 , 你看不到人們痛飲玉米威士忌或做菸捲	so if you go to an adventurer meeting , you can't see people drinking corn whiskey or smoking tobacco .
他們正討論的是下一次自然大探索 , 交換食譜然後祈禱 。	what they're talking about is the next time nature explores , exchanges recipes and prays .
他們以深刻有策略的方式影響著彼此 。	they influence each other in a profoundly strategic way .
在這種文化中誕生了埃爾斯沃斯	and in this culture , els worth was born .
他活了97歲	he was 97 years old .
是個百萬富翁 , 但是一個承包人想要6000美元建個私人柵欄時 , 他說這點錢我自己搞定 。	it's a millionaire , but when a contractor wants 6 , 000 dollars to build a private barrier , he says i'm financial .
所以接下來的三年他外出鏟水泥到處搬運電杆 。	so for the next three years , he went out and shovled cement everywhere .
正如預想 , 大約在第四天他在手術室去世 。	as it might be , he died in the operating room on the fourth day .
但根本不像手術檯上做心臟直視手術的傢伙 。	but it's not like a guy doing a heart surgery on the table .
到97他仍然每月做20次心臟手術 。	by 97 , he still has 20 cardiac surgeries a month .
愛德羅林斯 , 現103歲 , 是個活潑的牛仔 , 每天早晨游泳 。	edrollings , now age 103 , is a vivid cowboy swim every morning .
週末他喜歡上舞臺拋公雞尾巴符咒	on weekends , he likes to get onstage and throw out the cocktail spell .
她的孫子住在雙子城®	her grandson lives in twin cities .
她每天先練舉重	she practiced weights every day .
然後騎腳踏車 。	and then ride a bicycle .
然後駕著她1994年的啤酒色凱迪拉克塞維利亞駛向聖貝納迪諾高速公路在高速上她是七個不同組織的志願者 。	and then driving her 1994 beer kédia serbia towards san bernardino highway , at high speeds , she was a volunteer for seven different organizations .
我已經經歷了19次遠征 ,	i've gone through nineteen expeditions .
也許是你見到的唯一騎腳踏車穿過撒哈拉沙漠卻沒有曬傷的人 。	maybe the only bike you see going through the sahara desert without sunburn .
但是讓我告訴你 , 沒有比運輸途中擔任馬吉德頓護衛更加讓人頭痛的事情 。	but let me tell you , there's no more headache than a transportation route to maggedton's defense .
她說: " 陌生人是一個我還未見過的朋友 。 "	and she said , " strangers are a friend i haven't met . "
所以 , 這三種文化有什麼共同特性呢 ?	so what do these three cultures have in common ?
他們都有做了什麼事情 ?	what do they all do ?
我們試圖歸結為九點	we're trying to boil down to 9pm .
其實在這次藍區遠征前我們已經調查了兩個藍區	we've actually investigated two blue areas before the blue area is far away .
第一個我想說個異端邪說 , 他們誰都不運動至少是我們認為的運動方式 。	the first one i want to say is that there's a heterogeneous evil that says none of them exercise at least what we
反而建立他們的生活以便常常進行體力夥動 。	instead , building their lives regularly participate .
這些100歲的沖繩女人在地上上來下去 , 每天坐地上30到40次 。	these 100yearold flushes came down on the floor 30 to 40 times a day .
撒丁島人居住在垂直房屋裡 , 上下樓梯	sardin islands live in vertical housing , up and down .
每次去商店 , 教堂或朋友家裡都走上片刻 。	every time you go to a store , every time you go to a church or a friend's house , you go on a moment .
沒有任何方便性 。	no convenience .
做打掃工作和家務沒有按鈕一按則使用 。	cleaning jobs and families without pressing buttons .
如果想做蛋糕 , 就自己動手 。	if you want to make a cake , do it yourself .
這個燃燒的熱量和跑步機上消耗的一樣 。	this burning heat was the same as the treadmill was consuming .
進行慣常體力運動 , 是他們享受這些事情的時候 。 他們常常步行 , 這被證明是防止認知降低的唯一方法 , 並且他們人人有花園 。	regular physical exercise is when they enjoy these things , and it's often proven to be the only way to prevent cognitive decline , and they have gardens .
他們知道如何安排生活因此有正確的觀點 。	they know how to organize their lives in the right way .
每種文化都不慌不忙地變換 。	every culture is busy changing .
撒丁島人祈禱 。 再生論者也祈禱 。	the sardins pray . the regeneratives pray .
沖繩人有祖先祭拜的規約 。	the flusher has regulations for his ancestors .
但是你的匆忙或壓力引發的炎症反應這些都與老年痴呆症和心血管疾病都有關係的 。	but your hurry or stress response to inflammation is associated with alzheimer's and cardiovascular disease .
每天減緩行動15分鐘這種炎症就能變成一種反炎症狀態 。	this inflammation can become antiinflammation for 15 minutes a day .
沖繩人把這個目的感叫做有意義的生活 。	the flusher calls this purpose a meaningful life .
一個人一生中最危險的兩年一是出生的時候 , 因為嬰兒死亡率高另外就是退休的時候	one of the most dangerous two years of a person's life is when they're born because of infant mortality rates , when they're retired .
這些人知道他們的生活目的感他們生活活躍 , 能有7年的額外壽命 。	these people know what their purpose is for their lives to be active and have seven extra years to live .
沒有長壽食品	there's no longevity food .
這些人每天就喝一點酒 , 酒是不用強行賣給美國人的 。	these people drink a little every day , and wine doesn't have to sell it to americans .
哈哈他們常吃蔬菜食品	ha , they eat vegetables all the time .
不是說不吃肉但是吃很多豆類和堅果 。	it's not that you don't eat lots of beans and nuts .
他們有辦法避免飲食過量 , 幾乎沒有什麼能把他們推向餐桌 。	they were able to avoid overeating , almost nothing that would push them to the dinner table .
這些的根本是他們如何聯絡 。	it's essentially how they contact .
把家庭放在第一位 , 照顧孩子和年邁的父母 。	putting families first , caring for the children and the aged parents .
他們的社群建立在誠信基礎上 , 這個能增加4到14年的生命 。 當然 , 你一月至少要做四次才可以 。	their community is based on the belief basis of integrity , and it will increase the life of four to 14 years , and of course , you have to do at least four times in january .
這裡最重要的事情是他們屬於一個正義的群體 。	the most important thing here is that they belong to a just community .
他們或者生在正義之家或者是主動和正義之士呆在一起 。	they're born in a justice house or in an active and justice house .
從弗雷明翰研究中我們得知如果你有三個好朋友都肥胖你也有一半肥胖的可能 。	we know from the fremingham studies that if you have three good friends who are obese , you're half obese .
所以如果你和不健康的人在一起隨時間推移會受到很大影響 。	so if you're together with unhealthy people , it's going to be a huge impact .
如果你朋友娛樂的主意是體力活動 , 打保齡球或打曲棍球腳踏車或園藝工作 , 他們飲酒適量飲食適度 , 他們投入工作值得信任 , 最後就會對你產生最大影響 。	if your friend's entertainment is the idea of physical activity , playing bowling or playing hockey bikes or gardening , they drink adequately for diet , they invest trustworthy jobs , and they end up having the biggest impact on you .
食物沒有什麼用 , 歷史上沒有一種食物能養活2%的人口 。	there's nothing to use for food , there's no food in history that feeds two percent of the population .
練習專案通常在一月開始十月結束 。	practice projects often end in january .
至於長壽 , 沒有藥片或其他什麼東西能在短期內奏效 。	as for longevity , there's no pill or anything that can be done in the short term .
但當你想到你的朋友是長期的冒險活動時 , 因此 , 它是你為增加壽命和讓生命生機勃勃能夠做的最重要的事情謝謝	but when you think about your friends as the longterm adventures , therefore , it's the most important thing you can do to increase your lifespan and keep life alive .
能導電的墨水、一<unk>開關就由透明變不透明的窗戶、能播放音樂的果凍--這些東西確實存在 。 catarinamota說:現在是時候嘗試他們了 。 mota將帶領我們認識這些新穎和神奇的材料 , 她說 , 弄清楚這些材料的神奇之處的最好方式就是用它們來做實驗 , 不斷嘗試並樂在其中 。	the ink that conducts electricity , the comfort of it , the transparent windows , the frozen frozen that play music , actually exists . catari mota says it's time to try them now . mota will take us to understand these novel and magical materials , and she says , the best way to make sense of these materials is to try and experiment with them and try and experiment with them .
creativity , design , technology	it's ivity , it's serious .
catarinamota:玩轉智慧材料	catarina mota: play with smart materials .
我有一位葡萄牙朋友 , 其祖父用一輛腳踏車和一臺洗衣機改裝成一輛汽車供家人乘用 。	i have a friend in portugal whose grandfather used a bicycle and a washing machine to convert it into a car for multiplication .
他這樣做 , 一是因為他買不起車 , 但更重要的是因為他知道如何改裝汽車 。	he did it because he couldn't afford a car , but more importantly because he knew how to modify it .
曾經 , 我們都懂得一些機械的工作原理 , 也知道它們是怎麼製造出來的 , 所以我們能夠自己製作和維修它們.或者至少基於我們的瞭解作出明智的購買決定 。	at one point , we've all understood some mechanical work principles and know how they were made , so we can make and fix them ourselves , or at least based on our understanding of making smart purchases .
但我們很多這些diy的實用性技能在20世紀的下半葉就流失了 。	but a lot of these diy practical skills were lost in the lower part of the 20th century .
但是現在 , 製作者社群和開放資源模式正在把這些物品的工作原理和製造材料的知識帶回到我們的生活中 。 而且我相信我們需要把這些知識帶到下一個層面 , 也就是了解構成這些物品的元件 。	but now , the maker community and the open source model is bringing the principles and the knowledge of the objects back to our lives , and i believe we need to take that knowledge to the next level , the components that understand these things .
我們很多人都知道 , 像紙和織物這樣的傳統材料是什麼做成的 , 以及它們是如何生產的 。	many of us know what traditional materials like paper and fabrics are made of , and how they're made of .
但是現在我們有了一些令人驚歎的未來複合材料-如可以變形的塑膠、可以導電的油漆、可以變色的顏料和可以發光的織物 。	but now we have some amazing future composite materials such as deformable plastics , conductive paint , transformable pigments and glowing fabrics .
下面讓我們來看一些新材料 。	so let's look at some new materials .
這種導電墨水可讓我們 , 拋棄傳統的印刷電路板或電線的方法而直接用導電墨水來畫電路板 。	this conductive ink allows us to throw away traditional printed circuit boards or wires and draw circuit boards directly .
比如我手裡拿著的這個小裝置 , 是我們用導電墨水做成一個觸控性的感測器 , 一旦接觸人的皮膚 , 這個小燈就會亮起 。	so this little device that i'm holding in my hand is we're using conductive ink to make a touch sensor , and once it's in contact with the skin , this little light light will light up .
導電墨水已經被藝術家們應用到創作中了 , 最新的進展表明我們很快就能把它應用在鐳射印表機和鐳射筆中.	conductive ink has been applied to the artists , and the latest progress has been shown that we can apply it to a laser printer and a laser laser .
這是一張泡浸過無色光漫顆粒丙烯酸的紙.	this is a piece of paper that was bathed in colorless comic books .
只浸過普通丙烯酸的紙只在其邊緣周圍有漫光現象 , 而這張浸過無色光漫顆粒丙烯酸的紙 , 當我們開燈時漫光會照亮整張紙.	there's only a phenomenon that's bathed in normal acrylic acid , and this is a phenomenon that's surrounding it , and this is bathed with colorless odds of acrylanine , and as we drive the light , the light will light up the entire paper .
就目前所知 , 這種材料已經被應用到室內設計和多點觸控系統兩個領域中了 。	as far as we know , this material has been used indoor design and multiple touch systems .
而熱變色顏料在特定的溫度下會改變顏色 。	and thermal pigments change color at certain temperatures .
我先把這張東西放到一個電熱板上溫度設定比外界溫度稍高一點然後你可以看到發生了什麼.	i'm going to put this thing on a board that's a little bit hotter than the outside world , and you can see what's going on .
除了其它用途 , 這種材料主要用作嬰兒奶瓶的製造 。 它能告訴你什麼時候瓶裡的東西涼到可飲用的溫度 。	in addition to other uses , this material is primarily used for baby bottles , and it tells you when things are cold and drinkable .
這些就是我們通常所說的 " 智慧材料 " 的幾個例子 。	these are a few examples of what we usually call smart materials .
幾年內 , 它們將被應用到很多我們日常使用的物件和科技產品上 。	in a few years , they're going to be applied to a lot of the objects and technological products that we use every day .
我們也許還不會有科幻小說向我們保證的飛行汽車 , 但是我們能擁有隨溫度變色的牆 , 可以捲起來的鍵盤 , 和一<unk>開關就變不透明的窗戶 。	we may not yet have science fiction flying vehicles to our guarantee , but we can have walls that change temperature , keyboards that can curl up , and light , shimming opaque windows .
我是科班出身的社會科學家 , 為什麼今天我在這裡講智慧材料 ?	i'm a social scientist from the kuban , and why am i talking about smart materials today ?
首先 , 我是個製造者 。	first of all , i'm a maker .
我對於東西如何運轉和怎樣製作有好奇心 , 我也相信我們應該對我們這個世界的組成材料有更深的瞭解 , 並且現在 , 我們對於這些構成我們未來的高科技材料瞭解不多 。	i'm curious about how things work and how they make things , and i also believe that we should know much more about the materials that make up our world , and we don't know much about these hightech materials that make up our future .
要獲得少量的智慧材料是很難的 。	it's hard to get a small amount of smart material .
有關如何使用這些材料的資訊也很少 , 它們是如何製作的資訊就更加少得可憐 。	there's very little information about how to use these materials , and there's less information about how to make them .
目前 , 它們絕大多數都存在於貿易機密和專利中 , 只有大學和大公司才能得到 。	currently , most of them are in trade secrets and patents , only universities and big companies can achieve them .
所以三年多以前 , 我和kirstyboyle發起了一個叫做openmaterials的專案 。	so more than three years ago , i started a project called open maternals with kirstyboyle .
在那個網站上 , 我們和想要加入我們的任何人 , 分享實驗 , 釋出資訊 , 鼓勵其他人為此作出力所能及的貢獻 , 並且收集像研究論文和像我們一樣的製造者所製作的教程一類的資源 。	on that website , we share experiments with anyone who wants to join us , release information , encourage others to make a contribution to this , and collect resources like research papers made by producers like us .
我們希望把這一網站做成一個大規模的、集體生成的資料庫 , 蒐集用智慧材料diy的資訊 。	we want to make this website a database of massive , collectively produced data collections that are using smart materials diy .
但是我們為什麼要關心智慧材料是如何工作和它們是用什麼來製造的呢 ?	but why should we care about how smart materials work and what they're made of ?
首先 , 因為我們無法影響我們不理解的東西 , 我們不理解和不會用的東西還會反過來影響我們 。	first of all , because we can't influence things that we don't understand , things that we don't understand and don't use are affecting us .
我們使用的東西 , 我們穿的衣服 , 我們住的房子 , 都對我們的行為、健康和生活質量上產生深遠的影響 。	the things we use , the clothes we we wear , the house we live in , have a profound impact on our behavior , our health and our quality of life .
所以如果我們將要生活在一個由智慧材料構成的世界中 , 我們就應該知道並瞭解它們 。	so if we're going to live in a world made of smart materials , we should know and understand them .
第二 , 同樣重要地 , 創新總是來源於修補匠 。	secondly , just as importantly , innovation always comes from fixers .
很多時候 , 是業餘愛好者而非專家 , 發明和改進了諸如山地車、半導體、個人電腦、甚至飛機 。	oftentimes , amateurs instead of experts , inventions and improvements like mountain vehicles , semiconductors , personal computers , even airplanes .
材料科學的最大挑戰是它的複雜性 , 以及對昂貴的儀器的需求 。	the biggest challenge of material science is the complexity and the need for expensive instruments .
但事實並非總如此 。	but that's not always the case .
伊利諾伊大學的兩名科學家在他們發表一篇關於用更簡便的方法制作導電墨水的論文時就明白了這個道理 。	two scientists at the university of illinois published a paper on making conductive inks easier .
jordanbunker在這一實驗之前是一個沒有任何化學經驗的人 。 他讀了這篇論文後在他的工作間裡用現成的物質和工具重複了這個實驗 。	jordan bonker was a person who didn't have any chemistry experience before this experiment , and he read this paper and repeated it with the existing materials and tools in his workshop .
他用了一個烤箱 , 而且他甚至在另一個科學家/製造者的教程的基礎上自制了旋渦混合器 。	he used an oven , and he even organized a vortex mixer on the basis of another scientist/maker’s teaching .
後來 , jordan在網上發表了他的實驗結果 , 包括所有他試過的沒成功的東西 , 這樣其他人可以學習然後複製這一實驗 。	later , jordan published his experiments online , including all the unsuccessful things he tried so that others could learn and replicate this experiment .
所以jordan主要創新方式是拿一個在設施齊全的大學實驗室裡創造的實驗 , 然後在芝加哥的一個車庫裡用便宜材料和自制的工具來重複實驗 。	so jordan's main innovation was to take an experiment that was created at the university laboratory and repeat it in a garage in chicago using cheap materials and autonomous tools .
在他發表的實驗結果基礎上 , 其他人可以接著做下去並且設計甚至更簡單的步驟和改進實驗 。	on the basis of the results that he published , others can then do and design even simpler steps and improvement experiments .
我想分享的另外一個例子她專案的目標是在突出材料富有表現力的特質的同時專注於製造者的創造力和製造技巧 。	another example i want to share with you is that her project targets to highlight the quality of materials while focusing on the creativity and the manufacturing skills of makers .
電子工具在教我們東西如何運轉這方面非常有力 , 但是它們設計中傳承下來的約束影響我們學習的方式 。	the electrical tools are very powerful in teaching us how things work , but the restrictions that they've inherited in their designs have influenced the way we learn .
所以hannah的方法 , 在另一方面 , 就是創制一系列的技術 , 來創造非常規的東西 , 透過教給我們材料本身的知識 , 把我們從事先設計好的約束中解放出來 。	so hannah's method , on the other hand , is to create a series of techniques to create very regulated things , to free us from the constraints that we've been preemptively designed .
在hannah眾多令人欽佩的試驗中 , 這個是我的最愛之一 。	this is one of my favorite experiments in hannah's many admirable experiments .
[ " 會說話的紙 " ]我們在這裡看到的只不過是一張紙上面的銅帶連線著一個mp3播放器和一塊磁鐵 。	[ " speech paper " ] what we're seeing here is just a piece of copper connected to a piece of paper with an mp3 player and a magnet .
在麻省理工學院教授marcelocoelho研究的基礎上 , hannah使用各種材料創造了一系列紙質揚聲器 。 從普通的銅帶到導電的織物和墨水 ,	on the basis of marcelocoelho research at mit , hannah used various materials to create a series of paper speakers , from ordinary copper to conductive fabrics and inks .
就像jordan和其他很多製造者一樣 , hannah發表了她的配方並且允許任何人來重複這些實驗 。	like jordan , like so many other makers , hannah released her recipe and allowed anyone to come and repeat these experiments .
但是紙上電子是材料科學中最有前景的分支之一 , 因為它讓我們能創造出便宜又靈活的電子產品 。	but electronics on paper is one of the most promising branches of material science , because it allows us to create cheap , flexible electronics .
所以hannah的手工作品 , 和她分享了她的發現這個事實 , 打開了一扇門 , 通向兼具美學和創新的一系列新的可能 。	so hannah's handwork , she shared her discovery with her , opened a door to a new array of possibilities for both aesthetic and innovation .
製造者的有趣之處在於我們創造是出於熱情和好奇 , 並且我們不害怕失敗 。	what's interesting about makers is that we create passion and curiosity and we're not afraid to fail .
我們通常從非傳統的角度處理問題 , 並且 , 在這個過程中 , 最終發現其他方案或者更好的方法 。	we often deal with problems from an unconventional perspective , and in the process , we end up discovering other alternatives or better ways .
所以當更多的人願意用新材料做試驗的時候 , 更多的研究者就會願意分享他們的研究成果 ; 有更多的製造商分享他們的知識 , 我們就會有更好的機會來創造造福我們所有人的科技 。	so when more people are willing to do experiments with new materials , more researchers will be willing to share their work ; more manufacturers will share their knowledge , and we will have a better chance to create technology that benefits all of us .
我的感覺有一點像tednelson在70年代初期的感覺一樣 , 他寫道 , " 你們現在必需懂電腦 。 "	i felt a little bit like tednelson in the early '70s , and he wrote , " you need to understand computers now . "
那個時候 , 電腦是這些只有科學家關心的大型機 , 沒有人會夢想到放一臺在家裡 。	at that time , computers were these big opportunities that scientists cared about , and nobody would dream of putting in a home .
所以我今天站在這裡說 " 你們現在必需懂智慧材料 " 有一點奇怪 。	so i'm standing here today saying , " you need to understand smart materials a little bit strange .
請記住對於新興科技擁有先發制人的知識是確保我們在對未來的創造中有發言權的最好方式 。	keep in mind that primary knowledge of emerging technologies is the best way to ensure that we have a voice in the creation of the future .
當我們開車是 , 我們就坐進了一個玻璃氣泡中 , 鎖上門 , 踩下油門 , 依靠眼睛為我們自己導航 。 即使我們僅僅只能看見車前車後的幾輛車 。 但是假如汽車能互換關於位置、速度的資料 , 並運用預測模型來為每一位司機測算最安全的線路呢 ? 詹妮佛海麗構想了一個零車禍的世界 。	when we drive the car , we sit in a glass bubble , lock the door , step down the gas gate and navigate ourselves , even though we only see a few cars behind the car , but if the car exchange information about position , speed and use models to predict the safest route to measure each one of the drivers ?
詹妮弗海麗:汽車若能交流車禍或可避免	jennifer halley: cars can communicate accidents or inevitably .
讓我們來面對一樁事實吧開車是一件危險的事	let's face it: driving is a dangerous thing .
它是我們不願意去想的事物之一但事實上那些神像和平安符世界各地都有人把它們擺在儀表盤的上方這就無意中透露出一個我們都心知肚明的事實	it's one of the things that we don't want to think about , but in fact , those divine and peaceful meetings around the world are putting them on top of the dashboard , which inadvertently reveals a fact that we all know .
車禍是死亡的主因尤其在美國16到19歲的美國人群中死亡的主因並且百分之七十五的車禍都與毒品和酒精無關	car accidents are the cause of death , especially in the united states between the ages of 16 and 19 , and 75 percent of all car accidents have nothing to do with drugs and alcohol .
沒人能給出確切答案但我記得我第一次出車禍	no one could give the exact answer , but i remember the first time i got in a car accident .
我當時還是個開車的新手 , 當時正在外面高速路上開著車 。 我突然看見我前面汽車的剎車燈亮了	i was a new driver , and i was driving outside on the highway , and all of a sudden i saw the brake light in front of me .
我當時想好吧他減速了那我也減速好了	and i thought , okay , he's slowing down , and i'm slowing down .
我踩了剎車	i stepped on the brakes .
但是我前面那個人並不是在減速	but the person in front of me wasn't slowing down .
他停車了突然停車在高速路上突然停車	he stopped and suddenly stopped on the highway , and suddenly he stopped car
速度從65邁瞬降到0	from 65 to 0 .
我猛踩剎車	i slammed on the brakes .
我當時感覺到我的車的防抱死系統啟動了但車還在行駛並沒停下來的意思我也知道我的車停不了了安全氣囊也鼓了起來車報廢了但幸運的是沒有人受傷	i felt that my car's hugging system was starting , but the car was still driving and didn't stop , and i knew that my car stopped , and the airbags were getting rid of it , and fortunately nobody was injured .
但我根本不知道我前面那輛車要停而且我想我們可以比那做得更好	but i didn't even know that the car was going to stop in front of me , and i thought we could do better than that .
我想我們透過實現 " 讓汽車之間對話 " 來改變我們的駕駛體驗	i think we can change our driver's experience by making car conversation .
我希望你們能思考片刻思考一下現在的駕駛體驗是怎麼樣的	i want you to think about what the experience of driving is like for a moment .
坐進車裡關上車門你就已經置身在一個玻璃氣泡中	you're sitting in your car and closed the door , and you're already in a glass bubble .
你不能直接感受到你周圍的世界	you can't just feel the world around you .
因為你坐在車這樣一個不小的空間裡	because you're sitting in a space like this .
你的任務就是導航你只能看見道路的一部分並且以超人類的速度行駛在其他的 " 金屬巨人 " 間	your task is to navigate , and you can only see the road , and drive at superhuman speeds , at other metal giants .
對吧 ? 你只能靠雙眼來導航	right ? you can navigate by your eyes .
對你別無他法眼睛並非是用來幹著活兒的但是有些事情你就必須得做 , 比方說 , 你想換個車道那你第一件要做的事是什麼	there's no other way for you to do it , but there's something that you have to do , like , you want to change lanes , and what you do the first thing you do .
將眼睛從車道上移開對	remove the eyes from the driveway .
將目光從你前進的方向移開轉彎檢查一下盲點然後就一直開根本不注意自己在往哪裡開	turn your eyes from the direction you're moving , check the blind spot , and keep track of where you're heading .
所有人都這麼做這是安全的駕駛方式	all of us do that , and that's a safe way to drive .
我們為什麼這麼做 ? 因為我們別無選擇我們必須作出一個抉擇是朝這兒看還是朝那兒看	why do we do this ? because we have no other choice .
我們通常都做得很好能夠很好的選擇我們要往哪個方向開	we tend to be very good at choosing which direction we're going to go .
但是偶然我們也會忘記一些事情	but occasionally we will forget a few things .
有時當我們發覺有些東西出了問題的時候已經為時過晚 。	sometimes when something's gone wrong , it's too late .
在無數的車禍中司機都會說 " 我沒想到會這樣 。 "	in countless crashes , the driver says , " i didn't expect that . "
我相信他們的話我相信	i believe in their words .
我們看到的只有這麼多而已	we only see that much .
但是現存的科技可以幫我們改善這一點	but the technology that exists can help us improve this .
在未來車與車之間可以交換資料我們就不僅只能看見前面的三臺車了還能看見後面的三臺車 , 左邊的 , 以及右邊車 。 同時看見鳥瞰視野我們可以看見這些車的內部	we can exchange data between the car and the car in the future , not only can we see the three cars in front of us , but the three cars in the back , the ones on the left , and the car on the right , and we can see the bird'seye view , and we can see inside the car .
我們可以看到我們前面那輛車的速度看看前面那位什麼時候會啟動或停下	we can see the velocity in front of us to see when the car is switching or shutting down .
假如那人的速度突然降到零 , 我就能知道了 。	if that person goes to zero suddenly , i can see .
利用運算代數以及預測模型我們能看見未來	using algorithms and predictive models , we can see the future .
你可能會覺得這是不可能的	you might think it's impossible .
你怎麼能預測未來呢太難了	how can you predict the future ?
事實上不難對於汽車來說這並非不可能	in fact , it's not impossible for cars .
汽車是三維物體位置速度都是固定的	automobiles are threedimensional object positions at a fixed rate .
行使在路上的時候	it's time to go down the road .
它們通常都是按照預先規劃好的道路行駛	they're usually preprogrammed roads .
未來想要預測汽車將要駛向什麼方向對之作出合理的預測並不困難	it's not that hard to predict what cars are going to drive in the future .
即使你在自己的車裡突然出現了一個開著摩托的人砰 ! 時速85英里 , 跟你搶車道我知道你們曾經有過這樣的經歷那個開摩托的並非憑空出現	even if you've suddenly appeared in your car a motor pop ! it's 85 miles an hour , rolling your driveway , i know you've had that experience , and it's not coming out of the air .
他可能之前的半小時就一直在路上開著吧	maybe half an hour before him was on the road .
對吧 ? 我的意思是 , 有人看見過他	right ? i mean , somebody's seen him .
在10 , 20 , 30英里前 , 有人看見過他 , 只要一輛車看見那個人將他的資訊置入地圖中 , 他的位置就會顯示在地圖上了位置 , 速度預測他將保持85英里的時速	at 10 , 20 , 30 miles ago , someone had seen him , and just one car saw the person putting his information into the map , his position would show up on the map and predict where he would be at 85 miles an hour .
那你就知道了 , 因為你的車就會知道了 , 因為其他的車已經悄悄把這件事告訴它了打個比方 , " 告訴你一聲 , 五分鐘之後會出現個開摩托的 , 注意 。 "	and you know , because your car will know , because the other cars have been quietly telling it , " tell you a loud , five minutes later , there's a motorcycle , pay attention . "
你可以對汽車的運動作出合理的預測 。	you can make reasonable predictions about the motion of the car .
它們可是遵從牛頓力學的物體	these are things that are newtonian mechanics .
這是它們的優點	that's their strength .
那麼我們怎麼樣才能做到這一點呢	so how can we do that ?
我們可以從簡單的開始比如在車輛間共享位置資料只需要共享gps	we can start simple things like sharing data between vehicles just by sharing gps .
假如我的車內裝有gps和攝像頭我就能清楚地知道自己的位置自己的速度	if i had gps and cameras in my car , i could clearly see where i was .
那麼利用電腦視野 , 我就可以預測我周圍的車大概在哪裡 , 他們在向哪個方向前進	so using the computer perspective , i can predict where the cars around me are , which direction they're heading .
其他的車也是一樣	the same is true of other cars .
他們也能知道自己的準確位置並且大致知道其他車的位置	they also know where they are and they know roughly where the other cars are .
假如兩車共享資料的話會發生什麼呢 ? 假如他們實現彼此對話又會發生什麼呢 ?	what would happen if two cars shared the data if they achieved their conversations ?
我可以很明確的告訴你答案	i can tell you the answer very clearly .
王鮑勃教授和他的團隊做了個電腦模擬系統來研究當我們結合不同的模糊預測的時候會發生什麼即使只是在交通情況通暢、汽車僅僅共享gps資料時之後我們讓這項研究不僅限於電腦模擬我們還用機器人測試床它們用到的感測器正是當下汽車裡真正在用到的感測器在這些機器人上有立體相機gps二位鐳射測距儀這些都是備用系統中非常常見的	professor bob and his team have made a computer simulation system to study what happens when we combine fuzzy predictions , even though only in the transport situation , and only in the sharing gps data , we have made this research not just in the computer simulations , but we also use robotic beds testing sensors , which are actually using sensors in these robots that have threedimensional camera laser ii systems that are very common .
我們再安裝一個離散短距離無線電實現機器人間的通話	we then installed a distance from the radio that makes the communication between the robot .
當這些機器人遇見彼此時它們能夠準確地追蹤彼此的位置並可躲避彼此	when these robots meet each other , they can accurately track where they are and avoid each other .
我們現在正在向這樣的混合系統中新增更多的機器人我們也遇到了一些問題	we're now adding more robots to these mixing systems , and we've got some problems .
問題之一就是當 " 悄悄話 " 太氾濫就很難處理所有的資訊所以你必須抓重點在這樣的情況下預測模型就可以派上用場了	one of the problems is that when the silent whisper is too profound , it's very difficult to process all of the information , so you have to grasp the focus of the predictive model and make it work .
假如你的機器人機器正在追蹤所有已預測的軌跡那麼你就不用花費太多的精力去關注那些了	if your robotic machine is tracking all predicted trajectories , then you don't have to pay much attention to them .
你可以將重心放在某臺看上去有些偏離航向的車上	you can put a focus on a car that looks a little bit off sailing .
那臺車可能是一個隱患	it could be a hidden car .
那你就可以預測新的路線	and then you can predict new routes .
這樣你不僅知道了它正在偏離航向你還知道了它是怎樣偏離的	and not only are you aware that it's sailing towards you , but you also know how it's deviated .
而且你還能知道你該提醒哪些司機注意躲避	and you also know which drivers you should remind you to pay attention to evasion .
我們一直也想這麼做可是怎樣提醒他人才好呢	we've been trying to do that all the time , but how do we remind other people of talent ?
車怎麼可能悄悄給彼此送信說 " 你得躲一躲 "	how could the car whisper to each other and say , " you have to hide . "
這個取決於兩件事第一汽車的能力第二司機的能力	it depends on the ability of two things , the ability of the first car , the second driver .
假如一個人的車超棒但他在打電話或者 , 你懂得 , 開開小差那他可能狀態不佳在面對緊急情況的時候措手不及	if a person's car is awesome , but he's calling , or you know , driving a little difference , he's probably not good at dealing with an emergency .
所以我們開展了一條獨立的研究線路司機狀態模型	so we launched an independent research route state model .
我們利用一系列三個攝像頭我們可以監測這個司機是在向前看向邊上看向下看打電話還是喝咖啡	we use a series of three cameras , and we can monitor the driver looking forward , looking down , looking down , looking down , looking at the phone , drinking the coffee .
我們能預測車禍我們可以預測哪些司機哪些車能夠最快的離開將要出現事故的路線為每個人算出最安全的線路	we can predict the accidents , we can predict which drivers will be able to get out the fastest of which cars will appear to be calculated the safest route for everyone .
最根本的一點這些技術現在已經成為了現實	the fundamental thing is that these technologies have now become reality .
我認為我們面臨的最大的問題就是我們自己是否願意分享自己的資料	i think the biggest problem that we face is whether we're willing to share our data .
我認為這是一個非常令人不安的想法設想我們自己的車將要監視著我們跟其他的車分享我們的一舉一動那樣我們就像開車穿過對我們指指點點的人群	i think it's a very disturbing idea that our own cars are going to be watching us and sharing our action with other cars , and that we're driving through , sort of , people pointing to us .
但我想這件事可以在保護我們隱私的情況下成功就像現在一樣當我在外面看向你的車的時候我並不能真正的瞭解你	but i think it works to protect our privacy in the same way that now , when i look out at your car , i can't really understand you .
當我看你的車牌號碼時我並不能知道你是誰	when i look at your brand number , i can't tell who you are .
我覺得我們的車完全能在我們的背後談論我們	i think our cars can talk about us completely behind us .
而且我認為這是一件非常好的事	and i think it's a very good thing .
我希望你們能思考片刻假如你真心不想讓開在你後面的心不在焉的年輕人知道你要停車你要突然剎車的話	i want you to think about the moment , if you really don't want to have the mind behind you , the teens behind you know that you're going to park , you're going to suddenly brake .
透過自願分享我們的資料我們可以實現人人共贏	by volunteering to share our data , we can actually achieve our own wins .
所以讓你的車 " 八卦 " 你吧	so gossip your car .
這會讓我們的道路更安全	this will make our roads safer .
xprize創始人peterdiamandis講述如何幫助史蒂芬霍金先生進入大氣層體驗零重力來實現霍金先生進入宇宙空間的夢想 。	peter diamandis , founder x prize , talked about how to help mr . stephen hawking go into the atmosphere and experience zero gravity to realize mr . hawking's dream into the universe .
business , flight , science , shorttalk , space , technology , universe	and light , light light , and , you know , you know , you know , you know , you're going to be there , you're going to be there .
peterdiamandis幫助史蒂芬霍金體驗零重力	peter diamandis helped steven hawking experience zero gravity .
認識我的人可能都知道我對探索空間新領域充滿了激情	now , those of you who know me know me know that i'm passionate about discovery .
我有一個機會給世界上最偉大的重力學專家一次體驗零重力的機會 , 很讓人難以置信	i had an opportunity to give one of the greatest gravitational experts in the world , an incredible opportunity to experience zero gravity .
現在我想講給大家這個故事	now i want to tell you this story .
我第一次見到他是在阿康艾克斯基因研究大獎上	i met him for the first time at the aka genomics prize .
那是一個我們組織的比賽 。 第二屆艾克斯基因研究大獎頒發給第一個在10天內把一百位人類基因組排序小組 。	it was a competition for our tissue , and the second edx genomics prize was awarded to sequence 100 human genomes in the first 10 days .
我們管他們叫基因100那是一百位我們排序的不同的人	we call them 100 that's 100 different people that we sequenced .
當時是craigventer主持的會議	it was craig venter .
我遇到了霍金教授他說他的夢想是空間旅行	i met professor hawking , and he said his dream was spatial travel .
我說 , 我不能帶你到那兒去但是我可以讓你體驗失重的狀態	i said , i can't take you there , but i can let you experience weightlessness .
他說 , 太好了 , 當然可以	and he said , " great , sure . "
那麼 , 在地球上體驗零重力的唯一方法就是用拋物線飛行來體驗	now , the only way to experience zero gravity on earth is by flying parabolas .
你坐在飛機上 , 飛到最高處的時候你大概能體驗25秒	you're sitting on an airplane , flying at the top , and you're probably going to experience 25 seconds .
然後下來 , 你體重會加倍	and then you go down , and you double your weight .
然後如此反覆	and then it goes back and forth .
你最多可以體驗八次10分鐘的無重力狀態那是nasa一直用來訓練他們航天員的辦法	you can experience eight minutes of zero gravity , and that's how nasa has been able to train their astronauts .
我們就計劃這麼做了	so that's what we plan to do .
我們花了11年時間才使得計劃成功	it took us 11 years to make it work .
當我們宣佈我們要跟史蒂芬霍金一起飛的時候	when we announced we were flying with stephen hawking .
我們有個政府部門和一位公司的飛行員說你們瘋了麼 ? 別啊 , 你們會要了他的命的	we have a government department and a company pilot says you're crazy ?
但是他很想去	but he wanted to go .
我們經過很多努力才得到了許可	we've done a lot of work to get permission .
6個月後 , 我們在肯尼迪航天中心坐下來	six months later , we sat down at the kennedy space center .
我們舉行了一個記者會我們宣佈說我們準備做一次零重力拋物線飛行讓他體驗25秒的零重力	we held a journalist , and we announced that we were going to fly a zero gravitational parabola so he could experience zero gravity for 25 seconds .
如果一切順利的話 , 我們可能會做三次	if everything worked well , we could do three times .
我們其實問了霍金先生為什麼想上去做這件事	we actually asked mr . hawking why he wanted to do this .
他說的話讓我很感動	and i was so moved by what he said .
他說: " 地球上的生命正在經歷著與日俱增的被災難滅絕的危險	he said , " life on earth is experiencing the danger of being disastered with increasingly increasingly
如果不到宇宙空間去 , 人類就沒有未來	if we don't have space , we don't have a future .
所以我想鼓勵大眾對宇宙的興趣 。 "	so i want to encourage public interest in the universe . "
我們帶他到了肯尼迪空間中心進了nasa的車子 , 然後到了那架飛機上	we took him to kennedy space center , we took him to the nasa car , and we got to that plane .
和我們同行的還有20位捐款的人們我們共為兒童慈善基金募集到了十五萬美金他們將跟我們一起飛行	we walked alongside 20 people , we raised 150 , 000 dollars for children's charity funds , and they were going to fly with us .
有一些ted會員	there are some ted fellows .
我們準備好了一切的急救措施	we're ready for emergency preparation .
飛機上還有四位急救室的醫生和兩位護士	there are four emergency room doctors and two nurses .
我們時刻監視著他血液中po2的含量 , 他的心跳率還有血壓	we monitored the amount of po2 in his blood , his heart rate , his blood pressure .
我們準備好了一切的應急措施天知道你可不想傷害到這位世界級的專家	we were prepared for everything , and god knows you wouldn't want to hurt the world's expert .
我們從宇宙飛船著陸點起飛就是宇宙飛船起飛和降落的地方	we took off from the cosmic vehicle , where the spacecraft took off and landed .
我跟我的搭檔byronlichtenberg小心翼翼地扶著他進入零重力	i flew byronlichtenberg carefully holding him to zero gravity .
到了頂點我們就鬆手讓他真正體驗無重力是什麼感覺	at the top , we relaxed him to really experience what gravity feels like .
第一次拋物飛行之後 , 你們知道麼醫生說一切正常 , 他就笑了 , 然後我們說繼續	after the first throw , you know the doctor says it's normal , he laughs , and we go on .
然後我們就做了第二次拋物飛行	and then we made a second parabola .
為了表示對愛薩克牛頓爵士的敬意 , 我們還實驗了漂浮一個蘋果因為霍金教授也有劍橋大學的那個席位就是愛薩克牛頓的那個	to honor sir isaac newton , we also experimented with an apple , because professor hawking has a seat at cambridge university , which is the one in isaac newton .
然後我們做了第四次 , 第五次 , 第六次	and then we did the fourth , the fifth , the sixth .
第七次 , 第八次	seventh , eighth .
這時候他看上去可不像一個被綁在輪椅上的65歲男人	at this point he doesn't look like a 65yearold man tied to a wheelchair .
他看上去非常高興	he looked very happy .
我們生活在一塊珍貴的寶石上在我們的有生之年我們離開了這個星球	we lived on a valuable stone , and in our lifetime , we left the planet .
讓我們一起來加入這場壯麗的探險吧	let's join this magnificent adventure .
醫學繪畫家戴維-布林斯基透過3分鐘的驚人動畫展現了細胞裡熙熙攘攘的生命運動 。	medical illustrator david blinsky showed the crossborder motion of the broadborrow in the cell for three minutes .
design , entertainment , film , health , medicine , science , technology , visualizations	it's silent , it's silent , it's silent , it's silver , it's silver .
戴維-布林斯基用動畫描繪了細胞	davi brinsky animated cells .
我是一個醫學畫家 , 我從一個略微不同的視角看待問題 。	i'm a medical painter , and i look at problems from a slightly different perspective .
我長大後就一直在觀察 , 在藝術裡真和美的表現形式以及科學中真和美的表現形式 。	i grew up observing the manifestations of truth and beauty in the form of truth and beauty in the science .
因為藝術和科學兩者本身就是極美妙的事物它們都有許多美妙的東西真和美 , 作為可以被科學及數學研究的思想 , 就好象是完美的連體雙胞胎使每個科學家都想與之約會 。	because art and science are both inherently wonderful things that all have wonderful things , truth and beauty , and the idea that science and mathematics can be studied is perfect twins that make every scientist want to date .
以下是值得敬畏的事情中 " 真 " 的一些表現形式 , 也就是說 , 這些事情是值得你仰慕的 。	here are some of the manifestations that are worth awesome , and that is , these things are worth looking up to you .
它們是強有力的理想 , 它們是不能簡化的 ,	they're powerful ideals , they can't simplify .
它們是獨一無二的 , 它們是有用的---有些時候 , 要事後很久才能體現出來 。	they're unique , they're useful sometimes it takes a long time to embody .
事實上 , 現在您可以開始播放一些圖片了 , 因為我不想在螢幕上看到自己 。	in fact , you can start playing some images now , because i don't want to see myself on the screen .
真和美的事 , 往往是摸不透的 , 對於非科學領域的人來說 。	truth and beauty are often inconvenient to people who are not scientific .
它們用自己獨特的方式來描述美 , 而只有當你懂得研究課題的人所使用的語言和語法時 , 你才會明白 。 該課題中表達著真與美 。	they describe beauty in their own unique ways , and only when you learn the language and grammar of the subject that you use to study the subject .
就拿數學來說 , e=mc^2或是宇宙常數 , 隱藏著跟人類學有關的理論 , 從中你可以體會到生命必須從描述宇宙的數字中演化而來--這些事真得很難理解 。	in the case of mathematics , e =mc^2 or the cosmic constant , which hides the theories associated with anthropology , and from that you can realize that life has to evolve from numbers describing the universe which is really hard to understand .
一直以來我想要做的是 , 既然我已訓練成一個醫學畫家--因為我老爸教我動畫技術 , 他是一位雕刻家及我的視覺導師我希望能過找到一種解決辦法 , 能幫助人們理解生命科學中的真和美 , 透過使用動畫 , 使用圖片以及講述故事等方式 。 使那些人們不一定很清楚的事物可以被提出 , 被教授 , 被理解	what i've always wanted to do is , since i've trained as a medical painter because my dad has taught me about animation , and he's a sculptor and my visual mentor , i hope to find a solution to understanding the truth and beauty in life by using an animation , using pictures , using storytelling , so that people aren't necessarily able to be understood , to be understood .
當今的學生常常處在一種環境中這裡 , 他們所學的科目中包含了真與美 , 但是他們所被教授的方法卻是被分割的這種方法使得真和美並不總是那麼明顯 。	students today are constantly in an environment where the subjects they've learned contain truth and beauty , but the way they've been taught to be separated are not always that obvious .
就像是一道古老的雞湯菜譜 , 烹煮雞肉直到香味通通散去	it's like an ancient chicken soup , cooked chicken until the flavor spread .
我們並不想對我們學生也這麼做 。	we don't want to do that to our students .
所以我們有機會可以真正開啟教育 。	so we have the opportunity to really open education .
數年前 , 我接到哈佛大學 , 分子與細胞生物學系robertlue的電話 。 他問我 , 我和我的團隊是否有興趣和願望來真正改變哈佛大學裡的醫學和科學教育方式 。	a few years ago , i got a call from harvard , the molecular and cellular biology department robert lue , and he asked me if my team and i were interested and wished to actually change the way medical and scientific education at harvard university .
所以我們開始了進行細胞探索的一個計劃 , 這將展示分子細胞生物學中內在的真和美由此學生會有更全面的印像能把所有事情聯絡在一起	so we're starting a program called cellular exploration , which will show the truth and beauty in molecular cellular biology , where students will have a more holistic impression , where they can connect everything together .
他們腦海中 , 將會形成一個生動的細胞印象細胞好像是一個龐大的、繁忙的、非常複雜的城市充滿了微型機器	in their minds , they form a vivid cell impression cell , which is like a massive , busy , complex city full of micromachines .
而這些微型機器卻是生命的中心 。	and these micromachines are at the center of life .
這些微型機器 , 能讓當今全球奈米工程師嫉妒 , 它們是能自我引導、功能強大且精密嚴謹的裝置它們是由氨基酸鏈所構成的 。	these micromachines allow nanoengineer global engineers , who are selfdirected , powerful and rigorous devices that are composed of amino acid chains .
這些微型機器能讓細胞移動	these micromachines allow the cell to move .
能讓細胞複製 , 它們也使我們心臟跳動 ,	they make the cells copy , and they make our heart beat .
同時賦予我們心智 。	it gives us minds .
我們想做的是 , 如何透過動畫講述這個故事這就是哈佛大學biovisions的主軸這是哈佛大學為分子細胞生物學學生開設的網站這些動畫 , 作為課本文字資訊 , 和所有老師授課內容的補充將所有東西視覺化地呈現在一起 , 這樣這些學生能夠從細胞內部發現細胞的真和美並在學習過程中 , 能一直將此畫面印在腦海中 , 從而他們的想象力被激發出來 , 學習激情也能夠激發出來 。 然後他們可以繼續前行用它們腦海中的這些畫面做新的探索並最終發現生命的原理 。	what we want to do is to tell this story through animation , and this is the main axis for the biovisions at harvard university these animations for molecular cellular biology students , and as the text messages and all the teachers that are teaching , they can visualize everything together so that these students can impress the beauty and learn from the inside of the cell , from the elephants in their minds , from the elephants that they want to be excited about , and then they can learn to ultimately explore these new principles in the brain .
所以我們開始研究這些分子到底是如何整合在一起的 。	so we started looking at exactly how these molecules are integrated .
我們想出了一個劇情大綱 , 那就是 , 巨噬細胞正在流過一個毛細血管它們不時接觸著毛細血管管壁它們收集來自細胞散佈在毛細血管管壁上的訊號 , 這個訊號是:在外側 , 有炎症發生 , 巨噬細胞本來是無從得知 。	we came up with a plot , which is , the macrophages are flowing through a hairy blood vessel and they're touching the capillary walls all the time they're collecting signals from the cells spreading across the walls of the capillary capillary vessels , which is , outside , inflammation happens , and the macrophages are unknown .
但是 , 它們得到的資訊 , 使它們停下來使它們內化 , 使它們動員細胞各部分使自己改變形狀 , 並努力穿越毛細血管搞清楚到底放生了什麼	but the information that they get get gets stopped to make them internalize , to mobilize parts of the cell to change shape and try to get past the capillary blood vessels to figure out what's going on .
因此這些分子的馬達--我們必須和哈佛的科學家一起研究 , 使用資料庫中真實的由原子構成的分子結構模型並搞清楚他們是如何運動的 , 它們做了什麼 。	so these molecular motors we had to work with the scientists at harvard , using the real molecular models of atoms in the database and figure out how they're moving , what they do .
並想出一個辦法 , 能夠真實的表現裡面正在發生的事情 , 但又不是那麼地真實 , 因為實際上細胞中緊密擁擠使這種景象變得不可能 。	and figure out a way to be able to show what's happening in real life , but it's not that real , because it's actually tightly crowded around the cell that makes it impossible .
我將給您展示的是一段3分鐘的影片這是我們做的影片第一部分的《讀者文摘》版這個計劃尚未完成 , 還需要4 , 5年時間	so what i'm going to show you is a threeminute video , and this is the first part of the video that we did , the reader version , which is still unfinished , and it takes four or five years .
我請您看這個並看看這些細胞造的路這些小的正在走動的機器 , 是驅動蛋白--它們負載而行在大小比例關係上 , 可以和螞蟻一決雌雄 。	i want you to look at this and look at the paths that these little walking machines are driving proteins they're paying for the size of the scale , they're male and female .
請播放動畫	please play animation .
但這些賦予細胞內部生機的機器實在令人驚奇 , 他們真的是所有生命的基礎 。 因為所有這些機器都在互相交流 。	but these machines that are giving the inside of the cell are absolutely amazing , and they are really the foundation of life , because all these machines are communicating with each other .
他們互相傳遞資訊	they communicate information to each other .
他們決定細胞裡不同的事件發生 。	they decide different events in the cell .
在空間裡 , 細胞透過利用能讀懂基因的分子從細胞核中帶來資訊 , 從而正確生產出它所需要的部分 。	in space , the cell uses molecules that can read the genes to introduce information from the nucleus , to correctly produce the parts it needs .
沒有任何生命 , 從最小的生命到在坐的各位 , 如果沒有這些小型機器 , 可以存在 。	no life , from the smallest life to anybody sitting , without these small machines , could exist .
事實上 , 沒有這些機器的話 , chris , 今天的出席狀況將非常慘烈 。	in fact , without these machines , chris , attendance today is going to be very terrible .
這是細胞中fedex快遞人員:	this is the fedex director in the cell .
這個小傢伙叫驅動蛋白他拉著一大袋新合成的蛋白質 , 到細胞所需要的任何地方--不論它是細胞膜 , 還是一個細胞器也不管是用來搭建什麼 , 還是修復什麼	this little guy is driving the protein , and he's pulling a bag of newly synthetic proteins , anywhere in the cell whether it's a membrane , whether it's a cell , whether it's a cellular device , whether it's for building something or repairing something .
我們體內每個細胞 , 大約有10萬個這樣的小傢伙此時此刻 , 正在跑來跑去而我們大約有100萬億個細胞 。	we have about 100 , 000 of these little guys in our bodies right now , running around , and we have about 10 trillion cells .
所以無論你覺得自己有多懶本質上 , 你並不是什麼都沒做 。	so no matter how lazy you feel , you don't do anything .
當你回家時 , 我希望你們能夠思考這個問題 , 想想我們的細胞是多麼地強大	and when you go home , i want you to think about this , just how powerful our cells are .
想想我們正在學的細胞機器的種種事情 。	think about the kinds of things that we're learning about cellular machines .
一旦我們全盤瞭解細胞內發生的所有事情相信我 , 我們大概才知道1%而已--一旦我們瞭解細胞內的狀況 , 我們將能更好地控制我們的健康 , 我們的下一代 , 我們的壽命 。	once we know everything that's happening inside our cells and believe me , we probably know one percent if we understand what's going on inside cells , we're going to be able to control our health better , our children , our children , our lives .
並且 , 希望我們可以藉此去發現更多的真和美 。	and hopefully , we can find more truth and beauty by doing that .
這些細胞 , 這些微型機器 , 真的不可思議 , 它們能過意識到細胞需要它們為其做些什麼事情	these cells , these micromachines , are incredible , and they're aware of what the cell needs them to do .
他們同心協力 , 它們使細胞能夠完成需要做的事情	they work together , and they allow the cells to do what they need to do .
他們通力合作才使我們身體--這個他們永遠看不見的巨大整體能夠正常工作 。	they work together to make our bodies this enormous , invisible whole that they will never see will work properly .
請繼續欣賞接下來的表演 。 謝謝 。	please enjoy the rest of the show . thank you .
貝基布蘭頓計劃在一年裡就在他的小貨車裡住並且遊歷全國 , 但是當沮喪加劇而且自由作家的工作泡湯的時候 , 他的旅營就變成了無家可歸了 。 在這個溫馨的演講中 , 她描述了她作為美國無家可歸的工作者之一的獨特經歷 。	baki brandon was planning to live and travel throughout the country for a year , but when depression and free writers worked bubble soup , his travel camp became homeless , and in this gentle talk she described her as a homeless worker in america .
adventure , happiness , life , personalgrowth , poverty , socialchange , society , storytelling	" adventure , " " happiness , " " of course , " of course , " of course , " of course , " of course , of " poverty , " of course , " of the mind , of course , " of the story .
貝基布蘭頓:我無家可歸的一年	brendy brandon: one year i was homeless .
我是一個作家 , 一個新聞記者 , 我也是一位具有強烈求知慾的人 。 所以在做新聞記者的22年裡 , 我知道了很多新奇的事物 。	i'm a writer , i'm a journalist , i'm also a very strongly cognitive person , so for 22 years of doing journalists , i know a lot about novelty .
而三年前 , 我學會做的一件事就是變成隱形人 。	and one of the things i learned three years ago was that i became invisible .
我成了一個無家可歸的工作者 。	i became a homeless worker .
我辭掉了報紙編輯的工作在我父親那年二月去世之後我決定去旅行	i quit my job as a newspaper editor after my father died that february , and i decided to travel .
他的去世對我打擊非常大 。	his death hit me very big .
當時這麼做 , 是因為有很多我想去感知和處理的事 。	and this was because there were so many things that i wanted to perceive and deal with .
旅遊時我天天都在露營 。 並且決定在休旅車裡住一年就當作是一段長期野營旅行 。	i was traveling every day , camping and deciding to live in the suv for a year as a longterm camp trip .
所以 , 我就帶上我的貓 , 我的羅特威爾犬和露營的裝備裝載到1975產的雪佛萊旅遊車上 , 開車去看日落但當時完全沒想過三件嚴重的事	so i took my cat , my rotwellerdog and camping equipment , loaded onto the 1975 chevley ride , drove to the sunset , but i hadn't thought about three serious things .
一:社會將住房即使是很小的房間 , 和人的價值等同起來 。	one: social housing is equal to human worth .
二:我沒有意識到其他人的負面言語對我們本身的影響是多麼嚴重 , 假如我們放任不管 。	two: i didn't realize the negative impact that other people had on us if we let go .
三:我沒有意識到無家可歸是一種生活態度而不是一種生活方式 。	three: i didn't realize homelessness is a lifestyle , not a lifestyle .
一開始 , 住在車裡是很不錯的 。	at first , living in a car was great .
我在露天洗澡 , 正常的去外面吃東西 。	i was taking a shower , normally eating outside .
而且有時間去抒發情感 。	and there's time for emotional expression .
但是後來 , 因我父親去世而帶來的悲憤和痛沮開始加劇 。	but then , the anger and the depression that my father died began to accelerate .
我自由作家的工作結束了 。 我就需要去找一件全職工作來支付我的賬單 。	my free author's work ended , and i needed to find a fulltime job to pay my bills .
從一個非常溫和的春天變到一個極其炎熱的夏天會怎樣呢 。	from a very gentle spring to an extremely hot summer .
不管車停在哪都是難以忍受的不用說也很明顯我帶著一隻貓和一隻狗 , 而且非常的熱 。	regardless of the car park is unbearable , obviously i'm carrying a cat and a dog and i'm very hot .
貓從車窗來回的跑 。	the cat runs back and forth from the window .
狗跑到了狗狗護理中心 。	the dog ran to the dog nurse center .
不管什麼時候 , 只要可以 , 我就會去用在辦公大樓和卡車車站裡員工用的淋浴 。	whenever i can , i go to showers for office buildings and truck stops .
或者在公共衛生間裡洗洗 。	or wash in public health .
在夜裡車裡的溫度很少會降到華氏80度以下 , 這使我幾乎無法入睡 。	at nighttime temperatures dropped below 80 degrees fahrenheit , which made me almost impossible to sleep .
食物在高溫下腐壞 。	food rotted in the heat .
冷藏櫃裡的冰幾個小時就化完了 , 非常苦悶的時期 。	the ice in the refrigeratory locker was completed , very painful time .
我沒錢找公寓 , 或者找不到讓我可以養狗和貓的地方 。	i had no money to find an apartment , or to find a place where i could raise dogs and cats .
我不想把它們拋棄 。 所以我繼續待在旅行車裡 。	i didn't want to throw them away . so i stayed in the van .
但炎熱的天氣使我飽受折磨以至於在夜裡走50英尺到車外面的公共衛生間都懶的動 。 我用桶和垃圾袋當廁所 。	but the hot weather made me so afflicted that i was walking 50 feet into the middle of the night to the outside of the vehicle , lazy for the public health packets and garbage bags .
當冬天來臨的時候 , 溫度驟降到零度以下 。 然後就一直這麼冷 。	when the winter came , the temperature dropped below zero degrees , and it stayed that cold .
我又遇到了一堆新問題 ,	and i had a bunch of new questions .
每晚我的車都停在不同的地方 。 這樣才可以不讓警察發現以至於和警察爭吵 。	every night , my car parked in different places so that it wouldn't let the police find the police to argue with the police .
當然 , 並不是每次都成功 。	of course , not always successful .
但是 , 我覺得我已無力掌控自己的生活了 。	but i felt like i had no control over my life .
我也不知道什麼時候或者是如何發生的 , 我這麼快就從一個有才的寫手 , 新聞從業者變成一個無家可歸 , 住在車裡的女人這簡直是快的難以置信 。	i didn't know when or how it happened so quickly , i went from being a talented writer to being an homeless woman living in a car , incredibly fast .
我並沒有變 。 我的智商沒有降低 。	i didn't change . my iq did not decrease .
我的才能 , 我的正直 , 我的價值 , 所有關於我的這些東西都還是一樣 。	my talent , my integrity , my worth , everything about me is still the same .
但是從某種程度上 , 我還是改變了 ,	but in a way , i changed .
我越來越沮喪 , 像一個漩渦一樣不斷地往下沉 。	i was increasingly frustrated , sinking down like a swirl eddy .
後來有人介紹我去一個專為無家可歸之人開的健康診所 。	and then someone introduced me to a health clinic that was prescribed for homelessness .
我去了 。 我有三天都沒有洗澡了 ,	i went . i didn't bathe for three days .
我和其他那些排隊的人一樣沮喪 , 身上的味道也很難聞 。	i was as depressed as anybody else in line , and i was very difficult to smell .
我只是沒有喝醉或者興奮 。	i just wasn't drunk or excited .
當一些無家可歸的人意識到 , 包括一個以前在大學任教的教授 , 他們說: " 你不是無家可歸 , 你真正在這裡的原因是什麼 ? "	when some homeless people realized , including a professor who used to teach at university , they said , " you're not homeless , what's the reason you're really here ? "
其他的無家可歸的人不把我當作是無家可歸的人看待 。 但是我自己是這麼認為的 。	other homeless people don't see me as homeless people , but i do .
後來 , 教授聽了我的故事後他說 , " 你有工作 , 有希望 。	and then , after the professor listened to my story , he said , " you have work , you have hope .
真正無家可歸的人並沒有希望可言 。 "	there is no hope for a real homeless person . "
診所針對我沮喪開的藥物的副作用讓我有點自殺的傾向 。 我還記得當時想 , " 如果我自殺了 , 可能沒人會發現的 "	the doctor's side effects that i was a little bit of a suicide tendency for the side effects that i was depressed about , and i remember thinking , " if i'm suicidal , no one's going to find it . "
在那不久後 , 我的一個朋友就告訴我 , 她聽說提姆路塞特 , 一個全國知名的記者在全國播放的電視節目上談論到了我 。	not long after that , a friend of mine told me about tim luther , a nationally renowned journalist talking about me on national television .
一篇我寫的關於我父親的短文 , 在他去世前一年寫的 , 被收錄到了提姆的新書裡 。	an essay i wrote about my father , a year before he died , was received in tim's new book .
他那時在做巡迴演講 , 提到我的寫作 。	he was giving a tour to mention my writing .
當我發現提姆路塞特 , 前meetthepress節目的調解員 , 在談論我的寫作 。 而我卻生活在停在沃爾瑪停車場裡的旅行車裡面 , 我開始笑了 ,	when i found tim luther , former meetthepress , talking about my writing , and i was living in a van that parked in walmart parking lot , i started laughing .
我開始笑 , 因為這正是問題根結 , 我是一位作家呢 , 還是一位無家可歸的女人 ?	and i started laughing , because that's the root of the problem , am i a writer , or is it a homeless woman ?
於是我走進一家書店 。 找到提姆的書 。	so i went into a bookstore . i found tim's book .
我站在那 , 又重新讀了一遍我寫的短文 。	and i stood there , and i reread the text that i've written .
因為我是一位作家 ,	because i'm a writer .
是一位作家 。	it's a writer .
在那之後 , 我很快就搬回了田納西 。	since then , i quickly moved back to tennessee .
有時住在車裡 , 有時會去朋友家睡沙發 。	sometimes living in a car , sometimes going to a friend's house to sleep on the couch .
我又重新開始寫作了 。	i started writing again .
在接踵而來的夏天裡 , 我又成為了一名新聞記者 。	in the aftermath summer , i became a journalist .
我得了獎 , 住在我自己的公寓裡 。	i got a prize , and i lived in my own apartment .
我不再無家可歸 。	i was no longer homeless .
我也不再被無視 。	i was no longer blind .
無數的人在從事著全職和兼職的工作 , 而且住在他們的車裡 。	countless people are engaged in fulltime jobs and parttime jobs and living in their cars .
但是社會還繼續汙衊他們並視住在交通工具裡或者睡在街上為犯罪 。	but society remains obstacles who live in the transportation vehicles or sleep on the streets for crime .
所以那些無家可歸 , 有工作但是無家可歸的人 , 大部分還是隱藏著的 。	so the homeless , the working but homeless , most of them are still hidden .
但是如果你見到了 , 僱用他們 , 鼓勵他們 , 並給予他們希望 。	but if you see them , hire them , encourage them and give them hope .
只要有希望 , 人類的精神可以克服一切困難 。	with hope , human spirit can overcome everything .
我並不是來這裡為無家可歸的人做宣傳的 。	i'm not here to make advocacy for homeless people .
我不是來這裡鼓勵你們去施捨下一個你見到的乞丐 。	i'm not here to encourage you to take the next begg that you see .
而我在這裡是來告訴你們 , 根據我過去的經歷 , 人不是由他們所住的地方 , 睡得地方 , 或者他們在任何一個時間的生活狀態所決定的 。	and i'm here to tell you that , in my past experience , people are not determined by where they live , where they sleep , or where they live at any given time .
三年前 , 我住在一個停在沃爾瑪的停車場的汽車裡 。 而今天我卻在ted演講 。	three years ago , i lived in a car that parked in walmart , and today i'm speaking at ted .
希望永遠 , 永遠 , 會指引前路 。 謝謝 。	hope is forever , forever , leading the way . thank you .
在tedxchange系列中 , 泰國的 " 安全套之父 " , mechaiviravaidya向觀眾展示泰國在二十世紀七十年代如何採取大膽的措施來提高人民的生活水平 。 控制人口是他們的首要任務 。 他的演講圍繞安全套展開 , 直爽風趣 , 也發人深省 。	in the tedxchange department , " the father of the condoms , " mechaiviravaidya showed thailand how in the 1970s , in the '70s , to improve the standard of people's lives .
culture , globalissues , health , population , science	" the world , the issues , " says , " hey , hey , hey . "
mechaiviravaidya:套套先生 , 讓泰國更美好	mechai viravaida: to make thailand better .
四十年前 , 我還是個年輕小夥子的時候 , 這個國家非常 , 非常窮 。 無數人過著貧困的生活 。	when i was a young man 40 years ago , this country was very , very poor , and so many people lived in poverty .
我們決心改變這一切 , 但我們沒有實施任何福利政策 , 或者扶貧計劃 。	we decide to change all of this , but we don't implement any welfare policy or any poverty program .
我們開始推行計劃生育政策 , 採取了一套非常成功的母子保健措施 , 多項措施 。	we started working on fertility policies , taking a very successful set of mothers' healthcare measures , multiple measures .
總的來說 , 如果孩子出生後不能存活 , 自然不會有人接受計劃生育 。	and by and large , if children are born without survival , they will not naturally be planned to fertilize .
所以 , 第一步就要保證孩子和母親的生活 , 然後實行計劃生育 。	so the first step is to guarantee the lives of children and mothers , and then to practice fertility .
光控制嬰兒的死亡率是不夠的 , 你還需要計劃生育 。	it's not enough just to control infant mortality , but you also need to plan for birth .
我帶大家回顧一下當初我們為什麼要採取這個政策 。	i want to take you back to why we took this policy .
1974年 , 在我的國家裡	in 1974 , in my country .
平均每個家庭有七個孩子 。 人口增長率高達3.3%.	seven children per family: a population growth rate , up to 3 . 3 percent .
根本沒有未來可言 。	there is no future at all .
我們必須降低人口增長率 。	we need to reduce population growth rates .
於是我們決定: " 馬上行動 。 "	so we decided , " act now . "
而婦女們說: " 我們同意 。 我們可以使用避孕藥 , 但是需要醫生開藥 。 " 不巧的是我國當時沒幾個醫生 。	and the women said , " we can agree . we can use contraceptives , but we need doctors to prescribe medicine . "
我們並沒有氣餒 ; 而是試圖解決這個問題 。	we are not daunting ; we are trying to solve this problem .
我們向護士們和助產士們求助 , 她們都是女性 , 她們出色地解說了避孕藥的使用方法 。	we asked nurses and midwife , they were women , and they brilliantly described the use of contraceptives .
這非常好 , 但是這也只能幫助全國20%的地區 。	it's very good , but it's also only 20 percent of the country .
剩下的80%怎麼辦呢--撒手不管 , 說: " 沒辦法 , 我們沒有足夠的醫務人員 " ?	what about the 80 percent that's left the sampler says , " can't we , don't we have enough medical workers ? "
不 , 我們決定做出更多努力 。	no , we decided to do more .
於是我們向普通老百姓求助 , 就是你們看到的這些人 。	so we reached out to ordinary citizens , and that's the people you see .
實際上 , 在那個黃色牌子後面--但願他們還沒把它撤下來 , 因為牌子後面放的是可口可樂 。	in fact , behind that yellow card hopefully they haven't removed it , because behind it is cocacola .
我們當時的名氣比可口可樂大多了 。	we were much more famous at the time than cocacola .
普通老百姓一樣可以勝任 , 他們幫助的人群正是我們的目標人群 。	ordinary people can prevail , and the people they help are our target crowd .
他們和他們的圈子裡的人很熟 , 他們知道顧客就是上帝 , 他們不但幫了大忙 , 自己也在進行節育措施 。	they were familiar with people in their circles , they knew that customers were god , and not only did they help , but they were doing family planning .
他們可以在全國各個村莊提供避孕藥和安全套 。	they can provide condoms and condoms across the country .
就這樣 , 我們找這些老百姓幫忙 。 他們實際上是在幫助自己解決問題 。	so we asked the citizens to help , and they were actually helping themselves to solve problems .
只要是有人的地方--你們看到這些划船的婦女--在賣東西--這裡是一個水上市場賣香蕉和螃蟹還有節育用品--在泰國 , 只要是有人的地方 , 你就能找到節育用品 。	wherever there's people you see these rowboat women selling things here's aquarium markets for banananas and crabs and birth control products in thailand , wherever there are people , you can find savings .
接著 , 我們決定找宗教人士幫忙 , 在菲律賓 , 天主教堂的影響力非常大 , 而泰國人信仰佛教 。	and then we decided to find religious people to help , and in the philippines , catholic church was very influential , and thailands believe in buddhism .
我們去找他們 , 他們說: " 能請你們幫忙嗎 ? "	we went to them , and they said , " would you please help ? "
我當時在場 , 穿藍色衣服的就是我 , 不是黃衣服那個 , 我手裡捧著一碗聖水讓那個和尚把聖水澆在避孕藥和安全套上來保佑家庭的聖潔 。	i was there , and i was wearing the blue , not the yellow dress , holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to pour the sacred water on pills and condoms to bless the family's sanctity .
這張照片傳遍了全國 。	this picture spread across the country .
一些和尚在各自的村子裡也在做同樣的工作	some of them are doing the same thing in their villages .
婦女們說: " 難怪我們沒感到任何副作用 。	the women said , " no wonder we didn't feel any side effects .
原來是佛祖保佑啊 。 "	it was buddhist blessing . "
她們是這麼想的 。	that's what they think .
我們去找教師們 。	we went to teachers .
你需要所有人的參與 , 各盡一份力讓世界更人性化 。	you need everybody's engagement to make the world more human .
於是我們去找教師們 。	so we went to teachers .
超過二十五萬人在學校學習與計劃生育有關的新字母表a , b是birth , c是condom , i是iud , v是vasectomy.	over 250 , 000 people are learning about new alphabet alphabets associated with planning a , b is birth , c is condom , iud , v , vasectomy .
我們後來還有一套智力棋遊戲 , 置色子來玩的 。	we ended up playing a smart game with color .
如果你的棋落在支援節育的格子裡 , 那你就可以繼續向前走 。	if your chess lands on a grid for support , then you can move forward .
比如說 , " 媽媽每晚服避孕藥 。	for example , " mom takes a contraceptive pill every night .
非常好 , 媽媽 。 往前走 。	very good , mom . moving forward .
叔叔買了一個安全套 。 非常好 , 叔叔 。 往前走 。	uncle bought a condom . very good , uncle . moving forward .
叔叔喝醉了 , 沒有用安全套 。 退回去 , 從頭來 。 "	uncle drunk , no condom . come back from the beginning . "
這叫寓教於樂 。	this is a parable of pleasure .
孩子們在學校裡也有這些活動 。	kids are in school , too .
我們有安全套接力賽 , 還有少兒吹安全套冠軍盃 。	we have condoms . we have fewer blowers to the condoms .
不久前 , 安全套榮幸地成為女孩子們最親密的朋友 。	not long ago , condoms had the pleasure of becoming the most intimate friends of girls .
在泰國 , 對於窮人來說 , 鑽石太遙不可及了 。 所以安全套取而代之 , 成為女孩們最好的朋友 。	in thailand , for poor people , diamonds are too farfetched , so security kits replaced them , to become girls' best friends .
1975年 , 我們開始推行首個小額貸款政策 。 做籌劃工作的婦女們說: " 我們只貸款給那些進行節育的婦女 。	in 1975 , we started launching the first microcredit policy , and the women who worked in the planning system said , " we only gave those birth control women .
如果你懷孕了 , 那你就得自己想辦法了 。	if you're pregnant , then you have to figure it out yourself .
如果你沒懷孕 , 那就可以向我們貸款 。 "	if you're not pregnant , then loan to us . "
這就是由她們組織的 。	it's organized by them .
35年 , 36年之後 , 這個專案還在進行 。	35 years , 36 years later , this project is still underway .
現在已經成為農村發展銀行的一個部門了 。 這不是一個真的銀行 , 而是一個基金會--提供小額貸款 。	it's now a rural development bank . it's not a real bank , it's a foundation providing microloans .
我們不需要一個大型組織來管理這個專案 。 它是由村民自主管理的 。	we don't need a big organization to run this project . it's run by villagers .
在這裡 , 你可能很難看到泰國男人 。 到處都是女人 , 女人 , 女人 , 女人 。	in this case , it's hard to see thailand man , women , women everywhere .
後來 , 我們覺得應該幫助一下美國 , 因為美國不管人家需不需要幫助 , 總是樂於助人 。	and then we thought we should help the united states , because america , no matter what people need , is always willing to be helpful .
這是7月4日美國國慶日 。	this is the american celebration of july 4th .
我們決定向所有男性提供輸精管結紮手術 。 而先到場的美籍男性可以享受特殊待遇 , 直接在美國大使的官邸進行手術 。	we decided to give all the men pipelines , and the american men who came to this room could enjoy specific treatments and go to mansion surgery directly in the us ambassadors .
賓館把舞廳借給我們做場地 。 這是一個相當正經的房間 。	the room borrowed us the dance hall . this is a very serious room .
快到午飯時間 , 他們說: " 好了 , 我們會準備午餐 。	nearly lunchtime , they said , " ok , we're going to have lunch .
當然 , 肯定要有美國可樂 。	of course , there must be american coke .
有兩種選擇 , 可口可樂和百事可樂 。	there are two options , cocacola and pepsi .
可供選擇的食物有漢堡包和熱狗 。 "	there's a food supply that's chosen to have hamburgers and hot dogs
我覺得還是熱狗更具象徵意義 。	i think it's even more symbolic .
這一位小夥子叫威利.波姆 , 他為美國國際開發總署工作 。	this young man is willie pom , and he works for nasa .
很明顯 , 他剛做完結紮手術 , 看他手裡拿著吃得只剩一半的熱狗 , 還樂呵呵的 。	apparently , he had just finished surgery , and he looked at half of his hotdog in his hand , and he was happy .
這在美國製造了很多新聞 , 還惹怒了一些人 。	this made a lot of news in the united states , and it got angry some people .
我說: " 沒關係 。 你們也過來吧 , 我們會滿足所有人的需要 。 "	i said , " it's ok . you guys come , we'll meet the needs of everyone . "
在所有努力之下 , 每個家庭平均7個孩子減少到1.5個 。 人口增長率從3.3%降到0.5% 。	under all efforts , seven children per family has decreased to 1 . 5 children , population growth from 3 . 3 percent to 0 . 5 percent .
你可以把它稱為可口可樂策略 。 因為我們用的是同樣的策略 。	you can call it cocacola strategy because we're using the same strategy .
我不確定是可口可樂學我們 , 還是我們學他們 , 反正我們是鐵哥們兒 。	i'm not sure we're cocacola , we're still learning them , we're iron brothers .
這是所有人一同出力的結果 。	this is the result of all of us working together .
當時的政府軟弱無力 , 而我們又沒有足夠的醫生 。	the government was weak , and we didn't have enough doctors .
但是 , 只有所有人行動起來 , 才能改變人們的態度和行為 。	but only people can act can change attitudes and behaviors .
隨後 , 艾滋病席捲了泰國 。 我們不得不停下手中忙碌的事業來抗擊艾滋病 。	and then aids rolled thailand , and we had to stop doing the busy in our hands against aids .
不幸的是 , 政府一再否決我們的行動 。	unfortunately , governments reject our actions over and over again .
我們的工作沒有取得成效 。	our work didn't work .
於是 , 我想: " 既然不能向政府求助 , 那就去找軍方 。 "	so i thought , " if you can't ask for help from the government , go to the military . "
我就去了軍隊 , 向他們借300個廣播電臺 。	so i went to the army , and i borrowed 300 radio stations from them .
他們擁有的電臺比政府的多 , 他們的槍也比政府的多 。	they own more radio stations than governments , and they have more guns than governments .
我問他們是否能幫我們抗擊艾滋病 。	i asked them if they could help us fight hiv .
我把資料資料給他們看 。 他們說: " 好的 。 你可以用我們所有的電臺和電視臺 。 "	i showed them the data . they said , " ok . you can use all of our radio stations and all of our tv stations . "
就這樣 , 我們可以在空中做宣傳了 。	and that's it , we can propagate it in the air .
在此之後 , 我們有了新一任總理 。	since then , we have a new prime minister .
他說: " mechai , 你願意加入我們嗎 ? "	he said , " mechai , would you join us ? "
他邀請我加入是因為他很欣賞我夫人 。	he invited me to join because he appreciated my wife .
我說: " 好的 。 "	and i said , " ok . "
他成了國家艾滋病協會主席並把預算提高到之前的五倍 。	he became the chairman of the national association for hiv and raised the budget fivefold .
每個部門的部長 , 甚至法官們 , 都必須接受艾滋病教育 。 所有人 。 包括老百姓 , 各個機構 , 宗教組織 , 學校--所有人都參與了 。	every sector's minister , even judges , has to be educated by hiv/aids . everyone , including civilians , institutions , religious organizations , schools everybody's involved .
每個媒體工作者也必須接受艾滋病相關的培訓 。	every media worker has to be trained for hiv .
作為回報 , 我們讓每個電臺或電視臺加播半分鐘的廣告來賺更多錢 。	in return , we made more money for every radio or tv station for half a minute .
他們對此很滿意 。	they were very happy with this .
所有學校都開展艾滋病教育 , 首先從大學校園開始 。	all schools are starting hiv/aids education , first from college campuses .
這些高中生正在教其他高中生 。	these high school students are teaching other high school students .
在教課方面 , 女生比男生強多了 。 她們非常能幹 。	in lessons , women are much stronger than men , and they are very capable of doing it .
這些到各個校園宣傳安全性知識和艾滋病預防的姑娘們被親切地稱為 " 特蕾莎修女 " 。	these girls who went to campus to propagate security knowledge and hiv prevention were known as sister teresa .
接下來 , 我們進一步採取措施 。	next , we take a step further .
這些是小學生--三四年級--他們會挨家挨戶走邊整個村子 , 走邊整個泰國 , 宣傳艾滋病知識 , 把安全套發放到每家每戶 。 讓這些孩子來完成這些工作 。	these are primary students in 34th grade they go door to door to door to the village , all across thailand , promoting knowledge of aids , putting condoms on every household , and letting these kids do the work .
沒有家長反對 , 因為這是在拯救生命 , 是捍衛生命的行動 。	there's no parent opposition , because it's saving lives , it's about defending lives .
我們呼籲: " 所有人都行動起來 。 "	we call out: " everybody acts . "
各個公司都意識到病了的員工不能工作 ; 死了的顧客不能購買 。	each company realized that sick employees cannot work ; dead customers cannot buy .
他們都接受了培訓 。	they were trained .
這位 " 安全套船長 " 憑著哈佛大學的mba , 奔走於各個學校和夜店 。	this captain , at harvard's mba , running through schools and nightclubs .
他很受歡迎 。 一個代言人是必要的 。	he's popular . a spokesperson is necessary .
每個國家 , 每個政策 , 都需要一個形象代言人 , 這份工作應該算是他靠mba混來的最美的差事了 。	every country , every policy , needs a metaphorical speaker , which is probably one of the most beautiful things he did on mba .
我們在大街上到處發放安全套--走到哪兒 , 發到哪兒 。	we release condoms everywhere on the street where , where .
連出租車上都有安全套 。	there are condoms on the rent .
另外 , 你在開車的時候 , 交警也會給你發安全套--這是我們的 " 膠警 " 專案 。	also , when you're driving , the cop gives you condoms this is our glio program .
大家能想像到紐約市交警給你發安全套嗎 ?	can you imagine a new york city police officer having a condom ?
我反正沒問題 。 他們肯定會樂此不疲的 。 我能想像他們現在就站在街上 ,	i'm ok . they're definitely not fatigued .
手上拿著安全套 , 分發給形形色色的路人 。	with a condom in your hand , you distribute it to a form of passengers .
新產品來了 , 我們有髮帶 , 服飾 , 要是碰上雨季 , 我們給你的手機也備上了安全套 。	new products are coming , we have hair tapes , clothing , and if we get to the rainy season , we put a condom on your cell phone .
這些是我們生產的安全套 。	these are the condoms we produce .
這個上面寫著: " 大規模保護性武器 " 。	this says , " weapon of mass protection . "
我們找到了 , 某些人在搜尋大規模殺傷性武器 , 但是我們找到了大規模保護性武器--安全套 。	we found that some people were searching for weapons of mass destruction , but we found weapons of mass protection the condom .
這一個有星條旗圖案的寫著 , " 出門常備 。 "	this one has a star flag pattern that says , " go out . "
我過後會把它們發給大家 。	i'm going to give them to everybody afterwards .
但是 , 提醒你們一下 , 這些都是泰國人的尺寸 , 所以要慎用啊 。	but just to remind you , these are thailandsized people , so be careful .
你們看 , 安全套實在是神通廣大 。	you see , condoms are absolutely enormous .
大家看這裡 。 我給了algore和billsenior一人一件 。	look here . i gave one to al gore and bill senior .
上面寫著 " 阻止全球變暖 ; 請使用安全套 " 。	it says , " stop global warming ; use condoms . "
這一件我剛才跟大家提過--大規模保護性武器 。	this one i just told you about the weapon of mass protection .
讓下一屆奧運會拯救更多生命 。	let's save more lives from the next olympics .
穿上它出去跑一圈吧 !	put it out there for a run .
最後一件 , 在泰國 , 我們信佛 , 不信上帝 , 所以 , 我們的口號是: " 我們信靠橡膠套 " 。	and finally , in thailand , we emailed buddhist , we didn't believe in god , so our slogan was , " we trust rubber kits . "
大家可以看到 , 為了讓人們過上更美好的生活 , 我們盡了一切努力 。	and as you can see , in order to get people to live a better life , we did everything we could .
所有賓館和學校的冰箱裡都儲存著安全套 , 因為人們容易酒後亂性 。	all the refrigerators in all the hotels and schools are stored in condoms , because people are vulnerable to alcohol .
結果是什麼呢 ?	and what's the result ?
結果 , 所有人都參與了進來 。	and as a result , everybody participated in it .
聯合國的資料顯示 , 艾滋病的新增病例降低了百分之九十 。 世界銀行的報告顯示 , 我們的行動拯救了770萬人的生命 。	data from the united nations showed a 90 percent reduction in new cases of aids , and the world bank report showed that our actions had saved 7 . 7 million lives .
否則 , 今天就看不到這麼多泰國人在街上晃悠了 。	otherwise , today , so many thailanders are out on the street .
這是在告訴大家 , 你們也能盡一份力 。	it's about telling you that you can do your part .
百分之九十的資金都來自泰國國內 。	90 percent of the funding comes from thailand .
有政治性的幫助 , 經濟上的幫助 , 每個人都各盡其責 。	there's political help , economic help , everybody's responsible .
這不僅僅是專家 , 醫生和護士的責任 。	it's not just experts , doctors and nurses .
我們都要出力 。	we all need to be forced .
接著 , 我們決定幫助人們脫離貧困 , 我們成功阻止了艾滋病的蔓延 , 這一次 , 政府不再唱獨角戲 , 企業與政府開始聯<unk>合作 。	and then we decided to help people out of poverty , and we successfully stopped the spread of hiv , and this time the government stopped singinging unicorn tricks , and businesses and governments started to work together .
窮人其實也可以是生意人 , 只不過他們缺少技能和資金 。	poor people can be businesspeople , except they lack skills and funding .
這些都必須由企業界提供 。	it has to be provided by the corporate world .
我們幫助他們白手起家 , 做小本生意 。	we helped them get up and do small businesses .
致富的唯一出路是創業 。	the only way out of richness is entrepreneurship .
我們成功了 。	we did it .
資金引入到農村 , 村民靠種樹賺錢 。	funding has introduced rural areas , and villagers make money from growing trees .
這可不是天上掉餡餅 。	this is not a pie in the sky .
他們種樹所得的錢要轉成小額信貸基金 , 這就是農村發展銀行 。	they plant their income into microfinance funds , which is the rural development bank .
大家都參與 , 他們感覺自己是銀行的主人 , 因為錢都是他們自己的 。	everybody gets involved , they feel like bank owners , because money is their own .
貸款之前 , 你必須經過培訓 。	before the loan , you have to be trained .
我們相信 , 如果你想幫助現在還過著窮日子的人們 , 那麼就應該向他們提供貸款 。	we believe that if you want to help people who are still living on the poor days , then you should deliver them with loans .
貸款必須成為一項基本人權 。	loans must be a human right .
否則 , 他們永遠無法從貧困中走出來 。	otherwise , they'll never get out of poverty .
不過拿到貸款之前 , 你必須經過培訓 。	but before you get a loan , you have to train .
這個專案叫做 " 白手mba " , 教授如何經商這樣 , 他們貸款以後才會成功賺錢 。	this is a project called " white mba , " where professors can manage it so that they can make money after their loans .
這些是他們做的生意:賣蘑菇 , 螃蟹 , 蔬菜 , 樹木 , 水果 , 這個非常有意思--耐克牌的冰淇淋和餅乾 。 這個村莊是由耐克公司贊助的 。	these are the businesses they did: they sold mushrooms , crabs , vegetables , trees , fruit , this nike ice cream and cookies . this village was funded by nike .
他們說: " 他們應該停止生產鞋子和服裝 。	they said , " they should stop producing shoes and clothes .
這些更賺錢 , 因為我們買得起 。 "	this makes more money , because we can afford it . "
我們還有絲綢 , 泰國絲綢 。	we also have silk , thailand silk .
正如左邊這張圖 , 我們現在還生產蘇格蘭格子呢絨 , 然後賣給蘇格蘭後裔 。	as on the lefthand side , we're still producing now scottish fuzzy and sold to the scottish descendants .
在場或者電視機前的有意者 , 可以跟我聯絡 。	there are intentional people in front of the television set , who can contact me .
這是泰國的星巴克裡的標語-- " 咖啡與安全套 " 。	this is the thailand starbucks " coffee and condoms . "
星巴克咖啡讓你保持清醒 , 而我們既讓你保持清醒又讓你充滿活力 。	starbucks coffee keeps you awake , and we keep you awake and energetic .
你能想像嗎 ? 你在每家星巴克都可以買到安全套嗎 。	can you imagine , every starbucks buying a condom ?
你還可以點一杯牛奶咖啡 , 順便來幾個安全套 。	and you can order a cup of milk coffee , and you can order some safety condoms .
最後 , 在教育方面 , 我們想充分利用學校資源 , 把它變成一個供人終生學習的場所	and finally , in terms of education , we want to use school resources to make it a place for lifelong learning .
這叫做校園農村綜合發展專案 。	this is called the campus rural development program .
對於經濟社會發展而言 , 這是一箇中心任務 。	that's a central mission for social development .
對學校進行改革 , 讓它為社群服務 。	reform the school , make it social services .
這是一個竹製建築 , 所有建築都是竹子做的 。	this is a bamboo building , and all the buildings are made of bamboo .
這是一個竹製網格穹頂 。	this is a bamboo dome dome .
我想信buckminsterfuller要是看到這個竹製穹頂 , 肯定非常驕傲 。	i think buckminster fuller would have been very proud if he saw this bamboo dome .
我們把學校周圍的土地用做菜地 , 人們可以自己種菜 。	we cooked up the land around the school , people could grow their own food .
最後 , 我深信 , 如果我們希望實現mdg也就是千年發展目標--我們就需要把計劃生育提上日程 。	and finally , i'm convinced that if we want to fulfill mdg , which is the millennium development goal we're going to need to get our plans on the day .
當然 , 先解決嬰兒死亡率問題 , 接著實行計劃生育 。 每個人都應該為計劃生育盡一份力 。 計劃生育任重道遠 。	of course , solving infant mortality problem first , then implementing fertility programs that everyone should be part of , planning for fertility .
我們現在有了大規模保護性武器 。	we now have weapons of mass protection .
我們也請求下一屆奧林匹克運動會能夠參與拯救生命的偉業中 。	we also asked the next olympics movement to be part of the magic of saving lives .
最後 , 這是我們的官方網站 。	and finally , this is our official website .
這些是泰國 " 鬱金香 " 。	this is thailand tulip .
非常感謝大家 。	thank you very much .
對你而言 , 智慧手機可能就像你的朋友 。 但是真正的朋友會時不時給你一個笑臉 。 在ted2013大會上kellerrinaudo展示了romo , 一種由智慧手機控制的迷你機器人 , 可以陪著你散步 , 可以幫你在桌子上運送一杯咖啡 , 也可以根據可程式設計的表情來回應你 。	for you , smartphones may be like your friends , but real friends sometimes give you a smiley face at ted2013 , and at the ted2013 conference , keller rinaudo showed romo , a miniature robot that is controlled by smartphones that can take you for a walk , that can carry you a cup of coffee on your table , or respond to the programmable expression .
kellerrinaudo:基於智慧手機的迷你機器人	keller rinaudo: based on your smartphone miniature robot .
家裡有機器人的觀眾請舉下手 ~	please raise your hand if you have a robot at home .
嗯 , 不算太多 。	well , not too much .
好 。 這些舉手的觀眾中 , 哪些人家裡的機器人不是掃地機器人 ?	ok . in the audience of these hands , who are the robots not sweeping robots ?
這就是我們romotive團隊我和另外20個怪才想要解決的問題 , 而我們真的樂在其中 。	so this is our romotive team and i , with 20 other monsters , we're really having fun with this .
我們的目標是造出來一種誰都用得了的機器人 , 不管你是8歲還是80歲 。	our goal is to build a robot that is used by anybody , whether you're eight or 80 .
我們發現 , 這確實是一個很難的問題 , 因為這不僅要求你構造出來的機器人小巧、輕便 , 成本控制在可接受的水平 , 還要求你做出來的機器人足夠有趣 , 使得人們願意把它們帶回家 , 帶給孩子 。	and it turns out that it's a really hard problem , because it's not just that you're making small , lightweight , costcontrolled robots that are acceptable , but also that you're making robots that are interesting enough so that people are willing to take them home and bring them to their children .
這個機器人樣子不能太醜陋 。	this robot doesn't look too ugly .
他應該是很萌、很可愛的 。	he's supposed to be very adorable , cute .
romo機器人使用你已經熟知並喜歡的裝置你的iphone作為他的大腦 。	romo robots use your iphone as his brain , which you already know and love .
利用iphone的處理器和感測器 , 我們只花了大概150美元就做出來一臺帶有wifi和計算機視覺功能的機器人 , 價格只有過去類似機器人的造價的百分之一 。	using processors and sensors from the iphone , we've only made a robot for about 150 dollars with wifi and computer visual function at a cost of about one percent of the cost of similar robots .
現在romo醒了 , 他現在處在自主模式 。	now romo woke up , and he's in the autonomy mode .
他透過手機上的攝像頭識別和跟蹤我的臉 。	he recognized and followed my face through a camera on his phone .
如果我彎下腰 , 他也會跟著我轉 。	if i bend down , he's going to follow me .
他有些擔心 , 所以他的視線一直沒有離開我 。	he was a little worried , so his eyes never left me .
如果我來這邊 , 他也會跟我跑 。	if i were here , he would run with me .
如果我來這邊他很聰明 。	if i come here , he's smart .
如果我靠他太近 , 他會像其它小動物一樣感到害怕 ,	if i were to get too close , he would be as scared as any other little animal .
在很多方面 , romo跟你的寵物差不多 , 有自己的意識 。	in many ways , romo is about the same as your pet , has his own consciousness .
謝謝 , 小傢伙 。	thank you , little guy .
如果我想要探索這個世界啊哈 , romo累了如果我想透過romo探索這個世界 , 我可以透過別的ios裝置來連線romo 。	if i want to explore the world aha , romo tired if i want to explore the world through romo , i can connect romo through other ios devices .
比如這個ipad 。	like this ipad .
romo可以將影片流轉接到這臺裝置上 。	and romo can turn videos onto this device .
所以現在我能看到romo看到的一切 , 透過機器人的視角看世界 。	so now i can see everything romo sees the world through a robot's perspective .
我們在appstore上放了一個免費app , 如果你們在自己的手機上安裝了這個app我們現在就可以一起控制這個機器人 , 還可以一起玩遊戲 。	we put a free app on the app store , and if you installed it on your phone , we can now control the robot together and play games together .
讓我來快速演示一下 , romo現在正在傳送影片影象 , 你可以看到我和整個觀眾席 。	so let me show you very quickly , and romo's currently sending video now , and you can see me and the entire audience .
如果你站在romo面前 。	if you're standing in front of romo .
如果我想要控制romo , 我點幾個按鈕就可以了 。	if i want to control romo , i can click on a few buttons .
我可以讓他來回的移動 , 我還可以讓romo拍照 。	i could move him back and forth , and i could get romo photographed .
我很想要拍一張有1500位ted觀眾的照片 。	i would love to take a picture of 1 , 500 tedsters .
喀嚓 ! 拍好了 。	click ! click !
同樣的方式 , 你可以在ipad上來回的滾動畫面 , 我可以調整裝置上的攝像頭的角度 。	similarly , you can roll back and forth on the ipad , and i can adjust the camera heads on the device .
這就是透過romo的眼睛看到的你們的樣子 。	this is what romo's eyes look like .
最後 , romo作為我的一個延伸 , 我可以依照我的心情來改變他的表情 。	and finally , romo , as an extension of mine , can change his face based on my mood .
所以我可以登入進來 , 然後讓romo作出興奮的表情 。	so i could log in and make romo excited .
我們創造romo最最重要的一個考慮就是他的操作一定要非常非常的直觀 。	one of the most important considerations we made romo had to be his operations must be very , very intuitive .
任何人都應該不需要人教就會駕駛romo 。	anybody doesn't need to teach romo to drive .
現在 , 誰願意現場試一下 ?	now , who would be willing to do this live ?
謝謝 , scott 。	thank you , scott .
更酷的是 , 即使你跟romo相隔兩地 , 你也可以毫無障礙的控制他 。	and what's even cooler is that even if you're separated from romo , you can control him without a disability .
實際上 , 他可以在兩臺智慧裝置之間雙向的傳送影片和音訊訊號 ,	in fact , he can transmit videos and audio signals between two intelligent devices .
比如你可以透過瀏覽器登入romo , 這個時候他就像是帶輪子的skype電話一樣 。	you can log into romo via the browser , and at this point he's like skype with wheels .
我們剛才討論過遠端視覺呈現這就是非常酷的例子 。	we've just talked about remote visual representation that's a really cool example .
想象一下一個8歲的小姑娘 , 有一個iphone , 她的媽媽給她買了一個romo機器人 。	think of an eightyearold girl with an iphone whose mother bought her a romo robot .
小姑娘可以把她的iphone插到機器人上 , 給她住在很遠的地方的外婆發封電子郵件 。	the little girl could insert her iphone into the robot and send her emails to her grandmother who lives far away .
外婆可以登入進入romo , 跟孫女玩躲貓貓的遊戲 , 可以每天晚上都玩15分鐘 , 如果沒有romo , 她可能一年只有一兩次機會見到自己的乖孫女 。	the grandmother could log into romo and play a game with her granddaughter playing 15 minutes a night , and if she didn't have romo , she would have had a chance to meet her granddaughter once or twice a year .
所以 , romo現在已經可以做一些很酷的事情了 。	so romo's doing some pretty cool stuff right now .
最後我想要分享一下我們未來的工作目標 。	and finally , i want to share with you a little bit about where we're going to work in the future .
這實際上是我們的工程師之一dom在一個週末做出來的 。	and this is actually one of our engineers , donodm , built on a weekend .
它基於google的一個稱為blockly的開源框架構建 。	it's based on a google opensource framework called blockly .
它允許你以拖拽程式碼塊的方式創造出任何你想要的機器人的行為 。	it allows you to create whatever behavior you want in the way you trawle the code .
你不需要知道如何針對romo程式設計 。	you don't need to know how to program romo .
你要做的就是在瀏覽器中模擬你想要的行為 , 就是現在romo在螢幕左邊做的那樣 。	all you have to do is simulate what you want to do in the browser , which is what romo does on the lefthand side of the screen .
然後如果你想的話 , 你可以把程式碼下載到你的機器人中 , 在真實環境中執行在現實環境中執行程式 。	and if you think about it , you can download the code into your robot , run the program in real environments .
如果這些程式讓你很自豪 , 你可以向全世界所有有這款機器人的玩家分享你的程式碼 。	if you're proud of these programs , you can share your code with all the robot players around the world .
所以 , 這種帶wifi連線的機器人實際上是可以相互學習的 。	so this wifi connection of robots actually can learn from each other .
我們盡最大努力做到讓任何人都可以訓練機器人 , 是因為我們認為個人機器人最吸引人的地方就是個性化 。	we do our best to make it possible for anyone to train robots because we think the most attractive place for personal robots is personalization .
每個人對機器人的需求都是不同的 。	each of us has a different need for robots .
我們認為 , 如果你打算買臺機器人放在家裡 , 這個機器人應該是你自己想象力的體現 。	we think if you're going to buy a robot at home , it should be your own imagination .
我希望我能夠向你描述未來的個人機器人會是什麼樣子 。	i hope i can describe to you what a personal robot will look like in the future .
但是老實說 , 我也不知道 。	but to be honest , i didn't know .
但是我們知道這不會是那種很大的類人機器人 , 或是需要花10年時間和100億造出來的機器人 。	but we know that this isn't going to be a very large robot , or it's going to take 10 years and 10 billion robots .
未來的個人機器人會順著當前的研究方向發展 , 即依賴於你自己的創造力 , 去操縱像romo這樣小巧靈活的機器人 。	the future of personal robotics will follow current research directions , relying on your own creativity to manipulate a flexible robot like romo .
我們已經等不及讓你們人手一個機器人 , 等不及看到你們的想象力了 。	we can't wait for you to have a robot that can't wait to see your vision .
身為作家以及活動家的伊莎貝爾.阿連德討論了關於婦女 , 創造力以及女性主義的話題 , 演講中當然也講述了關於激情的故事 。	as a writer and as an activist , isabel allende talked about women , creativity and feminism , and of course , the speech told stories about passion .
entertainment , globalissues , love , parenting , storytelling , women , worldcultures	betainment , global issues , parenting , storytelling , world cultural .
伊莎貝爾.阿連德講述激情的故事	isabel allende tells the story of passion .
非常感謝 。 站在你們這些絕頂聰明的人之間讓我感到有一點可怕	thank you very much . i'm a little bit scary standing between you guys .
我將會在這裡講述關於激情的故事	i'm going to tell you a story about passion .
我很喜歡一句猶太諺語	i love a jewish saying .
比事實更為真實的是什麼 ? 答案:故事	what is truer than truth ?
我善於講故事並希望能夠向大家訴說比事實真為真實且有關於日常人性的故事	i'm good at storytelling , and i hope to be able to tell you stories that are truthful and true about our everyday humanity .
我對所有的故事都感興趣 , 讓我念念不忘直到我的寫作結束	i was interested in all the stories , and i missed it until the end of my writing .
總有一些特定的話題湧入我的腦海:公正 , 誠實 , 暴力 , 死亡 , 政治以及社會問題當然也包括自由	there's always some specific subject pouring into my mind: justice , honesty , violence , death , political and social issues , and of course freedom .
我知道在我們周圍充滿了神奇所以我寫下了關於偶遇 , 預感感情 , 夢想 , 自然的力量 , 魔術的故事	i know it's filled with magic all around us , so i write down stories about encounters , sentiments , dreams , natural forces , magic .
在過去的20年間我出版了一些書籍但是直到2006年2月我的生活一直很平淡那時我在義大利冬奧會上舉著奧林匹克旗	i published books over the last two decades , but it wasn't until february 2006 , when i held olympic flags on italian winter olympics .
這讓我成為了名人 。 現在去商場也能被認出來我的孫子們都覺得這很酷	this made me a celebrity . now the mall can be recognized , and my grandsons thought this was cool .
請允許我在四分鐘內講述關於榮譽的故事	please allow me to tell stories about honor in four minutes .
奧林匹克開幕式的一位組織者通知我被他們選中作為一名護旗手	one of the organizers in the olympics opening ceremony reported that i was chosen as a flagman .
我立馬回覆說道這肯定弄錯了因為我根本就不是一位田徑運動員呀	and i immediately replied and said , " this must be wrong , because i'm not even a field player . "
其實 , 我只是不太確定在沒有柺杖的幫助下我是否能夠繞場走一圈	in fact , i'm not sure whether i can walk around without a walker's help .
他們告訴我這並非玩笑	they told me it wasn't a joke .
這將會是第一次僅僅由女性舉著奧林匹克旗	it's going to be the first time a woman holding an olympic flag .
五位女性代表了五個大陸另外還有三位奧林匹克金牌獲得者	five women represent five continents , and three olympic gold medals won .
相當自然地 , 我的第一個問題是那我穿什麼好呢 ?	so naturally , my first question was , what good do i wear ?
制服 , 她回覆道並向我詢問我的尺寸	uniforms , she responded back and asked me about my size .
我馬上想象到我穿著蓬鬆的厚夾克看上去就像個米其林男孩	i immediately thought that i was wearing a fluff jacket that looked like a michelin boy .
在二月中旬我來到了都靈市 , 在這裡成千上萬的人歡迎著來自世界的80支奧林匹克代表團	in the middle of february , i arrived at the metropolitan city , where thousands of people welcomed 80 olympic delegations from the world .
這些運動員們將會竭盡全力在比賽中競爭	these athletes are going to do their best to compete .
他們均理應獲勝 , 但是其中也存在運氣的因素	they're supposed to win , but there's something lucky about it .
一個雪斑點 , 一英尺的冰 , 風速均可以影響到比賽的結果	a snow spot , a foot of ice , wind , can affect the outcome of the game .
但是 , 最為重要的-比訓練或運氣更重要-是心	but most important , more important than training or luck , the heart .
只有永不畏懼並擁有堅強的心的人能夠獲勝	only people who are never afraid and have strong hearts can win .
這就是激情	that's passion .
都靈市的街道被紅色張貼畫給蓋滿上面寫著奧林匹克的標語	the city's streets were covered with red patches covered with signs of olympics .
激情永駐此地 。 這真的永遠是事實嗎 ?	passion resides forever . is this really forever true ?
心能夠驅使我們並決定我們的命運	it drives us and determines our destiny .
那是我在我的書中將要描述的角色擁有激情的心	that's the role i'm going to describe in my book , with passion .
我需要個性 , 異議 , 勇於冒險以及變革的角色她們提出質疑 , 脫離常規並敢於冒險	i need personality , dissent , adventure and change , and they ask questions , get out of the rules and take risks .
就像在座的各位一樣	it's like everybody in this room .
循規蹈矩的好人不會是有趣的角色	nice people with the rules won't be interesting characters .
他們只會是好的前夫	they're just going to be good former couples .
在運動場的綠色房間中我遇到了其它的護旗手三位運動員 , 以及演員蘇珊.薩蘭登和索菲亞.羅蘭	in the green room of sports , i met other flags , three athletes , and actor susan salandon and sophia loren .
以及擁有熱情的心的兩位婦女來自肯亞的諾貝爾獎獲得者旺加里.馬塔伊她種植了超過3000萬棵書 , 並透過此行為改變了非洲某些地方的土壤 , 天氣 。 當然這也改善了很多鄉村的經濟狀況	and two enthusiastic women from nobel laureate in kenya , wangari maathai , who planted more than 3 million books and changed the soil , weather in some parts of africa , and , of course , a lot of rural economic status .
以及柬埔寨活動家蘇曼麗.馬恩她傾注了一切熱情來抵抗童妓	and somanli marne , the cambodian activist , who tends to fight child prostitution .
當她14歲時 , 她的祖父將她賣到了妓院	when she was 14 , her grandfather sold her to a brothel .
她告訴我們這些被強姦的女孩若與男性發生性行為便可治癒她們的愛滋病	she told us that rape girls can heal their hiv/aids if they have sex with men .
並且妓院逼迫童妓們每天必須接五到十五位客人如果她們反抗 , 將會受到電刑	and the brothels forced kids to get five to 15 customers a day , and if they rebel , they would be sentenced .
在綠色房間中我接到了我的制服	in the green room , i received my uniform .
這並不是我平時所穿衣服的型別但是這並不是我之前所想象的米其林男孩似的服裝 。 實際上並不差	this is not the opposite of my clothes on a daily basis , but this is not what i thought of as michelin boys . it's actually not bad .
我看上去像臺電冰箱	i looked like a radio refrigerator .
所有的護旗手都穿上了制服 , 除了索菲亞.羅蘭她是公認的美麗和熱情的化身	all the flagers were wearing uniforms , except sophia loren , who was a beauty and passionate avatar .
索菲亞已經超過70歲但仍然看上去很棒	sophia is over 70 years old , but it still looks great .
她很性感 , 苗條並且很高 , 擁有古銅色皮膚	she's sexy , she's vaccinated , she's high , she's got a copper skin .
如何才能保持古銅色皮膚並且沒有皺紋呢 ?	how do you keep the ancient bronze without wrinkling ?
電視採訪時被問到: " 她怎麼看上去那麼棒 ? "	television interviews were asked , " how did she look so good ? "
她回覆到: " 姿勢 。 我的背永遠挺直 , 並且我不會發出像老年人那樣的噪音 。 "	and she replied , " posture . my back is always straightforward , and i won't make noises like the elderly . "
所以 , 現在你們得到了來自地球上最漂亮的女人之一的建議	so now you've got advice from one of the most beautiful women on earth .
不要呻吟 , 不要咳嗽 , 不要氣喘不自言自語 , 不放屁	don't moan , don't cough , don't breathe , don't talk , don't fart .
她正是嚴格按照她所說的而做的	she did exactly what she said .
在半夜的某個時候我們被叫到運動場一側廣播中傳來會旗進場 , 同時音樂響起順便提一下 , 就是跟這裡同樣的音樂阿依達進行曲	at some point in the middle of the night , we were called to the sports broadcast to come in , and the music rang , by the way , made a composition like this .
索菲亞.羅蘭就站在我前面 , 比我高一個頭如果蓬鬆頭不計算在內的話	sophia loren was standing in front of me , ahead of me , ahead of me , and if he can't calculate what's inside .
她步伐優雅 , 就像是非洲摹上的長頸鹿將旗子一端扛在肩上 , 我則在後面小跑著掂著腳 , 舉高手才勉強夠到旗子因此 , 我的頭實際上是在那旗子下面	she's elegant , like the giraffe in africa , hugging the flag on one side of her shoulder , and i'm running around with my legs , holding my hands up to the flag so that my head is actually underneath the flag .
所有的鏡頭當然是索菲亞	all the cameras , of course , are sophia .
我還算幸運 , 因為後來登出的照片中都有我的存在 , 雖然常是在索菲亞的雙腿間	i was lucky , because i landed in photographs that i existed , although often between sophia's legs .
那可是大多數男人夢寐以求的地方	that's where most men dream .
我一生中最偉大的四分鐘就在這奧林匹克體育館中	the greatest four minutes of my life were in the olympic stadium .
我的愛人聽我這麼描述 , 覺得沒有受到尊重即使我私下跟他解釋到我們的事往往還不到四分鐘所以他不應該覺得我是在針對他	my lover described me as being not respected , even though i explained to him that our work is less than four minutes , so he shouldn't feel like i'm talking about him .
我留下了那四分鐘的所有剪報因為我想永遠不忘記即使我老了 , 記憶力退化	i left all the clips i had for four minutes , because i thought i'd never forget , even though i was old , the memory deteriorated .
我也要將奧林匹克的精神銘記於心那就是 " 激情 "	i'm also going to remember the olympics' mind , and that's passion .
接下來的故事仍然與激情相關	the next story remains passionate .
來到1988年 , 地點是在一座囚營附近裡面都是剛果境內的圖西族難民	by 1988 , it was in a prison camp , and it was full of tutsi refugees in the congo .
順便說一下 , 世界上80%的難民和流民都是婦女和女童	by the way , 80 percent of the world's refugees and inhabitants are women and girls .
這些地方簡直就是剛果的死刑場即使沒有被殺死 , 最終也被病死或餓死	these places are simply the death rows of congo , even when they're not killed , and they're eventually sick or starving .
故事的主角是年輕女性羅斯.馬培德和她的孩子們	the protagonists of the story are young women ross marbed and her children .
她是一位懷孕的寡婦	she was a pregnant widow .
士兵們逼迫她親眼目睹自己的丈夫被折磨致死	the soldiers forced her to see her husband being tortured and killed .
但是她努力維持自己七個孩子的生計幾個月之後 , 她生了一對雙胞胎	but a few months after she struggled to maintain her seven children , she had a twin .
兩位小男孩	two little boys .
她用木棍剪掉了臍帶並用自己的頭髮把它繫了起來	she's cutting the umbilical cord with a stick of wood , and she's connecting it with her own hair .
她將雙胞胎命名為難民營兩位長官的名字以獲取他們的照顧 , 從而用紅茶來餵養他們因為她的奶水並不充足	she named the twins the names of the refugee camps to get their care , so they feed them with red tea because her granny was not sufficient .
當士兵衝進她的小屋並試圖強姦她的大女兒時她緊緊地抓住了她並嚴厲拒絕即使被槍抵住腦袋也仍然如此	when soldiers rushed into her hut and tried to rape her eldest daughter , she grabbed her tightly , and she refused to be tough , even if they were shot in the head .
不管怎麼樣 , 這個家庭撐過了16個月之後在運氣的幫助下得到了一位年輕美國人薩沙.查諾夫的同情心將她帶到了美國的營救飛機上羅斯.馬培德和她的九個小孩來到了亞利桑那州的菲歷克斯一直生活至今	either way , this family survived 16 months later , and with the help of luck , a young american man , sasah chanoff , brought her to rescue plane in the united states , ros marbed and her nine children came to phoelix , arizona .
在斯瓦希里語中馬培德意味著愛	in swahili , mad means love .
我的書中的主角都是堅韌且充滿熱情的婦女正如羅斯.馬培德那樣	my protagonists in my books were strength and passionate women , just as rose marbed did .
她們並非虛構 , 也沒有必要虛構	they're not fiction , they're not necessarily necessary .
在我身邊這樣的身影無處不在	it was everywhere around me .
我一生都和女性也為女性而工作	i've spent my whole life working for women .
我對她們非常熟悉	i know them very well .
很久以前我出生於很遠的地方出生於一個宗主派天主教的保守家庭	i was born a long time ago in a conservative family in the catholic catholic .
難怪我在5歲時就是熱血沸騰的女權主義者不過當時女權這個詞並不流行因此沒人知道我到底哪出了問題	no wonder i was a feminist at the age of five , but the word " feminist " was not very popular , so nobody knew what was wrong with me .
很快地 , 我就發現要想享受自由得付出極高的代價 , 還有與長輩頂嘴	and very quickly , i realized that the price to enjoying the freedom was very high , and the price to the top of the elders .
但是我還是會去頂嘴 , 因為我每次被罰時下次都會被雙倍奉還	but i still go to the top of my mouth , because i double my hand every time i get punished .
有次 , 我當時20多歲的女兒寶拉給我說女權運動過時了 , 叫我好好過日子	one time , my daughter paula , who was in her twenties , told me that the feminist campaign was obsolete , told me to live a good life .
我們為此吵了一場難忘的架 。 真的過時了嗎 ?	we have a memorable fight for this . is it outdated ?
的確 , 對於我女兒和在座各位這樣幸福的女性 , 的確是過時了不過對其他地方的姐妹們卻並非如此她們仍然在很小時就嫁人成為童妓 , 被強迫工作生下自己不想要或者養不起的孩子們	indeed , for women like my daughter and many of you in this room , it's an obsolete time , but it's not for the sisters in the rest of the world who are still married as child prostitute for very long hours , forced to give birth to children they don't want or raise .
無法掌控自己的身體和人生	you can't control your body and your life .
無法教育且沒有自由	they cannot be educated , they cannot be free .
被強暴 , 毆打 , 有時還因受罰而被殺	raped , beaten up , sometimes killed by punishment .
對如今大多數西方年輕女性來說被叫做女權主義者是一種汙辱	for most young women in the west today , being called a feminist is a stigma .
女權主義永遠不會性感 , 但我要向你們擔保我並沒有失去調情的時機並且我也很少受到缺乏男子氣概的影響	feminism is never going to be sexual , but i'm going to guarantee you that i didn't have time to flirt , and i was rarely affected by a lack of masculinity .
無論如何女權主義並沒有逝去	feminism is not dying .
它只是不斷在進化 , 如果你並不喜歡這詞的話在上帝的保佑下改變	it's just an evolutionary evolution of god's blessing if you don't like it .
改名叫愛芙羅蒂、維納斯或花瓶 , 如果你喜歡的話名稱並不重要只要我們互相瞭解並理解其含義	renaming aphrodi or venus or flower vase , if you like , doesn't matter if we understand each other and understand what it means .
我再講一個熱情但是卻悲傷的故事	i'll tell you another passion but a sad story .
這事發生在孟加拉的一個村子的小婦女診所	this happened in a small women's clinic in a village in bangladesh .
時間是在2005年	it's 2005 .
珍妮是一位年輕的美國牙科衛生員在她三個星期的假期中作為志願者來到了這個診所	jenny was a young american dentist who volunteered for three weeks on vacation .
她本來是準備去清洗牙齒但是當她到那裡時卻發現並沒有醫生沒有牙科醫生 , 診所也到處飛滿了蒼蠅	she was preparing to clean her teeth , but when she arrived , she realized there were no dentists , no clinicians , no flys everywhere .
診所外面排滿了婦女她們要等了幾個小時以看病	the clinics were filled with women who had waited a few hours to see them .
第一位病人受著劇痛的折磨因為她有幾顆臼齒腐爛了	the first patient was suffering from excruciating pain , because she had a few molars rotting .
珍妮發現唯一的解決辦法就是拔掉壞牙齒	jenny found the only solution was to pull the teeth out .
她沒有相關執照 , 之前從沒幹過這事	she had no license . she had never done it before .
她冒了很大風險並且非常緊張	she took a lot of risk and she was nervous .
她甚至沒有適合的工具但是很幸運地是她帶了奴佛卡因	she didn't even have the right tools , but fortunately , she brought slave bukhain .
珍妮有著勇敢和熱情的心	jenny had a brave , passionate heart .
她做了祈禱之後就開始進行手術	she prayed and started surgery .
最後 , 病人親吻了她的手心	and finally , the patient kissed her hand .
那一天這位衛生員拔出了很多牙齒	that day , the sanitation officer pulled a lot of teeth .
第二天 , 當她再次來到這所謂的診所時她的第一位病人正和她的丈夫一起等著她	the next day , when she came again to this socalled clinic , her first patient was waiting with her husband .
她的臉看上去就像個大西瓜	her face looked like a big cucumber .
臉腫得都看不到她的眼睛	she can't see her eyes .
她的丈夫非常憤怒 , 揚言要殺掉美國人	her husband was incredibly angry to kill americans .
珍妮對她所做到感到很驚訝但是當翻譯員解釋時病人的狀況與手術無關	jenny was surprised to do what jennie did , but when the interpreter explained , the condition of the patient had nothing to do with the surgery .
前一天 , 她的丈夫狠狠地揍了她一頓僅僅因為她沒有為他準備晚餐	the day before , her husband rushed at her , just because she wasn't preparing him for dinner .
如今還有萬千上萬的婦女像這樣生活著	today , there are tens of thousands of women who live like this .
她們是真正的最窮的窮人	they are the real poorest .
儘管婦女從事著世界上三分之二的勞力工作但是她們僅僅擁有低於1%的資產	although women do twothirds of the world's labor , they only own less than one percent of assets .
相同的工作他們的報酬比男性更低即使她們得到報酬 , 也很容易受到傷害因為她們並沒有經濟獨立能力並且她們常常受到剝削暴力以及侮辱	they're getting paid less than men , and even if they get paid , they're vulnerable , because they don't have the economic independence , and they're often exploited and insulted .
事實上如果給婦女提供教育 , 工作以及控制自己的收入 , 財產等的能力將會為社會帶來好處	in fact , if you give women education , work and control your own income , your property equality will be good for society .
如果婦女的能力得到了提升她的孩子和家庭都將會獲益	if women's abilities are improved , her children and her families will benefit .
如果家庭變好 , 村莊也會繁榮起來從而整個國家都將會變得更好	if the family gets better , the village thrives , and the whole country is going to be better .
旺加里.馬塔伊來到肯亞的村莊時	wangari maathai came to kenya's village .
她與婦女交談 , 並向她們解釋土地荒蕪的原因是因為他們砍掉了那些樹木	she talked to women and explained to them the desolate isolated because they cut the trees .
她讓婦女們種植新的樹木並且進行澆灌慢慢地	she let women grow new trees and water them slowly .
在五年或者六年後 , 他們擁有了森林土壤被催肥 , 村莊被拯救了	five or six years later , they have the forest soil being catalyzed and the villages were rescued .
在最為貧窮的社會中往往婦女位於最低層	in the poorest societies , women are at the lowest levels .
並且很明顯地是真相往往被政府所忽略同樣也被慈善事業所忽略	and obviously the truth is often neglected by the government , and also by the philanthropy .
在婦女專案得到一美元的同時男性專案卻得到了二十美元	at the same time that women's program got a dollar , men got 20 dollars .
婦女佔有人類的51%	women are 51 percent of humanity .
將婦女變強的話將會改變一切遠超過技術 , 設計和娛樂所帶來的影響	by enhancing women , it's going to change the effects of more technology , design and entertainment .
我敢保證如果婦女們一起工作相互聯絡 , 智慧並且受到過教育能夠為這個星球帶來和平和繁榮	i guarantee that if women work together , connect , intelligence , and education can bring peace and prosperity to this planet .
在當今的任何戰爭中 , 大多數受害者是平民主要是婦女和小孩 。 他們是被動受害者	in every war today , most victims are democrats , women and children . they are victims .
男性主宰世界 , 然後看著我們所帶來這一切	men rule the world , and they look at what we bring .
到底我們需要怎麼樣的世界	what kind of world do we need to do ?
這是一個我們常常捫心自問的問題	this is a question that we ask ourselves all the time .
這對已有世界秩序行得通嗎 ?	does this work for world order ?
我們需要一個珍重生命的世界並且每人都能夠有豐富多彩的生活而不僅僅是特權者的權力	we need a world of privileged life , and each one of us has a rich , colorful life , not just a privilege .
一月份我參觀了費爾南多.波特羅的繪畫展覽在柏克利大學的圖書館中	in january , i visited a painting exhibition from fernando portro in the library at berkeley university .
在美國除了紐約展覽廳沒有博物館或展覽廳會展示波特羅的作品他們沒有膽量展示這些繪畫因為繪畫主題是關於阿布格萊布監獄	in the united states , there's no museum or exhibition hall showing portero's work , and they don't have the guts to show these paintings , because the painting was about abu ghraib prison .
展覽有著大量的虐待和侮辱的繪畫在浩繁的波特羅風格中	the exhibition had a lot of paintings of abuse and insult in the vast porto style .
我沒有辦法得到這些圖象從我的腦海中或者心中	i couldn't get these images from my mind or my mind .
我最害怕的是不純潔的力量	i was most afraid of unclean power .
我害怕力量的濫用以及力量所造成的暴力	i was afraid of the abuse of power and the abuse of force .
在我們的種族中 , 男人們定義現實然後逼迫他人接受現實遵守規則	in our race , men define reality and force others to accept reality and follow rules .
規則常常發生變化 , 但總是對男性有益就這樣 , 在一致遵循的狀況下在經濟上並不成立的規則卻完美地存在	rules are changing all the time , but they're always good for men , and so in conformity , they're not economically perfectly economically well rules .
從上到下 , 一層層的力量濫用	from top to bottom , a layer of force abuse .
女性和兒童 , 尤其是貧窮的 , 就這樣處於底層	women and children , especially poor , are at the bottom .
即使是最一無所有的男人也有人被他凌虐常常是婦女或者兒童	even the most universal men were abused by him , often women or children .
我再也受不了少數人操縱多數人透過性別 , 收入 , 種族和階級的手段	i'm suffering a few people manipulating most people through gender , income , race and class .
我認為現在時機已經成熟可以根本性地改變我們的文明	i think it's time to mature , to fundamentally change our civilization .
不過若要真正改變 , 就需要讓婦女的力量參與到世界當中	but for real change , we need to engage women's strength in the world .
我們需要讓足夠的婦女擁有權力並且培養男人心中的婦女力量	we need to have enough women own power and cultivate women's strength in men .
這裡當然是指年輕男人了	and this is , of course , young men .
老男人們都沒求了 , 只能等著他們死光	the old man didn't get it , so he could just wait for them to die .
的確我也想擁有索菲亞羅蘭的長腿和著名的酥胸	indeed , i wanted to have sophia loren's long legs and famous breasts .
不過若是可以選擇 , 我寧願擁有勇敢的心像旺加里.馬塔伊 , 蘇曼麗.馬恩 , 珍妮和羅斯.馬培德那樣的	but if i had a choice , i would rather have a brave heart like wangari maathai , somali marian , jennie and rose mabed .
我想讓世界變得更好	i want to make the world a better place .
不僅僅是消極地等待改變 , 而是參與改變	not just negatively , waiting for change , but getting involved in change .
為什麼不這樣 ? 這是能夠做得到的 。 看看這裡 , 充滿了知識 , 活力 , 才華和科技	why not ? it's possible . look here , it's full of knowledge , dynamic , talent and technology .
讓我們走出冷氣房 , 捲起袖子開始行動 , 帶著我們的熱情創造一個近乎完美的世界	let's get out of the cold room , roll up our sleeves , start to act , and take our passions to create an almost perfect world .
在一個倫敦那麼大的城市裡 , 每天都要消耗掉三千萬噸糧食 。 但是 , 這些食物都從何而來 ? 建築師carolynsteel探討每天餵養一個城市的神話 , 介紹古代的食物運輸如何影響城市的形成和發展 。	in a city that's that big in london , it costs 30 million tons of food every day , but where does all this come from , and the architect carolynsteel looks at the myth of feeding a city every day , introducing how food transportation impacts the formation and development of the city .
cities , culture , food , globalissues	audience: adam , global issues .
carolynsteel:食物如何塑造我們的城市	carolyn steel: how food shapes our cities .
如何餵養一個城市 ?	how do you feed a city ?
這是我們這個時代的一個重大問題之一 。	this is one of the big problems of our time .
然而很少人會問這個問題 。	and very few people ask this question .
我們習以為常了 , 我們走進商店的時候走進餐廳的時候 , 或是一個小時後我們進入這個劇院的門廳總會有食物等著我們它們很神奇地從某個地方冒出來	we used to walk into the restaurant when we walked into the store , or an hour later , we entered theater's doorway , there was always food , waiting for us , and magically emerged somewhere .
然而 , 當你想像每一天 , 在一個倫敦那麼大的城市 , 要生產足夠的食物運輸、交易這些食物 , 烹飪 , 食用 , 最後扔棄它們而且類似的事情每天都發生著在地球上的每一個城市都如此每個城市都有食物供應 , 這件事很不可思議	however , if you imagine that every day in a city that was the size of london produced enough food transportation , trading these foods , cooking , cooking , eating , finally throwing them away , and things like that happen every day , every day , every city on this planet , so it's amazing .
我們住在每天有食物供應的城市 , 彷彿這是世界上最自然的事情 , 我們忘記了我們也是動物 , 所以我們需要進食 , 事實上我們要依賴自然界就如同我們的祖先要依賴自然界一樣 。	we live in a city that has food supply every day , as if it's the most natural thing in the world , and we forgot that we are animals , so we need to eat , and in fact we depend on nature as our ancestors depend on nature .
隨著我們越來越多人到城市生活 , 越來越多的自然界正在變成我身後的這些特別的景象這是巴西matagrosso的大豆田用來種食物養活我們	as more and more of us go to urban life , more and more natural worlds are becoming these special visions behind me , this is a soybean field for brazilmatagrosso in order to grow our food .
這些特別的景象我們很少人親眼目睹過	these particular images , few of us have ever seen them .
越來越多的這些地貌不只是生產食物養活我們	more and more of these landscapes are not just producing food to feed us .
隨著我們越來越多人移居城市越來越多人吃肉所以每年全球有三分之一的糧食現在是用來餵動物而不是餵養我們人類	as more and more of us move to cities , more and more people eat meat , so that a third of the world's food is now feeding animals rather than feeding us humans every year .
雖然說需要3倍的糧食事實上卻是10倍的食物來餵養一個人 , 如果從餵養動物的糧食也計算在內這並不是一個很有效率的餵養方式	and while it takes three times as much food , it's actually 10 times as much food to feed a person , and if you feed an animal , you know , it's not an efficient way of feeding an animal .
這是一個越來越重要的問題	it's an increasingly important question .
到2050年 , 預測有兩倍的人口將在城市居住	by 2050 , it's predicted that twice as many people will live in cities .
預測到也將需要兩倍的肉和奶類製品的消耗	it's predicted that it's going to take twice as much meat and milk to produce it .
所以肉的消耗和城市化是共同發展的	so meat consumption and urbanization are coevolving .
這就將引發一個很重大的問題	and that leads to a really big problem .
要餵養60億的飢餓人口在2050年	to feed six billion hunger people in 2050 .
這是個大問題.如果我們還像我們現在這麼發展 , 我們很可能沒法在2050年解決這個問題	it's a big problem . if we're still here , we're probably not going to solve this problem by 2050 .
每年有1900萬公頃的雨林消失它們用作開墾新的耕地	every year , 19 million hectares of rainforest disappear , and they use it to cultivate new arable land .
儘管與此同時我們也失去等量的現有耕地 , 因為鹽鹼化或水土流失	and at the same time , we're losing an equal amount of arable land because of saltification or soil .
我們也急需化石燃料	we really need fossil fuels .
在歐洲 , 我們需要10卡路里的能量來生產1卡路里為我們消耗的食物	in europe , we need 10 calories of energy to produce one calories of food that we consume .
儘管這些食物我們都是花了很多功夫才生產出來事實上我們卻不珍惜它們	although these foods are a lot of hard work to produce , we actually don't value them .
在美國有一半食物被扔棄	half of the food is discarded in the united states .
最終 , 在這漫長過程的最後我們將沒法養活我們這個地球	ultimately , at the end of this long journey , we will not be feeding our planet .
我們中10億人肥胖 , 還有多於10億的人處於飢餓中	one billion of us are obese , and more than one billion people are hungry .
這些都沒有道理	none of this makes sense .
當你發現現在80%的全球食物貿易僅由五家跨國公司控制 , 這是挺可怕的	when you find out that 80 percent of the global food trade is controlled by five multinationals , it's pretty horrible .
隨著我們搬進城市 , 世界正在接受西方的飲食	as we move into cities , the world is accepting western diet .
如果我們展望未來這不是個可持續的飲食方式	if we look at the future , it's not a sustainable way of eating .
我們怎麼會走到這一步 ?	how did we get here ?
更重要的是 , 我們應該怎麼做 ?	and more importantly , what should we do ?
先回答那個較簡單的問題 , 首先我想說 , 在大概1萬年前是這個過程的開始在古代的中東地區也就是廣大的新月狀的地區	well , the simpler question , first of all , is that it started about 10 , 000 years ago in the middle east , which is an ancient new monthly region .
因為你可以看到它是新月形的	because you can see it's a new month .
同時它也是廣大的	it's also enormous .
就在這裡 , 大概1萬年前2大偉大的發明農業和城市化在此發生幾乎在同時 , 同一地點	right here , about 10 , 000 years ago , 20 great inventions of agriculture and urbanization happened almost at the same time , at the same time .
這並不是偶然因為農業和城市是緊密聯絡的.它們需要彼此	it's not accidentally because agriculture and cities are intimately connected , and they need each other .
因為糧食的發現我們的遠古祖先 , 第一次第一次生產出足夠的糧食並且產量穩地 , 這幫助他們長期居住下來	the discovery of food was that our distant ancestors , for the first time , produce enough food and yield steadily , helping them live longtermly .
如果我們看一下當時那些居住地我們可以看到他們是緊密的	if we look at those habitats back then , we can see they're tight .
他們被農田圍繞並由一些大的廟宇統領著例如這一個在烏爾的神殿事實上 , 他們是很有效的精神統領 , 食物分發中心 , 兩者結合	they were surrounded by farms and led by large temples like this one in ur , and in fact , they were effective psychological reigns , food distribution centers , combinations .
因為這些神殿組織耕作收集這些糧食 , 供奉給諸神然後把諸神沒吃的食物發還給人們	because these temple tissues are gathering these foods , serving them to the gods , and then giving them back the food that the gods don't eat .
所以這些城市的精神和物質生活都用糧食和收成掌控並維持城市的生活	so the spirit and the physical life of these cities is used to eat and to control and maintain urban lives .
事實上 , 過去的每個城市都是如此	in fact , every city in the past has done that .
當然 , 並不是每個都是那麼小的城市	and of course , not all cities are that small .
比如很著名的羅馬城有大約100萬居民在公元一世紀的之前	rome , which is famous , has about a million residents before the 1 . d .
那麼 , 這樣的城市是如何維持供給的呢 ?	so how does a city like this supply ?
在我眼裡 , 我把答案稱作 " 古老的城市之路 "	in my eyes , i call it the " ancient city road . "
基本上 , 羅馬有通往海洋的道路這樣使從很遠的地方進口食物成為可能	basically , rome has roads to the ocean , which makes it possible to import food from a very distant location .
這樣是在古代能實現的唯一的方法因為陸上運輸相當困難鑑於路況不好	this is the only way that ancients can achieve this , because transportation is very difficult because it doesn't work well .
而且食物的消耗是很快的	and food is fast .
所以羅馬常常發動戰爭攻打像迦太基和埃及那樣的國家僅僅是為了得到他們的糧食儲備	so rome regularly launched war attacks in countries like ghamaki and egypt just to get their food reserves .
其實 , 事實上 , 你可以把帝國的擴張理解為一種長期的軍事化的購物狂歡	in fact , you can understand the expansion of the empire as a kind of longterm militarization of shopping .
事實上 , 我喜歡這個事實 。 我不得不指出的是羅馬在一個時期 。 我認為這非常特別	in fact , i love that fact . i have to argue that rome was at one time . i think that's very special .
所以羅馬形成自己的海岸線根據他的口味	so rome formed its own coastline , based on his taste .
但是還有一件有趣的事情發生在前工業化的世界	but there's an interesting thing that's happening in the preindustrialized world .
如果我們看看十七世紀倫敦的地圖我們可以看見作物從泰晤士河畔出產的位於地圖的底部	if we look at the maps of london in the 17th century , we can see crops coming out of the banks of the thames river , at the bottom of the map .
因為市場在城市的南部	because the market is in the south .
道路從那裡通向主要消費市場戚普塞街這裡也是糧食的主要消費市場	the roads went from there to mainstream consumer , relatives purse street , which is also the main consumer market for food .
如果我們隨便看看這裡的一條街道的名字bread街 , 你可以明白三百年前這裡都發生了什麼	if we look at one of the streets in this room , bread street , you can see what happened 300 years ago .
這個道理同樣使用於魚類	it's also used in fish .
魚當然是從河裡面打撈出來的	fish , of course , came out of the river .
billlingsgate是倫敦有名的賣魚市場在1980年之前	billynsgate was a famous selling fish market in london before 1980 .
這是很特別的 , 真的 , 當你仔細想想	it's very special , really , when you think about it .
每個人都在這裡遊蕩拿著像轉頭一樣的大哥大還有 , 在港口還有發臭的魚	everybody's wandering around with the big brother of rotation and the port and the stinky fish .
這是在城市中關於食物的另一件事情一旦一種食物在某個城市站穩腳跟它的地位很難被動搖	this is another thing about food in the city , and once a food is stabilized in a certain city , it's very difficult to shake it .
肉是一個非常不同的故事了因為 , 動物自己走向城市	meat is a very different story , because animals go to cities .
因此 , 倫敦消費的大量肉類是從西北方過來的從蘇格蘭和威爾士	so , a lot of meat consumption in london is coming from the northwest , from scotland and wales .
當他們過來 , 抵達城市的西北方這就說明了為什麼smithfield倫敦一個非常有名的肉類市場 , 在這裡產生	when they came , they reached the northwest of the city , which illustrates why smithfield london was a very famous meat market .
家禽從anglia的東部來 , 去往東北部	domestic avians come from the east of ananglia to the northeast .
我感覺這有點像一個天氣播報員然後鳥兒都飛過來了它們的腳被小帆布鞋包裹著	i felt like a weather announcer , and the birds flew over , and their feet were wrapped around by little canvas .
然後當它們在東部降落的時候具體說來是在戚普塞街 , 也就是它們被賣掉的地方這也就是戚普塞街被稱為 " 家禽 " 街的原因	and when they landed in the east , they specifically ended up in the relatives purse street , where they were sold , which is why the relatives purse street was called domestic bird street .
事實上 , 如果你看看任何一個城市的地圖在工業化時代之前你能夠發現食物是如何進入城市的	in fact , if you look at any map of any city before industrialization , you can see how food goes into the city .
事實上 , 你可以看出食物是如何塑造一個城市的透過閱讀街道的名稱 , 你就會發現很多線索	in fact , you can see how food shapes a city by reading the names of the streets , and you can see a lot of clues .
星期五街 , 在過去的日子中是一個在星期五買魚的地方	friday street , in the past , was a place to buy fish on friday .
但是 , 你同時也必須想象那裡到處都是食物	but you also have to think about food everywhere .
因為街道和公共區域是食物買賣的唯一地點	because the streets and the public areas are the only places that food buys .
如果你想象一下1830年的smithfield你會發現很難在這樣一個城市裡面生活下去並且不留意食物的來源	if you think about smithfield in 1830 , it's very difficult to live in a city like this and not pay attention to the source of food .
事實上 , 當你在星期日吃午飯的時候你將很有可能聽到窗外的牛羊的叫聲在三年以前	in fact , when you're eating lunch on sunday , you're very likely to hear the call from the cow outside the window three years ago .
因此 , 顯然他是一個有機城市屬於有機迴圈中的一個部分	so , apparently , he's part of an organic city that's part of an organic loop .
但是 , 10年後 , 一切都改變了	but then 10 years later , everything changed .
這是大西鐵路在1840的照片	this is a photograph of the great western railway in 1840 .
你可以看見 , 一些早期的鐵路乘客們是豬和羊群	you can see some early railroad passengers pigs and sheep .
一夕之間 , 這些動物不再走進市場	all of a sudden , these animals stopped walking into the market .
他們被屠宰了在鄉村的某個地方	they've been slaughtered somewhere in the countryside .
然後他們透過鐵路來到了城市	and they came to the city through railroads .
這些改變了一切	and that changes everything .
首先 , 他第一次使城市成長變成了可能不論地點、成為什麼規模和形狀的城市	first of all , he made cities grow , for the first time , no matter what the location , what the size and shape of the city is .
城市發展過去受到地理的限制城市需要透過很艱難的方式獲得食物	urban development used to be restricted by geography , and cities need to get food in a tough way .
突然 , 他們從地理限制中解放了出來	all of a sudden , they liberated from their geographic constraints .
你可以看看倫敦的地圖在鐵路建成後的90年它從容易餵飽的一小點透過動物步行到市場等方式成長成為大型的奢侈的大都市步行運輸再也不能餵飽每個人不論是對人還是對動物	you can see the map in london in the 90 years after the railroad was made , it went from one small dot that was easy to feed , and through animal walks to markets , it grew into a massive , luxurious metropolitan walk , and no longer feed everybody , whether it's right or animals .
當然 , 這僅僅是開始 。 當汽車代替了火車這真正標誌這個過程的結束	and of course , that's just the beginning . when the train substituted the train , it really ended .
這是城市的最終解放從自然的束縛中完全的解放了	this is the ultimate liberation of the city from the constraints of nature , completely liberated .
這樣型別的城市沒有了原來城市的味道亂糟糟的市容 , 當然也缺少了人因為沒有人想要在這麼大的一塊地方步行	this type of city doesn't have the smell of the original city , and it's also the lack of people , because nobody wants to walk in such a big place .
事實上 , 他們都開小汽車去購買食物了開車去郊外的超級市場買回來一週需要的食物然後考慮到底如何規劃這些食品	in fact , they drove all the cars to buy food , drove to the suburban supermarket and bought food that they needed for a week , and thought about how to plan these foods .
這時刻 , 食物和城市的關係 , 完全的改變了	at this point , food and cities have changed completely .
過去買食物是在市中心在城市的最核心地帶	it used to be buying food at the center of the city .
買賣食物曾經是一種社會性的活動 ,	buying food used to be a social activity .
我們原來還需要烹飪 , 現在我們只需要加水或者是一些雞蛋 , 當我們在做蛋糕或者其他東西的時候	we also needed to cook . now we just add water or some eggs , when we make cakes or something .
我們不會在去聞聞食物來確認它是否可以吃了	we're not going to smell food to make sure it's okay to eat .
我們只是閱讀包裝袋上的使用說明就好	we just read the packaging descriptions .
我們沒有發現食物的價值 , 我們也不信賴它	we don't have the value of discovering food , and we don't trust it .
我們甚至擔心它	we worry about it .
從體會它的價值變成浪費	from recognizing its value to wasting .
當今食品工業最最諷刺的是他們讓生活極致地便利卻也使得一切更為複雜	one of the ironiest things about the food industry today is that it makes it extremely convenient , but it makes it even more complicated .
因為可以自由的建立新城市但是他們卻疏遠了人可貴的聯絡也就是人與自然的聯絡	because they're free to build new cities , but they're alienated from the valuable contacts between people and nature .
同時 , 他們也讓我們依賴這個系統這個系統 , 在我們看來 , 是不可持續的	meanwhile , they also allowed us to rely on this system , which is unsustainable , in our opinion .
所以 , 我們應該做點什麼呢 ?	so what should we do ?
這不是一個新的問題	this is not a new problem .
500年前 , 湯馬斯摩爾曾經問過自己	five hundred years ago , thomas more asked himself .
這是他的書《烏托邦》的主旨	this is the essence of his book , " utopia . "
它是一個半獨立的城邦如果這麼說聽上去還比較熟悉的話一天的行走你會看見所有人農場都在瘋狂的種植或者在自己的後院種植蔬菜然後一起享用鄉鎮的共有食物 , 等等	it's a semiindependent city , and if that sounds more familiar , walking on a day , you'll see that all of the farms are growing in crazy , or growing vegetables in their own backyard , and then sharing together food in the town , and so on .
我認為你可能想要說食物是烏托邦維持秩序的基礎儘管摩爾從來沒有這麼構想	i think you might want to say that food is the basis of utopia maintaining order , although moore never had the idea .
這裡有一個很著名的烏托邦藍圖來自埃比尼澤•霍華德的 " 花園城市 "	here's a very famous utopian blueprint from " garden city . "
同樣的想法 。 一系列半獨立的城邦小型都市被可耕地包圍相互之間透過鐵路連線	same idea: a series of semiindependent cities , small cities , surrounded by arable land , connected by railroad connections .
當然 , 食物在一次被稱作維持秩序的物體 , 在他的版本中	of course , food was once called ordered objects in his version .
這些田園都市是有的 , 但與當初霍華的願景沒有關係	these are cities , but it doesn't have to do with howard's vision .
這也與烏托邦的構想產生了衝突因為他們是烏托邦	and this is also in conflict with the idea of utopia , because they're utopia .
烏托邦實際是上一個托馬斯摩爾故意使用的一個詞	utopia was actually a term used in purpose of the last thomasmore .
這似乎是一個笑話 。 因為它在希臘中有兩個來歷	this seems like a joke , because it has two journeys in greece .
他既可以表示一個好的地方 , 也可以表示一個不存在的地方	he's either a good place , or a place that doesn't exist .
因為他是一種理想 。 一個想象中的事物 。 我們不能擁有它	because he's an idea . it's an image . we can't have it .
我認為 , 這是一個觀念用來深層次的思考人類居住的問題它不是很有用	and i think this is a concept that deeply thinks about the problem of human settlement , and it's not very useful .
所以我提出另一個概念 " 希託邦 " , 在古希臘文中 " 希託 " 代表食物 , " 邦 " 是地方	so i proposed another concept , " in the ancient greek language , " tolerance " represents food , " " " praise " is local .
我相信我們已經住在 " 希託邦 " 裡面	i believe we already live in the hitopia .
這個世界是受食物影響的只要認清楚這個事實 , 食物便能成為有力的工具一個概念性的工具 , 設計工具 , 用來改變這個世界	the world is influenced by food , and if you recognize that , then food can be a powerful tool , a conceptual tool , a design tool , to change the world .
如果這樣做 , 希託邦會成什麼樣	what would it look like if you did that ?
我是這樣想的	here's how i think about it .
我用投影這張照片 , 是因為這狗長相可愛	i'm projecting this because the dog looks cute .
無論如何 , 在這裡食物是生活的重心是家庭生活的重心 , 被讚頌被享用 , 你們花時間在這上面	either way , food is the center of life , the gravity of family life , the celebration of being enjoyed , the time you spend on it .
這是食物在我們社會里應有的地位	this is where food should be in our society .
但想做到這樣 , 得先有這些人	but in order to do that , you have to have these people .
他也可以是男的	he could be a man .
這些人是會想到食物的他們會預先思考 , 做計劃看到一堆生菜時知道那是什麼	these are people who think about food , and they think ahead , and they plan to see a bunch of vegetables , and they know what that is .
我們需要這種人 。 我們都是整體的一部分	we need that kind of person . we're all part of the whole .
因為如果沒有這樣的人 , 就不會有這樣的地方	because if you don't have that kind of person , you don't have that .
我故意選了這個因為這張照片顯示一個人在買蔬菜	i chose this intentionally , because this is a picture of a man buying a vegetable .
但是整體聯絡 , 食物是當地生產的	but in contact , food is produced locally .
他是大面積的 , 也是新鮮的	he's big area , he's fresh .
這是城市社會生活的一部分	it's part of the urban society .
因為沒有它 , 你就不會擁有這樣的地方種植食物的地方也是風景的一部分他不僅僅是一個消費商品來自看不見的黑暗角落	because without it , you wouldn't have the places where you wouldn't have food , but it's also part of the landscape , and it's not just a consumer good , it comes from the dark corners
成片的牛群	it's a cow crowd .
冒著水汽的肥沃土壤	it's a fertile soil at risk for soda .
這才使一切變得完整	and that's when it gets complete .
這是一個集體的計劃我最近去了多倫多	this is a collective project . i recently went to to toronto .
在這個溫室裡 , 孩子學習關於食物的知識 , 以及他們種植自己所需的食物	in this greenhouse , children learn about food , and what they need to grow their own food .
這有一顆菜叫做凱文 , 他也許屬於一個叫凱文的小孩子 。 我不太確定	this is a dish called kevin , and he's probably a kid named kevin . i'm not sure .
但是不管怎麼說 , 這類計劃是及其重要的 , 因為他們試圖重新建立我們和自然的聯絡	but either way , these programs are important , because they're trying to rebuild our connection to nature .
因此 , 希託邦 , 是另一種觀點	so hitopia , it's a different view .
基本上 , 我們認可在某些小地方希託邦已經存在了	basically , we've recognized that in some places , the hitopia has already existed .
下一步就是將他們連線起來從食物的角度看	the next step is to connect them together , to view them from a food perspective .
如果我們這樣做了 , 城市將不再是一個不從事生產的大都市 , 像現在一樣	if we do that , cities will not be a metropolitan nonproductive metropolis , as they are now .
我們將把城市作為一個有機生產的一部分在這種架構下 , 城鄉之間以一種共生的方式連線	we're going to use cities as part of an organic manufacturing framework where rural cities connect in a symbiotic way .
但這也不是什麼大理論因為我們不需要這樣的食物產出方式了	but that's not a big theory , because we don't need to have this kind of food output .
我們需要更多的思考關於社群生態農業所以這張圖很合適來做一個結論	we need to think more about social agriculture , so this graph is appropriate for making a conclusion .
我們需要重新思考食物如何塑造我們的生活	we need to rethink how food shapes our lives .
我知道的最好的方式是這張650年前的畫	the best way i know is this painting , 650 years ago .
他是ambrogiolorenzetti提出的 " 優秀政府的寓言 "	this is ambrogio nzetti's parable of good government .
他勾畫出城市和鄉村的關係	he painted the relationship between the city and the rural .
我認為他想傳達的思想非常清晰	i think his thoughts are very clear .
如果城市照顧好鄉村鄉村就會幫助城市	if cities take care of the rural villages , they help the cities .
我希望大家都想一想如果ambrigiolorenzetti在今天再畫一張他會畫出怎樣的圖畫	i want you all to think about what it would be like if ambrigior enzetti was doing today .
現代版 " 優秀政府的寓言 " 會是什麼樣子	the modern metaphor for good government looks like this .
因為我認為這是一個緊要的問題	because i think it's a very important question .
一個我們必須提出的問題一個我們需要馬上做答的問題	a question that we have to ask is a question that we need to answer right away .
我們知道我們吃的東西很大程度上決定了我們身體狀況	we know that what we eat depends mostly on our bodies .
所以 , 我們也瞭解我們的食物決定了世界的狀況	so , we also know that our food is determining the world .
如果我們採納這個想法 , 我們可以利用食物作為一個強有力的工具來重新塑造世界	if we take this idea , we can use food as a powerful tool to reinvent the world .
當仁愛憲章發起數星期後 , 卡倫•阿姆斯特朗又將目光轉向宗教在二十一世紀所扮演的角色 。 她提出: " 宗教教義是否會使我們產生分歧 ? 抑或將我們團結在一起為了共同的利益 ? " 她回顧了能帶動全球信仰重拾恕道的催化劑 。	when the charter of compassion starts a few weeks later , karen armstrong turned to the role of religion in the 21st century , and she said , " is religious dogma making us divide , or is it going to bring us together for the common good ? "
god , tedprize , globalissues , politics , religion , tedglobal2009 , violence	ted prize , global isis suues , politics , religions , tedglobal , 2009 , violence .
卡倫•阿姆斯特朗:重拾恕道	karen armstrong: reclaim the golden rule .
多年來 , 我一直感到沮喪因為作為宗教歷史學家 , 我已經意識到世界上主要的宗教信仰都宣揚仁愛之心 。	for years , i've been frustrated because as a religious historian , i've realized that the major religious beliefs in the world have been honoring compassion .
每個宗教都演變出自己獨特的版本 , 這些統稱為恕道 。	each religion has evolved its own unique version of its own , called forgiveness .
有時從正面說 , 那就是- " 推己及人 。 "	sometimes from the positive , that's , " selfmotivate . "
同樣重要的 , 從反方面說就是-- " 已所不欲 , 勿施於人 。 "	equally important , in the opposite sense , is " don't do to people . "
審視你的內心 。 探尋究竟是什麼讓你痛苦 。 然後在任何情況下 , 都拒絕將這種痛苦施加於別人 。	scrutinize your heart , seek out what hurts you , and in any case , refuse to apply that pain to someone else .
人們之所以重視仁愛 , 不僅僅是因為它聽起來很棒 , 更是因為它行得通 。	people value compassion , not just because it sounds great , but because it works .
人們發現當他們遵守恕道時正如孔子所說的 " 終生行之 , " 這已不是隻做一天好事然後又回到貪婪、自私的生活的問題了 。 當你每天都堅守恕道的時候 , 你就可以擺脫以自我為中心的世界 , 超然於物外 。	people find that when they follow forgiveness , as confucius says , " life is not a good thing to do every day and then go back to greed and selfish life , and when you hold onto every day , you can get out of the world of selfcenteredness and beyond it . "
從而可以到達稱之為神、涅盤、喇嘛、道的境界 。	that's where we get to what we call god , nirvana , lama , lama .
一些超越我們所知的自我約束的東西 。	something that goes beyond what we know .
但是 , 你知道大多數時候你對此一無所知 , 這就是宗教生活的核心 。	but , you know , most of the time you don't know anything about this , and that's the core of religious life .
因為世上的一些特例 , 經常的 , 當宗教人士集聚在一起的時候 , 宗教領袖聚在一起的時候 , 他們會爭辯深奧的理論或者發表充滿仇恨的言論又或譴責同性戀等此類問題 。	because some of the world's specific exceptions , often , when religious people come together , religious leaders come together , and they debate esoteric theories or publish hate speech or denounce gay speech or whatever .
通常人們不具有仁愛之心 。	people don't usually have compassion .
有時 , 當我跟眾多宗教人士交談時 , 我注意到他們的臉上經常會閃現一絲輕蔑之色 , 因為人們往往都自持正確 。	sometimes when i talk to many religious people , i notice that their faces often shine out of contempt because people tend to be right .
這當然違背了修行的目的 。	this , of course , goes against purpose .
我為什麼對ted那麼感激呢 ?	why am i so grateful for ted ?
因為ted溫柔地將我從滿是書本的書房帶到了二十一世紀 , 讓我能夠可以向更多 , 更廣的觀眾演說這比我能設想到的多得多 。	and because ted gently brought me from a room full of books and into the 21st century , i was able to speak to more and more broad audiences more than i could ever have dreamed .
因為我對此感到迫切 。	because i was urgent .
假若我們不設法在全球實施恕道 , 這樣我們就能對待所有的人 , 無論他們在哪裡 , 他們是誰 , 都如同對待我們自己一樣重要 , 我懷疑我們能否將這個世界傳承給下一代 。	if we don't try to implement golden globally , then we can treat all of us , no matter where they are , just as important to ourselves , and i wonder if we can pass this world to the next generation .
我們當前的任務 , 最為艱鉅的任務之一 , 就是建立一個全球性的社會 , 就像我所說的 , 在這個社會里 , 人們可以和諧相處 。	one of the biggest tasks we have right now is to build a global society , as i said , in a society where people can relate to it .
而宗教 , 本應做出主要貢獻的 , 卻被視為問題的一部分 。	and religion , which should be doing primary contribution , is seen as part of the problem .
當然 , 不只是宗教人士才相信恕道 。	and of course , it's not just religious people who believe in forgiveness .
道德觀念皆源於此 。 這種富有想象力的共鳴 , 將可使你與他人進行角色互換 。	the idea of morality comes from this resonance , this idea of imagination , that will make you exchange roles with others .
在我看來 , 我們現在有了個選擇 。	in my view , we now have a choice .
我們既可以奉行 , 或強調我們信仰中教條和偏執的方面 , 抑或可以回到拉比的時代 , 拉比希勒爾 , 出生在比耶酥還早的時代 , 當他被一位異教徒要求單腳站立著歸納整個猶太教義的時候 , 他說: " 勿對旁人做出連自己都憎惡之事 。	we can either practice or emphasize the aspects of faith and paranoia , or return to the era of rabbi , the era of rabbi hilller , born before bijal , when he was asked by a pagan , to stand up to the whole of jewish teachings , and he said , " don't resent yourself to the side .
這就是托拉的全部 , 餘下的都是註釋 。 "	that's all tora , and all the rest of it is registered . "
拉比和早期的神父們皆言任何一種將經文解釋為產生仇恨和輕蔑的釋義都是非正統的 。	rabbi and the early priests said that any one of the priests explanated the scripture as a unorthodox release of hate and disrespect .
我們需要找回那種精神 。	we need to retrieve that spirit .
它不會因我們有了仁愛之心而就此出現 。	it doesn't happen because we have the heart of compassion .
我們得讓它出現 , 我們能做到的透過ted引用的現代交流技術 。	we've got to make it happen , and we can do all the modern communication that's referred to at ted .
我已經從我的夥伴那收到各種各樣的回應 , 這讓我很振奮 。	i've received all kinds of responses from my fellow partners , and i'm excited .
在新加坡 , 有一個小組正要採用仁愛憲章來消除新加坡社會新近出現的分歧 , 一部分新加坡議會成員則想從政治上實施仁愛 。	in singapore , a group is adopting a compassionate charter to eliminate the recent divide in singapore's society , and some of the members of the singapore are trying to implement compassion from politics .
馬來西亞將會舉辦一場藝術展覽 , 屆時 , 頂尖的畫家們將會帶領人們 , 年青的一代 , 展示給他們仁愛也根植於所有的藝術中 。	malaysia is going to have an art exhibition , and at that time , the top painters will lead people , the young generations , showing them compassion and embedded in art .
整個歐洲和穆斯林組織都在舉辦各種各樣的聚會和集會 , 討論伊斯蘭教和其他信仰中的仁愛之心 。	all over europe and muslim organizations are holding a variety of gatherings and gatherings , discussing the heart of compassion in islam and other faiths .
但我們不能僅止步於此 。 不能就這樣淺嘗轍止 。	but we can't stop there . we can't just do that .
宗教教育才是我們犯錯的地方 。 它只關注那些晦澀的教條學說 。	religious education is where we make mistakes , and it only pays attention to the obscure doctrines .
宗教教育總是一定要指向實際的行動 。	religious education always points to action .
我願意至死不渝地為此而努力 。	i'm willing to die on this constantly .
我還想和我的夥伴再做兩樣事情--培養和激發富有仁愛性的思考 。	i want to do two things with my partners cultivating and inspiring compassionate thinking .
要教育 。 因為我們如此地遠離了仁愛 。	education , because we're moving away from compassion .
人們往往只是簡單地認為它就是同情別人 。	people tend to just simply think of it as empathy .
當然你不能領會仁愛的含義 , 如果你僅僅是想想罷了 。	of course you can't learn what compassion means if you just think about it .
你必須要身體力行 。	you have to be physical .
我想讓媒體也參與進來 , 因為媒體具有關鍵的作用在消除我們看待其他人時所持有的一些陳舊的觀點 , 正是這些觀點讓我們彼此分開 。	i wanted to get the media involved , because media has a critical role to eliminate some of the old views that we hold when we see other people , and they're the ones that separate us from each other .
這對於教育者也具有同樣的作用 。	it's the same for educators .
我想讓年輕人們知道富有仁愛的生活方式是充滿活力和挑戰的 。	i want to let young people know that the lifestyle of kindness is dynamic and challenging .
同時也讓他們看到這也需要敏銳的智慧 , 而不僅僅是一種感傷的情懷 。	it also shows them that it also requires sharp intelligence , not just a sadness .
我想呼籲學者們以他們自己和其他人的傳統觀點來探討仁愛這一主題 。	i want to call on scholars to talk about compassion in their own conventional wisdom about it .
也許最重要的是 , 去鼓勵對肆言<unk>辱的敏感性 。 這樣一來 , 因為人們有了這個章法 , 無論他們信奉什麼 , 或者他們沒有信仰 , 他們都會覺的如有神助可以挑戰這種無情的言論 , 蔑視這些來自宗教領袖、政治領袖和業界領袖的肆言 。	perhaps most importantly , encouraging sensitivity towards comfortable statements , so that people have this chapter , no matter what they believe , or what they don't have faith , they have no faith , and they have no religion , and they have a sense that helpfulness to confront this relentless speech that comes from religious leaders , political leaders and business leaders .
因為我們能夠改變這個世界 , 我們有這個能力 。	because we can change the world , we have this ability .
我從未設想過將憲章上傳至網路 。	i never thought of uploading a charter to the internet .
我仍舊困於舊世界中 , 與一大堆研究人員集聚一室發表另一種鮮為人知的言論 。	i'm still stuck in the old world , gathering together with a bunch of researchers to publish another littleknown speech .
不過ted介紹給我一種全新的 , 讓我思考和表達我的想法的方式 。	but ted introduced me to a whole new way of thinking and expressing my ideas .
因為那就是ted的奇妙之處 。	because that's the amazing thing about ted .
這個房間內 , 各行各業的專家們如果我們能夠凝聚在一起 , 我們就可以改變這個世界 。	in this room , all walks of professionals , if we can come together , we can change the world .
當然 , 有些時候問題看起來是不可逾越的 。	of course , sometimes the problem looks insurmountable .
但我想引用一句話以作為結束一位英國作家的話 , 一位來自牛津的作家 , 我不常引用他的話 , 他就是c•s•劉易斯 。	but i want to quote by saying that as a british author , a writer from oxford , i don't often quote him , he's c . s . lewis .
但他有一句話卻深深地印在我的腦海中 , 當我還是一名小女孩時我所讀到的一句話 。	but he had this phrase that was so deeply remaining in my mind , that i read this sentence when i was a little girl .
這句話來自他的著作《四種愛》 。	it comes from his book , " the four loves . "
他說 , 他區分了愛慾 。 當兩個人相互對視 , 著迷地看著對方的眼睛 。	he said he distinguished the desire , and when two people viewed each other , he was obsessed with looking at each other's eyes .
然後他將此與友情進行對比 。 當兩人肩並肩地站在一起時 , 且雙方都朝著一個目標努力時 ,	and then he contrasted that to friendship , and when both sides stood together side by side , both sides stood up toward a goal .
我們不需要愛上對方 , 但可以成為好朋友 。	we don't need to love each other , but we can be good friends .
我深信不疑 。	i doubt that .
我強烈地認為在韋沃的小型審議中 , 當懷有不同信仰的人們來到一起 , 工作在一起為了一個共同的目標 , 差異就消融了 。	i strongly believe that in small reviews in weowa , when people of all different faiths come together to work together for a common goal , the differences disappear .
我們學會了和睦相處 。	we learned to be along with each other .
我們學會了同他人一起生活並瞭解對方 。	we learned to live together and understand each other .
非常謝謝 。	thank you very much .
為了完成《羅馬異事》這篇付諸畫卷的名城讚美詩 , 大衛•麥考萊經過了怎樣一段曲折甚至詭妙的歷程呢 ? 請聽他本人娓娓道來	in order to finish the remarkable hymn poem by david mccoley , how did david mccoley go through a piece of twist and even a bizarre journey , please listen to himself .
macarthurgrant , art , arts , book , cities , communication , culture , design , entertainment , humor , storytelling	macarthur gurant , art art art , studying , studying , communication , playing on the scale , mindfulness , humor , storytelling .
我畫畫是為了把事情弄得更明白	i'm drawing to make sense of things .
有時候畫得很多卻不明白自己究竟畫的是什麼 。	sometimes a lot of painting doesn't understand what it is that you're drawing .
你們中間喜歡用數碼產品的甚至是以此為豪的人 , 可能聽了我說會吃驚:我因為畫了《傻瓜通科技》出了點名 , 可是在準備這書的座談會的時候自己花了兩天才讓電腦和燒錄機願意合作 。	in the middle of you , the digital products even the proud ones , who may have heard me say it surprised me to name it after drawing " the idiot technology , " but when preparing for this book , it took two days for the computer to cooperate with the burning machine .
你們誰知道什麼 " 擴充套件程式管理器 " ?	how many of you know what a programmer is ?
我從來都是自己折騰這些外掛就從來沒想過去讀說明書不過倒是自己摸索出來了 , 不然怎麼行呢因為在每次受邀參加活動的同時都要得到一個可怕的提醒:現場可沒有錄影放映機所以我的轉盤帶子就白帶了不得不用其他法子 。	i'd never thought i'd ever folded up these plates , but i just touched it , because at the same time that i was invited to participate in an event , there was a terrible reminder that there was no shadows on the screen , so my plate was white , and it was necessary not to use any other method .
我本可以談談我的成名作品可是它看起來似乎更適合留心科技的人們要麼我可以談我在乎的東西	i could have talked about my famous work , but it seems that it looks better for the people who care about technology , or i could talk about something that i care about .
我決定選擇後者 。	i decided to choose the latter .
我的話題是羅馬 。	my topic is rome .
為什麼是羅馬不是別的什麼呢 ?	why is rome something else ?
這麼說吧 , 我在羅德島設計學院讀的建築那還是60年代下半段的事	well , i went to rhode island school of design institute , which was the second half of the 1960s .
夠幸運的是:我臨畢業那年 , 就是第五年是在羅馬度過的 。 這改變了我的一生 。	luckily , i graduated from the year fifth year in rome , and it changed my life .
挺重要的一點是改變了我上學在家兩點一線的生活--開車去學校 , 再開回來 。	and one of the things that really mattered was that i went to school at two o'clock , drove to school and drove back .
我想念60年代 。 有時還讀寫60年代的書那是個有趣的時代 , 真想念它 。 在羅馬的一年也是非比尋常 。 是個時常讓我懷念的地方 。	i miss the '60s . sometimes it's an interesting time to read '60s , to really miss it . it's an extraordinary year in rome . it's a place i missed .
一旦有點機會我就要在羅馬 , 或者為羅馬做點事兒	if i have a chance , i have to do something about rome or rome .
我畫畫來幫大家理解一些東西	i'm drawing to help people understand something .
希望人們相信我懂那些東西 。	i hope people believe that i know those things .
這就是插圖畫家的工作 。 我的本行 。	that's what illustrators do .
所以讓你們看看羅馬的一些畫	so let me show you some paintings from rome .
這些年來我畫了許多羅馬的畫	i've done a lot of rome paintings over the years .
畫歸畫 , 我也儘量經常回羅馬看看必須這樣 。	i painted as much as i could go back to rome to see that .
那些不同的材料、風格、時期畫畫草圖 , 注意羅馬的各種細節	those different materials , styles , timed sketches , pay attention to the details of rome .
我給你們看這些或許因為它們有助於解釋我的經歷表達我對羅馬的感情和如此感受的原因 。	and i'm showing you all this because they help explain why i'm expressing my emotions and feelings about rome .
一些小細節就這樣被記錄下來 。	little details were documented .
羅馬是個充滿驚奇的城市 。	rome is an amazing city .
我這裡指的是不尋常的觀察角度比如說蜿蜒的窄街突然引向巨大的 , 滿溢著陽光的廣場--這些廣場大得驚人	i'm talking about unusual observations like winding narrow streets , which suddenly lead to enormous , spilled , sunshine square these plazas are incredible .
或許因為人們讓它有機地成長 。	maybe because people grew it organically .
新與舊如此奇特地並立建築之間漏下的幾線光芒似乎在你的腦海裡產生一幅遊動的地圖--通常是藍色的 , 尤其在夏天--比起你平時在街上看到的是如此得不同 。	some of the light leaking out between the new and the old and the building seems to be generating a wandering map in your mind usually blue , especially in the summer than you would normally see in the street .
我尋思如何讓讀者身臨其境 。	i seek to think about how we can bring the reader in .
分享我這奇異的 " 羅馬感 " , 我所體會的羅馬 ?	sharing my strange sense of rome , what do i know about rome ?
這是羅馬的一些死<unk>	this is some of the deadliness of rome .
讓你們知道在羅馬如果不熟悉路 , 恐怕很長時間也到不了目的地	you know , in rome , if you're not familiar with the road , you're afraid it's not going to be there for a long time .
這是張小地圖--開始我就想到了地圖 。 或許該畫一個小地理圖收錄羅馬城裡我最愛的街巷	this is a little map and i thought about maps at the beginning , maybe it's a little geographical map of my favorite alley in rome .
這兒的一行字我弄成了一輛小摩托車噴出的尾氣	here's a line of text , and i've made a little motorcycle puff out of it .
這行字轉過了一座噴泉這幅畫正過來倒過去都行 。	this line of text spinning through a fountain , and this painting is coming back and forth .
這行字可以是一個故事給這些圖添上一些人性的溫情 。	this line of text can be a story to give some humanity to these graphs .
或許我應該拋開地圖坦誠展示我偏愛的羅馬的那些部分就這麼踢上一腳球 , 就像羅馬許多廣場上能看到的一樣讓它彈來彈去 。 而我來解釋球彈到的不同東西 。	maybe i should throw away the map and show the parts of my favorite rome and just kick a ball like the parts of the roman square could see , and let it bounce around , and i'm going to explain the different things that the ball hits .
看起來像是個雕蟲小技 。	it looks like a sculpture trick .
可是儘管我剛開始這麼畫 , 這卻不是我嘗試的首個方案 , 我有點急得飢不擇食了	but although i started this painting , it wasn't the first thing i tried to do , i was a little bit hungry .
最終我發現沒有什麼可依賴的內容就決定把注意力轉向包裝	eventually , i realized there was nothing to rely on , and i decided to turn my attention to the packaging .
對於好多小東西這招還挺奏效的 。	and this works really well for so many small things .
於是我想一個書箱裝四本小書的設計挺巧的	so i thought a book box was designed pretty accidentally .
但是後來產生的一個想法是坐在不同交通工具上用不同速度穿越羅馬 。 展現羅馬城的各個角度	but one of the ideas that came out of these various transportation vehicles came at different speeds across rome , showing the different perspectives of the city of rome .
比如你在飛船上鳥瞰羅馬的景象 。	like , you're looking at rome on a flying boat .
或者邊搶拍各種東西的照片邊在摩托上疾馳 , 或者是慢慢地看步行於羅馬 , 你能更細緻入微地欣賞那些美妙的線條和難以名狀的東西	or photographing all sorts of things on the motor , or slowly looking at the walk in rome , and you'll be more nuanced looking at these wonderful lines and incredibly famous things .
不管怎樣 , 我回到了那個飛船的點子上	anyway , i went back to the idea of the ship .
找了找航空先驅杜蒙的資料	i looked for data from aeronautically pioneered dumon .
找到了一個他設計的夠大的飛行器用它做一個標尺和羅馬城的東西放一塊兒 , 顯出它們的尺寸	he found one of the largest aircraft that he designed , and he used it to make a tag and a thing in rome , and put a little bit of it , showing the size of it .
飛船就飛越或者從旁邊飛過或者停在它們前面 , 作用就像一把尺子--橫穿全書--儘管不是尺子 。	the vehicle flys past or from the side , or stops in front of them , and it acts like a ruler running across the book even though it's not a ruler .
並不是要告訴你11號飛船有多長而是你能把它和萬神殿相對照或者和卡拉卡拉浴室對照等等等等 , 如果你樂意的話 。	instead of telling you how long the 11th ship is , you can compare it to the pantheon , or you can compare it to the kara bathroom , etc . , if you're happy .
這位是碧翠絲 , 她有隻狗叫阿賈克斯 。 她買了一艘飛船 , 小型飛船她正在組裝各部件 。 阿賈克斯鑽進氣球用鼻子檢查有沒有漏洞	this is beatrice . she has a dog named ajax . she bought a flying vehicle , a small vehicle , and she's assembling all the components . ajax drills into the balloon , checking with a nose .
她在西班牙階梯上起飛開始空中的環城旅行	she took off on the steps of the spanish steps and started traveling in the air .
我們就飛越了西班牙階梯	we flew over the spanish steps .
這樣展示山丘上淌下的河流小溪真好 。	it's great to show the streams pouring down the hills .
不走運的是 , 路對面剛好就是馬可•奧略留記功柱你現在知道飛船的直徑有多大了正如你所見 , 她開始閱讀記功柱上環繞的故事靠得有點太近了 , 就碰了它一下	unfortunately , the opposite of the road happened to be marcus o'real , and you now know how big the diameter of the flying ship was , and as you can see , she started reading the story of the cylinder , kind of close , and touch it .
這個場景讓我能畫出馬可•奧略留記功柱的結構其實不比那一堆房子高又高又密的房子 , 在聖依那爵廣場上空看來--整個毀了對稱感 , 可是除了這點--是個超棒的地方 。	this scene allowed me to paint the structure of marcus olympus not as tall and dense as the pile of houses , which looked up on the piazza square in san jihad the whole ruin of symmetry but aside from that it's a wonderful place .
廣場是個超棒的畫框 , 透過那裡面 , 通常來說你看到特別蔚藍的天 。	the square is a fantastic frame , and through that , you're usually looking at an extraordinary blue sky .
在萬神殿和它直徑26英尺的天孔上方	it's a pantheon with its 26foot diameter hole .
她停下飛船 , 放下纜繩爬下來近距離地觀察 。	she parks her flying boat , lowers the cable and climbs down to observe closely .
文字從右起 , 又是上下顛倒的 , 你就不得不把書倒過來 , 於是你能從地面的角度和她的角度 , 望向天孔這倒是種別樣的視角 。 這讓你在空間中移動 。 而尤其適合在一幢正好包含著球體的建築裡 , 直徑的尺度都和從地面的中心到天孔的中心的距離相等 。	the words are upside down from the right , and you have to pour the book , so you can look from the ground's perspective and from her perspective , and look at the hole this is a different perspective , and this gives you a sense of space , and especially in a building that's perfect for a sphere , which is the diameter and the distance from the center of the earth to the center of the pore .
有點不妙 , 纜繩纏在了一些正在參觀萬神殿的童軍的腳上他們立刻就被拽了出去開始一段特別又驚險的觀光旅程從他們的角度看來羅馬城的石拱自然而然就是上下顛倒的	unfortunately , the wires wrapped up on the legs of the pantheon , and they immediately got yanked out and started a very extraordinary , extraordinary tour journey from their perspective , the rocks of the city of rome , naturally upside down .
他們一到達聖依華教堂就下船了 , 就是那個螺旋形的結構 。	as soon as they arrived at the sãiwa church , they dropped the boat , and that spiral structure .
她則繼續遊覽到了那佛那廣場	she went on to travel to navona .
在trespalini飯店看到一大群人這提醒她該吃午飯了 , 她也餓了	and at the trespalini hotel , she saw a bunch of people that reminded her to eat lunch , and she was hungry .
他們繼續駛向鮮花廣場 , 很快就到了 。 小狗阿賈克斯被放在籃子裡吊下來 , 隨身帶了張食品採購清單就進了市場直到下午一點 , 市場都生意紅火接著一溜煙地就收攤了到第二天六七點才會回來 。	they carried on to the korean square , and pretty soon , the dog ajax was hanged in the basket , and then he took a list of food to the market until the afternoon , and the market ran out of smoke , and it took him to six o'clock the next day .
還別說 , 小狗還真把東西帶回了飛船 。	and don't say , the puppy actually took it back to the flying vessel .
不幸的是當她撕開火腿包裝的時候 , 阿賈克斯撲了上來 。	unfortunately , when she tears the ham , ajax lungs up .
最終火腿倒是得救了 , 可是搏鬥過程中桌布掉了下去你看它飄到左上角去了 。	ultimately , the ham is rescued , but the tablecloth fell down and you see it flying to the top left .
他們決定乾脆就不要桌布吧 , 於是想找個地方降落吃午飯 。	they decided to just don't have a tablecloth , so they wanted to find a place to land for lunch .
最後發現了一堵巨牆上面都是小洞 , 用來停泊飛船挺理想的因為你好繫繩子 。	and it turns out that there's a giant wall with these little holes that are used to park a ship , which is ideal for you to tie a rope .
回頭發現那居然是大競技場殘留的外牆 。 他們就在此停船 , 飽餐一頓順便欣賞美景 。	and it turns out that it was the remaining outside wall of the coliseum , where they parked , and they enjoyed the landscape .
吃過了飯 , 他們又起錨出發了穿過卡拉卡拉浴室 , 飛越了城牆從一個廢棄的門樓裡面橫貫而過 。 接著又要去看一眼賽斯提烏斯的金字塔它頂上插了杆避雷針 。	after lunch , they struck anchor through the bathroom of caracalla , flew over the wall from an abandoned doorway building , and then to see the pyramid of cestius's pyramid , which plugs a roller on top .
這時麻煩來了:他們靠得有點兒太近了--開飛船的時候切記要小心尖頭物體 。	and here's the problem: they get a little bit too close to driving while they're driving while they're trying to be careful about spiky objects .
她的小故事看來要告一段落了 。	her little story seemed to end .
另一個人 , 馬爾切洛大概是個懶漢 , 不過他中午才需要去上班 。	marcello , another guy , was probably a lazy guy , but he didn't have to go to work in the afternoon .
鬧鐘響的時候已經12點缺5分了 。	the alarm bells are missing at 12 o'clock .
他就起床 , 上車 , 揚長而去駛過和平聖母教堂 , 過街穿巷從遊人身邊掠過 。 每次上班都把羅馬靜謐的后街生活完全打亂 。	he gets up , he gets up , he gets up to the church of santa maria della church , and he travels through the alleys and travels through the alleys , and every single time at work , he messes up the quiet remains of rome's quiet
我希望這幅圖能表現這傢伙的速度--又是一張正著倒著都能看的圖 , 因為下面上面都有字而有一邊的字是倒著印的 。	i want this picture to be able to show this guy at the speed of a positive upside down , because there's words on the bottom , and there's words on the bottom .
他一路向前 , 接近了一個毫不知情的侍者正端著兩碟子扁麵條澆了種精緻的白葡萄酒蛤蜊醬汁他正走向酒店街邊座位上的客人 。	along the way , he approached an unknown server with two plates on the edge of a fine white wine clam juice who was walking to the seat of a hotel .
侍者反應過來了 , 不過為時已晚 。	the waiter reacts , but it's too late .
馬爾切洛一往無前 。	marcello was gone .
從現在起他看到的一切都跟麵條扯上了點小關係 。 不過還得繼續走 , 上班要緊 。	everything that he sees from now on has a little bit to do with the dough , but it has to go on , and it's tight to work .
一路上拆了些腳手架--它們是羅馬依然保留著獨特風韻的原因:人們的修葺施工以及保護城市規劃結構的決心 。 羅馬持續成長來適應不同時代的需要它自覺地如此 , 我們也加以推動 。	and along the way , some of the legal scaffolds they're the reason rome still remains uniquely blurry construction and determination to protect the structure of the city , and rome continues to grow and adapt to the needs of the different ages , and we're pushing them .
你看他橫穿羅通達廣場 , 在萬神殿前弄得一陣雞飛狗跳 , 終於到了 。	you can see him jumping across the rotonda square , chicken dog jumping in front of the pantheon and finally arriving .
我們發現馬爾切洛是64路公交車的司機 。 如果你坐過64路車你就知道這車開得跟馬爾切洛的摩托一個德性 。	we found that malcello was the driver of 64 roads , and if you've ever been on 64 roads , you know it drives virtue with malcello .
最後是卡爾萊託--他的公寓在左上角	and finally , carletto , his apartment in the upper lefthand corner .
他正凝視著桌子 。 今晚要向他談了40年的女友求婚他希望一切都做得盡善盡美	he's looking at the table . i'm going to talk to him tonight about marriing my girlfriend for 40 years , and he wants everything to be done well .
他擺開了蠟燭 , 放好了鮮花正想著該把杯盤放在哪兒 。	he opened the candle , put the flower on the line , thinking about where to place the plate .
可是他並不開心--還缺點什麼 。	but he wasn't happy what was missing .
電話響了--叫他去palazzo 。	the phone rings call him to palazzo .
他快步走去不過跟馬爾切洛相比 , 他簡直在晃盪 。	he was walking very quickly , but he was swaying very closely , compared to malcello .
卡爾萊託真是無人不曉:他是娛樂界的--準確地說 , 是搞電視的 。	karletto really nobody knows that he's entertainment he's making television accurately .
大家都認識他是因為他負責修電視 。	he was known because he was responsible for television .
每個人都有他的電話 。	everybody has his phone .
終於到了 , 他來到大門那兒	and finally , he came to the gate .
走進院子 , 和看門人聊了起來看門人說樓裡出大事兒了電視機壞了個遍可是即將有一場足球大賽大家都耐不住了 , 怕錯過比賽 。	walking into the yard , talking to the gatekeepers , looking at the gatekeeper and saying that something was broken in the building , but there was going to be a big soccer game , and people couldn't help , and they were afraid of missing a game .
於是他下到地下室檢查電線從那兒一路忙到樓頂 , 挨家挨戶地檢查每一臺電視一臺臺地查想找出問題所在	so he went down to the basement and checked the wire from there all the way to the top , all the way to the top , every house , every television , and he wanted to find out what was wrong .
他一直往上查 , 終於到了主樓梯又一個小些的樓梯 , 到了閣樓 。	he kept looking up , finally at the staircase and a smaller staircase , to the attic .
開啟窗戶 , 當然當然 , 有張桌布掛在整樓的電視天線上 。	opening the window , of course , is a tablecloth hanging over the tv antennas of the building .
他把它拿掉 , 問題就解決了樓裡的大夥兒都很開心 。	he took it away , solving the guys in the building was happy .
並且他也解決了自己的問題 。	and he solved his problems .
桌子佈置停當 , 他現在要做的就是等她出現 。	the table set up pause now , and all he's going to do is wait for her to show up .
這是我的第一個嘗試 , 不過好像分量還不夠傳達我想表達的對羅馬的理解	this is my first attempt , but it's not enough to convey what i mean by rome .
所以我想 , 好吧 , 我就先畫廣場 , 然後鑽進去、挖下去展示那些深層中發展著的塑造了這座城市的力量 。	so i thought , okay , i'll just do a square , and i'll go inside and dig down and i'll show you the power that's really shaping this city .
後來我又覺得太複雜了 。 不行 。 我權且用我最喜歡的那些地方把它們畫到萬神殿裡去 , 保持原尺寸你就能看到聖依沃堂和賽斯提烏斯金字塔還有布拉曼特的小禮拜堂的尖頂 , 都在這裡並列 。	and then i got too complicated . no . and with my favorite places , i drew them into the pantheon , i drew them to the pantheon , i kept it in size , and you could see the pyramids of sanwaue and the pyramids of cestius and the tops of bramante , which were here and listed .
這又是一幅畫 。 呵呵 , 我想或許是時候讓皮拉內西見見埃舍爾了 。	again , this is a painting . well , i think it's time for piranesi to meet the ether .
其實你看我有點控制不住作品的走向了 , 信心也隨之減退 。	in fact , you see me slightly overwhelming , confidence loses .
而有一縷藍色的煙氣彷彿是貫穿整書的線索 , 把一切系在一起了 。	and a strand of blue smoke was like a clue through the whole book , which brought it all together .
我突然意識到:等等 , 我在幹嘛呢 ?	and i suddenly realized: wait a minute , what am i doing ?
書不光是積存資訊的便捷工具它還是一系列的層次 。	books are not just a convenient tool of accumulating information ; it's a series of layers .
你總是一層層地剝開來--一頁頁書 , 某種程度上是在 " 剝 " 。	you're always peeling a layer a page of a page , in a way , " peel . "
想象那些層次 。 羅馬是個有層次的地方--橫向的層次 , 縱向的層次 。 而我想 , 如果 " 剝 " 開一頁書就能--如果你跟著我的思路--就能展示出這些層次的深度就好了	i think of rome as a layer of layers , horizontal layers , vertical layers , and i thought , if you peel a page , you can if you follow my thoughts you can have these layers of depth .
羅馬大多數建築用牆面的灰泥把許多個世紀的傷痕遮掩了這些建築一直在改變用途而不是被拆掉	the mud in most of the buildings in rome covers the wounds of many centuries , and the buildings have been changing their purpose rather than being demolished .
如果我在左半頁做一個摺疊頁 , 你把它開啟 , 就看見了所謂傷口下面的組織 。	if i make a fold page on the lefthand side of the page , you turn it on , and you see what's called the lower wound .
比如說在1635年的一層 , 你就能看到把窗戶改小的重要性因為壞人們要來了 , 或者是別的什麼原因 。	for example , on a layer of 1635 , you can see the importance of changing the window because the bad guys are coming or whatever else .
這些變化都埋藏在了表面的灰泥之下 。	these changes are buried under the clay of the surface .
我只要剝掉這幢樓的一層你就知道里面發生了什麼	i just peel the building , and you know what's happening there .
可是更重要的是 , 這還能告訴你那些雄偉建築的角落裡都有些什麼這麼些巨大的石塊--以及磚頭和灰泥冒充的假石塊 , 它們可更加常見 。	but more importantly , it also tells you about the giant stones in the corners of those magnificent buildings and the fake stones filled with bricks and bricks and mud , which are more common .
所以這書就有一點點3d了 。	so it's a little bit 3d .
我能把你從一條窄街上送進一個豁然開朗的廣場 , 用個雙扇摺疊就行 。 雙扇摺疊頁--如果你和我一樣小時候喜歡讀這種立體書--你恐怕想把頭伸進去	i can send you from a narrow street into a piazza with a double double doublefolding page if you're like me to read this 3d book as a child you're afraid you want to stick your head in .
把頭埋在書裡那一刻你就置身於廣場上了 。	you bury your head in the book and you're in the square at that moment .
我實在沒有做什麼更復雜的東西了摺疊頁已經是最複雜的了	i haven't done anything more complex , and the folding page is already the most complex .
不過接著我想 , 我或許可以簡單一點兒	but then i thought , well , maybe i could be a little bit simpler .
我們來看看萬神殿和前面的羅通達廣場	let's look at the pantheon and the rotonda square in front of it .
這是完全攤開的一本書 。	it's a book that's completely open .
要不是我把書整個開啟 , 要是我只翻開九十度 , 我們就在俯視萬神殿的正面 。 彷彿是在天上往下看廣場 。	either i open the book , if i just flip 90 degrees , we're looking over the front of the pantheon as if we were looking down at the square .
如果我把書換一個方向我們的視線就穿過廣場看到萬神殿的正面	if i switch the book in a direction , we look through the square and we see the front of the pantheon .
沒有摺疊 , 沒什麼把戲--只是本沒完全開啟的書 。	there's no folding , there's no tricks just books that aren't opened completely .
我覺得這個不錯 , 值得一試甚至可以和摺疊頁結合起來用 。	and i think this is good , and it's worth trying to even combine it with a folded page .
於是我們進了萬神殿內部書就這麼擴充套件著 , 延續著 。	so we went into the pantheon , and the book was so extensive , and it continued .
我猜我可能走對路了 , 只是原來的人情味兒丟了	i guess i've probably walked the right way , but i've lost my sentiment .
所以我回到故事的表現方式要是想讓別人集中注意讀你的書 , 同時又能學到東西 , 講故事這個方法不錯 。	so i went back to the way story behaves when i wanted people to pay attention to their books , and to learn something at the same time , and it's a great way to tell stories .
突然想到《鴿子之旅》是個好標題	and it struck me that " pigeon's trip " was a great title .
如果這是一隻回家的鴿子書名應該叫荷馬的《奧德修紀》的	if this is a pigeon coming home , it's called homer's " odyssey . "
不過這是它的旅行--	but this is its journey .
--題目管用的話 , 就是它了 。 這將會是一次穿越羅馬之旅把我喜愛的羅馬的一切展示出來 。	it's it's a journey through rome to show everything i love about rome .
就是這隻教堂頂上的鴿子	this is a pigeon on top of this church .
白天飛走 , 做做鴿子該做的事 , 再飛回來--腳手架和綠色防護網把家封死了 。 沒轍 , 回不了家了	fly away during the day , do what pigeons do , fly back , the footsteps and green net , and they're dead .
成了流浪鴿 。 於是它必須找個新家 。 這給了我機會畫出我鍾愛的那些地標 。 我們從較高的那些開始	so it had to find a new homeless pigeon . and that gave me the opportunity to draw the landmarks i loved .
不過有可能它還是得回去和家人團聚--不過這不一定是好事 。 這樣鴿子們又在一塊兒了 。	but it's probably going to have to go back and reunite with family , but it's not necessarily a good thing .
我就想:這有點兒意思可是應該有個人也來參與一下 。	and i thought , " well , that's a little bit interesting , but somebody should be involved in this . "
我就虛構了這個老傢伙一輩子都用來照顧生病的鴿子	and i built this old guy who's been taking care of sick pigeons his whole life .
他訪遍全城尋找它們 。 危險的地方也在所不辭 。 鴿子和他交上了朋友 , 也學會了在午飯的時候做些把戲逗他玩 。	he visited the city to find them , and the dangerous places didn't , and pigeons made friends with him , and learned to do tricks with him at lunchtime .
漸漸就產生了真摯的感情人與鴿的友誼 。	increasingly , there's a real bond between people and pigeons .
不幸的是老人病了 , 病得很重 。	unfortunately , older people got sick , very sick .
他曾經教鴿子們拼他的名字aldo	he used to teach pigeons to spell his name , aldo .
它們在三四天沒見著他之後就去找他 。 他住在一個小閣樓上 。 鴿子們繞著圈子拼出他的名字 。	they went to him after three or four days of not seeing him , and he lived on a little garret , and the doves spell his name out of the circle .
他也終於有了點精神爬梯子到房頂上所有的鴿子在那兒等著他 , 就像《紅氣球》裡拍的一樣它們帶著他飛走了 , 飛過城牆 。	he finally got a little bit of a spiritual climbing ladder on the roof of the house , waiting for him , just like in " red balloon " they took him off , flying over the wall .
過去他每次--這點我忘了說了每次死了一隻鴿子的時候 , 他就把它送到城牆外面去 。	every time he did this i forgot to say that every time he died a pigeon , he sent it outside the wall .
在羅馬的老傳統裡 , 去世的人從來不埋在城牆之內 。	in the old tradition of rome , the people who died were never buried within walls .
這真是個讓人高興的故事 。	it's a really nice story .
現在這本書進展不少了	now there's a lot of books going on .
不管怎麼說 , 我總算是想通了 。 如果說包裝並不起作用而講故事才是正道書名也該有點效果 。 我希望書的標題能來一個完美開局	nonetheless , i sort of figured it out . if packaging doesn't work , then storytelling titles work a little bit better .
而它也真的讓我花不少功夫我還得設計一個標題頁 。	and it really helped me do a lot of work , and i had to design a headline .
這一頁頁零碎的畫最終把我引向了答案:這是一個年輕女人的故事她用回巢的信鴿送了一封信--她住在羅馬城外--要把信捎給城內的一個人 。	this page was eventually quoted me to the answer: this is a young woman's story , and she sent a letter to a pigeon from the nest she lived outside of rome to give a message to someone in town .
信鴿沿著阿庇安公路上空飛過 。	the pigeon flew over the afujan road .
你能看到古墓、松柏和其他的林林總總 。	you can see the sum of the ancient tombs and pines and others .
如果你看見那條紅線 , 那就是鴿子的飛行軌跡你看不見紅線的時候 , 你就是那隻鴿子 。	if you see that red line , that's the trajectory of the pigeon you can't see the red line , you're the pigeon .
此時讓讀者身臨其境既是必須的又很可行像這樣足不離地就飛越城市 。	at this point , it's necessary and viable to have readers fly over cities like this .
過了塞斯提烏斯金字塔--哪怕你最近沒去過羅馬這些都會很熟悉 。 過了門樓	after the cestius pyramid even if you haven't been to rome recently , this will be familiar .
有一點倒是挺奇怪的	one thing that's pretty strange .
這隻鴿子做了一件其他鴿子歸巢時不做的事:它選擇了一條觀光路線 。 這個設計用來把書延長個四頁再好不過了 。	this pigeon did something that other pigeons wouldn't do: it selected a tourist route , which was designed to extend the book by four pages .
於是我們環繞大競技場一週 , 飛過希臘聖母堂和海格力斯神殿 , 向臺伯河飛去	so we went around the coliseum for a week , flew over the santa mariago chamber and the hagles temple , flew to the gallery .
差點撞上法尼榭宮的飛簷這是米開朗基羅的大作 , 是用大競技場拆下來的石頭建的 。 好險啊 !	almost crashed on the roof of the palazzo , michelangelo's big work was made out of stones removed from the coliseum .
然後我們俯瞰鮮花廣場	and then we look down at the plaza .
我很樂意把這個給我的學生看因為這完全是瞎胡鬧--把所有的透視法都拋在腦後	i would love to show this to my student because it's completely blind and leave all of the perspective behind .
而我認為唯一重要的透視法就是只要看上去可信 , 你就成功了 。	and i think the only important perspective is by looking believable , you succeed .
不過你要是硬要找消失點在哪兒有些恐怕在火星上 , 還有別的--別的幾個--跑到克雷莫納地區了 。	but if you're struggling to find out where the vanishing points are , some of them are afraid to be on mars , others to go to cremona .
鴿子進入廣場 , 飛到和平聖母堂前面這兒任何時候都有球賽上演我們就不幸中彈	pigeons enter the square , flew in front of santa maria della hall , where every time there's a ball game , we played unfortunately .
這個是我被足球擊中的景象 , 畫得很爛	this is me hitting a soccer ball , and it's bad .
我畫上了它的各個部分 。 和平聖母堂 , 足球 , 鳥翅膀的一小部分 。 沒感覺得重新來 。	i drew all the parts , the virgin church , the soccer ball , the bird's wings . i didn't feel like i was coming back .
如果你想看清楚和平聖母堂--像這樣的書很靈活 , 很方便互動--只要把它掉個個 , 從另一面看	if you want to see the santa maternity hall , which is a flexible , convenient book like this , just turn it around and look at it from the other side .
穿過巷子 , 你能看見撞擊的效果體現在紅線上 。	through the alley , you can see the impact is now on the red line .
然後鴿子在中世紀的塔樓上空調整了過來--為數不多現存的中世紀塔樓了--然後它飛向了--名字怎麼忘了--聖依<unk>斯蒙難堂轉過俯瞰那佛那廣場的圓頂我們已經見過這兒了 。 這是皮拉內西的四條河流的雕塑 。 接著是博羅米諾絕妙的聖依華堂 。 在萬神殿直徑26英尺的天孔上停下休息剛夠穿上口氣來 。	and then pigeons rolled over the medieval tower for several existing medieval towers and flew towards the name of sacred municipalia , and looked down at the dome of that square , which we've already seen . this is the sculpture of the four rivers in pinezi . and then it's the sacred ymphony hall of boromino , who just stopped at 26 feet in the pantheon .
我們可以在殿內盤旋 , 因為是在飛此時就不用擔心重力了 , 這幅圖的朝向可以隨心所欲 。	we can circle inside the temple , because we don't have to worry about gravity at this point , and this picture can be anything we want .
飛過耶穌堂的時候鴿子開心起來--它如此模仿這個建築並不令人奇怪 。	it's not surprising that the pigeon flew over jesus edges happily it mimics this building .
飛過一堵牆 , 它充滿著我前面提到的 " 古今並立 " 的風味霓虹燈的 " 飯店 " 招牌上方就是些漂亮的雕刻 。	flying past a wall , it was filled with this beautiful sculpture that i mentioned earlier with the neon smell of " hotel " above " signs .
最終我們來到了palazzo的前庭也就是目的地 。	we end up at the courtyard of the palazzo , which is where we are .
鴿子穿過庭院 , 飛進窗戶 , 飛上閣樓有個人正在畫板上畫畫 。	pigeons went through the courtyard , flew into the window , and somebody was drawing on the attic .
他從鴿子腿上把紙條拆下來 。 紙條是這麼寫的	he took the notes off the legs of the pigeon .
我們看到了那個畫板上面畫著的其實就是鴿子飛行的軌跡圖 , 紅線串聯起沿途的地標 。	and what we see in that board is actually the trajectory of the pigeon flight , the red line associated with the trajectory .
如果你想了解更多 , 給你的虛擬旅途畫上句號只需要讀讀書後的這些段落 。	if you want to learn more about virtual journeys , all you have to do is read these paragraphs .
非常感謝 。	thank you very much .
mit研究人員斯凱拉•蒂比茨從事自我裝配的研究一個取代建造東西的主意 , 我們能創建制作自己的材料 , 很像dna鏈打包的方式 。 目前還是一個巨大概念的早期階段 ; 蒂比茨向我們展示了三個還在實驗中的專案 , 我們可以一窺一個自我裝配的未來可能的樣子 。	the mit researcher , skeratibitz , who works selfassembling , is an idea that we can create materials that are very much like the dna link package , and we're still at the earliest stages of a giant concept ; tibiz shows us three programs in the experiment that we can glimpse into the future of selfassembly .
斯凱拉•蒂比茨:我們能製作可以製作自己的東西麼 ?	skera debitz: can we make things that we can make ourselves ?
今天我想向各位展示未來我們製作東西的方式 。	i want to show you today how we make things in the future .
我相信很快我們的建築和機器將能自我組裝 , 自我複製和自我修復 。	i believe soon our buildings and machines will selfassemble , selfreplicate and selfrepair .
因此我要向各位展示我所認為的製造業的當前狀況 , 接著再將其與一些自然系統比較 。	so i'm going to show you the current state of what i think of as manufacturing , and then compare it to some natural systems .
那麼在當前的製造業中 , 我們有摩天大樓兩年半的時間 , 50萬至上百萬個部分 , 非常複雜 , 使用了在鋼鐵 , 混凝土和玻璃方面的新技術 。	so in the current manufacturing industry , we have skyscrapers for two and a half years , 500 , 000 to million parts , very complex , using new technologies for concrete and glass .
我們有令人激動的機器 , 可以帶我們進入太空五年時間 , 兩百五十萬個部分 。	we have exciting machines that can take us into space five years , 2 . 5 million parts .
但另一方面 , 如果看看自然系統 , 我們有擁有兩百萬種類型的蛋白質 , 能在一萬納秒內摺疊起來 , 我們能在大約一小時內對帶有三十億鹼基對的dna進行復制 。	but on the other hand , if we look at the natural system , we have two million types of proteins that can fold up in 10 , 000 nanoseconds , we can reconstruct three billion base pairs of dna in about an hour .
這就是我們自然系統的複雜性 , 但它們非常高效 , 比我們建造的任何東西都要高效 , 比我們能建造的任何東西都要複雜 。	this is the complexity of our natural systems , but they're very efficient , much more efficient than anything we can build , much more complicated than anything we can build .
它們在能源方面更加高效 。	they're much more efficient in energy .
它們很少犯錯 。	they rarely make mistakes .
他們能自我修復保持長壽 。	they can selfrepair longevity .
關於自然系統有件超級有意思的事情 。	it's super interesting to talk about natural systems .
如果我們能將其轉換為我們的建築環境 , 那麼我們構建事物的方式就會有很大的潛力 。	if we can convert it into our architecture environment , then there's a great potential for how we construct things .
我認為關鍵是自我組裝 。	i think the key to selfassembly is selfassembly .
如果我們想要在自身的身體環境中利用自我組裝 , 我認為有四個關鍵因素 。	if we want to use selfassembly in our own environment , i think there are four key factors .
第一個是 , 我們需要解碼我們所要建造的東西的所有的複雜度也就是我們的建築和機器 。	the first is that we need to decode all the complexity that we want to build , our buildings and machines .
我們需要把它們解碼成簡單的序列基本上就是我們的建築運作的dna 。	we need to decode them into simple sequences that are basically the dna of how our buildings work .
接著我們需要可程式設計的部分這部分能接受這一序列並用於摺疊或是重塑 。	and then we need parts of programmable programmable parts that can accept the sequence and use folding or reimagining .
我們需要一些能量來進行啟用 , 使我們的這些部分能夠依照程式摺疊起來 。	we need some energy to start by folding these parts in the same program .
我們需要一些型別的糾錯冗餘以保證我們成功建造的就是我們想要的 。	we need some kind of error redundancy to guarantee that what we're successful at building is what we want .
因此 , 我要向各位展示一些我和我的同事正在進行的要實現這種自我組裝的未來的專案 。	so i'm going to show you some projects that my colleagues and i are working on to make this selfassembly future .
頭兩個專案是macrobot和decibot 。	the first two projects are macrobot and decibot .
這些專案都是大規模可重構機器人8英尺 , 12英尺長的蛋白質 。	these projects are all reconfigurable robots eight feet , 12 feet long protein .
它們嵌入機電裝置 , 感測器 。	they're embedded in electronics , sensors .
你需要把想要摺疊的方式解碼成 , 解碼成一系列角度負120度 , 負120度 , 0度 , 0度 , 120度 , 負120度 , 這類的東西 ; 一系列角度 , 或轉向 , 可以用電線把這個次序傳過去 。	you need to decode the way you want to fold it into a series of angles that are 120 degrees minus 120 , minus 120 degrees , zero degrees , minus 120 degrees , minus 120 degrees , a series of angles , or twists , and you can use wires to transmit this sequence .
每個單元獲取自己的訊息比如負120.它進行旋轉 , 檢查是否旋轉到位然後把序列傳給它的鄰居 。	each unit takes its own message like minus 120 . it rotates , checks if it spins to its neighbor .
有許多傑出的科學家 , 工程師 , 設計師為這個專案工作 。	there are a lot of brilliant scientists , engineers , designers who work on this project .
我認為這一專案真的揭示出:這真的可擴充套件麼 ?	and i think this project really reveals: is it really scalable ?
我是說 , 花費數千美元許多人時來製造這個八英尺的機器人 。	i mean , it cost thousands of dollars to build this eightfoot robot .
我們真的能擴大它麼 ? 我們真的能在每個部分中都嵌入機器人麼 ?	can we really expand it ? can we really embed robots in all parts ?
下一個問題是看看被動性 , 或被動地嘗試讓重組具有可程式設計性 。	the next problem is to look at passiveness , or passively try to make recombinations programmable .
但它更進了一步 , 它嘗試進行實際計算 。	but it goes even further , and it tries to do actual computation .
基本上嵌入了多數計算的基礎構建模組 , 數字邏輯閘 , 直接進入各個部分 。	basically embedded in most computational building blocks , digital gates , directly into each other .
這是與非門 。	it's not a gate .
每個要用於計算的門上都有一個四面體 , 有兩個輸入四面體 。	each of them has a tetrahedron on the door of computation , with two inputs .
其中一個是來自使用者的輸入 , 就像你在構建磚塊 。	one of them is the input from the user , just like you're building blocks .
另一個是來之前前放好的一塊磚的輸入 。	the other is a brick input that was previously introduced .
接著它會給出三維空間的輸出 。	and then it comes out to three dimensions of space .
這意味著使用者以他們想要的方式堆砌磚塊 。	it means that users build bricks in the way they want .
它依據之前所做的和你的指令進行計算 。	it calculates based on what you've done and what your commands have done .
現在它開始在三維空間內移動上或者下 。	now it starts moving up or down in three dimensions .
看左面 , [1 , 1]的輸入等於0輸出 , 表示向下 。	look at the lefthand side , [1 , 1] input equals 0 output , and it goes down .
在右邊 , [0 , 0]的輸入是1輸出 , 表示向上 。	on the righthand side , [0 , 0] input is one output , expressing upward .
因此這真正的的意味是我們的結構中現在包含了我們想要構建的藍圖 。	so what this really means is that our structure now contains the blueprints that we want to construct .
因此關於想要構建的事物的資訊已經全部嵌入其中 。	so the information about what we want to construct has embedded in it all .
這意味著我們有了某種形式的自我複製 。	that means we have some form of selfreplication .
對這種情況 , 我稱之為自我導向複製 , 因為你的結構中包含了精確的藍圖 。	in this case , i call it selfdirect copying , because your structure contains the exact blueprints .
如果遇到錯誤 , 你可以替換一個部分 。	if there's a mistake , you can replace a part .
所有的本地資訊都嵌入其中 , 告訴你如何修復它 。	all local information is embedded in telling you how to repair it .
因此你有個可以攀爬的東西 , 能讀出它並一個一個的輸出 。	so you have something that can climb and read it and output one by one .
它是直接嵌入的 ; 沒有外部指令輸入 。	it's directly embedded ; there's no external input .
我要展示的最後一個專案名為偏心鏈條 , 它可能是我們現在看到的被動自我裝配系統中最令人激動的例子 。	the last project i'm going to show is called the paranoid chain , and it's probably one of the most exciting examples of passive selfassembly systems that we're seeing right now .
它具有可重構性和可程式設計性使它成了為了一個完全地被動系統 。	it has reconstructability and programmability that makes it so for an entirely passive system .
基本上就是你有了一連串的元素 。	basically you have a series of elements .
每個元素都是完全相同的 , 且它們是偏心的 。	each element is completely identical , and they are preferred .
每個鏈條 , 或每個元素想要向右轉或是向左轉 。	each chain , or every element wants to turn right or left .
如果你要裝配鏈條 , 需要為它程式設計 。	if you want to assemble the chain , you need to program it .
要告訴每個單元是要左轉還是右轉 。	tell each unit to turn left or right .
當你搖動這個鏈條時 , 它就摺疊起來程式設計你所為它編碼的任何結構因此這種情況下 , 一個螺旋體 , 火這種情況 , 兩個相連的立方體 。	and when you shake this chain , it folds up , and it programs whatever structure you code for it , so in this case , a spiral , fire , this situation , two cubes connected .
基本上你可以在三維空間內程式設計或是一維、二維這鏈條是完全被動的 。	basically , you can program this in three dimensions or onedimensional or twodimensional strands that are completely passive .
這向我們預示了怎樣的未來呢 ?	what's the future for us ?
我認為這告訴我們這些在我們的身體結構、我們的建築和機器中這種自我裝配、自我複製和自我修復的可能性 。	i think what this tells us is the possibility of selfassembly , selfreplication and selfrepairing in our bodies , our buildings and machines .
在這些部分中有新的可程式設計性 。	there's new programmability in those parts .
從中你能獲得計算的新可能性 。	there's a new possibility of computation .
我們將有空間計算 。	we will have spatial computing .
想象一下我們的建築、橋樑、機器 , 所有的磚塊都能進行實際計算 。	imagine our buildings , our bridges , our machines , all of these bricks can actually compute .
多麼令人驚奇的平行計算和分散式計算能力和新的設計可能性啊 。	what an amazing parallel computing and distributed computing power and new design possibilities .
這是項令人激動的潛力 。	it's an exciting potential .
我認為這些我向各位展示的專案僅僅是邁向未來的一小步 , 如果我們為一個新的自我組裝的世界實現了這些新技術的話 。	i think these projects i've shown you are just a tiny step towards the future , if we make these new technologies available to a new selfassembly world .
我們已踏上過月球 , 我們已測繪了大陸 , 我們甚至已去過海底最深處--兩次 。 還剩下什麼值得我們的下一代去探索 ? 生物學家和內森•沃爾夫提出了這樣的答案:幾乎所有事物 。 " 我們可以從那小到看不見的世界開始 " , 他說 。	we've stepped on the moon , we've mapped the continent , we've even gone to the bottom twice . what's left worth exploring ? biologists and nathan wolf asking the answer: almost everything . " we can start from that little to the world , " he said .
biodiversity , exploration , microbiology , science	it's disease , it's state , it's microbial , it's geographical .
內森•沃爾夫:還有什麼值得探索 ?	nathan wolf: what else is it worth exploring ?
最近我去了威斯康星州的伯洛伊特市 。	i recently visited berloyte , wisconsin .
我去那裡是為了紀念一名20世紀的探險家 , 羅伊•查普曼•安德魯斯 。	i went there to commemorate a 20thcentury explorer , roy chapman andrews .
當他在美國自然歷史博物館的時候 , 安德魯斯領導了一系列對未知領域的探險 , 比如說在這裡的戈壁灘 。	when he was at the museum of natural history , andrews led a series of expeditions for the unknown , like the gobi beaches here .
他是個了不起的人物 。	he was an amazing figure .
他後來據說是印第安娜瓊斯角色的原型 。	he later came to be the prototype of indiana jones .
當我在威斯康星州的伯洛伊特市的時候 , 我給一群中學學生上了一堂公開課 。	when i was in burroyt , wisconsin , i gave a group of middle school students a public class .
我現在想告訴你們 , 如果真的有什麼比在ted做演講還難的話 , 那就是嘗試保持他們的注意力一群上千個12歲的孩子 , 並保持45分鐘 。	i want to tell you right now that if there's something harder than giving a ted talk , it's trying to keep their attention a thousand 12yearolds and stay for 45 minutes .
在我講完之後 , 他們問了很多問題 , 但有一個讓我自始至終難以忘記 。	after my talk , they asked a lot of questions , but one of them made me never forget .
有個小女孩站起來 , 問了一個問題: " 我們該去哪裡探索呢 ? "	a little girl stood up and asked the question , " where should we explore ? "
我想我們中的絕大多數有種觀念 , 那就是 , 地球上的大探索時代已經結束 , 我們的下一代人應該去外太空或者海洋最深處從而去尋找值得探索的東西 。	i think the vast majority of our ideas are over , and our next generation should go to outer space or the deepest depth of the ocean and look for things worth exploring .
但真的是這樣嗎 ?	but is that true ?
真的沒有重要的地方留給我們探索了嗎 ? 整個地球上都沒有 ?	is there really nothing important for us to explore , and there's nothing on the planet ?
這讓我回憶起我最喜歡的生物領域的探險家之一 。	it reminds me of one of my favorite explorers in biological fields .
他是位未知世界的探索家 , 馬丁努斯•威廉•拜耶林克 。	he's an explorer of the unknown world , martin nus william william bellelick .
拜葉林克當初想找出引起菸草花葉病的原因 。	and byye linker wanted to figure out why tobacco caused leaf disease .
他提取了受過感染的菸草汁液 , 然後讓這些汁液經過一層比一層更細的過濾 。	he took the infected tobacco sap , and he let the sap through a much thinner layer of filter than a layer .
他得出一個結論 , 剩下的裡面一定有什麼東西它們比那時最小的已知的生命形態--細菌 , 還要小 。	he came to the conclusion that there must be something in there that is smaller than the lifestyle of the time bacteria , smaller .
他給這個神秘的東西起了個名字	he gave this mysterious thing a name .
叫它們 , 病毒在拉丁文裡是 " 毒藥 " 的意思 。	call them , the virus in latin is " poison . "
在發現病毒之後 , 拜耶林克為我們打開了一個全新的世界 。	after discovering the virus , jeerlink opened us a whole new world .
我們現在知道病毒構成我們星球上絕大部分的遺傳資訊超過所有其他生命的遺傳資訊的總和 。	we now know that viruses make up most of the genetic information on our planet more than the sum of all other living genetic information .
而且顯然已經出現了無數有關病毒的切實應用在這個世界上--像天花的根除 , 子宮癌的疫苗的降臨--我們現在知道它大部分是由乳頭瘤病毒引起的 。	and it's clear that there's an enormous amount of incidence of virus applications in the world things like the eradication of smallpox , the vaccine decline in cervical cancer we now know that it's mostly caused by sarcoma .
而且拜耶林克的發現可不是500年前的事情 。	and byellerink's discovery was not 500 years ago .
拜耶林克發現病毒這件事也就發生於100多年前 。	this happened more than 100 years ago byeller .
也就是說當汽車都已經出現在世的時候 , 我們還不知道這種構成了我們星球上大部分的遺傳資訊的生物 。	that means that when the cars are already there , we don't yet know that this is the genetic information that makes up most of the genetic information on our planet .
我們現在有些很了不起的工具來幫助我們探索未知世界 , 像基因深度測序 , 可以讓我們不只是停留在表面來看自某個特定物種的獨立基因組 , 而是研究整個基因組--我們身體裡面和周邊無處不在的微生物群落 , 並且記錄下這些物種的遺傳資訊 。	we now have some amazing tools to help us explore the unknown world , like deep sequencing , that allow us not just to remain on the surface to look at the independent genomes of a particular species , but to study the entire genome the entire community of microbes that are everywhere in our bodies and document the genetic information of these species .
我們可以應用這些技術來研究從土壤到皮膚和它們中間的一切 。	we can use these techniques to study everything from soil to skin and everything in between .
在我所在的機構裡面 , 我們現在經常這麼做 , 來尋找暴發的原因 , 那些我們還不清楚的原因.	in my institutions , we do this now often to find the causes of this explosion , the reasons that we don't know .
稍微給你們講下這是怎麼做的 , 想象下從你們每個人那裡取一個鼻腔分泌物標本	i'm going to give you a little bit of how this works , think of a snout secretion specimen from each of you .
像這種事是我們經常做的 , 為了尋找呼吸道病毒 , 像流行性感冒病毒 。	things like this are things we often do to find respiratory viruses , like flu .
我們首先看到的是海量的遺傳資訊 。	the first thing we see is the amount of genetic information .
如果我們開始仔細看看這些遺傳資訊 , 我們會看到一些常見的資訊當然了 , 有很多人類的遺傳資訊 , 但也有很多細菌和病毒的資訊 , 大部分是你鼻子裡面完全無害的東西 。	if we start looking at these genetic information , we see some common information , of course , a lot of human genetic information , but a lot of bacteria and viruses , mostly harmless things in your nose .
但我們也會看到一些非常非常讓人吃驚的東西 。	but we'll also see some very , very surprising things .
當我們開始研究這些資訊 , 我們會發現你鼻子裡面20%的遺傳資訊跟我們所見過的東西--任何植物 , 動物 , 真菌或者細菌 , 都對不上號 。	and when we started looking at this information , what we found was that 20 percent of genetic information in your nose was inherited to anything we've seen any plant , animals , fungi , bacteria , just not a number .
我們基本上對這些一無所知 。	we basically don't know anything about that .
我們這裡的一小部分研究這些資料的人們 , 稱呼這些資訊為生物暗物質 。	a small portion of the people who studied this data call this information biological dark matter .
我們知道以前從未見過這些生物暗物質 ; 這似乎可以被稱之為我們自己遺傳資訊裡的未知大陸 。	we know we've never seen these biological dark matter ; it seems to be what we call the unknown continents in our own genetic information .
而且數量非常之多 。	and it's very large .
如果你認為你鼻子裡面20%的遺傳資訊有很多生物暗物質 , 那當我們看你內臟的時候 , 那有將近40%到50%的生物暗物質 。	if you think that 20 percent of genetic information in your nose has a lot of biological dark matter , then when we look at your internal organs , that's nearly 40 to 50 percent of biological dark matter .
即使在相對無菌的血液裡 , 也有1%到2%的資訊是暗物質--無法被歸類 , 無法被判別類別 , 跟我們所見過的東西都不同 。	even in relatively sterile blood , one to two percent of the information is dark matter cannot be classified , cannot be categorized , cannot be categorized , is different from what we've seen .
開始我們以為這是人為的東西 。	we start thinking it's a human thing .
這些基因深度測序工具相當比較新 。	these genetic depth sequencing tools are quite new .
但當它們變得越來越來精確 , 我們認為這些資訊是一種新的生命 , 或者至少某一部分是種生命 。	but as they get more and more accurate , we think that this information is a new life , or at least a part of it is a life .
即使這些關於解釋生物暗物質的存在的假設還處於嬰兒期 , 一個讓人非常非常激動的可能性存在著:那就是藏在這個生命裡面 , 在這些遺傳資訊裡 , 有一種沒有被識別的生命的標識 。	even though these assumptions about explaining the existence of biological dark matter are still in the infancy , a very , very exciting possibility exists: hidden in this life , there is an unrecognized sign of life in these genetic informations .
當我們探索這些一串串a/t/c/g嘌呤的時候 , 我們也許會發現全新的生命 , 就像拜耶林克 , 從根本上改變我們對生物學特性的理解 。	when we explore these cascades of a/c/gurine purineineine , we may find entirely new life , like bayeringk , fundamentally changing our understanding of biology .
這也許會讓我識別出困擾我們的某種癌症的原因 , 或者識別出我們不熟悉的疾病暴發的根源 , 或者創造出一種分子生物學的新工具 。	this may identify the cause of a cancer that bothers us , or identifies the root cause of an unfamiliar disease or create a new tool in molecular biology .
我很高興的宣佈 , 和我的斯坦福、加州理工和舊金山加利福尼亞大學的同事們一起 , 我們正在開始開始一個新的行動去探索生物暗物質來尋找新生命的存在 。	i'm pleased to announce that with my colleagues at stanford and caltech and my colleagues at the university of san francisco california , we're starting a new action to explore the existence of biological dark matter .
100多年前 , 人們還不知道病毒的存在 , 這些包含我們星球上大部分遺傳資訊的生命形態 。	over 100 years ago , people didn't realize that viruses existed , and they included most of the genetic information that we have on our planet .
一百年以後 , 人類可能為我們以前完全不瞭解的新的生命形態而感到驚訝而它們就在我們眼皮底下 。	a hundred years later , humans may be surprised by a new form of life that we've never understood before and they're underneath our eyes .
沒錯 , 我們或許已經繪製這個星球上所有大陸板塊的地圖 , 我們或許已經發現了當前所有的哺乳動物 , 但這並不代表地球上沒什麼好探索的了 。	yes , we may have mapped all of the continental tectonics on this planet , and we may have discovered all of the mammals that are currently being discovered , but that doesn't mean there's nothing to explore on this planet .
拜耶林克和像他一樣的人們給下一代探索者上了重要的一課----給那些像那個在伯洛伊特市的女孩一樣的人們 。	bayerich , like him , gave the next generation of explorers an important lesson to the girls like that in berroet .
我想如果總結一下他給我們上的這一課 , 大概是:不要假設我們現在想到的東西是一個完整的故事 。	and i think if he summarizes this lesson that he's given to us , it's like , don't assume that what we're thinking about is a whole story .
在不管你選擇的任何領域裡去探索那些暗物質吧 。	in any area you choose to explore those dark matter .
未知的事物在我們身邊無處不在它們只是在等待人類的探索 。	the unknown things are everywhere around us , they're just waiting for human discovery .
著名科學家daviddeutsh將理論物理擱置一旁 , 而對一個更為急迫的話題展開論述:人類的存續 。 他表示 , 解決全球暖化的第一步是承認我們有問題需要解決 。	david deutsh , the famous scientist , puts theoretical physics aside , and starts the case on a more urgent topic: human survival , and he says the first step towards solving global warming is to acknowledge that we have a problem .
climatechange , cosmos , culture , environment , globalissues , physics , science , technology , universe	that's what's going on , that's cosmos , that's what's going on , that's what's going on , that's what's going on , that's what physics , that's
daviddeutsch講述我們在宇宙中的位置	david deutsch tells us where we are in the universe .
主辦方要求我們大膽陳述 , 做到語不驚人死不休 。	the organizers asked us to state our language boldly , and to speak up unsurprisingly .
因此我會努力達到這一點 。 但是我想先從大家都知道的兩件事說起 。	so i'm going to try to do that , but i want to start with two things that everybody knows .
第一件事 , 事實上這是從有記錄的歷史以來就眾所周知的事 。	the first thing , actually , is something that has been known for recorded history .
這就是地球 , 或者太陽系 , 或者說我們的環境 , 或諸如此類 , 獨一無二地適合維持我們的進化 , 或者說創造 , 正如我們之前所理解的一樣--適合我們當下的生存 , 最重要的是我們未來的生存 。	this is the earth , or the solar system , or our environment , or whatever , uniquely , suitable for our evolution , or creativity , as we've just understood earlier for the survival of our present , and most importantly for our future .
今天這個概念有一個戲劇化的名字:太空船地球 。	today , this concept has a dramatic name: the earth of spaceships .
在這個概念裡 , 太空船之外宇宙不可調和地充滿敵意 , 而其內部是我們所賴以生存的一切 。	in this concept , the universe beyond the spaceship is filled with hostility , and inside is everything that we depend on .
我們只有一次機會:如果我們將我們的太空船折騰壞了 , 我們將無處可去 。	we only had one chance: if we tortured our spaceship , we would be everywhere .
第二件大家都知道的事是與我們在人類歷史中大部分時間所堅信的相反人類事實上並不是存在的中心 。	the second thing that everyone knows is that the opposite of what we believe in in human history is actually not the center of existence .
大家都知道stephenhawking說過我們只是存在於一個典型星球表面的一些化學汙垢這個典型星球環繞著一個典型恆星繞行太空 , 而這個典型恆星位於一個典型銀河系的邊緣 , 以此類推 。	you know , stephen hawking said that we are just a few chemical scums on the surface of a typical planet that orbits a typical star that orbits a typical star , and this typical star is on the edge of a typical galaxy , and so on .
大家都知道的兩件事當中的第一件大概是說我們存在於一個非常不典型的地方 , 獨一無二的適合性等 , 而第二件事卻說我們存在於一個典型的地方 。	the first of two things that everyone knows is probably that we live in a very untypical place , uniquely fit for equality , and the second thing that says we exist in a typical place .
尤其是當你將這兩件事當作生命中深刻的真理並以此作為你人生決策的依據 , 那麼他們似乎彼此有些衝突 。	and especially if you think of those two things as deep truths in your life and based on your life decisions , then they seem to have some conflict with each other .
但是這也沒法改變他們都是徹底錯誤的這一事實 。	but it doesn't change the fact that they're completely wrong .
他們就是錯誤的 。 讓我從第二件事說起:典型 。 讓我們看一下--這是一個典型的地方嗎 ? 讓我們看一下四周 , 如你所見 , 隨便超哪個方向望去 , 我們會看到一堵牆 , 還有一些化學汙垢----而這在宇宙中一點也不典型 。	they're just wrong . let me start with the second thing: typical . let's take a look at is this a typical place ? let's look around , as you can see , anywhere in the world , we'll see a wall , some chemical scum and it's not typical in the universe .
你所要做得是 , 朝著同一個方向前行數百英里然後往回看 , 你將根本不會看到任何牆或者化學汙垢--你所能看到是一個藍色星球 。 如果你繼續前行 , 你會看到太陽 , 太陽系 , 以及恆星等等 。	what you're doing is , you're walking hundreds of miles in the same direction , and you're going to look back , and you won't even see any walls or chemical scum you can see it's a blue planet . if you keep going , you'll see the sun , the solar system , and the stars and so on .
然而這在宇宙中仍然不算典型 , 因為恆星存在於星系中 。	but it's still not typical in the universe , because stars exist in galaxies .
宇宙中的大部分地方 , 或者說宇宙中一個典型的地方 , 不是任何靠近星系的地方 。	most places in the universe , or a typical place in the universe , are not anywhere near galaxies .
因此我們繼續前行 , 直到我們走出星系 , 然後再往回看 , 是的 , 你會看到巨大的星系 , 它螺旋形的觸手展現在我們面前 。	so we keep going , until we get out of the galaxy , and then we look back , yes , you'll see the giant galaxy , and it spirals in front of us right now .
而到達此地 , 我們已經跨越了十萬光年 。	and at this point , we've crossed 100 , 000 light years .
但是我們仍然一點也沒有靠近宇宙中的典型地方 。	but we're still not at all typical of the universe .
要到達典型地方 , 你需要跨越此距離的1000倍 , 直到你到達星系與星系中間的地方 。	to get to a typical place , you need to go 1 , 000 times that distance until you reach the middle of the galaxy and the middle of the galaxy .
那裡看上去是什麼樣子呢 ? 典型的 。	what does it look like ? typical .
那麼宇宙中一個典型的地方看上去是怎樣的呢 ?	so what does a typical place in the universe look like ?
在這裡 , ted不惜代價 , 給大家安排了一次高畫質晰的模擬的星系間空間的真實體驗--星系間空間的景觀 。	and here , at ted price , gives you a very highdimensional , simulated galaxy space the landscape of intergalactic space .
請將電燈關閉 , 我們就可以看到了 。	please turn the lights off , and we can see it .
不太準確 , 不是非常完美--看到了嗎 ? 星系間的空間--星系間的空間是徹底黑暗的 , 極端地黑暗 。 ♪	it's not quite accurate , not very perfect see , the intergalactic space between galaxies the space between galaxies is completely dark , extremely dark .
這個空間是如此的黑暗 , 假使你正盯著離你最近的恆星 , 這顆恆星正好發生超新星爆炸 , 當光線射到你的時候 , 假使你正直勾勾地盯著它看 , 你甚至連微弱的閃光都無法看到 。	this space is so dark , that if you're staring at the nearest star to you , this star is having a supernova explosion , and when the light hits you , if you're looking directly at it , you can't even see it even flashing .
宇宙就是如此的巨大和如此的黑暗 。	the universe is so massive and so dark .
這還沒有考慮超新星爆炸的光線是如此強烈和明亮 , 你在距離它數光年的地方會立馬斃命 。	it's not even considered the light that supernova explosions are so intense and bright , that you will be killed at a few lightyears away .
但是在星系間的空間 , 它是如此的遙遠 , 你甚至無法看見 。	but in intergalactic space , it's so far away , you can't even see it .
那裡也非常寒冷--不超過絕對零度三度 。	it's also very cold not more than three degrees above absolute zero .
什麼都沒有 。 那裡真空的濃度比目前地球上最好的技術可以產生的真空濃度的100萬分之一還要小 。 所以這就是宇宙裡一個典型的地方與這兒如何地不同 。	nothing . vacuum concentrations are smaller than one millionth the concentrations of vacuum that the best technology on earth can produce . so this is a typical place in the universe that's different from where it is .
也就是說我們現在所處的這個地方是如此地不典型 。	that's how untypical this place is right now .
請開燈 , 謝謝 。	please turn on the lights . thank you .
那麼我們如何瞭解距離我們如此遙遠的一個環境呢 ? 與我們所熟悉的一切相比 , 它是如此不同 , 如此陌生 。	so how do we make sense of an environment that's so far away , compared to everything we're used to , it's so different , so foreign .
地球--我們的環境 , 以我們這一形式存在--創造知識 。	the earth our environment , in our form , is creating knowledge .
這又意味著什麼呢 ? 向我們剛去過的地方的更遠處望去--我的意思是從這裡開始 , 利用望遠鏡--你會看到類似恆星的東西 。	what does that mean ? look at the further away from where we've been i mean from here , using telescopes you'll see things like stars .
他們叫做類星體 。 類星體原意是指類似恆星的物體 。	they're called quasars . galaxy bodies meant things like stars .
也就是說是指看上去有點像恆星的物體 。 但是他們不是恆星 。	in other words , it looks a little bit like stars , but they're not stars .
我們已經知道他們是什麼了 。 數十億年前 , 數十億光年之外 , 一個星系中心的物質朝著一個超級巨大的黑洞塌陷 。	we already know what they are . billions of years ago , a matter at the center of galaxy was collapsing at a supermassive black hole .
隨後密集的磁場對重力塌陷中的一些能量產生了導向作用 。 其中一些物質 , 以巨大的噴射流的形式逃離 , 照亮了宏偉的太空 , --我認為相當於一千億個太陽的光亮 。	and then intense magnetic fields directed some of the energy in some of the gravitational collapses , and some of the matter escaped in the form of giant jets and lit up the magnificent space i think that's the equivalent of 100 billion suns .
然而 , 與這樣一個噴射流的物理相比 , 我們人類大腦的物理大相徑庭到極點 。	however , compared to the physics of a jet like this , the physics of our human brain is extremely strong .
在這樣的環境裡 , 我們連一瞬間都無法生存 。 當我們試著描述那樣的噴射流中的狀況 , 語言變得無法表達 。	in such environments , we cannot survive instantaneously , when we try to describe the conditions in that jet , language becomes impossible to express .
這可能有點像經歷一次超新星爆炸 , 但是是在零距離接觸並且將數百萬年的能量集中到同一時間爆發 。	this may be a bit like experiencing a supernova explosion , but at zero distances and concentrating millions of years of energy at the same time .
但是 , 這個噴射流發生得如此地精確 , 以至於數十億年後在宇宙的另一端 , 一些化學汙垢可以準確地描述 , 建立模型 , 並預測和解釋 , 最重要的是--你可以找得到參考--現實中曾經發生過的事 。	but this jet takes place so precisely that billions of years later on the other side of the universe , some chemical scum can accurately describe and predict and explain , and most importantly you can find the reference what has happened in real life .
一個物理系統 , 大腦 , 包含了另外一個物理系統的準確工作模型--類星體 。	a physics system , the brain , contains an accurate working model of another physics system , quasars .
不僅僅是一個粗淺的影象 , 雖然也包含影象 , 而且還包含解釋性的模型 , 表達同樣的數學關係和一樣的因果結構 。	not only is it a shallow image , but it also contains an explanational model , expressing the same mathematical relationships as a causal structure .
這就是知識 。 如果這還不夠讓你驚訝的話 , 一個結構表達另外一個的準確性正隨著時間不斷提高 。 這就是知識的增長 。	this is knowledge . if this isn't surprising enough , one of the other accuracy is expressing accuracy over time . that's the growth of knowledge .
因此 , 物理規律擁有這樣一個特殊的性質 。	so physics has this unique property .
物體 , 不管他們彼此多麼相異 , 卻仍然能夠表現同樣的數學和因果結構 , 而且隨著時間增長表現得越來越多 。	objects , no matter how different they are , can still express the same mathematical and causal structure , and can perform more and more over time .
因此我們是與眾不同的化學汙垢 。 這一化學汙垢擁有普適性 。	so we're very different chemical scums . this one has universality .
它的結構準確度越來越高地包容著 , 世界萬物的結構 。 這個地方 , 不是宇宙中任何其他地方 , 在它自身內部 , 成為一個包容了其他一切宇宙萬物結構性和因果性精髓的中心 。 因此 , 意義深遠的是 , 物理規律允許這一現象 , 抑或甚至主導了它的發生這一事實是關於物理世界的最重要的事情之一 。	its structure is increasingly accuracy , the structure of everything , and this place , not anywhere else in the universe , is at the center of the structural and causal accuracy of all the other things that the universe has , and therefore , the physics allows this physics , or inhibits , or even dominates it , is one of the most important things about the physical world .
那麼太陽系--我們的環境 , 以我們的形式--是如何獲取這樣一個與宇宙其他部分的特殊關係的呢 ?	so how does the solar system our environment , in our form how does it acquire such a special relationship to the rest of the universe ?
stephenhawking觀點中其中一個正確面--我的意思是 , 這是正確的 , 但是著重點是錯的 。 其中一個正確面是它並沒有倚賴任何特殊的物理學 。 沒有特殊的放寬 , 沒有奇蹟發生 。 它的發生只依賴於我們現在富有的三種東西 。	stephen hawking's point of view is correct i mean , it's true , but it's wrong . one of the accurate aspects of it is that it doesn't depend on any special physics . there's no special amplification , there's no miracles . it just depends only on the three things that we've got now .
其中一個是物質 , 因為知識的增長是一種資訊處理的形式 。 資訊處理需要計算 , 計算需要電腦--現有的知識下不可能不需要物質來製造電腦 。	one of them is matter , because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing ; information processing requires computation , computation requires computers impossible without matter to make computers .
我們還需要能量來製造電腦 , 最重要的是 , 要使得用來記錄我們所發現知識的媒介工作 。	we also need energy to make computers , and most importantly , to get the media to document the knowledge we've discovered .
第三種東西 , 較難感觸得到 , 但是在開放式的知識和解釋的開發中同樣關鍵的是證據 。	the third thing that's harder touch , but just as critical in openended knowledge and explanation development is evidence .
我們的環境中充滿了證據 。	our environment is filled with evidence .
但是我們常常忽略了測試--比如 , 牛頓的地球引力定律--大約是在300年前提出的 。	but we often miss trials things like newton's laws of gravity about 300 years ago .
但是我們習以為常的證據 , 從數十億年前就在地球上的每個角落裡不斷墜落 , 也會在接下來的數十億年裡繼續墜落 。 其他科學也同樣如此 。	but the evidence that we're used to , the evidence that's falling down everywhere on earth billions of years ago , will continue to fall over the next billion years , and so will other sciences .
就我們所知 , 發掘所有科學大部分基本真理的證據就在我們的星球上等待我們獲取 。	as far as we know , the evidence for the most fundamental truths of all science is just waiting on our planet to get us .
我們所在的地方充滿了證據 , 還有物質和能量 。	where we are is filled with evidence , and with matter and energy .
而在星系間的空間中 , 這三個創造開放式知識的前提條件存在的可能性極端之小 。	and in intergalactic spaces , these three precursors to create openended knowledge are the less likely to exist .
正如我所說 , 那裡空無一物 , 寒冷 , 黑暗 。 抑或不是如此 ?	as i said , where is the empty , the cold , dark , or not ?
事實上 , 這只是另外一個狹隘的誤解 。	in fact , this is just another narrow misunderstanding .
假想在星系間空間有一個立方體存在 , 與我們的房屋般大小 , 太陽系 。 以我們的標準來看 , 這個立方體非常空 , 但是它事實上仍然包含著超過百萬噸的物質 。	imagine there's a cube in intergalactic space , the size of our house , the solar system , and in our standards , it's very empty , but it actually contains more than a million tons of material .
一百萬噸足夠建造一個 , 比方說 , 自給自足的空間站 , 在這個空間站內聚居著一群科學家 , 他們致力於不斷創造開放式的知識 , 等等 。	a million tons is enough to build , say , a selfsustaining space station , a bunch of scientists who are working to create openended knowledge and so on .
然而 , 現在的科技甚至連從星系間空間收集氫氣和將其轉化成別的元素等都遠不能做到 。	however , even today's technologies gather hydrogen from intergalactic space and convert it to other elements and so on .
但問題是 , 在一個可理解的宇宙中 , 如果某事是物理定律所允許的 , 那麼在我們知道如何運作的情況下 , 什麼會妨礙我們去實踐它呢 ?	but the question is , in an understandable universe , if something is permitted by the laws of physics , then what would prevent us from doing it if we knew how ?
換句話說 , 這是一個關於知識的問題 , 而不是關於資源 。	in other words , it's a matter of knowledge , not resources .
同樣 , 如果我們可以做到的話 , 那麼我們將自動獲得能源供給 , 因為這裡的變化將是核反應堆--證據 ?	and if we can do that , then we automatically get the energy supply , because the change here is going to be the nuclear reaction evidence ?
還是一樣 , 對人類的感官來說那裡漆黑一片 。 但是你所需要做的是拿起一個望遠鏡 , 甚至是今天的技術設計 , 往外看去 , 你會看到我們從這兒看到的同樣的星系 。	or , again , it's dark for human senses , but what you need to do is pick up a telescope , even today's technology , and look out , and you'll see the same galaxies that we see from here .
如果你有一個更強大的望遠鏡 , 你將能看到恆星和行星 。	if you have a more powerful telescope , you'll see stars and planets .
在那些星系裡 , 你可以進行天體物理學研究 , 瞭解物理定律 。	in those galaxies , you can do astrophysics and learn the laws of physics .
在你所處的位置 , 你可以製造粒子加速器 , 研究初級粒子物理學 , 化學等 。	in your position , you can make particle accelerators , you can study primary particle physics , chemistry , etc .
也許最難做的科學研究是生物學實地考察 , 因為需要花費數百萬年才能往返最近的有生命的星球 。	perhaps the hardest science to do is biology field expedition , because it takes millions of years to get back to the nearest living planet .
但是我必須告訴你--對不起 , richard--但是我從來都不是那麼喜歡生物學實地考察 , 我想我們可以每數百萬年才進行一次 。	but i have to tell you sorry , richard but i never really liked biology field expeditions so much , i think we can do it every million years .
因此事實上 , 星系間空間並不具備創造開放式知識的前提條件 。 任何一個這樣的立方體 , 在宇宙中任何地方 , 都可以成為跟我們一樣的中心 , 如果履行這一計劃的知識確實存在的話 。	so in fact , intergalactic space doesn't have the premise to create an openended knowledge , and any cube like this , anywhere in the universe , can be the center like anywhere else in the universe , if the knowledge of this project exists .
因此我們並不是唯一熱情好客的地方 。	so we're not the only places to be passionate .
如果星系間空間可以創造出一串開放式的解說 , 那麼幾乎其它所有的環境都是可以的 。 地球也一樣 。 被汙染的地球也是一樣 。	if intergalactic spaces can create an openended list , then almost every other environment is ok , the earth is the same as the earth .
而限制性因素 , 這裡和那裡 , 不是資源 , 因為資源很充沛 , 而是知識 , 非常匱乏 。	and the limiting factors here and there , not resources , because resources are plentiful , but knowledge , very scarce .
這樣一個知識型的宇宙觀也許--我認為應該--讓我們感覺非常不平凡 。 但同時也讓我們感覺到自己的脆弱 , 因為這也意味著如果沒有那些必需的具體的知識來幫助我們應對宇宙中源源不斷地挑戰 , 我們將無法生存 。	such a cosmic view of knowledge may i think it should make us feel extraordinary , but it also makes us feel our vulnerability , because it also means that without the specific knowledge that we need to deal with the challenges of the universe , we will not survive .
僅僅是幾光年外的一個超新星爆炸 , 我們都將必死無疑 。	just a supernova explosion just a few lightyears away , we'll all be dead .
martinrees最近剛寫了一本關於我們人類對於所有事物的脆弱性的書 , 從天體物理學 , 到科學實驗事故 , 還有最重要的擁有大規模殺傷性武器的恐怖主義 。	martin rees has recently written a book about our vulnerability to all things , from astrophysics to scientific experiments , and most importantly , terrorism with weapons of mass destruction .
他認為人類文明只有50%的機率可以存活過這個世紀 。	he thinks that human civilization has only a 50 percent chance of surviving this century .
我想他晚些時候會在這個會上給大家講述 。	i think he'll tell you a little bit later in this conference .
但是我認為這一問題並不適合用機率來描述 。	but i don't think the probabilities of this problem are adequate .
但是我同意他就此的看法 。 我們可以生存下去 , 我們也可能不會存續 。	but i agree with him that we can survive , and we may not survive .
但是這並不取決於機率 , 而是我們是否可以及時創造出相關的知識 。	but it doesn't depend on probability , it's whether we can create relevant knowledge in time .
這種危險肯定不是前所未有的 。 物種一直都在滅絕 。	this danger is certainly not unprecedented . species are extinction .
文明也會終止 。 絕大多數存在過的物種和文明都以成歷史 。	civilizations will end . the vast majority of existential species and civilizations are history .
如果我們想成為例外的話 , 邏輯上來看我們唯一的希望是利用將我們這個種群和文明與其他物種區別開的這個特徵 , 與其他一切都區別開的這個特徵 。 也就是 , 我們與物理定律得特殊關係 。 我們創造新的解釋和知識的能力--成為存在的中心 。	if we want to be an exception , logically , our only hope is to use the feature that distinguishes our group from civilization from other species , separates this from everything else , that is , we have a special relationship with the laws of physics , our ability to create new explanations and knowledge becomes the center of existence .
讓我將此運用到當前的一個論戰中 , 不是因為我想提議任何特定的解決方法 , 而只是用來闡明我所要講述的一些事 。	let me apply this to a current battle , not because i want to propose any particular solution , but just to illustrate some of the things that i'm going to talk about .
這個論戰就是全球暖化 。	this conference is global warming .
我是一個物理學家 , 但我並不是此領域的物理學家 。 就全球暖化來說 , 我只是個門外漢 。 對一個門外漢來說理智的做法是嚴肅對待權威的科學理論 。 而根據這一理論 , 已經太晚了 , 災難在所難免 。	i'm a physicist , but i'm not a physicist in this field , and as global warming , i'm just an outsider , and for an outsider , reasonable practice is a serious scientific theory to take authority , and it's already too late to be disastrous .
因為 , 如果我們目前最好的選擇是阻止二氧化碳排放的話 , 例如透過東京議定書之類的 , 限制經濟活動 , 以及花費千億美元等巨大的代價 , 那麼不管如何衡量 , 這就已經是一個災難了 。	because , if our best options at the moment are to stop co2 emissions from things like tokyo protocols and limiting economic activity and spending tens of billions of dollars on the economy , then it's already a disaster , no matter what measurements it .
倡議的行動甚至都不是為解決問題 , 而只是稍微推遲災難的到來 。 因此災難在所難免 , 一切都已晚 , 或在所有人意識到這個危險之前就已經太晚了 。	the actions that are advocated are not even solving problems , they're just a little bit of a disaster arrival , so disasters are already late , or they're too late to be aware of that danger .
上世紀70年代的時候也許就已經太晚了 , 那時候最先進的科學理論告訴我們工業排放將促成一個新的冰河世紀 , 數十億的人類將從此滅亡 。	it was too late in the 1970s , when the most advanced scientific theory industrial emissions were telling us that industrial emissions were going to lead to a new ice age , billions of humans were going to die .
這一教訓對我來說清晰可見 , 我不明白為什麼它沒有傳達至公眾辯論 。	this lesson was clear to me , and i didn't understand why it didn't reach public debate .
事實是我們不可能永遠知道 。 當我們知道有一個災難將要降臨 , 應對這個災難的成本要比災難本身小 , 那麼就真的沒有什麼好爭論的 。	the fact is that we can never know . when we know that a disaster is going to fall , there's going to be a disaster that's smaller than the cost of catastrophe , there's really nothing to argue about .
但是沒有任何預防措施 , 或者預防原則可以幫助我們避免我們還沒有預測到的問題 。	but no precaution or precautionary principle can help us avoid problems that we haven't predicted yet .
因此我們需要準備好去解決問題 , 而不僅僅是避免問題 。	so we need to be prepared to solve problems , not just to avoid problems .
一盎司的預防等於一盎司的解決 , 這是事實 , 但是這只是在我們知道預防什麼的情況下 。	an ounce of prevention equals an ounce of resolution , and that's true , but it's only in case we know what prevention is .
如果你的鼻子被打了一拳 , 醫學不會教你如何閃躲拳頭 。	if your nose is punched , medicine will not teach you how to hide your fists .
如果醫學不再研究治病的方法 , 而是僅僅研究預防 , 那麼它將幾乎一事無成 。	if medicine stops studying the cure , it's merely studying prevention , then it's almost impossible .
目前整個世界都在不計成本地忙著計劃來促成氣體排放量的減少 。	the whole world is now working to promote a decrease in gas emissions at all costs .
而它應該趕緊計劃如何降低溫度 , 以及計劃如何在溫度升高之後如何生存 。 不是不計成本 , 而是有效地、廉價的計劃 。 而這樣的一些計劃已經存在了 , 比如在太空中放置大批鏡子來將太陽光反射出去 , 以及刺激海洋生物消費更多的二氧化碳 。	and it's supposed to survive temperaturegrade , and how it's going to survive after temperature increases , not costeffectively , inexpensively and inexpensively , and some of these programs have already existed , such as putting big mirrors in space to reflect the sunlight away and to stimulate more carbon dioxide .
而目前 , 這些都只是邊緣研究 。	and so far these are just marginal studies .
人類在應對這個問題或者廣義上來說這些問題的時候 , 它們起不到核心作用 。	when humans respond to these questions or in general , they don't have the core effects .
對於我們並未知覺的問題 , 糾錯的能力--不是無限期的躲過期發生的絕對好運--是我們唯一的希望 , 不僅僅是為解決問題 , 而是為生存 。	the ability to tackle problems that we don't realize aren't indefinitely good luck is our only hope , not just for problemsolving but for survival .
我們應該拿起兩塊石碑 , 在上邊刻上銘文 。	we should pick up two stones , put inscriptions up there .
其中一塊刻上 " 問題是可以解決的 " 。	one of them is: " problems are solvable . "
另外一塊刻上 " 問題是不可避免的 " 。	the other piece is: " the problem is inevitable . "
被困在不健全的制度下 , 一個國家怎麼可能脫貧呢 ? 經濟學家paulromer提出全新見解: " 特別市 " , 由多國聯合政府管理的、城市規模的管理區域 。	how could a country be stuck with institutions that were impoverished , and the economist paul romer raised a new insight: special markets , governed by multinational united nations , urban administration ?
business , culture , economics , globalissues , politics	those are the people of the world , the issues , the people of the world .
paulromer的全新見解:特別市	paul romer's new insight: special markets .
請看這張圖片 。	i'll show you this picture .
它帶給我們一個極具吸引力的謎 。	it gives us a very attractive mystery .
這些非洲學生在做功課在首都機場的街燈下因為他們家裡沒有電 。	these african students are doing homework under the streetlights of the capital airport because they don't have electricity at home .
我還沒見過這幾個學生本人但我見過像他們一樣的學生 。	i haven't met these students yet , but i've seen students like them .
拿那個穿綠襯衫的學生做例子 ,	take that student in green shirt .
假設他的名字叫做nelson 。	let's say his name is nelson .
我猜他肯定有個手機	i guess he's got a phone .
有趣的是 ,	and here's what's interesting .
為什麼nelson有機會享用像手機這樣的前沿科技成果但卻不能在家用上電力 ? 人們早在100年前就已經發明瞭這一科技啊 ?	why did nelson have the opportunity to use coastal technology like mobile phones , but not on home electricity , where people had invented this technology 100 years ago ?
答案是 " 制度 " 。	the answer is rules .
不健全的制度會妨礙這種雙贏節決辦法的產生人們在一定的制度之下就不會將科技帶給像nelson這樣的人	unhygiency prevents this winwin resolution from generating people in a certain institution that doesn't bring technology to people like nelson .
什麼樣的制度呢 ?	what systems ?
這個國家的電力公司需要遵守一條制度這個制度要求它在政府補貼的條件下從使用者收取極其低價電費事實上 , 電費便宜到另電力公司虧損的地步	the power company in this country needs to follow an institution that requires it to charge extremely low electricity prices from the user's subsidies , and in fact , electricity is cheap to the loss of alternatives .
所以 , 電力公司既沒有資源 , 也沒有動機去給使用者接通電源	so , the power company has no resources , no motivation , to connect the user .
總統想要改變這個局面	the president wanted to change this .
他已經覺察到更換體制是具可能性的 。 能讓商家盈利的體制才能使有動機爭取更多使用者	he has noticed that the change institutions is possible , that the systems that make merchant profit in order to motivate more users .
賣nelson的手機的那個廠家也正式在制度下經營著	the facility that sells nelson's cell phone is also running institutions .
總統已經領會到制度執行良好	the president has led the systems well .
所以他嘗試著改變現行的電價制度但來自商人以及消費者的反對的聲音四起他們想保留現行的補貼電費制度	so he's trying to change the price of current electricity , but it comes from businesspeople and consumer opposing sounds all the way around , and they want to retain the current patch system .
總統無能為力 , 只能任由現行制度阻止雙贏局面產生 , 任由它妨礙改善國家	the president couldn't do anything about it , and it was created by the current system to stop the winwin situation from improving the country .
因此 , nelson也只能在街燈下學習	so nelson can only study under street lamps .
真正具有挑戰性的是嘗試尋找改變制度的辦法	what's really challenging is trying to find ways to change rules .
我們可不可以發展 " 改變制度 " 的制度呢 ?	could we develop rules for changing rules ?
我想說 , 我們可以把抽象化為實際或者說 , 如果我們給予人民更多選擇給予領導者更多選擇 , 領導者在很多國家也是人民麼	i want to say that we can make abstraction possible , or if we give people more choices to leaders , to give leaders more choice , leaders are also people in many countries .
但 , 兩者間的對立還是有必要解釋的	but there's still a necessary explanation between the two .
因為你想給予領袖的自由是像那種你給予總統提高電價一樣的自由剝奪人民在這個經濟體系中的需求自由	because the freedom that you want to give leaders is the same freedom that you give the president to raise prices on electricity , depriving people of the need for freedom in the economy .
希望可以繼續享用補貼電價的自由	we hope to continue to enjoy our prices .
所以如果你只選取一方 , 或另一方你將面臨矛盾或摩擦	so if you choose one side or the other , you're going to face contradiction or friction .
但如果我們相辦法同時給兩者自由那麼就會產生能使我們擺脫困境的制度	but if we are able to give both freedoms simultaneously , then we can create systems that can get us out of trouble .
nelson現在還可以享用網際網路	nelson can now enjoy the internet .
他說如果你想看到制度的破壞性制度怎樣陷人民於黑暗中看一看美國家宇航局拍攝的地球夜景	he said , " if you want to see the destructive institutions of institutions plunged into the darkness , look at the earth nightcare photographed by nasa
特別注意一下亞洲	notice in asia .
放大這裡可以看到北朝鮮 , 在這兒比起它的鄰居 , 北朝鮮就像個黑洞	zoom in here , you can see north korea . north korea is like a black hole compared to its neighbors .
你不會驚訝北朝鮮的制度將人民陷於黑暗	you won't be surprised to see the north korean institutions sinking people into darkness .
重要的是要承認南北朝鮮曾有一模一樣的制度不論法律上還是政策上而且在深層理解上準則 , 文化 , 價值 , 信仰	it's important to recognize that north korea had exactly the same institutions , both in law and in policy , and that deep understanding of the principles , culture , values , faiths .
南北分隔時 , 南北朝鮮做出了引領它們走向不同道路的選擇由不同的制度而產生	as northern isolation , north korea made the choice to take them to different roads , made by different institutions .
因而我們可以改變 , 我們 , 人類 , 可以改變制度人際交往與相處的制度使之變得更好 , 或更壞	so we can change , we humans , can change institutions that are intersected to each other , make them better or worse .
現在來看看另外一個地區 , 加勒比海域	now let's look at another area , the caribbean .
放大海地在這兒	zoom in to haiti .
海地也在黑暗中和鄰國多明尼加共和國相比同樣的人口總數	haiti is also in the darkness , in comparison to the neighboring dominican republic .
但這兩個國家和波多黎各比 , 也處於黑暗中波多黎各人口總數大概是海地或多米尼亞共和國的一半左右	but these two countries are also in the dark puerto rico , which is about half of the population of haiti or dominia republic .
海地提醒了我們體制可因薄弱的政府而不健全	haiti reminded us of systems that are broken by weak governments .
而不完全是因為政府太強制 , 比如北朝鮮	it's not entirely because governments are so mandated , like north korea .
因此如果我們想要建立良好政策的環境我們不能總是破壞	so if we want to build good policy environments , we can't always destroy them .
我們需要相辦法建設	we need practices .
看 , 中國強烈地展示了體制改革帶來的潛力和挑戰	look , china shows strongly the potential and the challenge of institutional reform .
在這圖表資料的時期 , 中國是世界高科技的前沿	in this graphic data period , china was the world's hightech frontier .
例如鋼鐵 , 印刷 , 火藥	iron , printing , gunpowder .
但中國從未採用 , 至少那個時期任何有效的措施來鼓勵這些想法的傳播或者一個盈利的動機來鼓勵傳播	but china never adopted , at least in any effective way at that time , to encourage the spread of these ideas , or a profit motive to encourage the spread .
中國很快採用了延緩創新的措施然後與世界隔離 , 自閉門戶	china quickly employs innovative measures and isolates the world , autistic gates .
所以在其它國家創新時 , 在發展新科技和新制度的層面上時中國已經與這些進步脫離了腳步	so by innovation in other countries , at the level of developing new technologies and new institutions , china has escaped from these advances .
國民收入停滯成為了一個非常落後的國度	civil income has stagnated to be a very falling nation .
這個圖表展示較新的資料	this is a graph that shows updated data .
它展示了收入 , 中國的平均收入與之美國的平均收入百分比	it shows the average income per capita in china and the average american income per percent .
五六十年代 , 你可以看到它徘徊在3%左右	in the '50s and '60s , you can see it hovering around three percent .
但七十年代 , 情況變了	but in the '70s , things changed .
中國開始發展 , 開始迅速地追趕上美國	china started to grow , and it started to catch up to the united states quickly .
如果你晚上看這個地圖 , 你會發現導致中國體制急速變化的原因	if you look at this map at night , you can see why the chinese system is rapidly changing .
中國最明亮的地域你可以在輪廓的邊際看到是香港	the brightest area in china , you can see it on the outline , hong kong .
香港其實是中國很小的一塊地方在二十世紀的絕大部分時期都在非常不同的體制下治理著與大陸其它地方都不同體制是從當時有效的市場經濟複製出來的並由英國治理	hong kong is actually a very small piece of china that governed institutions very , very different institutions over the vast majority of the 20th century , and different institutions from the rest of the continent were copied from the market economy at the time ,
於19世紀五十年代 , 香港是百萬大陸人去找像縫紉 , 製作玩具之類工作的地方	in the 1950s , hong kong was a millionaire continent looking for places like sewing , making toys , doing things like that .
但要想提高收入提高技術促進飛速增長	but to increase income , we need to increase the speed of growth .
香港也是像鄧小平這樣的領導者想要使大陸走向市場經濟時要模仿的經濟模型	hong kong is also leaders like deng xiaoping want to mimic the economic model of how to move the continent to the market economy .
但鄧小平本能地理解給予人民自由的重要性	but deng xiaoping understood the importance of giving people the freedom .
所以鄧不是一下子放手讓中國立即走向市場經濟他先設立了特別行政區這樣就可以模仿英國提供可以執行市場經濟的機會向那些想要這個機會的人們	so deng is not just going to let china go to the market instant , and he's setting up a special administrative district so that you can imitate the opportunity of the british market economy to people who want it .
所以他們建立了圍繞香港的四個特殊經濟開發區中國人可以去那裡工作那裡城市迅速發展並且外商湧入製造產品	so they set up four special economic development zones around hong kong , where chinese can go to work , where the cities are growing rapidly and the merchants are flooding into products .
香港旁邊有個地區叫深圳	there's an area next to hong kong called shenzhen .
深圳有個臺灣公司製造你們每人都有的iphone使用中國的勞動力那些移民到深圳的勞工	there's a taiwan company in shenzhen that makes every one of you , using china's workforce , those immigrants to shenzhen's labor .
所以在四個特別行政區以後有14個濱海城市向這樣對外開放最終成功在這些人們選擇移居的地方其實人們是因為機遇和條件而蜂擁而至	so four special administration districts , 14 of them came out of this kind of openness , and in these places where people chose to migrate , people actually arrived for opportunity and conditions .
這些的成功引起共識帶領整個經濟體制走向市場經濟	these successes lead to consensus , which leads the whole economy towards the market economy .
現在中國的這些例子證明以下幾點:	now , here are some examples from china .
一:留給人民自由	one: freedom for the people .
二:在恰當的規模下操作	two: to operate at the right scale .
如果你想在一個村莊改變體制 , 可以 , 但一個村的規模太小了不能帶給你如同讓百萬人一樣的效應在優質體制的治理下	if you want to change the system in a village , yes , but a village is too small to give you the same effect that millions of people have in the governance of good systems .
另一方面 , 一下子改變全國的體制又太大了	on the other hand , the systems that change the country are too big .
如果你想改變國家體制有一部分人必然得不到照顧他們也沒有機會去評估新政的優劣給人民一個聚焦未來 , 嘗試新體制的機會	if you want to change the system , some people don't have access to care , and they don't have the opportunity to assess the strengths of a new administration , give people a focus on the future , trying new systems .
但像城市就能給你這些機會來建立新領域開拓新體制 , 人們可以選擇	but cities can give you opportunities for building new areas , for new institutions , for people to choose .
並且足夠大大到我們能得到應有的當百萬人在新體制治理下應有的效應	and it's big enough that we can get what we need when millions of people are in the new system of governance .
所以我提議我們設想一種叫做 " 特別市 " 的東西	so i propose that we think of something called special market .
首先綱領詳細說明所有的條例規則來吸引那些建設特別市的人才	first of all , syllabus details all the rules to attract people who build special markets .
我們需要吸引投資商他們會建設基礎設施能源系統 , 公路 , 碼頭 , 機場 , 樓房	we need to attract investors who will build infrastructure , energy systems , roads , yards , airports , buildings .
你需要吸引商家他們會來聘用最先移居特別市的人們	you need to attract merchants who are going to hire the first people to migrate .
你需要吸引家庭那些會來長期居住的人撫養小孩 , 供他們受教育開始他們的事業	you need to attract families who will come and raise their children , educate them , start their business .
在這樣的綱領下 , 人們會移居那裡	under syllabus like this , people move there .
城市才能建立起來	cities can build them .
我們還可以改善這個模型的規模	we can improve the scale of the model .
我們可以一遍又一遍地	we can do it again and again and again .
要想成功 , 我們需要完善地體制 。 我們已經討論過了	in order to succeed , we need to complete the system . we've talked about it .
這些將在綱領中體現出來	this is going to be embodied in syllabus .
我們還需要給人們自由去選擇	we also need to give people the freedom to choose .
是真正融入了這個模型如果我們允許在無人居住的土地上建設城市的話	it really fits into this model if we allow cities to be built on uninhabited land .
你從荒蕪的領地開始	you start with the desolate territory .
人們可以移居那裡開始新的綱領但沒有人是被迫的	people were able to start a new syllabus there , but nobody was forced .
最後 , 我們需要給領導者自由去選擇	finally , we need to give leaders the freedom to choose .
要做到給領導者自由我們需要允許國家間的合作讓不同的國家可以合作事實上像中國和英國合作一樣來首先建設一個市場經濟的飛地然後擴大至整個中國	to achieve freedom for leaders , we need to allow different countries to work together , to actually build a market economy for the first time , to grow to china .
或多或少 , 英國 , 不經意地在上個世紀它治理香港期間對削減世界貧困上做出了比任何支援專案都更為卓越的貢獻	more or less , britain , inadvertently , in the last century , has done a more extraordinary contribution to the world's poverty reduction in hong kong than any support project .
所以只要我們允許這樣的合作重演我們可以將這個效應擴大的整個世界的規模	so if we allow this kind of collaboration to reproduce , we can scale this across the world .
有時這需要委派職責一種從一個國家到另外一個國家的責任的委派來執行某些行政管理的職責	sometimes it takes a duty of commitment , a duty of responsibility from one country to another , to run some administrative accounts .
我這麼說你們中有些人可能開始想 " 那 , 不是要恢復殖民主義嗎 ? "	and i say that some of you are probably starting to think , " well , wouldn't it restore colonialism ? "
不是的 。 但是認識到這種情緒卻是重要的我們開始考慮這些時 , 這些情緒將產生會阻礙我們扼殺我們的能力我們探索新想法的興趣	it's not . but it's important to recognize that emotions are going to stifle our capacity to explore new ideas .
為什麼這不是殖民主義 ?	why is this not colonialism ?
殖民主義的弊病以及支援專案遺留的弊端是它具有強迫和屈尊的元素	the elements of colonialism's illness and the legacy of support projects are compulsive and respectful elements .
但模型的核心是自由選擇無論是對領導者來說 , 還是對來移居的人民來說	but at the heart of the model is free choice , both for leaders and for migrants .
這自由選擇恰恰正是強迫和屈尊的解藥	this freedom option is precisely the antidote to force and respect .
那麼我們來談談怎樣實際操作	so let's talk about how it works .
拿卡斯特羅來說他是古巴的領袖做例子	take castro , for example , the leader of cuba .
卡斯特羅一定意識到他有機會對古巴採用像鄧小平對中國一樣的政策但古巴這個島國沒有像香港一樣的地方	castro recognizes he has the chance to take policies like deng xiaoping did for china , but cuba doesn't have a place like hong kong .
南方倒有一處明亮的地方具有非常特殊的意義	there's a bright spot in the south that's very specific .
在關塔那摩灣區域一個條約給予美國行政管理的權力對這足有曼哈頓兩倍大小的地方	in guantanamo bay area , a treaty that gave the u . s . administrative administration twice the size of this site in manhattan .
卡斯特羅對加拿大總理說 " 看 , 美國佬在公共關係上有問題	castro said to the prime minister of canada , " look , there's a problem with polls in public relations .
他們要退出了	they're quitting .
你為什麼不接手呢 ?	why don't you take over ?
管理一個特別的行政區	i run a special administrative district .
讓新城市建設在那裡	let new cities build there .
讓人們住進來	let's let people come in .
讓我們附近有一個像香港一樣的城市	we have a city nearby like hong kong .
我的公民會移居那裡	my citizens moved there .
也有人不會 。 但這將成為會連通現代經濟和現代世界的門戶對我的國家來說 。 "	nor will it be , but it will be a gateway to connect the modern economy and the modern world to my country . "
現在 , 還有哪裡嘗試過這個模型 ?	now , where else have we tried this model ?
非洲 。 我曾和非洲的領導者溝透過	africa . i used to talk to leaders in africa .
他們很多人都完全理解特別行政區的含義人們可以選擇體制	many of them completely understand the meaning of the special administrative district , where people can choose the system .
這是個為改變體制而建立的體制	it's a system that's built for change .
這是個建立新制度 , 讓人民選擇的辦法沒有壓迫 , 也沒有可以去壓迫的反抗	it's a new system of options for people to choose without oppression , without resistance , without oppression .
也完全理解在某些情況下他們可以向長期投資商做出更由權威的承諾那些將會修建碼頭的投資商修建公路 , 在新城市他們可以做出更有信服力的承諾如果他們與另外一個國家合作	it's also fully understood in some cases that they can make much more authoritative commitments to longterm investors that will build the docks and build the highways in new cities , and they can make much more convincing promises if they work with another country .
甚至在某些安排中 , 這有點像代管賬戶你把地產投入代管賬戶合作國從而負責管理這個賬戶	and even in some arrangements , it's a little bit like a modern account , where you put the real estate into the modern accounts , where you can manage the account
非洲還有很多地新城市可以建設在這些地上	there's a lot of new cities in africa that can be built on these lands .
這張照片是我在海灣上空拍攝的	this is a photograph i did on the gulf .
像這樣的廣闊的地有很多成百上千的人可以居住	there are hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people like this that can live .
讓我們概括並思考不是一兩個 , 而是幾十個特別市能提供上百萬 , 或許上億人在下個世紀移居到特別市我們有足夠大的地嗎 ?	let's summarize and think about not one or two , but dozens of special markets provide millions , maybe hundreds of millions of people who have moved to special markets over the next century ?
遠看世界 , 如果我們夜裡尋找明亮誤導人的是肉眼看來 , 貌似絕大部分已經建設好了	if we look at the world at night , if we look for bright misleading people , it looks like the eye , most of them have been built .
讓我來告訴你為什麼這是錯誤的	let me tell you why it's wrong .
這代表所有的地面	this represents all of the ground .
把它轉換成方形來代表地球上所有可耕種的土地	turn it into a square to represent all of the land that's available on earth .
這些點代表已經被佔用了的土地現在有30億人居住在城市裡	these dots represent land that's already taken up , and there are now three billion people living in cities .
如果你把這些點移動倒長方形的底端你發現已經住有30億城鎮居民的城市只佔用了地球上3%可耕種土地	if you move those dots to the bottom of the rectangle , you can see that there are already three billion urban residents of the city , accounting for only three percent of the land that
如果我們想再建設些城市來容納10億居民他們會像這些點一樣	if we want to reconstruct cities for a billion people , they'll be like these .
我們從佔用3%可耕種土地到佔用4%	we go from three percent farmable land to four percent .
透過建設城市 , 並且讓住在農村的人可以移居城市我們將急劇減少人類在地球上的足跡	by building cities , and by allowing people in rural areas to move to cities , we're going to have an urgent reduction in humanity's footprint on the planet .
如果這些城市在完善的體制下治理他們可以成為人們遠離犯罪、疾病以及低劣的衛生條件人們可以找工作	and if these cities govern well under systems , they can be people who are away from crime , disease , and low hygiene , and people can get a job .
可以有起碼的公共服務 , 比如用電	you can have cheap public services , like electricity .
孩子可以受教育	children can be educated .
我們需要什麼來開始呢 ? 開始建設第一批特別市然後擴大規模 , 建設更多 ?	what do we need to start , to start building the first special markets , and then expanding it , building more ?
有一個 " 使用者使用指南 " 還是很有必要的	there's still a necessity for a user's guide .
大學教授能做到的是寫一些可以被寫入指南的細節	what university professors can do is write details that can be written into subjects .
你或許不讓我們治理這些城市出去設計它們	you may not let us govern these cities and design them .
你或許不讓學者走出象牙塔	you may not let scholars walk out of ivory towers .
但你可以讓我們來考慮這些問題假設這不僅是加拿大和卡斯特羅的交易	but you can let us consider these problems , assuming it's not just canada and castero's trade .
也許巴西也來湊熱鬧還有西班牙 。 也許古巴想要成為四邊合作的一員	maybe brazil comes in assembly and in spain . maybe cuba wants to be a part of all four sides .
我們怎麼來起草協議呢 ?	how do we get the grass protocol ?
沒有前者為例 。 但要解決也很輕鬆	there's no previous example . but it's easy to solve .
我們怎麼融資 ?	how do we finance ?
事實上新加坡和香港還有其它在地產增值時撈上一大筆的一些城市	in fact , singapore and hong kong and others have grown in property .
你可以用地產的盈利來支付像警察 , 法院之類的設施還有教育和醫療系統讓它成為讓人嚮往居住的地方讓它成為高收入的地方這樣也會使得地產增值更高	you can use real estate profit to pay infrastructure like police , like courts , and education and health systems to make it a place for people to live , to make it a place for highincome , and also to make the real estate worth more .
所以對這些建設這區域 , 設立基礎綱領的人的獎勵是完全合適的	so the reward for the people who built these infrastructure regions is perfectly appropriate .
還有很多像這樣的細節	there's lots of details like this .
我們怎樣才能給那些靠組裝iphone的工人像那樣的一類人群如何為他們提供他們有能力買得起的樓房 ? 而且要讓這樓房節能安全 , 不能塌下來比如說在地震或颶風的時候	how can we give workers , who are assembling iphones , to provide them with affordable buildings , and to make them affordable , to make this building secure , to not collapse safely at earthquakes or hurricanes ?
很多細節還要再疏理我們中間有些人已經在追逐這樣的夢了他們可以告訴你 , 沒有辦不到的 , 只有想不到的只有匱乏的想像力會阻礙我們發掘出可以帶來真正的全球雙贏的方案	there are a lot of details and recoverys , and some of us are pursuing dreams like this , and they can tell you that the unsuccessful , the only thing the imaginations of scarcity are preventing us from discovering solutions to realwin global winwins .
讓我們總結一下	let's summarize .
為什麼我們可以過著富裕的生活儘管地球上這麼多人因為主意的力量	why is it that we can live a rich life , despite the power of so many people on this planet ?
我們可以與人分享想法當他們有好的主意 , 他們也和我們分享	we can share ideas with people , and when they have good ideas , they share with us .
這與稀有物質不同分享意味著每人得到少一些	it's very different from rare material sharing , which means less for each person .
但我們分享我們的想法時 , 我們都得到更多	but when we share our ideas , we get more .
如果我們這麼談起想法通常會想到科技	if we talk about ideas like this , we often think about technology .
但想法也有另外一層含義那就是我們怎樣彼此交流的規則像讓我們有一個稅收系統來支援一個科研性大學來免費傳授某個知識這樣的規則	but there's another layer of ideas , and that's how we communicate with each other , and it gives us a tax revenue system to support a science university for free to deliver on one of these rules .
讓我們有一個系統允許我們擁有在政府註冊了的土地人們可以拿做抵押	let's have a system where we have land that's registered by the government , where people can be mortgaged .
如果我們堅持在規則上創新特別是在改變規則的規則上創新這樣我們就不會被不健全的制度禁錮這樣我們就可以朝前進步真正讓世界更美好這樣像nelson和他的朋友們這樣的孩子就不必在街燈下學習了 。 謝謝 。	if we insist that innovation in the rules , especially innovation in changing the rules so that we can become imprisoned by institutions so that we can move forward to really make the world a better place like nelson and his friends wouldn't have to learn from streetlights . thank you .
從艱苦漫長的環球探險中 , 基因組學先驅克雷格•文特忙裡偷閒 , 為我們講述其團隊描繪海洋生物多樣性的歷程 。 到目前為止 , 他們已經發現了數百萬的基因 。	from a long , long global adventure , genomics pioneered craig venter busy talking about the journey of marine biodiversity for us , and so far , they have found millions of genes .
dna , biosphere , biotech , entrepreneur , genetics , invention , oceans , science , technology	dna , biosphere , biotech , entrepreneur , genetics , welcome , marine .
克雷格•文特:dna和海洋	craig venter: dna and the ocean .
休息的時候 , 有幾個人過來問我對老齡化問題怎麼看	at the break , a couple of people came to ask me what i think about aging .
我的唯一看法是	my only opinion was this .
我認為樂觀主義者比悲觀主義者活得久得多	i think optimists live much longer than pessimists .
在這18分鐘裡我將告訴你們的是我們是如何做到從最初的閱讀遺傳編碼發展到我們自己開始編寫遺傳編碼	in those 18 minutes , what i'm going to show you is how we've gone from reading genetic code to encoding ourselves .
僅僅十年之前的這個月我們發表了第一個來自自由活動生命體的基因序列即流感嗜血桿菌的序列	this month only a decade ago , we published the first freely active genome sequence of life , the sequence of haemophilus .
由此我們將基因組專案完成的時間從13年降到4個月	so we've gone from 13 years down to four months .
現在 , 同樣的基因組專案只需要2到8個小時	now , the same genome project only takes two to eight hours .
因此過去十年 , 我們完成了大量的基因組測序大部分的人類病原體幾種植物多種昆蟲和哺乳動物包括人類基因組	so over the last decade , we've done a lot of sequencing genomes , most of human pathogens , several plants , multiple insects and mammals ,
約在十年前我們對基因組學發展的設想是到今年年底的時候我們或許能完成3到5個基因組的測序而事實上已經完成了數百個	and about a decade ago , our assumptions about genomics were that by the end of this year , we might be able to sequence three to five genomes , and in fact , hundreds of them have been completed .
我們剛剛從戈登-貝蒂•摩爾基金會獲得一筆資助作為環境有機體專案的副專案我們將在今年完成130個基因組的測序	we just got a grant from the gordon betty moore foundation as a subject project for environmental organisms projects , and we're going to sequence 130 genomes this year .
閱讀遺傳編碼的速率已然改變	the rate of reading genetic code has changed .
但我們看到 , 未來的路還很長我們僅僅探索了這個星球表面上淺淺的一層	but what we see is that the future is very long , and we're only exploring the shallow layers of the shallow surface of the planet .
大多數人沒有意識到這些肉眼看不到的生物微生物構成了地球約一半的生物量而所有的動物加起來也才佔地球生物量的千分之一	most people don't realize that the microbes that you can't see make up about half the biomass of the earth , and all animals add up to a thousandth of the biomass of the earth .
跑到海邊喝上一口海水或許不是牛津人經常做的事但請記住每一毫升的海水裡有大約一百萬個的細菌其中的病毒更是以千萬計	running to the beach , drinking seawater may not be something that oxfords do a lot , but remember that every single milliter of seawater , there's about a million bacteria , and the viruses are thousands of them .
兩年前只有不到五千種的微生物被鑑定歸類於是我們決定做些這方面的事情	less than 5 , 000 microbes were identified two years ago , so we decided to do something about it .
我們啟動了巫師二號考察和其他大型的海洋考察活動一樣我們嘗試每200英里採一次樣	we launched a wizard ii expedition , like any other big ocean expedition , and we tried to sample every 200 miles .
考察伊始 , 我們在百慕大進行了測試專案然後前往哈利法克斯接著到美國東海岸加勒比海、巴拿馬運河穿過加拉帕哥斯群島 , 然後橫跨太平洋現在我們正在穿越印度洋的過程中	we tested it in bermuda , and then headed to hallefax , and then the east coastal caribbean , the panama canal , running through the galapagos , and across the pacific , now we're in the process of going across the indian ocean .
工作很艱難 , 我們乘著一艘帆船某種程度上我們想透過它激起年輕人投身科學的興趣	it's hard work . we're sailing boats in a sailing vessel , and in a way we want to be interested in getting young people into science .
實驗其實非常簡單	the experiments are actually very simple .
採集海水 , 過濾用不同的過濾器採集不同大小的生物然後把它們的dna帶回羅克韋爾的實驗室在那裡我們可以每24小時測完一億字元的遺傳編碼	take seawater , filter different filters , take different size organisms , and then take their dna back to rockwell's lab , where we can measure the genetic code every 24 hours .
透過這些我們已經有了一些驚人的發現	and we've made some surprising discoveries through this .
比如我們眼睛裡的視色素之前認為自然界中只有一到兩種生物擁有和我們一樣的視色素	for instance , pigments in our eyes used to think that only one or two organisms in nature have the same pigments that we have .
但後來發現在溫暖海區的上層海水中幾乎每個物種都擁有這類光受體並利用陽光作為能量來源和交流工具	but it turns out that in the upper waters of the warm seas , almost every species has these light receptors and use sunlight as a source and a communication tool .
僅僅一個採集點 , 從一桶水中我們就能發現1300萬個新基因相當於5萬個新種	just one collection , and from a barrel of water , we can see that 13 million new genes are equivalent to 50 , 000 new ones .
藉助來自斯隆基金會的資助我們已經將研究擴充套件到空氣中	by funding from the sloan foundation , we've expanded research into the air .
我們正在測算 , 在我們每天呼吸的空氣中漂浮著多少病毒和細菌特別是在飛機和禮堂等封閉環境中	we're calculating how many viruses and bacteria float in the air we breathe every day , especially in closed environments like airplanes and auditoriums .
我們透過一些簡單的儀器進行過濾在紐約市某棟建築的頂上僅用一天我們就過濾出數十億計的微生物	we filtered billions of microbes on top of a building in new york city just a day .
目前我們正在對它們進行測序	we're currently sequencing them .
單純從資料蒐集方面僅僅在加拉帕戈斯群島我們就發現幾乎每200英里我們都能從採集的樣品中看到巨大的多樣性	just from the data collection , just from the galapagos islands , we've discovered that almost every 200 miles , we can see enormous diversity in the samples that are being collected .
不同的溫度梯度或許可以部分解釋這種多樣性	different temperature gradients may well be explaining a little bit about this diversity .
這是一張基於溫度的衛星圖片紅色表示溫暖區域藍色表示冷的區域我們發現 , 在溫暖海水中獲得樣品與冷海水中的樣品在物種的豐富程度上具有極大的差異	this is a temperature satellite based on the temperature image , showing warm areas in red , cool areas in blue , and what we found was that the samples and samples in the warm water were very different in the abundance of the species .
另一個讓我們感到驚奇的事情是這些光受體能探測到不同波長的光而我們能透過它們的氨基酸序列來推測這一過程	another surprising thing to us is that these light receptors can detect light from different wavelengths of light , and we can predict that through their amino acid sequences .
不同區域之間 , 它們也差別巨大	and they're enormously different .
或許不是很讓人驚奇在幾乎是幽藍的深海里光受體傾向於 " 看 " 到藍光	it may not be surprising that in nearly humorous deep seas , receptors tend to look at blue light .
而當週圍存在大量葉綠素的時候它們則 " 看 " 到許多綠光	and when there's a lot of chlorophyll around , they see a lot of green light .
在向較極端的紅外和紫外波段移動時光受體的差別可能更大	when the light moves towards the extreme infrared and the ultraviolet period , the receptors may be even larger .
為了對我們採集的所有基因進行評估我們彙總了所有資料包括到目前為止考察所得的所有資料代表了地球上超過一半的基因資料總共約2900萬個基因	to evaluate all of the genes that we've collected , we've collected all of the data , including all of the data from our expeditions so far represents 29 million genetic data on the planet .
我們把這些基因放入基因家族中試圖回答:我們是發現了已知基因家族中的新成員還是發現了新的基因家族 ?	we put those genes into the family , and we try to answer: did we discover new members of the known genome , or did we discover new gene family members ?
結果表明我們找到了大約5萬個主要的基因家族但我們從環境中獲得的每個新樣品都只是對這些新基因家族的線性補充	it turns out we found about 50 , 000 primary gene families , but every new sample that we obtained from the environment was just linearly addressing these new gene families .
因此我們正處在發現地球生命及其組成部分和基因基礎的最初階段	so we're in the earliest stages of discovering the earth's life and its components and its genetic base .
我們來看下所謂的進化樹我們人類就在右上角 , 和動物們在一起	we look at the socalled evolutionary tree , and we humans are in the upper righthand corner , with animals .
在動物界約2900萬個基因中我們的基因組才僅僅擁有24000個基因	in the animal kingdom , we only have 2 , 4 , 000 genes in the animal kingdom .
如果把所有的動物算在一起我們與之分享著不到30000可能在1.2萬或再多數千的不同的基因家族	if we calculate all the animals together , we share less than 3 , 000 animals with them , possibly 12 , 000 , or tens of thousands of different gene families .
現在我不僅僅將這些基因視為進化的設計元件	now , i don't just think of these genes as design components of evolution .
而且我們要從 " 基因中心觀點 " 或許要追溯到理查德•道金斯的理論而非 " 基因組中心觀點 " 來思考它們對這些基因元件的構造方式是不同的	and we're going to go back to richard dawkins' theory of the genomecentric perspective , rather than the genomecentric perspective , to think about how these genetic components are made of different things .
合成dna , 即人工合成dna的能力在過去的十年或二十年裡與dna測序的能力在某種程度上是同步發展的而且都變得越來越快速和廉價	synthetic dna , the ability to synthesize dna , in the last decade or two , has been synchronizing with dna sequencing in a way that's getting faster and cheaper .
有關合成基因組的想法是在1995年我們對第二個基因組即生殖道支原體測序的時候想到的	the idea for the synthetic genome was in 1995 , and it came to us when we sequenced the second genital genital colony , the genital colony .
我們還製作了相當不錯的t恤寫著 , " 我愛惜我的生殖器 "	we also made a pretty good tshirt that said , " i love my genitalia . "
這其實只不過是個微小的生物	it's just a tiny creature .
卻擁有近500個基因	it has nearly 500 genes .
嗜血桿菌擁有1800個基因	haemophilus has 1 , 800 genes .
我們提出疑問如果某物種需要800個基因 , 另一種需要500個是否能用一套更小的基因組成一個微小的可運作生命系統	we asked if one species needed 800 genes , the other 500 , to be able to use a smaller set of genomes to make a tiny , tiny , operating system .
於是我們開始做轉座子的突變發生	so we started mutationizing our seats .
轉座子是隨機插入遺傳編碼之中的短的dna片段	the rotating seat is short pieces of dna that randomly inserts into the genetic code .
如果轉座子插入到基因中間 , 就會擾亂基因的功能	if you insert a seat in the middle , it disrupts the function of the gene .
因此我們找出所有能夠接受轉座子插入的基因併為這些 " 非必需基因 " 製作了 " 地圖 "	so we looked at all the genes that could be inserted into these , and they wouldn't have to be necessarily made a map .
但結果我們發現環境對此的影響非常關鍵我們只能根據環境中確實存在的條件來定義必需和非必需基因	but it turns out that the environment is very critical to this , and we can only define the unnecessary and nonnecesary genes according to the conditions that exist in the environment .
我們還試圖做一個更直觀的研究對13個有親緣關係的生物我們試圖比較它們的基因組 , 看它們是否有相同之處	we also tried to do a more straightforward study of 13 organisms with relationships , and we tried to compare their genomes to see if they had the same thing .
於是我們得到了這些重疊的圓圈 , 我們發現只有173個基因在這所有13種生物中是相同的	so we got these overlapping circles , and we found out that only 173 genes are the same in all 13 species .
如果忽略掉一個細胞內寄生物的話這個基因庫還能擴充套件一點當我們審視核心的一組約310個基因時基因庫擴大更多	if you ignore a parasite in a cell , this gene bank can expand a little bit , and when we look at the core set , it's about 310 genes , and the gene pool expands even more .
因此我們認為可以從最少500個基因擴充套件或縮小取決你怎麼看這個問題到約300到400個基因	so we think we can go from the least 500 gene expansion kits or minimum gene expansion or minimum determination of what you're looking at , to something like 300 or 400
證明這些理論的唯一方法是以這些基因人工構建一個染色體而且我們必須用基於表達框的方式來達到這一目的	the only way to prove these theories is to build a chromosome in these genes , and we have to do it based on the framework .
我們發現大片段精確合成dna是非常非常困難的	it turns out that big pieces of synthetic dna are very , very difficult .
我的同事漢姆•史密斯和克萊德•哈欽森發明了一個讓人振奮的新方法能讓我們在短短兩週時間內合成一個擁有5000個鹼基對的病毒而且在基因序列和生物學特性上都百分百精確	my colleague , han smith and clay harchinson , have invented an exciting new way that we can synthesize a virus that has 5 , 000 base pairs in just two weeks , and 100 percent precisely in gene sequencing and biology .
那是個相當讓人興奮的實驗:我們僅僅把合成的dna片段注進細菌中 , 突然之間dna就開始引導病毒顆粒的合成而病毒反過來殺死了細菌	it was a pretty exciting experiment: we just injected synthetic dna fragments into bacteria , and all of a sudden , dna started guiding viral particle synthesis , and viruses came back and killed bacteria .
這並非第一個合成的病毒一年前已有某種脊髓灰質炎病毒被製造了出來但這卻是唯一達到百分之一活性的病毒耗時三年才合成成功	it's not the first synthetic virus that was made a year ago , but it's the only one percent active virus that took three years to synthesize .
這是phix-174結構的一個動畫	this is a animation of the structure of phi x174 .
這是軟體為自己構建硬體的活例子也為我們的生物學提供了新想法	this is a living example of software that constructs our hardware and provides new ideas for our biology .
有人立即開始擔心生物武器的威脅不久前我也在參議院委員會和另一個由美國政府成立旨在評價這一領域的特殊委員會上作證	immediately , i was worried about the threat of biological weapons , and not long ago , i was at the senate committee and another special committee that the u . s . government was authorized on .
我認為最重要的是將事實牢記在心而非人們對事情發生的想象	i think the most important thing is to keep facts in mind , not what's happening .
基本上 , 任何現在已經被測序的病毒其基因組都可以被合成	essentially , any virus that has been sequenced now can be synthesized .
人們立馬被埃博拉病毒或天花病毒之類等嚇壞了但從這些生物體中提取的dna並不具有感染力	people were terrified by things like the ebola virus or smallpox , but the dna extracted from these organisms was not contagious .
因此即使有人制成了天花病毒基因組其dna本身並不會引發感染	so even if someone made the smallpox genome , its dna doesn't cause the infection itself .
安全部門真正需要擔心的是 " 設計者病毒 "	the security department really needs to worry , " designer virus . "
只有兩個國家 , 美國和前蘇聯曾經花大力氣致力於生物武器的研製	only two countries , the u . s . and the former soviet union , have spent an effort working on biological weapons .
如果這些研究真的已經終止那麼在未來人為製造出設計者病毒的機率微乎其微	if these studies have actually stopped , the odds of making designer viruses in the future are slightly less likely .
我想兩年內製造出單細胞生物是可能的	i think in two years , it's possible to make singlecelled organisms .
而真核細胞我們自己擁有的這種細胞也可能在十年內製造出來	and the real nuclear cells that we have can be made in a decade .
我們可以區分開進入這個人工基因組的不同表達框和不同基因使得我們能構建數十種不同的結構	we can separate into the boxes and different genes of this artificial genome , allowing us to build dozens of different structures .
關鍵是 , 如何把所有其他的放進來 ?	the key thing is , how do you put in all the others ?
我們從這些片段開始然後透過一個同源重組系統將其組合到染色體中	we start with these clips , and then we combine them with a homologous recombination system into a chromosome .
這來自一種名為耐輻射奇異球菌的生物能在三百萬拉德的輻射劑量下保持活力	this comes from a creature called deinococcus radiodurans that remain vital for three million rads .
在暴露輻射約12到24小時其染色體幾乎完全破碎的情況下它還能將自身的染色體重新組裝起來	in exposure radiation for about 12 to 24 hours , its chromosome was almost completely broken , and it could reassemble its own chromosomes .
這種生物在地球上幾乎無處不在甚至由於人類的活動它們還可能在外太空活動	these organisms are almost everywhere on earth , and even because of human activity , they may be active in outer space .
這是玻璃燒杯在約50萬拉德輻射下的情形	this is a glass burning glass in about half a million rads .
玻璃開始燃燒 , 爆裂而位於底部的微生物則似乎越來越開心	glass starts to burn , burns , and microbes at the bottom seem to be getting happier and happier .
這是實際的情形上面是經過170萬拉德輻射之後的染色體	this is a practical scenario with a chromosome after 17 million rads of radical radiation .
幾乎已經支離破碎	it was almost broken .
下面是24小時之後同樣的dna自動重組的結果	and here's the same dna automatically recombined 24 hours later .
這些生物能做到的真是歎為觀止 。 如果不是數以萬計的話也許我們還能找到數以千計的物種也同樣能夠做到	these organisms are truly marvelous . if not tens of thousands , maybe we'll be able to find thousands and thousands of other species to do the same .
這些基因組合成之後第一步就是將它們移植到另一個沒有基因組的細胞中	the first step after these genomes are to transplant them into cells with no other genomes .
因此我們認為合成細胞將具有巨大的前景不僅僅在生物學基礎的理解上而且很可能幫我們應對環境和社會問題	so we think that synthetic cells are going to have huge promise not just in biologybased understanding , but possibly in environmental and social problems .
例如 , 從我們測序的第三種生物詹氏甲烷球菌 , 生活在相當於水沸點的高溫中以氫作為能量來源並依靠捕獲環境中的二氧化碳為自己提供所需的碳	for instance , from our third species , methane bacterio , living at the equivalent of high temperatures at the boiling point of water , using hydrogen as a source of energy , and depending on capturing carbon dioxide in the environment , carbon
由此可知 , 透過大量不同的途徑數以千計的生物能夠捕獲並依賴二氧化碳生存	and therefore , thousands of organisms can be captured and dependent on carbon dioxide .
因此我們可以透過捕獲大氣中的碳製造生物高聚物或其他產品來替代從石油中工業合成的碳製品	so we can replace carbon products that are synthesized from carbon in the atmosphere by capturing carbon in the atmosphere , or other products .
有種依賴一氧化碳的生物我們利用其還原能力使水分子破裂 , 製造出氫和氧	there's an organism that depends on carbon oxide , and we use its ability to crack the water molecule and make hydrogen and
同樣 , 還有許多途徑能夠用來轉化甲烷	similarly , there are many ways to convert methane .
杜邦公司和挪威石油公司有一大型專案就是把挪威油氣田中的甲烷轉化為有用的產品	the largest project for dupont and norwegian oil is to convert methane from the oil fields in norway into useful products .
我突然想到 , 將有一個新的領域 " 組合基因組學 " 很快就要誕生因為有了這些新的合成方法有了這麼龐大的基因序列和同源重組我們可以設計出一個能夠每天生產近百萬個染色體的機器人	and it struck me that there was a new field called combinatoric genomics that was going to be born very quickly , because with these new methods of synthesizing , we had these huge genome sequences and homologous recombinations , we could design a robot that could produce nearly a million chromosomes a day .
因此 , 所有的生物學特徵都能透過螢幕來選擇無論是製造氫化學合成 , 或者僅僅是生存能力	so all the biology features can be chosen through screens , either by making hydrogen synthesis , or just by making survival .
理解這些基因的功能將變得觸手可及	understanding the function of these genes will become a tentacle .
我們正嘗試改進光合作用以直接在陽光下製造出氫	we're trying to improve photosynthesis to produce hydrogen directly in the sun .
光合作用受氧調節而我們使用的對氧不敏感的氫化酶將完全改變這一過程	photosynthesis is oxygenregulated , and the unsensitive hydrogen enzymes we use are going to completely change the process
我們還整合了多種纖維素酶這些酶可以把複雜的糖類分解為簡單的糖類並在同一個細胞內發酵產生酒精	we also integrated multiple cellulose enzymes , which enzymes can break down complex sugars into simple sugars , produce alcohol in the same cell .
在一些大型的實驗室裡已經開始利用微生物進行藥品生產	in some large laboratories , microbes are starting to use drug production .
環境中化合物的化學比我們最好的化學家制造出來的化合物還要複雜很多	the chemistry of the environment is much more complicated than our best chemists make up compounds .
也許未來的工程物種將成為我們的食物來源能量來源環境補救手段甚至取代石化行業	perhaps future engineering species will be our food source energy sources , environmental remedies , and even replace the fossil industry .
最後讓我以道德和政策上的研究結束吧	let me end with moral and policy studies .
我們推遲了1999年開始的實驗直到對是否應該嘗試製造人工物種這一問題進行了一年半的生物倫理學討論後實驗才繼續進行	we launched our experiments in 1999 , until the question of whether we should try to make artificial species , and it took about a year and a half of the bioethical discussions to go on .
每個主要宗教都參與其中	every major religion is involved .
真是一項奇怪的研究因為許多宗教領袖都以他們的教義、經文作為法律而且不能從中找出禁止製造生命的條文所以這應該沒什麼問題最根本的擔憂來自生物武器方面但只有開始進行這些實驗之後我們才能找出從事這一切的原因	it's a strange study , because many religious leaders are using their customs , their scriptures , and they can't find the protocols that prohibit life , so there's nothing wrong with this very fundamental worrying comes from biological weapons , but only when we do these experiments , we can figure out what's going on .
目前斯隆基金會已經資助了一個相關的多機構參與的研究以確定這些實驗給社會帶來的風險和益處同時也為像我們這樣的科學團隊在這一領域開展研究制定規則在前進的同時我們也努力成為一個良好的榜樣	now , the sloan foundation has funded a multiinstitutional study to identify the risks and benefits of these experiments and to build the research teams like ours , and to build the rules forward , and we're also trying to be a good example .
有許多複雜的議題	there's a lot of complex issues .
除了生物恐怖主義它們其實都很簡單:我們能否設計出生產清潔能源的工具透過各種不同的簡單步驟或能徹底改變發展中國家的能源生產模式	in addition to bioterrorism , they're actually very simple: can we design tools to produce clean energy through various simple steps , or can we radically change the energy production model in the developing world ?
心理學家philipzimbardo說我們大部分人都忽略了幸福和成功的來源:那就是我們觀望過去、面向現在和展望未來 。 要想改善生活質量 , 他建議我們首先要調整時間觀念 。	the psychologist philip zimbardo says that most of us are neglecting the source of happiness and success: that's what we're looking at the past , facing the present and the future , and to improve the quality of life , he suggests we have to adjust our time .
brain , business , happiness , mind , psychology , science	ha , ppiness , mind , psychology .
philipzimbardo健康的時間觀念	philip zimbardo's time perspective .
我想跟你們分享一些對時間的神秘力量的看法當然是在很短的時間內	i want to share with you some of the mysterious powers of time , of course , in a very short period of time .
影片:好的 , 開始計時 。 30秒倒計時	video: ok , start time . 30 seconds down .
保持安靜 。	stay quiet .
注意時間 。 結束倒計時 。	notice time . end of time .
10 , 9 , 8 , 76 , 5 , 4 , 3 , 2......	10 , nine , eight , 76 , five , four , three , two . . .
philipzimbardo:讓我們來看看這段對話是有關 " 亞當的誘惑 "	philip zimbardo: let's take a look at this conversation about " adam's temptation . "
快 , 亞當 , 別磨磨<unk>的 , 就咬一口 , 我已咬過了	soon , adam , don't mill , just bite , i've bitten .
就一口 , 亞當 。 不要放棄夏娃	just one bite , adam . don't give up eve .
我不知道啊	i don't know .
我真的不想惹麻煩	i really didn't want to get in trouble .
好吧 , 就一口 。 能怎麼樣 ?	okay , just one bite . what can we do ?
生活中充滿了誘惑 。 而且到處都是:屈服或反抗是、不是、現在、隨後、衝動、沉穩專注現在和展望未來	life is filled with temptation , and everywhere: submission or resistance , is it , is it , present , impulsive , steady focus , now and our future .
激情時刻一旦到來 , 道德束縛將皆被打破	when the passions come , the moral constraints will be broken .
那些承諾婚前無性行為的女孩–這裡感謝下小布什總統大多數 , 大概百分之六十的人在一年之內就違背了自己的承諾	those girls who promised to have sex without marriage thanks to president george bush , most people , about 60 percent of them , had violated their commitments within a year .
而這些人幾乎沒采取任何 " 安全措施 "	and these people have barely accepted any safety measures .
多麼多的承諾啊	what a promise .
現在我們來試試引誘4歲的孩子 , 拿他們來做個試驗	now let's try this with a fouryearold . let's do an experiment with them .
他們現在有一個棉花糖 , 如果他們能夠等到實驗員回來再吃的話 , 就可以得到2個棉花糖	they now have a marshmallow , and if they can wait for the experimenter to come back , they'll get two marshmallows .
這當然是需要付出的 , 如果你真喜歡吃棉花糖的話 , 那就等著	of course it's necessary to pay if you really like to eat marshmallow .
但結果是3分之2的孩子屈服於誘惑	but it turns out that twothirds of the children submit to temptation .
他們等不了 。 當然 , 其它的孩子都得到了第二個棉花糖	they couldn't wait . and of course , all the other kids got the second marshmallow .
因為他們抵抗了誘惑 。 他們甘於先苦後甜 。	because they resisted temptation . they sweet .
沃特米塞奇 , 是我在斯坦福大學的同事他在14年後重新找到這些孩子並去勘察他們現時的情況	walter mitch , my colleague at stanford university who , 14 years later , reclaimed these children and explored what was happening to them .
結果發現這兩組孩子在各個方面都有著巨大的差異	and it turns out that these two groups have enormous differences in many ways .
那些等到了第二個棉花糖的孩子在sat中比另一組得分平均高250分	the children who waited for the second marshmallow were 250 points higher than the other group at the sat .
這是多麼大的差異啊 ! 這根本就是兩組智商水平不同的孩子啊	it's a huge difference . it's a different group of i . q . kids .
他們都沒有任何問題 , 都是好學生	they don't have any problems . they're good students .
他們自信而且果斷 。 那麼今天我所要說的關鍵是同樣也是你們的關鍵點就是由 " 面向現在 " 轉變為 " 展望未來 "	they're selfconfident and decisive . so the key thing i'm going to talk about today is that it's also your critical point , which is to turn from " the present " to " the future . "
那什麼是時間洞察力呢 ? 這將是我下面要講的	so what is time perspective ? that's what i'm going to talk about .
時間洞察力是研究個人包括我們在內 , 如何以時間區域或時間類別為單位劃分自身的經歷體驗 。	time perspective is the study of individuals , including us , how to divide our experiences in time zones or time categories .
其實我們一直都在自然而然地做著	we've been doing it naturally .
而影響我們劃分方式的因素有很多 , 包括不同的文化背景、國家個人、社會階層以及不同的教育背景	and there are a lot of factors that influence the way we divide , including different cultural backgrounds , nations , individuals , social classes ,
問題是由於這些因素的存在 , 最終導致時間洞察力都具是片面的因為你學會經常使用其中的一些 , 而其他的則被很少使用	the problem is that these factors exist , and ultimately , time perspective is shadowy , because you learn to use some of them more often , and others are very few of them .
是什麼促使你做出那些選擇 ?	what makes you make those choices ?
你所做的決定是基於你怎麼採取行動的	the decision you make is based on how you act .
對一些人來說 , 這個決定只是基於現狀另一些人是基於他們的直覺 。	for some people , this decision was based on the status quo , and others based on their intuition .
對於那些基於現狀而做決定的人我們稱呼他們為: " 面向現在 " 因為他們專注於現正發生的事情	for those who make the decisions based on the status quo , we call them " facing now " because they focus on what's happening right now .
對於另一些人來說 , 現正發生什麼並不重要	it doesn't matter what's happening to some other people .
就好像是說: " 我以前好像經歷過類似的事情 " 一樣	it's like saying , " i've been through something like this . "
所以 , 他們基於過去的經驗來做決定	so they're making decisions based on their experiences .
我們稱呼這些人為: " 觀望過去 " , 因為他們專注於過去	we call these people , " look at the past , " because they focus on the past .
還有一部分人 , 他們的考慮不是基於現在 , 也不是過去而是未來	and some of them , not based on the present , not the past , but the future .
他們專注於預期的結果	they focus on the expected outcome .
我們稱呼這些人為:展望未來 。 因為他們專注於將來會是怎麼樣的	we call these people the future , because they're focused on what's going to happen .
那麼 , 時間悖論 , 這裡我要討論的是:時間洞察力的悖論會不會有某個因素影響你做出的每一個決定而你又完全不知 ?	so here's the paradox of time: is there a paradox of time perception that affects every single decision you make that you're completely unaware of ?
那你就具有某種程度上的片面的時間洞察力	so you have some kind of perspective of the time .
實際上是有六種時間洞察力 , 其中兩個屬於 " 面向現在 "	there are actually six kinds of time perspectives , two of which are now .
兩個屬於 " 觀望過去 " , 還有兩個屬於 " 展望未來 "	two belong to the past , and two belong to the future .
你可以專注於 " 積極經歷 " 或 " 消極經歷 "	you can focus on a positive experience or a negative experience .
也可以專注於 " 享受現在 " 指的是你專注於生活中的快樂 , 或者自身宿命這些都無所謂 , 因為你的生活盡在掌握	it can also be focused on enjoying the present , meaning that you're focused on happiness in your life or on your destiny , which doesn't matter , because your life is graspy .
當然 , 你也可以 " 展望未來 " , 設定一個目標	and of course , you can look at the future and set a goal .
或者超越未來指的是:生命在死後重新開始	or beyond the future , meaning that life begins again after death .
透過增強精神靈活性來順利地提升時間洞察力這有賴於環境的需求這就是你要學著去做的	by enhancing flexibility to smoothly enhance the insights that depend on the environment , that's what you learn to do .
那麼 , 什麼是最佳的時間洞察力呢 ?	so what's the best time perspective ?
高度依賴於 " 積極經歷 " , 適度依賴於未來	altitude depends on the positive experience , which depends on future adaptation .
適度依賴於 " 享受現在 "	adaptation depends on enjoying the present .
永遠不考慮 " 消極經歷 " 和 " 宿命論 "	never think about negative experiences and fatalism .
其實 , 最佳的時間洞察力是由你過去的經歷 " 積極經歷 " 奠定了基礎 , 你和你的家庭 , 獨立自主	in fact , the optimal time perspective is laid down by your past experience , your active experience , yours and your families , your own independence .
從未來得到是值得奮鬥的目標 , 新的挑戰	getting from the future is a fighting target , a new challenge .
從 " 享受現在 " 中得到的是動力去探索自身世界、他人以及原始需求	what you get from enjoying the present is the momentum to explore its own world , its other and its original needs .
任何時間洞察力中總是負性多於正性的	insight is always more negative than positive at any given time .
舉個例子:為了將來的成功我們需要犧牲些什麼呢 ?	for instance , what do we need to sacrifice in the future ?
我們需要犧牲和家庭在一起的時光 , 需要犧牲和朋友在一起的時光	we need to sacrifice time with our family when we need to sacrifice time with our friends .
需要犧牲那些快樂的時光 , 需要犧牲個人嗜好	you need to sacrifice those happy times , you need to sacrifice personal hobbies .
需要犧牲業餘愛好 , 需要犧牲睡眠時間 。 因此會影響身體健康	we need to sacrifice hobbies , we need to sacrifice sleep time .
他們的生活中只有工作、成就和控制慾	they only live in work , achievement and control of desire .
我保證你們在座的一些人會對此引起共鳴	i guarantee some of you will resonate with this .
這些與我引起了共鳴 , 我出生於南布朗克斯貧民窟中的一個貧困的西西里島人的家庭中 。 每個人都是在沉<unk>過去和活在當下	it resonated with me , and i was born in a poor sicilian family in the south bronx slum in a ghetto of southern bronx , where everyone was missing out and living right now .
在這裡 , 我 , 作為一位 " 展望未來 " 的人拜我的老師所賜 , 我做出了以上所有的犧牲並將我改變成為一位 " 展望未來 " 的人 。	in this case , as a teacher for the future , i made all of these sacrifices and changed me to be a future .
告訴我不要那個棉花糖因為如果你等待的話 , 就能吃到2個直到我學會了如何平衡舍與得的關係 。	tell me not that marshmallow , because if you wait , you can eat two until i learned how to balance my dorm .
現在我學會了 " 享受現在 " , 同時也學會了觀望 " 積極經歷 " 因此 , 在我76歲的時候 , 我感覺到從沒有過的精力、動力現在的我比以前任何時候都要快樂 !	now i've learned to enjoy the present , and i've learned to look at the positive experience , and so at the age of 76 , when i was 76 , i felt that i had never experienced the power , the momentum i am now happier than ever before .
這裡 , 我只是想說:要應用這個原理去解決世界上的很多問題改變學校的退學率打擊毒品 , 增強青少年健康用時間隱喻法治療那些患有創傷後應激障礙的老兵創造醫學奇蹟促進可持續發展和保護在具有50%退出率的醫院內減緩身體康復改變那些呼籲自殺的恐怖分子將家庭矛盾轉化為時間區域的衝突	here , i just want to say that applying this principle to solve many of the world's problems , to change school dropping rates , to enhance teen health metaphors , to treat those traumatic traumatic older soldiers who have posttraumatic stress disorder , to promote sustainability and protect in hospitals with 50 percent exit rates , to mitigate physical rehabilitation , to transform terrorists who are calling for suicide into conflicts in time .
最後我想說的是如果真正理解自身的以及其他人的時間觀點的話生活中的許多困惑都會被解開	the last thing i want to say is that if you truly understand yourselves and other people's time perspectives , a lot of the confusion in life will be unlocked .
道理是簡單且顯而易見的但結論是深奧的	the reason is simple and obvious , but the conclusion is profound .
今天的頭條有多少會影響100年 , 1000年 ? kirkcitron " 長遠新聞 " 專案收集那些不僅在今天有影響 , 而且還會影響幾十年甚至幾百年 。 在ted2010上 , 他指出最近的哪些頭條訊息對塑造未來具有潛在的影響	how many headlines today will affect 100 years , 1 , 000 years , kirkcitron collecting projects that will not only affect today , but will affect decades and hundreds of years . on ted2010 , he pointed out which headlines have a potential impact on shaping the future .
future , globalissues , media , news , science	the global , the issues , the lights , the news .
kirkcitron:現在 , 真正的新聞	kirkcitron: now , the real news .
我們被新聞包圍了	we were surrounded by news .
路透社一年釋出350萬新聞故事	the reuters release 3 . 5 million news stories a year .
這僅僅只是一個釋出源	it's just one source of source .
我的問題是:這些新聞到底有多少是長期有影響的	my question is: how much of these stories have been affected over the long term ?
這就是 " 長遠新聞 " 的意義	that's what long news means .
這是由longnow基金會提出的一個專案基金會由ted成員建立的包括kevinkelly和stewartbrand 。	this is a project foundation proposed by the longnow foundation , built by tedsters including kevin kelly and stewart brand .
我們試圖找出那些仍然會有深遠影響的新聞故事50 , 100或者是一萬年以後	we're trying to find news stories that are still influenced 50 , 100 , 000 years from now .
我是說新聞進過上述條件過濾後很多都會落在一邊	i mean , many of them will fall aside after the filter .
假設你已經找出去年美聯社的頭條這些頭條在10年裡內會有影響 ?	what if you've identified the headlines of the us association last year that had an impact in the last 10 years ?
會在50年或者100年內有影響嗎	will it matter in 50 years or 100 years ?
好的 , 這樣就很酷了	okay , that's pretty cool .
但是去年的頭條是經濟而且我敢打賭遲早 , 這個特殊經濟不景氣會成為舊聞	but the headlines of the last year were economic , and i bet sooner or later , this particular economic recession would be the old smell .
那麼 , 什麼樣的故事可能對未來造成影響 ?	so what kind of stories might have an impact on the future ?
好的 , 讓我們先看看科學	okay , let's take a look at the science .
某一天 , 迷你機器人能夠在我們血液裡面穿梭來修復受損	one day , miniature robots can travel through our bloodstream to repair damage .
如果你是一個老鼠的這個某一天已經到來 ,	if you're a mouse , this one day is coming .
幾個最新的文章奈米峰用真蜂毒液殺死腫瘤他們向人腦裡面植入基因他們造的一個機器人可以在人體裡爬行	some of the latest articles at the peak of real bee venom kill tumors , and they plant genes into the human brain , and a robot that they can crawl in the human body .
資源呢 ? 我們該怎麼樣滿足90億人的需求	how do we meet nine billion people's needs ?
我們現在連60億人的肚子都填飽不了	we can't feed six billion people now .
昨天我們聽到 , 有超過10人處於飢餓中	yesterday we heard more than 10 people were hungry .
沒有轉基因作物 , 英國人會捱餓	no genetically engineered crops , english people get hungry .
幸運的是比爾•蓋茨投入10億美元用於抗原研究	luckily , bill gates invested one billion dollars in antigen research .
那麼國際政治方面呢 ?	what about international politics ?
這個世界會很不一樣 , 如果讓中國設定議程而他們有可能做到的	the world would be very different if china sets agenda .
他們已經超過美國成為世界上最大的汽車市場他們超過德國成為最大的出口國他們已經開始在兒童身上做dna測試來給他們選擇職業	they've become the largest automobile market in the world , and they've become the largest exporter of germany , and they've started doing dna tests on children to choose career .
我們正在尋找各種方法推後我們知道的各種限制	we're looking for ways to push the limits that we know .
一些最近的發現有一個阿根廷的蟻群現在傳播到了每一個大陸除了南極洲有一個自我導向的機器人科學家搞出了一個發明很快 , 科學可能不再需要我們而且生活也不再需要我們一個微生物沉睡12萬年之後復活	some recent discoveries have now spread to every continent , except there's a selfdirected robot scientist in antarctica who's making a invention that soon , science may not need us , and life may not need us anymore , and we will not need a microbe to be asleep as 1 . 2 million years from now .
好像有沒有我們生命都會繼續	it seems that if we're in life , we're going to continue .
但是我選擇的去年的 " 長遠新聞 " 是這一個 , 月亮上找到了水	but the long news that i chose last year was this one , the moon found water .
這使得人類在月亮上建立殖民地簡單多了	it makes it much easier for us to colonize the moon .
如果nasa不做這個 , 也許中國或者在做的某些人會簽上一個鉅額支票	if nasa doesn't do this , maybe some people in china or are doing this will sign a giant check .
我的想表明的觀點是長遠來看 , 某些新聞故事比其他的一些新聞更重要	my idea is that for a long time , some stories are more important than some other stories .
行星科學家卡羅琳•波爾科向我們展示了卡西尼號探測器傳回的土星影象 , 探測器著重拍攝土星最大的衛星土衛六和冰凍土衛二 。	the planetary scientist carolin poleco showed us saturn's largest titan and frozen titan and ice titan .
nasa , design , exploration , science , space , technology , universe , visualizations	nasa , wants to be there , says that it's got to be there , that it's got to be there , that it's got to be there .
卡羅琳•波科帶我們傲遊土星	carolin poko takes us proud tourism .
在接下來的18分鐘裡 , 我會帶大家	i'm going to take you through the next 18 minutes .
踏上一個你我都沒停下腳步的旅程 , 50多年前 , 人類首度邁出地球 。	on a journey that you and i haven't stopped , and over 50 years ago , humans first came to earth .
在這50年間 , 人類不僅邁向月球 , 還向所有8個行星傳送機器人 , 我們的足跡遍佈小行星 , 我們還同彗星有親密接觸 , 現在 , 我們正有一個飛船駛向冥王星 , 過去冥王星也被認作行星之一 。	during those 50 years , not only did humans travel to the moon , but to all eight planets , our footprints spread across asteroids , and we had intimate contact with comets , and now we're actually having a flying ship to pluto , which used to be one of the planets .
所有這些機器人探測計劃都是人類征程的一部分:一個為理解而出發的征程 , 為理解我們置身的宇宙 , 為理解人類的起源 , 為理解地球、和人類的發展 。	all of these robotic detection projects are part of the human conquest: a journey to understand our universe , to understand the origins of humankind , to understand the origins of humankind , to understand the earth , to understand the development of humankind .
在太陽系中我們足跡可以遍及的各個角落我們尋找答案 , 人類曾登上過土星--早在上世紀80年代初--人類對土星的探索變得更加深入、透徹自打7年前羅西尼號探測器遨遊在星際間2004年羅西尼正式進入土星軌道 , 成為當時人類在太陽系走的最遠的探測器 。	in all parts of the solar system , we could find answers to questions that humans have landed on saturn in the early '80s human exploration of saturn was becoming more deeply and thoroughly navigated by the rosie probe , seven years ago , and rosie was entering the orbit of saturn in 2004 , the farthest detector of the human solar system at that time .
現在 , 土星是一個豐饒的行星系統 。	now , saturn is a rich planetary system .
她的神秘感、她帶給科學的新視角及她無與倫比的光環帶給宇宙探索無限的新發現 。	her sense of mystery , her new perspective to science and her incredible ring to discover infinitely new discoveries in the universe .
光是研究她的光環 , 我們就學到很多我們把那些星星的環狀聚集體稱為螺旋星系	just studying her ring alone , we've learned a lot about how we concentrate those rings , called spiral galaxies .
這張令人驚豔的照片是仙女座星系仙女座星系距地球最近 , 同時也是銀河中最大的螺旋星系	this is a fascinating photograph of the fauna galaxy , and most recently , the largest spiral galaxy in the milky way .
這是哈伯太空望遠鏡拍攝的漩渦星系一張美麗的圖片	this is a hubble space telescope photographing a beautiful picture of a swirl galaxy .
所以去土星的旅程實際上是--打個比方人類征程的放大要了解與周圍萬物的內在關聯性以及人類在其中的作用	so the journey to saturn is actually — it's like the amplification of the human conquest , and it's related to the inner workings of the surroundings , and the role of the human race .
不能向大家展示所有卡西尼傳回的資訊 , 我很難受	i can't show you all the information that cassini returned , and i can't get it .
因為時間緣故我無法向大家展示過去兩年半拍攝的美麗照片	and because of the time , i can't show you a beautiful photograph taken over the last two and a half years .
不過 , 我會著重於過去兩年半探索土星旅程中兩個最激動人心的方面	but i will focus on the two most exciting aspects of saturn's journey in the last two and a half years .
土星被一組龐大而多樣的衛星所環繞	saturn is surrounded by a large , diverse set of satellites .
它們當中 , 有的僅幾千米大 , 有的有美國從東南到北那麼大	some of them are thousands of meters , some of them , from the southeast to the northeast .
其實 , 最美麗的照片是那些有衛星環繞的土星照片 。 這是一張土星和土衛四這是一張土星光環側向地球這光環實際上縱向是很淺薄的 , 旁邊是土衛二	in fact , the most beautiful pictures of saturn with satellites surrounding saturn . this is a saturn and titan , and this is a ring of saturn , and this ring is actually vertical , very shallow , next to titan .
土星47個衛星中有兩個是很突出的	two of saturn's 47 satellites are very prominent .
土衛六和土衛二 。 土衛六是土星最大的衛星直到卡西尼進入其軌道這是對太陽系未知領域的又一次重大探索	enceladus and enceladus . titan is the largest satellite of saturn , until cassini gets into orbit , and this is after enormous exploration of the solar system .
對於研究行星的人這可是一個令人朝思暮想的形體	for those of you who study planets , this is an intriguing form .
它有一個巨大、渾厚的大氣事實上它的氣候與地球大氣非常接近至少過去相較於其他行星來說是這樣的	it has a massive , thick atmosphere , and in fact its climate is very close to earth's atmosphere , at least in the past , compared to other planets .
它的大氣有分子態氮組成 , 就像我們現在這個房間一樣不過它的大氣中充滿甲烷、丙烷和乙烷等有機材質	its atmosphere is made of molecular nitrogen , like we do in this room , but its atmosphere is filled with methane , propane and ethane , organic materials .
土衛六上這些分子含量很高這些分子分解後形成煙霧	these molecules are high in titan , and these molecules break down and form smoke .
這些煙霧無處不在 , 瀰漫於整個土衛六	these smokes are everywhere , they're filled with titan .
在我們肉眼可辨識的範圍內其表面是不可見的	in our naked eyes , the surfaces are invisible .
但這些霧氣的存在不過是推測在卡西尼探測的數億年前這些霧氣懸浮於地表後附著其上形成有機汙垢	but the existence of these mists was speculated that hundreds of millions of years before the cassini detection , these mists float around behind the surface and form organic foul on it .
類似於地球上的焦油 , 或油什麼的 , 我也不清楚	it's kind of like the tar on earth , or oil , i don't know .
我們是這樣推測的 。 這些分子尤其是甲烷和乙烷 , 在土星地溫下是液態的 。	we speculate that . these molecules , especially methane and ethane , are liquid at ground temperature .
我們發現甲烷就是土星的水 。	and what we found was that methane was the water of saturn .
在大氣裡是可以凝縮的這一發現為許多稀奇古怪的設想提供了可能 。 土星有甲烷雲層 。 甲烷雲層上有數百公里高的霧氣層光線無法穿透雲層射向地面	in the atmosphere , it's possible to condense this discovery , which provides multiple odd assumptions: saturn has methane clouds , methane clouds , hundreds of kilometers of fog light , cannot penetrate the ground .
土星地面氣溫僅為零下350華氏度	the air temperature on saturn is only 350 degrees fahrenheit .
雖冷 , 但還有雨	it's cold , but it's rain .
就像地球一樣 , 土星在雨的作用下形成溪谷河流和大瀑布、峽谷、盆地和地坑 。	just like the earth , saturn formed the valley rivers and the great waterfalls , the grand canyons , the basins and the craters .
雨洗淨山頂的汙垢然後衝向地底 。 大家停下來想一想	rainwashing mountaintop scums and rushing towards the ground .
土星的地表會是什麼樣子呢 ?	what would the surface of saturn look like ?
月光下的土星是黑暗的 , 就像黎明前的地球	the moonlights of saturn are dark , like the earth before dawn .
此時寒冷、陰森、霧氣繚繞還有可能在下雨 , 想象站在雨中面前是密歇根湖 , 閃閃發光	at this point , it's cold , it's shiny , it's fogynized , it's rainy , it's in front of the rain , it's lake michigan , it's flashing .
在卡西尼問世前 , 我們是這樣想象土星的我們的發現 , 雖細節上有差異但同樣令人神往	before the cassini came along , we thought about saturn's details , but it was also remarkable .
對於我們來說 , 對熱愛卡西尼的人來所這就像凡爾納的小說變成現實	for us , for those of us who love cassini , this is like verne's novel to be reality .
正如我所說的 , 土星有一個厚重的大氣	as i said , saturn has a heavy atmosphere .
這張是土星在太陽的光輝下光環奕奕生彩的照片	this is a gambling gambling of saturn's glory beneath the sun .
這是另一個衛星我也不清楚是哪一個 。 它的大氣面積很大	this is another satellite , and i don't know which one . it's very large .
卡西尼上的裝置可以穿過大氣看清土星地表我的裝置也在上面	the devices in cassini can go through the atmosphere and see the surface of saturn , and my devices are up there .
我們的照片中有這樣的	this is what we have in this picture .
其中有光明和黑暗的區域 , 我們的裝置也只能達到這個水平	there's brightness and darkness , and our devices can only reach this level .
這很神秘--我們怎樣也無法弄清土星地表	it's very mysterious how we can't figure out the surface of saturn .
仔細觀察你會有所發現比如蜿蜒的渠道 , 這是我們以前所不知的 , 你還能看到環狀物	and if you look closely , you'll find channels like winding , which we didn't know , and you'll see circles .
後來我們這是一個地坑但土衛六上卻沒有幾個所以這個地表是新形成的	and then we were a crater , but not a lot on titan , so the surface was new .
同時還有地質構造	it's also geological .
有些似乎是被撕裂的	some seem to be torn apart .
在任何行星上看到線形地質就說明有斷層	in any planet , you see a linear geological geological landscape .
這裡的地質結構被改變過	the geomic structure here has been changed .
但我們無法理解這些圖片直到6個月後卡西尼進入土星軌道一個發現可以被稱為卡西尼土星征程的里程碑	but we couldn't understand these pictures until six months later , when cassini went into the orbit of saturn , a discovery that could be called the cassini conquest .
這是惠更斯號探測器的投入使用卡西尼攜帶的歐洲製造的惠更斯號傲遊了7年 。 我們將它步入土衛六大氣中經過兩個半小時的降落 , 最終著陸與土衛六	this is the european huygens probe that was portrayed using the huygens probe from the cassini probe for seven years , and we landed it in the atmosphere of titan for two and a half hours , and titan and titan .
我想強調一下其重要性	i want to emphasize how important it is .
這是人造的裝置在人類歷史上首次著陸與太陽系外	this is the manmade device , the first time in human history , out of the solar system .
這對我很重要我們應該在歐美用彩車大肆慶祝雖沒實現	and that's important to me , and we should celebrate it with lottery , even though it didn't happen .
重大的原因還有一個 , 那就是 , 這是一次國際任務在歐洲 , 德國 , 人們舉國歡慶慶祝演講在英國美國、德國、法國、義大利和荷蘭進行	one of the biggest reasons is that it's an international mission in europe , germany , where people celebrate speeches in the u . s . , germany , france , italy and the netherlands .
這是你個激動人心的對 " 聯合國 " 的定義一個真正的各個國家參與的 , 致力於人類共同未來的聯合體	it's a very exciting definition of the united nations , a true nationstate engagement , dedicated to the joints of a common future .
這樣 , 探索一顆行星是一個極大的任務並且 , 實現探索了一個人類歷史上不曾踏足的行星系統是多麼一個壯舉	in this way , exploring a planet is a massive mission to deliver exploration of what an unsteady planetary system in human history is .
一說的這兒 , 我都起雞皮疙瘩了	so here i am , goosebumps .
這是幾個激動人心的時刻我會永遠銘記 , 大家也應銘記在心	this is a few moments of excitement that i'll always remember , and it's something to keep in mind .
但是 , 探測器在著陸過程中收集了資料拍攝了全景照片	but during the course of the landing , the detector gathered data and photographed it .
那第一張土衛六地表的照片真的是無法形容的它是這樣的	the first picture on the surface of titan was literally impossible to describe it .
挺讓人震驚的 , 這就是我們期待已久的軌道上的照片	it's quite shocking , and that's the picture that we're expecting for a long time .
這是一個清晰的、地理的影象	this is a clear , geographical image .
這種樹枝狀的格局只會是水流形成的	this branching grid would only be waterflowing .
你可以在水道中航行看看他們是如何覆蓋地表的	you can sail in the waterway and see how they cover the surface .
水道進入這個流域後又注入那個地區	the channels enter that stream , they inject it in that area .
你看到的是濱線	you're looking at the waterfront line .
是液態的嗎 ? 我們不得而知	is it liquid ?
但這是某種形態的濱線	but this is some form of waterfront .
這張照片是在16千米的高空拍攝的	this is a photograph of 16 , 000 meters in high sky .
這張是8千米 。 好 , 再看濱線	this is 8 , 000 meters . okay , look at the waterfront .
好 , 16千米 , 8千米--	ok , 16 , 000 meters , 8 , 000 meters .
這大約就是在美國的飛機飛行高度	that's about the altitude of airplanes in the united states .
這就是飛行在土衛六上的飛機窗外的景色	this is the view of an airplane on titan .
最後 , 探測器著陸女士們、先生們 , 我將向你們展示首張太陽系外行星衛星地表照片	finally , the lander , ladies and gentlemen , i'm going to show you the first picture of an extrasolar surface of the solar system .
這是地平線	this is the horizon .
這些是小冰塊	these are little ice sheets .
很明顯 , 探測器著陸與平坦、黑暗的區域探測器沒有下沉消失 。 所以它沒有落在水路上	clearly , the detector landed and flat and dark , and the detector didn't sink . so it didn't fall on the waterway .
實際上這是土衛六版的泥巴地	this is actually mud land on titan .
這片疏鬆的土地上充滿了液態的甲烷	this relaxed land is filled with liquid methane .
大概這就是為何這些物質衝下土衛六的高地流下那些我們看過的水道萬年不變的注入低窪的盆地	that's why these substances rush down the highlands of titan , the waterways that we've seen for tens of thousands of years , into lowlying basins .
惠更斯號就著陸於此	the huygens landed here .
但我們的照片中惠更斯號傳回的照片中還是沒有一點水的跡象	but our photograph huygens returned from pictures that huygens still had no sign of water .
水在哪兒呢 ? 當我們發現沙丘的時候 , 這一切變得更加撲朔迷離 。	where's the water ? when we discover sand dunes , all of this becomes more sensational .
這是我們土衛六赤道區域的影象這些影片中的沙丘都有100多米高每個相間幾千米它們延綿不絕	this is an image of our equatorial regions of titan where sand dunes are over 100 meters high , and each of them is a thousand meters apart , and they're not extended .
這是1000到1200公里長的沙丘	this is 1 , 000 to 1 , 200 kilometers of dune .
可以稱得上是土衛六的撒哈拉	it's called the sahara of titan .
很明顯 , 要是不幹燥就不會有沙丘	obviously , if you don't get dry , you're not going to get dunes .
所以 , 讓人費解的是沒有水但後來我們在兩極地區找到湖泊	so , the tricky thing is , there's no water , but then we found lakes in both polar regions .
這是一張土衛六南極湖區的景緻	this is a landscape of lake titan .
大概有安大略湖那麼大	it's about as big as lake lanta .
就在10天前探測器在土衛六北極上空飛行時找到有裡海那麼大的影象	just 10 days ago , probes flew over the north pole of titan to find the midwater image .
我們不解的是 , 那液體在某些季節會出現在土衛六極地地區	what we don't know is that fluid , in some seasons , is in the titan region .
你也會覺得土衛六很奇妙、神秘 。 充滿異域風情 。 但有處處與地球相似有地球一樣的地貌以及繁多的地形這個神奇的行星在太陽系裡唯一可以與之在複雜性和豐富性上相抗衡的只有地球	you'll find titan as wonderful , mysterious as heterozoid storms , but it's everywhere in the same landscape as the earth and its fertility of terrain , the only planet in the solar system that can compete with its complexity and abundance alone .
再來看看土衛二 。 土衛二是個很小的星球大有隻有土衛六十分之一大 , 這是它和英國做比較只是比較大小 , 不是地球安全威脅	and if you look at enceladus . enceladus is a very small planet , and there's a 60th the size of titan , which is compared to the u . k . , compared to the size , not the threat of earth security .
土衛二很白 , 很亮其地表充滿斷裂層	enceladus is white , it's bright , it's filled with faults .
土衛二地質活動活躍	titan is active .
但其南極上的母礦--這是南極我們在此發現地質斷裂	but the female mines on the south pole this is antarctica , where we found geological broken .
這塊兒顏色不一樣是因為組成不同	it's different because it's different .
這些斷層上附著這有機物質	these are organic materials attached to these faults .
同時 , 著整個區域 , 南極區域溫度升高 。 是土衛二上溫度最高的地區	meanwhile , the entire region , the antarctic , is hotter up . it's the hottest region on enceladus .
這很怪 , 就像哪天地球上的南極變得比赤道地區還熱	it's weird . it's like , you know , the antarctic on the earth is hotter than the equator .
再看看其他照片從這些斷層中噴射出冰物質噴向空中	and look at other pictures from these faults , spraying ice sheets into the air .
經過影象處理呈現出的光線漸變我們可以看到噴射出的冰狀物形成羽毛形狀在其它影象中 , 有上千裡直入土衛二的空中	as the image processed light gradually shifts , we can see the shooting of the ice , forming a feather shape , in thousands of other images , going straight into the sky of enceladus .
我和我的小組對影象進行分析就像這張 , 還有其他卡西尼傳回的照片	i did the image analysis with my group , like this one , and other cassini photographs .
我們得出結論這些噴出物可能是從小區域噴出的土衛二地下的液體	and we came to the conclusion that these jets could be erupting from the titanic fluid below enceladus .
可能是液體 , 有機物或餘熱	it could be a liquid , it could be organic , it could be hot .
這是意外的發現現代星系探索的聖盃也就是另一個生命體可以存活的環境	this is an unexpected discovery of the holy graphic cup exploration of modern galaxies , another living environment that can survive .
不用我說 , 大家都知道在太陽系內其他行星不管是土衛二還是其他什麼地方發現生命跡象在文化和科技上是多麼重大的啊	needless to say , we all know about planets in our solar system , whether it's enceladus or anywhere else , how significant it is to discover life in culture and technology .
要是我們可以證明創世紀的存在不知是一次 , 還是兩次 , 在太陽系中其他星球意味著 , 透過推斷 , 在宇宙137億年的歷史上不斷髮生過	if we could prove that the creation of the century was once , or twice , the rest of the planet in our solar system would mean , by inferring , hair was constantly haired over the 13 . 7 billion years of history .
現在 , 地球是我們唯一知道的充滿生機的行星	now , earth is the only living planet that we know of .
是珍貴、獨特的同時也是我們唯一的家園	it's valuable , unique , and it's our only home .
對於警覺思辨的人來說上世紀60年代要不是那樣的人也沒關係要是你還記得那令人難忘的1968年阿波羅8號宇航員拍下的照片	it doesn't matter if that was the case in the '60s , if you remember that unfortunate photograph taken by astronaut apollo 8 , 1968 .
那是首張從太空中拍下的地球照片這張照片對我們行星的位置以及保衛家園的責任感有了深刻衝擊	it was the first photograph taken from space , and this photograph had a deep impact on our location of our planet and our guardian sense of responsibility .
可以說卡西尼第一條做到了人類肉眼看不到的照片	it's kind of like cassini's first photograph made from the human eye .
這是土星另一面看到的日蝕	this is a sun eclipse on the other side of saturn .
在這張沒得令人窒息的照片中那些光環被太陽的光輝點亮這是太陽的折射成像這些光環是土衛二的散發物創造出來的	in this picture of the suffocation , the rings light up by the sun , and this is the sun , and these rings are created by the distribution of enceladus .
要是這些還不夠美 , 那看看這些我們行星的圖片被土星的光環所環抱	if these aren't beautiful enough , look at the images of our planets that are hugged by saturn's rings .
從遠處看我們的家園是很感人的在外太空拍下我們海藍的行星	from far away , our home is a very moving place to take a picture of our ocean blue planets .
也許這場長達半個世紀的探索追中給我們的獎勵是對我們自己更深的認識	maybe this long , half a centurylong pursuit of exploration gave us a reward to a deeper understanding of ourselves .
截止到2005年 , 全世界只有15%的區域有精確的地圖 。 這使得災後救助緩慢 , 而不明的地形和道路也使得經濟無法發達 。 在這個簡短的演說裡 , google的laliteshkatragadda展示了mapmaker , 一個多人使用的地圖創作軟體 , 使世界各地的人都能夠幫忙標示地圖 。	by 2005 , only 15 percent of the world's regions had a precise map , which made it a slow rescue , and the unknown terrain and the roads made the economy unleashable , and in this brief presentation , google's liteshka trada show mapper , a multiplayered map of software that people could help map the world .
collaboration , design , map , technology	collaboration , it's ok , it's ok .
laliteshkatragadda:製作地圖 , 佔勝災難 , 發達經濟	laliette katragada: make maps , occupy catastrophes , develop economies .
2008年nargis颱風襲擊了緬甸	in 2008 , nargis stormed burma .
數百萬人急需幫助	millions of people desperately need help .
聯合國想排程人員、物資進入災區	the u . n . wants to schedule people , get into the disaster zone .
但是標明災區道路的地圖並不存在地圖上也沒有標示醫院 , 因此無法幫助颱風受害的民眾 。	but the maps of the disaster zone didn't exist on the map , and they didn't show hospitals , and therefore they couldn't help hurricanes .
當我們看洛杉磯 , 倫敦的地圖時讓人難以置信的是截止到2005年全世界只有15%的地方有精確地圖可供地理軟體使用	when we look at the map of los angeles , london , it's unbelievable that only 15 percent of the world's geographic software was available in 2005 .
聯合國跟世界大部分的人們遭遇到一樣的問題:沒有詳細的地圖 。	the united nations , like most people in the world , have the same problem: no detailed maps .
幸好援助來了	fortunately , aid came .
在谷歌有40個志願者用一個軟體標示了120 , 000公里的路3000個醫院 , 運輸和救援中心	at google , there are 40 volunteers tagging 120 , 000 kilometers of roads , 3 , 000 hospitals , transportation and rescue centers .
他們一共花了四天	it took them four days .
他們用的軟體 ? 叫googlemapmaker	the software they used ? it's called google mapmaker .
googlemapmaker是一個允許我們標註我們地方訊息的科技	google mapmaker is a technology that allows us to tag our local messages .
人們使用這套軟體在地圖上標註了道路 , 河流學校 , 地方企業電影出租店到街角的商店 。	people used this software to map roads , river schools , local businesses , rent stores to street corner stores .
諾貝爾獎被提名人hernamdodesoto認為發展那些大量未被開發的土地對發展中國家的經濟躍進起著關鍵性的作用 。	the nobel prize was nominated by hernam dodesoto , who believed that development of massive landscapes of untapped land was critical to economic leaps in the developing world .
舉例來說 , 光在印度還有三兆美元價值的不動產沒被髮展 。	for example , in india alone , there are still three trilliondollar real estate in property that has no hair exhibition .
光在去年在170個國家數千個使用者在地圖上加上了數百萬筆的訊息創造了前所未有的精確度	last year alone in 170 countries alone , thousands of users plus millions of messages on the map alone created unprecedented accuracy .
這都要感謝世界各地熱情的使用者使這一切變為可能 。	and this is all thanks to the passionate users around the world to make this possible .
現在讓我們看一看這些使用者標註地圖的情況:	now let's take a look at what these users are mapping .
就在我們在這裡演說的同時有170個國家的人在標示地圖	and as we speak here , there are 170 nations tagging .
你可以看到在非洲的bridget在標示賽內加爾的道路	you can see bridget in africa on the road in senegal .
離這近一點的chulua在標示班加羅爾的ng路	chulua , closer to this , tagged bangalore's ng .
這是綜合了計算機地理動作識別 , 機器學習的結果	this is the result of computational geometry recognition , machine learning .
這是分佈在數百個城市數千個使用者的勝利一個使用者 , 一次編輯一個訊息	this is the victory of thousands of users in hundreds of cities , one user , one edit at a time .
這也是對全球那70%還沒標註地圖的地區的邀請	this is an invitation to the 70 percent of the world's maps .
歡迎來到新世界	welcome to the new world .
2003年 , 在巴勒斯坦的一個叫佈德魯斯的村莊 , 人們為阻止以色列軍隊在他們的橄欖叢上建立圍牆而舉行了一場耗時10個月的非暴力抗議運動 。 你聽說過這件事嗎 ? 估計沒有 。 巴西電影製片人朱莉婭•帕夏問道: , 為什麼我們只關注巴以衝突相關的暴力事件--而不關注那些可能有朝一日帶來和平的非暴力領導人呢 ?	in palestinian village , in 2003 , in a village called bundruce , where people blocked the israeli army from establishing walls on their olive bush and held a 10month nonviolent protest , did you hear about it ?
arts , communication , compassion , entertainment , film , peace , violence , war	arts , communication , and assion , which is a bettainment , which is peace , violence , warrior , violence .
朱莉婭•帕夏:關注非暴力	julia parsha: pay attention to nonviolence .
在過去的八年中我全身心投入到了關於以色列人和巴勒斯坦人用和平方式解決衝突的紀錄片拍攝中	for the last eight years , i've spent my entire life working on israelis and palestinians in peaceful ways to resolve conflict .
每當我為了工作了出差無論在歐洲還是美國我總碰到一個問題巴勒斯坦的甘地在哪裡	every time i go to work , whether it's in europe or the united states , i get a problem where palestinian gandhi is .
為什麼巴勒斯坦人不採用非暴力抵抗	why palestinians do not adopt nonviolent resistance .
每當我聽到這個問題就感到為難因為這時我往往才從中東工作回來在那裡我的工作是拍攝幾十位巴勒斯坦人他們透過非暴力的手段保衛土地和水資源免受以色列士兵和定居者的剝奪	and every time i hear that , it's hard , because i often come back from work in the middle east , where my job is to photograph dozens of palestinians who are protecting land and water resources from israeli soldiers and settlers .
這些領導人正在努力組織一場全國範圍的大規模非暴力運動來結束侵佔在這個地區建和平	these leaders are working to organize a nationwide , largescale nonviolent movement to end invasion in this area .
然而大多數人可能從來沒有聽說過他們	but most of us may never have heard of them .
真相與外界猜想之間的隔閡就是關鍵原因之一解釋為何巴勒斯坦和平抵抗運動尚未取得成功	the gap between truth and the outside guess is one of the key reasons why the palestinian peaceful resistance movement has not yet achieved success .
我今天來談論的是關注的力量你們的關注的力量以及約旦河西岸加沙地帶和其它地方非暴力運動的興起和發展而今天我案例分析的主角是巴勒斯坦	i'm here to talk about the power of attention , the power of attention , the rise of nonviolent movements in the west banks of jordan , the rise of jordan , the rise of nonviolent movements , and the protagonists that i'm working on today ,
我認為非暴力運動的成長最欠缺的並不是讓巴勒斯坦人開始進行非暴力運動而是讓我們開始關注那些早已開始非暴力運動的人	i think that the worst thing about the growth of nonviolent movements is not that palestinians are starting to perform nonviolent movements , but rather that we're starting to look at people who are already no
請容我帶領你們進入這個村莊來解釋這個道理這個村莊叫佈德魯斯	and let me take you into this village to explain this village , which is a village called baldrus .
大約七年前這裡的人們面臨著滅頂之災以色列宣佈它將築起一堵圍牆而其中一段將跨過這個村莊	about seven years ago , people were facing an extinction catastrophe , announced by israel that it was going to build a wall , and one of them was going to cross the village .
村民將失去40%的土地並被包圍起來失去從這裡進入約旦河西岸地區的自由	the villagers will lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded , and they will lose freedom from here to the west bank .
在當地領導人的激勵下他們發動了一場和平抵抗運動以避免發生這樣的結果	and with the inspiration of local leaders , they launched a peaceful resistance movement to avoid that .
我給大家播放影片的一些片斷讓你們大致瞭解實地發生的情況	so i'm going to show you some of the clips that i showed you , and i'm going to give you a sense of what's happening here .
巴勒斯坦女子:他們說那堵圍牆會將巴勒斯坦和以色列分隔開來	palestinian woman: they said the wall would separate palestine from israel .
在佈德魯斯我們意識到那堵牆會搶佔我們的土地	in budrus , we realized that the wall was robbing our land .
以色列男子:這堵圍牆事實上是防止恐怖行動的一項解決方法	israeli man: the wall is actually a solution to preventing terrorism .
今天我號召大家加入一場和平的遊行	today , i call on a peace march .
與你們並肩行動的是幾十位以色列兄弟姊妹	working side by side with you dozens of israeli brothers and sisters .
以色列行動主義者:最令軍隊害怕的就是非暴力抵抗	israeli activist: what scares the army most is nonviolent resistance .
女子:我們看到男人們試圖推開那些士兵但是沒有人成功	woman: we saw men trying to push those soldiers , but nobody succeededed .
而我認為姑娘們能夠做到	and i think girls can do it .
法塔赫組織成員:我們必須清空頭腦中傳統的觀念	fatah member: we have to clear up the conventional wisdom in the mind .
哈馬斯組織成員:我們是完全和平的我們希望讓它遍及整個巴勒斯坦	hamas: we're completely peaceful , and we want it to go all the way through palestine .
口號聲:團結一致的民族	slogan: solidarity .
法塔赫哈馬斯人民陣線	the fatah hamas people's fronts .
新聞主播:圍牆附近的衝突仍在繼續	news anchor: conflicts around the wall continue .
記者:以色列邊警受命驅逐抗議人群	interviewer: israeli police deported protesters .
他們被允許採用一切必要的強制手段	they're allowed to adopt the mandates necessary .
男子:他們正在開火	man: they're on fire .
這裡就像費盧傑到處是槍聲	this is like the sound of a gunshot everywhere .
以色列行動主義者:我知道我們是去送死	israeli activist: i know we are dying .
但是我身邊的許多人沒有一絲畏懼	but many of the people around me don't fear .
以色列士兵:一場非暴力抗議無法阻止我們建立這堵牆	israeli soldier: a nonviolent protest can't stop us from building this wall .
抗議者:這是一場和平的示威遊行	protesters: this is a peaceful protest march .
我們不需要使用暴力	we don't need to use violence .
口號聲:我們必勝我們必勝	slogan: we must win .
朱莉婭•帕夏:當我第一次聽說佈德魯斯的這段故事我感到非常驚訝全球媒體居然沒有報道在2003年也就是七年以前所發生的這一系列了不起的事件	julia passha: when i first heard this story from bew russ , i was surprised that the world's media had no newspaper in 2003 , this amazing series of events that happened seven years ago .
而更令人吃驚的是佈德魯斯最終取得了勝利	and what's even more surprising is that leuce eventually won .
經過長達10個月的和平抵抗運動那裡的居民說服了以色列政府將圍牆從他們的土地遷出轉而遷到綠線上也就是國際公認的巴以領土分界線上	over the course of 10 months of peaceful resistance , where residents convinced israeli governments to migrate from their lands to the green line , the international recognition of baseline .
佈德魯斯的抵抗運動的影響從此遍及約旦河西岸的所有村莊以及耶路撒冷境內的巴勒斯坦人居住區	the impact of bulderrus' resistance has spread across all of the villages in the west bank and the palestinian settlements in jerusalem .
然而媒體對這些事件幾乎隻字未提	but the media has very little to say about these events .
這種漠視給巴勒斯坦非暴力運動的成長甚至生存產生了沉重的打擊	this indifference depends on the growth of nonviolent movements in palestine and even the survival of survival .
暴力抵抗和非暴力抵抗有一個非常重要的共同點兩者像一個劇院渴望吸引觀眾的青睞	violence resistance and nonviolent resistance have a very important common denominator: a desire to attract audiences .
如果暴力演員總是領銜主演將全球目光聚焦巴勒斯坦問題那麼非暴力領導人就很難向他們的民眾證明和平的反抗才是帶他們脫離苦海的可行方案	if violent actors are always leading the world to focus on palestinian problems , then nonviolent leaders are struggling to demonstrate peace to their citizens that it is possible to get them out of the suffering .
在座為人父母的估計對關注的力量並不陌生	the estimates for a parent are not unfamiliar with the power of attention .
如果孩子第一次鬧脾氣就得到父母的注意那麼你的孩子以後肯定會鬧得更厲害	if your child ever gets a parent's attention for the first tantrum , then your child will surely be much more awesome .
鬧脾氣就會成為兒童心理學家所說的功能性行為孩子學會用這種方式引起父母的注意	the temple becomes what a child psychologist calls functional behavior , and the child learns to catch a parent's attention in this way .
父母可以透過關注或不予理睬來鼓勵或抑制此行為	parents can encourage or inhibit that by paying attention or not giving ignored reasons .
而這也適用於成年人	and this applies to adults .
事實上社群和國家的行為是能夠受到影響而改變的而這取決於國際社會選擇關注的方面	in fact , the behavior of communities and countries can be affected and changed , depending on the international selection of international society .
我相信解決中東地區的衝突給這裡帶來和平關鍵是我們要透過更多地關注當地的非暴力領袖來把非暴力行動轉變為一種功能性行為	i believe that the key to solving conflict in the middle east is to bring peace here , and we need to take more attention to local nonviolent leaders to transform nonviolent action into a functional behavior .
在約旦河西岸加沙地帶以及東耶路撒冷地區拍攝那裡的村莊時我親眼目睹了區區一部紀錄片對行為轉變所帶來的影響	in the west banks of jordan , in the west bank , in gaza , and in east jerusalem , i saw firsthand the impact of a documentary film on behavioral transformation .
在離耶路撒冷很近的一個名叫瓦拉傑的村子那裡的村民面臨著與佈德魯斯相似的困境	in a village near jerusalem called varajo , where the villagers face a plight similar to broadrush .
他們即將被包圍起來失去大片土地無法自由進入約旦河西岸或耶路撒冷	they're going to be surrounded , lose mass of land , freedom of access to the west bank or jerusalem .
在進行了長達兩年的非暴力抵抗之後他們最終心灰意冷因為他們沒有得到任何人的注意	after two years of nonviolent resistance , they eventually frustrated because they didn't get anybody's attention .
於是我們在那裡組織播放了紀錄片	so we showed the documentary film there .
一週之後他們組織了一場在當時參與人數最多最有紀律的遊行示威	a week later , they organized the most disciplined protest to participate at the time .
組織者們說當村民在紀錄片中看到佈德魯斯的故事他們感覺到確實有人與他們志同道合人們是在乎的	the organizers said that when the villagers saw bedrus in his documentary film , they felt that there was a real sense that people really cared with them .
於是他們沒有放棄	so they didn't give up .
以色列有一個新的和平運動被稱為 " 索裡德拉爾特 " 在希伯來語中意為 " 團結一致 "	israel has a new peace movement called soledret , which means " unity " in the hebrew language .
佈德魯斯的故事成為了這個運動的領導者招兵買馬的主要手段之一	and broadruce's story became one of the leaders of the movement to recruit himself to buy horses .
他們反映說那些從未加入任何運動的以色列人看了紀錄片之後瞭解了非暴力抵抗的力量並開始加入他們行動	they reflected that israelis who had never joined any movement had seen documentaries and understood the power of nonviolent resistance and began to join them .
瓦拉傑和索裡德拉爾特運動的例子告訴我們即使是小成本的獨立電影也能夠幫助非暴力抵抗轉變為一種功能性行為	the varaje and solid laurate movements have shown us that even small independent films can help nonviolent resistance to be functional .
想象一下主流媒體若是開始報道每週在貝拉因尼亞林瓦拉傑等村莊以及耶路撒冷境內的香克哈拉和西路萬巴勒斯坦居住區裡發生的非暴力示威活動這將產生多麼巨大的力量更多的人會關注非暴力運動領導者重視他們讓他們的工作更有成效	imagine if mainstream media started reporting about villages like bellau lynwaraj , and choke harala in jerusalem , and the nonviolent demonstrations in the habitat residence of the palestinian neighborhood , which is so enormous that more people pay attention to nonviolent activists and make their work better .
我相信最重要的是我們要認識到如果我們不關注這些運動它們就是隱形的彷彿從來沒有發生過	i believe the most important thing to recognize is that if we don't pay attention to these movements , they are invisible as if they haven't happened before .
但我以親身經歷為證如果我們關注這些運動就會得到發展	but i testify as a personal experience that if we pay attention to these movements , we'll be developed .
它們一旦發展其影響力就會遍及巴以衝突	when they develop their influence , they're all over the palestinian conflict .
這種影響能夠最終將衝突化解	this influence ultimately resolves conflict .
這些領導者證明了非暴力運動在佈德魯斯這樣的地方是可行的	these leaders proved that nonviolent movements work in places like dress .
我們一起來關注他們讓他們證明這在任何地方都是可行的	and we watched them , and they showed that it was possible anywhere .
西蒙•斯涅克用一個簡單但是震撼的模型來闡釋激勵人心的領袖力 , 這個模型的核心是一個 " 黃金 " 圓圈 , 意思是領袖素質的根本來源是回答 " 為什麼 ? " 。 他列舉了蘋果公司、馬丁•路德•金還有萊特兄弟成功的例子 , 同時以蒂沃數碼錄影機為失敗的典型 。 雖然蒂沃最近打贏一場官司 , 使得其股價上漲了3倍 , 但是它仍在掙扎中 。	simone snoneck illustrates the inspirational leadership in the heart of this model , which is a golden circle , meaning the fundamental source of the leader's quality is " why ? " he lists apple , martin luther king and wright's brother's successful example , and loses the typical digital video clip .
bullseye , business , entrepreneur , leadership , sales , selling , success	bull seye , it's a state of entrepreneur , it's no longer true , it's sales , selling , it's success .
西蒙•斯涅克:偉大的領袖如何激勵行動	simone snonek: how great leaders inspire action .
當事情的發展出乎意料之外的時候 , 你怎麼解釋 ?	how do you explain when things are developing unexpectedly ?
換句話說 , 當別人似乎出乎意料地取得成功的時候 , 你怎麼解釋 ?	in other words , how do you explain when someone seems to be successful in unexpected ways ?
比如說 , 為什麼蘋果公司創新能力這麼強 ?	for example , why is apple so innovative ?
這麼多年來 , 年復一年 , 他們比所有競爭對手都更加具有創新性 。	over the years , years and years , they've been more innovative than all their competition .
而其實他們只是一家電腦公司 。	and they're actually just a computer company .
他們跟其他公司沒有任何分別 ,	they didn't have anything to do with the other companies .
有同樣的途徑 , 接觸到同樣的人才 , 同樣的代理商 , 顧問 , 和媒體 。	there are the same pathways , exposure to the same talents , the same agents , the consultants , the media .
那為什麼他們就似乎有那麼一點不同尋常呢 ?	so why do they seem to be so remarkable ?
同樣的 , 為什麼是由馬丁•路德•金來領導民權運動 ?	similarly , why is it that martin luther king came to lead the civil rights movement ?
那個時候在美國 , 民權運動之前 , 不僅僅只有他一個人飽受歧視 。 他也決不是那個時代唯一的偉大演說家 。	at that time , before the civil rights movement , it wasn't just himself suffering discrimination , it was determined that he was not the only great orator of the time .
又為什麼懷特兄弟能夠造出動力控制的載人飛機 , 跟他們相比 , 當時的其他團隊似乎更有能力 , 更有資金 ,	and why the white brothers were able to create drivers who were able to control , compared to them , other teams at the time seemed more capable , more funded .
他們卻沒能製造出載人飛機 , 懷特兄弟打敗了他們 。	they didn't make a carrier airplane , and the white brothers beat them .
一定還有一些什麼別的因素在起作用 。	there must be some other factors that are going on .
大概三年半之前 , 我有了個新發現 ,	about three and a half years ago , i made a new discovery .
這個發現完全改變了我對這個世界如何運作的看法 。 甚至從根本上改變了我的工作生活方式 。	this discovery completely changed how i think about how the world works , and even fundamentally changed the way i work .
那就是我發現了一種模式 ,	and that's how i discovered a pattern .
我發現世界上所有偉大的令人振奮的領袖和組織 , 無論是蘋果公司、馬丁•路德•金還是懷特兄弟 , 他們思考、行動、交流溝通的方式都完全一樣 ,	i find out that all the great leaders and organizations in the world , whether it's apple or martin luther king or white brothers , they think , act , communicate in exactly the same way .
但是跟所有其他人的方式完全相反 。	but the opposite is true of everybody else .
我所做的僅僅是把它整理出來 。 這可能是世上最簡單的概念 。	all i did was to organize it . it's probably the simplest concept in the world .
我稱它為黃金圓環 。	i call it the golden circle .
為什麼 ? 怎麼做 ? 是什麼 ?	why ? how ? what ?
這小小的模型就解釋了為什麼一些組織和領導者能夠在別人不能的地方激發出靈感和潛力 。	this little model explains why some organizations and leaders can inspire and potential where others cannot .
我來儘快地解釋一下這些術語 。	i'm going to explain those terms very quickly .
地球上的每個人 , 每個組織都明白自己做的是什麼 , 百分之百 。	everyone on this planet , every organization on this planet , understood what they were doing , 100 percent .
其中一些知道該怎麼做 , 你可以稱之為是你的差異價值 , 或是你的獨特工藝 , 或是你的獨特賣點也好 , 怎麼說都行 。	some of them know what to do , and you can call it your differences , or your unique craft , or your unique tradeoffs , or your unique sales point , or whatever .
但是非常 , 非常少的人和組織明白為什麼做 。	but very , very few people and organizations understand why .
這裡的 " 為什麼 " 和 " 為利潤 " 沒有關係 ,	there's nothing to do with " why " and " profit " here .
利潤只是一個結果 , 永遠只能是一個結果 。	profits are just one result , always one result .
我說的 " 為什麼 " 指的是:你的目的是什麼 ?	and by " why " i mean: what is your purpose ?
你這樣做的原因是什麼 ? 你懷著什麼樣的信念 ?	what's the reason you do that ? what kind of beliefs do you hold ?
你的機構為什麼而存在 ?	why does your organization exist ?
你每天早上是為什麼而起床 ?	why did you get up every morning ?
為什麼別人要在乎你 ?	why should anyone care ?
結果是 , 我們思考的方式 , 行動的方式 , 交流的方式都是由外向內的 。	and it turns out that the way we think , the way we move , the way we communicate , is both extroverted .
很顯然的 , 我們所採用的方式是從清晰開始 , 然後到模糊的東西 。	clearly , what we're doing is starting with clarity , and then blurry stuff .
但是激勵型領袖以及組織機構 , 無論他們的規模大小 , 所在領域 , 他們思考 , 行動和交流的方式都是從裡向外的 。	but inspiration leaders and organizations , no matter what size they are , they think , move and communicate from the inside out .
舉個例子吧 。	let's take an example .
我舉蘋果公司是因為這個例子簡單易懂 , 每個人都能理解 。	i'll give you an apple because it's easy to understand , everybody understands it .
如果蘋果公司跟其他公司一樣 , 他們的市場營銷資訊就會是這個樣子: " 我們做最棒的電腦 ,	if apple was like any other company , this is what marketing information would look like: " we make the best computers .
設計精美 , 使用簡單 , 介面友好 。	design beautiful , using simple , interface friendly .
你想買一臺嗎 ? " 不怎麼樣吧 。	do you want to buy one ? "
這就是我們大多數人的交流方式 ,	this is how most of us communicate .
也是大多數市場推廣的方式 , 大部分銷售所採用的方式 , 也是我們大部分人互相交流的方式 。	and that's how most markets push , most sales adopt , and how most of us interact with each other .
我們說我們的職業是幹什麼的 , 我們說我們是如何的與眾不同 , 或者我們怎麼比其他人更好 , 然後我們就期待著一些別人的反應 , 比如購買 , 比如投票 , 諸如此類 。	we say what our profession does , we say how we're different or how we're better than others , and then we expect other people to respond , like purchasing , like voting , and so on .
這是我們新開的的律師事務所 , 我們擁有最棒的律師和最大的客戶 , 我們總是能滿足客戶的要求 。	this is our newly open law firm , and we have the best lawyers and the biggest customers , and we can always fulfill our clients' needs .
這是我們的新車型 , 非常省油 , 真皮座椅 。 買一輛吧 。	this is our new carshaped , very fuelefficient , dermis . buy one .
這是蘋果公司實際上的溝通方式:	this is how apple actually communicates .
" 我們做的每一件事情 , 都是為了突破和創新 。	" everything we do for breakthroughs and innovation .
我們堅信應該以不同的方式思考 。	we firmly believe that we should think differently .
我們挑戰現狀的方式是透過把我們的產品設計得十分精美 , 使用簡單 , 和介面友好 。	the way we challenge the status quo is by designing our products beautifully , using simplicity and interface friendship .
我們只是在這個過程中做出了最棒的電腦 。	we just made the best computer in the process .
想買一臺嗎 ? "	would you like to buy one ? "
感覺完全不一樣 , 對吧 ? 你已經準備從我這裡買一臺了 。	it feels completely different , right ? you're ready to buy from me .
我所做的只是將傳遞資訊的順序顛倒一下而已 。	all i did was to reverse the order of the information transmitted .
事實已經向我們證明 , 人們買的不是你做的產品 , 人們買的是你的信念和宗旨 。	as it turns out , people are not buying products that you do , people are buying your beliefs and missions .
人們買的不是你做的產品 , 人們買的是你的信念 。	people don't buy your products ; people buy your beliefs .
這就解釋了為什麼這裡的每個人從蘋果公司買電腦時都覺得理所當然 。	this explains why everyone here takes it for granted when they buy a computer from an apple .
但是我們從蘋果公司買mp3播放器 , 手機 , 或者數碼攝像機時 , 也感覺很舒服 。	but when we bought an mp3 player from an apple , a cell phone , or a digital camera , it felt very comfortable .
而其實 , 我剛才已經說過 , 蘋果公司只是個電腦公司 。	and actually , as i said earlier , apple is just a computer company .
沒有什麼能從結構上將蘋果公司同競爭對手區分開來 。	there's nothing structural that separates the apple from the competition .
競爭對手和蘋果公司有同樣的能力製造所有這些產品 。	competitors have the same capacity as apple to make all of these products .
實際上 , 他們也嘗試過 。	in fact , they tried .
幾年前 , 捷威公司推出了平板電視 。	a few years ago , the czech company introduced a flatscreen tv .
他們製造平板電視的能力很強 ,	they're very capable of making tablets .
因為他們做平板顯示器已經很多年了 。	because they've been working on a tablet display for years .
戴爾公司推出了mp3播放器和掌上電腦 , 他們產品的質量非常好 , 產品的設計也非常不錯 。 但是也沒有人買他們的這些產品 。	and darre launched an mp3 player and a palmpilot , whose product was very good , and the product was designed very well , but nobody bought them .
其實 , 說到這裡 , 我們無法想象會從戴爾公司買mp3播放器 。	actually , when it comes to this , we can't imagine buying an mp3 player from dell .
你為什麼會從一家電腦公司買mp3播放器呢 ?	why would you buy an mp3 player from a computer company ?
但是每天我們都這麼做 。	but we do it every day .
人們買的不是你做的產品 , 人們買的是你的信念 。	people don't buy your products ; people buy your beliefs .
做公司的目標不是要跟所有需要你的產品的人做生意 ,	the goal of the company is not to do business with everybody who needs your product .
而是跟與你有著相同理念的人做生意 。	it's a business with people who have the same ideas .
這是最精彩的部分 。 我說的這些沒有一個是我自己的觀點 。	that's the best part . none of those i'm talking about are my own perspective .
這些觀點都能從生物學裡面找到根源 。	all of these views can be found in biology .
不是心理學 , 是生物學 。	not psychology , but biology .
當你俯視看大腦的橫截面 , 你會發現人類大腦實際上分成三個主要部分 , 而這三個主要部分和黃金圓環匹配得非常好 。	when you look at the crossection of the brain , you can see that the human brain is actually split into three key parts , and these three main components are very good at matching the golden circle .
我們最新的腦部 , 管轄智力的腦部 , 或者說我們的大腦皮層 , 對應著 " 是什麼 " 這個圓環 。	our latest brain , the jurisdictional brain , or our cerebral cortex , corresponds to this circle .
大腦皮層負責我們所有的理性和邏輯的思考和語言功能 。	the cortex is responsible for all of our rational and logical thinking and language function .
中間的兩個部分是我們的兩個邊腦 。 邊腦負責我們所有的情感 , 比如信任和忠誠 ,	the two parts in the middle are our brains , and the brain is responsible for all of our emotions , like trust and loyalty .
也負責所有的行為和決策 , 但這部分沒有語言功能 。	it's also responsible for all behaviors and decisions , but this part doesn't have any linguistic function .
換句話說 , 當我們由外向內交流時 , 沒錯 , 人們可以理解大量的複雜資訊 , 比如特徵 , 優點 , 事實和圖表 。	in other words , when we communicate inwardly , yes , people can understand a lot of complex information , like features , strength , facts and graphs .
但不足以激發行動 。	but it's not enough to activate .
當我們由內向外交流時 , 我們是在直接同控制行為的那一部分大腦對話 , 然後我們由人們理性地思考我們所說和做的事情 。	when we're diplomacying diplomacy , we're directly controlling behavior , and then we're rationally thinking about what we're saying and doing .
這就是那些發自內心的決定的來源 。	that's where those decisions come from .
你知道 , 有時候你展示給一些人所有的資料圖表 , 他們會說 " 我知道這些資料和圖表是什麼意思 , 但就是感覺不對 。 "	you know , sometimes you show people all the data graphs , and they say , " i know what these data and graphs mean , but it just doesn't feel right . "
為什麼我們會用這個動詞 , " 感覺 " 不對 ?	why do we use that verb , " feeling " ?
因為控制決策的那一部分大腦並不支配語言 ,	because the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking doesn't govern language .
我們只好說 " 我不知道為什麼 , 就是感覺不對 。 "	we just said , " i don't know why , it just feels wrong . "
或者有些時候 , 你說聽從心的召喚 , 或者說聽從靈魂 。	or sometimes you hear the call , or you hear from the heart , or from the soul .
我不想把這些觀念分解得太徹底 , 但心和靈魂都不是控制行為的部分 。	i don't want to break these ideas down too thoroughly , but the heart and the soul are not the parts that control behavior .
所有這一切都發生在你的邊腦 , 控制決策行為而非語言的邊腦 。	all of this happens in your brain to control decisionmaking behavior rather than linguistic brains .
如果你自己都不知道你為什麼幹你所做的事情 , 而別人要對你的動機作出反應 , 那麼你怎麼可能贏得大家對你的支援 , 從你這裡購買東西 , 或者 , 更重要的 , 對你忠誠並且想成為你正在做的事情的一分子呢 ?	if you don't know why you're doing what you're doing , and people are responding to your motivations , then how can you win people's support from you , buying things from you , or , more importantly , loyal to you and wanting to be part of what you're doing ?
再說一次 , 目標不僅僅是將你有的東西賣給需要它們的人 ; 而是將東西賣給跟你有共同信念的人 。	and again , the goal is not just to sell the things you have to people who need them ; it's to sell them to people who share your beliefs .
目標不僅僅是僱傭那些需要一份工作的人 ; 目標是僱傭那些同你有共同信念的人 。	the goal is not just to employ those who need a job ; the goal is to employ those who share a common belief .
你知道嗎 , 我總是說 , 如果你僱傭某人只是因為他能做這份工作 , 他們就只是為你開的工資而工作 , 但是如果你僱傭跟你有共同信念的人 , 他們會為你付出熱血 , 汗水和淚水 。	you know , i always say , if you hire someone just because they can do this work , they're just working for you salary , but if you employ someone with you , they will pay you blood , sweat and tears .
這一點 , 沒有比懷特兄弟的故事更恰當的例子了 。	now , no more appropriate example than the white brothers' stories .
大多數人都沒聽說過塞繆爾•蘭利這個人 。	most of you have never heard of samuel lanley .
20世紀初期 , 投入機動飛行器的熱情就像當今的網站熱 ,	in the early 20th century , the passion to invest in motorized robots was like the current website .
每個人都在做嘗試 。	everybody was trying .
塞繆爾•蘭利擁有所有大家認為是成功的要素 。	samuel landley had all the elements of success .
我的意思是 , 即便是現在 , 你問別人 " 為什麼你的產品或者公司失敗了呢 ? "	i mean , even now , you ask people , " why did your product or your company fail ? "
人們總是用同樣的三個東西以同樣的排列順序來回答你 , 缺乏資金 , 用人不善 , 形勢不好 。	people are always answering you with the same three things in the same order: lack of funding , poor people , bad posture .
總是那三種理由 , 所以讓我們來逐個分析一下 。	those are the three reasons , so let's go through one analysis .
國防部給了塞繆爾•蘭利5萬美金作為研製飛行器的資金 。	the department of defense funded samuel lanlee 50 , 000 dollars as a robot .
所以說 , 資金不是問題 。	so funding is not a problem .
他在哈佛大學工作過 , 也在史密森尼學會工作過 , 人脈極其廣泛 。 他認識當時最優秀的人才 。	he worked at harvard university , and he worked at the smithsonian society , incredibly wide , and he knew the best people at the time .
因此 , 他僱傭了用資金能吸引到的最優秀的人才 。 當時的市場形勢相當有利 。	so he hired domesticated talent with the best people he could attract , which was a very good market condition .
紐約時報對他做跟蹤報道 , 每個人都支援他 。	the new york times reported to him , and everyone supported him .
但是為什麼你們連聽都沒聽說過他呢 ?	but why have you not even heard of him ?
與此同時 , 幾百公里之外的俄亥俄州代頓市有一對兄弟 , 奧維爾•萊特和維爾伯•萊特 , 他們倆沒有任何我們認為的成功的要素 。	meanwhile , hundreds of kilometers away in submitton , ohio , orville wright and virgin wright , they didn't have any elements for success .
他們沒有錢 。 他們用腳踏車店的收入來追求他們的夢想 。 萊特兄弟的團隊中沒有一個人上過大學 , 就連奧維爾和維爾伯也沒有 。 紐約時報更是不沾邊的 。	they didn't have money . they were pursuing their dreams with income in a bicycle shop , and none of the teams in the wright brothers had gone to college , even ovial and virgin , and the new york times were more impressive .
不同的是 , 奧維爾和維爾伯追求的是一個事業 , 一個目標 , 一種信念 。	what's different is that orville and velber are pursuing a career , a goal , a belief .
他們相信如果他們能研製出飛行器 , 將會改變全世界的發展程序 。	they believe that if they could build a robot , they would change the course of development worldwide .
塞繆爾•蘭利就不同了 ,	samuel landley was different .
他想要發財 , 他想要成名 。	he wanted to finance , he wanted to be famous .
他追求的是最終結果 ,	he was looking for the end result .
是變得富有 。	it's becoming rich .
看吧 , 看接下來怎麼樣了 。	see , look what happened .
那些懷有和懷特兄弟一樣夢想的人跟他們一起熱血朝天地奮鬥著 。	those who had the same dreams as the white brothers struggled with them towards the heavens .
另一邊的人則是為了工資而工作 。	on the other side , people work for salary .
後來流傳的故事說 , 每次懷特兄弟出去實驗時 , 都必須帶著五組零件 , 因為那是在他們回來吃晚飯之前將要墜毀的次數 。	and the stories that came later said that every time the white brothers went out to experiment , they had to carry five pieces , because that was the number of times they were about to crash before they came back for dinner .
最後 , 在1903年12月17日 , 懷特兄弟成功起飛 , 但是當時沒有任何其他人在場目睹 。	finally , on december 17 , 1903 , the white brothers took off , but nobody else was there .
我們是在幾天後才知道的 。	we didn't know that until a few days later .
後來的事情進一步證實了蘭利動機不純 , 他在懷特兄弟成功的當天就辭職了 。	and then something happened further confirmed that the langley motivation was innocent , and he quit his job on the day of the white brothers .
他本來應該可以說: " 夥計們 , 這真是一項偉大的發明 , 我可以改進你們的技術 。 " 但是他沒有 ,	he was supposed to be able to say , " guys , this is a great invention , and i can improve your technology . "
因為他不是第一個製造出飛機的人 , 他就不會變得富有 , 他也不會變得有名 , 所以他辭職了 。	because he wasn't the first person to make an airplane , he wouldn't be rich , and he wouldn't be famous , so he quit .
人們買的不是你的產品 ; 而是你的信念 。	people are not buying your product ; they're your beliefs .
如果你講述你的信念 , 你將吸引那些跟你擁有同樣信念的人 。	if you talk about your beliefs , you will attract people who share your beliefs .
但是為什麼吸引那些跟你擁有同樣信念的人非常重要呢 ?	but why is it so important to attract people who share the same beliefs ?
創新的傳播有一個規律 , 如果你不知道這個規律 , 你一定了解這個概念 。	there's a pattern innovation spreading , and if you don't know the pattern , you get this idea .
我們的社會中 , 有2.5%的人是革新者 。	2 . 5 percent of our society is innovators .
13.5%的人是早期的少部分採納者 。	thirty . 5 percent of people were early adopters .
接下來的34%是早期接受的大多數 , 然後是比較晚接受的大多數和最後行動的 。	the next 34 percent is early acceptance , then most and final action later .
這部分最後行動的人買按鍵電話的唯一原因是因為他們再也買不到轉盤電話了 。	the only reason these guys ended up buying a phone call is because they couldn't buy a cell phone anymore .
雖然我們在不同的時候會處在這個曲線上不同的位置 , 但是創新的傳播規律告訴我們如果你想在大眾市場上獲得成功 , 或者要大眾接納一個點子 , 你得等到獲得15%-18%的市場接受度這個轉折點之後才行 。 那時之後市場才真正開啟 。	although we're different at different times on this curve , the innovation pattern of communication tells us that if you want to succeed in massmarket success or accept an idea for the public , you have to wait until you get 15 to 18 percent of the market reception points , and that's when the market really opens .
我喜歡問公司: " 你的新生意怎麼樣呀 ? "	i like to ask companies , " what's your business ? "
他們會很自豪地告訴你 " 哦 , 大概有10%吧 。 "	they'll be proud to tell you , " oh , about 10 percent . "
是呀 , 你有可能就在10%的顧客群這裡過不去了 。	yeah , you're likely to be here in 10 percent of customers .
我們都能讓10%的人 " 意會 " ,	we can all get 10 percent of the people .
對 , 我們一般這樣形容他們 。	yeah , we typically describe them .
就好比描述那種感覺: " 哦 , 他們有點心領神會了 " 。	it's like describing that feeling , " oh , they're a little bit gutwrenched . "
問題是:你怎麼在他們還沒有成為你的顧客之前就發現那些能意會的人 , 和那些不能意會的人 ?	the question is: how did you find people who could not agree before they were your customers ?
這就是問題的所在 , 就是這點間隙 , 你得把這個間隙給填上 , 正如傑弗裡穆爾所說的 , " 跨越鴻溝 " 。 因為早期的大多數不會嘗試新事物 , 除非有些人已經先嚐試過了 。	that's the problem , and that's the point where you have to fill this gap , as jeffrey moore said , " cross the gap , " because the early majority won't try something new unless some people have tried it first .
而這些人 , 創新者和早期的少數人 , 他們喜歡大膽的嘗試 。	and these guys , the innovators and the early few , they like the bold try .
他們更自然地憑直覺做事情 , 發自於他們的世界觀的直覺 , 而不僅僅是因為市場上有什麼樣的產品 。	they naturally do things intuitively , instinctively from their worldviews , not just because of the products on the market .
這是一批在iphone上市的頭幾天去排隊等六個小時來購買的人 , 而其實只要等一個星期你就可以隨便走進店裡從貨架上買到 。	this was the first time a iphone came in line to wait six hours to buy it , and in fact , waiting for a week to go to the store and buy it from the shelves .
這是一批在平板電視剛推出時會花4萬美金買一臺的人 , 儘管當時的技術還不成熟 。	this was a batch of people who spent 40 , 000 dollars on a flatscreen television , although the technologies were not mature at the time .
補充說一下 , 他們並不是因為技術的先進而買那些產品 , 而是為了他們自己 。	in addition , they're not buying those products because of technological advancement , but for themselves .
因為他們想成為第一個體驗新產品的人 。	because they want to be the first person to experience a new product .
人們買的不是你的產品 ; 人們買的是你的信念 。 你的行動只是證明了你的信念 。	people didn't buy your product ; people bought your beliefs ; your actions proved your beliefs .
實際上 , 人們會去做能夠體現他們的信念的事情 。	in fact , people do things that embody their beliefs .
那些為了搶先在頭六個小時內買到iphone而排六個小時的隊的人 , 是出於他們的世界觀 , 出於他們想別人怎麼看自己 。 他們是第一批體驗者 。	the people who bought an iphone six hours in the first six hours were their worldviews , out of what they wanted other people to see themselves . they were the first subjects .
人們買的不是你的產品 ; 他們買的是你的信念 。	people don't buy your product ; they buy your beliefs .
我再舉些著名的例子吧 , 證實創新傳播規律的一個失敗的例子和一個成功的例子 。	let me give you some more famous examples of the failure of innovation in spreading patterns and a successful example .
首先我們講這個失敗的例子 。	let's start with this failure .
還是商業上的 。	it's a business .
就如我們一秒鐘前剛剛說過的 , 成功的要素是充足的資金 , 優秀的人才和良好的市場形勢 。 那麼 , 是不是如果有這些你就應該獲得成功 。	as we said just a second ago , the element of success is financial , great talent and good markets . so , if you have those , you should be successful .
自從推出蒂沃機頂盒以來 , 大概是八、九年前 , 直到今天 , 它們一直是市場上唯一的最高品質的產品 , 這沒有任何異議 。	it's been about eight or nine years ago since the roofbox launched , until today , they've been the only highest quality product on the market , and there's no difference .
它們絕對是資金充足 ,	they're absolutely sufficient .
市場形勢也大好 。	markets are great .
其實 , " 蒂沃 " 都變成了一個日常用的動詞 。	in fact , " tive " became a daily verb .
比如:我經常把東西蒂沃到我那臺華納數碼影片錄影機裡面 。	for instance , i often get things tiwalwood in my warner digital video camera .
但是蒂沃是個商業上的失敗案例 ,	but tivel was a failure in business .
他們沒有賺到一分錢 。	they didn't make a penny .
他們上市時 , 股票價格大約在30到40美元 , 然後就直線下跌 , 而成交價格從沒超過10美元 。	when they came out , the price of the stock was between 30 and 40 dollars , and then it went straight down , and the cost was never over 10 dollars .
實際上 , 我印象中它的交易價格從來沒有超過6美元 , 除了幾次小的震盪之外 。	in fact , i remember its price for trade was never over six dollars , except a few tiny concussions .
因為你會發現 , 蒂沃公司新推出他們的產品時 , 他們只是告訴我們他們產品是什麼 ,	because you'll notice that when tiwo launched their product , they just told us what their product was .
他們說 " 我們的產品可以把電視節目暫停 , 跳過廣告 , 回放電視節目 , 還能記住你的觀看習慣 , 你甚至都不用刻意設定它 。 "	they said , " our products can pause the television program , skip ads , release television programs , and remember your habits , and you don't even have to set it intentionally . "
挑剔的人們說: " 我們不相信你 ,	critical people say , " we don't trust you .
我們不需要這樣的東西 , 我們也不喜歡這樣的東西 。	we don't need something like this , and we don't like that either .
你在唬人 。 "	you're bluffing people . "
假如他們這麼說: " 如果你想掌控生活的方方面面 , 朋友 , 那麼就試試我們的產品吧 。	if they say , " if you want to take control of the aspects of life , friends , try our product .
它可以暫停直播節目 , 跳過廣告 , 回放直播節目 , 還能記下你的觀看習慣 , 等等 。	it pauses livestreaming , skips advertising , releases livestreaming , and remembers your watching habits , etc .
人們買的不是你的產品 ; 人們買的是你的信念 。 你所做的僅僅只是你的信念的證明而已 。	people don't buy your product ; people buy your beliefs .
下面我給大家介紹一個成功的例子 。	i'm going to show you a successful example .
1963年的夏天 , 25萬人聚集在華盛頓特區聆聽馬丁•路德•金博士的演講 。	in the summer of 1963 , 250 , 000 people gathered in washington , d . c . to listen to dr . martin luther king speak .
那時 , 既沒有發請帖 , 也沒有可能在網上檢視日期 。	there was no review , no possibility of looking at the date online .
怎麼會有25萬人參加呢 ?	how do you get 250 , 000 people involved ?
而且 , 金博士不是美國唯一的偉大演說家 ,	and dr . king wasn't the only great american orator .
也不是美國唯一一位在民權法案實施前遭受歧視的人 。	it's not the only person in the united states who suffered discrimination before the civil rights act .
實際上 , 他的一些想法甚至不正確 。	in fact , some of his ideas weren't even right .
但是他有個天賦 。	but he had a gift .
他沒有到處宣揚美國需要改變什麼方面 ,	he didn't go around saying what the united states needed to change .
他只是到處告訴別人他所相信的 。	he was just telling people what he believed .
" 我相信 。 我相信 。 我相信 。 " 他總是這麼跟別人說 。	" i believe . i believe . " he said to people all the time .
而那些和他懷有同樣信念的人受了他的啟發 , 他們也開始將自己的信念告訴別人 。	and he was inspired by those who had the same beliefs , and they began to tell people about their beliefs .
有些人建立起一些組織機構將這些話傳給更多的人 。	there are people who are building organizations that are sending these to more people .
你看 , 就這樣 , 25萬人在那天 , 那個時候 , 聚集在一起聽他演講 。	you see , 250 , 000 people were there that day , when he got together and heard him speak .
有多少人是為了聽 " 他 " 演說而去的呢 ?	how many people did it for " he " ?
他們是為了他們自己而去的 。	they were there for themselves .
那是他們對於美國的信念支援著他們坐8個小時的公車 , 站在華盛頓八月中旬的烈日下 。	it was their faith in the united states supporting them by sitting eight hours on the bus day of washington in the middle of august .
是他們所相信的信念 , 而不是黑人跟白人之間的鬥爭 。 25%的聽眾是白人 。	it's the belief that they believe , not the struggle between black and white , 25 percent of the audience is white .
金博士相信世界上有兩種律法 , 一種是上天制定的 , 一種是世人制定的 。	dr . king believed there were two laws in the world , one that were made up in the world , one that was made up of the world .
直到世人制定的法律和上天制定的律法相符合 , 我們才真正生活在公正的世界裡 。	it wasn't until the laws that made up of the world meet the laws that made up of the day that we really live in a world of justice .
民權運動只是碰巧幫他將信念付諸於現實的一件事情 。	the civil rights movement just happened to help him fix his beliefs on reality .
我們跟隨他 , 不是為了他 , 而是為了我們自己 。	we followed him , not for him , but for ourselves .
順便說一下 , 他的演講是 " 我有一個夢想 " , 而不是 " 我有一個方案 " 。	by the way , his talk is " i have a dream " speech , not " i have a solution . "
聽聽現在的政治家們提出的12點的大雜燴計劃 ,	listen to the 12point politicians that are proposing .
沒一點勁 。	nothing .
一些人是當官的 , 而另一些人是領袖 。	some people are official , and others are leaders .
當官的只是佔據在有權力和威嚴的位置上 , 但是隻有具有領袖素質的人才能激勵我們 。	they are occupying the position of power and strictness , but a person with leadership quality can inspire us .
無論他們是個人還是組織 , 我們都追隨領袖 , 不是因為我們必須這樣做 , 而是因為我們願意 。	whether they're individuals or organizations , we follow leaders , not because we have to do it , but because we want to .
我們跟隨具有領袖能力的人 , 不是為他們 , 而是為我們自己 。	we follow people with leadership , not for them , but for ourselves .
也只有那些從 " 為什麼 " 這個圓圈出發的人才有能力激勵周圍的人 , 或者找到能夠激勵他們的人 。	it's the people who come from the " why " circle who have the ability to motivate surroundings , or find the people who can motivate them .
你是如何回憶起將車停在了什麼地方呢 ? 你怎麼判斷自己是否走對了方向呢 ? 神經系統科學家尼爾•伯吉斯研究了神經系統的定位功能原理 , 以及該原理與記憶和想象的關係 。	how did you recall where you parked your car , and how did you judge whether you were in the right direction , the neuroscientist neil bergius studied the functionality of the nervous system and the relationship between the principle and the memory and the imagination ?
brain , cognitivescience , exploration , neuroscience , science	this is cognitivescience .
尼爾•伯吉斯:大腦是怎樣幫我們定位的	nels boggius: how does the brain work for us ?
當我們在大型停車場停車後 , 如何回憶起將車停在了哪個車位呢 ?	how do we recall where we parked our car after a large parking lot ?
這就是現在困擾荷馬的問題 。	that's the problem with homer .
接下來我們將嘗試瞭解此時他腦中正開展何種 " 運動 " 。	and then we're going to try to figure out what kind of exercise is going on in his head right now .
我們先著眼於大腦海馬區 , 即黃色的區域這是我們的記憶器官 。	we started by looking at the hippocampus , the yellow area this is our memory organ .
如果海馬區出現損傷 , 像老年痴呆症患者一樣 , 你將喪失記憶力 , 乃至記不起將車停在了何處 。	if there's a damage to the hippocampus , like an alzheimer's patient , you can't remember where the car is going .
hippocampus這個詞源自拉丁語 , 有 " 海馬 " 之意因為腦中海馬區的形狀看上去有點像 " 海馬 " 。	the hippocampus comes from latin , which means " hippocampus " because the shape of the hippocampus looks a little bit like " hippocampus . "
海馬區和大腦其它區域的組成相似 , 都由神經元構成 。	the hippocampus is similar to the rest of the brain , made of neurons .
人的大腦由大約一千億個神經元細胞組成 。	the human brain is made up of about 100 billion neurons .
每個神經元細胞之間透過一些連線中介互相傳送小的電脈衝或者尖峰電壓來進行 " 交流 " 。	each of these neurons communicates through some of the connections between these neurons , or peak communication .
海馬區由兩層片狀的細胞群構成 , 這兩層細胞群緊密相連 。	the hippocampus is made up of two layers of cells that are intimately connected .
科學家們透過記錄老鼠在某環境中搜羅食物時其腦中單個神經元細胞的反應來了解 " 空間記憶 " 的工作原理與工作機制 。	scientists understand the response to spatial memory and the work mechanisms of spatial memory in a given environment .
現在想象一下 , 我們正在為這隻老鼠的海馬區中的一個神經元細胞 " 錄影 " 。	now imagine that we're recording a neuron in the hippocampus of this mouse .
每當這個細胞發出小型尖峰電壓 , 隨後會出現一個紅點以及咔噠的一聲 。	every time this cell sends a small peak peak pressure , there's a red dot and a click sound .
我們可以看出每當老鼠進入環境中某一特定位置 , 這個神經元細胞便會有反應 。	we can see that every time a mouse enters a certain location in the environment , this neuron will respond .
然後這個細胞再透過小型尖峰電壓將以上資訊傳遞給大腦的其它區域 。	and this cell then sends information to other parts of the brain through a small peak .
這麼一來 , 我們可以憑藉這個細胞傳送訊號的頻率推知老鼠經過的相應位置 。	in this way , we can tell where the rat goes by by by by the frequency of the cell .
倘若我們記錄的是很多不同的神經元細胞 , 就會發現當老鼠處於不同的位置上時 , 不同的神經元細胞會產生各自的電訊號 , 正如我們在這些方形中看到的那樣 。	if we document a lot of different neurons , we find that different neurons produce their own electrical signals as we see them in different locations .
這些訊號為大腦中的其它區域勾勒出一張地圖 , 持續地向大腦指示出 , " 我現在位於環境中的哪個具體點上 ? "	these signals are mapped in other parts of the brain , constantly instructing to the brain , " what specific point am i in the environment right now ? "
我們也記錄人腦中的 " 定位神經元細胞 " 。	we also document " location neurons " in the human brain .
癲癇病患者有時需要監測他們的腦電活動情況 。	patients with epilepsy sometimes need to monitor their brain electrical activity .
一些患者玩一種電子遊戲 , 遊戲中他們在一個小鎮上自由開車 。	some patients played a video game where they were free to drive in a small town .
然後當他們驅車駛過鎮上的某一處時 , 他們大腦海馬區中的 " 定位神經元細胞 " 便會被啟用 , 發出訊號 。	and then when they're driving somewhere in town , their location neuron in the hippocampus will be inspired , sending out signals .
那麼這 " 定位細胞 " 是怎麼知道老鼠或人處於某個位置的呢 ?	so how does this position cell know that mice or people are somewhere ?
這裡有兩個神經元細胞 , 它們告訴我們 , 在定位時環境的邊界是至關重要的 。	here are two neurons , and they tell us that the boundaries in a positioning environment are essential .
上面的這個細胞傾向於在老鼠向盒子中部走去時產生訊號 。	this cell up there tends to produce a signal as it travels in the middle of the box .
因此當你將盒子擴大 , 相應的訊號活躍區也隨之擴大 。	so when you expand the box , the signal activity zone expands .
下面的這個喜歡在老鼠緊鄰南面屏障時作出反應 。	this one underneath the mouse responds to a southern barrier .
因此當你在盒中放入另一屏障時 , 不論老鼠在盒中何處 , 只要它的南面有屏障 , 該細胞中的相應位置便會同時產生訊號 。	so when you put another barrier in the box , wherever the mouse is in the box , if it has a screen in the south , the correspondence in that cell will be produced at the same time .
這表明瞭解到達邊界比如周邊的建築物等需要的距離和方向對於海馬區的 " 工作 " 而言至關重要 。	it's indicating that the distance and direction that's necessary to reach the border of buildings like the one around the hippocampus is essential .
而且確實 , 在老鼠蒐羅環境時 , 我們在海馬區的輸入訊號中 , 檢測到能對距環境邊界的特定距離與方向作出精確感應的神經元細胞 。	and indeed , in mice , when it comes to inputs in the hippocampus , we detect specific distances and directions that respond to precisely sensing neurons from the border of the environment .
這裡左邊的細胞 , 你可以看出 , 當老鼠向東靠近邊界或屏障時 , 該細胞都會作出反應 , 不論這邊界是一個方盒的邊還是一個圓柱盒的邊甚至是老鼠繞著轉的桌布的垂簾 。	the cell on the left here , as you can tell , is responding when the mouse approaches the east border or the barrier , whether it's a box or a column box or even a rotating tablecloth .
而右面的細胞則是在老鼠南面出現邊界時響應 , 不論這邊界是桌布的垂簾還是一堵牆甚至是兩個被隔開的桌子之間的間隙 。	and the cells on the right respond when the border appears on the south side of the mouse , whether it's the tablecloth curtain or the wall between two separated tables .
以上是我們所推測的一種 " 定位細胞 " 給動物定位的方式 。	so this is a way that we speculate about positioning cells for animals .
我們也可檢測 , 人類在簡單環境中 , 是怎樣給諸如這面旗這樣的物體定位的或者乾脆把這物體想成你的車 。	we can also detect how humans , in simple environments , position objects like this or just think of this object as your car .
我們先讓人們熟悉一下環境 , 同時記下物體所在的位置 。	let's get people familiar with the environment and remember where the objects are .
接著 , 再讓他們回到那個環境 , 通常他們都能根據記憶準確無誤地標出物體所在的位置 。	and then they return to that environment , and usually they're able to tag objects based on memory accurately where they are .
但在一些試驗中 , 我們會改變環境的形狀和尺度 , 正如我們在 " 定位細胞 " 實驗中所做的那樣 。	but in some trials , we change the shape and the scale of the environment , just like we did in the targeted cell experiment .
如此 , 我們可以透過研究實驗者改變環境的形狀和尺度 , 來了解旗幟發生了怎樣的位移	in this way , we can change the shape and scale of the environment by studying the experimenter to understand where the flag was shifting .
比如現在你所看到的 , 假設這面旗幟在如圖中小四方形內的 " × " 的位置 , 然後接著你問人們小旗在哪 , 但實際上你已經將總環境的尺度擴大了 , 結果他們所認為的旗所在的位置也相應地向外擴張 , 而這擴張的模式和 " 定位細胞 " 的一模一樣 。	what you're seeing now , if this flag is expanding in the location of the xx , as you see in the tiny square , and then you ask people where the flag is , but you actually scale up the scale of the environment , and it turns out that the flag is expanding in exactly the same way as the pattern of the position cell .
這就好像你是透過儲存被某一特定位置所激發的 " 定位細胞 " 產生的訊號模式來記憶小旗的位置的 , 接著當你回到那個地點的時候 , 透過四處打量 , 便可以將你當前腦中 " 定位細胞 " 的訊號模式與之前的模式進行匹配 。	it's as if you're storing the signal patterns that are fired by a specific location cell in a specific place to match the location of the flag , and then when you go back to that location , you can match the patterns of your brain with your previously patterned .
這個過程便可讓你回到 " 老地方 " 。	this process lets you go back to the old place .
我們也能透過位移來給自己定位 。	we can also give ourselves locations through our positions .
因此當我們外出時或許是我們停車後下來隨便走走我們可以給自己定位 , 因為我們可以粗略地將自己的運動路線與大體的返回方向進行整合 。	so when we're out , maybe when we park and we walk around , we can position ourselves , because we can integrate our own sports routes with our bodies back in the direction .
" 定位細胞 " 也能從一種叫做 " 網狀細胞 " 的細胞那兒獲得此類線路整合的資訊 。	position cells can also be integrated into information from a cell called net cells .
目前在向海馬區的訊號輸入中又發現了 " 網狀細胞 " , 它們與 " 定位細胞 " 有點類似 。	and what's currently discovered in the hippocampus is that net cells are a little bit like position cells .
隨著老鼠的 " 四處探索 " , 每一個神經元細胞被大量各種位置所激發的訊號組合在一起 , 貫穿整個環境構成一個令人驚歎的規整的三角網格 。	with mice , each neuron is assembled by massive amounts of positions , and throughout the environment , it's a remarkable triangle grid .
倘若你對一系列 " 網狀細胞 " 進行記錄這裡以不同的顏色區分每一個細胞發出的訊號都能形成網狀 , 遍及整個環境 , 而且每一個細胞的網狀訊號集的位置都與其他細胞有一定偏差 。	if you document a series of mesh cells in different colors , each cell's signal can form a mesh , all the way throughout the environment , and each cell's mesh is in some way delayed from the other cells .
因此紅色標註的細胞訊號集合在這個網格上 , 綠色的是這個 , 而藍色的是這個 。	so the signals that are shown in red are gathered on this grid , and green are this , and blue are this one .
因此綜合來看 , 這就好像老鼠可以在它所到達的環境中建立一個虛擬的位置訊號網這就有點像你在地圖上所看到的經線和緯線 , 只不過要將線替換成 " 三角形 " 。	so in synthesis , it's like a mice can create a virtual location network in its environment , which is kind of like the lines and latitudes that you see on the map , except instead of replacing the line with triangles .
當老鼠移動的時候 , 這些電訊號能透過這些細胞傳遞給下一個神經元細胞從而為老鼠定位 , 這樣老鼠就能在運動時知道自己身在何處 。	when the mouse is moving , these electrical signals can be delivered to the next neuron from these cells so that the mouse can know where they are in the motion .
那麼人類是否有 " 網狀細胞 " 呢 ?	so does humans have the mesh cells ?
因為所有的網狀訊號集合體都有相同的對稱軸 , 以及相同的網格朝向 , 這裡以橘紅色標識 , 這就意味著大腦中特定部位的所有網狀細胞的聯網行為的變化應該取決於我們是在向著這六個方向運動還是沿著六個方向之間所夾的某一個方向運動 。	because all the signals collectively have the same axes of symmetry and the same grid dynamics , and in this orange red identity , this means that the change in all the mesh cells in the brain depends on whether we're moving towards those six directions or whether we're moving in one direction between six directions .
我們可以為人們做核磁共振掃描 , 與此同時讓他們玩一個小型電子遊戲 , 還是之前所說的那個遊戲 , 然後來看看當時的訊號 。	we can do mri scans for people , and let them play a little video game , or that game , as i said before , and let's look at the signal .
啊哈沒錯 , 你在人腦中的內嗅皮層上看到了網狀細胞 , 而它們出現的位置和老鼠的網狀細胞在大腦中所出現的位置一樣 。	ahha is right , you see the net cells on the inside of the human brain , and they're just as positioned as the mesh cells of the mouse are in the brain .
現在我們回頭看看荷馬 。	now let's go back to homer .
他可能憑藉與周邊建築以及四周邊界的相對距離和方向來回憶他的車停在哪兒 。	he could recall where his car parked by relative distances and directions with surrounding buildings and surrounding them .
而那將由專門 " 檢測邊界 " 的神經元細胞發出的訊號來執行 。	and that will execute the signals from the neurons that specialize at the border .
他可能也記得自己是怎麼從停車場走出來的 , 而這就有賴於網狀細胞發出訊號了 。	and he probably remembers how he came out of the parking lot , and it relies online cells sending signals .
這兩種型別的神經元細胞都可以啟用 " 定位細胞 " 。	these two different types of neurons can be activated as " positioned cells . "
因此荷馬成功折返的方法便是在走動中尋求與他之前停車時腦中所建立的訊號集樣式最為匹配的一個腦中即時形成的訊號集樣式 。	and so the way homer's successful folding return works is by walking around seeking signals that were built in his previous parking brain , matching one of the most immediate brain signals that were formed in real time .
而那就能將他領回 " 老地方 " 了 , 這個過程與最終的目標視物無關不論他的車是否還在那兒他都能找到停車點 。	and that brings him back to the old place , which is not about the final target , whether he's still there or not , he can find the parking spot .
或許車已經被拖走了 ,	maybe the car has been dragged away .
但他仍然知道車原來停在哪 , 因此他會回到原位去取車 。	but he still knows where the car parked , so he goes back to where it was .
撇開 " 空間記憶力 " 而言 , 倘若我們單獨觀察這種網狀訊號集在整個大腦中的活動情況 , 就會發現這種訊號形式分佈廣泛 , 每當我們需要回憶一些自己過去的經歷時這種網狀的訊號形式就會活躍起來 , 譬如 , 當你試圖回憶上次參加婚禮的情況時	and aside from spatial memory , if we alone observe this signal gathering throughout the brain , this signal distributes widely distributed , every time we need to recall some of our experiences , this mesh form activates , like when you're trying to recall the previous wedding .
因此有可能 , 神經元細胞再現空間的功能也參與視覺畫面的呈現這樣當我們試圖回憶一個曾經置身其中的場面時 , 至少可以藉助想象而勾勒出整個場景 。	so it's possible that neurons reconstruct the function of space and participate in the visual appearance so that when we're trying to recall a scene that was once there , we can at least check the whole picture by imagining it .
倘若事實果真如此 , 記憶的形成就開始於: " 定位細胞 " 透過這些縝密的連結相互啟用然後 " 邊界感應細胞 " 被再次啟用從而形成我們視點周圍的場景的空間格局 。	and if that's true , the memory formation begins: " position cells " activate each other through these very carefully interconnected connections , and " border sensing cells " become reintroduced to the spatial grid that we see around us .
網狀細胞可以使視點穿透那個空間 。	the mesh cells can make their perspective through that space .
而另一種 " 方位細胞 " , 我之前沒有提到它 , 它們像指南針一樣 , 都是根據你的朝向來作出反應的 。	and the other digital cell , which i didn't mention earlier , they respond like a compass based on where you're headed .
它們可以明確你需要在腦中形成哪個方位的影象 , 就拿回憶婚禮情景來說 , 以上過程就能讓你回想起那一切 。	they can specifically image where you need to form in your head , take back the wedding scenario , and remind you of all that .
好了 , 以上就是在認知神經科學領域所開闢的新紀元 , 在這個領域中 , 我們開始嘗試從大腦中數以億計的單個神經元細胞的行為出發 , 來了解人類心理活動產生的過程 。 比如人們是如何記憶、想象甚至思考的	all right , so that's the new era in the cognitive neuroscience field , where we're starting to start from the behavior of hundreds of millions of individual neurons in the brain to understand how human psychological activity is produced , how people remember , think and even think .
謝謝各位 。	thank you .
想象一個由合作多部門 , 多政府 , 公私力量組成的全球安全 。 這不僅是開放安全支持者的幻想 , 而是jamesstavridis , 北約最高長官的設想 , 他從分享了從現代軍事史的生動瞬間到解釋了為什麼要靠修橋而不是修牆來構築未來安全 。	imagine a global security made by cooperation , multiple governments , publicprivate forces , which is not just the illusion of opensource supporters but the imagination of james staviss , the highest officer in northern journey , who , from the sharing of the dynamics of modern military history , explains why we need to build the future security instead of fixing the wall .
collaboration , globalissues , open-source , peace , politics , socialmedia , violence , war	collaboration , worldwide issues , opensource , peace , politics , islamedia , violence , warrior .
jamesstavridis:北約的最高長官如何看待全球安全	james stavildis: northern commissioner , how to look at global security .
我將要介紹一些開放式安全性問題 , 因為我們在21世紀已經離安全越來越近了 。	i'm going to show you some opensource security issues , because we're getting closer and closer to safety in the 21st century .
我們先回顧一下20世紀吧 , 然後我們就能瞭解安全這個概念是如何為我們而工作 。	let's go back to the 20th century , and then we can understand how this idea of security works for us .
這裡是verdun , 一個法國的戰場 , 就在北約在比利時總部的北邊 。	this is verdun , a battlefield in france just north of the headquarters in belgium .
1916年 , 在verdun這個戰場上 , 700000人在300天內被殺了 , 那就是差不多2000人一天 。	in 1916 , on verdun , in a battlefield , 7 , 000 people were killed in 300 days , almost 2 , 000 people a day .
咱們繼續往前看--20世紀的安全--看到二戰 , 我們看得到在斯大林格勒保衛戰 , 300天內有二百萬人戰死 。	let's move forward the 20thcentury security see world war ii , we can see the war in stalin gregler , 300 days after two million people died .
進入冷戰 , 我們繼續建造圍牆 。	we went into the cold war , and we continued to build walls .
我們從一戰的壕溝 , 到二戰的馬其頓防線 , 再到冷戰中的鐵幕 , 柏林牆 。	we went from the trenches of world war ii to the macedonian defense , to the iron curtains of the cold war , the berlin wall .
所以我今天的主題是為了完成 " 安全 " 這個目標 , 我們不建造牆 , 而建造橋 。	so my thesis today is to achieve safety , we don't build walls and we build bridges .
在歐洲有一個很著名的橋 。	there's a famous bridge in europe .
它在drina河上 , 是作家ivoandric的一個小說的主題 , 這部小說講述了如何在歐洲和巴爾幹地區最動盪的部分大量的牆被築起 。	it's on the drina river , a novel by the author iivo andric , and it describes the most turbulent part of the wall in europe and the balkans .
而最近 , 也就是在近十年 , 我們開始看到這些地區開始 , 儘管有些猶豫不決 , 逐漸融合在一起 。	and recently , in the last 10 years , we're starting to see these regions start , despite being hesitant and increasingly mixing together .
我想再次重申 , 開放式安全是關於聯絡國際的不同地區的 , 跨部門的 , 私人的和公共的 , 並且把它們透過戰略性溝通 , 在社交網上聯絡在一起 。	i want to reclaim that opensource security is about connecting international , interagency , private and public , and connecting them through strategic communication to social networks .
所以 , 接下來我將說一些為什麼我們需要那麼做 , 因為我們的共同目標正在受到威脅 , 而且是多方面的 , 同時沒有一種威脅能被透過築牆隔離解決 。	so i'm going to talk a little bit about why we need to do that , because our common goals are being threatened , and they're multiple ways , and they don't have a threat to be resolved through wall
現在 , 很明顯我是一個水手 。	now , obviously i'm a sailor .
有一個船在印度洋上航行 。	there's a boat sailing on the indian ocean .
這個照片有什麼問題嗎 ?	what's wrong with this picture ?
在這個船上有蛇網環繞 。	there's a snake nets on this boat .
這是用來抵禦海盜的 。	this is used to defend pirates .
海盜現在是一個非常主要的全球威脅 。 這是隻是在印度洋 。	pirates are now a very primary global threat . this is an indian ocean .
海盜依然在馬六甲海峽很猖狂 ,	pirates are still rampant in the channels of mankind .
也在幾內亞灣 ,	it's in the gulf of guinea .
在加勒比海地區 。	it's in the caribbean .
它在全球交通運輸中每年造成了一百億美元的損失 。	it costs about 10 billion dollars a year to lose global transport .
在去年的此刻 , 有20艘船 , 500名船員被綁架為人質 。	at this point last year , 20 boats , 500 crew abducted into hostage .
這是一個對全球共同利益的威脅 。	it's a threat to global commons .
我們需要想出解決辦法 。	we need to come up with solutions .
現在讓我們轉到另一種海洋 , 網路的海洋 。	now let's move to another ocean , the internet's ocean .
這裡有兩個年輕人的照片 。	here's a picture of two young people .
在此刻 , 他們被監禁著 。	at this point , they're incarcerated .
他們做了一個信用卡詐騙案 , 並且牟利超過一百億美元 。	they made a credit card fraud for over 10 billion dollars .
這只是對全球經濟造成兩萬億美元損失的網路犯罪的一部分 。	this is part of cybercrime that costs 20 trillion dollars to the global economy .
兩萬億每年 。	two trillion dollars a year .
這僅低於英國的國民生產總值.	that's less than the gdp of the united kingdom .
所以網路世界 , 一個我們深知是由最根本的開放組成的地方 , 正在受到威脅 。	so the internet world , a place that we know is threatened by the most fundamental openness .
另一個我要擔心的是由於物流造成的威脅 , 也就是麻醉劑 , 鴉片等毒品從阿富汗穿過歐洲到達美國的整個一條運輸線 。	another thing i worry about is the threat caused by logistics , which is called anesthetics , opioids , which goes from afghanistan to europe to the united states .
我們擔心從andeanridge北部運過來的可卡因 。	we worry about cocaine coming from the andean ridge north .
我們擔心非法武器的運輸 。 但最重要的是 , 我們擔心人力的運輸 , 以及它的成本 。	we worry about illegal weapons transport , but most importantly , we worry about human transport and its cost .
大多數運輸是透過海洋的但也透過我們的共同利益 。	most of it is through the ocean , but through our common interests .
這是一張照片 , 透過它我想告訴你這是一個非常高科技的美國海軍武器用來阻止物流的發生 。	this is a photograph , and i'd like to tell you it's a very hightech navy weapon to stop logistics .
但壞訊息是 , 這是一個販毒組織的半潛水的裝置 。	but the bad news is , it's a semisubsory device that vends tissue .
它在南美熱帶雨林中被建造 ,	it was built in the rainforests of south america .
我們透過沒有科技含量的筏子逮捕了它 , 而它正裝載著六噸的可卡因 ,	we've arrested it with no technology raft , and it's carrying six tons of cocaine .
四個船員 , 精良的裝置 。	four crews , delicate installations .
這種運送麻醉劑 , 人和武器上帝禁止的 , 大規模殺傷性武器就是我們共同利益的威脅的一部分 。	this shipping anesthetic , human and weapons banned , and mass destruction is part of the threat of our collective interest .
現在讓我們完整的看一下阿富汗的今天 。	now let's take a full look at afghanistan today .
在阿富汗有一片罌粟花的 ,	there's a poppy in afghanistan .
全世界80%到90%的罌粟花 , 鴉片和海洛因來自阿富汗 。	eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppies , opium and heroin from afghanistan .
當然 , 我們也看到了恐怖組織 。	of course , we also saw terrorist organizations .
這就是基地組織建立的地方 。	this is where alqaeda is built .
我們看到了這裡有一個很不穩定的局勢 。	we see a very unstable situation here .
所以恐怖組織也是我們面臨的威脅的一部分 , 也是我們必須解決的 。	so terrorism is also part of our threat , and it's something we have to solve .
所以 , 在21世紀 ,	so , in the 21st century .
我們知道我們20世紀的方法不管用 。	we know that our 20thcentury method doesn't work .
我們該怎麼辦 ?	what do we do ?
我想說我們不能僅僅透過槍支來保障安全 。	i want to say that we cannot protect security just by guns .
我們不能僅僅依靠槍支 ,	we can't just rely on guns .
我們需要軍事力量的綜合應用 。	we need the application of military power .
當我們使用時 , 我們就必須使用好 。	when we're using it , we have to use it .
但我所要說的是 , 開放式安全是關於國際的 , 跨部門的 , 私人和公共的聯絡 , 透過網際網路溝通而建立的 。	but all i'm saying is that opensource security is about international , interagency , private and public contact , and it's created through the internet .
讓我講一個例子 。	let me give you an example .
我們有阿富汗 , 有阿富汗計程車兵 ,	we have afghanistan . we have afghan taxi .
他們都拿著書 。	they're all holding books .
你可能會說 " 這真奇怪 , 我想我曾讀到過在這個地區絕大多數20 , 30多歲的年輕人都是不識字的 。 "	you might say , " that's strange , i think i've read that most young people in this area in their 20s and 30s are illiterate . "
你也許是對的 。	you might be right .
當他們進入安全部隊的時候 , 85%是不識字的 。	when they enter the security forces , 85 percent of them are illiterate .
為什麼 ? 因為塔利班在這些人該學習的時候不提供教育 。	why ? because the taliban are not providing education when these people are supposed to learn .
所以問題是 , 為什麼他們手裡拿著書站在那裡 ?	so the question is , why are they holding books in their hands ?
答案是 , 我們在叫他們閱讀 , 透過北約組織的課程 , 透過和私人組織的合作 , 透過和發展署的合作 。	and the answer is , we're asking them to read through the northern organization program , through collaboration with private organizations , through collaboration with development agencies .
我們已經教了超過200000的阿富汗安全部隊士兵來進行最基本的讀寫 。	we've taught more than 2 , 000 afghan security forces to read and write at the most basic level .
當你能讀和寫的時候 , 你就會在你的口袋裡放一支筆 。	when you can read and write , you put a pen in your pocket .
在畢業典禮上 , 當這些人畢業時 , 他們很驕傲的拿出筆 , 並放在他們的口袋裡 。	at the ceremony , when these people graduated , they were proud to take the pen and put it in their pocket .
這個舉動把全世界有五十個國家跨部門的力量私人和公共資源都聯絡到了一起 , 來進行這種安全的建立 。	this has connected the power of 50 countries all over the world to private and public resources to do this kind of security .
現在 , 我們當然也教他們格鬥技巧 , 但我想說 , 開放式安全意味著為創造更持久的安全而聯絡各個力量 。	now , we also teach them fighting techniques , but i want to say that opensource security means connecting with forces to create longer lasting security .
這是一個美國海軍戰艦 。	this is a us navy warship .
叫做comfort號 。	it's called the comfort .
他有一個姊妹艦 , 叫做mercy號 。	he had a sistership called the mercy .
他們是友好的戰艦 。	they're friendly battleships .
安慰號在加勒比海和南美洲的海岸進行病人的治療 。	the comfort in the caribbean and the coast of south america conducted patient treatment .
通常 , 他會進行400000個治療 ,	typically , he ran 4 , 000 treatments .
船員不是嚴格的部隊人員 , 而是很多人道主義組織 , 比如 " 希望專案 " , " 微笑工程 " 。	crew was not a strict military , but a lot of people said , " hope project , " " " smile engineering . "
其他組織送來志願者 。	other organizations send volunteers .
其他部門的醫生也來了 。	so doctors from other sectors have come .
他們都是這個專案的一部分 。	they're all part of this project .
舉個例子來說明這個專案的影響力 , 這個小孩 , 8歲 , 和他的媽媽走了兩天來到安慰號上的眼科診所 。	to give you an example of the impact of this project , this kid , eight years old , walked with his mother for two days to come to eye clinic on comfort .
當他被治好他的重度近視是 , 他突然抬頭 , 然後說: " mama , veoelmundo. "	when he was healed , he looked up , and he said , " mama , veo elmundo . "
" 媽媽 , 我看到世界了 。 "	" mom , i see the world . "
把這個乘以400000 , 也就是治療數目 , 這個私人和公共的合作 , 同時融合了安全力量的專案 , 開始顯現它的力量 , 來以一個很不同的方式創造安全 。	multiply this by 400 , 000 , which is the number of treatments , this private and public collaboration that integrates the power of security and begins to show its power to create security in a very different way .
這張照片是棒球運動員 。	this is a baseball player .
你能在其中找出兩名美國部隊計程車兵嗎 ?	can you find two american taxi military taxi military in between ?
他們是每側最邊上的兩位 。 這是棒球診所的一部分 , 在這裡我們嘗試棒球聯賽 , 國務院 , 在軍隊中的棒球運動員 , 也就是那些能真正上戰場的人 , 之間的合作 , 並且他們把這種診所開到了拉丁美洲和加勒比地區 , 開到了宏都拉斯 , 開到了尼加拉瓜 , 開到了所有中美洲和加勒比的棒球很流行國家 , 而且它創造了安全感 。	they're the two people on each side . this is part of a baseball clinic , where we tried baseball leagues , state department , baseball players in the military , who actually went to war , collaborated with each other , and they opened this clinic to latin america and the caribbean , to honduras , to open nicaragua , to all the central american and caribbean baseball country pandemic , to create a sense of security .
他為年輕人建立了關於健身和生活的榜樣 , 而且我想說這些理念幫助創造了安全 。	he built role models for young people , and i would say these ideas helped create security .
這個合作的另一部分是災後救援與後續工作 。	another part of this collaboration is after disaster rescue and subsequent work .
這是一個美國空軍的直升機 , 它參加了2004年一個殺死250000人的海嘯的救援 。	this is a u . s . air force helicopter participating in a tsunami rescue that killed 25 , 000 people in 2004 .
在所有的大災難中2004年海嘯 , 250000死 , 2005年巴基斯坦地震 , 85000人死亡 , 海地地震 , 300000人死亡 , 還有最近的對於日本機器核工業的地震海嘯雙重打擊在所有這些例子中 , 我們看到了國際間 , 跨部門 , 公私結合的合作 , 這個合作與安全力量同時響應這種自然災害 。	tsunami in 2004 , 25 , 000 dead , the crossborder earthquake in pakistan in 2005 , 85 , 000 dead , the haitian earthquake , 3 , 000 dead , and more recently , to the earthquake of the japanese nuclear industry , in all of these examples , we've seen international , interagency , privatepublic collaboration with security forces that respond to natural disaster .
所以這些都是我們說的開放式安全的例子 。	so these are examples of what we call opensource security .
我們結合在一起 , 來共同完成這樣的事情 。	we combined to do something like this together .
現在你看到這個 , 應該在想 , " 啊 , 船長 , 這些一定是通訊電纜 , 或者是光線 。 "	now you're looking at this and you're thinking , " ah , ship captain , these must be communication cables , or light . "
不 , 這是一個twitter公司發的世界地圖 。	no , this is a world map of twitter .
紫色是微博 , 綠色是地點 ,	purple is microblog , and green is location .
白色是結合 。	white is combination .
這很能讓人想到人口普查 , 六個人口最多的國家依次是:中國 , 印度 , facebook , 美國 , twitter , 和印尼 。	it's reminiscent of the census , and the six largest population remains: china , india , facebook , the united states , twitter , and indonesia .
我們要這些網幹什麼 ?	what do we want these nets to do ?
我們為什麼想要在其中 ?	why do we want to be there ?
我們之前討論過阿拉伯春天組織 , 以及它的力量 。	we talked earlier about the arab spring and its power .
我再舉一個例子 , 是關於資訊如何傳播的 。	i'll give you another example of how information is spreading .
我在倫敦發表一個像這個的演講 。 我說 , 我對你們說 , 我在facebook上 , 加我好友吧 。	i gave a talk like this in london , and i said , " i'm on facebook . "
觀眾在笑 。	audiences are laughing .
這是ap的一篇文章 。	this is an article by ap .
世界上有兩個地方 , 芬蘭和印尼 ,	there are two places in the world , finland and indonesia .
標題是:北約艦隊司令需要好友 。	the headline: northern journey commands need friends .
這個故事是一個催化劑 , 明天早上我就會有上百個facebook好友請求 , 來自印尼和芬蘭 , 大多數都會說: " 司令 , 我們聽說你需要好友 , 哦 , 還有 , nato是什麼 ? "	this story is a catalyst , and tomorrow morning i have hundreds of facebook friends requests from indonesia and finland , mostly saying , " command , we heard you need a friend , and , oh , what is nato ? "
是的 , 我們笑了 , 但這就是我們如何傳播資訊 , 也就是我們如何把國際 , 不同部門 , 私人和公共 , 以及那些社會網聯絡起來來創造安全 。	yes , we laughed , but that's how we communicate information , how we make international , different sectors , private and public , and those social networks connect to create security .
現在 , 讓我說一個嚴肅的訊息 。	now , let me tell you a serious message .
這是一個勇敢的英國士兵的照片 。	this is a photograph of a brave british soldier .
他在蘇格蘭衛隊 ,	he was in the scottish guards .
正在helmand站崗 , 在阿富汗南部 。	he's standing there in helmand , in southern afghanistan .
我把他放出來就是想提醒我們 , 我不想讓任何人離開這間屋子 , 抱著 " 我們不需要軍事部隊 " 的想法 。	and i put him out there just to remind us that i don't want anyone to leave this room with the idea that we don't need the military .
這正是我們在做的 , 我們做這個事情來保障自由 , 言論自由 , 和其他所有我們在社會中珍視的 。	and that's exactly what we do , and we do this to protect freedom , freedom of speech , and all the other things that we value in our society .
但你知道 , 生活不是開關 。	but you know , life is not a switch .
我們沒有要麼在戰爭 , 要麼在兵營的軍事力量 。	we're not either in a war or in a military .
我認為生活是一個可變電阻器 ,	i think life is a defibrillator .
你需要調一個數值 , 並且正像我認為我們該如何在21世紀製造安全一樣 , 我們會需要在真正的戰爭和危機中使用真正強硬的力量 , 但會有很多時候 , 就像我們已經討論的 , 我們的部隊可以使21世紀安全 , 也就是國際 , 跨部門 , 公私結合 , 的安全模式的一部分 , 透過溝通來結合起來 。	you need to address a score , and just as i think we're making security in the 21st century , we're going to need to use really hard power in real war and crisis , but there's going to be a lot of times , and as we've been talking about , our troops can get 21stcentury security , international , interagency , privatepublic patterns , combined with communication .
在結束時 , 我想說在今天早些時候聽到的關於維基百科的一些東西 。 我經常用維基百科查一些東西 , 就像你所知道的 , 維基百科不是靠12個聰明的人把自己關在屋子裡寫文章建立的 。	so to close , i want to say that earlier today , i've heard about wikipedia , and i've often used wikipedia to look at things , as you know , wikipedia isn't built by 12 brilliant people in the room .
維基百科是靠每天數萬人的更新 , 數百萬人的提取資訊而建立的 。	wikipedia is built every day by updating tens of thousands of people , by extracting information from millions of people .
這完美的說明了沒有一個人能比共同思考更聰明 。	it's a perfect illustration that nobody is smarter than thinking together .
沒有一個人 , 沒有一個聯盟 , 沒有一個國家 , 能有我們共同思考更睿智 。	none of us , none of us , none of our allies , no country , can think together much wiser .
維基百科的宣言很簡單:建立一個能人人自由共享所有知識的世界 。	the statement of wikipedia is simple: create a world free to share all knowledge .
所以 , 我想說 , 透過結合國際 , 多部門 , 公私力量 , 戰略通訊在一起 , 在21世紀 , 我們能創造共同的安全 。	so i would like to say that by combining international , interagency , privatepublic , strategic communications together , we can create shared security in the 21st century .
非常感謝 。	thank you very much .
