BLEU = 17.85 47.7/24.1/12.9/7.3 (BP = 0.984 ratio = 0.984 hyp_len = 109496 ref_len = 111282)
when you say she's a programmer , she did do some , but the real thing is to have said the future is going to be much , much more than this .	當你說她是個程式設計師 , 她確實做了一些事 , 但真正的說法是 , 未來會變得更有意義 。
now , a hundred years later , this guy comes along , alan turing , and in 1936 , and invents the computer all over again .	一百年後 , 這個傢伙在1936年之後 , 發明了電腦 。
now , of course , babbage's machine was entirely mechanical .	當然 , babbage的機器是完全機械性的 。
turing's machine was entirely theoretical .	turing的機器是完全理論的 。
both of these guys were coming from a mathematical perspective , but turing told us something very important .	這兩個人都是來自數學的觀點 , 但告訴我們很重要的 。
he laid down the mathematical foundations for computer science , and said , " it doesn't matter how you make a computer . "	他把數學基礎設置給電腦科學 , 說: 「 不管你怎麼製作電腦的數學基礎 。 」
it doesn't matter if your computer's mechanical , like babbage's was , or electronic , like computers are today , or perhaps in the future , cells , or , again , mechanical again , once we get into nanotechnology .	不論你是電腦的機械 , 像是babbage , 或電子 , 就像babbage , 或電子 , 就像babbage , 或電子 , 就像babbage , 或電子 , 如今 , 電腦的機械 , 如babbage , 或電子 , 如babbage , 或電子 , 如babbage , 或電子 , 就像babbage , 或電子 ,
we could go back to babbage's machine and just make it tiny . all those things are computers .	我們可以回到babbage的機器 , 讓它很小 , 所有東西都是電腦 。
there is in a sense a computing essence .	在某種程度上 , 電腦是有意義的 。
this is called the church–turing thesis .	這叫做churchurchurchurchurchurchurchurchurchurchurchurchurchurchurchurchurching
and so suddenly , you get this link where you say this thing babbage had built really was a computer .	突然間 , 你接觸到這個連結 , 你說這是一台電腦 。
in fact , it was capable of doing everything we do today with computers , only really slowly .	實際上 , 現今我們所做的一切都能用電腦 , 真的很緩慢 。
to give you an idea of how slowly , it had about 1k of memory .	給你一個想法 , 速度有多慢 , 它有大約1k記憶 。
it used punch cards , which were being fed in , and it ran about 10 , 000 times slower the first zx81 .	它用punch卡片 , 它會用punch卡片 , 它會用punch卡片 , 它會用punch卡片 , 它會用punch卡片 , 它會在大約一萬倍慢慢 。
it did have a ram pack .	牠有強烈的包裝 。
you could add on a lot of extra memory if you wanted to .	你可以加上更多額外的記憶 。
so , where does that bring us today ?	所以 , 今天我們來到哪裡 ?
so there are plans .	這裡有計劃 。
over in swindon , the science museum archives , there are hundreds of plans and thousands of pages of notes written by charles babbage about this analytical engine .	在華盛頓 , 科學博物館檔案 , 有數百個計劃和成千上萬頁的筆記 , 由查爾斯•巴布所寫的 。
one of those is a set of plans that we call plan 28 , and that is also the name of a charity that i started with doron swade , who was the curator of computing at the science museum , and also the person who drove the project to build a difference engine , and our plan is to build it .	其中一個是我們稱之為28的名字 , 也是我先前提到的名字 , 也是一位慈善機構的名稱 , 當時我開啟了這個專案計畫 , 建造出不同的引擎 , 而我們的計畫是要建造出不同的引擎 。
here in south kensington , we will build the analytical engine .	在南肯斯頓 , 我們會建造出分析引擎 。
the project has a number of parts to it .	這個專案計畫有幾個部分 。
one was the scanning of babbage's archive .	第一 , 掃描是babbage的檔案
that's been done . the second is now the study of all of those plans to determine what to build .	這已經完成了 。 第二 , 目前正在研究所有的計畫 , 來決定要建造什麼 。
the third part is a computer simulation of that machine , and the last part is to physically build it at the science museum .	第三個部分是電腦模擬機器 , 最後一部分是用電腦模擬來實現它 。
when it's built , you'll finally be able to understand how a computer works , because rather than having a tiny chip in front of you , you've got to look at this humongous thing and say , " ah , i see the memory operating , i see the cpu operating , i hear it operating . i probably smell it operating . "	當它完成了 , 你就得去看看這件大事 , 說: 「 啊 , 我看到記憶操作 , 我看到了cpu操作 , 我知道電腦是怎麼運作的 , 但是我看不見這段影片 , 並且說: 「 啊 , 我看到記憶操作 , 我看到記憶操作 , 我看到這隻小晶片 。 」
but in between that we're going to do a simulation .	但在我們要做模擬的時候 。
babbage himself wrote , he said , as soon as the analytical engine exists , it will surely guide the future course of science .	babbage自己寫 , 他說 , 只要分析引擎存在 , 它肯定會引導未來科學的課程 。
of course , he never built it , because he was always fiddling with new plans , but when it did get built , of course , in the 1940s , everything changed .	當然 , 當然 , 他從來沒有建造 , 因為他一直在1940年代 , 改變了 , 一切都改變了 。
now , i'll just give you a little taste of what it looks like in motion with a video which shows just one part of the cpu mechanism working .	現在 , 我會給你們看一段影片 , 說明它看起來像什麼樣子的動作 , 會讓它看起來像動作的影片 , 顯示出一部分是cpu機械工作的一部分 。
so this is just three sets of cogs , and it's going to add . this is the adding mechanism in action , so you imagine this gigantic machine .	所以 , 這只是三隻狗 , 還會加上加速器 , 這樣你就可以想像這個巨大的機器 。
so , give me five years .	所以 , 給我五年 。
before the 2030s happen , we'll have it .	在2030年之前 , 我們會有它 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝 。
in this imagefilled talk , yann arthusbertrand displays his three most recent projects on humanity and our habitat stunning aerial photographs in his series " the earth from above , " personal interviews from around the globe featured in his web project " 6 billion others , " and his soontobereleased movie , " home , " which documents human impact on the environment through breathtaking video .	在這張圖片中 , 尼安•哈伯特曼在他的作品中展示了人類最近期的作品 , 在這個圖片中 , 《地球上》 , 《家人》 , 《六十億人》 , 以及他的《地球》 , 《地球上》 , 《人類的景象》 , 《人類的景象》 , 在《地球上》的電影中 , 《家人》 , 描繪出了人類對環境的影像 , 透過呼吸拍攝影片來記錄人類的影響 。
art , climate change , environment , film , future , humanity , media , photography	藝術、氣候變遷、環境、電影、未來、人類、媒體、攝影師 。
yann arthusbertrand captures fragile earth in wideangle	yann藝術husbertrand捕捉到脆弱地球
i have a big impact on the planet to travel here by plane .	我在地球上有很大的影響力 , 以飛行飛行 。
i emitted , in the atmosphere , nine tons of co2 ; that is the weight of two elephants .	在大氣層中 , 大氣層中 , 9噸的二氧化碳 , 這是兩隻大象的重量 。
i came here to speak about ecology , and i emitted as much co2 as a frenchman in one year .	我來這裡談的是生態學 , 我把二氧化碳當作法國人一年 。
so what do i have to do ?	所以 , 我該怎麼做 ?
i have to kill a frenchman when i come back at home ?	我必須殺一位法國人 , 當我回到家的時候 ?
i have to do my carbon offset in another way , like i do every time .	我必須用另一種方式來做我的碳 , 就像每次都一樣 。
in fact my work is to show our impact on our planet .	事實上 , 我的作品是展示我們對地球的影響 。
i'm going to show you some examples of the last pictures i've done in the last year .	我要給你們看一些我在過去一年拍攝的照片 。
alberta sand oil , a lot of pollution .	阿爾伯沙油 , 很多污染 。
you know the problem ; we don't want to believe what we know .	你知道問題 , 我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
in alberta people work nonstop , 24 hours by seven to extract as much oil as they can .	在阿爾伯塔的人們工作不穩定的石油 , 二十四小時 , 七分之二十四小時 , 才能讓它們能做到 。
we know about the end of oil .	我們知道石油的終點 。
oil sand is not a longterm solution .	石油沙不是長期的解決方案 。
but we use three times more oil than we find every year .	但我們每年使用三倍的石油 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
coral reef in new caledonia .	珊瑚礁在新加勒尼亞 。
100 percent of the coral may be wiped out before 2050 because of global warming .	百分之百的珊瑚可能在2050年是因為全球暖化 。
and you know how coral are very sensitive to temperature , and are very important for the biodiversity of the sea .	你知道珊瑚對溫度非常敏感 , 對於溫度的生物多樣性也是很重要的 。
north pole . i've done this picture last summer .	北極 , 我去年夏天拍了這張照片 。
it was impossible to do this picture 15 years ago .	在15年前 , 不可能做到這張照片 。
now there is a new way open between atlantic and pacific .	現在有一種新的開放大西洋和太平洋 。
the thickness of the arctic decreased more than 40 percent since 1960 .	北極的厚度減少了40% , 超過40% 。
there is a new face of kilimanjaro without ice .	這裡有一個新的臉 , 沒有冰 。
it lost 80 percent of its ice .	它失去了80%的冰 。
according to scientists , in 100 years all the mountain glacier will be gone .	根據科學家 , 一百年來 , 山冰河會消失 。
glaciers are very important for the life on earth .	冰河對地球的生命很重要 。
like al gore told you , two billion people live on the water from the glacier of himalaya .	就像alyaya的水一樣 , 兩十億人住在水裡 , 來自喜馬拉雅山脈 。
return of fish men .	返回漁民 。
one fifth of human kind depend on fish to live .	其中一個五分之一的人依賴魚生存 。
today now 70 percent of the fish stock are overexploited .	現今 , 70%的魚類股票被剝削 。
according to fao , if we don't change our system of fishing the main sea resources will be gone in 2050 .	根據fao , 如果我們不改變我們的系統 , 就能在2050年就消失 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
the beautiful picture , by [unclear] in africa .	美麗的照片 , 來自非洲 。
one human of six have not enough to eat in the world .	世界上有六個人沒有足夠的食物 。
one billion people have not enough to eat .	十億人沒有足夠的食物 。
in africa , corn is one of the main foods in many places .	在非洲 , 玉米是許多地方的主要食物之一 。
here in america , 90 percent of the corn cultivated is used to feed animals or to do oil .	在美國 , 90%的玉米被用來餵養動物或做石油 。
palm tree plantation in borneo .	棕櫚樹種植在出生 。
every year we lose 50 thousand square miles in deforestation .	每年我們損失500平方英里的森林砍伐 。
refugee camp in darfur .	難民營在達爾 。
today we have 20 million refugees in the world .	現今我們有兩千萬難民 。
according to the u . n . , we speak about 250 million refugees in 2050 .	根據聯合國 , 我們談到2500萬難民在2050年 。
i always show my pictures in the street .	我總是在街上展示我的照片 。
we have done already 100 exhibitions in the cities .	我們已經在城市裡有100個展覽 。
but how to understand the world without the voice of people ?	但如何了解世界沒有人的聲音 ?
landscape was not enough .	景觀不夠 。
it was obvious to me to do another work .	很明顯我做另一件工作 。
i launched a project named six billion others .	我推出了一個專案計畫叫六十億人 。
i sent around the world six cameramen asking the same question , the same crucial question , about life .	我在全世界六個攝影機問了同樣的問題 , 同樣的問題 , 關於生命 。
we have done five thousand interviews .	我們已經完成了五千次訪問 。
i'm going to show you this .	我要給你們看這張照片 。
man: the most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life ?	男人:我人生中最美麗的東西是什麼 ?
it's when my dad told me , " here , i give you this girl as your fiance . "	那時我爸爸告訴我: 「 在這裡 , 我給你們一個女子 。 」
woman: love ? love is nice if you can have it .	女人:愛嗎 ? 愛是好的如果你能有它的話 。
second man: romeo and juliet , sassi and panno , dodi and diana , heer and ranjha , this is love ! third man: my greatest fear is . . .	第二個男人:羅米歐和茱莉葉、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西、蘇西 ,
woman: you're asking me a hard question .	女人:你問我一個困難的問題 。
fourth man: i live happily because what else should i do ?	第四個男人:我活得很快樂 , 因為他應該要做什麼 ?
fifth man: the first thing i remember . . .	第五個男人:我記得的第一件事......
fifth man: . . . from my childhood , fifth man: we were having fun , biking .	第五個男人:我很有趣 , 自行車 。
seventh man: we invented stories , we flew around the world , while remaining in our attic .	第七個男人:我們發明了故事 , 我們在世界各地飛行 , 同時依靠我們的原則 。
eighth man: i had a big laugh today .	八歲:我現在有很大笑 。
ninth man: you see , family is . . . it's awful .	第九個男人:你看到的 , 家庭是很糟糕的 。
10th man: in the word life , you have the life .	第十個男人:在生命中 , 你有生命 。
11th man: who am i ? isn't that the biggest question ?	第十個男人:我是誰 ? 我不是最大的問題嗎 ?
12th man: if i was to go back to iraq and speak to the people , i'd have to bow down and kiss their feet .	第十二個男人:如果我要回到伊拉克 , 跟別人說話 , 我得要跳下去 , 親吻他們的腳 。
just as that woman tried to kiss my feet when we were taking her sons .	就像那位女性試著吻我的腳 , 當我們把她的兒子放在一起時 。
and i feel humbled by their strength .	我覺得謙卑的是他們的力量 。
and i will forever feel a need to make reparations to iraq .	而且我永遠都覺得需要在伊拉克做這件事 。
second woman: dad , mom , i grew up .	第二個女人:爸媽 , 我長大了 。
you shouldn't worry about me . dad doesn't need to go to work .	你不應該擔心我 , 爸爸不需要去工作 。
my family . . . what can i say ?	我的家人......我說什麼 ?
at the moment , my family is very poor , my life here in shenzhen is just about showing myself that i can earn more and to let my parents stay and have something to live on .	此刻 , 我的家人很貧窮 , 我在非洲的人生 , 讓我父母留住 , 並讓父母留住 , 並讓父母留住 , 讓父母留住 。
i don't want them to spend their whole lives in poverty .	我不希望他們在貧窮生活中生活 。
if someday i can achieve something , i would like to say thank you daddy and mommy .	如果有一天我可以達成 , 我想說謝謝你們爸爸和媽媽 。
thank you for having fed me and raised me , and for making my life of today . thank you .	謝謝你們 , 感謝你們 , 讓我今天的生活 。 謝謝 。
13th man: after seven years now of being in a wheelchair , i've done more in life being in a chair than out of a chair .	第13個人:在輪椅上 , 我在輪椅上比出椅子多了三分之一 。
i still surf . i sail the world . i freedive .	我仍然在海岸 , 我保持安全 。 我自由了 。
after many people said i couldn't do that .	許多人說我無法做到 。
and i think that comes from connecting with nature , connecting with the energy of life , because we're all disabled in some way on the planet spiritually , mentally or physically .	我認為 , 來自與自然連結 , 與生命的力量連結 , 因為我們都是殘障在地球上 , 心理上、心理上或身體上 。
i got the easy part .	我得到了很簡單的部分 。
14th man: let's say that you and me like each other .	第十四個男人:咱們說你和我一樣 。
you come from elsewhere .	你來自其他地方 。
you don't know me . i don't know you .	你不知道我 。 我不知道你 。
we talk without lying .	我們沒有說謊 。
if i do like you , i give you one cow and many other things and we become friends .	如果我喜歡你 , 我給你一杯牛 , 許多其他的東西 , 我們變成朋友 。
how can we make it all by ourselves ?	我們要如何讓它成為我們自己 ?
yab: you can also go to the website , answer respond to the questions also .	yab:你也可以去網站 , 回答回應的問題 。
now i am going to speak to you about my movie .	現在我要跟各位談談我的電影 。
for the last three years , i was shooting the earth for the movie .	過去三年 , 我在拍攝地球的電影 。
the name of the movie is " home " " maison . "	電影的名字是 「 家 」 的名字 。
it is about the state of the planet .	重點是關於地球的狀態 。
it's a fantastic story of life on the earth .	這是地球上生命的重要故事 。
i'm very proud to show you the teaser .	我很驕傲地向各位展示一下 。
video: this earth is four and a half billion years old .	影片:地球是450億年前 。
these plants , several hundred million years old .	這些植物已經有幾億年了 。
and we humans have been walking upright for only 200 thousand years .	我們人類一直在走直直到20000年 。
we've managed to adapt , and have conquered the whole planet .	我們已經征服了整個星球 。
for generations , we've been raising our children , not unlike millions of other species living beside us .	世世代代 , 我們養育我們的孩子 , 不像其他物種生活在我們身邊 。
for the past 30 years i've been closely watching the earth and its dwellers from high up in the sky .	過去30年來 , 我一直靠近看地球 , 來自高空的天空 。
our life is tied to the wellbeing of our planet .	我們的生命和地球的幸福相比 。
we depend on water , forests , deserts , oceans .	我們依賴水、森林、沙漠、海洋 。
fishing , breeding , farming are still the world's foremost human occupations .	魚類、養殖、養育地球 , 都是人類佔領最大的部分 。
and what binds us together is far greater than what divides us .	結合在一起的距離 , 遠比我們所分裂的還要多 。
we all share the same need for the earth's gifts the same wish to rise above ourselves , and become better .	我們都對地球的同一個願望 , 變得更好 。
and yet we carry on raising walls to keep us apart .	然而 , 我們仍在提高牆壁 , 讓我們分離 。
today our greatest battle is to protect the natural offerings of our planet .	現今 , 我們最大的戰役就是保護地球的天然資源 。
in less than 50 years we've altered it more thoroughly than in the entire history of mankind .	不到50年以來 , 我們已經改變了人類的歷史 。
half of the world's forests have vanished .	世界上有一半的森林已經消失 。
water resources are running low .	水資源很低 。
intensive farming is depleting soils .	強化農場是耗費土壤 。
our energy sources are not sustainable .	我們的能源來源並不永續 。
the climate is changing .	氣候變遷 。
we are endangering ourselves .	我們正在瀕臨絕種 。
we're only trying to improve our lives .	我們只是試著改善我們的生活 。
but the wealth gaps are growing wider .	但財富差距也越來越大 。
we haven't yet understood that we're going at a much faster pace than the planet can sustain .	我們還沒了解到 , 地球能持續下去 , 我們還能保持更快的速度 。
we know that solutions are available today .	我們知道現今的解決方案是可行的 。
we all have the power to change this trend for the better .	我們都有權力可以改變這個趨勢 。
so what are we waiting for ?	所以 , 我們在等什麼 ?
yab: luc besson is the producer of the movie .	雅:lucbeson是電影的製作者 。
but it is not a normal movie .	但這不是正常的電影 。
the film is going to be distributed free .	電影將會是分散式的 。
this film has no copyright .	這部電影沒有版權 。
on the five of june , the environment day , everybody can download the movie on internet .	在六月六日 , 每個人都能在網路上下載電影 。
the film is given for free to the distributor for tv and theater to show it the fifth of june .	這部電影是為了免費給予電視劇院和劇院來表達第五年六月的作品 。
there is no business on this movie .	這部電影沒有任何商業 。
it is also available for school , cities , ngos and you .	它也能在學校、城市、非政府組織和你身上 。
we have to believe what we know .	我們必須相信我們所知道的 。
let me tell you something .	讓我告訴你一些事情 。
it's too late to be pessimistic really too late .	已經太遲了 , 太遲了 。
we have all a part of the solutions .	我們都有一部分的解決方案 。
to finish , i would like to welcome the 4 , 700th baby born since the beginning of this talk .	為了結束 , 我希望歡迎這場演講的第4700名嬰兒誕生 。
merci beaucoup . i love you .	我很愛你 。
illustrious jugglers the raspyni brothers show off their uncanny balance , agility , coordination and willingness to sacrifice . now , if you'll just stand completely still . . .	同性戀、協調、協調和願意犧牲的平衡 , 如同你剛剛完全依賴的平衡一樣 。
collaboration , entertainment , humor , physics	合作、娛樂、幽默、物理學 。
the raspyni brothers juggle and jest	拉斯普尼兄弟弟弟和傑西 。
dan holzman: please throw out the beanbag chairs . here we go .	丹•霍爾茲曼:請把丟出的粉碎椅子拿出來 。 我們來了 。
barry friedman: there are all kinds of hightech chairs here today , but this is really , i think , when it reached its peak as far as ergonomics , comfort , design , flexibility . . .	今日有許多高科技椅子 , 但這真的是我認為 , 當它到達高科技椅子時 , 其實是最高科技的椅子 , 但這真的是 , 我覺得 , 當它到達高科技椅子時 , 其實是非常的 。
dh: now obviously , this is not something we do on our regular show ; it's something we just kind of learned for this , so we're going to try . but can we have some inspirational music for the beanbag chairs ?	dh:現在顯然 , 這不是我們常常演奏的音樂 , 我們會嘗試 , 但是我們可以有一些靈感的音樂 ?
bf: nice show , daniel , nice show . you are the man !	布:好的 , 丹尼爾 , 很好 , 你是男人 !
nice show . man , that was good !	很好 。 男人 , 很好 !
bf: you know , sometimes when people do those , they go all the way down .	班:你知道 , 有時候當人們做這些時 , 他們就會走下去 。
you actually just did that .	你其實只是這樣做 。
that's the kind of extra effort that's gotten us where we are today . . .	這就是我們現在所得到的最多的努力 , 這種額外的努力
dh: all right , let's show them something special .	好 , 讓我們來展示一些特殊的東西 。
bf: . . . without a macarthur grant .	布:所以 , 沒有麥克拉德 。
yeah , look at this . you know , all kinds of different . . .	嗯 , 看看這個 。 你知道的 , 所有的不同 。
ted is about invention , let's be honest . right ? dh: yeah , it is .	ted是關於發明 , 老實說 , 好嗎 ? dh:是的 。
bf: last night , michael moschen showed some juggling props he has invented and working on .	昨晚 , michaelmoschen展示了一些他已經發明和努力的演奏 。
right now , dan's going to show something he actually invented .	現在 , 丹要展示他發明的東西 。
dh: a type of juggling i actually invented , right after i saw another juggler do it .	dh:一種我真正發明的技巧 , 在我看到另一隻雜耍之後 , 我才發現另一隻雞蛋白 。
dh: and this is a small excerpt from a longer piece .	dh:這只是一個小小的表演 。
folks , this is shaker cup juggling . it's not a showstopper but it certainly slows it down .	大家 , 這是shakercolks , 不是一個電視節目的 , 但它肯定會慢下來 。
bf: oh yeah , it does .	沒錯 。
bf: oh , daniel .	布:喔 , 丹尼爾 。
bf: ok . dh: oh ! all right .	沒錯 。
i'm now pushing my luck: i'm skipping right to six cups .	我現在正在推動我的幸運:我正在推動我的運氣:我在跳上六個杯子 。
in order to do six cups , i must have perfect control over three with my right hand .	為了做六個杯子 , 我必須有完美的控制超過三項 。
bf: also three with his left .	布魯諾:還有三位他左邊 。
and now , all six cups . should i do it on the first try or should i miss once on purpose ?	現在 , 六個杯子 , 我應該先試試試試看 , 還是該做一次 ?
bf: first try ? once on purpose ?	首先試試嗎 ?
dh: how about if i try first and then decide ?	dh:如果我試試看 , 又會怎麼做 ?
bf: good idea . let's leave that . we'll leave that door open .	好吧 , 咱們來吧 。 讓我們離開那門打開 。
dh: he's looking at me .	dh:他看著我 。
bf: that's all right , he does that . all right .	沒錯 , 他這樣做 。
dh: oh ! it's time for richard's help .	噢 ! 這是時間理查的幫助 。
oh , good . all right .	喔 , 好 。 好 。
bf: you know , over the years , every year at the conference , it's kind of become a tradition for us to do something dangerous with richard . and we've always done something with the bullwhips in our act . it's funny , for years i did it with daniel holding balloons .	比方說 , 過去幾年來 , 每一年 , 都在做一些危險的事 。 我們一直在做一些危險的事 。 我們一直在做一些危險的事 。 我們一直在做一些危險的事 。 我們一直在做一些危險的事 。 我們一直在做一些危險的事 。 我們一直在做一些危險的事 。 我們一直在做一些危險的事 。 我們一直在做一些危險的事 。 我們一直在做一些危險的事 。 我們一直在做一些危險的事 。 我們一直在做一些危險的事 。 我們一直在做一些危險的事 。
and then we thought , " how stupid . "	然後我們想: 「 愚蠢的 。 」
dh: excuse me , could we work on the design of the microphone ?	dh:藉由我 , 我們能在麥克風的設計上工作嗎 ?
bf: i think that's the next session .	布:我認為這是下一個場景 。
bf: yeah . and so we've actually found a way to incorporate richard in this .	布:是的 , 我們實際上找到了一種方式來融合這個 。
he actually assumes more of the danger in this .	他其實會假設更多危險 。
dh: please stand up , richard .	請站起來 , 請站起來 。
dh: now richard , please . . .	現在理查 , 請 。
bf: ok , sorry .	好 , 抱歉 。
dh: jesus christ . richard , please stand in front of me .	dh:耶穌基督 , 克里斯 , 請站在我面前 。
richard wurman: can i say something ?	理查•沃爾曼:我能說些什麼嗎 ?
rw: in all past years i've rehearsed with them , the things that have happened to me i have no idea what's going to happen and that's the truth .	理:在過去幾年 , 我和他們有關 , 我完全不知道會發生什麼事 , 那是真相 。
dh: all right , please stand here in front . . .	好 , 請站在前面......
god , i hate that . put your hands out like this , please .	天啊 , 我討厭這樣 。 請舉手 。 請舉手 。
bf: no , come stay up with him .	貝:不 , 請跟他一起 。
dan used to actually hold them but now he's got you for protection .	丹習慣真的抓住他們 , 但現在他給你保護 。
it's kind of neat . ok .	很好 。 好 。
dh: wow , you've been working out .	dh:哇 , 你已經在工作了 。
bf: no , shut up !	不 , 閉嘴 !
having a little bit of richard time . that's nice , that's good .	有一點理查時間 , 很好 , 很好 。
ok , here we go .	好 , 我們來了 。
have him hold your wrist so i can . . .	他握住你的手腕 , 我可以......
dh: please hold my wrist , will you . bf: yeah , hold this a minute .	請抱持我的手腕 , 請舉手 , 請舉手 。
ok , hold on .	好 , 請舉手 。
bf: all those midyear phone calls are coming back to me now , richard .	bf:所有這些手機的電話通通都回來了 , 理查 。
dh: so richard , what were we on the list ? like 1 , 020 ?	dh:那麼理查 , 我們在哪裡 ? 像1 , 020 ?
bf: i think we were just outside .	布:我認為我們只是在外面 。
dh: sorry . bf: having some bad flashbacks .	dh:抱歉 。 bf:有一些壞的閃爍 。
rw: do you want me to hold you or not ? dh: don't hold me that hard .	盧安:你想要我嗎 ? 喔 , 不要抱著我嗎 ?
bf: here we go , i'm taking it .	比方:我們去了 , 我正在拍攝它 。
dh: one more , one more .	首先 , 再來一次 。
bf: we've got one more we're going to do .	布:我們有了一步 。
rw: do i get to hold them ?	雷恩:我能抓住他們嗎 ?
bf: you don't want to hold these , trust me .	布:你不想抓住這些信任 。
dh: could you spread your legs a little bit ?	dh:你可以把你的腿稍稍稍微一點嗎 ?
bf: gloria , you want to do it ? it's very cool .	bf:gloria , 你想做嗎 ? 這很酷 。
one more try . man , i don't want to get too close .	另外一個人 , 我不想太接近 。
could you just push that ?	你能不能推動它嗎 ?
dh: wow ! boy !	哇 ! 哇 !
bf: that's cool . i always wanted to try that .	這很酷 。 我總是想要嘗試 。
dh: let's jump this way , though .	嗯 , 我們來跳一下吧 。
now , we risked richard's life , it's only fair we risk our own lives .	現在 , 我們冒著生命危險 , 只公平我們冒著自己的生命 。
so to do that , i will juggle these three razorsharp sickles .	為了做到這一點 , 我會觸發三種雷札的眼鏡 。
and if that wasn't enough , and judging by your response , it's not . . .	如果那不夠 , 你的反應也不夠 , 那就不是......
dh: wow ! bf: hoping for a little more build .	dh:哇 ! 太好了 ! 哇 ! 哇 ! bf:哇 ! 哇 ! bf:哇 ! 哇 ! bf:哇 !
dh: true . barry . . .	dh:真的 , 等等 。
bf: i'm going to run up behind him .	布:我要在他面前走 。
dh: leap over my shoulder .	dh:在我的肩膀上移動 。
bf: up and over his shoulders .	布:在他的肩膀上 。
dh: grab the blades in midair , land right there in a pool of blood . . .	dh:抓住車子 , 躺在半島上 , 那裡有血液 。
impossible , you say ?	不可能 , 你說嗎 ?
bf: incredible , you say ?	布:不可思議 , 你說嗎 ?
dh: why bother , you say ?	dh:為什麼你會這麼說 ?
bf: here we go .	布:我們去了 。
dh: just do it juggler boys , you say ?	dh:就這樣做吧 , 你說嗎 ?
bf: this guy , this guy invented air .	bf:這傢伙發明了空氣 。
dh: i think so , that's right .	沒錯 。
bf: he invented the pencil .	bf:他發明了鉛筆
dh: all right , we'll do this trick , but please remember it took us over 10 years to perfect .	好的 , 我們會做這個技巧 , 但請記住我們花了十年才完美 。
bf: ten years to perfect , which you're about to see .	布魯諾:十年來完美 , 你要看的 。
dh: it's not that difficult , we just don't like to practice that much .	dh:這不是那麼困難 , 我們不喜歡練習太多 。
bf: no , it's a hassle . traveling too much .	沒錯 。 旅行太多了 。
actually , we will take a second to prove this could be fake that the blades are indeed razorsharp .	實際上 , 我們要花一秒鐘來證明這可能是假的 , 火星是有火星的 。
dh: will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage ?	dh:會有人請把小農動物放在舞台上嗎 ?
or a virgin for a sacrifice ?	或為一個犧牲者提供犧牲 ?
bf: no , she's got . . . farm animal .	布:不 , 她是......農場動物 。
dh: do you have a small farm animal ?	dh:你有一隻小農動物嗎 ?
just trying to play the odds . all right , here we go .	只是試著玩樂意 。 好吧 , 我們開始吧 。
bf: over the top , over the top .	布:在頂端 , 頂端 。
dh: how you feeling , barry ? you feeling all right ?	dh:你感覺到什麼 ? 你感覺好了嗎 ?
bf: yeah , it's all right .	沒錯 , 沒錯 。
dh: do you feel everything's ok ? the atmosphere , the . . .	dh:你覺得一切都好嗎 ? 大氣......
bf: yeah , a little sketchy .	沒錯 , 小小的桌子 。
dh: everything up here's ok ?	dh:所有東西都好了嗎 ?
dh: then here we go .	開始吧 !
bf: this one's a little . . . who's doing the lights ? could you point that a little more directly into my eyeballs ? is that possible ? i can still see a little .	布:這是個小事 。 誰在做燈亮 ? 可以再把一點點放在我的眼球上 , 可能嗎 ? 我還能看得見一點 。
dh: and turn up the intensity ; we're still pink in the middle .	dh:然後把強度放大 , 我們仍然在中間 。
we went too far .	我們太遠了 。
bf: yeah , it's too far . it's too much of a visual .	bf:是的 , 它太遠了 , 太遠了 , 太遠了 。
the design of the body is a whole different thing .	身體的設計是完全不同的 。
dh: ready , barry ? bf: over the top .	dh:準備好了嗎 ? bf:準備好了嗎 ?
dh: may we have our jumping music please ?	dh:可能我們有跳傘音樂嗎 ?
may we have it a bit louder ?	可能我們有更大的聲音嗎 ?
bf: they're a good crew ! whoa !	bf:他們是好的crew ! 哇 !
dh: whoa , sorry . all right .	dh:哇 , 抱歉 , 抱歉 。
bf: we're going on .	布:我們要去了 。
dh: all right , we'll try again .	好 , 我們再試一次 。
bf: all right ? oh my gosh . oh .	好嗎 ? 噢 ! 我的天啊 !
dh: all right , here we go . sorry about that .	好了 , 抱歉 。
bf: i thought i had the hard part . ok .	bf:我覺得我有很困難的部分 。 好 。
dh: whenever you're ready .	dh:只要你準備好了 。
bf: there we go !	布:我們走了 !
all right , get up ! come on and dance ! dh: dance , come on . bf: come on and dance !	好吧 ! 來吧 ! 來吧 ! 來吧 ! 來吧 ! 來吧 ! 來吧 ! 來吧 ! 來吧 ! 來吧 ! 來吧 ! 來吧 !
somebody dance ! come on !	有人跳舞 ! 來吧 !
wow , wow , ok , stop .	哇 , 哇 , 好 , 停下來 。
weird , no one dances . we're two guys doing this .	很怪異 , 沒有舞蹈 。 我們是兩個人做這件事 。
i think that's uncomfortable for everyone .	我覺得這對每個人來說都不舒服 。
dh: the french judge . . .	法國法官......
bf: one more quick thing .	比方說:更加快一點 。
dh: the french judge gives it a 5 . 2 .	法國法國法國法國法國法國判定了5.2 。
bf: well , you know . . .	布:嗯 , 你知道......
dh: there you go . . . bf: oh , yeah . another one coming in .	大衛:喔 , 好 , 再來 。
dh: tell them about our bio and stuff .	dh:告訴他們關於我們的生物和東西 。
bf: yeah . in our bio , some of you may have read that we've won two world juggling championships .	沒錯 , 在我們的生物當中有些人可能已經讀過我們贏了兩次世界雜耍冠軍
and believe it or not , you don't win juggling champions for doing things with bullwhips or shaker cups .	信不信由你 , 你不會贏得雜耍冠軍 , 來做一些事 , 或打擊冠軍 。
we're going to show you right now an excerpt from a routine that we used to wipe out the other juggling team competition .	我們現在要展示給你們看的 , 由我們剛剛用過的 , 用來推出另一組競爭的專家 。
dh: i know what you're thinking: other juggling teams must really suck .	dh:我知道你在想什麼 , 其他雜耍團隊一定很駭人 。
bf: juggling's got a bad rap .	bf:jogging有很糟的強暴 。
dh: but wait , barry , there's still one more club lying there by my foot .	dh:等等 , 等等 , 貝瑞 , 仍然有一個俱樂部在我腳上 。
and look , it has a twin !	看看 , 它有雙胞胎 !
dh: there's still one more by my foot .	dh:還有我腳的腳 。
what do you want me to do with it ?	你希望我能做什麼 ?
bf: richard you tell him , it's your last year .	布:理查你告訴他 , 那是你最後一年 。
dh: that's a pretty good setup , richard .	dh:那是個很棒的設備 , 理查 。
bf: yeah , it's a good setup . that's a big setup .	沒錯 , 那是個很大的設備 。
dh: you can't get any better than that . all right . what i will do: i will use my pantherlike reflexes .	沒錯 , 我會做的事:我會用我的羽狀反射 。
dh: i got that to reach down and grab that club in my grip of steel .	dh:我拿到這條路線 , 直到下去 , 抓下那條繩子 。
dh: i touched it , barry . that should be enough .	dh:我碰到它 , 它應該是夠的 。
bf: it's progress , that's the thing .	bf:它是進步 , 這是進步 。
dh: how about that ? i'll do it again .	dh:怎麼樣呢 ? 我再再次做一次 。
oh wait , it's on your side , barry .	喔 , 等等 , 它在你旁邊 。
and it's awfully windy over there .	那裡有很大的風力 。
bf: it is , it's weird . you wouldn't think it would affect half the stage , but it is . it's weird .	沒錯 ! 這很奇怪 。 你不會覺得它會影響半個舞台 , 但它是怪異的 。
watch this: what i'm going to do is slide the seventh one onto my foot .	看這個:我要做的是把七個放在我的腳上 。
dh: wow ! what a great trick , barry !	哇 ! 太棒了 ! 很棒 !
oh , look how it lies there .	喔 , 看看它是怎樣的 。
oh , barry , is there nothing you can't do ?	喔 , 抱歉 , 你不能做些什麼 ?
you are my hero . you're my jim shea , jr .	你是我的英雄 , 你是我的jr 。 你是我的英雄 。
bf: from my foot , i'll attempt to kick the seventh club . here we go .	bf:從我的腳下 , 我會試著踢七個俱樂部 。 我們來看看 。
dh: where , barry ? where ? tell us , barry .	dh:在哪裡 ? 哪裡 ? 告訴我們 , 貝瑞 。
[unclear] eagerly awaits your next syllable . what will it be ?	請你下一陣子 , 會怎麼樣 ?
what gem of knowledge ?	知識的知識 ?
what pearl of wisdom ?	什麼智慧 ?
do you want to buy a vowel , barry ?	你想買一輛vowel、barry ?
is that your final answer ?	這是你最後的答案嗎 ?
bf: all right ! you have to turn off the tv from time to time .	布:沒錯 ! 你必須把電視從時間轉移到時間 。
dh: i do , i do .	大衛:我做 , 我做 。
bf: from my foot , the kick up in the seven .	bf:從我的腳上 , 踢出七個 。
dh: we will juggle seven .	dh:我們會觸七個 。
bf: from six to seven . dh: that's a world's record . bf: really ? dh: for us .	從6到7.dh:那是世界的紀錄 。 bf:真的嗎 ? dh:對我們來說 。
dh: whenever you're ready there , big guy .	dh:只要你準備好 , 大傢伙 。
put your tongue away , barry .	把你的舌頭放到舌頭上 , 抱歉 。
bf: oh , oh , whoa .	布:喔 , 喔 , 喔 。
dh: please , please stay seated . stay seated . thank you .	請留下 , 請保留下來 。 謝謝 。
because now , to make this twice as difficult , we'll juggle the seven clubs back . . .	因為現在 , 要讓這兩倍很難 , 我們會碰七個俱樂部 。
dh: . . . to back .	dh:嗯 , 回來 。
bf: thank you , that's it .	bf:謝謝你 , 這是它 。
bf: thank you guys !	布:謝謝你們 !
dh: thank you very much !	非常謝謝 !
in this accessible talk from tedxboston , richard resnick shows how cheap and fast genome sequencing is about to turn health care upside down .	在tedxboston的演講中 , 理查•尼克斯頓理查•雷尼克博士頓有很便宜、快速基因組序列 , 將健康照護轉移 。
dna , biotech , health care , science , technology	dna、生物科技、醫療、科學、科技 。
richard resnick: welcome to the genomic revolution	理查•雷斯尼克:歡迎來到基因革命 。
ladies and gentlemen , i present to you the human genome .	各位先生女士 , 我給你們看人類基因組 。
chromosome one , top left .	染色體 , 最左邊的 。
bottom right are the sex chromosomes .	底部是性染色體 。
women have two copies of that big x chromosome ; men have the x and , of course , that small copy of the y .	女性有兩份x染色體 ; 男性有x染色體 ; 男性有x染色體 ; 男性有x染色體 ; 男性有x染色體 ; 男性有x染色體 ; 男性有x染色體 ; 男性有x染色體 ;
sorry boys , but it's just a tiny little thing that makes you different .	抱歉男孩 , 但它只是個小小的東西讓你不一樣 。
so if you zoom in on this genome , then what you see , of course , is this double helix structure the code of life spelled out with these four biochemical letters , or we call them bases , right: a , c , g and t .	如果你放大這個基因組 , 那麼你看到的是這四個生物化學信件 , 或我們稱它們為基礎的 , 叫做 「 基礎 」 , 意思是:c、g、t 。
how many are there in the human genome ? three billion .	在人類基因組中有多少 ? 三十億人 ?
is that a big number ?	這是個大數字嗎 ?
well , everybody can throw around big numbers .	嗯 , 每個人都可以推出大數字 。
but in fact , if i were to place one base on each pixel of this 1280 by 800 resolution screen , we would need 3 , 000 screens to take a look at the genome .	但事實上 , 如果我要在一個基礎上 , 用3 , 000個螢幕 , 我們需要3000個螢幕 , 我們需要3000個螢幕 , 我們需要3 , 000個螢幕來檢查基因組 。
so it's really quite big .	所以這真的很大 。
and perhaps because of its size , a group of people all , by the way , with y chromosomes decided they would want to sequence it .	或許是因為它的大小 , 一群人 , 和y染色體一樣 , 會想序列它 。
and so 15 years , actually , and about four billion dollars later , the genome was sequenced and published .	所以 , 15年來 , 大約四十億美元後 , 基因組被排序和出版 。
in 2003 , the final version was published , and they keep working on it .	在2003年 , 最後版本發表了 , 他們繼續努力 。
that was all done on a machine that looks like this .	這一切都在一台機器上完成了 。
it costs about a dollar for each base a very slow way of doing it .	每一塊花費一美元的成本是非常慢的 。
well folks , i'm here to tell you that the world has completely changed and none of you know about it .	嗯 , 我在這裡告訴各位 , 世界完全改變了 , 沒有人知道 。
so now what we do is we take a genome , we make maybe 50 copies of it , we cut all those copies up into little 50base reads , and then we sequence them , massively parallel .	現在 , 我們做的是基因組 , 我們將這些複製成五十個鹼基 , 然後我們將它們複製成小50的複製 , 然後我們將它們複製成小50的複製品 。
and then we bring that into software , and we reassemble it and we tell you what the story is .	接著 , 我們把這個軟體放進軟體 , 重新組合它 , 並告訴各位故事是什麼 。
and so just to give you a picture of what this looks like , the human genome project: 3 gigabases , right .	為了讓各位看一下這張圖片 , 人類基因組計畫:3gigabass 。
one run on one of these machines: 200 gigabases in a week .	其中一個在一個星期內 , 一個星期內有兩百個gigabs 。
and that 200 is going to change to 600 this summer , and there's no sign of this pace slowing .	今年夏天會改變到600年夏天 , 沒有任何徵兆會變慢 。
so the price of a base , to sequence a base , has fallen 100 million times .	所以 , 基礎的價格 , 基礎的價格低了一億倍 。
that's the equivalent of you filling up your car with gas in 1998 , waiting until 2011 , and now you can drive to jupiter and back twice .	等到2011年 , 等到2011年 , 現在你可以駕駛木星和火車 , 等到2011年 , 現在你可以駕駛到2011年 , 等到2011年 , 現在你可以駕駛木星 , 等到2011年 。
world population , pc placements , the archive of all the medical literature , moore's law , the old way of sequencing , and here's all the new stuff .	世界各地的人 , 衛生部門 , 所有的醫學文獻 , 摩爾定律 , 早期的法律 , 都是新東西 。
guys , this is a log scale ; you don't typically see lines that go up like that .	各位 , 看起來不太典型 , 看起來不像這樣 。
so the worldwide capacity to sequence human genomes is something like 50 , 000 to 100 , 000 human genomes this year .	所以 , 人類基因組的能力 , 每年有五萬到十萬個人類基因組 。
and we know this based on the machines that are being placed .	我們也知道 , 根據這些機器 , 已經被設置了 。
this is expected to double , triple or maybe quadruple year over year for the foreseeable future .	這種預期是兩倍、三倍 , 或四年之久 , 都有可能在過去一年 , 為可預測的未來 。
in fact , there's one lab in particular that represents 20 percent of all that capacity .	事實上 , 有一項實驗室特別代表20%的能力 。
it's called the beijing genomics institute .	叫做 " 北京基因組學研究 "
the chinese are absolutely winning this race to the new moon , by the way .	中國人完全贏得這場競賽的新月球 。
what does this mean for medicine ?	這對醫學有什麼意義 ?
so a woman is age 37 .	所以 , 女人是37歲 。
she presents with stage 2 estrogen receptorpositive breast cancer .	她有兩個雌性乳癌的乳癌 。
she is treated with surgery , chemotherapy and radiation .	她接受手術、化療和輻射 。
two years later , she comes back with stage three c ovarian cancer .	兩年後 , 她又回到了三個c卵巢癌 。
unfortunately , treated again with surgery and chemotherapy .	不幸的是 , 治療了手術和化療 。
she comes back three years later at age 42 with more ovarian cancer , more chemotherapy .	三年後 , 她回來了三年後 , 比較多的化療 , 更化療 。
six months later , she comes back with acute myeloid leukemia .	六個月後 , 她回來了血管白血病 。
she goes into respiratory failure and dies eight days later .	她進入呼吸器衰竭 , 死了八天 。
so first , the way in which this woman was treated , in as little as 10 years , will look like bloodletting .	首先 , 這種婦女被治療的方式 , 大約十年後 , 會看起來像血液 。
and it's because of people like my colleague , rick wilson , at the genome institute at washington university , who decided to take a look at this woman postmortem .	由於我同事 , 瑞克•威爾森在華盛頓大學的基因組研究中 , 決定要照顧這個女人的樣子 。
and he sequenced , he took skin cells , healthy skin , and cancerous bone marrow , and he sequenced the whole genomes of both of them in a couple of weeks , no big deal .	他做了序列 , 把所有的基因組組成兩個星期 , 完全沒有大量的基因組 。
and then he compared those two genomes in software , and what he found , among other things , was a deletion , a 2 , 000base deletion across three billion bases in a particular gene called tp53 .	接著 , 他把這兩種基因組合成一個特定的基因組 , 另外一個特定的基因叫做tp53 。
if you have this deleterious mutation in this gene , you're 90 percent likely to get cancer in your life .	如果你有這種特定的基因 , 你90%的可能罹患癌症 。
so unfortunately , this doesn't help this woman , but it does have severe , profound if you will , implications to her family .	不幸的是 , 這對她的家人沒有幫助 , 但它確實有嚴重、深深的影響 , 若你對她的家人有著深遠的影響 。
i mean , if they have the same mutation , and they get this genetic test , and they understand it , then they can go and get regular screens , and they can catch cancer early and potentially live a significantly longer life .	我的意思是 , 如果它們有相同的突變 , 牠們會得到基因檢測 , 牠們會發現 , 牠們有相同的突變 , 牠們會有同樣的突變 , 牠們會得到基因檢測 , 牠們會發現 , 牠們會有很長的壽命 。
let me introduce you now to the beery twins , diagnosed with cerebral palsy at the age of two .	讓我向各位介紹阿拉伯人的雙胞胎 , 診斷出在兩歲時被診斷出來 。
their mom is a very brave woman who didn't believe that the symptoms weren't matching up , and through some heroic efforts and a lot of internet searching , she was able to convince the medical community that , in fact , they had something else .	他們媽媽是個很勇敢的女人 , 不相信這些症狀不在乎 , 透過一些英雄和很多網路搜尋 , 她說服了醫學界 , 實際上他們有其他東西 。
what they had was doparesponsive dystonia .	他們所做的是負責任意的動作 。
and so they were given ldopa , and their symptoms did improve , but they weren't totally asymptomatic .	所以他們給了dopa , 他們的症狀已經改善了 , 但它們並沒有完全符合 。
turns out the gentleman in this picture is a guy named joe beery , who was lucky enough to be the cio of a company called life technologies .	這張照片中有一位叫jebeery的傢伙 , 他很幸運能成為一家叫做 「 生命科技 」 的公司 。
they're one of the two companies that makes these massive whole genome sequencing tools .	他們是兩家公司之一 , 讓這些大型全部基因組定序工具 。
and so what he did was he got his kids sequenced .	所以他得到了他的孩子序列 。
and what they found was a series of mutations in a gene called spr , which is responsible for producing serotonin , among other things .	他們發現一系列突變 , 叫做spr , 它是負責製造血清素的突變 。
so on top of ldopa , they gave these kids a serotonin precursor drug , and they're effectively normal now .	所以 , 在dopa , 他們給了這些孩子一個血清素的藥物 , 且它們現在很正常 。
guys , this would never have happened without whole genome sequencing .	人類 , 永遠不會發生任何基因組序列 。
and at the time this was a few years ago it cost $100 , 000 .	幾年前 , 它花費了十萬美金 。
today it's $10 , 000 . next year it's $1 , 000 .	今天是一萬美金 , 一千美元 。
the year after it's $100 , give or take a year .	一百年後 , 一年 , 或一年 。
that's how fast this is moving .	這就是快速移動的速度 。
so here's little nick likes batman and squirt guns .	這裡有個小小nick喜歡蝙蝠俠和松鼠 。
and it turns out nick shows up at the children's hospital with this distended belly like a famine victim .	結果發現 , 尼克在兒童醫院的情況下 , 會發現尼克在兒童的醫院中 , 會受到害怕的受害者 。
and it's not that he's not eating , it's that when he eats , his intestine basically opens up and feces spill out into his gut .	並不是說他不吃吃 , 他的腸子會被打開 , 吃到他的腸子 , 牠會被吃掉 。
so a hundred surgeries later , he looks at his mom and says , " mom , please pray for me . i'm in so much pain . "	一百次手術後 , 他看著他的媽媽說: 「 媽媽 , 請禱告我 , 我很痛苦 。 」
his pediatrician happens to have a background in clinical genetics and he has no idea what's going on , but he says , " let's get this kid's genome sequenced . "	他的小兒科醫師在臨床基因組序列上沒有點子 , 但他說: 「 讓我們來找這個孩子的基因組序列 。 」
and what they find is a singlepoint mutation in a gene responsible for controlling programmed cell death .	他們發現的是 , 一個基因責任控制程式細胞死亡的基因責任 。
so the theory is that he's having some immunological reaction to what's going on to the food essentially , and that's a natural reaction , which causes some programmed cell death .	所以理論是 , 他有一些免疫邏輯的反應 , 會造成某些免疫反應 , 導致某些細胞死亡 。
but the gene that regulates that down is broken .	但 , 規定的基因是破壞的 。
and so this informs , among other things , of course , a treatment for bone marrow transplant , which he undertakes .	所以 , 在其他方面 , 其它的治療 , 包括骨髓移植手術 , 他接受了骨髓移植 。
and after nine months of grueling recovery , he's now eating steak with a1 sauce .	九個月後 , 他現在吃了一塊牛仔褲 。
the prospect of using the genome as a universal diagnostic is upon us today .	使用基因組的普遍診斷方式是現今的我們 。
today , it's here .	今天 , 這裡是這樣 。
and what it means for all of us is that everybody in this room could live an extra five , 10 , 20 years just because of this one thing .	對於我們所有人來說 , 在這房間裡的每一個人都可以活得5、10、20年 , 因為這一件事 。
which is a fantastic story , unless you think about humanity's footprint on the planet and our ability to keep up food production .	這是一個很棒的故事 , 除非你考慮人類的足跡在地球上 , 除非你思考人類的足跡 , 除非你思考人類的足跡 , 除非你思考人類的足跡在地球上 , 除非你想想人類
so it turns out that the very same technology is also being used to grow new lines of corn , wheat , soybean and other crops that are highly tolerant of drought , of flood , of pests and pesticides .	事實證明 , 同樣的技術也被用來種植新的玉米、玉米、樹木、森林和殺蟲劑 。
now look , as long as we continue to increase the population , we're going to have to continue to grow and eat genetically modified foods , and that's the only position that i'll take today .	現在 , 只要我們繼續增加人口 , 我們必須繼續成長和吃基因改造食物 , 這是我今天唯一的位置 。
unless there's anybody in the audience that would like to volunteer to stop eating ?	除非在觀眾中有任何人願意自願自願停止吃 ?
none , not one .	沒有人 , 沒有人 。
this is a typewriter , a staple of every desktop for decades .	這是個字型 , 每個桌子的數十年 , 都要花上數十年 。
and in fact , the typewriter was essentially deleted by this thing .	事實上 , 打字機基本上是被這個東西所驅動的 。
and then more general versions of word processors came about .	更普遍的版本 , 叫做 「 處理器 」 。
but ultimately , it was a disruption on top of a disruption .	但最終 , 它是一種破壞的顛覆性 。
it was bob metcalfe inventing the ethernet and the connection of all these computers that fundamentally changed everything .	它是波布•金卡夫 , 發明了所有這些電腦的連結 , 完全改變了一切 。
and suddenly we had netscape , and we had yahoo and we had , indeed , the entire dotcom bubble .	突然間 , 我們有了yahoo , 我們有了yahoo , 我們有了yahoo , 我們還有yahoo , 我們有了yahoo 。
not to worry though , that was quickly rescued by the ipod , facebook and , indeed , angry birds .	不用擔心 , 那很快就被ipod、臉書、facebook , 以及 , 被ipod、facebook、以及、facebook、facebook , 和老兄弟所發起的 。
look , this is where we are today .	看看 , 這就是我們今天的樣子 。
this is the genomic revolution today . this is where we are .	這就是現今的基因革命 。 這是我們現在的樣子 。
so what i'd like you to consider is: what does it mean when these dots don't represent the individual bases of your genome , but they connect to genomes all across the planet ?	所以 , 我想請各位想想:這些點不是代表你的基因組的基礎 , 而是與基因組的基因組聯繫在一起 ?
so i just recently had to buy life insurance .	所以 , 我最近才買了保險 。
and i was required to answer: a . i have never had a genetic test , b . i've had one , here you go , and c . i've had one and i'm not telling .	我必須回答:我從未有過基因測試 。 我有一個人 , 沒有基因測試 。 我有一個人 , 沒有 。
thankfully , i was able to answer a , and i say that honestly in case my life insurance agent is listening .	謝天謝地 , 我很誠實地說 , 老實說 , 我的人生保險機構正在傾聽 。
but what would have happened if i had said c ?	但如果我說c , 會發生什麼事 ?
consumer applications for genomics , they will flourish .	消費者應用程式給基因組 , 他們會繁榮 。
do you want to see whether you're genetically compatible with your girlfriend ? sure .	你想知道你是否和你的女友結婚 ? 當然 。
dna sequencing on your iphone ? there's an app for that .	dna序列在iphone上嗎 ? 有一個應用程式 。
personalized genomic massage anyone ?	個人化基因體是誰 ?
there's already a lab today that tests for allele 334 of the avpr1 gene , the socalled cheating gene .	今天已經有實驗室 , 測試了334個被稱為 「 乳酪基因 」 的實驗 , 稱為 「 乳酪基因 」 。
so anybody who's here today with your significant other , just turn over to them and swab their mouth , send it to the lab and you'll know for sure .	所以 , 今天這裡的任何人 , 都跟你很明確地說 , 把他們的嘴巴送到實驗室裡 , 你就會知道 。
do you really want to elect a president whose genome suggests cardiomyopathy ?	你真的想要選總統的基因組建議嗎 ?
now think of it , it's 2016 and the leading candidate releases not only her four years of back tax returns , but also her personal genome .	想想看 , 它是2016年的領導候選人 , 不只是她四年的收稅收入 , 還有她的個人基因組 。
and it looks really good .	看起來非常好 。
and then she challenges all of her competitors to do the same .	接著 , 她挑戰所有的競爭者都能做同樣的事 。
do you think that's not going to happen ?	你認為這不會發生嗎 ?
do you think it would have helped john mccain ?	你認為這會幫助約翰麥克卡嗎 ?
how many people in the audience have the last name resnick like me ? raise your hand .	在座的觀眾中有多少人跟我舉手 ? 舉手 。
typically , there's one or two .	一般來說 , 有一兩種 。
so my father's father was one of 10 resnick brothers .	我爸爸是十名的父親 , 一位十歲的父親 。
they all hated each other .	他們都討厭彼此 。
and they all moved to different parts of the planet .	牠們都搬到不同的星球 。
so it's likely that i'm related to every resnick that i ever meet , but i don't know .	所以 , 基本上我所見到的每次會議 , 都跟我所見到的所有人都有關 , 但我不知道 。
but imagine if my genome were deidentified , sitting in software , and a third cousin's genome was also sitting there , and there was software that could compare these two and make these associations .	但想像一下 , 如果我的基因組被判斷在軟體中 , 第三個表兄弟的基因組也坐在軟體中 , 第三個表兄弟的基因組也坐在軟體上 , 可以比較這兩種組合的基因組 。
not hard to imagine . my company has software that does this right now .	不難想像 , 我的公司有軟體現在這樣做 。
and so imagine one more thing: that that software is able to ask both parties for mutual consents , " would you be willing to meet your third cousin ? "	所以 , 想像一下:那軟體可以用兩種方式來問兩方: 「 你願意去見你的第三個表兄嗎 ? 」
and if we both say yes , voila ! welcome to chromosomally linkedin .	如果我們兩者都說對 , 愛鸚斯坦 , 克林斯汀 。
now this is probably a good thing , right ?	這可能是好事 , 對吧 ?
you have bigger clan gatherings and so on .	你有更大的集體 , 等等 。
but maybe it's a bad thing as well .	但也許這也是個壞事 。
how many fathers in the room ? raise your hands .	房間裡有多少人 ? 舉手 。
okay , so experts think that one to three percent of you are not actually the father of your child .	好的 , 專家認為有1%到3%的人不是你的孩子的父親 。
look these genomes , these 23 chromosomes , they don't in any way represent the quality of our relationships or the nature of our society at least not yet .	看看這些基因組 , 23個染色體 , 它們沒有任何方式代表我們社會的品質和社會的品質 。
and like any new technology , it's really in humanity's hands to wield it for the betterment of mankind , or not .	如同任何新科技一樣 , 人類的手掌握在人類的手上 , 以致於人類的手段 , 以致於人類的手段 。
and so i urge you all to wake up and to tune in and to influence the genomic revolution that's happening all around you .	所以 , 我鼓勵你們都醒來 , 來影響基因體革命 , 來影響你周遭的基因組革命 。
daniel kraft demos his marrow miner a new device that quickly harvests lifesaving bone marrow with minimal pain to the donor . he emphasizes that the adult stem cells found in bone marrow can be used to treat many terminal conditions , from parkinson's to heart disease .	丹尼爾•卡拉克拉夫•克拉克拉夫把他的骨髓移植成人的幹細胞發現骨髓可以被用來治療很多種類的疾病 , 從帕金森氏症 , 到愛滋病 。
biology , biotech , health , health care , medicine , science , technology	生物技術 , 健康照護 , 醫療 , 科學 , 科技 。
daniel kraft invents a better way to harvest bone marrow	danielkraft發明了一個更好的方法來收集骨髓 。
so i am a pediatric cancer doctor and stemcell researcher at stanford university where my clinical focus has been bone marrow transplantation .	所以 , 我是骨髓移植手術 , 我的臨床專注是骨髓移植手術 。
now , inspired by jill bolte taylor last year , i didn't bring a human brain , but i did bring a liter of bone marrow .	去年 , 我沒有帶領人類的腦袋 , 但我確實帶了一根骨髓 。
and bone marrow is actually what we use to save the lives of tens of thousands of patients , most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphoma and some other diseases .	而骨髓其實是我們用來拯救數萬名病人的成千上萬的病人 , 大部分有先進的乳腺癌患者 , 包括白血病和其他疾病 。
so , a few years ago , i'm doing my transplant fellowship at stanford .	所以 , 幾年前 , 我在史丹佛大學工作 。
i'm in the operating room . we have bob here , who is a volunteer donor .	我在手術室裡 , 我們有bob , 這是個志願捐贈者 。
we're sending his marrow across the country to save the life of a child with leukemia .	我們把他的排列送到整個國家 , 拯救了一名孩童白血病的生命 。
so actually how do we harvest this bone marrow ?	那麼 , 我們要如何收集這些骨髓呢 ?
well we have a whole o . r . team , general anesthesia , nurses , and another doctor across from me .	我們有一個全部的麻醉護士 , 另一位醫生來自我 。
bob's on the table , and we take this sort of small needle , you know , not too big .	bob在桌上 , 我們帶著這個小針 , 不太大 。
and the way we do this is we basically place this through the soft tissue , and kind of punch it into the hard bone , into the tuchus that's a technical term and aspirate about 10 mls of bone marrow out , each time , with a syringe .	我們所做的是基本上 , 透過軟組織組織 , 把這些軟組織放到硬骨頭上 , 每次 , 針對十個骨髓 , 每次都用鼻子 。
and hand it off to the nurse . she squirts it into a tin .	把牠帶到護士 , 把牠送到海裡 。
hands it back to me . and we do that again and again .	把我帶回來 , 我們再一次地做一次 。
about 200 times usually .	大約有200倍 。
and by the end of this my arm is sore , i've got a callus on my hand , let alone bob , whose rear end looks something more like this , like swiss cheese .	結束時 , 我的手臂很快 , 像瑞士起司一樣 , 像瑞士起司一樣 。
so i'm thinking , you know , this procedure hasn't changed in about 40 years .	所以我在想 , 你知道的 , 這個程序在四十年內沒有改變 。
and there is probably a better way to do this .	可能有更好的方法來做這件事 。
so i thought of a minimally invasive approach , and a new device that we call the marrow miner .	所以我想起一個最初的新裝置 , 我們稱之為 「 馬row礦工 」 。
and the marrow miner , the way it works is shown here .	排放的標題 , 其它的運作方式是呈現出來的 。
our standard seethrough patient .	我們標準的視角病患 。
instead of entering the bone dozens of times , we enter just once , into the front of the hip or the back of the hip .	不是進入幾十次的前面 , 而是進入前面 , 進入前面 , 再進入骨頭 。
and we have a flexible , powered catheter with a special wire loop tip that stays inside the crunchy part of the marrow and follows the contours of the hip , as it moves around .	我們有彈性、有彈性、有彈性、有彈性、有彈性的管子 , 繞著一個特定的線圈圈圈 , 繞著它移動 。
so it enables you to very rapidly aspirate , or suck out , rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole .	所以它可以讓你迅速地啟動 , 很快地穿過一個洞 , 很快地穿過一個洞 。
we can do multiple passes through that same entry .	我們能多次通過同樣的道路 。
and , so , very quickly , bob can just get one puncture , local anesthesia , and do this harvest as an outpatient .	所以 , 很快的 , 波布只能得到一個刺激、當地麻醉劑 , 並且將它做成一種刺激 。
so i did a few prototypes . i got a small little grant at stanford .	所以我做了一些原型 。 我在史丹佛做了一些原型 。
and played around with this a little bit .	再加上一點點 。
and our team members developed this technology .	我們的團隊成員開發了這項技術 。
and eventually we got two large animals , and pig studies .	最後我們得到了兩個大動物和豬研究 。
and we found , to our surprise , that we not only got bone marrow out , but we got 10 times the stem cell activity in the marrow from the marrow miner , compared to the normal device .	我們發現 , 驚訝的是 , 我們發現 , 不只是骨髓 , 我們也得到骨髓 , 我們發現 , 比一般裝置的幹細胞活動 , 比一般裝置還高了十倍 。
this device was just fda approved in the last year .	這個裝置是fda在過去一年被用來買的 。
here is a live patient . you can see it following the flexible curves around .	這是個活病患者 , 你可以看到它跟著有彈性的曲線 。
there will be two passes here , in the same patient , from the same hole .	這裡有兩位在同一個病患 , 同一個病患 。
this was done under local anesthesia , as an outpatient .	由於當地麻醉劑量 , 作為一個專家 。
and we got , again , about three to six times more stem cells than the standard approach done on the same patient .	我們再次重複 , 比起標準方法在同一個病人身上的3到6倍 。
so why should you care ? bone marrow is a very rich source of adult stem cells .	為什麼你要關心 ? 骨髓是非常豐富的成年人幹細胞 。
you all know about embryonic stem cells .	你們都知道胚胎幹細胞 。
they've got great potential but haven't yet entered clinical trials .	他們有很大的潛力 , 但尚未進入臨床試驗 。
adult stem cells are throughout our body , including the bloodforming stem cells in our bone marrow , which we've been using as a form of stemcell therapy for over 40 years .	成人幹細胞在我們的身體中 , 包括血液的幹細胞 , 在我們的骨髓裡 , 包括我們骨髓裡的幹細胞 , 包括我們血幹細胞的幹細胞 , 包括我們在骨髓裡的幹細胞 , 包括我們血幹細胞的幹細胞 , 包括我們骨髓裡的幹細胞 , 我們已經使用了超過40年的幹細胞 。
in the last decade there's been an explosion of use of bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient's other diseases such as heart disease , vascular disease , orthopedics , tissue engineering , even in neurology to treat parkinson's and diabetes .	在過去十年間 , 針對帕金森和糖尿病產生的骨髓幹細胞治療病人的疾病 , 包括心臟疾病、血管疾病、血管疾病、組織工程 , 甚至神經治療帕金森氏症和糖尿病 。
we've just come out , we're commercializing , this year , generation 2 . 0 of the marrow miner .	我們剛剛出去 , 今年 , 我們在商業化 , 這一年 , 世代2.0.0.0.0 。
the hope is that this gets more stem cells out , which translates to better outcomes .	希望是 , 將更多的幹細胞轉化成更好的結果 。
it may encourage more people to sign up to be potential livesaving bone marrow donors .	它可能會鼓勵更多人去簽名 , 來拯救骨髓捐贈者 。
it may even enable you to bank your own marrow stem cells , when you're younger and healthier , to use in the future should you need it .	它甚至可以讓你銀行自己的幹細胞 , 當年輕人更健康 , 在未來應該需要它的時候 。
and ultimately and here's a picture of our bone marrow transplant survivors , who come together for a reunion each year at stanford .	最後 , 這是我們骨髓移植倖存者的照片 , 每年都在史丹福大學 。
hopefully this technology will let us have more of these survivors in the future .	希望這科技能讓我們有更多的倖存者 。
physicist and surfer garrett lisi presents a controversial new model of the universe that just maybe answers all the big questions . if nothing else , it's the most beautiful 8dimensional model of elementary particles and forces you've ever seen .	物理學家和弗雷特•雷特雷特提出了一項爭議宇宙的新模型 , 它是最美麗的新模型 , 可以回答所有大問題 。 如果沒有其他 , 它是最美麗的新模型 , 它是你所見過最美麗的新模型 。
physics , science , technology	物理 , 科學 , 科技 。
garrett lisi on his theory of everything	在他的理論上 , 他理論上所有東西的理論 。
whoa , dude . check out those killer equations . sweet .	喔 , 去看那些殺人的方程式 。 甜點 。
actually , for the next 18 minutes i'm going to do the best i can to describe the beauty of particle physics without equations .	接下來的18分鐘 , 我會盡力去描述美麗粒子物理學的美麗 。
it turns out there's a lot we can learn from coral .	結果發現 , 有很多我們可以從珊瑚身上學到的東西 。
coral is a very beautiful and unusual animal .	珊瑚是非常美麗且不尋常的動物 。
each coral head consists of thousand of individual polyps .	每個珊瑚頭上都有數千個獨立的個體 。
these polyps are continually budding and branching into genetically identical neighbors .	這些池子會不斷突破並分裂成基因相同的鄰居 。
if we imagine this to be a hyperintelligent coral , we can single out an individual and ask him a reasonable question .	假如我們想像這是個超級聰明的珊瑚 , 我們就能單獨地問一個問題 , 問他一個合理的問題 。
we can ask how exactly he got to be in this particular location compared to his neighbors if it was just chance , or destiny , or what ?	我們能問他在這個特定位置的位置 , 跟他的鄰居如果只是機會 , 或命運 , 又或者什麼 ?
now , after admonishing us for turning the temperature up too high , he would tell us that our question was completely stupid .	為了讓溫度升高 , 他會告訴我們 , 我們的問題完全愚蠢 。
these corals can be quite kind of mean , you see , and i have surfing scars to prove that .	這些珊瑚可能是很有意思的 , 你看到 , 我衝擊了這些珊瑚 。
but this polyp would continue and tell us that his neighbors were quite clearly identical copies of him .	但這會持續告訴我們 , 他的鄰居是非常明顯的複製品 。
that he was in all these other locations as well , but experiencing them as separate individuals .	他在其他的位置也一樣 , 但在其他的位置中 , 卻是不同的人 。
for a coral , branching into different copies is the most natural thing in the world .	對珊瑚而言 , 分裂成不同的複製品是世界上最自然的東西 。
unlike us , a hyperintelligent coral would be uniquely prepared to understand quantum mechanics .	不像我們 , 一個超聰明的珊瑚會獨特地準備了解量子力學 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics very accurately describes how our universe works .	量子力學的數學量子力學非常準確地描述宇宙是如何運作的 。
and it tells us our reality is continually branching into different possibilities , just like a coral .	它告訴我們 , 我們的現實持續分裂成不同的可能性 , 就像珊瑚一樣 。
it's a weird thing for us humans to wrap our minds around , since we only ever get to experience one possibility .	對我們來說 , 人類很奇怪 , 因為我們只能經歷一個可能性 。
this quantum weirdness was first described by erwin schrödinger and his cat .	這種量子怪異 , 是由erwinschrodinger和他的貓所做的 。
the cat likes this version better .	貓喜歡這個版本 。
in this setup , schrödinger is in a box with a radioactive sample that , by the laws of quantum mechanics , branches into a state in which it is radiated and a state in which it is not .	在這個設備中 , schrodinger在一個放射性的樣本中 , 由量子力學的原子組成 , 它被放射性 , 由量子力學的原子組成 , 讓它被放射到一個狀態 。
in the branch in which the sample radiates , it sets off a trigger that releases poison and schrödinger is dead .	在這個樣本的輻射中 , 釋放毒素和schrdinger已經死了 。
but in the other branch of reality , he remains alive .	但在其他的現實中 , 他仍然活著 。
these realities are experienced separately by each individual .	這些真正的體驗 , 都是每個人的體驗 。
as far as either can tell , the other one doesn't exist .	如同所知 , 另一種不存在 。
this seems weird to us , because each of us only experiences an individual existence , and we don't get to see other branches .	這對我們來說很奇怪 , 因為每個人都只經歷一個獨立存在 , 我們不會看到其他的分支 。
it's as if each of us , like schrödinger here , are a kind of coral branching into different possibilities .	像我們一樣 , 像schrodschrodinger在這裡 , 是一種珊瑚會分裂成不同的可能性 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics tells us this is how the world works at tiny scales .	量子力學的數學量子力學告訴我們這個世界是如何運作的
it can be summed up in a single sentence: everything that can happen , does .	它可以在單一句子中出現:所有事情都可以發生 。
but this does not mean everything happens .	但這並不意味著一切發生 。
the rest of physics is about describing what can happen and what can't .	物理學的描述是關於描述事情發生什麼事 , 什麼也不能 。
what physics tells us is that everything comes down to geometry and the interactions of elementary particles .	物理告訴我們 , 一切都經過幾何和粒子的互動 。
and things can happen only if these interactions are perfectly balanced .	如果這些互動是完美的平衡 , 就會發生 。
now i'll go ahead and describe how we know about these particles , what they are and how this balance works .	現在我來談談我們對這些粒子的了解 , 以及平衡如何運作 。
in this machine , a beam of protons and antiprotons are accelerated to near the speed of light and brought together in a collision , producing a burst of pure energy .	在這個機器中 , 質子和反射光的聚集在一起 , 形成了爆炸的能量 。
this energy is immediately converted into a spray of subatomic particles , with detectors and computers used to figure out their properties .	這種能量馬上被轉換成一種原子粒子粒子 , 偵測器和電腦用來找出它們的特性 。
this enormous machine the large hadron collider at cern in geneva has a circumference of 17 miles and , when it's operating , draws five times as much power as the city of monterey .	這種巨大的機器大型強大的撞擊器在自行車的大型強子撞擊中有17英里長 , 當它運作時 , 將五倍的大型強大的撞擊器在洛杉磯的大型強暴 。
we can't predict specifically what particles will be produced in any individual collision .	我們無法預測特定的粒子會在任何一個撞擊中產生什麼 。
quantum mechanics tells us all possibilities are realized .	量子力學告訴我們所有可能性 。
but physics does tell us what particles can be produced .	但物理學告訴我們粒子能產生什麼 。
these particles must have just as much mass and energy as is carried in by the proton and antiproton .	這些粒子的質量和能量是被質量和能量所組成的 。
any particles more massive than this energy limit aren't produced , and remain invisible to us .	任何粒子比這個能源限制還不夠大 , 我們也不會產生 。
this is why this new particle accelerator is so exciting .	這就是為什麼新粒子加速器很令人興奮 。
it's going to push this energy limit seven times beyond what's ever been done before , so we're going to get to see some new particles very soon .	它將能量限制七倍之外 , 這樣我們才能看到一些新的粒子 。
but before talking about what we might see , let me describe the particles we already know of .	但在談到之前我們已經知道的粒子 。
there's a whole zoo of subatomic particles .	這裡有一大堆原子粒子 。
most of us are familiar with electrons .	我們大部分人都熟悉電子 。
a lot of people in this room make a good living pushing them around .	在這房間裡的很多人都很擅長推動他們 。
but the electron also has a neutral partner called the neutrino , with no electric charge and a very tiny mass .	電荷和一個中央的粒子叫做中央粒子 , 沒有電荷和非常小的質量 。
in contrast , the upanddown quarks have very large masses , and combine in threes to make the protons and neutrons inside atoms .	相較之下 , 原子中有很大的質量和中子在原子中 , 會產生質子和中子 。
all of these matter particles come in left and righthanded varieties , and have antiparticle partners that carry opposite charges .	所有這些物質粒子都在左右和右撇子 , 而有反粒子的左派和右手 。
these familiar particles also have less familiar second and third generations , which have the same charges as the first but have much higher masses .	這些熟悉的粒子也比較不熟悉第二代和第三代代代 , 相同的載荷是相同的首次 , 但有較高的質量 。
these matter particles all interact with the various force particles .	這些物質粒子和各種粒子相互作用 。
the electromagnetic force interacts with electrically charged matter via particles called photons .	電磁力電磁力與電磁力互動 , 由粒子稱為光子 。
there is also a very weak force called , rather unimaginatively , the weak force , that interacts only with lefthanded matter .	還有一種非常弱的力量 , 這種弱勢力 , 與左撇子之間的互動 。
the strong force acts between quarks which carry a different kind of charge , called color charge , and come in three different varieties: red , green and blue .	夸克之間的強大力力會引起不同的分別:紅色、綠色和藍色
you can blame murray gellmann for these names they're his fault .	你可以怪罪murraygellmann , 這些名字是他的錯 。
finally , there's the force of gravity , which interacts with matter via its mass and spin .	最後 , 重力的作用是重力的作用 , 它的質量和旋轉 。
the most important thing to understand here is that there's a different kind of charge associated with each of these forces .	最重要的是 , 要了解這裡有不同的指控和所有這些力量有關 。
these four different forces interact with matter according to the corresponding charges that each particle has .	這四種不同的力量與物質相互作用 , 指導每個粒子的每一個粒子都有 。
a particle that hasn't been seen yet , but we're pretty sure exists , is the higgs particle , which gives masses to all these other particles .	未曾見過過的粒子 , 但我們確保存在 , 粒子是希格斯粒子 , 將質量帶到其他粒子 。
the main purpose of the large hadron collider is to see this higgs particle , and we're almost certain it will .	大型強子撞擊器的主要目的是要看到希格斯粒子 , 我們幾乎一定會這麼做 。
but the greatest mystery is what else we might see .	但最偉大的謎就是我們所看到的 。
and i'm going to show you one beautiful possibility towards the end of this talk .	我將展示一個美麗的可能性 , 在這個演講結束時 。
now , if we count up all these different particles using their various spins and charges , there are 226 .	現在 , 如果我們把這些不同的粒子用在不同的粒子上 , 用它們不同的粒子和載荷 , 有226 。
that's a lot of particles to keep track of .	有很多粒子會繼續追蹤 。
and it seems strange that nature would have so many elementary particles .	似乎很奇怪 , 自然會有這麼多的基本粒子 。
but if we plot them out according to their charges , some beautiful patterns emerge .	但如果我們把它們排列出來 , 有些美麗的模式就會出現 。
the most familiar charge is electric charge .	最熟悉的電荷是電荷 。
electrons have an electric charge , a negative one , and quarks have electric charges in thirds .	電子有電荷 , 電荷是三分之一的電荷 。
so when two up quarks and a down quark are combined to make a proton , it has a total electric charge of plus one .	所以 , 當兩個夸克和夸克被組成一個質子時 , 它會產生一個質子 。
these particles also have antiparticles , which have opposite charges .	這些粒子也有反粒子 , 相反的粒子 。
now , it turns out the electric charge is actually a combination of two other charges: hypercharge and weak charge .	實際上 , 電荷是由兩種組合組合:hypercharge和弱荷 。
if we spread out the hypercharge and weak charge and plot the charges of particles in this twodimensional charge space , the electric charge is where these particles sit along the vertical direction .	如果我們把這些粒子放在這個二維空間的電荷中 , 電荷就是這些粒子在垂直方向上 。
the electromagnetic and weak forces interact with matter according to their hypercharge and weak charge , which make this pattern .	電磁力和弱力和弱力相互作用 , 製造出這種模式 。
this is called the unified electroweak model , and it was put together back in 1967 .	這叫做 「 未知的電力模型 」 , 它在1967年出版 。
the reason most of us are only familiar with electric charge and not both of these is because of the higgs particle .	大部分人都只熟悉電荷 , 而不是因為希格斯粒子 。
the higgs , over here on the left , has a large mass and breaks the symmetry of this electroweak pattern .	希格斯在左邊有一個大大的質量並破壞對稱的對稱 。
it makes the weak force very weak by giving the weak particles a large mass .	它會產生弱勢力 , 讓弱勢力非常弱 , 讓弱勢力非常弱弱 , 讓弱勢力非常弱 。
since this massive higgs sits along the horizontal direction in this diagram , the photons of electromagnetism remain massless and interact with electric charge along the vertical direction in this charge space .	由於這張圖片中 , 光子電磁力很大 , 電磁力和電力的光子 , 不管是電磁體 , 都沒有質量的作用 。
so the electromagnetic and weak forces are described by this pattern of particle charges in twodimensional space .	所以電磁和弱力被描述在二維空間裡的電磁力和弱力 。
we can include the strong force by spreading out its two charge directions and plotting the charges of the force particles in quarks along these directions .	我們可以把強力的力量轉換成兩條載荷 , 引導引力粒子在這些方向的方向 。
the charges of all known particles can be plotted in a fourdimensional charge space , and projected down to two dimensions like this so we can see them .	所有知粒子的電荷都可以被放在四維空間的載荷空間中 , 這樣我們就能看見它們 。
whenever particles interact , nature keeps things in a perfect balance along all four of these charge directions .	只要粒子互相交互作用 , 自然會保持在完美平衡的平衡中 , 每一粒相互作用 , 大自然會持續在完美的平衡中 。
if a particle and an antiparticle collide , it creates a burst of energy and a total charge of zero in all four charge directions .	如果粒子和一粒子撞撞 , 它會產生能量 , 它在四個電荷中產生一股能量 。
at this point , anything can be created as long as it has the same energy and maintains a total charge of zero .	在這個時點 , 任何東西都能被創造出來 , 只要它有同樣的能量 , 並維持了零 。
for example , this weak force particle and its antiparticle can be created in a collision .	例如 , 這個弱勢力粒子和反粒子可以在撞擊中產生 。
in further interactions , the charges must always balance .	在更進一步的互動中 , 荷荷總是平衡 。
one of the weak particles could decay into an electron and an antineutrino , and these three still add to zero total charge .	其中一個弱粒子會撞到電子和中子 , 而這三個仍然加上了零 。
nature always keeps a perfect balance .	自然總是保持完美的平衡 。
so these patterns of charges are not just pretty .	所以這些電荷的模式不僅僅是如此 。
they tell us what interactions are allowed to happen .	他們告訴我們 , 互動是如何發生的 。
and we can rotate this charge space in four dimensions to get a better look at the strong interaction , which has this nice hexagonal symmetry .	在四維空間中 , 我們能將這個載荷空間轉換為四維空間 , 讓更好的視力互動 , 得到更好的對稱性 。
in a strong interaction , a strong force particle , such as this one , interacts with a colored quark , such as this green one , to give a quark with a different color charge this red one .	在一個強力的粒子中 , 例如綠色 , 用顏色的力粒子 , 例如這個綠色 , 用不同的顏色標示標準 , 例如這個綠色 , 一個強力粒子 。
and strong interactions are happening millions of times each second in every atom of our bodies , holding the atomic nuclei together .	強烈的互動會在我們體內的每一秒內 , 將原子核聚集在一起 。
but these four charges corresponding to three forces are not the end of the story .	但這四個主題對三種力量並不結尾 。
we can also include two more charges corresponding to the gravitational force .	我們也能包含兩次重力的引力力 。
when we include these , each matter particle has two different spin charges , spinup and spindown .	我們包括這些 , 每一個粒子有兩個不同的旋轉、旋轉和旋轉 。
so they all split , and give a nice pattern in sixdimensional charge space .	所以它們都分裂了 , 在六度空間中提供一個很好的模式 。
we can rotate this pattern in six dimensions , and see that it's quite pretty .	我們可以在六度空間中旋轉這個模式 , 看到它很漂亮 。
right now , this pattern matches our best current knowledge of how nature is built at the tiny scales of these elementary particles .	現在 , 這個模式將我們目前所知的知識大自然建立在微小的尺寸中 。
this is what we know for certain .	這是我們所知道的 。
some of these particles are at the very limit of what we've been able to reach with experiments .	有些粒子是極限的我們能夠達成實驗 。
from this pattern , we already know the particle physics of these tiny scales . the way the universe works with these tiny scales is very beautiful .	從這個模式中 , 我們已經知道粒子物理學 , 這些微小的尺寸非常美麗 。
but now i'm going to discuss some new and old ideas about things we don't know yet .	但現在我要討論一些新的和舊的想法我們不知道 。
we want to expand this pattern using mathematics alone , and see if we can get our hands on the whole enchilada .	我們想要擴展這個模式 , 使用數學 , 看看我們能否把這個模式使用數學 。
we want to find all the particles and forces that make a complete picture of our universe .	我們想要找到所有粒子和力量 , 來創造出我們宇宙的所有粒子和力量 。
and we want to use this picture to predict new particles that we'll see when experiments reach higher energies .	我們想要用這張圖來預測新粒子 , 來預測新粒子時 , 我們會看到實驗達到更高的能量 。
so there's an old idea in particle physics that this known pattern of charges , which is not very symmetric , could emerge from a more perfect pattern that gets broken similar to how the higgs particle breaks the electroweak pattern to give electromagnetism .	所以 , 在粒子物理學中有個古老的概念 , 叫做 「 粒子 」 的形狀 , 可以從更完美的模式中 , 和希格斯粒子分開 , 可以從更完美的模式中 , 變成電磁力 。
in order to do this , we need to introduce new forces with new charge directions .	為了做到這一點 , 我們需要介紹新的力量 , 來引導新方向 。
when we introduce a new direction , we get to guess what charges the particles have along this direction , and then we can rotate it in with the others .	當我們向新方向提出新方向時 , 我們猜測荷粒子在哪裡引導方向 , 我們猜測荷粒子在哪裡朝方向方向 , 我們猜測荷粒子在這個方向前進方向 。
if we guess wisely , we can construct the standard charges in six charge dimensions as a broken symmetry of this more perfect pattern in seven charge dimensions .	如果我們猜想 , 我們就能建構標準載荷 , 在六個載荷標準荷荷中 , 由七個荷荷維度所組成的對稱性 。
this particular choice corresponds to a grand unified theory introduced by pati and salam in 1973 .	在1973年 , 這個特定的選擇應對一個偉大的理論 , 由pati和salam在1973年所提出 。
when we look at this new unified pattern , we can see a couple of gaps where particles seem to be missing .	當我們看這個新的未知模式 , 我們可以看到一些差距 , 粒子似乎被誤解了 。
this is the way theories of unification work .	這是 「 科學研究 」 的理論 。
a physicist looks for larger , more symmetric patterns that include the established pattern as a subset .	物理學家看起來更大、更大、更多的對稱模式 , 包括建立模式的模式 , 包括建立模式 。
the larger pattern allows us to predict the existence of particles that have never been seen .	更大的模式讓我們能夠預測出存在粒子從未見過的存在 。
this unification model predicts the existence of these two new force particles , which should act a lot like the weak force , only weaker .	這個統計模型預測了存在於兩種新強力粒子的存在 , 它應該和弱勢力相互作用 , 更弱的力量 。
now we can rotate this set of charges in seven dimensions and consider an odd fact about the matter particles: the second and third generations of matter have exactly the same charges in sixdimensional charge space as the first generation .	現在我們可以在七維空間中旋轉 , 並考慮一粒子:第二和第三代 , 對於物質的基本粒子 , 第二和第三代 , 對於物質的基本粒子有相同的載荷 。
these particles are not uniquely identified by their six charges .	這些粒子並不獨特地被它們六個載荷所吸引 。
they sit on top of one another in the standard charge space .	他們坐在標準電荷空間的頂端 。
however , if we work in eightdimensional charge space , then we can assign unique new charges to each particle .	然而 , 若我們在八度空間中找到獨特的新載荷 , 那麼我們可以為每一個粒子產生獨特的新載荷 。
then we can spin these in eight dimensions , and see what the whole pattern looks like .	接著 , 我們可以在八度空間中旋轉 , 看看整個模式看起來是什麼樣子 。
here we can see the second and third generations of matter now related to the first generation by a symmetry called " triality . "	在這裡 , 我們可以看到第二和第三代 , 與第一代的對稱 , 相對稱作 「 試驗 」 。
this particular pattern of charges in eight dimensions is actually part of the most beautiful geometric structure in mathematics .	在八度空間中 , 實際上是數學中最美麗的幾何結構 。
it's a pattern of the largest exceptional lie group , e8 .	它是最大規模的典型運動團體 , 8 。
this lie group is a smooth , curved shape with 248 dimensions .	這個謊組是平滑的 , 彎曲的形狀有248維度 。
each point in this pattern corresponds to a symmetry of this very complex and beautiful shape .	在這個模式的對稱是非常複雜且美麗的形狀 。
one small part of this e8 shape can be used to describe the curved spacetime of einstein's general relativity , explaining gravity .	這個einsteinsteinsinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinsteinstein
together with quantum mechanics , the geometry of this shape could describe everything about how the universe works at the tiniest scales .	用量子力學 , 形狀的幾何形狀描述所有宇宙如何運作在最小的尺度上 。
the pattern of this shape living in eightdimensional charge space is exquisitely beautiful , and it summarizes thousands of possible interactions between these elementary particles , each of which is just a facet of this complicated shape .	這種形狀的形狀存在於八度空間中 , 這種複雜形狀的形狀是非常美麗的 , 它將數千種可能的互動 , 包括這些基本粒子之間的形狀 , 這種複雜形狀的形狀 。
as we spin it , we can see many of the other intricate patterns contained in this one .	當我們旋轉時 , 我們就能看見許多其他的細微的圖案被包含在這個 。
and with a particular rotation , we can look down through this pattern in eight dimensions along a symmetry axis and see all the particles at once .	透過這個旋轉 , 我們可以看到在八維空間中 , 有一個特定的旋轉 , 可以通過這個模式 , 通過這個模式 , 通過這個模式 , 通過這個模式 , 通過這個模式 , 通過這個模式 , 通過這個模式 , 通過這個模式 , 通過這個模式 , 以八維度的形狀 ,
it's a very beautiful object , and as with any unification , we can see some holes where new particles are required by this pattern .	這是個非常美麗的物體 , 只要我們看到一些洞 , 新粒子被這個模式所需要 。
there are 20 gaps where new particles should be , two of which have been filled by the patisalam particles .	新粒子有20個鴻溝 , 新粒子有20個落差 , 新粒子被稱為patisam粒子 。
from their location in this pattern , we know that these new particles should be scalar fields like the higgs particle , but have color charge and interact with the strong force .	在這個圖案中 , 我們知道這些新粒子會像希格斯粒子一樣 , 但有顏色和強力的力量 。
filling in these new particles completes this pattern , giving us the full e8 .	填滿這些新粒子 , 給予我們全部的新粒子 。
this e8 pattern has very deep mathematical roots .	這個e8模式有非常深的數學根源 。
it's considered by many to be the most beautiful structure in mathematics .	它被許多人認為是數學中最美麗的結構 。
it's a fantastic prospect that this object of great mathematical beauty could describe the truth of particle interactions at the smallest scales imaginable .	這是一個偉大的數學美麗可以描述真相與宇宙相互作用的真相 。
and this idea that nature is described by mathematics is not at all new .	大自然所描述的數學並不是全新的 。
in 1623 , galileo wrote this: " nature's grand book , which stands continually open to our gaze , is written in the language of mathematics .	在1623年 , 伽利略寫過: 「 大自然的書 , 已經被寫在數學的本質上 。
its characters are triangles , circles and other geometrical figures , without which it is humanly impossible to understand a single word of it ; without these , one is wandering around in a dark labyrinth . "	它的角色是三角形、圓形、圓圈和其他幾何形狀 , 不論是哪個字 , 都無法理解一個單字 , 而不用在黑暗的迷宮中 。 」
i believe this to be true , and i've tried to follow galileo's guidance in describing the mathematics of particle physics using only triangles , circles and other geometrical figures .	我相信這是正確的 , 我也試著跟伽利略論述數學粒子物理學的指導 , 只三角形、圓形、圓形和其他幾何形狀 。
of course , when other physicists and i actually work on this stuff , the mathematics can resemble a dark labyrinth .	當然 , 當其他物理學家和我一起工作時 , 數學可以組成一個黑暗的迷宮 。
but it's reassuring that at the heart of this mathematics is pure , beautiful geometry .	但這數學的心臟是純粹、美麗的幾何形狀 。
joined with quantum mechanics , this mathematics describes our universe as a growing e8 coral , with particles interacting at every location in all possible ways according to a beautiful pattern .	加入了量子力學 , 數學描述了我們的宇宙 , 形成了量子力學 , 數學描述了宇宙 , 形成了量子力學 , 數學描述了我們宇宙的成長 , 和量子力學 , 這數學描述了我們宇宙的成長 , 和量子力學 , 這些數學可以描述宇宙 , 以一個美麗的形式呈現 。
and as more of the pattern comes into view using new machines like the large hadron collider , we may be able to see whether nature uses this e8 pattern or a different one .	隨著更多的圖形出現在使用新的機器 , 像是大型強子撞擊機 , 我們可能可以看見大型強子碰撞機的大型強子對撞機 。
this process of discovery is a wonderful adventure to be involved in .	這個過程發現的是一個很棒的冒險 。
if the lhc finds particles that fit this e8 pattern , that will be very , very cool .	如果lhc找到粒子 , 這會非常非常酷 。
if the lhc finds new particles , but they don't fit this pattern well , that will be very interesting , but bad for this e8 theory .	如果lhc發現新粒子 , 但它們不符合這個模式 , 很有趣 , 但不符合這個模式 , 那會非常有趣 , 但不符合這個模式 , 那會非常有趣 , 但不符合這個模式 。
and , of course , bad for me personally .	當然 , 對我個人來說是很糟糕的 。
now how bad would that be ?	那麼 , 那會是多麼糟糕 ?
well , pretty bad .	嗯 , 很糟 。
but predicting how nature works is a very risky game .	但 , 預測自然的運作是非常危險的遊戲 。
this theory and others like it are long shots .	這個理論和其他類似的 , 都是長期的 。
one does a lot of hard work knowing that most of these ideas probably won't end up being true about nature .	許多努力工作都知道大部分這些想法可能不會終止對自然 。
that's what doing theoretical physics is like: there are a lot of wipeouts .	這就是理論物理學的理論 , 像是:有很多種子 。
in this regard , new physics theories are a lot like startup companies .	在這方面 , 新的物理理論和新型公司一樣 。
as with any large investment , it can be emotionally difficult to abandon a line of research when it isn't working out .	只要有大量的投資 , 就會感到難以放棄一系列的研究 , 不論是怎麼做 。
but in science , if something isn't working , you have to toss it out and try something else .	但在科學上 , 如果沒有工作 , 你就得要去嘗試其他東西 。
now , the only way to maintain sanity and achieve happiness in the midst of this uncertainty is to keep balance and perspective in life .	現在 , 唯一能維持保健和不確定性的方法是保持保持和觀點 , 才能保持健康和觀點 。
i've tried the best i can to live a balanced life .	我嘗試過最好的我能活平衡的生活 。
i try to balance my life equally between physics , love and surfing my own three charge directions .	我試著平衡我的生命 , 和我自己的三個載荷方向 。
this way , even if the physics i work on comes to nothing , i still know i've lived a good life .	即便如此 , 即使我所研究的物理學也沒有 , 我仍然知道我已經活過了好的生活 。
and i try to live in beautiful places .	我試著住在美麗的地方 。
for most of the past ten years i've lived on the island of maui , a very beautiful place .	過去十多年來 , 我住在maui的土地上 , 非常美麗的地方 。
now it's one of the greatest mysteries in the universe to my parents how i managed to survive all that time without engaging in anything resembling fulltime employment .	現在 , 這是我最偉大的神秘之一 , 是我的父母 , 如何在所有時間都沒有參與到任何事業中 , 都沒有參與任何事 。
i'm going to let you in on that secret .	我要讓你們看這個秘密 。
this was a view from my home office on maui .	這是我家在maui的景觀 。
and you may have noticed that these beautiful views are similar , but in slightly different places .	你可能注意到這些美麗的觀點相似 , 但有些不同的地方 。
that's because this used to be my home and office on maui .	這是因為以前我家和辦公室在maui 。
i've chosen a very unusual life .	我選擇了一個非常不尋常的生活 。
but not worrying about rent allowed me to spend my time doing what i love .	但不擔心租容讓我花時間去做我愛的事 。
living a nomadic existence has been hard at times , but it's allowed me to live in beautiful places and keep a balance in my life that i've been happy with .	生活在美麗的地方 , 並且保持平衡 , 生活在美麗的地方 , 讓我生活在美麗的地方 , 並且保持平衡 , 生活在我很快樂的地方 。
it allows me to spend a lot of my time hanging out with hyperintelligent coral .	它讓我花了很多時間 , 用超聰明的珊瑚來做這件事 。
but i also greatly enjoy the company of hyperintelligent people .	但我也很享受公司的超級智慧人 。
so i'm very happy to have been invited here to ted .	我很高興被邀請這裡來ted 。
chris anderson: i probably understood two percent of that , but i still absolutely loved it . so i'm going to sound dumb .	克里斯•安德森:我大概有百分之二的兩部分 , 但我仍然絕對愛它 。 所以我要聽起來 。
your theory of everything garrett lisi: i'm used to coral .	你的理論是:我以前珊瑚 。
ca: that's right . the reason it's got a few people at least excited is because , if you're right , it brings gravity and quantum theory together .	克里斯:那是對的 , 引力和量子理論是合理的 。
so are you saying that we should think of the universe , at its heart that the smallest things that there are , are somehow an e8 object of possibility ?	所以你說我們應該考慮宇宙 , 心中最小的部分是 , 宇宙中最小的事物 , 應該要考慮宇宙 。
i mean , is there a scale to it , at the smallest scale , or . . . ?	我的意思是 , 最小規模的規模 , 還是......
gl: well , right now the pattern i showed you that corresponds to what we know about elementary particle physics that already corresponds to a very beautiful shape .	格爾:嗯 , 現在我展示給你們看的圖案 , 對於我們所知的基本粒子物理學 , 已經對應到一個非常美麗的形狀 。
and that's the one that i said we knew for certain .	那就是我說我們知道的 。
and that shape has remarkable similarities and the way it fits into this e8 pattern could be the rest of the picture .	這種形狀有很大的相似性 , 這種形狀有了很大的相似性 , 和它的形狀有著相似的樣子 , 可以是其他的圖像 。
and these patterns of points that i've shown for you actually represent symmetries of this highdimensional object that would be warping and moving and dancing over the space time that we experience .	我所展示的這些圖案 , 顯示的是這個高度物體的對稱性 , 會在我們體驗的過程中移動和跳舞 。
and that would be what explains all these elementary particles that we see .	這就解釋了我們所看到的所有粒子 。
ca: but a string theorist , as i understand it , explains electrons in terms of much smaller strings vibrating i know you don't like string theory vibrating inside it .	克里斯:但是弦弦理論 , 我知道你不喜歡弦弦理論 , 來解釋電子 。
how should we think of an electron in relation to e8 ?	我們該如何把電子關聯到八點 ?
gl: no , it would be one of the symmetries of this e8 shape .	格爾:不 , 它會是這八種形狀的對稱性 。
so what's happening is , as the shape is moving over spacetime , it's twisting . and the direction it's twisting as it moves is what particle we see . so it would be ca: the size of the e8 shape , how does that relate to the electron ?	所以 , 發生的狀況是 , 當它的形狀在移動時 , 它是扭曲的 , 隨著它的移動 , 我們會看到它的形狀 , 它的形狀在移動 , 直到我們看到的形狀 , 它會被扭曲 , 直到我們看到的大小 , 會是: 「 電子 」 的形狀有多大 ?
i kind of feel like i need that for my picture .	我覺得我需要這張照片 。
is it bigger ? is it smaller ?	變大了嗎 ? 比較小嗎 ?
gl: well , as far as we know electrons are point particles , so this would be going down to the smallest possible scales .	格爾:嗯 , 目前我們知道電子是粒子 , 所以這將會降低到最小的尺寸 。
so the way these things are explained in quantum field theory is , all possibilities are expanding and developing at once .	所以在量子領域理論上 , 所有可能性正在擴展並發展 。
and this is why i use the analogy to coral .	這就是為什麼我用分析來珊瑚 。
and in this way , the way that e8 comes in is it will be as a shape that's attached at each point in spacetime .	順道一提 , 它將成為一個形狀 , 在每一秒鐘 , 每次的形狀都被排列在空間中 。
and , as i said , the way the shape twists the directional along which way the shape is twisting as it moves over this curved surface is what the elementary particles are , themselves .	如同我所說的 , 形狀的形狀一直在扭曲的表面 , 形狀的形狀直到這曲線表面 , 形狀是如何形成的形狀 。
so through quantum field theory , they manifest themselves as points and interact that way .	所以透過量子場理論 , 他們將自己視為特點和互動的方式 。
i don't know if i'll be able to make this any clearer .	我不知道我是否能讓這個更清楚 。
ca: it doesn't really matter .	克里斯:這並不重要 。
it's evoking a kind of sense of wonder , and i certainly want to understand more of this .	這會讓人感到奇怪 , 我肯定想要了解更多 。
but thank you so much for coming . that was absolutely fascinating .	但非常謝謝你來到這裡 。 這絕對是太棒了 。
the legendary chimpanzee researcher jane goodall talks about tacare and her other community projects , which help people in booming african towns live sidebyside with threatened animals .	黑猩猩和其他社區專案專案 , 協助當地居民居住的野生動物 , 和其它的社區計劃 。
africa , animals , biodiversity , environment , global issues , pollution , primates , science	非洲、動物、生物多樣性、環境、全球問題、污染、生物多樣性、環境、全球問題、污染、生物多樣性、環境、全球問題、污染、生物多樣性
jane goodall helps humans and animals live together	珍妮•哈拉爾幫助人類和動物一起生活 。
good afternoon , good evening , whatever .	午安 , 晚安 , 不管 。
we can go , jambo , guten abend , bonsoir , but we can also ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh .	我們可以去 , oooh , oooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh ,
that is the call that chimpanzees make before they go to sleep in the evening .	這就是黑猩猩在晚上睡覺時所做的 。
you hear it going from one side of the valley to the other , from one group of nests to the next .	你從一群的山谷到另一端 , 從一群巢穴到另一邊 。
and i want to pick up with my talk this evening from where zeray left off yesterday .	我想跟我談談這個晚上在昨天發生的 。
he was talking about this amazing , threeyearold australopithecine child , selam .	他談到這令人驚奇的三歲小孩 , 伊斯蘭 。
and we've also been hearing about the history , the family tree , of mankind through dna genetic profiling .	我們也聽過了人類的歷史 , 家族樹 , 從dna基因遺傳傳遞出來 。
and it was a paleontologist , the late louis leakey , who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees .	這是古生物學家 , 拉特•萊克勒 , 他在研究黑猩猩的路上 。
and it was pretty extraordinary , way back then .	在那之後 , 很不可思議的 。
it's kind of commonplace now , but his argument was because he'd been searching for the fossilized remains of early humans in africa .	現在他很常見 , 但他的論點是 , 因為他一直在非洲尋找人類的早期人類 。
and you can tell an awful lot about what those beings looked like from the fossils , from the shape of the muscle attachments , something about the way they lived from the various artifacts found with them .	你可以告訴很多關於那些從化石中從化石中從化石中從化石中從化石中從化石中從化石中從化石中從化石中從化石中學到的東西 。
but what about how they behaved ? that's what he wanted to know .	但他們怎麼做呢 ? 這就是他想要知道的 。
and of course , behavior doesn't fossilize .	當然 , 行為不會化化 。
he argued and it's now a fairly common theory that if we found behavior patterns similar or the same in our closest living relatives , the great apes , and humans today , then maybe those behaviors were present in the apelike , humanlike ancestor some seven million years ago .	他現在認為 , 人類的行為模式很普遍 , 如同我們親近親近親近親近親戚一樣 , 人類的祖先 , 大約七百萬年前 , 人類的祖先 , 和人類的祖先約七百萬年前 。
and therefore , perhaps we had brought those characteristics with us from that ancient , ancient past .	因此 , 也許我們從古老、古老、古老、古老、古老、古老、古老、古老、古老、古老、古老、古老、古老 。
well , if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution , you very often find people speculating about how early humans may have behaved , based on the behavior of chimpanzees .	嗯 , 如果你看看今天的教科書 , 人類進化的行為 , 你通常會發現人類演化的行為 , 通常會發現人類演化的行為 , 通常會發現人類演化的行為 。
they are more like us than any other living creature , and we've heard about that during this ted conference .	牠們比其他生物還多 , 我們在ted會議中聽到這個ted會議 。
so it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzees are so like us , in certain aspects of their behavior .	所以 , 依據我所說的 , 對於黑猩猩的行為來說 , 牠們的行為也很像我們 。
every chimpanzee has his or her own personality .	每個黑猩猩都有自己的個人性 。
of course , i gave them names . they can live to be 60 years or more , although we think most of them probably don't make it to 60 in the wild .	當然 , 我給他們名字 。 他們可以活到60歲 , 儘管我們認為大部分人可能不會讓它六十歲 。
mr . wurzel . the female has her first baby when she's 11 or 12 .	女先生 , 十二歲時 , 她的第一個寶寶在11或12歲 。
thereafter , she has one baby only every five or six years , a long period of childhood dependency when the child is nursing , sleeping with the mother at night , and riding on her back .	此外 , 她有一個寶寶 , 只有五到六年 , 每五或六年都很長一段時間 , 當孩子在照顧孩子時 , 媽媽在晚上睡著 , 並騎著她回來 。
and we believe that this long period of childhood is important for chimpanzees , just as it is for us , in relation to learning .	我們相信 , 對於黑猩猩來說 , 對於黑猩猩來說 , 對於黑猩猩來說 , 這很長一段時間對黑猩猩來說是很重要的 , 因為我們是對黑猩猩的學習 。
as the brain becomes ever more complex during evolution in different forms of animals , so we find that learning plays an ever more important role in an individual's life history .	隨著大腦在複雜的進化過程中更重要的角色 , 我們發現 , 學習在不同的形式中扮演著重要的角色 。
and young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do .	年輕的黑猩猩花了很多時間觀察牠們的生長 。
we know now that they're capable of imitating behaviors that they see .	我們現在知道牠們可以模仿行為的行為 。
and we believe that it's in this way that the different toolusing behaviors that have now been seen in all the different chimpanzee populations studied in africa how these are passed from one generation to the next , through observation , imitation and practice , so that we can describe these toolusing behaviors as primitive culture .	我們相信 , 這樣 , 我們相信 , 透過觀察、模仿和練習的行為 , 我們相信 , 透過觀察、模仿和練習的行為 , 我們就能描述這些工具的行為 , 成為原始文化 。
chimpanzees don't have a spoken language . we've talked about that .	黑猩猩沒有語言的語言 。 我們剛剛談到的 。
they do have a very rich repertoire of postures and gestures , many of which are similar , or even identical , to ours and formed in the same context . greeting chimpanzees embracing .	牠們有非常豐富的重複性和姿勢 , 許多相似 , 甚至是相同的姿勢 , 相似的 , 甚至在相同的情況下 , 相似的 , 甚至是相同的 , 相似的 , 甚至在相同的情況下 , 相似的 , 甚至是相同的 。
they also kiss , hold hands , pat one another on the back .	牠們也吻手 , 握手 , 把手放在後面 。
and they swagger and they throw rocks .	他們很瘋狂 , 搖搖搖滾 。
in chimpanzee society , we find many , many examples of compassion , precursors to love and true altruism .	在黑猩猩社會中 , 我們發現許多許多例子 , 同情心 , 愛和真實的利他主義 。
unfortunately , they , like us , have a dark side to their nature .	不幸的是 , 牠們就像我們一樣 , 牠們有黑暗的面向 。
they're capable of extreme brutality , even a kind of primitive war .	它們是極殘酷的 , 甚至是原始的戰爭 。
and these really aggressive behaviors , for the most part , are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group .	而這些真正的侵略性行為 , 通常是對鄰居社會團體的行為所造成的影響 。
they are very territorially aggressive .	它們是非常具侵略性的 。
chimpanzees , i believe , more than any other living creature , have helped us to understand that , after all , there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom .	黑猩猩 , 我相信 , 比任何其他生物都能幫助我們了解 , 人類和動物王國之間沒有共鳴 。
it's a very blurry line , and it's getting more blurry all the time as we make even more observations .	這是個非常模糊的路線 , 隨著我們做更多觀察 , 就會變得更模糊 。
the study that i began in 1960 is still continuing to this day .	我在1960年開始的研究 , 一直持續到今日 。
and these chimpanzees , living their complex social lives in the wild , have helped more than anything else to make us realize we are part of , and not separated from , the amazing animals with whom we share the planet .	這些黑猩猩 , 牠們的複雜社交生活在野外 , 使我們意識到我們是沒有分離的 , 和我們共享的地球的複雜社交生活 。
so it's pretty sad to find that chimpanzees , like so many other creatures around the world , are losing their habitats .	所以 , 要找到黑猩猩 , 像世界上許多其他生物一樣 , 都會失去棲息地 。
this is just one photograph from the air , and it shows you the forested highlands of gombe .	這張照片是從空氣中拍攝的 , 它給你展示森林的高地 。
and it was when i flew over the whole area , about 16 years ago , and realized that outside the park , this forest , which in 1960 had stretched almost unbroken along the eastern shore of lake tanganyika , which is where the tiny , 30squaremile gombe national park lies , that a question came to my mind .	當時我在六十年前 , 發現在公園的東方 , 那裡有個問題來到我腦海裡 , 一個問題在我腦海裡浮現了 , 大約16年前 , 當時我在公園的東岸邊緣 。
" how can we even try to save these famous chimpanzees , when the people living around the national park are struggling to survive ? "	「 我們要如何拯救這些有名的黑猩猩 , 當人們住在國家公園 , 才能拯救這些有名的黑猩猩 ? 」
more people are living there than the land could possibly support .	更多的人住在土地 , 可能支持不足 。
the numbers increased by refugees pouring in from burundi and over the lake from congo .	數量增加了來自土地的數量 , 和從巴基來的數字增加 。
and very poor people they couldn't afford to buy food from elsewhere .	非常貧窮的人他們無法負擔得起買食物 。
this led to a program , which we call tacare .	這導致了一個計畫 , 我們稱之為 「 tacare 」 。
it's a very holistic way of improving the lives of the people living in the villages around the park .	這是個非常有效的改善生活在公園的人們居住村莊 。
it started small with 12 villages . it's now in 24 .	它從12個村莊開始 , 現在是24歲 。
there isn't time to go into it , but it's including things like tree nurseries , methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded , almost desertlike land up in these mountains .	沒有時間去探究 , 但它包含了像樹木護士 , 幾乎沙漠的土地在這些山上 。
ways of controlling , preventing soil erosion .	控制、防止土壤消耗 。
ways of reclaiming overused farmland , so that within two years they can again be productive .	重新建構土地的農田 , 讓兩年內的恢復效率很高 。
working to help the villagers obtain fresh water from wells .	努力幫助村民從水中取得淡水 。
perhaps build some schoolrooms .	也許建造一些學校 。
most important of all , i believe , is working with small groups of women , providing them with opportunities for microcredit loans .	最重要的是 , 我相信 , 和小群的女性合作 , 提供他們機會 , 給微額貸款 。
and we've got , as is the case around the world , about 95 percent of all loans returned .	我們在全世界的情況下 , 大約有95%的貸款都被回收 。
empowering women , working with education , providing scholarships for girls so they can finish secondary school , in the clear understanding that , all around the world , as women's education improves , family size drops .	賦權婦女教育 , 提供獎學金 , 給女孩們 , 讓他們能夠完成第二次學 , 明白世界各地的女性教育 , 提供獎學金 , 給女孩們 , 讓他們能夠完成第二課 , 明白 , 世界各地的女性教育 , 提供獎學金 。
we provide information about family planning and about hiv/aids .	我們提供關於家庭規劃和愛滋病的資訊 。
and as a result of this program , something's happening for conservation .	由於這個計劃的結果 , 關於保育 , 事情發生了 。
what's happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages , instead of looking on us as a bunch of white people coming to study a whole bunch of monkeys and by the way , many of the staff are now tanzanian but when we began the tacare program , it was a tanzanian team going into the villages .	保育農民在24村居住的農民生活在這個村莊裡 , 而不是看著我們 , 一群白人來研究一大堆猴子 , 而當我們開始研究一系列的農民時 , 其實是坦尚尼亞人在這個村落裡工作 , 而不是看著我們 , 一群白人來研究一群白人 , 研究一大堆猴子 , 和現在坦尚尼亞人一起研究一群白人 , 研究一系列的農民 。
it was a tanzanian team talking to the villagers , asking what they were interested in .	它是坦尚尼亞的團隊和村民們談話 , 問他們對什麼感興趣 。
were they interested in conservation ? absolutely not .	他們對保育有興趣嗎 ? 絕對不是 。
they were interested in health ; they were interested in education .	他們對健康有興趣 , 他們對教育有興趣 。
and as time went on , and as their situation began to improve , they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation .	隨著時間進步 , 他們開始更了解關於保育的需求 。
they began to understand that as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees , so you've got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides .	他們開始了解 , 在山丘上高層的山丘是樹木 , 所以你有了很糟糕的土壤和泥土 。
today , we are developing what we call the greater gombe ecosystem .	現今 , 我們正在開發我們所謂的 「 更大的黃金球生態系統 」 。
this is an area way outside the national park , stretching out into all these very degraded lands .	這裡是國家公園 , 延伸到各國公園 , 延伸到所有這些非常破碎的土地 。
and as these villages have a better standard of life , they are actually agreeing to put between 10 percent and 20 percent of their land in the highlands aside , so that once again , as the trees grow back , the chimpanzees will have leafy corridors through which they can travel to interact as they must for genetic viability with other remnant groups outside the national park .	隨著這些村莊有更好的標準 , 他們真的同意將近10%到20%的土地留在公園裡 , 所以 , 再一次 , 樹木會長回來 , 黑猩猩會有更好的標準 , 牠們可以和其他獨立的土地在國家公園附近的土地進行互動 。
so tacare is a success .	所以tacare是成功 。
we're replicating it in other parts of africa , around other wilderness areas which are faced with extreme population pressure .	我們複製非洲其他地方 , 其它的區域 , 在非洲的其他地方 , 其他的區域 , 受到極端人口壓力 。
the problems in africa , however , as we've been discussing for the whole of these first couple of days of ted , are major problems .	然而 , 在非洲 , 我們一直在討論的 , 主要的問題是 , 幾天以來 , 都是主要的問題 。
there is a great deal of poverty .	貧窮很大 。
and when you get large numbers of people living in land that is not that fertile , particularly when you cut down trees , and you leave the soil open to the wind for erosion , as desperate populations cut down more and more trees , so that they can try and grow food for themselves and their families , what's going to happen ? something's got to give .	當你在土壤上大量居住時 , 絕大多數的人住在陸地上 , 沒有任何地方 , 特別是當你砍伐樹木 , 然後你離開土壤開放 , 讓土壤開放 , 尤其是當你砍伐樹木 , 然後你砍掉樹木 , 讓土壤開放 , 讓土壤開放 , 尤其是當你砍伐樹木 , 然後你砍伐樹木 , 使他們能為自己和家人提供食物 , 為他們自己和家人 , 要怎麼做 ?
and the other problems in not only africa , but the rest of the developing world and , indeed , everywhere what are we doing to our planet ?	另外一個問題 , 不只是非洲 , 而是發展中國家的其他地方 , 除了非洲 , 還有其他發展中國家的其他問題 , 除了非洲 , 還有其他發展中國家的其他問題 ?
you know , the famous scientist , e . o . wilson said that if every person on this planet attains the standard of living of the average european or american , we need three new planets .	各位知道 , 傑出的科學家 , 艾.威爾森說 , 如果在這個星球上每個人 , 都需要三個新的行星 , 我們就需要三個新的行星 。
today , they are saying four . but we don't have them . we've got one .	今天 , 他們說了四個 。 但我們沒有他們 。 我們有一個 。
and what's happened ? i mean , the question here is , here we are , arguably the most intelligent being that's ever walked planet earth , with this extraordinary brain , capable of the kind of technology that is so well illustrated by these ted conferences , and yet we're destroying the only home we have .	接下來發生了什麼事呢 ? 我是說 , 在這裡 , 我們是最有智慧的人 , 曾走過地球 , 有著這種非凡的大腦 , 可以用這種技術來解釋 , 來解釋我們所說的 , 最有智慧的 , 是地球上有史以來最聰明的 , 不管是哪裡 , 都能被這些ted會議所發揮 , 但我們卻摧毀了我們唯一的家園 。
the indigenous people around the world , before they made a major decision , used to sit around and ask themselves , " how does this decision affect our people seven generations ahead ? "	世界各地的原住民 , 在他們做了一個主要決策之前 , 坐著 , 問自己: 「 這種決定如何影響我們七代前的人 ? 」
today , major decisions and i'm not particularly talking about africa here , but the developed world major decisions involving millions of dollars , and millions of people , are often based on , " how will this affect the next shareholders' meeting ? "	今天 , 主要的決策 , 我並不特別談論非洲 , 但開發中國家主要的決策會影響下一個股東會議 , 數百萬人 , 通常是基於: 「 這會如何影響下一個股東的權利 ? 」
and these decisions affect africa .	這些決策影響非洲 。
as i began traveling around africa talking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests , i realized more and more how so many of africa's problems could be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation .	當我開始旅行非洲各地的問題 , 來到非洲的問題時 , 就會發現越來越多的非洲問題 , 如同我在非洲所遇到的問題 , 會被黑猩猩和它們消失的森林所吸引 。
so i began traveling outside africa , talking in europe , talking in the united states , going to asia .	所以我開始旅行非洲 , 談到歐洲 , 談話 , 在美國 , 進入亞洲 。
and everywhere there were these terrible problems .	到處都是這些可怕的問題 。
and you know the kind i'm talking about . i'm talking about pollution .	各位知道我在談的是污染 。
the air that we breathe that often poisons us .	我們呼吸的空氣 , 通常會毒害我們 。
the earth is poisoning our foods .	地球正在污染我們的食物 。
the water water is perhaps one of the most crucial issues that we're going to face in this century and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural , industrial and household chemicals that still are being sprayed around the world , seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience .	水水水可能是最關鍵的議題 , 我們在這個世紀和全世界都被污染的農業、工業和家庭的化學物質 , 都被污染、工業和家庭的化學物質 , 都被污染 , 被農業和家庭的化學物質 , 都被污染了 , 那些被農業和家庭的化學物質都被污染了 , 似乎是從過去經驗中獲得利益的 。
the mangroves are being cut down ; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse .	紅樹林被砍掉了 , 海嘯的效應變得更糟 。
we've talked about the soil erosion .	我們談過土壤問題 。
we have the reckless burning of fossil fuels along with other greenhouse gasses , so called , leading to climate change .	我們和其他溫室氣體的溫室氣體排放 , 導致氣候變遷 。
finally , all around the world , people have begun to believe that there is something going on very wrong with our climate .	最後 , 在世界各地 , 大家都開始相信 , 我們的氣候問題有很大的錯誤 。
all around the world climates are mixed up .	全世界的氣候都混合起來了 。
and it's the poor people who are affected worse .	貧窮的人會受到影響更糟 。
it's africa that already is affected .	非洲已經受到影響 。
in many parts of subsaharan africa , the droughts are so much worse .	在撒哈拉以南非洲的許多地區 , 乾旱變得更糟 。
and when the rain does come , it so often leads to flooding and added distress , and the cycle of poverty and hunger and disease .	當雨季來臨時 , 它通常會導致洪水、飢餓和疾病的循環 。
and the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support , who are too poor to buy food , who can't move away because the whole land is degraded .	居住在一個地區的人口數量 , 居住地點不足 , 無法支援 , 因為整塊土地被降低 。
and so you get desertification creeping , creeping , creeping as the last of the trees are cut down .	所以你會得到沙漠化 , 重覆 , 隨著樹木中的最後一棵樹被砍伐 。
and this kind of thing is not just in africa . it's all over the world .	這種東西不只是在非洲 , 而是世界各地 。
so it wasn't surprising to me that as i was traveling around the world i met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope .	所以 , 讓我驚訝的是 , 當我在世界各地旅行時 , 我遇到許多年輕人似乎失去希望 。
we seem to have lost wisdom , the wisdom of the indigenous people .	我們似乎失去了智慧 , 原住民的智慧 。
i asked a question . " why ? "	我問了一個問題: 「 為什麼 ? 」
well , do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain , the kind of brain that the ted technologies exemplify , and the human heart ? talking about it in the nonscientific term , in terms of love and compassion . is there some disconnect ?	嗯 , 你認為可能有某種差異的大腦 , 這種特別聰明的大腦 , ted技術的大腦 , 和同情心 , 說在非科學領域 , 愛和同情心 , 會有什麼差異 ?
and these young people , when i talk to them , basically they were either depressed or apathetic , or bitter and angry . and they said more or less the same thing , " we feel this way because we feel you've compromised our future and there's nothing we can do about it . "	這些年輕人 , 當我跟他們談話時 , 基本上就是他們對自己說 , 或同情、憤怒 , 和他們說話 , 不論是憂鬱 , 或同情戀 , 或同情 , 我們感覺到自己 , 是因為我們覺得你已經對它有所貢獻 。
we have compromised their future .	我們已經妥協了他們的未來 。
i've got three little grandchildren , and every time i look at them and i think how we've harmed this beautiful planet since i was their age , i feel this desperation .	我有三個小孫子 , 每當我看著他們時 , 我會覺得這個美麗的星球 , 每當我看著它們時 , 我會覺得這個美麗的星球 。
and that led to this program we call roots and shoots , which began right here in tanzania and has now spread to 97 countries around the world .	這個計畫引起了我們所謂羅根和槍擊的計畫 , 目前在坦尚尼亞已經擴散到全世界的97個國家 。
it's symbolic . roots make a firm foundation .	它是象徵性的 , 根源建立一個基金會 。
shoots seem tiny ; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall .	光子看起來很小 , 到太陽可以打破磚牆 。
see the brick wall as all these problems we've inflicted on the planet , environmental and social . it's a message of hope .	看看磚牆在地球上 , 環境和社會 , 這是希望的答案 。
hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things .	全世界的數十萬名年輕人都可以打破 , 讓這個世界更好的世界 。
the most important message of roots and shoots: every single one of us makes a difference , every single day .	根和芽的最重要訊息:每個人每一天都有改變 。
we have a choice . every one of us in this room , we have a choice as to what kind of difference we want to make .	我們有選擇 , 每個人在這個房間裡都有選擇 , 我們有選擇我們想要做些什麼 。
the very poor have no choice . it's up to us to change things so that the poor have choice as well .	窮人沒有選擇 。 它讓我們改變事物 , 讓窮人有選擇 。
the roots and shoots groups all choose three projects .	樹根和槍擊團體都選三個項目 。
it depends on how old they are , and which country , whether they're in a city or rural , as to what kinds of projects .	它取決於他們是哪個國家 , 無論是城市或鄉村 , 哪個國家都在城市或鄉村 。
but basically , we have programs now from preschool right through university , with more and more adults starting their own roots and shoots groups .	但基本上 , 我們的設計是從幼稚園到大學 , 有更多成年人開始自己的根源和槍枝 。
and every group chooses , between them , three different kinds of project to make this a better world , recognizing that all these different problems are interconnected and impinge on each other .	每個團體選擇 , 三種不同的問題 , 彼此之間互相連結 , 和彼此之間的聯繫 。
so one of their projects will be to help their own human community .	其中一項項目就是幫助他們自己的人類社區 。
and then , if they're able , they may raise money to help communities in other parts of the world .	然後 , 如果他們有能力 , 他們可能會募資金錢來幫助社區在世界各地 。
one of their projects will be to help animals not just wildlife , domestic animals as well .	其中一項項目是要幫助動物 , 不只是野生動物 , 也是動物 。
and one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share .	其中一個項目就是幫助我們所共享的環境 。
and woven throughout all of this is a message of learning to live in peace and harmony within ourselves , in our families , in our communities , between nations , between cultures , between religions and between us and the natural world .	最後 , 所有這些都是學習的訊息 , 在我們的家庭、社區、國家、文化之間、宗教之間 , 以及我們和自然世界之間的關係 。
we need the natural world . we cannot go on destroying it at the rate we are .	我們需要自然世界 。 我們不能破壞它的速度 。
we not do have more than this one planet .	我們不是一個星球 。
just picking one or two of the projects right here in africa that the roots and shoots groups are doing , one or two projects only in tanzania , in uganda , kenya , south africa , congobrazzaville , sierra leone , cameroon and other groups . and as i say , it's in 97 countries around the world .	只有在坦尚尼亞、南非、加拿大、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非、哥巴茲尼亞、南非 ,
of course , they're planting trees . they're growing organic vegetables .	當然 , 他們正在種植樹木 , 他們正在培養植物樹 。
they're working in the refugee camps , with chickens and selling the eggs for a little amount of money , or just using them to feed their families , and feeling a sense of pride and empowerment , because they're no longer helpless and depending on others with their vegetables and their chickens .	他們在難民營裡工作 , 用雞肉、雞肉、雞蛋 , 來餵養他們的家人 , 感到驕傲和強迫 , 因為他們不再無助 , 和雞隻雞蛋 。
it's being used in uganda to give some psychological help to exchild soldiers .	它被用在烏干達 , 給予一些心理協助 , 來給予一些心理協助 。
doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves .	做像這樣的計畫 , 把他們自己放出來 。
once again , they're useful members of society .	再一次 , 他們是有用的成員社會 。
we have this program in prisons as well .	我們在監獄裡也有這樣的計劃 。
so , there's no time for more roots and shoots now .	所以 , 沒有時間做更多根源和槍擊 。
but oh , they're also working on hiv/aids .	但 , 喔 , 他們也在愛滋病工作 。
that's a very important component of roots and shoots , with older kids talking to younger ones .	這是根和芽和槍枝的重要部分 , 隨著年齡較長的孩子們對年輕人說話 。
and unwanted pregnancies and things like that , which young people listen to better from other youth , rather than adults .	而非成年人 , 而非成年人 , 而非成年人 , 而非成人 , 而非成人 。
hope . that's the question i get asked as i'm going around the world: " jane , you've seen so many terrible things , you've seen your chimpanzees decrease in number from about one million , at the turn of the century , to no more than 150 , 000 now , and the same with so many other animals .	希望 , 這是我被問到的世界: 「 珍 , 你看過你見過過多糟糕的事 , 你看過你的黑猩猩從150 , 000歲 , 和其他動物一樣 。
forests disappearing , deserts where once there was forest .	森林消失了 , 沙漠曾經森林消失 。
do you really have hope ? " well , yes .	你真的有希望嗎 ? 」 嗯 , 是的 。
you can't come to a conference like ted and not have hope , can you ?	你不能參加ted的會議 , 沒有希望 , 可以嗎 ?
and of course , there's hope . one is this amazing human brain .	當然 , 也有希望 。 一個是人類的大腦 。
and i mean , think of the technologies .	想想看科技 。
and i've just been so thrilled , finally , to come to people talking about compost latrines .	我真的很興奮 , 最後 , 要來到大家談談史詩的歌曲 。
it's one of my hobbyhorses .	這是我其中的一份子 。
we just flush all this water down the lavatory , it's terrible .	我們只把這些水放到水裡 , 很糟糕 。
and then talking about renewable energy desperately important .	接著 , 談到再生能源是很重要的 。
do we care about the planet for our children ?	我們是否關心地球對我們的孩子 ?
how many of us have children or grandchildren , nieces , nephews ?	有多少人有孩子、孫子、姪女、姪子 ?
do we care about their future ?	我們關心他們的未來嗎 ?
and if we care about their future , we , as the elite around the world , we can do something about it . we can make choices as to how we live each day .	如果我們關心他們的未來 , 如同我們在世界各地做些什麼 , 我們可以做出選擇 , 如同我們每天生活的樣子 。
what we buy . what we wear .	我們買什麼 , 我們買什麼 , 我們穿什麼 。
and choose to make these choices with the question , how will this affect the environment around me ?	選擇要做出這些選擇 , 如何影響周圍環境的環境 ?
how will it affect the life of my child when he or she grows up ?	為什麼會影響我孩子的人生 , 或她長大後呢 ?
or my grandchild , or whatever it is .	或我的孫子 , 或其它 。
so the human brain , coupled with the human heart , and we join hands around the world .	所以 , 人類的大腦 , 和人類的心臟合作 , 我們加入世界各地 。
and that's what ted is helping so well with , and google who help us , and esri are helping us with mapping in gombe national park .	這也是ted的幫助 , 尤其是幫助我們 , 谷歌幫助我們 , 谷歌幫助我們 , 谷歌幫助我們 , 谷歌幫助我們 , 谷歌幫助我們 , 谷歌協助我們 , 谷歌幫助我們 。
all of these technologies we can use .	我們所能使用的科技 。
now let's link them , and it's beginning to happen , isn't it ?	現在讓我們連結起來 , 開始發生 , 不是嗎 ?
you've heard about it this afternoon . it's beginning to happen .	你們聽過這個下午了 , 開始發生 。
this change , this change . to see change that we must have if we care about the future .	這改變 , 改變 , 改變 , 改變 , 只要我們在乎未來 。
and the next reason for hope nature is amazingly resilient .	接下來的原因是 , 希望大自然的天性是很驚人的韌性 。
you can take an area that's absolutely destroyed , with time and perhaps some help it can regenerate .	你可以把一個區域完全被摧毀 , 或許有些幫助可以再生 。
and an example is the tacare program .	一個例子是tacare計畫 。
i told you , where a seemingly dead tree stump if you stop hacking them for firewood , which you don't need to because you have wood lots , then in five years you can have a 30foot tree .	我告訴各位 , 看似死掉的樹木 , 不需要因為你有木頭 , 然後在五年內你就會有三十英呎的樹木 。
and animals , almost on the brink of extinction , can be given a second chance . that's my next book .	而動物 , 幾乎在滅絕的邊緣 , 可以得到第二個機會 。 這是我的下一本書 。
it's inspiring . and it brings me to my last category of hope , and we've heard about this so much in the last two days: this indomitable human spirit . this determination of people , the resilience of the human spirit , so that people who you would think would be battered by poverty , or disease , or whatever , can pull themselves up out of it , sometimes with a helping hand , and take their part in society , and take their part in changing the world .	它啟發了我 , 最後的兩天之內 , 我們已經聽過這句話了 , 很有意思的是 , 人類精神的依據 , 那些你認為會被貧窮、疾病 , 或疾病所吸引的人 , 或疾病 , 或或疾病 , 或其它的力量 , 將他們帶走在過去的兩天之中 , 那些人的精神 , 那些你認為會被貧窮、疾病 , 或疾病所造成的人們 , 或疾病 , 或不管如何 , 都會被貧窮、或疾病 , 或疾病 , 或任何人 , 讓自己脫離 。
and just to think of one or two people out of africa who are just really inspiring .	想想看一下 , 或兩位非洲的人 , 真的很鼓舞人心 。
we could make a very long list , but obviously nelson mandela , emerging from 17 years of hard physical labor , 23 years of imprisonment , with this amazing ability to forgive , so that he could lead his nation out the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath .	我們能做出一個很長的清單 , 但很顯然 , 尼爾森•曼德拉在19歲的歷史上 , 被監禁的種族隔離 , 讓他能夠領導他的國家 , 除非血ba的23年 。
ken sarowiwa , in nigeria , who took on the giant oil companies , and although people around the world tried their best , was executed .	kensarowiwa , 在奈及利亞 , 在奈及利亞 , 全世界的大型石油公司都被執行了 。
people like this are so inspirational .	像這樣的人很激勵人心 。
people like this are the role models we need for young africans .	像這樣 , 我們需要年輕非洲人的榜樣 。
and we need some environmental role models as well , and i've been hearing some of them today .	我們需要一些環保的角色模型 , 我今天聽過一些 。
so i'm really grateful for this opportunity to share this message again , with everyone at ted .	所以 , 我非常感謝這個機會 , 可以分享這個訊息 , 和ted的每個人 。
and i hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things , especially the roots and shoots program .	我希望我們能聚集在一起 , 談論一些這些東西 , 特別是根部和槍擊計畫 。
and just a last word on that the young woman who's running this entire conference center , i met her today .	最後一個說 , 今天我遇見她的年輕女子 , 我遇見她 。
she came up so excited , with her certificate . she was [in] roots and shoots .	她很興奮 , 得到了她的證據 。 她是根和槍 。
she was in the leadership in dar es salaam .	她是達爾•薩拉姆的領導人 。
she said it's helped her to do what she's doing .	她說 , 協助她做她做的事 。
and it was very , very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people , when they are empowered , given the opportunity to take action , to make the world a better place , truly are our hope for tomorrow .	對我來說 , 非常令人興奮的是 , 希望明天 , 當她們被賦予權力時 , 有機會採取行動 , 讓世界變得更好 , 真正是我們希望明天 。
artist dianna cohen shares some tough truths about plastic pollution in the ocean and in our lives and some thoughts on how to free ourselves from the plastic gyre .	藝術家nacohen分享了一些關於塑膠污染的真相 , 關於塑膠污染的真相 , 以及我們生活中有一些關於塑膠污染的真相 。
consumerism , global issues , green , mission blue , oceans , plastic	消費主義、全球議題、綠色、藍色、海洋、塑膠 。
dianna cohen: tough truths about plastic pollution	狄安娜•柯林:粗糙的真相 , 關於塑膠污染 。
i'm a visual artist , and i'm also one of the cofounders of the plastic pollution coalition .	我是一個視覺藝術家 , 我也是其中一個充滿塑膠污染的協調 。
i've been working with plastic bags , which i cut up and sew back together as my primary material for my artwork for the last 20 years .	我和塑膠袋一起工作 , 將我和塑膠袋融合在一起 , 將我和塑膠袋結合在一起 , 將我與塑膠袋結合在一起 , 最後二十年來 。
i turn them into two and threedimensional pieces and sculptures and installations .	我把它們變成兩、三維的雕塑和裝置 。
upon working with the plastic , after about the first eight years , some of my work started to fissure and break down into smaller little bits of plastic .	大約八年後 , 我的工作開始分裂 , 變成小小的塑膠 。
and i thought , " great .	我心想: 「 太棒了 。
it's ephemeral just like us . "	它就像我們一樣 。 」
upon educating myself a little further about plastics , i actually realized this was a bad thing .	對於塑膠而言 , 我意識到這是個壞事 。
it's a bad thing that plastic breaks down into smaller little bits , because it's always still plastic .	塑膠會變得更小一點點 , 因為它總是仍然塑膠 。
and what we're finding is that a lot of it is in the marine environment .	我們發現 , 在海洋環境中 , 有很多東西在海洋環境中 。
i then , in the last few years , learned about the pacific garbage patch and the gyre .	在過去幾年 , 我了解了太平洋垃圾和gyre 。
and my initial reaction and i think this is a lot of people's first reaction to learning about it is , " oh my god !	我的第一個反應是 , 我想這是很多人對學習的第一個反應 , 就是 「 喔 ! 我的天啊 !
we've got to go out there and clean this thing up . "	我們必須去那裡和清潔這個東西 。 」
so i actually developed a proposal to go out with a cargo ship and two decommissioned fishing trawlers , a crane , a chipping machine and a coldmolding machine .	所以我真的開發了一個提議 , 要用一艘拖車、一艘船、一艘船 , 一艘船 , 一艘船 , 一台機器 , 和一台超級機器 。
and my intention was to go out to the gyre , raise awareness about this issue and begin to pick up the plastic , chip it into little bits and cold mold it into bricks that could potentially be used as building materials in underdeveloped communities .	我的意圖是 , 把塑膠拆開 , 把塑膠放進磚塊裡 , 把塑膠黏起來 , 把塑膠變成垃圾桶 , 把塑膠變成垃圾桶 , 把塑膠變成垃圾桶 , 把塑膠變成垃圾桶 , 變成磚塊 , 可能被用來建造材料在社區裡 。
i began talking with people who actually had been out to the gyre and were studying the plastic problem in the marine environment and upon doing so , i realized actually that cleaning it up would be a very small drop in the bucket relative to how much is being generated every day around the world , and that actually i needed to back up and look at the bigger picture .	我開始和當地人談話 , 實際上 , 每天都要在海洋環境中和研究塑膠問題 , 我了解 , 實際上 , 要回頭看更大的圖像 , 其實我需要回頭看看更大的圖片 。
and the bigger picture is: we need to find a way to turn off the faucet .	更大的照片是:我們需要找到一種方法來轉移假裝 。
we need to cut the spigot of singleuse and disposable plastics , which are entering the marine environment every day on a global scale .	我們需要切斷這些塑膠 , 每天在全球性的塑膠中 , 進入海洋環境中 。
so in looking at that , i also realized that i was really angry .	所以 , 我也了解到我真的很憤怒 。
i wasn't just concerned about plastic that you're trying to imagine out in the middle of the pacific ocean of which i have learned there are now 11 gyres , potentially , of plastic in five major oceans in the world .	我不擔心塑膠 , 可能是你在太平洋的塑膠上所看到的 , 現在我已經知道現在有11個塑膠 , 可能是全世界的塑膠 。
it's not just that gyre of plastic that i'm concerned about it's the gyre of plastic in the supermarket .	不只是我所關心的塑膠的塑膠 , 也是塑膠的基礎 。
i'd go to the supermarket and all of my food is packaged in plastic .	我去超市 , 所有的食物都包裝在塑膠裡 。
all of my beverages are packaged in plastic , even at the health food market .	我所有的平均都包裝在塑膠中 , 甚至是健康食物市場 。
i'm also concerned about the plastic in the refrigerator , and i'm concerned about the plastic and the toxins that leach from plastic into us and into our bodies .	我也擔心塑膠的塑膠和毒素從塑膠和毒素從塑膠變成我們的身體
so i came together with a group of other people who were all looking at this issue , and we created the plastic pollution coalition .	所以我和一群其他的人一起研究這個問題 , 我們創造了塑膠污染聯盟 。
we have many initiatives that we're working on , but some of them are very basic .	我們有許多倡議我們正在努力 , 但有些非常基本 。
one is: if 80 to 90 percent of what we're finding in the ocean of the marine debris that we're finding in the ocean is plastic , then why don't we call it what it is .	第一:如果80到90%的海洋中所發現的海洋中所發現的海洋塑膠 , 我們所發現的海洋是塑膠 , 那我們為什麼不稱它為何 。
recycling everybody kind of ends their books about being sustainable and greening with the idea of recycling .	回收所有人的書 , 都能持續和綠色的回收 。
you put something in a bin and you don't have to think about it again .	你把東西放進一個瓶子裡 , 你不需要再想一次 。
what is the reality of that ?	那到底是什麼呢 ?
in the united states , less than seven percent of our plastics are recycled .	在美國 , 不到7%的塑膠被回收 。
and if you really look into it , particularly when it comes to plastic bottles , most of it is only downcycled , or incinerated , or shipped to china .	如果你仔細看 , 尤其是當它塑膠瓶子的時候 , 大部分只會被廢棄或運送到中國 。
it is downcycled and turned into lesser things , while a glass bottle can be a glass bottle again or can be used again a plastic bottle can never be a plastic bottle again .	它被循環塑膠瓶蓋瓶 , 再一次塑膠瓶可以再一次塑膠瓶 , 再一次塑膠瓶也不會被塑膠瓶蓋 。
so this is a big issue for us .	所以這對我們來說是個大問題 。
another thing that we're looking at and asking people to think about is we've added a fourth r onto the front of the " reduce , reuse , recycle , " three r's , and that is refuse .	另一件事情是 , 請大家思考一下 , 我們在 「 減少回收 」 三條路上 , 回收: 「 減少 , 回收 」 。
whenever possible , refuse singleuse and disposable plastics .	永遠不可能 , 拒絕的塑膠和殘疾的塑膠 。
alternatives exist ; some of them are very oldschool .	替代方案 , 有些是很古老的 。
i myself am now collecting these cool pyrex containers and using those instead of glad and tupperware containers to store food in .	我自己現在正在收集這些酷色的粉絲包含器 , 用它們來儲存食物 。
and i know that i am doing a service to myself and my family .	我知道我為自己和家人做個服務 。
it's very easy to pick up a stainlesssteel bottle or a glass bottle , if you're traveling and you've forgotten to bring your stainlesssteel bottle and fill that up with water or filtered water , versus purchasing plastic bottled water .	很容易找到一塊石油瓶 , 或玻璃瓶 , 如果你走過來 , 你就忘記帶了一堆塑膠瓶裝水 , 或用水 , 或玻璃瓶 , 只要你走過來 , 就會被遺忘的帶著水 , 或過濾水 , 再用水來填滿水 , 或玻璃瓶 。
i guess what i want to say to everybody here and i know that you guys know a lot about this issue is that this is a huge problem in the oceans , but this is a problem that we've created as consumers and we can solve .	我想跟大家談談這問題 , 是因為這是個大問題 , 但這是我們所創造的消費者 , 可以解決的問題 。
we can solve this by raising awareness of the issue and teaching people to choose alternatives .	我們可以解決這個問題 , 讓人們選擇選擇替代方案 。
so whenever possible , to choose alternatives to singleuse plastics .	所以 , 盡可能 , 選擇替代方便 , 選擇替代方案 。
we can cut the stem tide the stem of this into our oceans and in doing so , save our oceans , save our planet , save ourselves .	我們可以把這根繩子放到海洋裡 , 拯救我們的海洋 , 拯救我們海洋 , 拯救我們的海洋 , 拯救我們海洋 , 拯救我們海洋 , 拯救我們海洋 。
this demo from pattie maes' lab at mit , spearheaded by pranav mistry was the buzz of ted . it's a wearable device with a projector that paves the way for profound interaction with our environment . imagine " minority report " and then some .	這位在麻省理工學院的marheadd的博士學位 , 由pavesearheaded , 由pavetris所設計的 , 和我們的環境互動 , 叫做 「 少數報告 」 和 「 少數 」 等等 。
demo , design , interface design , technology	demo , 設計 , 設計 , 介面設計 。
pattie maes and pranav mistry demo sixthsense	帕拉德•馬斯和帕拉米德•馬斯 , 打敗了第六個感官 。
i've been intrigued by this question of whether we could evolve or develop a sixth sense a sense that would give us seamless access and easy access to metainformation or information that may exist somewhere that may be relevant to help us make the right decision about whatever it is that we're coming across .	我一直都在想這個問題 , 是否能否演化或發展出六種感知 , 可以讓我們無可避免地接收到信息 , 或提供我們所能找到的資訊 , 來幫助我們做出正確的決策 。
and some of you may argue , well , don't today's cell phones do that already ?	有些人可能會爭論 , 今天的手機還沒做到嗎 ?
but i would say no .	但我會說不 。
when you meet someone here at ted and this is the top networking place , of course , of the year you don't shake somebody's hand and then say , " can you hold on for a moment while i take out my phone and google you ? "	當你在ted和google上見到一個人 , 會說: 「 你能不能握住某人的手 , 然後說: 「 你能不能握住某人的手 , 然後說: 「 你能不能握住某人的手 , 然後說: 「 你能不能握住某人的手 , 然後說: 「 你能不能握住某人的手 , 然後說 , "
or when you go to the supermarket and you're standing there in that huge aisle of different types of toilet papers , you don't take out your cell phone , and open a browser , and go to a website to try to decide which of these different toilet papers is the most ecologically responsible purchase to make .	或當你到超級市場 , 走到一個網站上 , 試著決定這些不同的廁所紙張是多麼大的 , 你不用手機打開瀏覽器 , 然後去網站 , 試著決定這些不同的廁所紙張是最有用的 。
so we don't really have easy access to all this relevant information that can just help us make optimal decisions about what to do next and what actions to take .	所以 , 我們不太容易取得所有相關資訊 , 可以協助我們做出最佳決策 , 決定接下來要做什麼 , 以及行動 。
and so my research group at the media lab has been developing a series of inventions to give us access to this information in a sort of easy way , without requiring that the user changes any of their behavior .	所以我的研究團隊在媒體實驗室開發出一系列的發明 , 來讓我們取得這些資訊 , 不需要使用者改變他們的行為 。
and i'm here to unveil our latest effort , and most successful effort so far , which is still very much a work in process .	我在這裡要展示我們最努力的努力 , 目前仍有許多成功的努力 , 目前仍在過程中努力 。
i'm actually wearing the device right now and we've sort of cobbled it together with components that are off the shelf and that , by the way , only cost 350 dollars at this point in time .	實際上 , 我現在穿著這個裝置 , 我們把這個裝置放在一起 , 把這些裝置放在一起 , 用零件來做 , 只花了350美金 。
i'm wearing a camera , just a simple webcam , a portable , batterypowered projection system with a little mirror .	我戴著鏡子 , 一個簡單的網球 , 一個簡單的網球 , 一個簡單的網路camirror 。
these components communicate to my cell phone in my pocket which acts as the communication and computation device .	這些零件通訊和計算裝置的通訊和計算裝置 。
and in the video here we see my student pranav mistry , who's really the genius who's been implementing and designing this whole system .	在這段影片中 , 我們看到我的學生帕納•路德 , 他是真正天才 , 設計了整個系統 。
and we see how this system lets him walk up to any surface and start using his hands to interact with the information that is projected in front of him .	我們看到這個系統讓他走到任何表面 , 開始使用他的手 , 用他的手來互動 , 用他的手來進行互動 , 用他的手來進行互動 。
the system tracks the four significant fingers .	這個系統追蹤了四個顯著的手指 。
in this case , he's wearing simple marker caps that you may recognize .	在這個案例中 , 他穿著簡單的標記帽 , 你可能認得出來 。
but if you want a more stylish version you could also paint your nails in different colors .	但如果你想要一個更穩定的版本 , 你也可以用不同顏色來畫出不同的顏色 。
and the camera basically tracks these four fingers and recognizes any gestures that he's making so he can just go to , for example , a map of long beach , zoom in and out , etc .	攝影機基本上追蹤了這些四隻手指 , 並且辨識出任何動作的地圖 , 牠能做到的地圖 , 例如 , 海灘的地圖 , 長灘 , 放大 。
the system also recognizes iconic gestures such as the " take a picture " gesture , and then takes a picture of whatever is in front of you .	系統也辨識出像 「 拍攝影像 」 的圖像 , 然後拍一張照片 , 來看看你前面的任何東西 。
and when he then walks back to the media lab , he can just go up to any wall and project all the pictures that he's taken , sort through them and organize them , and resize them , etc . , again using all natural gestures .	當他回到媒體實驗室時 , 他可以走到任何牆上 , 用所有自然的圖像 , 把它們、組織起來 , 再次使用所有自然的圖像 。
so , some of you most likely were here two years ago and saw the demo by jeff han or some of you may think , " well , doesn't this look like the microsoft surface table ? "	所以 , 在座有些人可能認為 , 嗯 , 這看起來不像微軟表表的表面嗎 ?
and yes , you also interact using natural gestures , both hands , etc .	沒錯 , 你也用自然手勢 , 雙手等等 。
but the difference here is that you can use any surface , you can walk to up to any surface , including your hand if nothing else is available and interact with this projected data .	但這裡的差異是 , 你可以走到任何表面 , 包括你的手 , 如果沒有其他東西可以用任何表面 , 就可以走到任何表面 , 包括你的手 , 不管你能用任何表面 , 都可以用任何表面 , 包括你的手 。
the device is completely portable , and can be . . .	裝置是完全可攜式的 , 也可以......
so one important difference is that it's totally mobile .	其中一個很重要的差異就是它完全移動 。
another even more important difference is that in mass production this would not cost more tomorrow than today's cell phones and would actually not sort of be a bigger packaging could look a lot more stylish than this version that i'm wearing around my neck .	另外一個更重要的差別是 , 現今的手機 , 比這個版本的手機還多 , 我所穿的脖子 , 都不像我穿著我的脖子 。
but other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as tom cruise in " minority report , " the reason why we're really excited about this device is that it really can act as one of these sixthsense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you .	但 , 另外 , 讓一些人在你面前感到興奮 , 是因為它真的可以做為 「 少數報告 」 的內容 , 說明為什麼我們對這個裝置感到非常興奮 , 是因為它真的可以做到這裝置 , 可以讓你在你面前的任何事情上有所關注 。
so we see pranav here going into the supermarket and he's shopping for some paper towels .	我們看到巴拉進入超市 , 他購買了一些紙巾 。
and , as he picks up a product the system can recognize the product that he's picking up , using either image recognition or marker technology , and give him the green light or an orange light .	當他拿起一套產品 , 就能辨識出它的產品 , 讓他能辨識出它的產品 , 並給他綠燈或橘色光線 。
he can ask for additional information .	他可以問更多的資訊 。
so this particular choice here is a particularly good choice , given his personal criteria .	所以這個特定的選擇是非常好的選擇 , 給他個人評估 。
some of you may want the toilet paper with the most bleach in it rather than the most ecologicallyresponsible choice .	有些人可能想把紙張上大部份的紙 , 而不是最嚴重的選擇 。
if he picks up a book in the bookstore , he can get an amazon rating it gets projected right on the cover of the book .	如果他在書店裡拿起一本書 , 他就能得到亞馬遜的評價 , 把它放在書的書中 。
this is juan's book , our previous speaker , which gets a great rating , by the way , at amazon .	這是jan的書 , 我們前前的演講者 , 很棒 , 以亞馬遜為例 。
and so , pranav turns the page of the book and can then see additional information about the book reader comments , maybe sort of information by his favorite critic , etc .	所以 , 帕拉將書讀者評論 , 也許是他最喜歡批評的資訊 , 甚至是閱讀者評論的資訊 。
if he turns to a particular page he finds an annotation by maybe an expert of a friend of ours that gives him a little bit of additional information about whatever is on that particular page .	如果他轉到某個特殊的頁面 , 給他一些額外的資訊 , 關於任何特定的頁面 。
reading the newspaper it never has to be outdated .	閱讀報紙 , 永遠不需要被消除 。
you can get video annotations of the event that you're reading about you can get the latest sports scores etc .	你能讀到你所讀到的影片 , 即使你讀到的影片 , 都能得到最新的運動 。
this is a more controversial one .	這更有爭議性 。
as you interact with someone at ted , maybe you can see a word cloud of the tags , the words that are associated with that person in their blog and personal web pages .	當你和ted的朋友互動時 , 可能你會看到一個名字 , 上面寫著 「 網頁 」 的字 , 和個人網頁的連結 。
in this case , the student is interested in cameras , etc .	在這個案例中 , 學生對攝影機有興趣 。
on your way to the airport , if you pick up your boarding pass , it can tell you that your flight is delayed , that the gate has changed , etc .	在飛機上 , 如果你選上你的飛行 , 會告訴你 , 飛行被打開 , 會告訴你 , 飛行被打開 , 會告訴你你的飛行被摧毀了 。
and , if you need to know what the current time is it's as simple as drawing a watch on your arm .	如果你需要知道現在的情況是簡單的 , 看看你的手臂 。
so that's where we're at so far in developing this sixth sense that would give us seamless access to all this relevant information about the things that we may come across .	所以 , 我們目前正在發展的第六條路線 , 可以讓我們無可避免地接觸到所有相關資訊 , 關於我們所經歷的所有相關資訊 。
my student pranav , who's really , like i said , the genius behind this .	我的學生 , 真像我說 , 天才在這個背後 。
he does deserve a lot of applause because i don't think he's slept much in the last three months , actually .	他應該很高興因為我不認為他在過去三個月內在最後的三個月裡都被吸引了
and his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either .	他的女友可能對他很開心 。
but it's not perfect yet , it's very much a work in progress .	但這還不是完美的 , 它在進展中是非常重要的 。
and who knows , maybe in another 10 years we'll be here with the ultimate sixth sense brain implant .	誰知道 , 或許在接下來的10年 , 我們將來臨終極的六種植入感染 。
phyllis rodriguez and aicha elwafi have a powerful friendship born of unthinkable loss . rodriguez' son was killed in the world trade center attacks on september 11 , 2001 ; elwafi's son zacarias moussaoui was convicted of a role in those attacks and is serving a life sentence . in hoping to find peace , these two moms have come to understand and respect one another .	伊波菲斯•羅德里格茲和平 , 伊波菲的兒子zacariasrodrizacariasmoussaoui被判定在2001年9月11日的孤立之中 , 愛爾華.羅德里格茲在世貿中心攻擊中 , 發現和平 , 這兩隻媽媽都為了尋找和平 , 這兩隻媽媽都在尋找和平 。
culture , global issues , politics	文化、全球議題 , 政治 。
9/11 healing: the mothers who found forgiveness , friendship	9/11:她發現原諒、友誼的母親 。
phyllis rodriguez: we are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship .	菲利•羅德里奇:我們今天在這裡 , 因為我們有多數人認為不尋常的友誼 。
and yet , it feels natural to us now .	但 , 現今 , 感覺很自然 。
i first learned that my son had been in the world trade center on the morning of september 11th , 2001 .	我第一次知道我的兒子在世界貿易中心在19911年9月11日 。
we didn't know if he had perished yet until 36 hours later .	我們不知道他是否有直到36小時後 。
at the time , we knew that it was political .	當時 , 我們知道它是政治 。
we were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son my husband , orlando , and i and our family .	我們害怕我們的國家會做些什麼 , 我們的名字叫我們的兒子 , 我的丈夫、家人 , 和家人 。
and when i saw it and yet , through the shock , the terrible shock , and the terrible explosion in our lives , literally , we were not vengeful .	當我看到它時 , 很糟糕的 , 震驚了 , 我們的生活中很糟糕的爆發 , 其實 , 我們也沒吃過驚訝 。
and a couple of weeks later when zacarias moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism , and the u . s . government called for a death penalty for him , if convicted , my husband and i spoke out in opposition to that , publicly .	幾週後 , 當zacariasmoussaoui被指控在六種反對的案例中 , 美國政府被指控為死刑 , 如果被指控 , 我丈夫和我的同伴 , 會對他說話 。
through that and through human rights groups , we were brought together with several other victims' families .	透過人權團體 , 我們和其他受害者的家人聚集在一起 。
when i saw aicha in the media , coming over when her son was indicted , and i thought , " what a brave woman .	當我在媒體上看到阿拉伯女性時 , 她的兒子被告知 , 我心想: 「 一個勇敢的女人 。
someday i want to meet that woman when i'm stronger . "	有一天 , 我想要跟那個女人當我更強壯 。 」
i was still in deep grief ; i knew i didn't have the strength .	我還在深深的悲慟中 , 我知道我沒有力量 。
i knew i would find her someday , or we would find each other .	我知道我會找到她 , 或我們會找到彼此 。
because , when people heard that my son was a victim , i got immediate sympathy .	因為當人們聽到我的兒子是受害者 , 我得到立即同情心 。
but when people learned what her son was accused of , she didn't get that sympathy .	但當人們學到她的兒子被指控時 , 她沒有同情心 。
but her suffering is equal to mine .	但她的痛苦是平等的 。
so we met in november 2002 , and aicha will now tell you how that came about .	我們在2002年11月2002年11月 , 艾莎會告訴你們這怎麼發生 。
aicha elwafi: good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen .	各位先生女士先生們
i am the mother of zacarias moussaoui .	我是zacariasmoussaoui的母親 。
and i asked the organization of human rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims .	我要求組織人權讓我觸碰到受害者的父母 。
so they introduced me to five families .	所以他們介紹給我五個家庭 。
and i saw phyllis , and i watched her .	我看到phyllis , 我看著她 。
she was the only mother in the group .	她是唯一的母親 。
the others were brothers , sisters .	其他人則是兄弟姊妹
and i saw in her eyes that she was a mother , just like me .	我在她眼中看到她的眼睛 , 她就像我一樣 。
i suffered a lot as a mother .	我常常被當作母親 。
i was married when i was 14 .	我十四歲時結婚了 。
i lost a child when i was 15 , a second child when i was 16 .	我十五歲時 , 第二個孩子 , 我十六歲 。
so the story with zacarias was too much really .	所以 , zacarias的故事很有趣 。
and i still suffer , because my son is like he's buried alive .	我仍然受苦 , 因為我的兒子就像他被埋葬了 。
i know she really cried for her son .	我知道她對她的兒子感到哭泣 。
but she knows where he is .	但她知道他在哪裡 。
my son , i don't know where he is .	我的兒子 , 我不知道他在哪裡 。
i don't know if he's alive . i don't know if he's tortured .	我不知道他是否有活性 , 我不知道他是否有活性 。
i don't know what happened to him .	我不知道他發生了什麼事 。
so that's why i decided to tell my story , so that my suffering is something positive for other women .	這就是為什麼我決定要說故事 , 所以我決定要說故事 , 所以我決定要告訴我的故事 , 讓我的痛苦是對其他女性有正面的 。
for all the women , all the mothers that give life , you can give back , you can change .	對於所有女性 , 所有的母親 , 給予生命的母親 , 你可以改變 。
it's up to us women , because we are women , because we love our children .	由於女性 , 因為我們是女性 , 因為我們是女性 , 因為我們愛我們的孩子 。
we must be handinhand and do something together .	我們必須是手握手 , 一起做些事情 。
it's not against women , it's for us , for us women , for our children .	對女性來說 , 對我們來說 , 對女性來說 , 對我們來說 , 對我們來說 , 對女性來說 , 對我們來說 , 對我們來說 , 對我們來說是對女性
i talk against violence , against terrorism .	我反對恐怖主義 。
i go to schools to talk to young , muslim girls so they don't accept to be married against their will very young .	我去上學和年輕、穆斯林女子談話 , 她們不會接受結婚 , 她們會非常年輕 。
so if i can save one of the young girls , and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as i did , well this is something good .	所以 , 如果我能拯救一個年輕女孩 , 避免他們結婚和痛苦 , 嗯 , 這真是好事 。
this is why i'm here in front of you .	這就是我在你們面前的原因 。
pr: i would like to say that i have learned so much from aicha , starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members which was a very private meeting with security , because it was november 2002 , and , frankly , we were afraid of the superpatriotism of that time in the country those of us family members .	pr:我想說我從aicha開始 , 和其他家庭成員談話 , 坦白說 , 我們對美國家庭成員感到害怕的超級偏見 , 直到202年11月 , 坦白說 , 我們對美國家庭成員感到害怕 。
but we were all so nervous .	但我們都很緊張 。
" why does she want to meet us ? "	「 為什麼她想要碰我們 ? 」
and then she was nervous .	然後她很緊張 。
" why did we want to meet her ? "	「 為什麼我們想要跟她見面 ? 」
what did we want from each other ?	我們想從彼此身上得到什麼呢 ?
before we knew each others' names , or anything , we had embraced and wept .	在我們知道彼此的名字或任何東西之前 , 我們都擁抱了 , 或任何東西 。
then we sat in a circle with support , with help , from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation .	接著 , 我們坐在一個圓圈中 , 支持協助 , 從人體驗到這種解答 。
and aicha started , and she said , " i don't know if my son is guilty or innocent , but i want to tell you how sorry i am for what happened to your families .	艾瑞克開始了 , 她說: 「 我不知道我的兒子是罪惡或無辜 , 但我想要告訴各位 , 對我的兒子是罪惡或無辜的 , 我不知道我的兒子是罪惡或無辜的 。
i know what it is to suffer , and i feel that if there is a crime , a person should be tried fairly and punished . "	我知道它是怎樣的 , 我覺得如果有犯罪 , 一個人應該要被公平和懲罰 。 」
but she reached out to us in that way , and it was , i'd like to say , it was an icebreaker .	但她接觸到我們 , 這樣說 , 其實是冰箱 。
and what happened then is we all told our stories , and we all connected as human beings .	接下來發生的是 , 我們所有人都和人類有關 。
by the end of the afternoon it was about three hours after lunch we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever .	下午結束後 , 午餐的時間大概是三小時午後 , 我們會覺得我們都知道彼此 。
now what i learned from her , is a woman , not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then , and what was being done to her son , but the life she's had .	我從她身上學到的 , 是一位女人 , 不只能在這些情況下有多大的權力 , 還能為她的兒子做些什麼 , 但她的生活是如此 。
i never had met someone with such a hard life , from such a totally different culture and environment from my own .	我從來沒有遇過這樣的人 , 我從來沒有遇過這種難以置信的文化和環境 。
and i feel that we have a special connection , which i value very much .	我覺得我們有特殊的連結 , 我非常感興趣 。
and i think it's all about being afraid of the other , but making that step and then realizing , " hey , this wasn't so hard .	我想 , 這一切都是害怕別人 , 但要做那個步驟 , 然後意識到: 「 嘿 , 這不太困難 。
who else can i meet that i don't know , or that i'm so different from ? "	誰能見到我不認識的人 , 或我不認識呢 ? 」
so , aicha , do you have a couple of words for conclusion ?	所以 , 艾瑞莎 , 你有幾個字結論嗎 ?
because our time is up .	因為我們的時間是上升的 。
aw: i wanted to say that we have to try to know other people , the other .	艾瑞克:我想說 , 我們得要試著認識其他人 , 另一方面 。
you have to be generous , and your hearts must be generous , your mind must be generous .	你必須很慷慨 , 你的心一定是慷慨的 , 你的心一定是慷慨的 , 你的心一定是慷慨的 。
you must be tolerant .	你一定要安排 。
you have to fight against violence .	你必須對抗暴力 。
and i hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other .	我希望有一天我們會聚在一起和平並尊重彼此 。
this is what i wanted to say .	這是我想要說的 。
too much of the world lacks access to clean drinking water . engineer michael pritchard did something about it inventing the portable lifesaver filter , which can make the most revolting water drinkable in seconds . an amazing demo from tedglobal 2009 .	太多世界缺乏乾淨飲用水 。 工程師麥可卡爾•普里特設計了可攜式的飲用水 。 工程師michaelpritchard做了一些關於它發明可攜式的飲用水 , 能讓大部分在二氧化碳的飲用水中產生最好的飲用水 。
business , demo , design , global issues , invention , technology , water	企業、設計、全球議題、發明、科技、水 。
michael pritchard's water filter turns filthy water drinkable	michaelpritchard水過濾水過濾水過濾水過濾 。
i'd like to talk about a couple of things today .	今天我要談談幾件事 。
the first thing is water .	第一件事是水 。
now i see you've all been enjoying the water that's been provided for you here at the conference , over the past couple of days .	現在 , 我看到你們都很享受水 , 在過去的幾天內 , 已經提供給你 。
and i'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source .	我相信你們會覺得這是來自安全的來源 。
but what if it wasn't ?	但如果不是這樣呢 ?
what if it was from a source like this ?	如果它是來自源源呢 ?
then statistics would actually say that half of you would now be suffering with diarrhea .	統計學家會說 , 你當中有一半的人會遭受腹瀉 。
i talked a lot in the past about statistics , and the provision of safe drinking water for all .	我在過去談過很多關於統計數據 , 以及安全飲用水的安全飲用 。
but they just don't seem to get through .	但他們似乎沒辦法做到 。
and i think i've worked out why .	我想我已經成功了 。
it's because , using current thinking , the scale of the problem just seems too huge to contemplate solving .	因為 , 用目前的思維 , 問題的規模似乎太大了 , 要解決問題的規模 。
so we just switch off: us , governments and aid agencies .	所以我們關閉了:我們、政府和援助機構 。
well , today , i'd like to show you that through thinking differently , the problem has been solved .	今天 , 我想要用不同的角度來看 , 問題已經解決了 。
by the way , since i've been speaking , another 13 , 000 people around the world are suffering now with diarrhea .	順道一提 , 另外一萬三千人 , 我現在就在談話 , 全世界的其他人都受苦於腹瀉 。
and four children have just died .	四個孩子就死了 。
i invented lifesaver bottle because i got angry .	我發明了生命品瓶 , 因為我很生氣 。
i , like most of you , was sitting down , the day after christmas in 2004 , when i was watching the devastating news of the asian tsunami as it rolled in , playing out on tv .	我就像大部分人一樣 , 在2004年聖誕節拍下那天 , 在2004年聖誕節拍下 , 當時我在電視上看到了亞洲海嘯的新聞 。
the days and weeks that followed , people fleeing to the hills , being forced to drink contaminated water or face death .	幾週後 , 人們逃走到山丘上 , 被迫去喝污染的水或臉死亡 。
that really stuck with me .	這讓我感到困惑 。
then , a few months later , hurricane katrina slammed into the side of america .	幾個月後 , 颶風卡塔利娜在美國遷徙 。
" okay , " i thought , " here's a first world country , let's see what they can do . "	「 好吧 , 我心想: 「 這是第一個世界國家 , 我們來看看他們能做什麼 。 」
do you know it took five days to get water to the superdome ?	你知道 , 花了五天的時間才能進入超級大量嗎 ?
people were shooting each other on the streets for tv sets and water .	人們在街上打電話給電視設備和水 。
that's when i decided i had to do something .	那時我決定要做點什麼 。
now i spent a lot of time in my garage , over the next weeks and months , and also in my kitchen much to the dismay of my wife .	我花了很多時間在我的車庫裡 , 在我的車庫裡 , 花了很多時間在我的車庫裡 , 在我的車庫裡 , 許多時間在我的車庫裡 , 甚至在我的太太之前 。
however , after a few failed prototypes , i finally came up with this , the lifesaver bottle .	然而 , 在幾次失敗的原型之後 , 我終於得到了這個 , 生命品質 。
okay , now for the science bit .	好吧 , 目前為科學界點了 。
before lifesaver , the best hand filters were only capable of filtering down to about 200 nanometers .	在航空之前 , 最好的手濾器只能過濾到大約200奈米 。
the smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers .	最小的細菌大約是200奈米 。
so a 200nanometer bacteria is going to get through a 200nanometer hole .	所以 , 一個200奈米的細菌會穿越200奈米的細菌 。
the smallest virus , on the other hand , is about 25 nanometers .	最小的病毒 , 另一方面是大約25奈米 。
so that's definitely going to get through those 200 nanometer holes .	所以 , 這絕對是在200奈米的洞見中 。
lifesaver pores are 15 nanometers .	生活品質是15奈米 。
so nothing is getting through .	所以 , 什麼都沒有發生 。
okay , i'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration .	好 , 我要給你們一個示範 。
would you like to see that ?	你希望看到這個嗎 ?
i spent all the time setting this up , so i guess i should .	我花了整整時間 , 所以我猜我應該要做些什麼 。
we're in the fine city of oxford .	我們在牛津的牛津大學 。
so someone's done that up .	有人在做這件事 。
fine city of oxford , so what i've done is i've gone and got some water from the river cherwell , and the river thames , that flow through here . and this is the water .	牛津大學的河流 , 我剛剛從河流中得到一些水 , 河流的水 , 也是水 。
but i got to thinking , you know , if we were in the middle of a flood zone in bangladesh , the water wouldn't look like this .	但我必須想 , 你知道嗎 , 如果我們在孟加拉的中間 , 水不會看起來像這樣 。
so i've gone and got some stuff to add into it .	所以 , 我有一些東西可以加入它 。
and this is from my pond .	這是我的池塘 。
have a smell of that , mister cameraman .	聞起來的氣味是 , 攝影師 。
we're just going to pour that in there .	我們就在那兒 。
michael pritchard: okay . we've got some runoff from a sewage plant farm .	michaelpritchard:好的 , 我們有一些從污水廠農場運輸的植物農場 。
so i'm just going to put that in there .	所以 , 我就要把它放進去 。
put that in there . there we go .	放在那裡 , 去吧 。
and some other bits and pieces , chuck that in there .	還有一些其他的碎片 , 碎片在裡面 。
and i've got a gift here from a friend of mine's rabbit .	我有一個禮物來自我朋友的兔子 。
so we're just going to put that in there as well .	所以我們就把它放進去 。
the lifesaver bottle works really simply .	生活品質非常簡單 。
you just scoop the water up .	你只是把水分開來 。
today i'm going to use a jug just to show you all . let's get a bit of that poo in there .	今天我要用一隻jg來展示給大家看 。 咱們來看看這裡的一小部分 。
that's not dirty enough . let's just stir that up a little bit .	這不夠髒 , 咱們來稍微調一下一下 。
okay , so i'm going to take this really filthy water , and put it in here . do you want a drink yet ?	好的 , 我要把這根水放在這裡 , 放在這裡 , 你想喝酒嗎 ?
okay . there we go .	好 , 我們開始了 。
give it a few pumps . okay ?	給予一些鼓勵 。 好嗎 ?
that's all that's necessary .	這是必要的 。
now as soon as i pop the teat , sterile drinking water is going to come out .	如我所說的 , 乾淨的水會消失 。
i've got to be quick . okay , ready ?	準備好了 , 準備好了嗎 ?
there we go . mind the electrics .	來吧 ! 心電吧 !
that is safe , sterile drinking water .	這是安全的 , 乾淨的水 。
there you go chris .	你去克里斯 。
what's it taste of ?	它的味道是什麼 ?
let's see chris's program throughout the rest of the show . okay ?	咱們來看看克里斯的程式 。 好嗎 ?
okay . lifesaver bottle is used by thousands of people around the world .	好吧 , 世界各地有數以千計的人 。
it'll last for 6 , 000 liters .	最後有6000公升 。
and when it's expired , using failsafe technology , the system will shut off , protecting the user .	當它被啟發時 , 利用失敗的科技 , 系統就會關閉 , 保護使用者 。
pop the cartridge out . pop a new one in .	把熱帶帶進去 , 放下一個新的 。
it's good for another 6 , 000 liters .	另外有6 , 000個謊言 。
so let's look at the applications .	我們來看看應用程式 。
traditionally , in a crisis , what do we do ?	傳統上 , 在危機中 , 我們該做什麼 ?
then , after a few weeks , we set up camps .	幾週後 , 我們設立營地 。
and people are forced to come into the camps to get their safe drinking water .	人們被迫進入營地 , 讓他們安全飲用水 。
what happens when 20 , 000 people congregate in a camp ?	當兩萬人聚集在營裡時 , 會發生什麼事 ?
diseases spread . more resources are required .	疾病散播 , 更多資源都需要 。
the problem just becomes selfperpetuating .	問題就變成自行了 。
but by thinking differently , and shipping these , people can stay put .	但藉由思考不同的方式 , 運送這些人 , 人們可以留下來 。
they can make their own sterile drinking water , and start to get on with rebuilding their homes and their lives .	他們可以製造出自己的可口水 , 開始重建他們的家園和生活 。
now , it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work .	現在 , 這不需要自然災害來做 。
using the old thinking , of national infrastructure and pipe work , is too expensive .	使用舊思想 , 國家基礎建設和管道 , 都太貴了 。
when you run the numbers on a calculator , you run out of noughts .	當你計算機的數字時 , 你就會跑出去 。
so here is the " thinking different " bit .	所以這裡是 「 思考不同 」 的概念 。
instead of shipping water , and using manmade processes to do it , let's use mother nature . she's got a fantastic system .	與其運送水 , 用人工程序來做它 , 我們用人造過程來做 , 用人造的過程來做 , 我們用人造過程來做 , 用人造的過程來做 , 我們用母親自然來做 。 她是個很棒的系統 。
she picks the water up from there , desalinates it , for free , transports it over there , and dumps it onto the mountains , rivers , and streams .	她從那裡拿起水源 , 把水從那裡 , 把水從那裡 , 送到山上 , 河流 , 和河流 。
and where do people live ? near water .	人們住在哪裡 ? 近水 。
all we've go to do is make it sterile . how do we do that ?	我們所做的就是讓它變得穩定 , 我們該怎麼做 ?
well , we could use the lifesaver bottle .	嗯 , 我們可以用生命品瓶 。
or we could use one of these .	或者我們可以使用其中一個 。
the same technology , in a jerry can .	相同的科技 , 在耶穌中也一樣 。
this will process 25 , 000 liters of water ; that's good enough for a family of four , for three years .	這會處理25000公升的水 , 這足夠好 , 足以讓一個家庭四個三年 。
and how much does it cost ?	它的成本是多少 ?
about half a cent a day to run .	大約有一半的時間 , 要花一半的時間才能跑 。
so , by thinking differently , and processing water at the point of use , mothers and children no longer have to walk four hours a day to collect their water .	所以 , 換句話說 , 想想看 , 母親和孩子不再需要每天走四小時 , 去收集水 。
they can get it from a source nearby .	它們可以從一個源源附近的來源 。
so with just eight billion dollars , we can hit the millennium goal's target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water .	只要八十億美金 , 我們就能達到千禧目標目標 , 讓人們無法取得安全飲用水 。
to put that into context , the u . k . government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid .	以此為例 , 英國政府每年花費大約12億英鎊在國外援助 。
but why stop there ?	但為什麼停止這樣呢 ?
with 20 billion dollars , everyone can have access to safe drinking water .	只要有20億美金 , 每個人都能取得安全飲用水 。
so the threeandahalf billion people that suffer every year as a result , and the two million kids that die every year , will live .	所以 , 每年有兩百萬的孩童死亡 , 會活得更好 。
paddy ashdown claims that we are living in a moment in history where power is changing in ways it never has before . in a spellbinding talk at tedxbrussels he outlines the three major global shifts that he sees coming .	帕迪•布魯塞爾說 , 我們生活在歷史上的一刻 , 權力正在改變 , 從未曾過過 , 在華盛頓特區的一場演說中 , 世界各地改變了他所見到的場景 。
foreign policy , global issues , politics , world cultures	外交政策、全球議題、政治、世界文化 。
paddy ashdown: the global power shift	paddown:全球權力轉移 。
there's a poem written by a very famous english poet at the end of the 19th century .	在十九世紀末 , 詩人寫了一首詩 , 名為英國詩人 。
it was said to echo in churchill's brain in the 1930s .	在1930年代 , 教科爾的腦袋裡出現了 。
and the poem goes: " on the idle hill of summer , lazy with the flow of streams , hark i hear a distant drummer , drumming like a sound in dreams , far and near and low and louder on the roads of earth go by , dear to friend and food to powder , soldiers marching , soon to die . "	這首詩是: 「 夏天 , 我聽到一個很遠的距離 , 親愛的 , 親愛的 , 親愛的 , 親愛的 , 親愛的 , 親愛的 , 親愛的 , 親愛的 , 親愛的 , 親愛的 , 親愛的 , 親愛的 , 親愛的 , 親愛的 , 親愛的舞蹈 , 很快地 , 死亡 。 」
those who are interested in poetry , the poem is " a shropshire lad " written by a . e . housman .	那些對詩人有興趣的詩人是 「 shropshirelad 」 的詩人 , 詩是 「 shropshirelad 」 。
but what housman understood , and you hear it in the symphonies of nielsen too , was that the long , hot , silvan summers of stability of the 19th century were coming to a close , and that we were about to move into one of those terrifying periods of history when power changes .	但波爾斯人的觀點是 , 你聽見它 , 尤其是當權力改變時 , 十九世紀的西班牙人會接近我們 , 同時也能從尼爾森的觀點來看 , 溫柔的敘述方式 , 即是長期、熱 , 美麗的石油節目 , 都能接近了 , 同時 , 我們也要進入一個很長期的歷史 , 強烈的氣候變遷 。
and these are always periods , ladies and gentlemen , accompanied by turbulence , and all too often by blood .	各位先生女士們 , 女士們先生們 , 全都被暴動 , 太常受到血液 。
and my message for you is that i believe we are condemned , if you like , to live at just one of those moments in history when the gimbals upon which the established order of power is beginning to change and the new look of the world , the new powers that exist in the world , are beginning to take form .	而我的信息是 , 若你想 , 身為一個人 , 在這個世界的新勢力開始改變和新勢力的新勢力開始改變和新勢力 。
and these are and we see it very clearly today nearly always highly turbulent times , highly difficult times , and all too often very bloody times .	我們現在看到的 , 通常是很明顯的 , 通常是非常嚴重的時期 , 通常是血腥的時代 。
by the way , it happens about once every century .	順便一提 , 每世紀都會發生一次 。
you might argue that the last time it happened and that's what housman felt coming and what churchill felt too was that when power passed from the old nations , the old powers of europe , across the atlantic to the new emerging power of the united states of america the beginning of the american century .	你可能會說 , 最後一次發生了 , 同事 , 當權力從舊的國家開始 , 歐洲的力量 , 歐洲的大西洋 , 到美國的新興發權 , 過去發生了 。
and of course , into the vacuum where the tooold european powers used to be were played the two bloody catastrophes of the last century the one in the first part and the one in the second part: the two great world wars .	當然 , 在另一端 , 歐洲權力被用來扮演了兩場大災難 , 最後一世紀 , 在第二個部分中 , 第二個部分是:兩個世界大戰 。
mao zedong used to refer to them as the european civil wars , and it's probably a more accurate way of describing them .	馬歐文章在歐洲內戰時期 , 可能更準確地描述它們 。
well , ladies and gentlemen , we live at one of those times .	各位先生女士 , 我們生活在其中一刻 。
but for us , i want to talk about three factors today .	但對我們來說 , 我想談談三個因素 。
and the first of these , the first two of these , is about a shift in power .	首先 , 兩者是重大的轉變 。
and the second is about some new dimension which i want to refer to , which has never quite happened in the way it's happening now .	第二 , 我想要提到的新維度 , 這從來沒有發生在現在發生的事 。
but let's talk about the shifts of power that are occurring to the world .	咱們來談談關於改變權力的轉變 。
and what is happening today is , in one sense , frightening because it's never happened before .	今天發生的情況是 , 很嚇人的是 , 因為從來沒有發生過 。
we have seen lateral shifts of power the power of greece passed to rome and the power shifts that occurred during the european civilizations but we are seeing something slightly different .	我們已經看到一些稍微不同的改變 , 希臘的權力轉變在歐洲文明中發生了 , 但在歐洲文明中 , 我們看到了一些不同 。
for power is not just moving laterally from nation to nation .	權力不僅僅是從國家到國家 。
it's also moving vertically .	它也在垂直上移動 。
what's happening today is that the power that was encased , held to accountability , held to the rule of law , within the institution of the nation state has now migrated in very large measure onto the global stage .	現今 , 國際舞蹈的權力被強迫 , 被監禁的權力 , 被監禁的權力 , 被監禁的權力 , 在國家的權力被監禁 , 被監禁在國際舞台上 。
the globalization of power we talk about the globalization of markets , but actually it's the globalization of real power .	我們談論全球化的全球化 , 但實際上這是全球化的全球化 。
and where , at the nation state level that power is held to accountability subject to the rule of law , on the international stage it is not .	而在國際舞台上 , 國際舞台上 , 國際舞台上 , 國際舞台也不是 。
the international stage and the global stage where power now resides: the power of the internet , the power of the satellite broadcasters , the power of the money changers this vast moneygoround that circulates now 32 times the amount of money necessary for the trade it's supposed to be there to finance the money changers , if you like , the financial speculators that have brought us all to our knees quite recently , the power of the multinational corporations now developing budgets often bigger than mediumsized countries .	國際舞台和全球階段 , 權力 , 國際舞台 , 權力 , 國際舞台 , 權力 , 國際舞台 , 權力 , 國際舞台 , 權力 , 國際舞台 , 權力 , 國際舞台 , 權力 , 國際舞台 , 權力 , 國際舞台和全球階段 , 目前為止 , 國際舞台和全球階段的權力 , 實際上 , 國際舞台和全球階段的權力 , 實際上 , 國際舞台和全球階段的權力 , 實際上 , 國際舞台和全球階段的權力 , 實際上 , 國際舞台和全球階段的權力 , 實際上 , 國際舞台和全球階段的權力 , 如今 , 大型金錢的權力 , 將我們所有人的權力轉換為網路的權力 , 國際舞台和全球階段 。
these live in a global space which is largely unregulated , not subject to the rule of law , and in which people may act free of constraint .	這些生活在一個全球的空間中 , 大部分都沒有規定法律 , 有些人可能會自由限制 。
now that suits the powerful up to a moment .	現在 , 這種裝置很強大了 。
it's always suitable for those who have the most power to operate in spaces without constraint , but the lesson of history is that , sooner or later , unregulated space space not subject to the rule of law becomes populated , not just by the things you wanted international trade , the internet , etc . but also by the things you don't want international criminality , international terrorism .	總是為了那些有權力的人在空間空間空間不受限制 , 不規定規定法律被限制了 , 而非規定法律被限制了 , 不僅僅是你想要國際貿易、網際網路等等 , 等等 , 不管你不想國際貿易、網路等等 , 等等 , 不管你不想國際貿易、網路等等等等 。
the revelation of 9/11 is that even if you are the most powerful nation on earth , nevertheless , those who inhabit that space can attack you even in your most iconic of cities one bright september morning .	911事件的重點是 , 即使你是世界上最有權力的國家 , 不論你是地球上最有力的國家 , 那些居住的人都可以攻擊你 , 即使你是地球上最有權力的國家 , 即便是地球上最有力的國家 。
it's said that something like 60 percent of the four million dollars that was taken to fund 9/11 actually passed through the institutions of the twin towers which 9/11 destroyed .	意思是說 , 9/11事件中有60%的4000萬美元被送到9/11摧毀的機構 。
you see , our enemies also use this space the space of mass travel , the internet , satellite broadcasters to be able to get around their poison , which is about destroying our systems and our ways .	你看 , 我們的敵人也使用這個空間 , 網路、衛星廣播 , 可以用來抵禦我們的系統 , 和我們的方式 。
sooner or later , sooner or later , the rule of history is that where power goes governance must follow .	不久之後 , 歷史的規則就是權力管理必須遵循 。
and if it is therefore the case , as i believe it is , that one of the phenomenon of our time is the globalization of power , then it follows that one of the challenges of our time is to bring governance to the global space .	如果我相信這一點 , 那就是我們時間的挑戰之一 , 就是全球化的力量 , 那麼 , 接下來 , 我們的挑戰之一就是將治理轉向全球化 。
and i believe that the decades ahead of us now will be to a greater or lesser extent turbulent the more or less we are able to achieve that aim: to bring governance to the global space .	我相信 , 數十年來 , 我們已經能夠達成這個目標:要把治理帶到全球空間 。
now notice , i'm not talking about government .	注意到 , 我不是在談論政府 。
i'm not talking about setting up some global democratic institution .	我不是在談論一些全球民主制度 。
my own view , by the way , ladies and gentlemen , is that this is unlikely to be done by spawning more u . n . institutions .	順便說一下 , 我自己的觀點 , 女士們先生們 , 各位先生女士們 , 這是不可能完成的 , 透過聯合國的機構來完成 。
if we didn't have the u . n . , we'd have to invent it .	如果我們沒有聯合國 , 我們就必須發明它 。
the world needs an international forum .	世界需要一個國際性的鼓舞 。
it needs a means by which you can legitimize international action .	意思是 , 你可以合法化國際行動 。
but when it comes to governance of the global space , my guess is this won't happen through the creation of more u . n . institutions .	但 , 要是全球太空的總統 , 我猜猜這不會發生在聯合國機構的創作中 。
it will actually happen by the powerful coming together and making treatybased systems , treatybased agreements , to govern that global space .	實際上 , 它會是由強大而來的 , 來解決基礎的系統、協定的制度 , 和基礎的制度 , 來管理這個全球的空間 。
and if you look , you can see them happening , already beginning to emerge .	如果你看 , 你可以看到它們正在發生 , 開始出現 。
the world trade organization: treatybased organization , entirely treatybased , and yet , powerful enough to hold even the most powerful , the united states , to account if necessary .	世界貿易組織:治療基礎組織 , 完全依靠基礎組織 , 但 , 強大足夠強大足夠強大足夠強大足夠強大足夠強大足夠強大的美國 , 才能保持最強大的力量 。
kyoto: the beginnings of struggling to create a treatybased organization .	kyoto:開始掙扎創造一個治療的基礎組織 。
the g20: we know now that we have to put together an institution which is capable of bringing governance to that financial space for financial speculation .	g20:我們現在知道 , 我們需要把一個機構轉為財務空間 , 來資助財務空間 。
and that's what the g20 is , a treatybased institution .	這就是g20的基礎機構 。
now there's a problem there , and we'll come back to it in a minute , which is that if you bring the most powerful together to make the rules in treatybased institutions , to fill that governance space , then what happens to the weak who are left out ?	現在 , 有一個問題 , 我們將會再回來 , 假如你把最強大的力量集合在一起 , 來填補管理空間 , 不管是哪些人 , 會因此而死掉 ?
and that's a big problem , and we'll return to it in just a second .	這是個很大的問題 , 我們會再次回到它 。
so there's my first message , that if you are to pass through these turbulent times more or less turbulently , then our success in doing that will in large measure depend on our capacity to bring sensible governance to the global space .	所以 , 我的第一個訊息是 , 假如你在經歷這些亂流時 , 會變得更不穩定 , 我們的成功 , 會大量地改變我們的能力 , 來讓全球空間變得更不穩定 。
and watch that beginning to happen .	看看這開始發生 。
my second point is , and i know i don't have to talk to an audience like this about such a thing , but power is not just shifting vertically , it's also shifting horizontally .	我的第二個重點是 , 我知道我不需要跟像這樣的人談話 , 但權力不只是轉變平面 , 而是轉變平面 。
you might argue that the story , the history of civilizations , has been civilizations gathered around seas with the first ones around the mediterranean , the more recent ones in the ascendents of western power around the atlantic .	你可能會說 , 歷史文明 , 文明的歷史 , 文明的歷史 , 文明的歷史 , 文明的歷史 , 文明的歷史 , 文明的歷史 , 文明的歷史 , 文明的歷史 , 文明的歷史 , 文明的歷史 , 文明的歷史 , 文明一直在西方的大西洋中形成 。
well it seems to me that we're now seeing a fundamental shift of power , broadly speaking , away from nations gathered around the atlantic [seaboard] to the nations gathered around the pacific rim .	對我來說 , 我們現在看到了一種基本的轉變 , 廣泛地說話 , 遠離國家聚集在太平洋岸邊 。
now that begins with economic power , but that's the way it always begins .	現在 , 從經濟權力開始 , 但它總是開始 。
you already begin to see the development of foreign policies , the augmentation of military budgets occurring in the other growing powers in the world .	你已經開始看到外國政策的發展 , 軍事預算的發展 , 在世界各地的發展 。
i think actually this is not so much a shift from the west to the east ; something different is happening .	我認為這不是從西方移到東邊的轉移 , 事情也發生了 。
my guess is , for what it's worth , is that the united states will remain the most powerful nation on earth for the next 10 years , 15 , but the context in which she holds her power has now radically altered ; it has radically changed .	我想 , 值得注意的是 , 美國在未來十年 , 十五歲時 , 仍然是世界上最強大的國家 , 但它的權力已經徹底改變了 , 完全改變了 。
we are coming out of 50 years , most unusual years , of history in which we have had a totally monopolar world , in which every compass needle for or against has to be referenced by its position to washington a world bestrode by a single colossus .	我們從五十年來 , 最不尋常的地方 , 我們在過去的五十年中 , 最不尋常的 , 也是我們所擁有的全球 , 最不尋常的 , 尤其是史上最不尋常的時刻 , 我們所處的環境 , 都必須被它的位置 , 來到華盛頓世界 , 一個全球最不尋常的時代 。
but that's not a usual case in history .	但在歷史上 , 這並不常見 。
in fact , what's now emerging is the much more normal case of history .	事實上 , 現在新興的正常情況是歷史上最常見的情況 。
you're beginning to see the emergence of a multipolar world .	你開始看到一個多點世界的新興 。
up until now , the united states has been the dominant feature of our world .	直到現在 , 美國已經成為我們世界的主要特徵 。
they will remain the most powerful nation , but they will be the most powerful nation in an increasingly multipolar world .	他們會保持最強大的國家 , 但他們將會成為世界上最強大國家的國家之一 。
and you begin to see the alternative centers of power building up in china , of course , though my own guess is that china's ascent to greatness is not smooth .	然後你開始看到在中國的替代方案 , 當然 , 雖然我猜測的是中國 , 中國最好的平均不平衡 。
it's going to be quite grumpy as china begins to democratize her society after liberalizing her economy .	當中國開始民主化她的社會時 , 中國開始民主化她的社會 。
but that's a subject of a different discussion .	但這也是另一個討論的主題
you see india , you see brazil .	你可以看到印度 , 巴西 。
you see increasingly that the world now looks actually , for us europeans , much more like europe in the 19th century .	各位現在看到的 , 越來越像歐洲人 , 在19世紀的歐洲人更像歐洲人 。
europe in the 19th century: a great british foreign secretary , lord canning , used to describe it as the " european concert of powers . "	在19世紀 , 一個偉大的英國外國秘書 , 被用來描述它成為歐洲的權利 。
there was a balance , a fivesided balance .	有一個平衡 , 一個平衡 , 五維平衡 。
britain always played to the balance .	英國總是在平衡 。
if paris got together with berlin , britain got together with vienna and rome to provide a counterbalance .	如果巴黎和柏林聯合在一起 , 巴黎與柏林聯合在一起 , 以維納和羅馬來提供一個平衡 。
now notice , in a period which is dominated by a monopolar world , you have fixed alliances nato , the warsaw pact .	注意到 , 在這個期間 , 你有固定的聯盟國 , 世界各地 , 你有固定的聯盟 , 都被一個蒙諾波世界所控制 。
a fixed polarity of power means fixed alliances .	一個固定的權力的權力意味著修復制度 。
but a multiple polarity of power means shifting and changing alliances .	但 , 權力的兩種權力意味著轉變和轉變 。
and that's the world we're coming into , in which we will increasingly see that our alliances are not fixed .	這就是我們正在進入的世界 , 我們會越來越看到我們的盟友並不是固定的 。
canning , the great british foreign secretary once said , " britain has a common interest , but no common allies . "	英國外國秘書館說: 「 英國外國秘密會說: 「 英國外國秘密會說: 「 英國外國秘密會說: 「 英國外國秘密會說: 「 英國外國秘密會說: 「 英國外國秘密是
and we will see increasingly that even we in the west will reach out , have to reach out , beyond the cozy circle of the atlantic powers to make alliances with others if we want to get things done in the world .	我們會發現 , 在西方國家 , 超越了大西洋的力量 , 才能讓盟友和其他人結合 , 只要我們想讓世界各地的一切都能做到 。
note , that when we went into libya , it was not good enough for the west to do it alone ; we had to bring others in .	注意一下 , 當我們到利比亞時 , 沒有足夠的西方才能獨自完成 , 我們必須把其他人帶進去 。
we had to bring , in this case , the arab league in .	我們必須帶入這個案例 , 阿拉伯聯盟 。
my guess is iraq and afghanistan are the last times when the west has tried to do it themselves , and we haven't succeeded .	我猜的是伊拉克和阿富汗是過去一次當西方試圖自己做 , 我們尚未成功 。
my guess is that we're reaching the beginning of the end of 400 years i say 400 years because it's the end of the ottoman empire of the hegemony of western power , western institutions and western values .	我的猜測是200年左右 , 西方國家的力量、西方力量、西方權力、西方力量、西方國家的力量 。
you know , up until now , if the west got its act together , it could propose and dispose in every corner of the world .	你知道 , 直到現在 , 若西方世界各地都能提出和分歧 , 就能提出和分歧 。
but that's no longer true .	但這不再是真正的 。
take the last financial crisis after the second world war .	以最後的金融危機為二次世界大戰結束 。
the west got together the bretton woods institution , world bank , international monetary fund the problem solved .	西方世界銀行 , 國際貨幣基金會解決問題 。
now we have to call in others .	現在我們必須打電話給其他人 。
now we have to create the g20 .	現在我們必須創造出g20 。
now we have to reach beyond the cozy circle of our western friends .	現在 , 我們必須超越我們西方朋友的核心循環 。
let me make a prediction for you , which is probably even more startling .	讓我為各位做個預測 , 這可能更加令人振奮 。
i suspect we are now reaching the end of 400 years when western power was enough .	我懷疑我們現在已經到達四百年了 , 西方力量是足夠的 。
people say to me , " the chinese , of course , they'll never get themselves involved in peacemaking , multilateral peacemaking around the world . "	人們對我說: 「 中國人 , 當然 , 他們永遠不會在世界各地和平共和平 。 」
oh yes ? why not ?	沒錯吧 ? 為什麼不 ?
how many chinese troops are serving under the blue beret , serving under the blue flag , serving under the u . n . command in the world today ?	有多少中國軍隊在藍色背後站在藍色的底下 , 保留在藍色的旗下 , 在世界各地的藍色旗幟服務 ?
how many americans ? 11 .	有多少美國人 ? 11歲 。
what is the largest naval contingent tackling the issue of somali pirates ?	什麼是最大型的海軍聯盟 , 關於索馬利海盜呢 ?
the chinese naval contingent .	中國納瓦的文章 。
of course they are , they are a mercantilist nation .	當然 , 他們是一家國家 。
they want to keep the sea lanes open .	他們想要保持海道 。
increasingly , we are going to have to do business with people with whom we do not share values , but with whom , for the moment , we share common interests .	漸漸地 , 我們和我們分享共有利益的人 , 卻沒有分享價值觀 , 同時 , 我們有共同利益 。
it's a whole new different way of looking at the world that is now emerging .	這是一種全新的不同的看法 , 正在發展新世界 。
and here's the third factor , which is totally different .	第三個因素是完全不同
today in our modern world , because of the internet , because of the kinds of things people have been talking about here , everything is connected to everything .	現今 , 在現代世界 , 由於網路 , 因為這些人在談論的 , 所有東西都與一切有關 。
we are now interdependent .	我們現在是獨立的 。
we are now interlocked , as nations , as individuals , in a way which has never been the case before , never been the case before .	我們現在被關聯 , 作為國家 , 作為一個人 , 從未曾過過這樣的案例 , 以至於從未曾過過案例 。
the interrelationship of nations , well it's always existed .	國家的國際關係 , 一直存在 。
diplomacy is about managing the interrelationship of nations .	外交的交互依賴是有關國家的國際關係 。
but now we are intimately locked together .	但現在我們很親密地聚集在一起 。
you get swine flu in mexico , it's a problem for charles de gaulle airport 24 hours later .	在墨西哥 , 它是個問題 , 查爾斯在墨西哥 , 在墨西哥 , 在墨西哥 , 查爾斯在墨西哥有一個問題 , 查爾斯在墨西哥是查爾斯飛機24小時 。
lehman brothers goes down , the whole lot collapses .	雷曼兄弟倒下 , 全部崩潰 。
there are fires in the steppes of russia , food riots in africa .	在俄羅斯的暴行 , 俄羅斯的暴風 , 暴行了非洲 。
we are all now deeply , deeply , deeply interconnected .	我們現在都深深、深深地深深地連結在一起 。
and what that means is the idea of a nation state acting alone , not connected with others , not working with others , is no longer a viable proposition .	這意味著 , 國家獨立行動的概念 , 不是與他人合作 , 而非與他人合作 , 而非與他人合作 , 而非與他人合作 , 而非與其他人合作 , 而非與他人合作 , 而非與其他人合作 。
because the actions of a nation state are neither confined to itself , nor is it sufficient for the nation state itself to control its own territory , because the effects outside the nation state are now beginning to affect what happens inside them .	因為 , 國內國家的權利不足以控制國家本身 , 也因爲美國國家的權力已經開始影響到他們內部的影響 。
i was a young soldier in the last of the small empire wars of britain .	我是一位年輕士兵 , 在英國的小帝國戰爭中 。
at that time , the defense of my country was about one thing and one thing only: how strong was our army , how strong was our air force , how strong was our navy and how strong were our allies .	那時 , 我國家的軍隊有多強 , 我們的軍隊有多強 , 我們的軍隊有多強 , 我們的軍隊有多強 , 我們的軍隊有多強 。
that was when the enemy was outside the walls .	敵人就在牆壁之外
now the enemy is inside the walls .	敵人在牆壁中 。
now if i want to talk about the defense of my country , i have to speak to the minister of health because pandemic disease is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of agriculture because food security is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of industry because the fragility of our hitech infrastructure is now a point of attack for our enemies as we see from cyber warfare i have to speak to the minister of home affairs because who has entered my country , who lives in that terraced house in that inner city has a direct effect on what happens in my country as we in london saw in the 7/7 bombings .	現在 , 如果我想談談我國家的安全 , 我必須和政府談談 , 是因為我們對安全的威脅 , 我和國內的政府說話 , 因為食物安全是對我的國家造成的威脅 , 我必須跟大眾談談 , 因為食物安全是對我國家的威脅 , 對我來說 , 國際安全的威脅 , 我必須跟大眾談談 , 因為食物安全是對我的國家造成的威脅 , 我必須和大眾談談 , 因為食物安全是對我國家的威脅 , 要談到國內的政府 , 我們的公共事業的基礎建設是對我們的敵人的恐怖攻擊 , 為了我們的敵人 , 我們在公共場所看到的網路戰爭中 , 已經進入了我的國家 。
it's no longer the case that the security of a country is simply a matter for its soldiers and its ministry of defense .	它不再是美國國家的安全 , 一個國家的安全 , 只是為了讓軍人和軍人的安全 。
it's its capacity to lock together its institutions .	它的能力可以鎖在一起它的制度 。
and this tells you something very important .	這告訴你一件很重要的事 。
it tells you that , in fact , our governments , vertically constructed , constructed on the economic model of the industrial revolution vertical hierarchy , specialization of tasks , command structures have got the wrong structures completely .	它告訴你 , 實際上 , 我們的政府 , 在工業革命時代的經濟模式上 , 建構在工業革命的經濟模式上 , 建構在工業革命的經濟模式上 , 建構在工業革命的經濟模式上 , 基本上 , 建構出了錯的結構 。
you in business know that the paradigm structure of our time , ladies and gentlemen , is the network .	你在商業知道我們時間的典型結構 , 女士 , 先生 , 這是網路 。
it's your capacity to network that matters , both within your governments and externally .	你的能力是網路的重要性 , 包括你的政府和外界 。
so here is ashdown's third law .	這裡有第三個法律 。
by the way , don't ask me about ashdown's first law and second law because i haven't invented those yet ; it always sounds better if there's a third law , doesn't it ?	順道一提 , 如果有第三個法律 , 不要問我之前的第一個法律 , 不是嗎 ?
ashdown's third law is that in the modern age , where everything is connected to everything , the most important thing about what you can do is what you can do with others .	shown第三法則是 , 在現代時代 , 所有事物都連結在一起 , 最重要的事情是你能做的事和其他人 。
the most important bit about your structure whether you're a government , whether you're an army regiment , whether you're a business is your docking points , your interconnectors , your capacity to network with others .	最重要的一點是 , 你的結構無論你是政府 , 無論你是企業 , 你的網絡 , 和其他人之間的關係 , 不管你是企業 。
you understand that in industry ; governments don't .	在產業中 , 政府也不會這麼做 。
but now one final thing .	但最後一件事 。
if it is the case , ladies and gentlemen and it is that we are now locked together in a way that has never been quite the same before , then it's also the case that we share a destiny with each other .	如果是 , 各位先生女士 , 先生們 , 我們現在被鎖在一起 , 以一種方式從未曾發生過同樣的事 , 這也是我們和彼此之間的關係 。
suddenly and for the very first time , collective defense , the thing that has dominated us as the concept of securing our nations , is no longer enough .	突然間 , 第一次 , 集體的防禦 , 首次 , 集體防禦 , 是我們國家的概念 , 不再足夠 。
it used to be the case that if my tribe was more powerful than their tribe , i was safe ; if my country was more powerful than their country , i was safe ; my alliance , like nato , was more powerful than their alliance , i was safe .	以前的情況是 , 如果我的國家比他們的國家更強大 , 我是安全的 , 我是安全的 , 比起他們的盟友 , 我安全 , 我是安全的 。
it is no longer the case .	不再是這個案例 。
the advent of the interconnectedness and of the weapons of mass destruction means that , increasingly , i share a destiny with my enemy .	相互關聯性和武器的規模破壞是 , 我與敵人分享了一場大災難 。
when i was a diplomat negotiating the disarmament treaties with the soviet union in geneva in the 1970s , we succeeded because we understood we shared a destiny with them .	當我在1970年代 , 與蘇聯聯合國外科醫師合作時 , 在1970年代 , 我們成功了 , 我們成功是因為我們了解我們和蘇聯的關係 。
collective security is not enough .	集體安全並不足夠 。
peace has come to northern ireland because both sides realized that the zerosum game couldn't work .	和平已經來到北愛爾蘭 , 因為兩邊都知道 , 零和遊戲無法運作 。
they shared a destiny with their enemies .	他們和敵人分享了命運 。
one of the great barriers to peace in the middle east is that both sides , both israel and , i think , the palestinians , do not understand that they share a collective destiny .	在中東的兩邊 , 都是以色列和平 , 我認為 , 巴勒斯坦人並不了解他們共享集體的命運 。
and so suddenly , ladies and gentlemen , what has been the proposition of visionaries and poets down the ages becomes something we have to take seriously as a matter of public policy .	突然間 , 女士們先生們 , 女士們先生們 , 女士們先生們 , 女士們先生們 , 女士們先生們 , 女士們先生們 , 已經成為我們必須認真思考的議題 。
i started with a poem , i'll end with one .	我從一首詩中開始 , 最後我會結束 。
the great poem of john donne's .	約翰•唐納的偉大詩歌 。
" send not for whom the bell tolls . "	「 不要讓貝殼會死去 。 」
the poem is called " no man is an island . "	這首詩被稱為 「 沒有人是孤島 。 」
and it goes: " every man's death affected me , for i am involved in mankind , send not to ask for whom the bell tolls , it tolls for thee . "	結果是: 「 每個人的死亡都影響我 , 不論是誰 , 貝殼 , 都會影響我 。 」
for john donne , a recommendation of morality .	約翰•尼 , 是道德的建議 。
for us , i think , part of the equation for our survival .	對我們來說 , 我認為 , 我們的一部分是為了我們生存的方程式 。
to find the path to long life and health , dan buettner and team study the world's " blue zones , " communities whose elders live with vim and vigor to recordsetting age . at tedxtc , he shares the 9 common diet and lifestyle habits that keep them spry past age 100 .	為了找到長壽命和生活方式的道路 , 他分享了9種常見飲食和生活習慣 , 讓他們在tedxtt上生長壽命和生活習慣 , 讓他們在tedxtt上播放 。
biology , culture , exploration , food , health , life , science	生物學、文化、探索、食物、健康、生命、科學 。
dan buettner: how to live to be 100+	danbuetter:如何活到100+ 。
something called the danish twin study established that only about 10 percent of how long the average person lives , within certain biological limits , is dictated by our genes .	一個名叫丹尼亞•泰丁的研究發現 , 在某些生物限制中 , 只有10%的人生活在某些生物限制中 , 人類生活在某些生物限制中 , 被我們的基因傳染了 。
the other 90 percent is dictated by our lifestyle .	其它90%是由我們生活方式所決定 。
so the premise of blue zones: if we can find the optimal lifestyle of longevity we can come up with a de facto formula for longevity .	所以 , 藍色區塊的:如果我們能找到最佳的生命形式 , 如果我們能找到最佳生活方式 , 我們就能夠找到最佳生活方式 , 以維持壽命的長壽 。
but if you ask the average american what the optimal formula of longevity is , they probably couldn't tell you .	但如果你問美國人平均壽命的最佳形式 , 他們可能不會告訴你 。
they've probably heard of the south beach diet , or the atkins diet .	他們可能聽過南海灘飲食 , 或是皮膚飲食 。
you have the usda food pyramid .	你有食物金字塔 。
there is what oprah tells us .	歐普拉告訴我們 。
there is what doctor oz tells us .	醫生oz告訴我們 。
the fact of the matter is there is a lot of confusion around what really helps us live longer better .	重點是 , 有許多混亂 , 使我們活得更好 。
should you be running marathons or doing yoga ?	你該跑馬拉松或做瑜伽嗎 ?
should you eat organic meats or should you be eating tofu ?	你應該吃吃有機肉嗎 ? 還是要吃有機肉 ?
when it comes to supplements , should you be taking them ?	到供應時 , 應該要帶他們嗎 ?
how about these hormones or resveratrol ?	這些荷爾蒙或復原物質呢 ?
and does purpose play into it ?	目的的目的是要怎麼做呢 ?
spirituality ? and how about how we socialize ?	精神性 ? 我們如何社會化 ?
well , our approach to finding longevity was to team up with national geographic , and the national institute on aging , to find the four demographically confirmed areas that are geographically defined .	我們的尋找長壽的方法是與國家地理協調 , 和國家地理協調 , 找到四個人口統計 , 來找出四個人口統計的地理標準 。
and then bring a team of experts in there to methodically go through exactly what these people do , to distill down the crosscultural distillation .	接著 , 把一群專家帶到一個專家們 , 去了解這些人做的事 , 將跨越文化的分解 。
and at the end of this i'm going to tell you what that distillation is .	最後我要告訴各位 , 這種分裂是怎麼回事 。
but first i'd like to debunk some common myths when it comes to longevity .	但首先我要去探討一些常見的迷思 , 到長壽時期 。
and the first myth is if you try really hard you can live to be 100 .	第一個迷思是 , 如果你試著真的很難活到100歲 。
the problem is , only about one out of 5 , 000 people in america live to be 100 .	問題是 , 只有大約在美國的5000人中 , 只有1500人 。
your chances are very low .	你的機會非常低 。
even though it's the fastest growing demographic in america , it's hard to reach 100 .	即使是美國最快的人口統計數字 , 很難達到百分之一 。
the problem is that we're not programmed for longevity .	問題是 , 我們並沒有程式長壽 。
we are programmed for something called procreative success .	我們被編寫為 「 成功的成功 」 。
i love that word .	我喜歡這個字 。
it reminds me of my college days .	它提醒了我大學的日子 。
biologists term procreative success to mean the age where you have children and then another generation , the age when your children have children .	生物學家說: 「 年齡是你孩子的年齡 , 你的孩子有孩子時就有孩子 。 」
after that the effect of evolution completely dissipates .	經過演化的效果完全消失了 。
if you're a mammal , if you're a rat or an elephant , or a human , in between , it's the same story .	如果你是哺乳動物 , 如果你是哺乳動物 , 如果你是一隻老鼠 , 或大象 , 或人類 , 就在同一個故事中 。
so to make it to age 100 , you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle , you also have to have won the genetic lottery .	所以 , 為了讓它到達100歲 , 你不只需要有很好的生活方式 , 你也必須得到基因學 。
the second myth is , there are treatments that can help slow , reverse , or even stop aging .	第二個迷思是 , 有治療可以協助緩慢、逆轉 , 甚至停止老化 。
when you think of it , there is 99 things that can age us .	想想看 , 那裡有99個可以讓我們做的事 。
deprive your brain of oxygen for just a few minutes , those brain cells die , they never come back .	只要幾分鐘 , 腦細胞死亡 , 它們永遠不會回來 。
play tennis too hard , on your knees , ruin your cartilage , the cartilage never comes back .	玩網球 , 軟骨 , 軟骨 , 軟骨 , 永遠不會回來 。
our arteries can clog . our brains can gunk up with plaque , and we can get alzheimer's .	我們的動脈會發出 , 我們的腦袋可以發燒 , 我們的腦袋會加上血液 。 我們的腦袋會有血液 。
there is just too many things to go wrong .	有太多事情要錯了 。
our bodies have 35 trillion cells , trillion with a " t . " we're talking national debt numbers here .	我們的身體有35兆個細胞 , 有35兆個細胞 , 其中有35兆個細胞 , 叫做 「 t 」 , 我們在說國家債務 。
those cells turn themselves over once every eight years .	每八年 , 這種細胞會自動一次 。
and every time they turn themselves over there is some damage . and that damage builds up .	每當他們轉動自己 , 就會損傷 , 損傷就會損壞 。
and it builds up exponentially .	它的建構指數增加了 。
it's a little bit like the days when we all had beatles albums or eagles albums and we'd make a copy of that on a cassette tape , and let our friends copy that cassette tape , and pretty soon , with successive generations that tape sounds like garbage .	有些時候 , 我們都拍了一首歌唱片 , 讓朋友複製那首曲子的錄音帶 , 然後讓我們的朋友複製這首歌劇的複製品 , 讓朋友複製那首曲子 , 很快地 , 讓我們的朋友複製了那首曲子的錄音帶 。
well , the same things happen to our cells .	同樣的事發生在我們的細胞身上 。
that's why a 65yearold person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12yearold person .	這就是為什麼一個65歲的人比一個125歲的老人更快了125倍 。
so , if there is nothing you can do to slow your aging or stop your aging , what am i doing here ?	所以 , 如果沒有什麼能讓你衰老、停止老化 , 我在做什麼 ?
well , the fact of the matter is the best science tells us that the capacity of the human body , my body , your body , is about 90 years , a little bit more for women .	事實上 , 最重要的是最好的科學告訴我們 , 人類身體、身體、身體 , 90年來 , 比較多的女性 。
but life expectancy in this country is only 78 .	但在這個國家的預期壽命只有78 。
so somewhere along the line , we're leaving about 12 good years on the table .	在這條路線上 , 我們留下了12個好處 。
these are years that we could get .	這些年來我們都能得到 。
and research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease , heart disease , cancer and diabetes .	研究顯示 , 大部分的慢性疾病、心臟疾病、癌症和糖尿病 , 都沒有 。
we think the best way to get these missing years is to look at the cultures around the world that are actually experiencing them , areas where people are living to age 100 at rates up to 10 times greater than we are , areas where the life expectancy is an extra dozen years , the rate of middle age mortality is a fraction of what it is in this country .	我們認為 , 最好的方法就是去看這些世界各地的文化 , 讓這些年齡的人口數十年來 , 比我們更大 , 中年人口的壽命 , 中年死亡率的數量是 , 中年死亡率的百分之十倍 , 尤其是在這個國家中年齡的人口 。
we found our first blue zone about 125 miles off the coast of italy , on the island of sardinia .	我們發現我們的第一個藍色區域大約125英里 , 在義大利的海岸 , 在義大利的海岸 。
and not the entire island , the island is about 1 . 4 million people , but only up in the highlands , an area called the nuoro province .	不是整個島嶼 , 島嶼大約有140萬人 , 但只有在高地 , 島嶼有一百四十萬人 。
and here we have this area where men live the longest , about 10 times more centenarians than we have here in america .	這裡我們有這個區域 , 居住最長的人 , 比我們在美國這裡有百分之十倍 。
and this is a place where people not only reach age 100 , they do so with extraordinary vigor .	這裡是人們不只到達100歲的地方 , 他們做得很棒 。
places where 102 year olds still ride their bike to work , chop wood , and can beat a guy 60 years younger than them .	在那裡102歲的老人仍然騎腳踏車去工作、砍伐木頭 , 還能比他們更年輕 。
their history actually goes back to about the time of christ .	他們的歷史其實回到基督徒的時代 。
it's actually a bronze age culture that's been isolated .	其實是被隔離的古老文化 。
because the land is so infertile , they largely are shepherds , which occasions regular , lowintensity physical activity .	因為土地是牧羊 , 大部份是牧羊 , 主要是牧羊 , 牠們大大是牧羊 , 牠們主要是牧羊 , 大量是牧羊 。
their diet is mostly plantbased , accentuated with foods that they can carry into the fields .	他們的飲食主要是植物為基礎的飲食 , 可以帶到田野 。
they came up with an unleavened whole wheat bread called carta musica made out of durum wheat , a type of cheese made from grassfed animals so the cheese is high in omega3 fatty acids instead of omega6 fatty acids from cornfed animals , and a type of wine that has three times the level of polyphenols than any known wine in the world .	牠們拿出一塊麵包 , 叫做卡塔卡塔音樂 , 由灰色動物組成的 , 而一種葡萄酒 , 比任何已知葡萄酒的葡萄糖更高 , 而葡萄酒 , 含有3脂肪酸 , 而一種葡萄酒 , 含有三倍的葡萄糖 , 而一種葡萄酒 , 比任何已知葡萄酒的三倍 。
but the real secret i think lies more in the way that they organize their society .	但真正的秘密我認為謊言是他們組織他們的社會 。
and one of the most salient elements of the sardinian society is how they treat older people .	薩丁尼亞社會最好的一部分是如何治療老年人 。
you ever notice here in america , social equity seems to peak at about age 24 ?	你有沒有注意到 , 在美國 , 社會平等似乎高峰在24歲時 ?
just look at the advertisements .	看看廣告 。
here in sardinia , the older you get the more equity you have , the more wisdom you're celebrated for .	在薩丁尼亞 , 年紀越多 , 你就得到更多的智慧 , 擁有更平等的智慧 。
you go into the bars in sardinia , instead of seeing the sports illustrated swimsuit calendar , you see the centenarian of the month calendar .	你在沙丁尼亞看到一個月曆 , 而不是看到月曆的百分之八十 。
this , as it turns out , is not only good for your aging parents to keep them close to the family it imparts about four to six years of extra life expectancy research shows it's also good for the children of those families , who have lower rates of mortality and lower rates of disease .	事實證明 , 對於這些家庭的父母來說 , 對於父母來說 , 他們的壽命率較低 , 比起死亡率 , 更低的死亡率和低估率 , 死亡率和低降低率 。
that's called the grandmother effect .	這叫做祖母效應 。
we found our second blue zone on the other side of the planet , about 800 miles south of tokyo , on the archipelago of okinawa .	我們發現在地球另一邊的另一邊 , 大約800英哩的南方 , 阿基奇島的阿基奇島 。
okinawa is actually 161 small islands .	okinawa其實是161個小島 。
and in the northern part of the main island , this is ground zero for world longevity .	而在主要島嶼的北部 , 這裡是全球長壽的三角洲 。
this is a place where the oldest living female population is found .	這裡是最古老的居住女性族群 。
it's a place where people have the longest disabilityfree life expectancy in the world .	這是一個地方 , 人們在世界上最長的壽命不可預期 。
they have what we want .	他們有我們想要的 。
they live a long time , and tend to die in their sleep , very quickly , and often , i can tell you , after sex .	牠們生活很快 , 通常 , 我可以告訴你 , 牠們在睡眠中很快 , 很快 , 通常 , 我可以告訴你 。
they live about seven good years longer than the average american .	他們比平均壽命更長了七歲 。
five times as many centenarians as we have in america .	美國有五倍之多的美國人 。
one fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer , big killers here in america .	第五分之一是乳癌和乳癌 , 在美國的大殺人 。
and one sixth the rate of cardiovascular disease .	心血管疾病的六分之一 。
and the fact that this culture has yielded these numbers suggests strongly they have something to teach us .	這種文化已經給予這些數字建議 , 讓他們能教導我們 。
what do they do ?	他們怎麼做 ?
once again , a plantbased diet , full of vegetables with lots of color in them .	再一次 , 植物的飲食 , 很多顏色的蔬菜 。
and they eat about eight times as much tofu as americans do .	他們吃了大約八倍 , 像美國人一樣 。
more significant than what they eat is how they eat it .	更重要的是牠們吃的食物 。
they have all kinds of little strategies to keep from overeating , which , as you know , is a big problem here in america .	他們有各種各式各樣的策略 , 不管你知道的 , 這是美國最大的問題 。
a few of the strategies we observed: they eat off of smaller plates , so they tend to eat fewer calories at every sitting .	我們觀察到的一些策略:他們吃掉較小的盤子 , 所以他們會吃少數的卡路里 。
instead of serving family style , where you can sort of mindlessly eat as you're talking , they serve at the counter , put the food away , and then bring it to the table .	而不是服務家人 , 把食物放到桌上 , 然後把食物帶到桌上 , 把食物放到桌上 。
they also have a 3 , 000yearold adage , which i think is the greatest sort of diet suggestion ever invented .	他們也有三千歲的年齡 , 我認為這是最偉大的飲食建議 。
it was invented by confucius .	它是由於混亂所發明的 。
and that diet is known as the hara , hatchi , bu diet .	這種飲食習慣 , 例如哈拉、哈拉、哈拉、哈拉、漢堡 。
it's simply a little saying these people say before their meal to remind them to stop eating when their stomach is [80] percent full .	簡單的說法是 , 有人說 , 在他們的胃口中 , 要提醒他們要吃掉他們的胃 , 只剩下百分之八十 。
it takes about a half hour for that full feeling to travel from your belly to your brain .	花了半小時才能從你的大腦中傳送到你的大腦 。
and by remembering to stop at 80 percent it helps keep you from doing that very thing .	只要記住停止80%的幫助 , 就能協助你做這件事 。
but , like sardinia , okinawa has a few social constructs that we can associate with longevity .	但 , 像薩丁尼亞一樣 , okinawa有一些社會結構 , 讓我們能和長壽 。
we know that isolation kills .	我們知道孤立殺死了 。
fifteen years ago , the average american had three good friends .	五年前 , 平均美國有三個好朋友 。
we're down to one and half right now .	我們現在已經到一半了 。
if you were lucky enough to be born in okinawa , you were born into a system where you automatically have a half a dozen friends with whom you travel through life .	如果你很幸運 , 在你人生中出生時 , 你出生於一個系統中 , 你出生於一個系統中 , 你出生在五十多個朋友中 , 你出生在你自己的人生中 。
they call it a moai . and if you're in a moai you're expected to share the bounty if you encounter luck , and if things go bad , child gets sick , parent dies , you always have somebody who has your back .	他們稱它為moai 。 如果你在moai , 如果你在一個月球上 , 如果你在一個月球上 , 你總是有一些人有你的背後 , 會有你的遺傳 。
this particular moai , these five ladies have been together for 97 years .	這種特殊的媽媽 , 這些五位女士已經聚集了97年 。
their average age is 102 .	他們平均年齡是102歲 。
typically in america we've divided our adult life up into two sections .	通常在美國 , 我們把我們的成年分成兩部分 。
there is our work life , where we're productive .	我們有工作生活 , 我們有生產力 。
and then one day , boom , we retire .	有一天 , 我們退休了 。
and typically that has meant retiring to the easy chair , or going down to arizona to play golf .	一般來說 , 它的意思是要退休到亞利桑那州去高爾夫球 。
in the okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement .	在科納瓦語中 , 甚至沒有一個字可以退休 。
instead there is one word that imbues your entire life , and that word is " ikigai . "	反而有一種詞是 「 基加西 」 。
and , roughly translated , it means " the reason for which you wake up in the morning . "	粗糙地翻譯 , 意思是: 「 你早上醒來的原因 。 」
for this 102yearold karate master , his ikigai was carrying forth this martial art .	對於這個102歲的大師 , 他的kigaikigaikigaikigaikigaikigaikigaikigaikigaikigaikigaikigaikigaikigaikigai在
for this hundredyearold fisherman it was continuing to catch fish for his family three times a week .	對這百歲的漁民而言 , 牠一直在捕魚魚 , 一週就要捕魚 。
and this is a question . the national institute on aging actually gave us a questionnaire to give these centenarians .	這是個問題 , 美國國家研究院 , 實際上給了我們一個問卷 , 給予這些百分之百的人 。
and one of the questions , they were very culturally astute , the people who put the questionnaire .	其中一個問題是 , 人們常常感到困惑 , 不論是誰 , 他們都很困惑 。
one of the questions was , " what is your ikigai ? "	其中一個問題是: 「 你的ikigai是什麼 ? 」
they instantly knew why they woke up in the morning .	他們很明明為什麼在早上起床 。
for this 102 year old woman , her ikigai was simply her greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	對於這個102歲的女人 , 她的愛吉加爾只是她的曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾經歷過
two girls separated in age by 101 and a half years .	兩位女孩分離了101年半 。
and i asked her what it felt like to hold a greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	我問她 , 覺得自己會覺得什麼樣子 , 感覺就像是被一位曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾曾孫女
and she put her head back and she said , " it feels like leaping into heaven . "	她把她的頭放回來 , 她說: 「 感覺像是跳進天堂 。 」
i thought that was a wonderful thought .	我覺得那是個很棒的想法 。
my editor at geographic wanted me to find america's blue zone .	我編輯的編輯想要我去找美國的藍色區域 。
and for a while we looked on the prairies of minnesota , where actually there is a very high proportion of centenarians .	儘管我們看了明尼蘇達州的詩人 , 那裡有非常高的百分比 。
but that's because all the young people left .	但那是因為所有的年輕人 。
so , we turned to the data again .	所以 , 我們轉向資料 。
and we found america's longestlived population among the seventhday adventists concentrated in and around loma linda , california .	我們找到美國最長壽的族群之一 , 住在洛馬琳達 , 加州 , 加州 。
adventists are conservative methodists .	抗議者是保守法者 。
they celebrate their sabbath from sunset on friday till sunset on saturday .	他們慶祝他們在星期六 , 星期五日落在星期六 。
a " 24hour sanctuary in time , " they call it .	《24小時的監獄》 , 他們稱之為:
and they follow five little habits that conveys to them extraordinary longevity , comparatively speaking .	他們遵循五個小習慣 , 來傳達他們非凡的長壽 , 相對的 。
in america here , life expectancy for the average woman is 80 .	在美國 , 平均女性的預期壽命是80歲 。
but for an adventist woman , their life expectancy is 89 .	但 , 對於一位女性 , 他們的壽命是89歲 。
and the difference is even more pronounced among men , who are expected to live about 11 years longer than their american counterparts .	差異更大 , 比起美國人的預期壽命長達十一年 。
now , this is a study that followed about 70 , 000 people for 30 years .	這個研究顯示了約七萬人 。
sterling study . and i think it supremely illustrates the premise of this blue zone project .	嚴謹的研究 , 我覺得它很明顯地說明了這個藍色區塊計畫的承諾 。
this is a heterogeneous community .	這是個不可思議的社區 。
it's white , black , hispanic , asian .	白人、黑人、亞洲人 。
the only thing that they have in common are a set of very small lifestyle habits that they follow ritualistically for most of their lives .	他們唯一共享的就是一組非常小的生活型習慣 , 習慣他們常常生活中最常見的習慣 。
they take their diet directly from the bible .	他們直接從聖經中取得他們的飲食 。
genesis: chapter one , verse [29] , where god talks about legumes and seeds , and on one more stanza about green plants , ostensibly missing is meat .	基因:章魚:章魚 , 百分之三十二的綠色植物 , 通常是肉類 。
they take this sanctuary in time very serious .	他們在時間非常嚴肅的時候就這樣做 。
for 24 hours every week , no matter how busy they are , how stressed out they are at work , where the kids need to be driven , they stop everything and they focus on their god , their social network , and then , hardwired right in the religion , are nature walks .	每週24小時 , 不論有多忙碌 , 他們會停止一切 , 專注於他們的社會網路 , 然後在宗教上 , 大自然行走 。
and the power of this is not that it's done occasionally , the power is it's done every week for a lifetime .	這種力量的力量是 , 每週一生都在做偶爾 。
none of it's hard . none of it costs money .	這一切都很困難 , 不需要錢 。
adventists also tend to hang out with other adventists .	阿德維主義者也傾向於其他的抗爭者 。
so , if you go to an adventist's party you don't see people swilling jim beam or rolling a joint .	所以 , 如果你去參加一場參加會議的派對 , 你看不見人們穿著jimbeam或rollingjimbeam 。
instead they're talking about their next nature walk , exchanging recipes , and yes , they pray .	相反地 , 他們說的是他們的下一天性步行 , 改善 , 是的 , 祈禱 。
but they influence each other in profound and measurable ways .	但它們對彼此的影響彼此深遠且可測量 。
this is a culture that has yielded ellsworth whareham .	這是一種文化 , 讓ellswhareham 。
ellsworth whareham is 97 years old .	ellswhareham97歲 。
he's a multimillionaire , yet when a contractor wanted 6 , 000 dollars to build a privacy fence , he said , " for that kind of money i'll do it myself . "	他是個多百萬富翁 , 但當收入者想要六千美金來建立隱私權利時 , 他說: 「 我會這樣做 。 」
so for the next three days he was out shoveling cement , and hauling poles around .	所以 , 在接下來的三天 , 他穿著水泥 , 包圍著周圍的環境 。
and predictably , perhaps , on the fourth day he ended up in the operating room .	可預測的是 , 也許 , 在第四天他結束了手術室 。
but not as the guy on the table ; the guy doing openheart surgery .	但不是在桌上的人 , 做開頭手術 。
at 97 he still does 20 openheart surgeries every month .	在97歲時 , 每個月他仍然有20個開放手術 。
ed rawlings , 103 years old now , an active cowboy , starts his morning with a swim .	老鼠 , 十三歲 , 一隻活躍的牛仔 , 早上游泳 。
and on weekends he likes to put on the boards , throw up rooster tails .	週末 , 他喜歡放進板子上 , 丟下樓梯 。
her grandson actually lives in the twin cities here .	她的孫子住在雙胞胎城市裡 。
she starts her day with lifting weights .	她從那一天開始 , 用重量來實現 。
she rides her bicycle .	她騎腳踏車 。
and then she gets in her rootbeer colored 1994 cadillac seville , and tears down the san bernardino freeway , where she still volunteers for seven different organizations .	接著 , 她在聖貝納丁諾爾斯維爾的路上留下了七個不同的組織 , 在那裡她仍然自願為七個不同的組織提供七個不同的組織 。
i've been on 19 hardcore expeditions .	我已經在19個硬幣的探險 。
i'm probably the only person you'll ever meet who rode his bicycle across the sahara desert without sunscreen .	我可能是唯一你會見過的人 , 他在撒哈拉沙漠沒有陽光 , 他的腳踏車穿過沙漠 。
but i'll tell you , there is no adventure more harrowing than riding shotgun with marge deton .	但我會告訴你們 , 沒有冒險的比起飛行車騎腳踏車的高峰 。
" a stranger is a friend i haven't met yet ! " she'd say to me .	「 陌生人是我還沒見過的朋友 。 」 她告訴我 。
so , what are the common denominators in these three cultures ?	所以 , 這些三種文化中的共同點是什麼 ?
what are the things that they all do ?	什麼是他們所做的事 ?
and we managed to boil it down to nine .	然後我們管理了九個 。
in fact we've done two more blue zone expeditions since this and these common denominators hold true .	事實上 , 我們做了兩種藍色區域 , 由這個和這些共同的點子組成 。
and the first one , and i'm about to utter a heresy here , none of them exercise , at least the way we think of exercise .	首先 , 我是要把這句話放在這裡 , 沒有任何練習 , 至少我們思考練習的方式 。
instead , they set up their lives so that they are constantly nudged into physical activity .	相反地 , 他們建立了他們的生命 , 讓它們不斷地被重視為實體活動 。
these 100yearold okinawan women are getting up and down off the ground , they sit on the floor , 30 or 40 times a day .	這些一百歲的兒童都在地上坐下 , 她們坐在地板上 , 每天有30或40次 。
sardinians live in vertical houses , up and down the stairs .	薩丁尼亞人住在垂直的房子 , 樓梯上樓梯 。
every trip to the store , or to church or to a friend's house occasions a walk .	每趟旅行、教堂或教堂 , 或教堂 , 或朋友的房子 , 每次旅行 。
they don't have any conveniences .	他們沒有任何方便 。
there is not a button to push to do yard work or house work .	沒有一個按鈕 , 去做房子工作或做房子 。
if they want to mix up a cake , they're doing it by hand .	如果他們想要混合蛋糕 , 他們會用手做 。
that burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does .	這種燃燒的卡路里就像跑跑跑步機一樣 。
when they do do intentional physical activity , it's the things they enjoy . they tend to walk , the only proven way to stave off cognitive decline , and they all tend to have a garden .	當他們做實體活動時 , 他們都傾向於有花園 。 他們傾向於有花園 。
they know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook .	他們知道如何在正確的狀態下做出正確的權利 , 所以他們有正確的權利 。
each of these cultures take time to downshift .	每種文化都有時間轉變 。
the sardinians pray . the seventhday adventists pray .	薩丁尼亞人祈禱 。 七天的聖戰者祈禱 。
the okinawans have this ancestor veneration .	okinawan有這個祖先的祖先 。
but when you're in a hurry or stressed out , that triggers something called the inflammatory response , which is associated with everything from alzheimer's disease to cardiovascular disease .	但當你在心血管疾病時 , 會觸發一種稱為 「 氣味反應 」 的症狀 , 引發了 「 氣味反應 」 , 它和所有阿茲海默症患者有關的心血管疾病有關 。
when you slow down for 15 minutes a day you turn that inflammatory state into a more antiinflammatory state .	當你慢下來十五分鐘時 , 會產生一種更加抗炎的狀態 。
they have vocabulary for sense of purpose , ikigai , like the okinawans .	他們有用詞彙的意義 , 例如 , 阿肯尼亞瓦 。
you know the two most dangerous years in your life are the year you're born , because of infant mortality , and the year you retire .	你知道你生命中最危險的一年 , 是因為嬰兒死亡率 , 以及年復一年 。
these people know their sense of purpose , and they activate in their life , that's worth about seven years of extra life expectancy .	這些人知道他們的人生 , 值得約七年的時間 , 值得約七年的時間 。
there's no longevity diet .	沒有長壽的飲食 。
instead , these people drink a little bit every day , not a hard sell to the american population .	反而 , 這些人每天都喝了一點點 , 不是賣給美國人 。
they tend to eat a plantbased diet .	他們通常會吃植物的飲食 。
doesn't mean they don't eat meat , but lots of beans and nuts .	不代表他們不吃肉 , 但很多豆類和甜蜜 。
and they have strategies to keep from overeating , little things that nudge them away from the table at the right time .	他們有策略要從桌子上擺脫 , 讓它們從桌子上 , 隨時隨地 。
and then the foundation of all this is how they connect .	接下來的基礎是他們如何聯繫 。
they put their families first , take care of their children and their aging parents .	他們先把家人帶進來 , 照顧他們的孩子和老年人 。
they all tend to belong to a faithbased community , which is worth between four and 14 extra years of life expectancy if you do it four times a month .	他們都屬於一個信仰的社群 , 值得花4年的時間 , 預期壽命只有四倍 。
and the biggest thing here is they also belong to the right tribe .	最重要的是 , 他們也屬於對部落 。
they were either born into or they proactively surrounded themselves with the right people .	不論是生成或他們正常被自己和對人的身分交配 。
we know from the framingham studies , that if your three best friends are obese there is a 50 percent better chance that you'll be overweight .	我們從fm研究中發現 , 如果你三個最好的朋友越過胖 , 你就會有更好的機會 。
so , if you hang out with unhealthy people , that's going to have a measurable impact over time .	所以 , 如果你和不健康的人聚在一起 , 那將會有很大的影響力 。
instead , if your friend's idea of recreation is physical activity , bowling , or playing hockey , biking or gardening , if your friends drink a little , but not too much , and they eat right , and they're engaged , and they're trusting and trustworthy , that is going to have the biggest impact over time .	相反的 , 如果你的朋友喝了一個小東西 , 沒有太多 , 或花園 , 如果你的朋友喝酒 , 或花園 , 如果你的朋友喝了一點點 , 但不太多 , 他們的確是實體活動 , 會有大規模的衝擊 , 和信任 , 和信任 。
diets don't work . no diet in the history of the world has ever worked for more than two percent of the population .	飲食不在歷史上 , 全世界的人口數量超過百分之二 。
exercise programs usually start in january ; they're usually done by october .	運動計畫通常在一月開始 , 通常是十月份 。
when it comes to longevity there is no short term fix in a pill or anything else .	長壽以來 , 沒有短期治療 , 不用藥丸或其他東西 。
but when you think about it , your friends are longterm adventures , and therefore , perhaps the most significant thing you can do to add more years to your life , and life to your years . thank you very much .	但 , 想想看 , 你的朋友是長期冒險的旅程 , 所以 , 或許你能做的最重要的事情是 , 花了數年的時間 , 去你的生活 , 非常謝謝你 。
ink that conducts electricity ; a window that turns from clear to opaque at the flip of a switch ; a jelly that makes music . all this stuff exists , and catarina mota says: it's time to play with it . mota leads us on a tour of surprising and cool new materials , and suggests that the way we'll figure out what they're good for is to experiment , tinker and have fun .	基礎上 , 卡塔馬塔rinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarina:
creativity , design , technology	創造力、設計、科技 。
catarina mota: play with smart materials	catarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarinamotarina:
i have a friend in portugal whose grandfather built a vehicle out of a bicycle and a washing machine so he could transport his family .	我有個朋友在葡萄牙 , 他的祖父 , 騎腳踏車和洗衣機 , 他可以交通他的家人 。
he did it because he couldn't afford a car , but also because he knew how to build one .	他這麼做是因為他不知道如何建造一台車 , 也因為他知道如何建造一個 。
there was a time when we understood how things worked and how they were made , so we could build and repair them , or at the very least make informed decisions about what to buy .	有一段時間我們了解他們如何運作 , 以及它們如何運作 , 我們了解它們如何運作 , 以及它們如何運作 , 所以我們可以建造並修復它們 , 至少能做出改善的決定 。
many of these doityourself practices were lost in the second half of the 20th century .	在二十世紀 , 許多這些人在二十世紀時就失去了 。
but now , the maker community and the opensource model are bringing this kind of knowledge about how things work and what they're made of back into our lives , and i believe we need to take them to the next level , to the components things are made of .	但現在 , 製造家社區和開放式的模型正在帶領這些知識 , 關於它們如何運作 , 以及它們在我們生活中所產生的結果 , 我相信我們需要把它們帶到下一個層面 , 創造出各種知識 。
for the most part , we still know what traditional materials like paper and textiles are made of and how they are produced .	大部分部分 , 我們仍然知道傳統的材料 , 像是紙、紡織品 , 以及它們如何製造出來 。
but now we have these amazing , futuristic composites plastics that change shape , paints that conduct electricity , pigments that change color , fabrics that light up .	但現在我們有了這些令人驚訝、有奇異的塑膠 , 改變顏色的塑膠 , 改變顏色的塑膠 , 會改變顏色 , 製造出電力 。
let me show you some examples .	讓我舉個例子 。
so conductive ink allows us to paint circuits instead of using the traditional printed circuit boards or wires .	電路板的電路板或電路板也不會使用傳統列印電路板或電路板 。
in the case of this little example i'm holding , we used it to create a touch sensor that reacts to my skin by turning on this little light .	在這個小小的例子中 , 我們用它來製造一種觸覺感應器 , 用它來製造觸感器 , 用它來製造觸感器 , 用它來製造觸感器 , 用它來製造觸感器 , 用它來製造觸感器 , 用它來創造觸感感應器 ,
conductive ink has been used by artists , but recent developments indicate that we will soon be able to use it in laser printers and pens .	過去的藝術家最近發展指出 , 我們很快就能夠用在雷射印表機和筆筆上 。
and this is a sheet of acrylic infused with colorless lightdiffusing particles .	這張圖片是由無色的光明散射粒子組成的 。
what this means is that , while regular acrylic only diffuses light around the edges , this one illuminates across the entire surface when i turn on the lights around it .	意思是 , 雖然一般的光線繞過整個表面的光線 , 我會把光線轉換在邊緣 。
two of the known applications for this material include interior design and multitouch systems .	這項材料包含了內部設計和多個觸控系統 。
and thermochromic pigments change color at a given temperature .	氣候變色的顏色會改變顏色 。
so i'm going to place this on a hot plate that is set to a temperature only slightly higher than ambient and you can see what happens .	所以 , 我要把這個放在溫度上 , 放在一個溫度上 , 比你能看到的狀況更高 。
so one of the principle applications for this material is , amongst other things , in baby bottles , so it indicates when the contents are cool enough to drink .	其中一個原則是 , 在嬰兒瓶子中 , 要讓內容很酷 , 可以喝酒 。
so these are just a few of what are commonly known as smart materials .	所以這些只是一些常常被稱為智慧材料的東西 。
in a few years , they will be in many of the objects and technologies we use on a daily basis .	幾年後 , 它們會在我們每天使用的物品和技術上使用 。
we may not yet have the flying cars science fiction promised us , but we can have walls that change color depending on temperature , keyboards that roll up , and windows that become opaque at the flick of a switch .	我們可能還沒有飛行汽車科幻小說 , 但我們可以有牆壁 , 改變顏色的溫度、鍵盤、鍵盤 , 並且窗戶會轉變為光線 。
so i'm a social scientist by training , so why am i here today talking about smart materials ?	所以 , 我為什麼今天要談的是智慧材料呢 ?
well first of all , because i am a maker .	首先 , 因為我是製造者 。
i'm curious about how things work and how they are made , but also because i believe we should have a deeper understanding of the components that make up our world , and right now , we don't know enough about these hightech composites our future will be made of .	我很好奇他們是如何運作的 , 以及它們是如何運作的 , 但我相信我們應該更深入了解我們所創造的組合 , 而現在 , 我們並不知道這些高科技的組合成我們的世界 。
smart materials are hard to obtain in small quantities .	智慧材料很難在小量中取得 。
there's barely any information available on how to use them , and very little is said about how they are produced .	幾乎沒有任何資訊可以使用它們 , 很少有人說他們是如何製造的 。
so for now , they exist mostly in this realm of trade secrets and patents only universities and corporations have access to .	所以 , 目前 , 他們大部分在交易秘密和專利只有大學和企業都可以取得 。
so a little over three years ago , kirsty boyle and i started a project we called open materials .	大約三年前 , 凱西.男生和我開始了一個專案 , 叫做 「 開放材料 」 。
it's a website where we , and anyone else who wants to join us , share experiments , publish information , encourage others to contribute whenever they can , and aggregate resources such as research papers and tutorials by other makers like ourselves .	這是個網站 , 我們每一個人都想要加入我們 , 分享實驗 , 發表信息 , 鼓勵其他人想要加入我們 , 分享實驗 , 分享實驗 , 發表資訊 , 鼓勵其他人想要加入我們 , 分享實驗 , 分享實驗 , 發表資訊 , 鼓勵其他人想要加入我們 , 分享實驗 , 發表資訊 , 鼓勵其他人想要加入我們 , 分享實驗 , 分享實驗 , 分享實驗 , 分享實驗 , 發表資訊 ,
we would like it to become a large , collectively generated database of doityourself information on smart materials .	我們會把它變成大大集體的資料庫 , 用智慧型材料來製造資料庫 。
but why should we care how smart materials work and what they are made of ?	但 , 為什麼我們要關心智慧材料是如何運作的 , 以及它們是如何運作的 ?
first of all , because we can't shape what we don't understand , and what we don't understand and use ends up shaping us .	首先 , 因為我們無法形塑我們不了解的事物 , 以及我們無法形塑我們不了解的東西 , 以及我們無法形塑我們不了解的東西 。
the objects we use , the clothes we wear , the houses we live in , all have a profound impact on our behavior , health and quality of life .	我們所使用的物品 , 衣服 , 衣服 , 衣服 , 衣服 , 我們穿的衣服 , 我們所穿的衣服 , 我們所穿的衣服 , 我們所使用的衣服 , 我們所穿的衣服 , 我們所穿的衣服 , 我們所生活
so if we are to live in a world made of smart materials , we should know and understand them .	所以 , 如果我們要活在一個充滿智慧型材料的世界 , 我們應該知道 , 了解它們 。
secondly , and just as important , innovation has always been fueled by tinkerers .	第二 , 重要的是 , 創新總是被吸引者 。
so many times , amateurs , not experts , have been the inventors and improvers of things ranging from mountain bikes to semiconductors , personal computers , airplanes .	很多時候 , 演員、個人電腦、飛機都不是專家 , 而是從山腳踏車到半導體、個人電腦、飛機 。
the biggest challenge is that material science is complex and requires expensive equipment .	最大的挑戰是 , 材料科學是複雜且需要昂貴的設備 。
but that's not always the case .	但這並不總是如此 。
two scientists at university of illinois understood this when they published a paper on a simpler method for making conductive ink .	伊利諾州大學的兩位科學家 , 他們發表了一篇論文 , 用簡單的方法來製造導電墨水 。
jordan bunker , who had had no experience with chemistry until then , read this paper and reproduced the experiment at his maker space using only offtheshelf substances and tools .	喬丹•布希克曾經歷過化學 , 直到讀了這篇論文和工具 , 完成了實驗的實驗 。
he used a toaster oven , and he even made his own vortex mixer , based on a tutorial by another scientist/maker .	他用了一個烤箱 , 甚至製造了自己的創作 , 他甚至製造了自己的蒸汽水 , 甚至製造了自己的蒸汽水 , 甚至製造了自己的蒸汽水 , 甚至製造了自己的蒸汽水 。
jordan then published his results online , including all the things he had tried and didn't work , so others could study and reproduce it .	約旦在網路上發表了他的結果 , 包括所有他曾經嘗試過的結果 , 而沒有工作 , 所以其他人可以研究並繁殖 。
so jordan's main form of innovation was to take an experiment created in a wellequipped lab at the university and recreate it in a garage in chicago using only cheap materials and tools he made himself .	喬丹的主要創新就是在一個實驗中創造出一個實驗 , 在芝加哥的實驗室建立了一個實驗 , 在芝加哥使用唯一便宜的材料和工具 , 讓他自己做 。
and now that he published this work , others can pick up where he left and devise even simpler processes and improvements .	現在 , 他發表了這份工作 , 其他人可以挑選他出版的作品 , 其他人可以選擇他出版的過程和改善 。
another example i'd like to mention her project's goal is to highlight the expressive qualities of materials while focusing on the creativity and skills of the builder .	另外一個例子 , 我想要提倡她的專案是要提高專注在創造力和技能上創造力和技能 。
electronics kits are very powerful in that they teach us how things work , but the constraints inherent in their design influence the way we learn .	電子裝置非常強大 , 教導我們學習如何運作 , 但在他們的設計中 , 教導我們如何運作 , 他們教導我們學習的方式 。
so hannah's approach , on the other hand , is to formulate a series of techniques for creating unusual objects that free us from predesigned constraints by teaching us about the materials themselves .	漢娜的另一方面 , 則是建立一系列的技術 , 來創造出不尋常物品的技巧 , 用來創造出不尋常的物品 , 用來創造出不尋常的物品 , 用來創造出不尋常的物品 , 用來創造出不尋常的物品 , 來協助我們製造出不尋常的物品 。
so amongst hannah's many impressive experiments , this is one of my favorites .	漢娜 , 這是我最喜歡的實驗之一 。
[ " paper speakers " ] what we're seeing here is just a piece of paper with some copper tape on it connected to an mp3 player and a magnet .	我們現在看到的只是一張紙 , 上面有一塊紙 , 上面有一些銅板 , 上面是一塊紙 , 上面有一塊紙 , 上面有一些銅板 , 上面有一些銅板 。
so based on the research by marcelo coelho from mit , hannah created a series of paper speakers out of a wide range of materials from simple copper tape to conductive fabric and ink .	因此 , 由於麻省理工學院的研究 , 漢娜創造了一系列的文件 , 用簡單的銅板指出的材料 , 來製造一系列的紙 , 用簡單的銅板來製造 , 來製造一系列的紙 。
just like jordan and so many other makers , hannah published her recipes and allows anyone to copy and reproduce them .	就像約旦和其他作家一樣 , 漢娜發表了她的文章 , 讓任何人都能複製並繁殖他們 。
but paper electronics is one of the most promising branches of material science in that it allows us to create cheaper and flexible electronics .	但紙電子是材料科學中最承諾的之一之一 , 它允許我們創造便宜且有彈性的電子 。
so hannah's artisanal work , and the fact that she shared her findings , opens the doors to a series of new possibilities that are both aesthetically appealing and innovative .	漢娜的作品 , 實際上她分享她的發現 , 開放了一系列新的可能性 , 包括美感和創新 。
so the interesting thing about makers is that we create out of passion and curiosity , and we are not afraid to fail .	有趣的是 , 我們創造出熱情和好奇心 , 我們不會害怕失敗 。
we often tackle problems from unconventional angles , and , in the process , end up discovering alternatives or even better ways to do things .	我們常常處理問題從不規定的角度來看 , 在過程中 , 最終發現了替代方案 , 甚至更好的方法來做事情 。
so the more people experiment with materials , the more researchers are willing to share their research , and manufacturers their knowledge , the better chances we have to create technologies that truly serve us all .	所以 , 越多的研究人員願意分享他們的研究 , 製造出自己的知識 , 越多的研究人員願意分享他們的研究 , 並製造出他們的知識 , 更好的機會 , 就能創造出科技 , 才能真正保存我們 。
so i feel a bit as ted nelson must have when , in the early 1970s , he wrote , " you must understand computers now . "	所以 , 我感覺有點像tednelson在1970年代初期所做的 , 他寫道: 「 你必須理解電腦 。 」
back then , computers were these large mainframes only scientists cared about , and no one dreamed of even having one at home .	那時 , 電腦是這些大型的主人 , 只有科學家關心 , 而沒有人夢想在家裡 。
so it's a little strange that i'm standing here and saying , " you must understand smart materials now . "	所以 , 這有點奇怪 , 我站在這裡說: 「 你必須了解智慧材料 。 」
just keep in mind that acquiring preemptive knowledge about emerging technologies is the best way to ensure that we have a say in the making of our future .	請記住 , 先知新興科技是最好的方法 , 來確保我們在未來的對話是有意義的 。
when we drive , we get into a glass bubble , lock the doors and press the accelerator , relying on our eyes to guide us even though we can only see the few cars ahead of and behind us . but what if cars could share data with each other about their position and velocity , and use predictive models to calculate the safest routes for everyone on the road ? jennifer healey imagines a world without accidents .	當我們開車時 , 我們會用預測模型來計算安全的安全路線 , 讓每個人在道路上 , 用預測模式來計算安全的路線 , 讓每個人在道路上 。 但如果車子可以跟我們分享資料 , 並且用預測模式來計算安全的路上每個人的安全軌道 , 不意外地 。
jennifer healey: if cars could talk , accidents might be avoidable	珍妮佛.赫爾:如果車子可以說話 , 意外可能會避免 。
let's face it: driving is dangerous .	咱們來面對:開車是危險的 。
it's one of the things that we don't like to think about , but the fact that religious icons and good luck charms show up on dashboards around the world betrays the fact that we know this to be true .	我們不想這樣做 , 但事實上 , 宗教信仰和幸運的地板在世界各地的地板上被我們所認知的事實證明了 。
car accidents are the leading cause of death in people ages 16 to 19 in the united states leading cause of death and 75 percent of these accidents have nothing to do with drugs or alcohol .	車禍是美國造成死亡率的75% , 造成死亡率和百分之七十五的死亡率 , 沒有任何藥物或酒精 。
no one can say for sure , but i remember my first accident .	沒有人可以說清楚 , 但我記得我第一次意外 。
i was a young driver out on the highway , and the car in front of me , i saw the brake lights go on .	我當時在高速公路上 , 車子在我面前 , 我看到布拉克燈亮了 。
i'm like , " okay , all right , this guy is slowing down , i'll slow down too . "	我說: 「 好吧 , 這傢伙慢慢下來 , 我會慢下來 。 」
i step on the brake .	我踏上腳踏車 。
but no , this guy isn't slowing down .	但不 , 這傢伙不會慢慢下來 。
this guy is stopping , dead stop , dead stop on the highway .	這傢伙停止 , 死亡停止 , 死停在高速公路上 。
it was just going 65 to zero ?	僅僅是65到零 ?
i slammed on the brakes .	我打掃了 。
i felt the abs kick in , and the car is still going , and it's not going to stop , and i know it's not going to stop , and the air bag deploys , the car is totaled , and fortunately , no one was hurt .	我知道它不會停下來 , 車子還會停下來 , 我知道它不會停下來 , 車子還會停下來 , 我知道它不會停下來 , 車子還會停下來 , 我知道它不會停下來 , 車子還會停下來 , 我知道它不會停下來 , 車子還會停下來 , 車子完全沒有人受傷 。
but i had no idea that car was stopping , and i think we can do a lot better than that .	但我不知道車子停止了 , 我認為我們可以做得更好 。
i think we can transform the driving experience by letting our cars talk to each other .	我認為我們可以改變駕駛經驗 , 讓車子互相交流 。
i just want you to think a little bit about what the experience of driving is like now .	我只是希望你們稍微想想一下 , 駕駛的經驗是什麼樣子 。
get into your car . close the door . you're in a glass bubble .	進入你的車 , 關上門 , 你在玻璃泡泡裡 。
you can't really directly sense the world around you .	你無法直接感受到你周遭的世界 。
you're in this extended body .	你在這個延伸的身體裡 。
you're tasked with navigating it down partiallyseen roadways , in and amongst other metal giants , at superhuman speeds .	你的工作任務 , 在超human的速度上 , 超human的速度 , 超human的速度 。
okay ? and all you have to guide you are your two eyes .	好嗎 ? 你必須指導你是兩個眼睛 。
okay , so that's all you have , eyes that weren't really designed for this task , but then people ask you to do things like , you want to make a lane change , what's the first thing they ask you do ?	沒錯 , 所有人都沒有設計這個任務 , 但人們要求你做些事情 , 例如:你要做些什麼 , 第一件你要做的事 。
take your eyes off the road . that's right .	把你的眼睛放在道路上 。 那是對的 。
stop looking where you're going , turn , check your blind spot , and drive down the road without looking where you're going .	停止看著你的盲點 , 向下走路 , 不要看你在哪裡 。
you and everyone else . this is the safe way to drive .	你們和其他人 , 這是安全的方法 。
why do we do this ? because we have to , we have to make a choice , do i look here or do i look here ?	為什麼我們要做呢 ? 因為我們必須做出選擇 , 我看看這裡嗎 ?
and usually we do a fantastic job picking and choosing what we attend to on the road .	通常我們會做一件很棒的工作 , 選擇我們在路上做些什麼 。
but occasionally we miss something .	但偶爾我們錯過了一些東西 。
occasionally we sense something wrong or too late .	偶爾我們會覺得錯了 , 或太遲 。
in countless accidents , the driver says , " i didn't see it coming . "	無數個意外 , 司機說: 「 我沒有看到它來了 。 」
and i believe that . i believe that .	我相信 , 我相信 。
we can only watch so much .	我們只能看得太多 。
but the technology exists now that can help us improve that .	但現在 , 科技可以協助我們改善 。
in the future , with cars exchanging data with each other , we will be able to see not just three cars ahead and three cars behind , to the right and left , all at the same time , bird's eye view , we will actually be able to see into those cars .	在未來 , 我們將能夠看見這些車子 , 不只在三輛車上 , 和左邊 , 同時 , 鳥類的眼睛 , 我們就能看見這些車子的外面 。
we will be able to see the velocity of the car in front of us , to see how fast that guy's going or stopping .	我們能看到在我們面前的車輛 , 看到車輛的速度是多快 , 或停止 。
if that guy's going down to zero , i'll know .	如果那個傢伙在零 , 我就會知道 。
and with computation and algorithms and predictive models , we will be able to see the future .	透過計算、演算法和預測模型 , 我們就能看到未來 。
you may think that's impossible .	你可能認為這是不可能的 。
how can you predict the future ? that's really hard .	你要如何預測未來 ? 這真的很困難 。
actually , no . with cars , it's not impossible .	實際上 , 不用車子 , 不可能 。
cars are threedimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity .	汽車是三維空間的物體 , 有著固定的位置和速度 。
they travel down roads .	他們在路邊走路 。
often they travel on prepublished routes .	通常他們會在公開的路上行駛 。
it's really not that hard to make reasonable predictions about where a car's going to be in the near future .	對於車子的未來來說 , 很難做出合理的預測 。
even if , when you're in your car and some motorcyclist comes bshoom ! 85 miles an hour down , lanesplitting i know you've had this experience that guy didn't " just come out of nowhere . "	即使 , 當你在車上 , 摩托車和摩托車 , 摩托車和摩托車 , 摩托車和摩托車 , 一小時後 , 我知道你有了這個經驗 , 沒有 「 只是從無人 」 來了 。
that guy's been on the road probably for the last half hour .	那個人已經在路上半小時了 。
right ? i mean , somebody's seen him .	對吧 ? 我的意思是 , 有人看過他 。
ten , 20 , 30 miles back , someone's seen that guy , and as soon as one car sees that guy and puts him on the map , he's on the map position , velocity , good estimate he'll continue going 85 miles an hour .	10、20、30英哩 , 有人看過這個傢伙 , 他在地圖上 , 地圖上 , 很快地圖上 , 他就在地圖上 , 地圖上 , 他在地圖上 , 很快地 , 他就在地圖上 , 直到地圖上 , 他在地圖上 , 很快地 , 他就在地圖上 。
you'll know , because your car will know , because that other car will have whispered something in his ear , like , " by the way , five minutes , motorcyclist , watch out . "	你會知道 , 因為那輛車會知道 , 因為那輛車會知道 , 因為那輛車會在他的耳朵中說: 「 五分鐘、摩托車、摩托車、摩托車 。 」
you can make reasonable predictions about how cars behave .	你可以做出合理的預測關於汽車的行為 。
i mean , they're newtonian objects .	我的意思是 , 它們是牛頓的物體 。
that's very nice about them .	這對他們來說很棒 。
so how do we get there ?	那麼 , 我們該怎麼辦到呢 ?
we can start with something as simple as sharing our position data between cars , just sharing gps .	我們可以從一些簡單的資料開始 , 只要分享我們在車輛的位置 , 分享的資料 。
if i have a gps and a camera in my car , i have a pretty precise idea of where i am and how fast i'm going .	如果我在車上有一台攝影機 , 我有一個很精確的點子 , 我有很精確的點子 , 我有很精確的點子 , 我有很精準的點子 , 我有很精確的點子 。
with computer vision , i can estimate where the cars around me are , sort of , and where they're going .	用電腦視覺 , 我可以估計我周圍的車子 , 和他們在哪裡 。
and same with the other cars .	和其他汽車一樣 。
they can have a precise idea of where they are , and sort of a vague idea of where the other cars are .	他們可以有精確的點子 , 和其他車輛的概念 。
what happens if two cars share that data , if they talk to each other ?	如果兩輛車子分享資料 , 如果他們互相對話 , 會怎麼辦 ?
i can tell you exactly what happens .	我可以告訴你發生了什麼事 。
professor bob wang and his team have done computer simulations of what happens when fuzzy estimates combine , even in light traffic , when cars just share gps data , and we've moved this research out of the computer simulation and into robot test beds that have the actual sensors that are in cars now on these robots: stereo cameras , gps , and the twodimensional laser range finders that are common in backup systems .	教授和他的團隊完成了電腦模擬結果 , 當汽車共享gps時 , 我們已經把這個研究應用在電腦模擬上 , 例如:鋼索攝影機、gps , 和電腦模擬測驗的同時 , 我們已經把這個研究應用在電腦模擬中 , 當汽車共享gps時 , 我們已經把這個研究應用在電腦模擬上 , 讓電腦模擬結果在兩位前面的感應器 , 正常用電腦模擬器 。
we also attach a discrete shortrange communication radio , and the robots talk to each other .	我們也用了微妙的溝通線索 , 機器人彼此互相溝通 。
when these robots come at each other , they track each other's position precisely , and they can avoid each other .	當這些機器人互相交流時 , 它們會追蹤彼此的位置 , 以避免彼此 。
we're now adding more and more robots into the mix , and we encountered some problems .	我們現在把更多的機器人加入混合物中 , 我們遇到了一些問題 。
one of the problems , when you get too much chatter , it's hard to process all the packets , so you have to prioritize , and that's where the predictive model helps you .	其中一個問題是 , 當你太太聊天的時候 , 很難處理所有的包包 , 所以你必須優先考慮 , 所以你必須優先考慮 。
if your robot cars are all tracking the predicted trajectories , you don't pay as much attention to those packets .	如果你的機器人卡車正在追蹤預測軌跡 , 你就不會注意到這些包裝 。
you prioritize the one guy who seems to be going a little off course .	你最先把一個人看得很小 。
that guy could be a problem .	這傢伙可能會是個問題 。
and you can predict the new trajectory .	你可以預測新的軌跡 。
so you don't only know that he's going off course , you know how .	所以你不只知道他會死去 , 你知道的 。
and you know which drivers you need to alert to get out of the way .	而你知道駕駛你需要什麼駕駛才能避免 。
and we wanted to do how can we best alert everyone ?	我們想要做的是如何讓每個人都能做到最好 ?
how can these cars whisper , " you need to get out of the way ? "	這些車子怎麼會說: 「 你得不得不得出路 ? 」
well , it depends on two things: one , the ability of the car , and second the ability of the driver .	嗯 , 它依賴兩件事:一個 , 汽車的能力 , 以及第二位駕駛的能力 。
if one guy has a really great car , but they're on their phone or , you know , doing something , they're not probably in the best position to react in an emergency .	如果一個人有很棒的車子 , 但他們在電話或你知道 , 做一些事情 , 他們不可能會在最好的位置上對緊急狀況做出反應 。
so we started a separate line of research doing driver state modeling .	所以我們開始了一系列的研究做司機狀態模型 。
and now , using a series of three cameras , we can detect if a driver is looking forward , looking away , looking down , on the phone , or having a cup of coffee .	現在 , 用一系列三台攝影機 , 我們能偵測到 , 駕駛者正在往前看 , 看著手機 , 或喝杯咖啡 。
we can predict the accident and we can predict who , which cars , are in the best position to move out of the way to calculate the safest route for everyone .	我們可以預測 , 誰 , 車子 , 最好的位置可以預測誰 , 車子在最好的位置 , 可以預測出誰 , 車子是最好的位置 , 可以預測誰 , 車子在最好的位置 , 可以預測出誰 , 車子在最好的位置 ,
fundamentally , these technologies exist today .	基本上 , 這些技術現在存在 。
i think the biggest problem that we face is our own willingness to share our data .	我認為我們所面對的最大問題 , 就是我們自己的願意分享我們的資料 。
i think it's a very disconcerting notion , this idea that our cars will be watching us , talking about us to other cars , that we'll be going down the road in a sea of gossip .	我覺得這是一個很不舒服的概念 , 這點子 , 我們的車子會看著我們 , 和其他車子一起走路 , 說我們會在海邊走路 。
but i believe it can be done in a way that protects our privacy , just like right now , when i look at your car from the outside , i don't really know about you .	但我相信它可以被用來保護我們的隱私 , 就像現在 , 當我看著你的車子時 , 我並不知道你 。
if i look at your license plate number , i don't really know who you are .	假如我看你的清單板數字 , 我不知道你是誰 。
i believe our cars can talk about us behind our backs .	我相信我們的車子可以在我們的背後背後面向 。
and i think it's going to be a great thing .	我認為這將會是一件很棒的事 。
i want you to consider for a moment if you really don't want the distracted teenager behind you to know that you're braking , that you're coming to a dead stop .	我想請各位想像一下 , 如果你真的不希望你被困擾的青少年 , 你會死去 , 停下來 。
by sharing our data willingly , we can do what's best for everyone .	透過分享我們的資料 , 我們就能為每個人做最好的事 。
so let your car gossip about you .	所以 , 咱們來看看你 。
it's going to make the roads a lot safer .	它會讓路更安全 。
x prize founder peter diamandis talks about how he helped stephen hawking fulfill his dream of going to space by flying together into the upper atmosphere and experiencing weightlessness at zero g .	xpringenhawkerpeterdiamandis談到他如何幫助史蒂芬•霍金斯說他如何幫助史蒂芬•霍金 , 讓太空飛上大氣層面 , 並且從中空中 , 以無形的速度 。
business , flight , science , short talk , space , technology , universe	企業、飛行、科學、短說、空間、科技、宇宙 。
peter diamandis on stephen hawking in zero g	peterdiamandis在史蒂芬•霍金 。
those of you who know me know how passionate i am about opening the space frontier .	認識我的人知道我很熱衷於開放空間前面 。
so when i had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity , it was incredible .	所以當我有機會給世界專家在重力的重力中 , 這真是不可思議 。
and i want to tell you that story .	我想告訴各位的故事 。
i first met him through the archon x prize for genomics .	我第一次見到他透過亞克遜xprize為基因組學 。
it's a competition we're holding , the second x prize , for the first team to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days .	這是我們競爭的競賽 , 第二個xprize , 第一組在10天內完成了人類基因組 。
we have something called the genome 100 100 individuals we're sequencing as part of that .	我們稱之為 「 基因組1000個個體 」 , 我們稱之為 「 基因組 」 。
craig venter chairs that event .	craigveter椅子 。
and i met professor hawking , and he said his dream was to travel into space .	我遇見了教授霍金 , 他說他的夢想是進入太空旅行 。
and i said , " i can't take you there , but i can take you into weightlessness into zerog .	我說: 「 我不能帶你 , 但我可以帶你到零g 。
and he said , on the spot , " absolutely , yes . "	他說: 「 絕對是 。 」
well , the only way to experience zerog on earth is actually with parabolic flight , weightless flight .	嗯 , 地球上唯一一種方式是自行飛行、無重的飛行 。
you take an airplane , you fly over the top , you're weightless for 25 seconds .	你拿飛機 , 飛到頂端 , 你就無25秒了 。
come back down , you weigh twice as much .	回到下面 , 你重重兩倍 。
you do it again and again .	再一次 , 再一次 。
you can get eight , 10 minutes of weightlessness how nasa's trained their astronauts for so long .	你能得到8 , 10分鐘 , 太空總署的太空人如何訓練他們太空人 。
we set out to do this .	我們開始做這件事 。
it took us 11 years to become operational .	我們花了11年的時間 , 才成為操作者 。
and we announced that we were going to fly stephen hawking .	我們宣佈我們要飛行史蒂芬霍金 。
we had one government agency and one company aircraft operator say , you're crazy , don't do that , you're going kill the guy .	我們有一個政府機構和一間公司飛機員說 , 你瘋狂 , 不要這樣做 , 你就瘋了 。
and he wanted to go .	他想去 。
we worked hard to get all the permissions .	我們努力得到所有許可 。
and six months later , we sat down at kennedy space center .	六個月後 , 我們坐在甘迺迪太空中心 。
we had a press conference , we announced our intent to do one zerog parabola , give him 25 seconds of zerog .	我們有個媒體會議 , 我們宣佈我們的專案 , 給他25秒的零g 。
and if it went really well , we might do three parabolas .	如果真的很好 , 我們可能會做三個癱瘓 。
well , we asked him why he wanted to go up and do this .	嗯 , 我們問他為什麼他想要去做這件事 。
and what he said , for me , was very moving .	他對我說 , 對我來說 , 是非常移動的 。
he said , " life on earth is at an everincreasing risk of being wiped out by disaster . . .	他說: 「 地球上生命的風險已經被災難所吸引 。 」
i think the human race doesn't have a future if it doesn't go into space .	我認為人類種族不會有未來 , 如果它沒有進入太空 。
i therefore want to encourage public interest in space . "	所以我想要鼓勵公眾利益參與空間 。 」
we took him out to the kennedy space center , up inside the nasa vehicle , into the back of the zerog airplane .	我們把他帶到肯定的太空中心 , 在太空中心 , 在太空中心 , 進入美國太空中心 , 進入太空中心 。
we had about 20 people who made donations we raised $150 , 000 in donations for children's charities who flew with us .	我們有大約20個人捐款給兒童慈善團體的慈善機構 。
a few tedsters here .	這裡有幾個tedsters 。
we set up a whole er .	我們設立了一整層樓 。
we had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane .	我們有四個急診室醫生和兩個護士坐在飛機上 。
we were monitoring his po2 of his blood , his heart rate , his blood pressure .	我們在監控他的血壓 , 他的心跳 , 他的血壓 。
we had everything all set in case of an emergency ; god knows , you don't want to hurt this worldrenowned expert .	我們都在緊急情況下發生了一切 , 上帝知道 , 你不想傷害這個世界的專家 。
we took off from the shuttle landing facility , where the shuttle takes off and lands .	我們從太空梭的飛行器上取出 , 那裡的停車場和陸地設施 。
and my partner byron lichtenberg and i carefully suspended him into zerog .	而我的夥伴 , 我很小心地把他變成0g 。
once he was there , [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like .	一旦他在那裡 , 他就讓他去體驗無所謂的重視 。
and after that first parabola , you know , the doc said everything is great . he was smiling , and we said go .	在那次的第一次癱瘓之後 , 醫生說一切都很棒 。 他微笑 , 我們說 。
so we did a second parabola .	所以我們做了第二個癱瘓 。
we actually floated an apple in homage to sir isaac newton because professor hawking holds the same chair at cambridge that isaac newton did .	我們其實在劍橋之中找到了一顆蘋果 , 因為教授霍金在劍橋的同一個椅子上發現 , 艾薩克•牛頓是這樣 。
and we did a fourth , and a fifth and a sixth .	我們做了第四個 , 第第四個 , 第五個和第六個 。
and a seventh and an eighth .	第七個和八個 。
and this man does not look like a 65yearold wheelchairbound man .	這個人看起來不像65歲輪椅的輪椅 。
he was so happy .	他很高興 。
we are living on a precious jewel , and it's during our lifetime that we're moving off this planet .	我們生活在一個珍貴的珠寶中 , 在我們的生命中 , 我們正處於一個珍貴的珠寶中 。
please join us in this epic adventure .	請加入我們這次的冒險 。
medical animator david bolinsky presents 3 minutes of stunning animation that show the bustling life inside a cell .	醫師davidbolinsky現在有三分鐘的刺激 , 顯示在細胞裡的生命 。
design , entertainment , film , health , medicine , science , technology , visualizations	設計、娛樂、電影、健康、醫學、科學、技術、視覺化 。
david bolinsky animates a cell	大衛•鮑林斯基y動畫了細胞 。
i'm a medical illustrator , and i come from a slightly different point of view .	我是醫學插圖師 , 我從不同的觀點來看 。
i've been watching , since i grew up , the expressions of truth and beauty in the arts and truth and beauty in the sciences .	我一直在看 , 我一直在看 , 從我長大後 , 真相和美麗在科學的表達、真相和美麗的表達 。
and while these are both wonderful things in their own right they both have very wonderful things going for them truth and beauty as ideals that can be looked at by the sciences and by math are almost like the ideal conjoined twins that a scientist would want to date .	雖然這些都是美麗的理想 , 由科學和數學 , 結合起來 , 真相和美麗的理想 , 是因為科學和數學的理想 , 其實是很美好的 , 由於科學和數學幾乎像理想的結合 , 會被科學和數學結合 。
these are expressions of truth as awefull things , by meaning they are things you can worship .	這些表達是真實的表情 , 說是真實的表達 , 意思是 , 你能做些什麼 。
they are ideals that are powerful . they are irreducible .	他們是很有力的 , 不可行的 。
they are unique . they are useful sometimes , often a long time after the fact .	它們是獨特的 , 有時常常很長一段時間 。
and you can actually roll some of the pictures now , because i don't want to look at me on the screen .	你現在可以從螢幕上看 , 因為我不想在螢幕上看我 。
truth and beauty are things that are often opaque to people who are not in the sciences .	真相和美麗是常常在科學領域中被忽略的 。
they are things that describe beauty in a way that is often only accessible if you understand the language and the syntax of the person who studies the subject in which truth and beauty is expressed .	他們是以一種方式來描述美麗的事物 , 尤其是當你了解語言和美麗的語言 , 和美麗的人們會被表達出來 。
if you look at the math , e=mc squared , if you look at the cosmological constant , where there's an anthropic ideal , where you see that life had to evolve from the numbers that describe the universe these are things that are really difficult to understand .	如果你看看數學的平方 , 假設你看到生命必須從數字描述宇宙的角度來解釋 , 宇宙中有著一個錯誤的理想 , 直到你看到生命必須從數字來描述宇宙 , 這些都是很難理解的 。
and what i've tried to do since i had my training as a medical illustrator since i was taught animation by my father , who was a sculptor and my visual mentor i wanted to figure out a way to help people understand truth and beauty in the biological sciences by using animation , by using pictures , by telling stories so that the things that are not necessarily evident to people can be brought forth , and can be taught , and can be understood .	自從我當作醫學博士時 , 我就被教導 , 透過使用動畫來幫助人們了解真相和美麗 , 透過使用影像 , 透過使用動畫 , 透過使用動畫 , 透過使用動畫 , 透過使用圖像 , 透過使用圖像 , 透過使用圖像 , 來幫助人們了解真相和美麗 , 透過利用動畫來幫助人們了解真相和美麗 , 透過利用動畫來幫助人們了解真相和美麗 , 透過使用動畫來幫助人們了解真相和美麗 。
students today are often immersed in an environment where what they learn is subjects that have truth and beauty embedded in them , but the way they're taught is compartmentalized and it's drawn down to the point where the truth and beauty are not always evident .	現今 , 學生們常常在一個環境中學習 , 他們所學到的是真相和美麗並不總是有證據 , 但他們被教導的事物是很有真相和美的 , 而不是總是有證據 。
it's almost like that old recipe for chicken soup where you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone .	幾乎就像是一塊雞肉的古老食譜 , 把雞黏到味道上 , 還沒錯 。
we don't want to do that to our students .	我們不想這樣做對我們的學生 。
so we have an opportunity to really open up education .	所以我們有機會去真正開放教育 。
and i had a telephone call from robert lue at harvard , in the molecular and cellular biology department , a couple of years ago . he asked me if my team and i would be interested and willing to really change how medical and scientific education is done at harvard .	我在哈佛大學的一間電話中提到哈佛大學的電話 。 他問我 , 我在哈佛大學的一間電話中 , 他問了我團隊 , 我有興趣且願意真正改變醫學和科學教育對哈佛的作用 。
so we embarked on a project that would explore the cell that would explore the truth and beauty inherent in molecular and cellular biology so that students could understand a larger picture that they could hang all of these facts on .	所以我們開始研究一個專案 , 研究細胞生物學的真相 , 讓學生可以理解更大的圖片 , 讓他們能夠理解更大的圖像 , 來探索這些事實 。
they could have a mental image of the cell as a large , bustling , hugely complicated city that's occupied by micromachines .	他們可以有心理圖像 , 一個大型複雜的城市 , 由微machine所造成的 。
and these micromachines really are at the heart of life .	這些微生物的心臟是生命的核心 。
these micromachines , which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over , are selfdirected , powerful , precise , accurate devices that are made out of strings of amino acids .	這些微型機制 , 是由胺基酸所組成的基礎、精準、精準、精準、精準、精準、精準、精準、精確的裝置 。
and these micromachines power how a cell moves .	這些微微m細胞移動的細節 。
they power how a cell replicates . they power our hearts .	它們能發送我們的心臟 。
they power our minds .	他們強力我們的心智 。
and so what we wanted to do was to figure out how we could make this story into an animation that would be the centerpiece of biovisions at harvard , which is a website that harvard has for its molecular and cellular biology students that will in addition to all the textual information , in addition to all the didactic stuff put everything together visually , so that these students would have an internalized view of what a cell really is in all of its truth and beauty , and be able to study with this view in mind , so that their imaginations would be sparked , so that their passions would be sparked and so that they would be able to go on and use these visions in their head to make new discoveries and to be able to find out , really , how life works .	所以我們想做的是 , 把這些視覺應用在腦袋裡 , 讓這些學生能夠找到真正的生命 , 像是哈佛大學的生物學學生 , 像是哈佛大學的博士學位 , 這些學生會被激發的觀點 , 將它們的視覺呈現出來 , 讓它們能夠真正地了解 , 生命如何讓這一切發生 , 真正的 , 生命是如何運作的 。
so we set out by looking at how these molecules are put together .	所以我們發現這些分子是如何組成的 。
we worked with a theme , which is , you've got macrophages that are streaming down a capillary , and they're touching the surface of the capillary wall , and they're picking up information from cells that are on the capillary wall , and they are given this information that there's an inflammation somewhere outside , where they can't see and sense .	我們做了一個主題 , 例如 , 牠們在骨骼的外面 , 看到和感知 , 牠們在附近的水面上 , 觀察到外面的細胞 , 裡面有噴霧器 , 牠們會從細胞中吸收到外面的細胞 , 而它們會從細胞中吸收到外面的資訊 , 牠們會被吸收到外面的細胞 , 牠們無法看見和感知 。
but they get the information that causes them to stop , causes them to internalize that they need to make all of the various parts that will cause them to change their shape , and try to get out of this capillary and find out what's going on .	但他們得到了這些資訊 , 讓它們能夠改變它們的形狀 , 來改變它們的形狀 , 讓它們改變它們的形狀 , 讓它們能夠改變它們的形狀 , 讓它們能夠改變它們的形狀 , 來改變它們的形狀 , 讓它們改變它們的形狀 。
so these molecular motors we had to work with the harvard scientists and databank models of the atomically accurate molecules and figure out how they moved , and figure out what they did .	所以這些分子馬達我們必須與哈佛科學家和資料庫的模型合作 , 找出它們如何移動 , 並找出它們是如何移動的 。
and figure out how to do this in a way that was truthful in that it imparted what was going on , but not so truthful that the compact crowding in a cell would prevent the vista from happening .	找出如何做到這一點 , 卻很有趣 , 卻不太有真理 , 會預防病毒發生的狀況 。
and so what i'm going to show you is a threeminute reader's digest version of the first aspect of this film that we produced . it's an ongoing project that's going to go another four or five years .	我要展示給你們看的 , 是我們製作的第一面鏡頭 , 它是一支三分鐘的閱讀器 , 它正在進行一個計畫 , 接下來要花四到五年的時間 。
and i want you to look at this and see the paths that the cell manufactures these little walking machines , they're called kinesins that take these huge loads that would challenge an ant in relative size .	我希望你們看看這個 , 看到這些小行走的路徑 , 他們稱之為 「 細菌 」 , 用這些巨大的道路來處理這些巨大的道路 , 它們會挑戰螞蟻相對較小的路徑 。
run the movie , please .	拍電影 , 拜託 。
but these machines that power the inside of the cells are really quite amazing , and they really are the basis of all life because all of these machines interact with each other .	但這些機器在細胞內部的運作 , 其實是非常驚人的 , 它們其實是生命的基礎 , 因為所有這些機器都能與彼此互動 。
they pass information to each other .	他們通過資訊傳遞訊息 。
they cause different things to happen inside the cell .	它們會造成不同的事情發生在細胞內 。
and the cell will actually manufacture the parts that it needs on the fly , from information that's brought from the nucleus by molecules that read the genes .	細胞會製造出這些部分 , 從資訊中從原子核的分子 , 到基因 , 到基因 。
no life , from the smallest life to everybody here , would be possible without these little micromachines .	沒有這些小小的生命 , 沒有這些小小的生命 , 沒有這些小小的生命 。
in fact , it would really , in the absence of these machines , have made the attendance here , chris , really quite sparse .	事實上 , 在這些機器中 , 克里斯 , 實際上 , 真的很不可思議 。
this is the fedex delivery guy of the cell .	這是fedex的dart細胞 。
this little guy is called the kinesin , and he pulls a sack that's full of brand new manufactured proteins to wherever it's needed in the cell whether it's to a membrane , whether it's to an organelle , whether it's to build something or repair something .	這個小傢伙叫做kinesin , 他採取了一堆新的製造蛋白質 , 包含所有品牌新製造的蛋白質 , 不管它是否需要細胞 , 不管是用細胞膜 , 或修復東西 。
and each of us has about 100 , 000 of these things running around , right now , inside each one of your 100 trillion cells .	我們每個人大約有十萬個這種東西正在運作 , 現在 , 在你一百兆個細胞中 。
so no matter how lazy you feel , you're not really intrinsically doing nothing .	所以不論你感覺到什麼 , 你都沒有什麼 。
so what i want you to do when you go home is think about this , and think about how powerful our cells are .	所以 , 當我回家想想看 , 我們的大腦有多強大 。
and think about some of the things that we're learning about cellular mechanics .	想想一些我們正在學習細胞機械的方法 。
once we figure out all that's going on and believe me , we know almost a percent of what's going on once we figure out what's going on , we're really going to be able to have a lot of control over what we do with our health , with what we do with future generations , and how long we're going to live .	一旦我們意識到 , 我們就知道 , 到底發生了什麼事 , 我們將會有多久 , 我們就能夠控制我們的健康和未來的世代 , 以及我們要怎麼做 。
and hopefully we'll be able to use this to discover more truth , and more beauty .	希望我們能用這個發現更多的真相 , 更美麗 。
but it's really quite amazing that these cells , these micromachines , are aware enough of what the cell needs that they do their bidding .	但真的很令人驚訝 , 這些細胞 , 這些細胞 , 需要這些微型的細胞 , 需要他們做些什麼 。
they work together . they make the cell do what it needs to do .	他們一起工作 , 讓細胞做得做的事 。
and their working together helps our bodies huge entities that they will never see function properly .	他們一起合作 , 協助我們的身體巨大 , 讓他們無法見見功能 。
enjoy the rest of the show . thank you .	享受剩餘的節目 。 謝謝 。
becky blanton planned to live in her van for a year and see the country , but when depression set in and her freelance job ended , her camping trip turned into homelessness . in this intimate talk , she describes her experience of becoming one of america's working homeless .	貝琪•布蘭頓計劃在她的旅館去年 , 看到國家 , 但當憂鬱症和她的婚姻在她的旅程結束時 , 她的經歷變成了無家可歸的 , 一個美好的家庭 。
adventure , happiness , life , personal growth , poverty , social change , society , storytelling	冒險、快樂、人生、個人成長、貧窮、社會變遷、社會變遷、社會變遷、社會變遷、社會變遷、社會變遷、社會變遷、社會變遷、社會、
becky blanton: the year i was homeless	貝琪.布朗頓:我無家可歸 。
i'm a writer and a journalist , and i'm also an insanely curious person , so in 22 years as a journalist , i've learned how to do a lot of new things .	我是個作家和記者 , 我知道如何做很多新的事 , 二十二年來當記者 , 我學到很多新事物 。
and three years ago , one of the things i learned how to do was to become invisible .	三年前 , 我學到要做的事是變成隱形 。
i became one of the working homeless .	我變成了無家可歸的一家 。
i quit my job as a newspaper editor after my father died in february of that same year , and decided to travel .	我辭掉我父親在二月份工作的報紙編輯 , 決定要旅行 。
his death hit me pretty hard .	他的死子非常辛苦 。
and there were a lot of things that i wanted to feel and deal with while i was doing that .	在我做這件事時 , 我想要感受到很多事情 。
i've camped my whole life . and i decided that living in a van for a year to do this would be like one long camping trip .	我一直都在旅行 。 我決定住在一個旅行的旅行中 , 一年會像一趟旅行 。
so i packed my cat , my rottweiler and my camping gear into a 1975 chevy van , and drove off into the sunset , having fully failed to realize three critical things .	所以我打包了我的貓 , 我的車子 , 開車到日子 , 完全失敗了三件重要的事情 。
one: that society equates living in a permanent structure , even a shack , with having value as a person .	第一:社會平均生活在永久的結構中 , 甚至是一個人 , 一個人的社會平等 。
two: i failed to realize how quickly the negative perceptions of other people can impact our reality , if we let it .	第二:我失敗了 , 了解到別人對別人的負面感知如何影響我們的現實 , 如果我們讓他人實現 。
three: i failed to realize that homelessness is an attitude , not a lifestyle .	第三:我失明無家可歸是態度 , 而不是生活方式 。
at first , living in the van was great .	第一 , 生活在火車上 。
i showered in campgrounds . i ate out regularly .	我在校園裡 , 常常打開 。
and i had time to relax and to grieve .	我有時間放鬆和悲慟 。
but then the anger and the depression about my father's death set in .	但 , 憤怒和憂鬱 , 是我父親的死亡 。
my freelance job ended . and i had to get a fulltime job to pay the bills .	我的自由工作結束了 。 我必須得到一份全職的工作 , 才能支付帳單 。
what had been a really mild spring turned into a miserably hot summer .	最近的熱夏天夏天是非常熱的夏天 。
and it became impossible to park anywhere without being very obvious that i had a cat and a dog with me , and it was really hot .	到公園裡 , 沒有很明顯的貓和狗狗和我一樣 , 真的很熱 。
the cat came and went through an open window in the van .	貓在火車上飛過了一輛開窗的窗戶 。
the doggy went into doggy day care .	狗狗在那天花了點心 。
whenever i could , i used employee showers in office buildings and truck stops .	每當我在辦公室大樓和卡車停車時 , 我會用員工來表演 。
or i washed up in public rest rooms .	或者我在公共場所的房間裡 。
nighttime temperatures in the van rarely dropped below 80 degrees fahrenheit , making it difficult or impossible to sleep .	夜晚時期的溫度高達80度以下降到華氏80度 , 讓它很難或不可能睡覺 。
food rotted in the heat .	食物是熱中的食物 。
ice in my ice chest melted within hours , and it was pretty miserable .	我冰冷的冰塊在三十幾小時內就變得很糟糕
i couldn't afford to find an apartment , or couldn't afford an apartment that would allow me to have the rottweiler and the cat .	我無法負擔得起一間公寓 , 不能負擔得起公寓 , 不能負擔得起公寓 , 不能負擔得起公寓 。
and i refused to give them up , so i stayed in the van .	我拒絕把它們放出來 , 所以我留在火車上 。
and when the heat made me too sick to walk the 50 feet to the public restroom outside my van at night , i used a bucket and a trash bag as a toilet .	當熱讓我太生病時 , 我用了一塊桶子 , 用一桶垃圾桶 , 用一桶垃圾桶 , 用一桶垃圾桶 。
when winter weather set in , the temperatures dropped below freezing . and they stayed there .	當冬天氣溫下降時 , 溫度下降了 , 溫度下降了 , 溫度下降了 。
and i faced a whole new set of challenges .	我面對了一個全新的挑戰 。
i parked a different place every night so i would avoid being noticed and hassled by the police .	我每天晚上都停下來 , 我會避免注意到 , 被警察攔截 。
i didn't always succeed .	我並不總是成功 。
but i felt out of control of my life .	但我感覺到我人生的掌控 。
and i don't know when or how it happened , but the speed at which i went from being a talented writer and journalist to being a homeless woman , living in a van , took my breath away .	我不知道 , 或它發生了什麼事 , 但後來我從一位有名的名作家和記者 , 變成了無家可歸的家人 , 和記者 , 身為無家可歸者 , 身為無家可歸者 , 身為一個無家可歸者 , 讓我呼吸 。
i hadn't changed . my i . q . hadn't dropped .	我沒有改變 。 我的智商 , 沒有變 。
my talent , my integrity , my values , everything about me remained the same .	我的天賦、我的價值觀、我的價值觀 , 所有我都不一樣的東西 。
but i had changed somehow .	但我已經改變了 。
i spiraled deeper and deeper into a depression .	我更深入憂鬱症 。
and eventually someone referred me to a homeless health clinic .	最後有人把我送到一個無家的健康診所 。
and i went . i hadn't bathed in three days .	我去了 , 三天內就沒有洗澡 。
i was as smelly and as depressed as anyone in line .	我和憂鬱症一樣 , 和憂鬱症的人一樣 。
i just wasn't drunk or high .	我只是沒有喝醉或高 。
and when several of the homeless men realized that , including a former university professor , they said , " you aren't homeless . why are you really here ? "	當幾位無家可歸的人發現 , 包括一位前大學教授 , 他們說: 「 你不是無家可歸 , 你為什麼會在這裡 ? 」
other homeless people didn't see me as homeless , but i did .	其他無家可歸的人 , 卻沒看到我 , 卻沒看見我 。
then the professor listened to my story and he said , " you have a job . you have hope .	接著教授聽我的故事 , 他說: 「 你有工作 。 你有希望 。
the real homeless don't have hope . "	真正的無家可歸沒有希望 。 」
a reaction to the medication the clinic gave me for my depression left me suicidal . and i remember thinking , " if i killed myself , no one would notice . "	藥品藥物給我的反應 , 讓我憂鬱症患了我自殺 , 我心想: 「 如果我殺了我 , 我還記得心想: 「 沒有人會注意到 。 」
a friend told me , shortly after that , that she had heard that tim russert , a nationally renowned journalist , had been talking about me on national t . v .	一個朋友告訴我 , 很久以前 , 她聽說 , 布魯斯特 , 一個全國性的記者 , 一直在談論我 , 全國的新聞報導 。
an essay i'd written about my father , the year before he died , was in tim's new book .	我寫了一篇文章 , 是在提姆的新書中 。
and he was doing the talk show circuit . and he was talking about my writing .	當時他正在談我的寫作 。
and when i realized that tim russert , former moderator of " meet the press , " was talking about my writing , while i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , i started laughing .	當我意識到timrussert在walmartstimrussertimrussertimrussertimrussertimrussertimrussertimrussertimrussertimrussertimrussertimrussertimrussertimrussert
i started laughing because it got to the point where , was i a writer , or was i a homeless woman ?	我開始笑 , 因為它到達那裡的地方 , 我是作家 , 還是我是無家可歸的女人 ?
so i went in the bookstore . and i found tim's book .	所以我去了書 , 我找到了tim的書 。
and i stood there . and i reread my essay .	我站在那裡 , 然後我把我的文字寫下來 。
because i was a writer .	因為我是作家 。
i was a writer .	我是作家 。
shortly after that i moved back to tennessee .	不久後 , 我搬到田納西 。
i alternated between living in a van and couch surfing with friends .	我生活在一個旅館裡 , 與朋友交流 。
and i started writing again .	我又開始寫作 。
by the summer of the following year i was a working journalist .	接下來的夏天 , 我是記者 。
i was winning awards . i was living in my own apartment .	我贏得獎勵 , 我住在我自己的公寓 。
i was no longer homeless .	我不再無家可歸 。
and i was no longer invisible .	我不再看不見了 。
thousands of people work full and parttime jobs , and live in their cars .	數以千計的人工作 , 生活在車子裡 。
but society continues to stigmatize and criminalize living in your vehicle or on the streets .	但社會持續犯罪化 , 或在車子上或街道上 。
so the homeless , the working homeless , primarily remain invisible .	所以 , 無家可歸、無家可歸 , 主要仍然隱形 。
but if you ever meet one , engage them , encourage them , and offer them hope .	但如果你見過一群人 , 他們鼓勵他們 , 鼓勵他們 , 鼓勵他們 , 鼓勵她們 , 鼓勵她們 , 鼓勵她們 。
the human spirit can overcome anything if it has hope .	人類精神可以克服任何事情 。
and i'm not here to be the poster girl for the homeless .	我不在這裡是無家可歸的女兒 。
i'm not here to encourage you to give money to the next panhandler you meet .	我不是在這裡鼓勵你去鼓勵你去給你所見的下一個巴哈德勒 。
but i am here to tell you that , based on my experience , people are not where they live , where they sleep , or what their life situation is at any given time .	但我在這裡要告訴各位的是 , 根據我的經驗 , 人們不是他們生活在哪裡 , 或他們生活在哪裡 , 或他們生活在哪裡 。
three years ago i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , and today i'm speaking at ted .	三年前我在walmart停車場停車場 , 今天我在ted演講 。
hope always , always finds a way . thank you .	希望總是總是找到方法 。 謝謝 。
at tedxchange , thailand's " mr . condom , " mechai viravaidya , walks us through the country's bold plan to raise its standard of living , starting in the 1970s . first step: population control . and that means a lot of frank , funny and very effective talk about condoms .	在tedxchange , tedxchange , thailand " mr. " dom , 美國的 「 domr 」 , 來源自於1970年代 , 第一步:人口控制 。 這意味著很多法蘭克 , 非常有效的談談保險套 。
culture , global issues , health , population , science	文化、全球議題、健康、人口、科學 。
mechai viravaidya: how mr . condom made thailand a better place	伊維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉維拉
now , when i was a young man 40 years ago , the country was very , very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty .	二十年前 , 我在貧窮時 , 許多人生活在貧窮 。
we decided to do something about it , but we didn't begin with a welfare program or a poverty reduction program .	我們決定要做點什麼 , 但我們沒有從福利計畫或貧窮的計畫開始 。
but we began with a familyplanning program , following a very successful maternal child health activity , sets of activities .	但我們從一個家庭規劃開始 , 追蹤一個非常成功的兒童健康活動 , 活動的活動 。
so basically , no one would accept family planning if their children didn't survive .	基本上 , 沒有人接受家庭規劃 , 如果他們的孩子沒有生存 。
so the first step: get to the children , get to the mothers , and then follow up with family planning .	第一步:讓孩子們接觸到母親 , 然後跟隨家庭計劃 。
not just child mortality alone , you need also family planning .	不僅僅是孩子的死亡率 , 你也需要家庭計劃 。
now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it .	現在 , 讓我帶各位回到我們為什麼要做這件事 。
in my country , that was the case in 1974 .	在我的國家 , 那是1974年的案例 。
seven children per family tremendous growth at 3 . 3 percent .	7個孩子在3.3%到3.3% 。
there was just no future .	沒有未來 。
we needed to reduce the population growth rate .	我們需要減少人口成長率 。
so we said , " let's do it . "	所以我們說: 「 咱們來做吧 。 」
the women said , " we agree . we'll use pills , but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills , " and we had very , very few doctors .	婦女說: 「 我們同意 , 我們會用藥丸 , 但我們需要醫生來開藥 。 」 我們很少醫生 。
we didn't take no as an answer ; we took no as a question .	我們沒有得到答案 , 我們不把問題當作一個問題 。
we went to the nurses and the midwives , who were also women , and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill .	我們去找護士和婦女 , 做了一個很棒的工作 , 來解釋如何使用藥丸 。
that was wonderful , but it covered only 20 percent of the country .	這很美妙 , 但它只佔了20%的國家 。
what do we do for the other 80 percent leave them alone and say , " well , they're not medical personnel . "	另外百分之八十的人會說: 「 嗯 , 他們不是醫療人員 。 」
no , we decided to do a bit more .	不 , 我們決定再做一點 。
so we went to the ordinary people that you saw .	所以 , 我們去了普通人你看到的 。
actually , below that yellow sign i wish they hadn't wiped that , because there was " cocacola " there .	事實上 , 在那黃色的標誌裡 , 我希望他們還沒拿過 , 因為有 「 cocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacoca
we were so much bigger than cocacola in those days .	那時我們比可口可樂還多 。
and no difference , the people they chose were the people we chose .	沒有差異 , 他們選擇的人民是我們選擇的 。
they were wellknown in the community , they knew that customers were always right , and they were terrific , and they practiced their family planning themselves .	在社區中 , 他們知道客戶通常是對的 , 他們知道客戶總是對的 , 他們很熟悉 , 客戶總是對的 , 他們知道客戶總是對的 , 他們知道客戶總是對的 , 他們知道客戶總是對的 , 他們知道客戶總是對的 , 他們知道客戶總是對的 , 他們很清楚 。
so they could supply pills and condoms throughout the country , in every village of the country .	所以他們可以供應藥丸和保險套在全國各地的村莊
so there we are . we went to the people who were seen as the cause of the problem to be the solution .	所以 , 我們去找那些被視為是解決方案的人 。
wherever there were people and you can see boats with the women , selling things here's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives wherever you find people , you'll find contraceptives in thailand .	不論你在哪裡 , 都能看到船隻 , 販賣香蕉、螃蟹 , 還有避孕法 , 你會在泰國買到的 , 賣出香蕉和螃蟹 。
and then we decided , why not get to religion because in the philippines , the catholic church was pretty strong , and thai people were buddhist .	然後我們決定 , 為什麼不去宗教 , 因為在菲律賓 , 天教教堂非常強壯 , 而泰國人是佛教徒 。
we went to them and they said , " look , could you help us ? "	我們去找他們 , 說: 「 看 , 你能幫我們嗎 ? 」
i'm there the one in blue , not the yellow holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to sprinkle holy water on pills and condoms for the sanctity of the family .	我是藍色的 , 不是黃色的 , 帶著一碗水 , 把酒水放在藥丸和保險套上 , 用在藥丸和保險套上 。
and this picture was sent throughout the country .	這張照片被送到整個國家 。
so some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves .	所以 , 村莊裡的一些猴子也做同樣的事 。
and the women were saying , " no wonder we have no sideeffects .	女人會說: 「 不知道我們有沒有副作用 。
it's been blessed . "	很有幸福 。 」
that was their perception .	那是他們的感知 。
and then we went to teachers .	然後我們去教師 。
you need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place .	你需要每個人參與嘗試提供任何東西 , 讓人類更好 。
so we went to the teachers .	所以我們去了教師 。
over a quarter of a million were taught about family planning with a new alphabet a , b for birth , c for condom , i for iud , v for vasectomy .	超過四分之一的收穫是關於家庭規劃 , 一個新的字母、a、b , 為生育 , 為了保險套 , 用新型的字母 。
and then we had a snakes and ladders game , where you throw dice .	接著 , 我們有蛇和梯子遊戲 , 你會丟掉 。
if you land on anything profamily planning , you move ahead .	若你在任何事前都行得通 , 你就向前邁進 。
like , " mother takes the pill every night .	比如 , 「 媽媽每天晚上吃藥丸 。
very good , mother . move ahead .	非常好 , 媽媽 , 向前走 。
uncle buys a condom . very good , uncle . move ahead .	叔叔買了保險套 , 很棒 , 叔叔 , 叔叔 。
uncle gets drunk , doesn't use condom . come back , start again . "	叔叔喝醉 , 不用保險套 , 再來一次 。 」
again , education , class entertainment .	再一次 , 教育 , 班娛樂 。
and the kids were doing it in school too .	孩子們也在學校做這件事 。
we had relay races with condoms , we had children's condomblowing championship .	我們有關於保險套的保險套 , 我們有孩子的保險套 。
and before long , the condom was know as the girl's best friend .	不久之後 , 保險套是女孩最好的朋友 。
in thailand , for poor people , diamonds don't make it so the condom is the girl's best friend .	在泰國 , 對窮人來說 , 鑽石不會讓保險套成為女孩最好的朋友 。
we introduced our first microcredit program in 1975 , and the women who organized it said , " we only want to lend to women who practice family planning .	我們在1975年提出了第一項微型信款計畫 , 她組織說: 「 我們只想讓女性參與 , 讓她們接受家規 。
if you're pregnant , take care of your pregnancy .	如果你懷孕 , 照顧懷孕 。
if you're not pregnant , you can take a loan out from us . "	如果你不懷孕 , 你可以拿出貸款 。 」
and that was run by them .	而那就是他們 。
and after 35/36 years , it's still going on .	經過35/35/35/35/35/35/35/35/35/3.
it's a part of the village development bank ; it's not a real bank , but it's a fund microcredit .	這是村村發展銀行的一部分 , 它不是真正的銀行 , 而是資金 。
and we didn't need a big organization to run it it was run by the villagers themselves .	我們不需要一個大型的組織來跑它 , 由村民自己組成 。
and you probably hardly see a thai man there , it's always women , women , women , women .	你可能很難看見一個泰國人 , 女人、女人、女人、女人 。
and then we thought we'd help america , because america's been helping everyone , whether they want help or not .	接著 , 我們認為我們會幫助美國 , 因為美國人在幫助每一個人 , 不論他們是否想要協助 。
and this is on the fourth of july .	這是在七月四日 。
we decided to provide vasectomy to all men , but in particular , american men to the front of the queue , right up to the ambassador's residence during his [unclear] .	我們決定提供給所有男性 , 但特別是美國人 , 在他前面的地毯 , 送給所有男性 , 尤其是美國男性在他的名單中 。
and the hotel gave us the ballroom for it very appropriate room .	飯店給了我們這間房間的房間 。
and since it was near lunch time , they said , " all right , we'll give you some lunch .	從那時起午餐時間 , 他們說: 「 好吧 , 我們會給你午餐時間 。
of course , it must be american cola .	當然 , 這一定是美國的cola 。
you get two brands , coke and pepsi .	有兩種品牌 , 可口可樂 , 可口可樂 。
and then the food is either hamburger or hotdog . "	食物是漢堡或熱門 。 」
and i thought a hotdog will be more symbolic .	我覺得熱狗會更具象徵性 。
and here is this , then , young man called willy bohm who worked for the usaid .	這是這個 , 接著 , 年輕男子稱作 「 ybohmybohm 」 。
obviously , he's had his vasectomy because his hotdog is half eaten , and he was very happy .	很明顯的 , 他有他的大麻木 , 他很開心 。
it made a lot of news in america , and it angered some people also .	在美國 , 憤怒的一些人也因此而憤怒 。
i said , " don't worry . come over and i'll do the whole lot of you . "	我說: 「 別擔心 , 我來了 。 」 「 別擔心 。 」
in all this thing , from seven children to 1 . 5 children , population growth rate of 3 . 3 to 0 . 5 .	從7個孩子到1.5個孩子 , 人口成長率是3.3.5倍 。
you could call it the cocacola approach if you like it was exactly the same thing .	你可以稱它為cocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocacocaco-
i'm not sure whether cocacola followed us , or we followed cocacola , but we're good friends .	我不知道卡卡卡柯拉是好的朋友 , 但我們是好朋友 。
and so that's the case of everyone joining in .	這就是每個人加入的例子 。
we didn't have a strong government . we didn't have lots of doctors .	我們沒有強大的政府 。 我們沒有很多醫生 。
but it's everybody's job who can change attitude and behavior .	但每個人都能改變態度和行為 。
then aids came along and hit thailand , and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight aids .	接著 , 愛滋病患者走到泰國 , 我們得要停止做很多好事來對抗愛滋病 。
but unfortunately , the government was in denial , denial , denial .	但不幸的是 , 政府在否認、否認、否認 。
so our work wasn't affected .	所以 , 我們的工作並沒有影響 。
so i thought , " well , if you can't go to the government , go to the military . "	所以我想: 「 好吧 , 如果你不能去政府 , 去軍隊 。 」
so i went to the military and asked to borrow 300 radio stations .	所以 , 我去了軍隊 , 要求借用三百台電台 。
they have more than the government , and they've got more guns than the government .	他們有更多的槍枝 , 而非政府政府 。
so i asked them , could they help us in our fight against hiv .	所以我問他們 , 他們能協助我們對抗愛滋病 。
and after i gave them statistics , they said , " yes . okay . you can use all the radio stations , television stations . "	在我給他們統計數據之後 , 他們說: 「 好的 , 你可以使用所有無線電站、電視台 。 」
and that's when we went onto the airwaves .	那時我們就去了空氣波 。
and then we got a new prime minister soon after that .	後來我們得到了一個新的總理 。
and he said , " mechai , could you come and join ? "	他說: 「 梅可 , 你可以加入嗎 ? 」
he asked me in because he liked my wife a lot .	他問我 , 因為他喜歡我太太 。
so i said , " okay . "	所以我說: 「 好吧 。 」
he became the chairman of the national aids committee and increased the budget fiftyfold .	他成為了國民援助委員會的主席 , 並增加預算的五倍 。
every ministry , even judges , had to be involved in aids education everyone and we said the public , institutions , religious institutions , schools everyone was involved .	每一份官員 , 甚至法官都需要參與援助教育 , 我們說 , 公共機構、機構、學校 , 所有人都參與了 。
and here , every media person had to be trained for hiv .	這裡 , 每個媒體人都必須被訓練愛滋病毒 。
and we gave every station half a minute extra for advertising to earn more money .	而我們給了每一份薪資 , 花了一半的時間以廣告賺錢 。
so they were happy with that .	所以他們很開心 。
and then aids education in all schools , starting from university .	接著 , 所有學校的教育都從大學開始 。
and these are high school kids teaching high school kids .	這些是高中孩子 , 高中畢業 。
and the best teachers were the girls , not the boys , and they were terrific .	最好的老師是女孩 , 不是男孩 , 她們是很棒的 。
and these girls who go around teaching about safe sex and hiv were known as mother theresa .	這些女孩們在教導關於安全性愛滋病的女孩 , 愛滋病毒被稱為 「 媽媽 」 。
and then we went down one more step .	然後我們再走下一步 。
these are primary school kids third , fourth grade going to every household in the village , every household in the whole of thailand , giving aids information and a condom to every household , given by these young kids .	主要的學校是三年級 , 四年級到每個家庭的家庭 , 給予援助資訊和保險套 , 提供援助資訊和保險套給每一個家庭 , 給予援助信息和保險套 , 給每個家庭 , 給予援助信息和保險套 , 給每個家庭提供援助信息和保險套 。
and no parents objected , because we were trying to save lives , and this was a lifesaver .	沒有家長 , 因為我們試圖拯救生命 , 這是一場生命 。
and we said , " everyone needs to be involved . "	我們說: 「 每個人都需要參與 。 」
so you have the companies also realizing that sick staff don't work , and dead customers don't buy .	所以 , 你有公司也意識到 , 生病員工沒有工作 , 消費者也不用 。
so they all trained .	所以他們都訓練了 。
and then we have this captain condom , with his harvard mba , going to schools and night spots .	然後我們有了這套保險套 , 和他的哈佛大學mba , 去學校和晚點 。
and they loved him . you need a symbol of something .	他們很愛他 。 你需要一個符號 。
in every country , every program , you need a symbol , and this is probably the best thing he's ever done with his mba .	在每個國家 , 每個國家 , 你需要一個符號 , 這可能是他和他的mba最好的做法 。
and then we gave condoms out everywhere on the streets everywhere , everywhere .	然後我們在街頭上都待在街上 , 任何地方 , 到處都有 。
in taxis , you get condoms .	在稅收中 , 你保持保險套 。
and also , in traffic , the policemen give you condoms our " cops and rubbers " programs .	同時 , 在交通上 , 警察會給你保證: 「 警察 」 和 「 警察 」 的程式 。
so , can you imagine new york policemen giving out condoms ?	所以 , 你能想像紐約警察開放了保險套嗎 ?
of course i can . and they'd enjoy it immensely ; i see them standing around right now , everywhere .	當然我可以 。 而且他們很享受它 。 我很享受它 , 每一刻都不見得 。
imagine if they had condoms , giving out to all sorts of people .	想像一下 , 如果他們有保險套 , 提供給所有人 。
and then , new change , we had hair bands , clothing and the condom for your mobile phone during the rainy season .	接著 , 新的改變 , 我們有毛髮、衣服、衣服 , 和保險套 , 在雨季節目中出現 。
and these were the condoms that we introduced .	這些都是我們所介紹的 。
one says , " weapon of mass protection . "	有人說: 「 武器大量保護 」 。
we found you know somebody here was searching for the weapon of mass destruction , but we have found the weapon of mass protection: the condom .	我們知道有人在搜尋武器大規模的武器 , 但是我們發現了大規模毀滅的武器 , 我們發現了大規模毀滅的武器 , 我們發現了大規模毀滅的武器 。
and then it says here , with the american flag , " don't leave home without it . "	然後 , 這裡有美國國旗 , 「 不要離開家 , 不要離開家 。 」
but i have some to give out afterward .	但我有一些要向前走 。
but let me warn you , these are thaisized , so be very careful .	但 , 讓我來警告各位 , 這些是非常小心的 。
and so you can see that condoms can do so many things .	所以你可以看到 , 保險套可以做很多事情 。
look at this i gave this to al gore and to bill senior also .	看看這個 , 我給了艾倫坡和比爾的高爾 。
stop global warming ; use condoms .	停止全球暖化 ; 使用保險套 。
and then this is the picture i mentioned to you the weapon of mass protection .	這是我剛剛提到的 , 大規模保護的圖片 。
and let the next olympics save some lives .	下一個奧運會拯救一些生命 。
why just run around ?	為何要跑呢 ?
and then finally , in thailand we're buddhist , we don't have a god , so instead , we say , " in rubber we trust . "	最後 , 在泰國 , 我們是佛教徒 , 我們沒有上帝 , 所以 , 我們說 , 我們是佛教徒 , 我們沒有神 。 」
so you can see that we added everything to our endeavor to make life better for the people .	你可以看到 , 我們加上了所有東西 , 讓生命變得更好 。
we had condoms in all the refrigerators in the hotels and the schools , because alcohol impairs judgment .	我們在旅館和學校裡都有保險套 , 因為酒精改善的判斷 。
and then what happened ?	然後發生了什麼事 ?
after all this time , everybody joined in .	在這之後 , 每個人都加入了 。
according to the u . n . , new cases of hiv declined by 90 percent , and according to the world bank , 7 . 7 million lives were saved .	根據聯合國的報導 , 根據世界銀行 , 770萬人的生命被拯救了 。
otherwise there wouldn't be many thais walking around today .	除此之外 , 今日不會有太多泰國走路 。
so it just showed you , you could do something about it .	所以這只是給你看 , 你可以做點什麼 。
90 percent of the funding came from thailand .	90%的資金來自泰國 。
there was political commitment , some financial commitment , and everybody joined in the fight .	有政治承諾 , 一些財務承諾 , 每個人都加入在戰鬥中 。
so just don't leave it to the specialists and doctors and nurses .	所以 , 不要留給專家、醫生和護士 。
we all need to help .	我們都需要幫助 。
and then we decided to help people out of poverty , now that we got aids somewhat out of the way this time , not with government alone , but in cooperation with the business community .	接著 , 我們決定幫助貧窮的人 , 現在我們有援助 , 不是政府孤單 , 而是與企業社群合作 。
because poor people are business people who lack business skills and access to credit .	因為窮人是商業缺乏商業技能和取得信仰的人 。
those are the things to be provided by the business community .	這些是商業社區所提供的 。
we're trying to turn them into barefoot entrepreneurs , little business people .	我們試著把它們轉變成基礎創業家 , 小企業家 。
the only way out of poverty is through business enterprise .	貧窮的唯一方法就是透過企業企業企業 。
so , that was done .	所以 , 完成了 。
the money goes from the company into the village via treeplanting .	錢從公司到村莊 , 到村落 。
it's not a free gift .	這不是自由禮物 。
they plant the trees , and the money goes into their microcredit fund , which we call the village development bank .	他們把樹木丟進他們的微型資金中 , 我們稱之為村莊發展銀行 。
everybody joins in , and they feel they own the bank , because they have brought the money in .	每個人都加入 , 他們覺得自己銀行 , 因為他們把錢帶進來 。
and before you can borrow the money , you need to be trained .	在你能借錢之前 , 你需要被訓練 。
and we believe if you want to help the poor , those who are living in poverty , access to credit must be a human right .	我們相信如果你想要幫助窮人 , 那些住在貧窮的貧窮 , 那些住在貧窮的人 , 那些住在貧窮的貧窮的人 , 可以得到信任 。
access to credit must be a human right .	取得信仰必須成為人權 。
otherwise they'll never get out of poverty .	否則他們永遠不會脫離貧窮 。
and then before getting a loan , you must be trained .	在貸款之前 , 你必須被訓練 。
here's what we call a " barefoot mba , " teaching people how to do business so that , when they borrow money , they'll succeed with the business .	我們稱之為 「 巴黎明白 」 , 教導人們如何做企業 , 當他們借錢時 , 他們就會成功 。
these are some of the businesses: mushrooms , crabs , vegetables , trees , fruits , and this is very interesting nike ice cream and nike biscuits ; this is a village sponsored by nike .	這裡有一些商品:蘑菇、螃蟹、蔬菜、樹木、蔬菜、樹木、蔬菜、樹木 , 很有趣的nikebiscuit 。 這是個很有趣的nikebiscuit 。
they said , " they should stop making shoes and clothes .	他們說: 「 他們不該停止鞋子和衣服 。
make these better , because we can afford them . "	做得更好 , 因為我們負擔得起 。 」
and then we have silk , thai silk .	然後我們有絲 , thaisilk 。
now we're making scottish tartans , as you can see on the left , to sell to all people of scottish ancestors .	現在我們正在製作蘇格蘭的沙漠 , 你可以看到左邊 , 賣給所有蘇格蘭人 。
so anyone sitting in and watching tv , get in touch with me .	所以任何人坐在看著電視上 , 跟我一起看電視 。
and then this is our answer to starbucks in thailand " coffee and condoms . "	這是我們在thailand " 咖啡和保險套 " 的答案 。
see , starbucks you awake , we keep you awake and alive .	看 , 星巴克你醒來 , 還會讓你醒來 。
can you imagine , at every starbucks that you can also get condoms ?	你能想像 , 每顆星巴克都能得到保險套嗎 ?
you can order your condoms with your with your cappuccino .	你可以把你的保險套帶到你的保險箱裡 。
and then now , finally in education , we want to change the school as being underutilized into a place where it's a lifelong learning center for everyone .	最後 , 在教育上 , 我們想要改變學校 , 變成一個地方 , 成為一個地方 , 讓每個人都在學習中心 。
we call this our schoolbased integrated rural development .	我們稱之為學校為基礎的整合農村發展 。
and it's a center , a focal point for economic and social development .	它是經濟和社會發展的中心 。
redo the school , make it serve the community needs .	重新學校 , 讓它服務社區需求 。
and here is a bamboo building all of them are bamboo .	這裡是竹子 , 竹子是竹子 。
this is a geodesic dome made of bamboo .	這是竹子製造竹子 。
and i'm sure buckminster fuller would be very , very proud to see a bamboo geodesic dome .	我確保布克敏斯特會很驕傲地看到一個竹子的竹子 。
and we use vegetables around the school ground , so they raise their own vegetables .	我們在學校地上用蔬菜 , 這樣他們就養育自己的蔬菜 。
and then , finally , i firmly believe , if we want the mdgs to work the millennium development goals we need to add family planning to it .	最後 , 我堅信 , 如果我們想要mdgs我們需要加上家庭計劃 , 才能達到數千禧發展目標 。
of course , child mortality first and then family planning everyone needs family planning service it's underutilized .	當然 , 兒童死亡率 , 首先 , 家庭計劃需要家庭規劃 , 讓每個人都需要家庭計劃 。
so we have now found the weapon of mass protection .	所以 , 我們現在發現武器大量保護 。
and we also ask the next olympics to be involved in saving lives .	我們也要求下一個奧林匹克來參與拯救生命 。
and then , finally , that is our network .	最後 , 這就是我們的網路 。
and these are our thai tulips .	這些是我們的thaithai 。
thank you very much indeed .	非常謝謝你們 。
your smartphone may feel like a friend but a true friend would give you a smile once in a while . at ted2013 , keller rinaudo demos romo , the smartphonepowered mini robot who can motor along with you on a walk , slide you a cup of coffee across the table , and react to you with programmable expressions .	你的智慧型手機可能感覺好像朋友 , 但一個朋友 , 會給你一杯咖啡 , 在ted2013年 , ted2013 , 克萊納多德莫斯羅姆.羅姆.羅mo , 智慧型手機 , 一個朋友 , 會給你一杯咖啡 , 在ted2013年 , 凱勒.羅莫斯.羅莫斯.羅莫斯.羅姆.羅姆.羅姆.羅莫斯.羅姆.羅姆.羅莫斯.羅莫斯.羅莫斯.羅莫斯.羅莫斯.羅莫斯.羅莫斯.羅莫斯.羅莫斯.羅莫斯.羅倫.
keller rinaudo: a mini robot powered by your phone	凱勒•崔娜:一個礦工智慧機器人 , 由你的手機組成 。
so just by a show of hands , how many of you all have a robot at home ?	舉例來說 , 有多少人在家裡有機器人 ?
not very many of you .	不太多人 。
okay . and actually of those hands , if you don't include roomba how many of you have a robot at home ?	好吧 , 實際上 , 那些手 , 如果你不包含房間裡有多少人有機器人在家裡呢 ?
that's the problem that we're trying to solve at romotive that i and the other 20 nerds at romotive are obsessed with solving .	這就是我們正在努力解決的問題 , 同時我和其他20位在romott工作的專家 , 正在努力解決這個問題 。
so we really want to build a robot that anyone can use , whether you're eight or 80 .	所以我們真的想要建造一個機器人 , 任何人都可以使用 , 不論你八十歲 。
and as it turns out , that's a really hard problem , because you have to build a small , portable robot that's not only really affordable , but it has to be something that people actually want to take home and have around their kids .	結果發現 , 這是一個非常困難的問題 , 因為你必須建造一個小型、可攜帶的機器人 , 不僅僅是負擔得起的 , 而且它必須成為人們真正想要帶回家和孩子的孩子 。
this robot can't be creepy or uncanny .	這個機器人無法承認或不可思議 。
he should be friendly and cute .	他應該是友善且可愛 。
romo's a robot that uses a device you already know and love your iphone as his brain .	羅姆的機器人是用一個裝置你已經知道和愛你的iphone的機器人 。
and by leveraging the power of the iphone's processor , we can create a robot that is wifi enabled and computer visioncapable for 150 bucks , which is about one percent of what these kinds of robots have cost in the past .	透過使用iphone處理器的力量 , 我們就能創造出一個機器人 , 可以創造出一個機器人 , 可以在過去 , 使用iphone處理器的力量 , 我們就能創造一個機器人 , 裡面有超過150美元 , 這種機器人在過去有150美元 。
when romo wakes up , he's in creature mode .	當羅馬登入時 , 他就在創造模式 。
so he's actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face .	所以他實際上用攝影機來追蹤我的臉 。
if i duck down , he'll follow me .	如果我走下去 , 他會跟著我 。
he's wary , so he'll keep his eyes on me .	他很溫暖 , 所以他會保持他的眼睛 。
if i come over here , he'll turn to follow me .	如果我來到這裡 , 他會轉向我 。
if i come over here he's smart .	如果我來到這裡 , 他很聰明 。
and if i get too close to him , he gets scared just like any other creature .	如果我太接近他 , 他就會害怕就像其他生物一樣 。
so in a lot of ways , romo is like a pet that has a mind of his own .	所以 , 在很多方面 , 羅馬就像一隻寵物一樣 , 羅馬就像一隻寵物一樣 。
thanks , little guy .	謝謝 , 小傢伙 。
and if i want to explore the world uhoh , romo's tired if i want to explore the world with romo , i can actually connect him from any other ios device .	如果我想要探索世界 , 羅馬比我想要探究世界 , 羅馬很想探索這個世界 , 我真的可以把他從任何其他ios裝置連結起來 。
so here's the ipad .	這是ipad 。
and romo will actually stream video to this device .	羅馬會把影片帶到這個裝置 。
so i can see everything that romo sees , and i get a robot'seyeview of the world .	所以 , 我可以看見所有romo看到的一切 , 然後我得到了機器人的世界 。
now this is a free app on the app store , so if any of you guys had this app on your phones , we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together .	這是一個免費應用程式的應用程式 , 如果你們有任何人在手機上使用這個應用程式 , 那麼 , 我們現在可以在你的手機上使用這個應用程式 , 所以 , 如果你們有任何人在手機上使用手機 , 我們就可以真正地控制機器人和玩遊戲 。
so i'll show you really quickly , romo actually he's streaming video , so you can see me and the entire ted audience .	接下來我會播放一段影片 , 所以你可以看見我和ted觀眾 。
if i get in front of romo here .	如果我站在romo這裡 。
and if i want to control him , i can just drive .	如果我想要控制他 , 我就可以開車 。
so i can drive him around , and i can take pictures of you .	所以 , 我可以駕駛他 , 我可以拍照你 。
i've always wanted a picture of a 1 , 500person ted audience .	我一直想要一張1500人的照片 。
so i'll snap a picture .	我會拍一張照片 。
and in the same way that you scroll through content on an ipad , i can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device .	同樣地 , 在ipad上 , 我可以調整一下攝影機的角度來調整這個角度 。
so there are all of you through romo's eyes .	所以 , 在羅姆的眼睛中 , 你都看到了romo的眼睛 。
and finally , because romo is an extension of me , i can express myself through his emotions .	最後 , 因為romo是我的延伸 , 我可以表達自己自己透過他的情緒 。
so i can go in and i can say let's make romo excited .	所以 , 我可以說 , 我可以說 , 讓我們讓romo興奮 。
but the most important thing about romo is that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive .	但關於romo最重要的事情是我們想要創造出完全完全直覺的東西 。
you do not have to teach someone how to drive romo .	你不需要教導別人如何駕駛romo 。
in fact , who would like to drive a robot ?	事實上 , 誰會喜歡駕駛機器人 ?
thank you , scott .	謝謝 , 史考特 。
and even cooler , you actually don't have to be in the same geographic location as the robot to control him .	更酷的是 , 你其實不需要在同一個地理位置 , 例如機器人控制他 。
so he actually streams twoway audio and video between any two smart devices .	所以他實際上在兩個聰明裝置之間傳播兩種智慧設備 。
so you can log in through the browser , and it's kind of like skype on wheels .	所以你可以用瀏覽器 , 它就像在輪子的天花板 。
so we were talking before about telepresence , and this is a really cool example .	所以 , 我們在談話題時 , 其實是很酷的例子 。
you can imagine an eightyearold girl , for example , who has an iphone , and her mom buys her a robot .	你可以想像一個八歲的女孩 , 例如有iphone , 她媽媽買她的機器人 。
that girl can take her iphone , put it on the robot , send an email to grandma , who lives on the other side of the country .	那個女孩可以拿她的iphone , 把它放在機器人上 , 寄電子郵件給祖母 , 住在國家的另一邊 。
grandma can log into that robot and play hideandgoseek with her granddaughter for fifteen minutes every single night , when otherwise she might only be able to get to see her granddaughter once or twice a year .	祖母可以用她的孫女去看她的孫女 , 每天晚上兩次 , 只能看到她的孫女 , 或兩次 。
so those are a couple of the really cool things that romo can do today .	所以 , 這些是現今羅馬最酷的事情之一 。
but i just want to finish by talking about something that we're working on in the future .	最後 , 我想談談我們在未來所做的事 。
this is actually something that one of our engineers , dom , built in a weekend .	這是我們的工程師 , 一個星期末 。
it's built on top of a google open framework called blockly .	它在google開放的架構上 , 叫做 「 區塊 」 。
this allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic code and create any behavior for this robot you want .	這使得你要把石塊拆開 , 讓你想要 , 把這些零件混合在一起 , 創造出任何行為 。
you do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for romo .	你不需要知道如何編碼如何編碼為romo創造一個行為 。
and you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser , which is what you see romo doing on the left .	你可以實際模擬這種行為在瀏覽器中可以看到romo在左邊做的
and then if you have something you like , you can download it onto your robot and execute it in real life , run the program in real life .	如果你有一些你喜歡的東西 , 你可以下載到你的機器人上 , 去執行現實生活的程式 。
and then if you have something you're proud of , you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world .	如果你有一些你很驕傲的事 , 你可以和其他人分享它 , 在世界各地的機器人 。
so all of these wifi–enabled robots actually learn from each other .	所以 , 所有的這些線性機器人都能從彼此學習 。
the reason we're so focused on building robots that everyone can train is that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal .	我們非常專注於建造機器人的每一個人 , 每個人都能訓練 , 是我們認為最有用的個人機器人是個人機械的 。
they change from person to person .	他們從人身上改變 。
so we think that if you're going to have a robot in your home , that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination .	所以 , 我們認為如果你在你的家裡有一個機器人 , 機器人應該是你自己的想像力 。
so i wish that i could tell you what the future of personal robotics looks like .	所以 , 我希望我能告訴你未來的個人機器人的樣子 。
to be honest , i have no idea .	老實說 , 我不知道 。
but what we do know is that it isn't 10 years or 10 billion dollars or a large humanoid robot away .	但我們知道的 , 不是10億美金或大型人工機器人 。
the future of personal robotics is happening today , and it's going to depend on small , agile robots like romo and the creativity of people like yourselves .	個人機器人的未來 , 將會依賴小型的機器人 , 像是romo和創造力的人 , 像你自己一樣 。
so we can't wait to get you all robots , and we can't wait to see what you build .	所以 , 我們等不及等待你看到你建造的東西 。
author and activist isabel allende discusses women , creativity , the definition of feminism and , of course , passion in this talk .	作者和行動主義者 , 對於女性主義的定義 , 當然 , 熱情在這個演說中 。
entertainment , global issues , love , parenting , storytelling , women , world cultures	娛樂、全球性議題、愛、養育、故事、女人、世界文化 。
isabel allende tells tales of passion	伊莎貝爾•艾爾維爾說出了關於熱情的訊息 。
thank you so much . it's really scary to be here among the smartest of the smart .	非常謝謝你 , 非常可怕 , 來到這裡 , 非常可怕 。
i'm here to tell you a few tales of passion .	我在這裡要告訴各位一些關於熱情的熱情 。
there's a jewish saying that i love .	有一個猶太人說我愛 。
what is truer than truth ? answer: the story .	什麼比真相呢 ? 答案是:故事 。
i'm a storyteller . i want to convey something that is truer than truth about our common humanity .	我是說故事者 , 我想要傳達出我們常常人類的真相 。
all stories interest me , and some haunt me until i end up writing them .	所有故事都對我有興趣 , 直到我最後寫了它們 。
certain themes keep coming up: justice , loyalty , violence , death , political and social issues , freedom .	有些人會繼續出現:正義、忠誠、暴力、死亡、政治和社會議題 , 自由 。
i'm aware of the mystery around us , so i write about coincidences , premonitions , emotions , dreams , the power of nature , magic .	我意識到我們周遭的神秘 , 所以我寫了關於巧合、情緒、夢想、魔法的力量 。
in the last 20 years i have published a few books , but i have lived in anonymity until february of 2006 , when i carried the olympic flag in the winter olympics in italy .	在過去20年 , 我發表了幾本書 , 但在2006年 , 我在義大利的奧林匹克州贏家奧運會發表了幾本書 。
that made me a celebrity . now people recognize me in macy's , and my grandchildren think that i'm cool .	這使我成為了名人 。 現在人們認識我在馬西 , 我的孫子認為我很酷 。
allow me to tell you about my four minutes of fame .	讓我告訴你們關於我四分鐘的信息 。
one of the organizers of the olympic ceremony , of the opening ceremony , called me and said that i had been selected to be one of the flagbearers .	奧林匹克法典禮儀的其中一位參選者 , 叫做我被選為是旗幟之一 。
i replied that surely this was a case of mistaken identity because i'm as far as you can get from being an athlete .	我複製說 , 這是錯誤的認知 , 因為我身分很遠 , 可以從運動員身上得到運動 。
actually , i wasn't even sure that i could go around the stadium without a walker .	實際上 , 我甚至不確定我可以在座位上游泳 , 沒有人走路 。
i was told that this was no laughing matter .	我被告知這不是笑聲 。
this would be the first time that only women would carry the olympic flag .	這是第一次 , 只有女性會帶著奧運旗幟 。
five women , representing five continents , and three olympic gold medal winners .	五個女性 , 代表五個大陸 , 還有三位奧林匹克贏家 。
my first question was , naturally , what was i going to wear ?	我的第一個問題是 , 天然 , 我會穿什麼 ?
a uniform , she said , and asked for my measurements .	一個制服 , 她說 , 請求我的衡量 。
i had a vision of myself in a fluffy anorak , looking like the michelin man .	我對我自己有一個視覺 , 看起來像米契林人 。
by the middle of february , i found myself in turin , where enthusiastic crowds cheered when any of the 80 olympic teams was in the street .	在二月時 , 我發現我自己在街頭 , 那裡有熱情的群眾 , 每八十個奧林匹克在街上 , 都在街上遊行 。
those athletes had sacrificed everything to compete in the games .	那些運動員已經犧牲了一切在遊戲中競爭 。
they all deserved to win , but there's the element of luck .	他們都應該贏 , 但有幸運的運算 。
a speck of snow , an inch of ice , the force of the wind , can determine the result of a race or a game .	一片冰層的風力 , 風的力量 , 可以決定結果 , 或比賽的力量 。
however , what matters most more than training or luck is the heart .	然而 , 最重要的訓練或運氣是心臟 。
only a fearless and determined heart will get the gold medal .	只有無懼且堅定的心臟會得到金牌 。
it is all about passion .	重點是關於熱情 。
the streets of turin were covered with red posters announcing the slogan of the olympics .	土耳其覆蓋著紅色海報 , 宣佈了奧林匹克的圖表 。
passion lives here . isn't it always true ?	熱情生活在這裡 , 不是總是真的嗎 ?
heart is what drives us and determines our fate .	心臟是驅動我們並決定我們的命運 。
that is what i need for my characters in my books: a passionate heart .	這就是我在書中所需要的:熱情心臟 。
i need mavericks , dissidents , adventurers , outsiders and rebels , who ask questions , bend the rules and take risks .	我需要mavericks、外國人、外叛者、外觀者、外叛者、外叛者、外叛者、外叛者、外叛者、外叛者、外叛者、外叛者、外叛者、外叛者、外叛者、外叛者、外叛者 , 會問問題:
people like all of you in this room .	像在座的各位一樣 。
nice people with common sense do not make interesting characters .	很有趣的人 , 都不會做出有趣的角色 。
they only make good former spouses .	牠們只會做出好前的配偶 。
in the green room of the stadium , i met the other flag bearers: three athletes , and the actresses susan sarandon and sophia loren .	在溫室 , 我遇見了其他旗幟:三項運動員 , 和蘇菲亞•洛倫 。
also , two women with passionate hearts: wangari maathai , the nobel prizewinner from kenya who has planted 30 million trees . and by doing so , she has changed the soil , the weather , in some places in africa , and of course the economic conditions in many villages .	另外 , 兩個女人有熱情心臟:wangarimaathai , 來自肯亞的諾貝爾獎得主 , 她改變了土壤 , 天氣 , 有些地方 , 在非洲 , 也有許多村落的經濟條件 。
and somaly mam , a cambodian activist who fights passionately against child prostitution .	一位柬埔寨積極主義者對抗孩童妓女非常有熱情
when she was 14 years old , her grandfather sold her to a brothel .	當她十四歲時 , 她的祖父賣了她到哥哥 。
she told us of little girls raped by men who believe that having sex with a very young virgin will cure them from aids .	她告訴我們小女孩被男人強暴 , 她們會從愛滋病中獲得愛滋病 。
and of brothels where children are forced to receive five , 15 clients per day , and if they rebel , they are tortured with electricity .	孩子們被迫接受五十五個客戶 , 如果他們叛軍 , 他們就會被迫接收到五個客戶 。
in the green room i received my uniform .	在綠色房間裡我接受了我的制服 。
it was not the kind of outfit that i normally wear , but it was far from the michelin man suit that i had anticipated . not bad , really .	其實不是壞事 , 我通常穿著它 , 但它是來自我很熟悉的英格蘭人 , 不錯 。 不錯 。
i looked like a refrigerator .	我看起來像是冰箱 。
but so did most of the flagbearers , except sophia loren , the universal symbol of beauty and passion .	但 , 大部分的旗幟都是美麗和熱情的象徵 。
sophia is over 70 and she looks great .	蘇菲亞大約七十歲 , 她看起來很棒 。
she's sexy , slim and tall , with a deep tan .	她是性愛、脆弱、和高塔 。
now , how can you have a deep tan and have no wrinkles ?	那麼 , 你要如何有一個深度的坦尚和沒有皺紋呢 ?
when asked in a tv interview , " how could she look so good ? "	當電視訪問時問: 「 她怎麼看得這麼好 ? 」
she replied , " posture . my back is always straight , and i don't make old people's noises . "	她回答: 「 姿勢 , 我沒有老人的噪音 。 」
so , there you have some free advice from one of the most beautiful women on earth .	所以 , 你有一些自由建議 , 來自世界上最美麗的女性之一 。
no grunting , no coughing , no wheezing , no talking to yourselves , no farting .	不開頭 , 不打招呼 , 沒有打算 , 不用煩惱 , 沒人談話 , 沒有人 。
well , she didn't say that exactly .	嗯 , 她不這麼說 。
at some point around midnight , we were summoned to the wings of the stadium , and the loudspeakers announced the olympic flag , and the music started by the way , the same music that starts here , the aida march .	大約在午夜 , 我們被告示了奧林匹克的聲響 , 音樂開始從這裡 , 阿迪達遊行 。
sophia loren was right in front of me she's a foot taller than i am , not counting the poofy hair .	蘇菲亞•洛倫在我面前 , 比我還高 , 不在我面前 , 她是腳高的比我 , 而不是在我面前 。
she walked elegantly , like a giraffe on the african savannah , holding the flag on her shoulder . i jogged behind on my tiptoes holding the flag on my extended arm , so that my head was actually under the damn flag .	她好像一名穿著衣服的旗幟 , 穿著旗幟穿著她的肩膀 , 穿著旗幟穿著她的肩膀 , 直到她肩膀上 , 拿著旗子的旗子 , 直到她肩膀上 。
all the cameras were , of course , on sophia .	所有的攝影機都在蘇菲亞 。
that was fortunate for me , because in most press photos i appear too , although often between sophia's legs .	我很幸運 , 因為在大部分的媒體照片中 , 我也看到了 , 儘管大部分的照片都很幸運 。
a place where most men would love to be .	大部分的人都喜歡這個地方 。
the best four minutes of my entire life were those in the olympic stadium .	我整個人生中最好的四分鐘 , 就是在奧林匹克運動場 。
my husband is offended when i say this although i have explained to him that what we do in private usually takes less than four minutes so he shouldn't take it personally .	我的丈夫正當我向他說 , 雖然我告訴他 , 我們在私人身上做的事 , 通常只有4分鐘 , 所以他不應該去私人 。
i have all the press clippings of those four magnificent minutes , because i don't want to forget them when old age destroys my brain cells .	我有這四個美好的時刻 , 因為我不想忘記他們當老年齡毀了我的大腦細胞 。
i want to carry in my heart forever the key word of the olympics passion .	我想要帶著我的心跳 , 最主要的奧林匹克熱情 。
so here's a tale of passion .	這裡是熱情的熱情
the year is 1998 , the place is a prison camp for tutsi refugees in congo .	那是1998年 , 一個囚犯在剛果的監獄營營 。
by the way , 80 percent of all refugees and displaced people in the world are women and girls .	順道一提 , 世界上80%的難民和殘疾人士都是女性和女孩 。
we can call this place in congo a death camp , because those who are not killed will die of disease or starvation .	我們可以稱之為 「 死亡營地 」 , 因為那些沒有殺死的人 , 會被殺死 , 或飢餓 。
the protagonists of this story are a young woman , rose mapendo , and her children .	這個故事的主角是一位年輕女子 , 蘿絲 , 和她的孩子 。
she's pregnant and a widow .	她懷孕和寡婦 。
soldiers have forced her to watch as her husband was tortured and killed .	士兵們強迫她去看她的丈夫被折磨和殺害 。
somehow she manages to keep her seven children alive , and a few months later , she gives birth to premature twins .	不知怎麼 , 她會讓她的七個孩子活下來 , 幾個月後 , 她出生前就產卵雙胞胎 。
two tiny little boys .	兩個小男孩 。
she cuts the umbilical cord with a stick , and ties it with her own hair .	她切割腫瘤的頭髮 , 用她的頭髮來做 。
she names the twins after the camp's commanders to gain their favor , and feeds them with black tea because her milk cannot sustain them .	她稱之為雙胞胎 , 用黑茶茶 , 因為她的牛奶無法保持他們 。
when the soldiers burst in her cell to rape her oldest daughter , she grabs hold of her and refuses to let go , even when they hold a gun to her head .	當士兵把槍擊到她的頭上 , 她抓住了她和拒絕的女兒 , 抓住她 , 抓住她 , 她抓住她 , 她抓住她 , 她抓住她 , 她抓住她 , 她抓住她 , 她抓住她 。
somehow , the family survives for 16 months , and then , by extraordinary luck , and the passionate heart of a young american man , sasha chanoff , who manages to put her in a u . s . rescue plane , rose mapendo and her nine children end up in phoenix , arizona , where they're now living and thriving .	不管怎樣 , 這家生存活了十六個月 , 後來 , 一個美國人的心臟 , 亞利桑那州 , 亞利桑那州的心臟 , 讓她成為美國人的心臟 , 亞利桑那州 , 她的心臟 , 為十六個月 , 創造了一份美麗的心情 , 讓她成為美國人的心臟 , 亞利桑納 , 在那裡 , 他們的生活和茁壯 。
mapendo , in swahili , means great love .	地圖西里的地圖西里 , 代表偉大的愛情 。
the protagonists of my books are strong and passionate women like rose mapendo .	我的書籍的主題是強烈且熱情的女性 , 比如蘿絲•地圖 。
i don't make them up . there's no need for that .	我不會把它們放出來 , 沒有需要 。
i look around and i see them everywhere .	我看著周圍 , 看到他們 。
i have worked with women and for women all my life .	我和女人和女人一起工作 , 為女性和我的生活 。
i know them well .	我知道他們很好 。
i was born in ancient times , at the end of the world , in a patriarchal catholic and conservative family .	我出生在古老的時代 , 在世界各地 , 在一個父教教室和保守家庭 。
no wonder that by age five i was a raging feminist although the term had not reached chile yet , so nobody knew what the heck was wrong with me .	不想五歲時 , 我是個老化女權主義者雖然這個名字還不完美 , 所以沒有人知道我是怎麼搞的 。
i would soon find out that there was a high price to pay for my freedom , and for questioning the patriarchy .	我很快就發現 , 有一個高價錢 , 為我的自由提供自由 , 並且為財政策劃 。
but i was happy to pay it , because for every blow that i received , i was able to deliver two .	但我很高興能付出這一切 , 因為在我收到的每一塊 , 我都能得到兩份 。
once , when my daughter paula was in her twenties , she said to me that feminism was dated , that i should move on .	一旦 , 當我女兒保羅拉在她的二十歲時 , 她告訴我 , 女兒保羅拉在她身上 , 我應該要搬動 。
we had a memorable fight . feminism is dated ?	我們有了不可思議的戰爭 , 女權主義是約會的 ?
yes , for privileged women like my daughter and all of us here today , but not for most of our sisters in the rest of the world who are still forced into premature marriage , prostitution , forced labor they have children that they don't want or they cannot feed .	是的 , 像我女兒和我們今天的女兒和所有人 , 但不是在世界上大部分的姊妹們 , 仍然被迫害怕她們的孩子 , 她們不想要或無法餵飽 。
they have no control over their bodies or their lives .	他們沒有控制自己的身體或生命 。
they have no education and no freedom .	他們沒有教育 , 也沒有自由 。
they are raped , beaten up and sometimes killed with impunity .	他們被強暴、被逮捕 , 有時被殺害 。
for most western young women of today , being called a feminist is an insult .	現今大部分西方的年輕女性主義者是一種侮辱 。
feminism has never been sexy , but let me assure you that it never stopped me from flirting , and i have seldom suffered from lack of men .	女性主義從來沒有人過性 , 但我讓我保證你從來沒有過過性感 , 讓我保證 , 從來沒有過過性感 , 讓我保證她從來沒有過過性感 , 讓我保證你從來沒有過過性感 , 讓我保證從未有過性感 。
feminism is not dead , by no means .	女性主義不是死的 , 沒有意義 。
it has evolved . if you don't like the term , change it , for goddess' sake .	它已經進化了 。 如果你不喜歡這個詞 , 改變它 , 為上帝的命運 。
call it aphrodite , or venus , or bimbo , or whatever you want ; the name doesn't matter , as long as we understand what it is about , and we support it .	稱它為 「 愛滋病 」 , 或 「 不論 」 的名字 , 不論你想要什麼 , 都不重要 , 只要我們了解它是什麼 , 我們支持它 。
so here's another tale of passion , and this is a sad one .	這裡還有另一個關於熱情的故事 , 這是一個悲傷 。
the place is a small women's clinic in a village in bangladesh .	在孟加拉的一個村莊 , 有一個小婦女診所 。
the year is 2005 .	那是2005年 。
jenny is a young american dental hygienist who has gone to the clinic as a volunteer during her threeweek vacation .	珍妮是一位年輕的美國牙醫牙醫師 , 在她的三週假期時 , 要去診所當志工 。
she's prepared to clean teeth , but when she gets there , she finds out that there are no doctors , no dentists , and the clinic is just a hut full of flies .	她準備好清潔牙齒 , 但當她走到那裡 , 她發現沒有醫生 , 沒有醫生 , 沒有醫生 , 沒有醫生 , 沒有醫生 , 沒有醫生 , 沒有醫師 。
outside , there is a line of women who have waited several hours to be treated .	外面有一群婦女 , 等待了幾小時才能被治療 。
the first patient is in excruciating pain because she has several rotten molars .	第一位患者是非常痛苦的因為她有幾種羅特的母親
jenny realizes that the only solution is to pull out the bad teeth .	珍妮意識到唯一的解決方法就是拿出最好的牙齒 。
she's not licensed for that ; she has never done it .	她從來沒有做過這樣的事 , 她從來沒有做過 。
she risks a lot and she's terrified .	她的風險很大 , 她很害怕 。
she doesn't even have the proper instruments , but fortunately she has brought some novocaine .	她甚至沒有適合的儀器 , 但幸運的是她帶了一些鼻子 。
jenny has a brave and passionate heart .	珍妮有勇氣和熱情的心 。
she murmurs a prayer and she goes ahead with the operation .	她打電話給禱告 , 她向前禱告 。
at the end , the relieved patient kisses her hands .	最後 , 病人親吻她的手 。
that day the hygienist pulls out many more teeth .	那天那天 , 衛生部長出了很多牙齒 。
the next morning , when she comes again to the socalled clinic , her first patient is waiting for her with her husband .	第二天早上 , 她的第一個病人在等待她的丈夫時 , 她的第一個病人在等待她 。
the woman's face looks like a watermelon .	女人的臉看起來就像是水龍 。
it is so swollen that you can't even see the eyes .	很腫瘤 , 你甚至看不到眼睛 。
the husband , furious , threatens to kill the american .	丈夫、憤怒、威脅要殺死美國人 。
jenny is horrified at what she has done , but then the translator explains that the patient's condition has nothing to do with the operation .	珍妮在她所做的事情上很嚇人 , 但後來翻譯解釋病人的狀況和手術沒有關係 。
the day before , her husband beat her up because she was not home in time to prepare dinner for him .	第一天 , 她的丈夫打敗她 , 因為她沒家去準備晚餐 。
millions of women live like this today .	今天有數百萬的女性像這樣 。
they are the poorest of the poor .	他們是窮人最貧窮的人 。
although women do twothirds of the world's labor , they own less than one percent of the world's assets .	儘管女性有三分之二的勞動力 , 但世界上的勞動力少於百分之三十 。
they are paid less than men for the same work if they're paid at all , and they remain vulnerable because they have no economic independence , and they are constantly threatened by exploitation , violence and abuse .	他們比男性一樣工作 , 只要他們付錢 , 他們就被剝削、暴力和虐待 , 被剝削、暴力和虐待 。
it is a fact that giving women education , work , the ability to control their own income , inherit and own property , benefits the society .	事實是 , 提供女性教育、工作能力 , 控制自己的收入、遺產、以及自己的財產 , 來控制自己的收入、財產、以及自己的財產 , 來控制自己的收入 , 和自己的財產 , 來控制自己的收入 , 和自己的財產 。
if a woman is empowered , her children and her family will be better off .	如果女性有權力 , 她的孩子和家人會更好 。
if families prosper , the village prospers , and eventually so does the whole country .	如果家庭繁榮 , 村莊繁榮 , 最終 , 整個國家都會成功 。
wangari maathai goes to a village in kenya .	孟加拉的村落在肯亞的村落 。
she talks with the women and explains that the land is barren because they have cut and sold the trees .	她和婦女談話 , 說 , 土地是荒野的 , 因為他們砍伐了樹木 。
she gets the women to plant new trees and water them , drop by drop .	她讓女性植物新的樹木和水 , 滴滴 。
in a matter of five or six years , they have a forest , the soil is enriched , and the village is saved .	在五或六年之內 , 他們有森林 , 土壤被拯救了 。
the poorest and most backward societies are always those that put women down .	最貧窮和最貧窮的最貧窮最貧窮最貧窮的人通常會把女性放下來 。
yet this obvious truth is ignored by governments and also by philanthropy .	但顯然的事實是忽略政府和慈善事業 。
for every dollar given to a women's program , 20 dollars are given to men's programs .	每一塊錢給予男性的計畫 , 二十美元給男性的計劃 。
women are 51 percent of humankind .	女性是51%的人 。
empowering them will change everything more than technology and design and entertainment .	賦予他們能改變一切 , 不只是科技、設計和娛樂 。
i can promise you that women working together linked , informed and educated can bring peace and prosperity to this forsaken planet .	我可以保證各位 , 女性一起工作 , 結合起來 , 受教育 , 和平和平繁榮 , 能夠為此受惠 。
in any war today , most of the casualties are civilians , mainly women and children . they are collateral damage .	在今天的戰爭中 , 大部分的戰爭都是公民 , 主要是女性和小孩 , 主要是婦女和小孩 。
men run the world , and look at the mess we have .	男人經營世界 , 看看我們有的混亂 。
what kind of world do we want ?	我們想要什麼樣的世界 ?
this is a fundamental question that most of us are asking .	我們大部分人都在問這個問題 。
does it make sense to participate in the existing world order ?	是否合理參與現存的世界秩序 ?
we want a world where life is preserved and the quality of life is enriched for everybody , not only for the privileged .	我們想要一個世界 , 生活的品質是為每個人 , 不只是為了榮幸 。
in january i saw an exhibit of fernando botero's paintings at the uc berkeley library .	在一月 , 我看到了費倫多•波特羅的畫畫在柏克萊圖書館 。
no museum or gallery in the united states , except for the new york gallery that carries botero's work , has dared to show the paintings because the theme is the abu ghraib prison .	在美國 , 沒有博物館或ghraib監獄 , 除了在紐約市區的藝術家裡 , 展示了畫作 , 因為主題是阿布•卡里斯 。
they are huge paintings of torture and abuse of power , in the voluminous botero style .	他們是很大的畫作和濫用權力 , 在廣大的畫作中 , 被強暴的虐待和濫用 。
i have not been able to get those images out of my mind or my heart .	我無法從我的腦袋或心中得到這些影像 。
what i fear most is power with impunity .	我害怕大部分的力量是權力 。
i fear abuse of power , and the power to abuse .	我害怕濫用權力 , 權力濫用權力 。
in our species , the alpha males define reality , and force the rest of the pack to accept that reality and follow the rules .	在我們的物種中 , 雄性領袖定義現實 , 並遵守規則 。
the rules change all the time , but they always benefit them , and in this case , the trickledown effect , which does not work in economics , works perfectly .	規則改變了所有時間 , 但他們總是對他們有益處 , 尤其是在經濟學上 , 這種情況下 , 效果不在於經濟上運作得很完美 。
abuse trickles down from the top of the ladder to the bottom .	下層的層面下降到底層 。
women and children , especially the poor , are at the bottom .	女性和孩子 , 特別是貧窮 , 尤其是窮人 。
even the most destitute of men have someone they can abuse a woman or a child .	即使是最高層的婦女還是小孩 , 她們可以虐待女性或小孩 。
i'm fed up with the power that a few exert over the many through gender , income , race , and class .	我在許多性別、收入、種族和課堂上都得到了許多性別的權力 。
i think that the time is ripe to make fundamental changes in our civilization .	我認為 , 時間在我們的文明中創造基礎的改變 。
but for real change , we need feminine energy in the management of the world .	但 , 為了真正的改變 , 我們需要女性能源在全世界的管理 。
we need a critical number of women in positions of power , and we need to nurture the feminine energy in men .	我們需要培養女性權力的女性權力 , 我們需要培養女性的權力 。
i'm talking about men with young minds , of course .	當然 , 我在談男人和年輕人 , 當然 。
old guys are hopeless ; we have to wait for them to die off .	老舊人無希望 ; 我們等待他們死掉 。
yes , i would love to have sophia loren's long legs and legendary breasts .	是的 , 我很喜歡有蘇菲亞•洛倫的長腿和腿部 。
but given a choice , i would rather have the warrior hearts of wangari maathai , somaly mam , jenny and rose mapendo .	但 , 為了選擇 , 我寧願是瑪麗•瑪麗馬的母親 , 珍妮和羅斯地圖 。
i want to make this world good .	我想要讓這個世界變得更好 。
not better , but to make it good .	不是更好的 , 但要讓它好好 。
why not ? it is possible . look around in this room all this knowledge , energy , talent and technology .	為何不呢 ? 看看這個房間所有的知識、能源、天才和科技 。
let's get off our fannies , roll up our sleeves and get to work , passionately , in creating an almost perfect world .	咱們脫離我們的粉絲 , 打開我們的美麗 , 創造出完美的世界 。
every day , in a city the size of london , 30 million meals are served . but where does all the food come from ? architect carolyn steel discusses the daily miracle of feeding a city , and shows how ancient food routes shaped the modern world .	每天 , 每一天 , 在城市裡 , 有300萬美金的食物都被服務 , 但從哪裡來的 ? 建築師卡羅•史黛爾提到 , 現代世界有多麼的不可思議 。
cities , culture , food , global issues	城市、文化、食物、全球議題 。
carolyn steel: how food shapes our cities	卡羅琳•史蒂:我們城市如何塑造我們的城市 。
how do you feed a city ?	你要如何餵飽城市 ?
it's one of the great questions of our time .	這是我們時代最大的問題之一 。
yet it's one that's rarely asked .	但 , 很少人會被問到 。
we take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant , or indeed into this theater's foyer in about an hour's time , there is going to be food there waiting for us , having magically come from somewhere .	我們認真思考 , 如果我們進入一間餐廳 , 或餐廳 , 或餐廳 , 或餐廳 , 或餐廳 , 或餐廳 , 或餐廳 , 即將進入一家餐廳 , 到一間餐廳 , 到一間餐廳 , 到一間房間的餐廳 , 隨之而來 。
but when you think that every day for a city the size of london , enough food has to be produced , transported , bought and sold , cooked , eaten , disposed of , and that something similar has to happen every day for every city on earth , it's remarkable that cities get fed at all .	但當你認為每一天城市都市大小的倫敦 , 都可以被運輸、買賣、煮飯、吃、被吃掉、被交通 , 被用來製造、被運輸、買賣、煮飯、吃掉 , 和被賣掉的食物 , 會被運輸 , 買賣、煮飯、吃掉 , 被用來製造 , 被賣掉 , 被賣掉 。
we live in places like this as if they're the most natural things in the world , forgetting that because we're animals and that we need to eat , we're actually as dependent on the natural world as our ancient ancestors were .	我們生活在這個世界裡 , 如同我們所居住的自然世界一樣 , 儘管我們是人類的祖先 , 卻依賴自然界的天然 , 我們依賴自然世界 , 以我們的古老祖先生存 。
and as more of us move into cities , more of that natural world is being transformed into extraordinary landscapes like the one behind me it's soybean fields in mato grosso in brazil in order to feed us .	隨著我們搬進城市裡 , 大自然世界被轉變成非凡的景色 , 像是我在巴西的大草原 , 來餵飽我們 。
these are extraordinary landscapes , but few of us ever get to see them .	這些是非凡的地景 , 但少數人會看到它們 。
and increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either .	越來越多的地景並不只是餵飽我們 。
as more of us move into cities , more of us are eating meat , so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals .	搬進城市裡 , 更多人吃肉 , 所以 , 現今全世界的三分之一的穀物被餵養動物 , 而不是人類的動物 。
and given that it takes three times as much grain actually ten times as much grain to feed a human if it's passed through an animal first , that's not a very efficient way of feeding us .	若有三倍的穀物能餵飽人類 , 那就不是很有效的方法 , 餵飽我們 。
and it's an escalating problem too .	這也是一個嚴重的問題 。
by 2050 , it's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities .	到了2050年 , 估計我們將要活在城市裡的人口數量 。
and it's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed .	同時也估計 , 兩倍的肉類和大量的肉類都消耗了 。
so meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand .	所以 , 肉和都市主義正在舉手 。
and that's going to pose an enormous problem .	這將會帶來一個巨大的問題 。
six billion hungry carnivores to feed , by 2050 .	六十億個飢餓的糖果在2050年 。
that's a big problem . and actually if we carry on as we are , it's a problem we're very unlikely to be able to solve .	這是個很大的問題 。 事實上如果我們帶著這問題 , 我們就很難解決 。
nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land .	每年有九千萬公頃的雨林 , 創造出新的可耕地 。
although at the same time we're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion .	雖然同時 , 我們也失去了一份相當量的存在性 , 用來清除和暴露 。
we're very hungry for fossil fuels too .	我們對化石燃料也很感興趣 。
it takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the west .	要花大約10卡路里 , 才能製造出我們在西方所消耗的食物 。
and even though there is food that we are producing at great cost , we don't actually value it .	儘管我們有食物在大成本上 , 我們並不珍視它 。
half the food produced in the usa is currently thrown away .	美國目前有一半的食物被丟棄 。
and to end all of this , at the end of this long process , we're not even managing to feed the planet properly .	要結束這段漫長的過程 , 我們還沒辦法餵飽地球 。
a billion of us are obese , while a further billion starve .	我們有十億人是肥胖者 , 十億人是肥胖 。
none of it makes very much sense .	這一點都不合理 。
and when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations , it's a grim picture .	當你認為百分之八十的全球交易已經被五個跨國公司所控制 , 它是一張圖片 。
as we're moving into cities , the world is also embracing a western diet .	當我們搬進城市時 , 世界也擁抱了西方飲食 。
and if we look to the future , it's an unsustainable diet .	如果我們看看未來 , 它是一個不可持續的飲食 。
so how did we get here ?	我們是怎麼做到的 ?
and more importantly , what are we going to do about it ?	更重要的是 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , to answer the slightly easier question first , about 10 , 000 years ago , i would say , is the beginning of this process in the ancient near east , known as the fertile crescent .	首先 , 要回答一些簡單的問題 , 大約一萬年前 , 我會說 , 這是在古老的早期 , 叫做 「 肥沃克里斯 」 。
because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .	因為 , 如你所見 , 它是被設計的 。
and it was also fertile .	同時也是肥沃 。
and it was here , about 10 , 000 years ago , that two extraordinary inventions , agriculture and urbanism , happened roughly in the same place and at the same time .	大約一萬年前 , 這兩個非凡的發明 , 農業和城市主義 , 發生在同一個地方 , 同時也發生了 。
this is no accident , because agriculture and cities are bound together . they need each other .	這不是意外 , 因為農業和城市都互相合作 。 他們需要彼此 。
because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements .	由於古老祖先第一次製造出食物來源 , 足以支撐永久的住宅 。
and if we look at what those settlements were like , we see they were compact .	如果我們看看這些組成的樣子 , 我們會看到它們是比較的 。
they were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at ur , that were , in fact , effectively , spiritualized , central food distribution centers .	他們被生產力的農場所組成 , 中央食物分配中心 , 中央食物分配中心 。
because it was the temples that organized the harvest , gathered in the grain , offered it to the gods , and then offered the grain that the gods didn't eat back to the people .	因為它是神聖經營的寺廟 , 把穀物帶給上帝 , 然後提供給上帝的神 , 再給上帝 , 再給上帝們 。
so , if you like , the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them .	所以 , 如果你喜歡 , 所有這些城市的靈性和實體生活都是由穀物和穀物所組成的 。
and in fact , that's true of every ancient city .	事實上 , 每個古老的城市都一樣 。
but of course not all of them were that small .	但當然不是所有人都很小 。
famously , rome had about a million citizens by the first century a . d .	很有名的 , 羅馬有一百萬個市民 , 由第一世紀的主題 。
so how did a city like this feed itself ?	那麼 , 這種城市如何像這樣的城市這樣做 ?
the answer is what i call " ancient food miles . "	答案是 , 我稱之為 「 古代食物英哩 」 。
basically , rome had access to the sea , which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away .	基本上 , 羅馬接觸了海洋 , 讓它可以從遠遠的路途中取得海洋 。
this is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world , because it was very difficult to transport food over roads , which were rough .	這是在古代世界的唯一方法 , 因為它很難交通運輸食物 , 路上也很困難 。
and the food obviously went off very quickly .	食物顯然很快 。
so rome effectively waged war on places like carthage and egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves .	所以 , 羅馬有效的戰爭 , 像是卡和埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及埃及
and , in fact , you could say that the expansion of the empire was really sort of one long , drawn out militarized shopping spree , really .	事實上 , 你可以說 , 擴張帝國的擴張 , 其實是很長的一段漫畫 , 以軍事化購物的擴張 。
in fact i love the fact , i just have to mention this: rome in fact used to import oysters from london , at one stage . i think that's extraordinary .	事實上 , 我真的很喜歡這個事實:羅馬被用於倫敦的博士館裡 , 一個階段 , 我覺得這很奇特 。
so rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite .	所以羅馬形塑了它的希臘風格 , 用它的形狀 。
but the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the preindustrial world .	但有趣的是 , 另一件事也發生在工業世界 。
if we look at a map of london in the 17th century , we can see that its grain , which is coming in from the thames , along the bottom of this map .	如果我們看看倫敦的地圖的地圖 , 我們可以看到它的地圖是從十七世紀開始的地圖的地圖 , 我們可以看到它的地圖 。
so the grain markets were to the south of the city .	所以 , 葡萄酒是城市的南方 。
and the roads leading up from them to cheapside , which was the main market , were also grain markets .	道路從他們到便宜的道路 , 主要市場 , 也是穀物市場 。
and if you look at the name of one of those streets , bread street , you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago .	如果你看看那些街頭的名字 , 可以告訴你在300年前發生了什麼 。
and the same of course was true for fish .	魚類也是如此 。
fish was , of course , coming in by river as well . same thing .	當然 , 魚類也在河流裡 , 也是一樣的 。
and of course billingsgate , famously , was london's fish market , operating onsite here until the mid1980s .	當然 , 很有名的是倫敦的魚市場 , 在1980年代中期 。
which is extraordinary , really , when you think about it .	這很不可思議 , 真的 , 當你想到它的時候 。
everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port .	每個人都在移動電話裡 , 像磚塊一樣 , 像磚塊一樣 , 在港口附近 。
this is another thing about food in cities: once its roots into the city are established , they very rarely move .	這也是關於食物的另一件事:一旦它根源到城市中 , 它們非常少移動 。
meat is a very different story because , of course , animals could walk into the city .	肉是一種非常不同的故事因為當然 , 動物可以走進城市
so much of london's meat was coming from the northwest , from scotland and wales .	很多倫敦的肉來自來自蘇格蘭和威爾斯
so it was coming in , and arriving at the city at the northwest , which is why smithfield , london's very famous meat market , was located up there .	所以 , 來到這裡 , 來到北方的冰山 , 那裡是為smithfield , 倫敦的一座非常有名的肉市場 , 在那裡 。
poultry was coming in from east anglia and so on , to the northeast .	來自東加利亞 , 到東北方 , 到東部 。
i feel a bit like a weather woman doing this . anyway , and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes .	我覺得有點像天氣女性 , 這樣做 , 鳥兒們就來到他們的腳邊 , 用雙腳來保護小小的羽毛 。
and then when they hit the eastern end of cheapside , that's where they were sold , which is why it's called poultry .	然後當他們打到東方時 , 那裡被賣掉了 , 那裡是被賣出來的 , 這就是為何被賣出來的 。
and , in fact , if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age , you can trace food coming in to it .	事實上 , 如果你看一下在工業時代的地圖 , 你就能收到食物來源 。
you can actually see how it was physically shaped by food , both by reading the names of the streets , which give you a lot of clues .	你可以看到它是如何形狀的 , 透過食物 , 讀了街道的名字 , 給你很多線索 。
friday street , in a previous life , is where you went to buy your fish on a friday .	星期五街道 , 在一個早期的人生中 , 你去買你的魚 , 去買你的魚 。
but also you have to imagine it full of food .	但你必須想像一下它充滿了食物 。
because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold .	因為街道和公共空間只是食物被買賣的唯一地方 。
and if we look at an image of smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from .	如果我們看一下史密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯密斯的照片 , 你可以看到它會很難生活在這個城市裡 , 不管你是怎麼辦到的 。
in fact , if you were having sunday lunch , the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier .	事實上 , 如果你有陽日午餐 , 機會是在你的窗戶外面打開 , 一天午餐 , 機會就在你的窗戶外面三天 。
so this was obviously an organic city , part of an organic cycle .	這很明顯是有機循環的一部分 。
and then 10 years later everything changed .	十年後 , 一切改變了 。
this is an image of the great western in 1840 .	這是1840年大西方的圖片 。
and as you can see , some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep .	你們可以看到 , 最早的訓練乘客是豬和羊 。
so all of a sudden , these animals are no longer walking into market .	突然間 , 這些動物不再走進市場 。
they're being slaughtered out of sight and mind , somewhere in the countryside .	他們被屠殺 , 不管是在鄉村裡的任何地方 。
and they're coming into the city by rail .	後來他們進入城市裡 ,
and this changes everything .	這改變了一切 。
to start off with , it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities , really any size and shape , in any place .	首先 , 要從事開始 , 首次要成長城市 , 大小和形狀 , 任何地方都有可能 。
cities used to be constrained by geography ; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means .	城市以前被地理所限制 , 他們習慣要把食物帶到非常困難的實體上 。
all of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography .	突然間 , 他們都有效地理由地理 。
and as you can see from these maps of london , in the 90 years after the trains came , it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot , and so on , to a large splurge , that would be very , very difficult to feed with anybody on foot , either animals or people .	如你所見 , 從倫敦的地圖上 , 到九十年後 , 在火車後 , 一個大型的運輸 , 會非常非常困難 , 要餵飽任何人 , 不論是動物或人 , 都很容易 。
and of course that was just the beginning . after the trains came cars , and really this marks the end of this process .	當然那只是一開始 , 火車結束了 。 火車結束了這個過程 。
it's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all .	它是整個城市的最後一個與大自然的聯繫 。
and this is the kind of city that's devoid of smell , devoid of mess , certainly devoid of people , because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape .	這種城市 , 沒有人會夢想在這樣的地景上走動 , 沒有人會夢想著那樣的城市 。
in fact , what they did to get food was they got in their cars , drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts , came back with a week's worth of shopping , and wondered what on earth to do with it .	事實上 , 他們的食物是他們買的 , 拿到箱子裡 , 一週的購物 , 買到箱子裡 , 想知道地球上有哪些東西 。
and this really is the moment when our relationship , both with food and cities , changes completely .	這真的是我們的關係 , 食物和城市的改變 , 完全改變了 。
here we have food that used to be the center , the social core of the city at the periphery .	這裡我們有食物曾經是城市的中心 , 城市的核心 , 城市的核心 。
it used to be a social event , buying and selling food .	以前是社交活動 , 買賣食物 。
we used to cook ; now we just add water , or a little bit of an egg if you're making a cake or something .	我們以前會煮飯 , 只要加入水 , 或一些蛋糕 , 或一些蛋 。
we don't smell food to see if it's okay to eat .	我們不會聞到食物來看看是否好吃 。
we just read the back of a label on a packet .	我們只是在一頭包裝上標記 。
and we don't value food . we don't trust it .	我們沒有價值食物 , 我們不信任它 。
so instead of trusting it , we fear it .	所以 , 我們不相信它 , 我們害怕它 。
and instead of valuing it , we throw it away .	而不是評估它 , 我們把它丟掉 。
one of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder .	現代食物系統最棒的諷刺之一就是他們承諾要做得更容易 。
by making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place , they've actually distanced us from our most important relationship , which is that of us and nature .	只要讓它能夠建造城市 , 任何地方 , 它們都能在我們和大自然中建立城市 。
and also they've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver , that , as we've seen , are unsustainable .	同時 , 它們也讓我們依賴系統 , 只能提供我們所見 , 不穩定的系統 。
so what are we going to do about that ?	那麼 , 我們要怎麼做呢 ?
it's not a new question .	這不是一個新問題 。
500 years ago it's what thomas more was asking himself .	500年前 , 湯瑪斯會問自己自己 。
this is the frontispiece of his book " utopia . "	這是他的書《烏托邦》 。
and it was a series of semiindependent citystates , if that sounds remotely familiar , a day's walk from one another where everyone was basically farmingmad , and grew vegetables in their back gardens , and ate communal meals together , and so on .	這是一系列獨立的公共餐廳 , 每人都很熟悉 , 每天都能從另一邊走出 , 一邊是一家餐廳 , 和餐廳裡的餐廳 , 和餐廳的餐廳 , 再來交流 。
and i think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of utopia , even though more never framed it that way .	我想你可以說食物是烏托邦的基本原則 , 儘管它不是如此 。
and here is another very famous " utopian " vision , that of ebenezer howard , " the garden city . "	還有另一個非常有名的烏托邦 「 烏托邦 」 視覺 , 叫做烏托邦 " 烏托邦 " 的名字 " 烏托邦 " 的名字 " 烏托邦 " 的名字 " 烏托邦 "
same idea: series of semiindependent citystates , little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around , joined to one another by railway .	同一個想法:一系列獨立的城市 , 一間小型的土地 , 由鐵路運送 , 再加入到另一條鐵路 。
and again , food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision .	再次 , 食物可以被說是他的視野的原則 。
it even got built , but nothing to do with this vision that howard had .	它甚至被建造了 , 但和這個願景相比 , 沒什麼關係 。
and that is the problem with these utopian ideas , that they are utopian .	這些烏托邦的想法是烏托邦的問題 ,
utopia was actually a word that thomas moore used deliberately .	烏托邦其實是thomasmoore使用的詞 。
it was a kind of joke , because it's got a double derivation from the greek .	這是個笑話 , 因為它有來自希臘的二氧化碳 。
it can either mean a good place , or no place .	它可以說是好地方 , 或沒有地方 。
because it's an ideal . it's an imaginary thing . we can't have it .	因為這是一個理想的 , 一個理想的 , 這是個理想的 。 這是個理想的 。
and i think , as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling , that makes it not much use .	我認為 , 作為一個概念性的工具 , 來思考人類的深層問題 , 會讓它不用用 。
so i've come up with an alternative , which is sitopia , from the ancient greek , " sitos " for food , and " topos " for place .	所以 , 我得到了一個替代方案 , 叫做 「 stopia 」 , 從古希臘、 「 stopia 」 、 「 stos 」 到 「 stopia 」 。
i believe we already live in sitopia .	我相信我們已經住在烏托邦 。
we live in a world shaped by food , and if we realize that , we can use food as a really powerful tool a conceptual tool , design tool , to shape the world differently .	我們生活在世界各地 , 如果我們意識到 , 我們能用食物來形塑這個世界 , 更有用的工具 , 設計工具 , 來塑造世界不同 。
so if we were to do that , what might sitopia look like ?	所以 , 如果我們要這麼做 , 烏托邦看起來是什麼樣子 ?
well i think it looks a bit like this .	我覺得它看起來有點像這樣 。
i have to use this slide . it's just the look on the face of the dog .	我必須用這張投影片 , 看看狗的臉 。
but anyway , this is it's food at the center of life , at the center of family life , being celebrated , being enjoyed , people taking time for it .	不管怎樣 , 這是食物在生活的中心 , 家庭生活的中心 , 被讚頌 , 享受 , 人們花時間 。
this is where food should be in our society .	食物應該在我們的社會中 。
but you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this .	但你不能像這樣的景象 , 除非你有這樣的人 。
by the way , these can be men as well .	順便一提 , 這些人也能成為男人 。
it's people who think about food , who think ahead , who plan , who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them .	人們會想到食物 , 想到食物的人 , 想知道 , 誰會想食物 , 誰會想食物 , 誰會想食物 , 誰會想著食物 ?
we need these people . we're part of a network .	我們需要這些人 , 我們是網路的一部分 。
because without these kinds of people we can't have places like this .	因為沒有這些我們無法擁有這樣的人 。
here , i deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable .	在這裡 , 我輕鬆地選擇這個 , 因為那是男人買蔬菜 。
but networks , markets where food is being grown locally .	但網絡 , 市場 , 食物正在成長的地方 。
it's common . it's fresh .	它很普遍 , 很常見 。
it's part of the social life of the city .	它是社會生活的一部分 。
because without that , you can't have this kind of place , food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape , and is not just a zerosum commodity off in some unseen hellhole .	因為 , 沒有這種地方 , 你不能有這種地方 , 食物是地景的一部分 , 而不是僅僅零和零的產業 , 不再只是零件商品 。
cows with a view .	牛和觀點相同 。
steaming piles of humus .	蒸汽的山脈 。
this is basically bringing the whole thing together .	這基本上就是把整整組合在一起 。
and this is a community project i visited recently in toronto .	這是我最近參加的社區計劃 。
it's a greenhouse , where kids get told all about food and growing their own food .	這是溫室 , 孩子們被告知食物的食物 , 和培養自己的食物 。
here is a plant called kevin , or maybe it's a plant belonging to a kid called kevin . i don't know .	這裡有一個叫做kevin的植物 , 或者它是一個植物屬於一個叫做kevin的植物 , 我不知道 。
but anyway , these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important .	總之 , 這些計畫正在試圖重新連結我們大自然是極為重要的 。
so sitopia , for me , is really a way of seeing .	所以 , 西托比亞 , 對我而言 , 這是一種看法 。
it's basically recognizing that sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere .	基本上 , 蜜蜂已經存在於小小的口袋裡 。
the trick is to join them up , to use food as a way of seeing .	技巧是要加入他們 , 用食物來當作一種看法 。
and if we do that , we're going to stop seeing cities as big , metropolitan , unproductive blobs , like this .	如果我們這樣做 , 我們就會停止看到城市 , 像這樣 , 大型的城市 , 像這樣 。
we're going to see them more like this , as part of the productive , organic framework of which they are inevitably a part , symbiotically connected .	我們會把它們視為是有機架構的一部分 , 它們是無可避免地連結在一起的一部分 。
but of course , that's not a great image either , because we need not to be producing food like this anymore .	當然 , 這不是很棒的圖像 , 因為我們不需要再把食物做成 。
we need to be thinking more about permaculture , which is why i think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing .	我們需要思考更多關於永生性 , 這就是為什麼我認為這張圖像只是為了我認為這張圖只是為了我們要做的事 。
it's a reconceptualization of the way food shapes our lives .	它是一種重新思考食物形塑我們的生活方式 。
the best image i know of this is from 650 years ago .	我所知道的最好的圖像是650年前 。
it's ambrogio lorenzetti's " allegory of good government . "	亞伯羅•洛倫澤蒂的 「 都是好的政府 」 。
it's about the relationship between the city and the countryside .	它是關於城市和國家之間的關係 。
and i think the message of this is very clear .	我認為這訊息很明顯 。
if the city looks after the country , the country will look after the city .	如果城市看了這個國家 , 國家就會看這個城市 。
and i want us to ask now , what would ambrogio lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today ?	現在我要請大家問 , 如果他畫畫這張圖 , 阿布羅吉歐•洛倫澤蒂畫了什麼 ?
what would an allegory of good government look like today ?	現今的政府長大 , 什麼是好的 ?
because i think it's an urgent question .	因為我認為這是一個迫切的問題 。
it's one we have to ask , and we have to start answering .	我們必須問 , 我們必須開始回答 。
we know we are what we eat .	我們知道我們是吃的 。
we need to realize that the world is also what we eat .	我們必須了解 , 世界也是我們吃的 。
but if we take that idea , we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better .	但如果我們採用這個概念 , 我們可以用食物作為一個非常強大的工具 , 來塑造世界更好 。
weeks from the charter for compassion launch , karen armstrong looks at religion's role in the 21st century: will its dogmas divide us ? or will it unite us for common good ? she reviews the catalysts that can drive the world's faiths to rediscover the golden rule .	幾週後 , 卡爾德•阿姆斯壯觀看宗教的角色在21世紀:它會否認我們同情心 , 卡爾斯壯觀看宗教的角色在21世紀:它會否認同理心的主題 ? 或將它帶給我們共同的好處 ? 她重新審視了宗教的角色在21世紀:它會讓世界的信仰轉變 , 來重新審視宗教的角色 。
god , ted prize , global issues , politics , religion , tedglobal2009 , violence	上帝 , tedprize , 全球議題 , 政治 , 宗教 , tedprize , 全球議題 , 政治 , 宗教 , 2009年 , 暴力 。
karen armstrong: let's revive the golden rule	karenemstrong:讓我們保證黃金法則 。
for years i've been feeling frustrated , because as a religious historian , i've become acutely aware of the centrality of compassion in all the major world faiths .	多年來 , 我變得很沮喪 , 因為身為宗教歷史學家 , 我變得很沮喪 , 因為當宗教歷史學家 , 我變得很挫折 , 因為身為宗教歷史學家 , 我變得很挫折 , 因為身為宗教歷史學家 , 我變得很沮喪 。
every single one of them has evolved their own version of what's been called the golden rule .	每一個人都演化出自己的版本 , 叫做黃金法則 。
sometimes it comes in a positive version " always treat all others as you'd like to be treated yourself . "	有時候 , 正面的版本是 「 總是對待你自己 。 」
and equally important is the negative version " don't do to others what you would not like them to do to you . "	同樣重要的是負面版本: 「 不要對其他人做你不喜歡他們做的事 。 」
look into your own heart , discover what it is that gives you pain and then refuse , under any circumstance whatsoever , to inflict that pain on anybody else .	看看你的心臟 , 發現它是什麼讓你痛苦 , 然後拒絕 , 在任何情況下 , 在任何情況下 , 都能讓你痛苦 , 然後拒絕 , 在任何情況下 , 都能讓你痛苦 。
and people have emphasized the importance of compassion , not just because it sounds good , but because it works .	人們強調了同情心的重要性 , 不只是因為它聽起來很好 , 而是因為它是好的 。
people have found that when they have implemented the golden rule as confucius said , " all day and every day , " not just a question of doing your good deed for the day and then returning to a life of greed and egotism , but to do it all day and every day , you dethrone yourself from the center of your world , put another there , and you transcend yourself .	人們發現 , 當他們把黃金法規當作 「 天日 」 和 「 天日 」 的標準時 , 不只會說: 「 整天 , 別忘了 , 你就在世界的另一端 , 走向你自己 , 再次回到一個生活中 , 和憤怒 。
and it brings you into the presence of what's been called god , nirvana , rama , tao .	它將你帶到前所未有的名稱上帝、nirvana、rama、nirvana 。
something that goes beyond what we know in our egobound existence .	超越我們所知的存在 。
but you know you'd never know it a lot of the time , that this was so central to the religious life .	但你知道你永遠不會知道很多時間 , 這才是宗教生活的核心 。
because with a few wonderful exceptions , very often when religious people come together , religious leaders come together , they're arguing about abstruse doctrines or uttering a council of hatred or inveighing against homosexuality or something of that sort .	因為有一些奇妙的例外 , 通常當宗教信仰者聚集在一起 , 宗教領袖聚集在一起 , 他們爭論辯論 , 宗教聚集 , 宗教領袖團聚在一起 , 宗教領袖團聚在一起 , 宗教領袖團聚在一起 , 宗教領袖團聚在一起 , 宗教領袖團聚在一起 , 宗教領袖團聚在一起 , 宗教領袖團聚在一起 , 宗教領袖團聚在一起 , 宗教領袖團聚在一起 , 宗教領袖團聚在一起 , 宗教領袖團聚在一起 , 宗教團聚團聚在一起 , 宗教團聚聚在一起 , 宗教聚聚在一起 , 宗教團聚在一起 ,
often people don't really want to be compassionate .	通常人們並不想要有同情心 。
i sometimes see when i'm speaking to a congregation of religious people a sort of mutinous expression crossing their faces because people often want to be right instead .	我有時候會看到當我說到宗教人的同意時 , 會看到他們臉孔 , 因為人們常常會覺得自己是對的 。
and that of course defeats the object of the exercise .	當然 , 這絕對是運動的物體 。
now why was i so grateful to ted ?	為什麼我這麼感謝ted ?
because they took me very gently from my booklined study and brought me into the 21st century , enabling me to speak to a much , much wider audience than i could have ever conceived .	因為他們把我帶到21世紀 , 把我帶到21世紀 , 讓我更廣泛的聽見 , 比我想像的更廣大 。
because i feel an urgency about this .	因為我覺得很急迫 。
if we don't manage to implement the golden rule globally , so that we treat all peoples , wherever and whoever they may be , as though they were as important as ourselves , i doubt that we'll have a viable world to hand on to the next generation .	若我們不經營制定全球的治理 , 我們就會有可見的能力 , 以至於下一代的人 , 不管他們是誰 , 或誰 , 無論如何 。
the task of our time , one of the great tasks of our time , is to build a global society , as i said , where people can live together in peace .	我們的工作任務之一 , 是建立一個全球性的社會 , 如我所言 , 人們可以在和平生活在一起 。
and the religions that should be making a major contribution are instead seen as part of the problem .	而宗教應該要做一個主要貢獻 , 而不是被視為是問題的一部分 。
and of course it's not just religious people who believe in the golden rule .	當然 , 不只是宗教信仰者相信黃金法則 。
this is the source of all morality , this imaginative act of empathy , putting yourself in the place of another .	這是所有道德的靈感 , 同理心 , 把自己放到另一個地方 。
and so we have a choice , it seems to me .	所以 , 我們有選擇 , 對我而言 。
we can either go on bringing out or emphasizing the dogmatic and intolerant aspects of our faith , or we can go back to the rabbis . rabbi hillel , the older contemporary of jesus , who , when asked by a pagan to sum up the whole of jewish teaching while he stood on one leg , said , " that which is hateful to you , do not do to your neighbor .	不管你說: 「 這對你的鄰居有什麼好處 。 」 尤其是當他站在一條腿上 , 說: 「 對你來說 , 這對你的鄰居來說 , 這對你來說是很討厭的 。 」 「 不管你是誰 , 請他站在一條腿上 , 說: 「 這對你來說是很痛恨的 , 不是你的鄰居 。
that is the torah and everything else is only commentary . "	「 和其他一切都只有評論 。 」
and the rabbis and the early fathers of the church who said that any interpretation of scripture that bred hatred and disdain was illegitimate .	拉比和早期的父親 , 教會教會說任何詮釋的謊言都是違法的 。
and we need to revive that spirit .	我們必須重新維持精神 。
and it's not just going to happen because a spirit of love wafts us down .	不只會發生 , 因為靈感的靈感會讓我們下沉 。
we have to make this happen , and we can do it with the modern communications that ted has introduced .	我們必須做到這一點 , 並且我們能用現代溝通的方式來做這件事 。
already i've been tremendously heartened at the response of all our partners .	我一直都在對我們夥伴的反應感到很大 。
in singapore , we have a group going to use the charter to heal divisions recently that have sprung up in singaporean society , and some members of the parliament want to implement it politically .	在新加坡 , 我們有一群人在新加坡的新加坡社會中有一群人 , 有些會議員會想要實現它的政策 。
in malaysia , there is going to be an art exhibition in which leading artists are going to be taking people , young people , and showing them that compassion also lies at the root of all art .	在馬拉西亞 , 這裡有一場藝術展覽 , 展現了藝術展覽 , 讓藝術展現出同情心 , 讓藝術展現出同情心 。
throughout europe , the muslim communities are holding events and discussions , are discussing the centrality of compassion in islam and in all faiths .	在整個歐洲 , 穆斯林社區正在進行討論 , 討論了關於同情心和討論的核心 , 在伊斯蘭和所有信仰中 。
but it can't stop there . it can't stop with the launch .	但它不能停止 , 它不能停止 , 它無法停止 。
religious teaching , this is where we've gone so wrong , concentrating solely on believing abstruse doctrines .	宗教教導 , 這樣我們就錯了 , 聚集在信仰抽菸的教學上 。
religious teaching must always lead to action .	宗教教學必須總是導致行動 。
and i intend to work on this till my dying day .	而且我每天都在做這件事 。
and i want to continue with our partners to do two things educate and stimulate compassionate thinking .	我想繼續跟伴侶合作 , 來做兩件事 , 並激勵人心思維 。
education because we've so dropped out of compassion .	教育因爲我們從同情心中放棄 。
people often think it simply means feeling sorry for somebody .	人們常常認為這只是意味著對某人感到抱歉 。
but of course you don't understand compassion if you're just going to think about it .	但當然你不了解同情心 , 如果你只是去思考它 。
you also have to do it .	你也必須這麼做 。
i want them to get the media involved because the media are crucial in helping to dissolve some of the stereotypical views we have of other people , which are dividing us from one another .	我希望他們能參與媒體 , 因為媒體很重要 , 協助解除一些我們對其他人的觀點 , 把我們從另一邊的角度看出來 。
the same applies to educators .	教育家也一樣 。
i'd like youth to get a sense of the dynamism , the dynamic and challenge of a compassionate lifestyle .	我希望你們能感受到動態和挑戰 , 一個有同情心生活方式的動態和挑戰 。
and also see that it demands acute intelligence , not just a gooey feeling .	此外 , 還會發現 , 需要精確的智力 , 並不只是一種奇怪的感覺 。
i'd like to call upon scholars to explore the compassionate theme in their own and in other people's traditions .	我想要稱之為 「 學者 」 , 來探索同情心 , 和其他人的傳統 。
and perhaps above all , to encourage a sensitivity about uncompassionate speaking , so that because people have this charter , whatever their beliefs or lack of them , they feel empowered to challenge uncompassionate speech , disdainful remarks from their religious leaders , their political leaders , from the captains of industry .	最重要的是 , 若要鼓勵一個敏銳的信念 , 不論他們的信仰是什麼 , 或缺乏他們 , 他們的信仰會被強迫 , 不願意挑戰不平等的信念 , 不論他們的信仰是什麼 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 , 或缺乏他們自己的信仰 , 或缺乏他們自己的信仰 , 或缺乏他們自己的信仰 , 或缺乏他們自己的信仰 , 或缺乏他們自己的信仰 , 或缺乏他們自己的信仰 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 , 或缺乏他們自己的信仰 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 。
because we can change the world , we have the ability .	因為我們可以改變世界 , 我們有能力 。
i would never have thought of putting the charter online .	我從來沒有想過把電線放到網路上 。
i was still stuck in the old world of a whole bunch of boffins sitting together in a room and issuing yet another arcane statement .	我仍然困在舊世界裡 , 一整堆的瓶子在一個房間裡停下來 , 又有另一種說法 。
and ted introduced me to a whole new way of thinking and presenting ideas .	ted引導我介紹一個全新的思考和展示想法 。
because that is what is so wonderful about ted .	因為這對ted來說是很棒的 。
in this room , all this expertise , if we joined it all together , we could change the world .	在這個房間 , 所有的專家 , 如果我們加入一起 , 我們就能改變世界 。
and of course the problems sometimes seem insuperable .	當然 , 有時候似乎是不可思議的 。
but i'd just like to quote , finish at the end with a reference to a british author , an oxford author whom i don't quote very often , c . s . lewis .	但我想要引述一段時間 , 一位英國作家 , 一位英國作家 , 一位英國作家 , 我不曾引用過的句子 , 最後是英國作家 。
but he wrote one thing that stuck in my mind ever since i read it when i was a schoolgirl .	但他寫了一本書 , 從我讀到 , 當時我就讀到它 。
it's in his book " the four loves . "	他的書《四愛》中 。
he said that he distinguished between erotic love , when two people gaze , spellbound , into each other's eyes .	他說 , 身為雙方的眼睛 , 當兩人凝聚在一起時 , 彼此的眼睛 , 彼此的眼睛 。
and then he compared that to friendship , when two people stand side by side , as it were , shoulder to shoulder , with their eyes fixed on a common goal .	接著 , 他與朋友交友 , 當兩人站在肩膀上時 , 他們的眼睛在一個共同目標上 。
we don't have to fall in love with each other , but we can become friends .	我們不需要愛上彼此 , 但我們可以成為朋友 。
and i am convinced .	我說服了 。
i felt it very strongly during our little deliberations at vevey , that when people of all different persuasions come together , working side by side for a common goal , differences melt away .	我覺得這很強烈 , 在我們的小心裡 , 當人們同心協力 , 共同的目標 , 分裂時 , 會互相合作 。
and we learn amity .	我們學會了 。
and we learn to live together and to get to know one another .	我們一起學習 , 一起認識彼此 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝 。
david macaulay relives the winding and sometimes surreal journey toward the completion of rome antics , his illustrated homage to the historic city .	davidmacaulay重新改造了風力 , 並且有時候是漫畫的歷史城市 。
macarthur grant , art , arts , book , cities , communication , culture , design , entertainment , humor , storytelling	麥克拉瑟、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、藝術、書、城市、溝通、文化、設計、娛樂、幽默 , 說故事 。
i draw to better understand things .	我會更了解事物 。
sometimes i make a lot of drawings and i still don't understand what it is i'm drawing .	有時 , 我畫了很多畫 , 但我仍然不知道它是畫的是什麼 。
those of you who are comfortable with digital stuff and even smug about that relationship might be amused to know that the guy who is best known for " the way things work , " while preparing for part of a panel for called understanding , spent two days trying to get his laptop to communicate with his new cd burner .	數位化的人們 , 甚至會感到很舒服 , 可能是被稱為 「 工作 」 的一部分 , 花了兩天的時間 , 試著用他的筆記型電腦來溝通和他的新cd牛仔褲 。
who knew about extension managers ?	誰知道擴展管理者呢 ?
i've always managed my own extensions so it never even occurred to me to read the instructions , but i did finally figure it out . i had to figure it out , because along with the invitation came the frightening reminder that there would be no projector , so bringing those carousels would no longer be necessary but some alternate form of communication would .	總是經常管理我自己的延伸 , 儘管我還沒辦法去讀指示 , 但我終於找到了 。 我得以確認這一點 , 因此 , 我不得不去讀指令 , 讓我知道 , 要知道 , 我就得去讀指示 , 但最後我發現了 , 我也不得不去讀指令 , 讓這些車子不再是必要的 , 或其他其他的形式溝通 。
now , i could talk about something that i'm known for , something that would be particularly appropriate for many of the more technically minded people here , or i could talk about something i really care about .	現在 , 我可以談談我所熟知的東西 , 特別是適當許多更具技術性的人 , 或我可以談論我所知道的事 。
i decided to go with the latter .	我決定要去上帝 。
i'm going to talk about rome .	我要談羅馬 。
now , why would i care about rome , particularly ?	為什麼我關心羅馬 , 特別是呢 ?
well , i went to rhode island school of design in the second half of the '60s to study architecture .	在60年代 , 我去研究建築時 , 設計的第二半是研究建築 。
i was lucky enough to spend my last year , my fifth year , in rome as a student . it changed my life .	我很幸運地去年去年 , 在羅馬的一個學生 , 改變了我的人生 。
not the least reason was the fact that i had spent those first four years living at home , driving into risd everyday , driving back .	不是最少的原因是我在家裡花了四年的時間在家裡 , 開車回家 , 開車回來 。
i missed the '60s . i read about them ; i understand they were pretty interesting . i missed them , but i did spend that extraordinary year in rome , and it's a place that is never far from my mind .	我錯過了60年代 , 我閱讀了他們 , 我知道他們很有趣 , 但我在羅馬的日常生活中沒有遠離我的腦海 。
so , whenever given an opportunity , i try to do something in it or with it or for it .	所以 , 只要有機會 , 我試著做些什麼 , 或它 。
i also make drawings to help people understand things .	我也製作畫畫 , 幫助人們了解事物 。
things that i want them to believe i understand .	我希望他們相信我了解 。
and that's what i do as an illustrator , that's my job .	這是我的工作 , 就是我的工作 。
so , i'm going to show you some pictures of rome .	所以 , 我要給你們看一些羅馬的照片 。
i've made a lot of drawings of rome over the years .	多年來 , 我畫了羅馬的畫作 。
these are just drawings of rome . i get back as often as possible i need to .	這些都是羅馬的畫面 , 我回來時 , 我常常可以回來 。
all different materials , all different styles , all different times , drawings from sketchbooks looking at the details of rome .	各種不同的材料 , 各種不同的風格 , 每種不同的風格 , 每種不同的風格 , 都用在sketchbook的細節上 , 看看羅馬的細節 。
part of the reason i'm showing you these is that it sort of helps illustrate this process i go through of trying to figure out what it is i feel about rome and why i feel it .	我給你們看的原因之一 , 就是它幫助了我對羅馬以及為什麼我感受到的一切 。
these are sketches of some of the little details .	這些是一些細節的一些細節 。
rome is a city full of surprises .	羅馬是個城市充滿驚訝 。
i mean , we're talking about unusual perspectives , we're talking about narrow little winding streets that suddenly open into vast , sundrenched piazzas never , though , piazzas that are not humanly scaled .	我的意思是說 , 我們在談的是比較狹窄的小風街 , 突然間開放了廣大的陽光光線 , 沒有人規模的擴張 。
part of the reason for that is the fact that they grew up organically .	原因的原因之一是他們長大的機率 。
that amazing juxtaposition of old and new , the bits of light that come down between the buildings that sort of create a map that's traveling above your head of usually blue especially in the summer compared to the map that you would normally expect to see of conventional streets .	這種美妙的古老和新穎的藍色 , 通常會看到傳統的街道 , 通常會預期看到傳統的街道 。
and i began to think about how i could communicate this in book form .	我開始思考我要如何用書形式來溝通 。
how could i share my sense of rome , my understanding of rome ?	我要如何分享我對羅馬的理解羅馬 ?
and i'm going to show you a bunch of dead ends , basically .	接下來我要給你們看一堆死終 , 基本上就是這樣 。
the primary reason for all these dead ends is when if you're not quite sure where you're going , you're certainly not going to get there with any kind of efficiency .	所有這些死終結論的主要原因是:如果你不確定你在哪裡 , 你肯定不會得到任何效率 。
here's a little map . and i thought of maps at the beginning ; maybe i should just try and do a little atlas of my favorite streets and connections in rome .	這是一張小小的圖片 , 我在羅馬的街道上開始 , 也許我應該試著去做一些我最喜歡的街道和連結在羅馬的街道 。
and here's a line of text that actually evolves from the exhaust of a scooter zipping across the page .	這裡有一系列的文字 , 實際上是從頭部噴射出來的 。
here that same line of text wraps around a fountain in an illustration that can be turned upside down and read both ways .	同樣的線條在一個噴泉的線上 , 可以被轉換成一系列的文字 , 還可以翻譯成兩種方式 。
maybe that line of text could be a story to help give some human aspect to this .	也許那條文字可以成為一個故事 , 來協助給我們一些人的觀點 。
maybe i should get away from this map completely , and really be honest about wanting to show you my favorite bits and pieces of rome and simply kick a soccer ball in the air which happens in so many of the squares in the city and let it bounce off of things . and i'll simply explain what each of those things is that the soccer ball hits .	或許我應該從這張地圖上解放出來 , 我很誠實地告訴你們我最喜歡的一點點 , 和羅馬的一塊球 , 讓球撞上空氣中 , 並且讓它彈出一些東西 , 我只能說出這張地圖上最好的一面 , 並讓它從地圖上結束 , 然後我就能解釋一下 , 所有這些東西的一部分 , 只是踢足球鞋 。
that seemed like a sort of a cheap shot .	看起來就像一個廉價的照片 。
but even though i just started this presentation , this is not the first thing that i tried to do and i was getting sort of desperate .	但即便我剛剛開始講這個簡報 , 這不是我第一次嘗試做的事 , 也是我要做的事 。
eventually , i realized that i had really no content that i could count on , so i decided to move towards packaging .	最終 , 我意識到我沒有內容可以計算 , 所以我決定要搬向包裝 。
i mean , it seems to work for a lot of things .	我的意思是 , 這似乎有很多事 。
so i thought a little box set of four small books might do the trick .	所以我想一個小盒子的四個小小的書本可以做得很好 。
but one of the ideas that emerged from some of those sketches was the notion of traveling through rome in different vehicles at different speeds in order to show the different aspects of rome .	但其中一個想法是從這些石頭的角度來看羅馬的特點是透過羅馬交流 , 以不同的速度 , 來呈現出不同的角度 。
sort of an overview of rome and the plan that you might see from a dirigible .	像是你所見到的羅馬和計劃 , 你可能從可看到的景觀 。
quick snapshots of things you might see from a speeding motor scooter , and very slow walking through rome , you might be able to study in more detail some of the wonderful surfaces and whatnot that you come across .	快速飛過羅馬的飛行器 , 你可能可以研究更細節的一些美妙的表面 , 和你所看到的任何東西 。
anyways , i went back to the dirigible notion .	總之 , 我回到了不可思議的觀念 。
went to alberto santosdumont .	去阿爾伯托斯達爾伯圖 。
found one of his dirigibles that had enough dimensions so i could actually use it as a scale that i would then juxtapose with some of the things in rome .	發現他有足夠的維度 , 我可以用它作為一個規模 , 我可以用它作為一個規模 , 我可以用它作為一個規模 , 我可以用它作為一個規模 , 我可以用它作為一個規模 , 我可以用它作為一個大規模 。
this thing would be flying over or past or be parked in front of , but it would be like having a ruler sort of travel through the pages without being a ruler .	這種東西會飛過來 , 或在前面被打開 , 但它會像有一條規則 , 不用規則 , 不用規則 。
not that you know how long number 11 actually is , but you would be able to compare number 11 against the pantheon with number 11 against the baths of caracalla , and so on and so forth . if you were interested .	不曉得你有多長11點 , 所以 , 如果你有興趣的話 , 那麼 , 若你有興趣的話 , 那麼 , 等等 , 等等 , 如果你有興趣的話 。
this is beatrix . she has a dog named ajax , she has purchased a dirigible a small dirigible she's assembling the structure , ajax is sniffing for holes in the balloon before they set off .	這位是阿傑拉克 , 她有一隻狗叫ajajax , 她在氣球上飛行了一個小小的飛行器 , 牠在氣球上飛行了 。
she launches this thing above the spanish steps and sets off for an aerial tour of the city .	她在西班牙的旅程上飛行了 , 為了一個城市的旅程 。
over the spanish steps we go .	在西班牙的西班牙步驟 。
a nice way to show that river , that stream sort of pouring down the hill .	要展示河流的好處 , 河流是從山丘上走出來的 。
unfortunately , just across the road from it or quite close by is the column of marcus aurelius , and the diameter of the dirigible makes an impression , as you can see , as she starts trying to read the story that spirals around the column of marcus aurelius gets a little too close , nudges it .	不幸的是 , 在馬克里斯的普通公路下 , 一旦她開始嘗試閱讀故事 , 橫跨越道路 , 或非常靠近 , 由於馬里克•阿里斯的遺傳 , 讓她開始嘗試閱讀故事 , 橫跨越道路 , 或非常靠近 。
this gives me a chance to suggest to you the structure of the column of marcus aurelius , which is really no more than a pile of quarters high thick quarters . over the piazza of saint ignacio , completely ruining the symmetry , but that aside a spectacular place to visit .	這給了我一個建議 , 比起一堆四分之一的大樓高厚 , 四分之一的圓柱 , 完全破壞了對稱性 , 但這只是一個很大的衝突 , 完全破壞了對稱性 。
a spectacular framework , inside of which you see , usually , extraordinary blue sky .	一個壯觀的框架 , 你看到的 , 通常是特別的藍色天空 。
over the pantheon and the 26foot diameter oculus .	在神廟和26英尺的外面 。
she parks her dirigible , lowers the anchor rope and climbs down for a closer look inside .	她停下腳步 , 爬下更近的距離 。
the text here is right side and upside down so that you are forced to turn the book around , and you can see it from ground point of view and from her point of view looking in the hole , getting a different kind of perspective , moving you around the space . particularly appropriate in a building that can contain perfectly a sphere dimensions of the diameter being the same as the distance from the center of the floor to the center of the oculus .	這裡的文字是右邊的這張圖 , 你從地面上看 , 從地觀點來看 , 從地面來看 , 從地點角度看 , 從地點角度看 , 從地點角度看 , 從角度看 , 到處方形 , 從地面看 , 從地面角度看 , 從地面角度看 , 從地面角度看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀點看 , 從地面觀點看 , 從地面觀點看 , 從地面觀點看 , 從地面觀點看 , 從地點角度看 , 從地面觀點看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看 , 從地面觀看
unfortunately for her , the anchor line gets tangled around the feet of some boy scouts who are visiting the pantheon , and they are immediately yanked out and given an extraordinary but terrifying tour of some of the domes of rome , which would , from their point of view , naturally be hanging upside down .	不幸的是 , 她的家長們被帶走了一趟很不幸的事 , 他們馬上就被帶走了 , 很不幸地 , 她的家長會被帶走 , 很不幸地 , 她的家長會被帶走 , 很不幸地 , 他們立刻被打開 , 帶著一大群人走出去 , 很不幸地 , 她們會被帶走 , 她們立刻被打開 , 很不幸地 。
they bail out as soon as they get to the top of saint ivo , that little spiral structure you see there .	當他們到達山頂的時候 , 你看到的那個小小的螺旋結構 。
she continues on her way over piazza navona .	她繼續在她的路上穿過帕薩納瓦納 。
notices a lot of activity at the tre scalini restaurant , is reminded that it is lunchtime and she's hungry .	注意到 , 提醒了午餐時間 , 她飢餓了 。
they keep on motoring towards the campo de' fiori , which they soon reach . ajax the dog is put in a basket and lowered with a list of food into the marketplace , which flourishes there until about one in the afternoon , and then is completely removed and doesn't appear again until six or seven the following morning .	他們一直保持穩定 , 直到六到七個早晨 , 然後完全移除 , 然後完全消失 , 然後完全消失 , 直到六到七個早晨 。
anyway , the pooch gets back to the dirigible with the stuff .	總之 , 那些東西都可以回來了 。
unfortunately , when she goes to unwrap the prosciutto , ajax makes a lunge for it .	不幸的是 , 當她走到陰道時 , 阿賈克斯做了一個午餐 。
she's managed to save the prosciutto , but in the process she loses the tablecloth , which you can see flying away in the upper lefthand corner .	她被拯救了 , 但她失去了桌巾 , 你可以看到飛走在左上角 。
they continue without their tablecloth , looking for a place to land this thing so that they can actually have lunch .	他們繼續沒有他們的桌子 , 去找一個地方 , 在那裡他們可以吃午餐 。
they eventually discover a huge wall that's filled with small holes , ideal for docking a dirigible because you've got a place to tie up .	他們最終發現了一座巨大的牆 , 上面充滿了小洞 , 理想上 , 會被填滿小洞 , 理想上 , 因為你有一塊小洞 。
turns out to be the exterior wall that part of it that remains of the coliseum , so they park themselves there and have a terrific lunch and have a spectacular view .	結果是 , 公園裡有一個神奇的景觀 , 一個很棒的禮物 , 裡面有很驚人的景觀 。
at the end of lunch , they untie the anchor , they set off through the baths of caracalla and over the walls of the city and then an abandoned gatehouse and decide to take one more look at the pyramid of cestius , which has this lightning rod on top .	午餐結束時 , 他們打開了車道 , 把車子放在卡拉拉的牆上 , 然後放棄了 , 不管是哪裡 , 都要把卡拉爾的牆壁拆開 , 然後放棄 , 再加上一扇門 , 把車子放在卡拉牆上 , 再把一面牆上一邊 , 再來看看金字塔的道路 。
unfortunately , that's a problem: they get a little too close , and when you're in a dirigible you have to be very careful about spikes .	不幸的是 , 問題是:他們太緊密了 , 當你在一個難題時 , 你必須非常謹慎地照顧 。
so that sort of brings her little story to a conclusion .	所以 , 這將她的故事結合起來 。
marcello , on the other hand , is sort of a lazy guy , but he's not due at work until about noon .	馬塞爾 , 另一方面 , 麥可是有點瘋狂的傢伙 , 但他不在工作 , 直到休息 。
so , the alarm goes off and it's five to 12 or so .	所以 , 警察機關掉 , 5到12歲 。
he gets up , leaps onto his scooter , races through the city past the church of santa maria della pace , down the alleys , through the streets that tourists may be wandering through , disturbing the quiet backstreet life of rome at every turn .	他爬上去 , 走上街道 , 穿越了街道遊客 , 穿越了聖塔馬里亞的路線 , 穿越了街道 , 遊行 , 穿越了街道 , 旅遊者可能被穿過 , 走過街道 , 走到路上 , 穿越了街道遊客 , 走到路上 , 走到路上 。
that speed with which he is moving , i hope i have suggested in this little image , which , again , can be turned around and read from both sides because there's text on the bottom and text on the top , one of which is upside down in this image .	他正在移動的 , 我希望我建議在這個圖像中 , 可以從兩側邊緣 , 因為在上面的圖片中有文字 , 最上面的上面 , 上面寫著一句話 。
so , he keeps on moving , approaching an unsuspecting waiter who is trying to deliver two plates of linguine in a delicate white wine clam sauce to diners who are sitting at a table just outside of a restaurant in the street .	所以 , 他繼續移動 , 去找一個不顧問的朋友 , 他們坐在桌子上 , 坐在桌子旁邊 , 坐在桌子旁邊 , 坐在桌子旁邊的餐桌上 。
waiter catches on , but it's too late .	等待者抓住 , 但太遲了 。
and marcello keeps moving in his scooter .	馬賽爾也在他的飛行器上移動 。
everything he sees from this point on is slightly affected by the linguine , but keeps on moving because this guy's got a job to do .	他從這點中看到的一切 , 都從這個角度看來 , 但繼續移動 , 因為這傢伙的工作是要做的事 。
removes some scaffolding . one of the reasons rome remains the extraordinary place it is that because of scaffolding and the determination to maintain the fabric , it is a city that continues to grow and adapt to the needs of the particular time in which it finds itself , or we find it .	移除一些碎片 , 其中一個原因是 , 這個城市持續不斷成長和適應這些特定的位置 。 其中一個原因是 , 由於 , 不管是哪裡 , 或是我們找到它 , 就會發現它 。
right through the piazza della rotonda , in front of the pantheon again wreaking havoc and finally getting to work .	在這一邊 , 在潘尼亞的前面 , 威爾斯•羅頓達 , 終於開始工作 。
marcello , as it turns out , is the driver of the number 64 bus , and if you've been on the number 64 bus , you know that it's driven with the same kind of exuberance as marcello demonstrated on his scooter .	馬賽車是64公車的駕駛 , 你知道它的駕駛是64公車的駕駛 , 你知道它和火車的駕駛相同 。
and finally carletto . you see his apartment in the upper lefthand corner .	終於 , 他在左上角的公寓 。
he's looking at his table ; he's planning to propose this evening to his girlfriend of 40 years , and he wants it to be perfect .	他看著他的桌子 , 他打算給他的女友四十多歲 , 他希望它能完美 。
he's got candles out , he's got flowers in the middle and he's trying to figure out where to put the plates and the glasses .	他有花在中間 , 他試著弄清楚把盤子和玻璃放在一起 。
but he's not happy ; something's wrong .	但他不開心 , 錯了 。
the phone rings anyway , he's called to the palazzo .	電話響響 , 他打電話給palazo 。
he saunters he saunters at a good clip , but as compared to all the traveling we've just seen , he's sauntering .	他在一個很好的旅行中搜尋 , 但跟我們剛剛見過的所有旅程相比 , 他在一個好的旅行中 。
everybody knows carletto , because he's in entertainment , actually ; he's in television .	每個人都知道卡萊特 , 因為他在娛樂 , 實際上 , 他在電視上 。
he's actually in television repair , which is why people know him .	他其實是在電視修復 , 這就是為什麼有人知道他 。
so they all have his number .	所以他們都有他的數字 。
he arrives at the palazzo , arrives at the big front door .	他抵達大門前門 。
enters the courtyard and talks to the custodian , who tells him that there's been a disaster in the palazzo ; nobody's tvs are working and there's a big soccer game coming up , and the crowd is getting a little restless and a little nervous .	進入法院 , 跟客戶談話 , 說他在巴拉茲沒有人的電視 , 那裡有一場大型的賽會 , 會出現在巴拉茲 , 沒有人的電視 , 開始有一場大型的戰場 , 會出現在巴拉茲 , 沒有人的電視 。
he goes down to the basement and starts to check the wiring , and then gradually works his way up to the top of the building , apartment by apartment , checking every television , checking every connection , hoping to find out what this problem is .	他走到地下室 , 開始檢查每個電視 , 觀察每個電視 , 觀察每個電視 , 找出問題的狀況 。
he works his way up , finally , the grand staircase and then a smaller staircase until he reaches the attic .	他工作了最後 , 大樓梯 , 直到達成目標 。
he opens the window of the attic , of course , and there's a tablecloth wrapped around the building's television antenna .	他打開了窗戶的窗戶 , 當然 , 在建築的電視台上 , 有一個桌子可以打開窗戶 。
he removes it , the problems are solved , everybody in the palazzo is happy .	他移除了 , 問題解決了 , 所有人都很開心 。
and of course , he also solves his own problem .	當然 , 他也解決了自己的問題 。
all he has to do now , with a perfect table , is wait for her to arrive .	他現在要做的 , 一個完美的桌子 , 等著她到達 。
that was the first attempt , but it didn't seem substantial enough to convey whatever it was i wanted to convey about rome .	那是第一次嘗試 , 但它似乎不足以傳達我想要傳達的內容 。
so i thought , well , i'll just do piazzas , and i'll get inside and underneath and i'll show these things growing and show why they're shaped the way they are and so on .	所以我想 , 好吧 , 我會把這些東西放進去 , 然後我會看到它們的形狀 , 等等 。
and then i thought , that's too complicated . no , i'll just take my favorite bits and pieces and i'll put them inside the pantheon but keep the scale , so you can see the top of sant'ivo and the pyramid of cestius and the tempietto of bramante all side by side in this amazing space .	然後我想 , 這太複雜了 。 不 , 我會把我最喜歡的碎片和碎片拼湊起來 , 我會把它們放在神奇的空間中 , 這樣你就可以看見聖殿和巴西斯的頂部 , 和巴西斯蒂斯的小屋頂 , 和他們在神奇的空間中找到最好的條件 。
now that's one drawing , so i thought maybe it's time for piranesi to meet escher .	這是一幅畫作 , 所以我想也許是時候 , 靈感來找尋求者 。
you see that i'm beginning to really lose control here and also hope .	你可以看到 , 我開始失去控制 , 也希望 。
there's a very thin blue line of exhaust that sort of runs through this thing that would be kind of the trail that holds it all together .	有一個非常薄的藍色線 , 可以讓它整合在一起 。
then i thought , " wait a minute , what am i doing ? "	接著 , 我心想: 「 等等 , 我在做什麼 ? 」
a book is not only a neat way of collecting and storing information , it's a series of layers .	一本書不僅是一系列層面 , 包含和儲存資訊的一系列層面 。
i mean , you always peel one layer off another ; we think of them as pages , doing it a certain way .	我是說 , 你總是會把一層一層疊起來 , 我們把它視為頁面 , 以某種方式做事 。
but think of them as layers . i mean , rome is a place of layers horizontal layers , vertical layers and i thought , well just peeling off a page would allow me to if i got you thinking about it the right way would allow me to sort of show you the depth of layers .	但把它們視為層面 , 我是說 , 羅馬是一層層層、垂直層層、垂直層層的層面 , 我說 , 羅馬是一層層層的層面 , 我說 , 羅馬是一層層層的層面 , 我說 , 羅馬是一層層層的層面 , 我說 , 羅馬是一層層層的層面 , 我說 , 羅馬是一層層層的層次 。 我說 , 羅馬
the stucco on the walls of most of the buildings in rome covers the scars ; the scars of centuries of change as these structures have been adapted rather than being torn down .	羅馬大樓的牆壁上大部分的建築物都被綁架了 , 數百年以來都被改造 , 而不是被灌輸 。
if i do a foldout page on the lefthand side and let you just unfold it , you see behind it what i mean by scar tissue .	如果我在左手邊的一張折疊頁面 , 把你放到左手邊 , 你就會看到我的意思是殘酷的組織 。
you can see that in 1635 , it became essential to make smaller windows because the bad guys were coming or whatever .	你可以看到 , 在1635年 , 它變成了更小的窗戶 , 因為壞人就來了 。
adaptations all get buried under the stucco .	適應都被埋在地板上 。
i could peel out a page of this palazzo to show you what's going on inside of it .	我可以把這張圖片給你們看 , 裡面發生什麼事 。
but more importantly , i could also show you what it looks like at the corner of one of those magnificent buildings with all the massive stone blocks , or the fake stone blocks done with brick and stucco , which is more often the case .	更重要的是 , 我也能向你們展示它看起來像在那些巨大的石塊裡的圓圈 , 和磚塊 , 和磚塊 , 和磚塊 , 和磚塊 , 甚至是大型的石塊 。
so it becomes slightly threedimensional .	所以它變成了三度空間 。
i could take you down one of those narrow little streets into one of those surprising piazzas by using a double gate fold double foldout page which , if you were like me reading a popup book as a child , you hopefully stick your head into .	我可以把你的頭帶到一個小街道上 , 把你的頭帶到一個小街頭 , 像我讀一本書 , 一個小孩子 , 你希望把你的頭放進去 。
you wrap the pages around your head and are in that piazza for that brief period of time .	你把頁面的頁面掛在你頭部的那一刻 , 就在那段時間 。
and i've really not done anything much more complicated than make foldout pages .	我並沒有做任何比摺紙更複雜的東西 。
but then i thought , maybe i could be simpler here .	但我想 , 也許我可以更簡單 。
let's look at the pantheon and the piazza della rotonda in front of it .	咱們來看看亞茲薩•羅頓達在前面 。
here's a book completely wide open .	這是一本完全廣開的書 。
ok , if i don't open the book the whole way , if i just open it 90 degrees , we're looking down the front of the pantheon , and we're looking sort of at the top , more or less down on the square .	好吧 , 如果我不開開一本書 , 只要我開放了90度 , 我們就在方形上方形上 , 看到前面的方形 。
and if i turn the book the other way , we're looking across the square at the front of the pantheon .	如果我把這本書換成另一種方式 , 我們就在前面的廣場上看過方形 。
no foldouts , no tricks just a book that isn't open the whole way .	沒有摺紙 , 沒有一本書 , 沒有打開整個方法 。
that seemed promising . i thought , maybe i'll do it inside and i can even combine the foldouts with the only partially opened book .	聽起來很開心 , 我想 , 也許我可以把摺紙放在一起 , 只是開放的一本書 。
so we get inside the pantheon and it grows and so on and so forth .	所以 , 我們進入了神殿 , 成長等等 , 等等 。
and i thought , maybe i'm on the right track , but it sort of lost its human quality .	我想 , 也許我在正確的軌道上 , 但它失去了人類的品質 。
so i went back to the notion of story , which is always a good thing to have if you're trying to get people to pay attention to a book and pick up information along the way .	所以 , 我回到這個故事的概念 , 一直是好事 , 如果你試著讓人們注意一本書 , 把資料放在書上 , 就會得到資訊 。
" pigeon's progress " struck me as a catchy title .	「 鴿子進步 」 讓我變成了 「 鴿子的進步 」 。
if it was a homing pigeon , it would be called " homer's odyssey . "	如果它是一名叫做 「 家的奧德修斯 」 的名字 。
but it was the journey of the . . .	但它是這段旅程 。
i mean , if a title works , use it . but it would be a journey that went through rome and showed all the things that i like about rome .	我的意思是 , 如果一個標題 , 可以用它 , 但它會是個旅程 , 穿越羅馬的旅程 , 用它來呈現我所喜歡的羅馬 。
it's a pigeon sitting on top of a church .	這是一隻鴿子坐在教堂上 。
goes off during the day and does normal pigeon stuff . comes back , the whole place is covered with scaffolding and green netting and there's no way this pigeon can get home .	在日常的鴿子回來的時候 , 整個地方都被捕撈、綠色和綠色包裹著 , 完全沒有鴿子可以回家 。
so it's a homeless pigeon now and it's going to have to find another place to live , and that allows me to go through my catalog of favorite things , and we start with the tall ones and so on .	所以這是一隻無家可歸的旅鴿 , 牠必須找到另一個地方居住的地方 , 讓我可以從我最喜歡的物品開始 , 到那裡 , 牠會找到另一個地方 。
maybe it has to go back and live with family members ; that's not always a good thing , but it does sort of bring pigeons together again .	也許牠必須回到家族成員身上 , 不一定是好事 , 但它會帶鴿子回來 。
and i thought , that's sort of interesting , but maybe there's a person who should be involved in this in some way .	我覺得這很有趣 , 但也許有一個人應該參與其中 。
so i kind of came up with this old guy who spends his life looking after sick pigeons .	所以我想出了這個老傢伙 , 他花了他的生命在追蹤鴿子 。
he'll go anywhere to get them dangerous places and whatnot and they become really friends with this guy , and learn to do tricks for him and entertain him at lunchtime and stuff like that .	他會走到任何地方去到危險的地方 , 去找他 , 去找他 , 去找他們很危險的地方 , 並且學習技巧 , 讓他在午餐時間和其他地方工作 。
there's a real bond that develops between this old man and these pigeons .	這個老人和這些鴿子之間有真正的關聯性 。
but unfortunately he gets sick . he gets really sick at the end of the story .	但不幸的是 , 他病得很糟 , 他在故事的末端也很生病 。
he's taught them to spell his name , which is aldo .	他被教導要把他的名字叫作 , 即便是這樣 。
they show up one day after three or four days of not seeing him he lives in this little garret and they spell his name and fly around .	有一天 , 三到四天後 , 他們會看到他 , 沒有看到他住在這個小小的口袋裡 , 把他的名字和飛行走來 。
and he finally gets enough strength together to climb up the ladder onto the roof , and all the pigeons , a la red balloon , are there waiting for him and they carry him off over the walls of the city .	他終於有了足夠的力量 , 一起爬上梯子 , 走到屋頂上 , 所有的鴿子 , 一顆紅色氣球 , 在那裡等著他 , 然後他們帶著他走過牆壁 。
and i forgot to mention this: whenever he lost a pigeon , he would take that pigeon out beyond the walls of the city .	我忘記提到:當他失去鴿子時 , 他會把鴿子穿越牆壁 。
in the old roman custom , the dead were never buried within the walls .	在古羅馬的經營中 , 死人從未埋藏在牆壁中 。
and i thought that's a really cheery story .	我覺得那是個很棒的故事 。
. that's really going to go a long way .	這真的很長一段時間 。
so anyway , i went through . . . and again , if packaging doesn't work and if the stories aren't going anywhere , i just come up with titles and hope that a title will sort of kick me off in the right direction .	不管怎樣 , 我就不去了 , 如果包裝不在正確的方向上 , 我就在正確的方向前 , 把我拉到右邊的方向 。
and sometimes it does focus me enough and i'll even do a title page .	有時 , 我會把焦點放在我身上 , 甚至會做個標題 。
so , these are all title pages that eventually led me to the solution i settled on , which is the story of a young woman who sends a message on a homing pigeon she lives outside the walls of the city of rome to someone in the city .	這些都是這些標誌 , 最後引導我去解決方案 , 那就是一個年輕女人寄送訊息給她住在城市裡的一個小女子 。
and the pigeon is flying down above the appian way here .	鴿子就在飛機上飛下去 。
you can see the tombs and pines and so on and so forth along the way .	你可以看見炸彈和脊椎 , 以此類推 。
if you see the red line , you are seeing the trail of the pigeon ; if you don't see the red line , you are the pigeon .	如果你看紅線 , 你就看到紅線 , 你就是鴿子 。
and it becomes necessary and possible , at this point , to try to convey what that sense would be like of flying over the city without actually moving .	此時此刻 , 要試著傳達這個點子 , 要試著傳達這個點子 , 試圖傳達這個點子 , 試圖揭露出這種感覺在城市上飛行不動 。
past the pyramid of cestius these will seem very familiar to you , even if you haven't been to rome recently past the gatehouse .	過去的金字塔基金字塔看起來很熟悉 , 即使你以前也不是羅馬最近被送到gatehe 。
this is something that's a little bit unusual .	這有點不尋常 。
this pigeon does something that most homing pigeons do not do: it takes the scenic route , which was a device that i felt was necessary to actually extend this book beyond about four pages .	這隻鴿子不做的事 , 就是我覺得必要的裝置 , 其實是要延伸到這本書的書 , 遠超過四頁 。
so , we circle around the coliseum , past the church of santa maria in cosmedin and the temple of hercules towards the river .	所以 , 我們在聖塔馬亞的聖塔瑪亞 , 沿著聖塔瑪麗亞的聖誕節 , 到河流 。
we almost collide with the cornice of the palazzo farnese designed by michelangelo , built of stone taken from the coliseum narrow escape .	我們幾乎碰撞了從哥倫格羅的尼泊爾 , 被米開朗基羅所設計的石頭 , 被米開朗基羅 , 由一塊石頭從地底下建造的 。
we swoop down over the campo de' fiori .	我們在卡米爾夫球場上打下去 。
this is one of those things i show to my students because it's a complete bastardization a denial of any rules of perspective .	這是我對我的學生所展示的所有規則 , 因為它完全是完全禁止任何規則的觀點 。
the only rule of perspective that i think matters is if it looks believable , you've succeeded .	我所認為的唯一規則就是如果它看起來是可信的 , 你成功了 。
but you try and figure out where the vanishing points meet here ; a couple are on mars and a couple of others in cremona .	但你試著想出 , 火星和其他地方在哪裡 , 火星和其他其他地方 。
but into the piazza in front of santa maria della pace , where invariably a soccer game is going on , and we're hit by a soccer ball .	但在聖誕節的前面 , 在聖塔馬亞加上 , 一個足球賽 , 我們被踢球 。
now this is a terrible illustration of being hit by a soccer ball .	這是個很可怕的幻覺 , 由足球球所拍攝 。
i have all the pieces: there's santa maria della pace , there's a soccer ball , there's a little bit of a bird's wing nothing's happening , so i had to rethink it .	我有一些鳥類的翅膀 , 沒有任何東西發生 , 所以我必須重新思考它 。
and if you do want to see santa maria della pace , these books are really flexible , incredibly interactive just turn it around and look at it the other way .	如果你想看到聖誕老人 , 這本書是很有彈性的 , 很容易的 , 可以讓它轉變 , 並且以另一種方式來看它 。
through the alley , we can see the impact is captured in the red line .	藉由紅線 , 我們能看到影響在紅線上被捕捉 。
and then bird manages to pull itself together past this medieval tower one of the few remaining medieval towers towards the church of sant'agnese and around the dome looking down into piazza navona which we've already mentioned and seen and flown over a couple of times ; there's the bernini statue of the four rivers and then past the wonderful borromini sant'ivo , stopping just long enough on the 26foot diameter oculus of the pantheon to catch our breath .	接著 , 鳥類管理會把它們帶到一邊最好的巴黎明尼河 , 穿越了美麗的巴西尼尼雕像 , 四河流過來 , 直到我們剛剛提到的 , 漫長在26英尺深的直徑上 , 穿越了美麗的巴西尼尼雕像 , 四河流過來 , 最後又有了美麗的貝尼尼雕像 , 穿越了美麗的巴西尼尼雕像 , 四河流過來 , 直到我們剛剛提到 , 停止足夠久以26英尺深的直徑 。
and then we can swoop inside and around ; and because we're flying , we don't really have to worry about gravity at this particular moment in time , so this drawing can be oriented in any way on the page .	然後我們就在飛行 , 我們不需要擔心重力在哪裡 , 所以這張圖片可以隨時隨地產生 。
we get a little exuberant as we pass gesu ; it's not surprising to sort of mimic the architecture in this way .	當我們通過gesu時 , 它並不意外會模仿這個建築 。
past the wonderful wall filled with the juxtaposition that i was talking about ; beautiful carvings set into the walls above the neon " ristorante " sign , and so on .	美妙的牆壁上滿滿了我剛剛談過的美麗的牆壁 , 被稱為 「 監獄 」 的標誌 , 同時也出現了 。
and eventually , we arrive at the courtyard of the palazzo , which is our destination .	最終 , 我們抵達了帕拉茲的庭院 , 那是我們的目的地 。
straight up through the courtyard into a little window into the attic , where somebody is working at the drawing board .	直到一邊 , 有人在畫板上工作 , 正在畫板上畫板 。
he removes the message from the leg of the bird ; this is what it says .	牠從鳥類的訊息傳遞出來 , 這是它所說的 。
as we look at the drawing board , we see what he's working on is , in fact , a map of the journey that the pigeon has just taken , and the red line extends through all the sights .	當我們看著畫板時 , 我們看到他正在努力的地圖 , 紅線延伸到所有洞穴的地圖 。
and if you want the information , so that we complete this cycle of understanding , all you have to do is read these paragraphs .	如果你想要這些資訊 , 我們就完成了這個循環 , 你知道的 , 你必須做的就是閱讀這些文章 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝 。
mit researcher skylar tibbits works on selfassembly the idea that instead of building something , we can create materials that build themselves , much the way a strand of dna zips itself together . it's a big concept at early stages ; tibbits shows us three inthelab projects that hint at what a selfassembling future might look like .	麻省理工學院學院學院的研究者 , 不是建造東西 , 我們能創造出材料 , 建立自己組合的結構 , 來建造一些東西 , 我們能創造出自己組裝的材料 , 可以製造出自我組裝的樣子 , 像是在自我組裝的過程中 , 可以製造出自己組裝的樣子 。
skylar tibbits: can we make things that make themselves ?	太陽能板 , 可以讓我們自己做些東西嗎 ?
today i'd like to show you the future of the way we make things .	今天我要向你們展示我們製造東西的未來 。
i believe that soon our buildings and machines will be selfassembling , replicating and repairing themselves .	我相信 , 我們的建築物和機器會自我組合 , 複製並修復自己 。
so i'm going to show you what i believe is the current state of manufacturing , and then compare that to some natural systems .	所以 , 我要向你們展示我所相信的目前的製造過程 , 然後將它與某些自然系統相比較 。
so in the current state of manufacturing , we have skyscrapers two and a half years [of assembly time] , 500 , 000 to a million parts , fairly complex , new , exciting technologies in steel , concrete , glass .	所以 , 在現有的技術上 , 我們有天花板 , 兩年半的時間 , 大約有五十萬到一百萬個部分 , 非常複雜、新的、令人興奮的科技 , 包括鋼、混凝土、玻璃 。
we have exciting machines that can take us into space five years [of assembly time] , 2 . 5 million parts .	我們有很興奮的機器可以帶我們進入太空五百萬個部分 。
but on the other side , if you look at the natural systems , we have proteins that have two million types , can fold in 10 , 000 nanoseconds , or dna with three billion base pairs we can replicate in roughly an hour .	但另一方面 , 如果你觀察自然系統 , 我們有兩百萬種類型的蛋白質 , 有兩百萬種類型 , 或dna , 或dna中有兩百萬種類型 , 可以摺疊在大約一小時之內 。
so there's all of this complexity in our natural systems , but they're extremely efficient , far more efficient than anything we can build , far more complex than anything we can build .	所以 , 我們的自然系統中有很多複雜的系統 , 但它們非常有效率 , 比任何我們能建造的東西更有效率 , 遠比任何我們能建造的東西更有效率 。
they're far more efficient in terms of energy .	它們在能源方面更有效率 。
they hardly ever make mistakes .	他們很難犯錯 。
and they can repair themselves for longevity .	他們可以修復自己長壽 。
so there's something super interesting about natural systems .	所以 , 自然系統有很有趣的東西 。
and if we can translate that into our built environment , then there's some exciting potential for the way that we build things .	如果我們能把它轉化成我們的建築環境 , 那就有一些令人興奮的潛力在我們建造東西 。
and i think the key to that is selfassembly .	我認為關鍵是自我組裝 。
so if we want to utilize selfassembly in our physical environment , i think there's four key factors .	所以如果我們想要在我們的物理環境中運作 , 我認為有四個關鍵因素 。
the first is that we need to decode all of the complexity of what we want to build so our buildings and machines .	首先 , 我們需要解碼所有我們所想要的複雜性 , 來建造我們的建築物和機器 。
and we need to decode that into simple sequences basically the dna of how our buildings work .	我們需要解碼成簡單的序列基本上就是我們的建築物的運作方式 。
then we need programmable parts that can take that sequence and use that to fold up , or reconfigure .	接著 , 我們需要編寫程式的部分 , 可以採取那個序列 , 用它來摺疊或重複 。
we need some energy that's going to allow that to activate , allow our parts to be able to fold up from the program .	我們需要一些能量 , 使我們能夠從這個程式中解開 。
and we need some type of error correction redundancy to guarantee that we have successfully built what we want .	我們需要一些類型錯誤的角度 , 來確保我們成功地建立我們所想要的 。
so i'm going to show you a number of projects that my colleagues and i at mit are working on to achieve this selfassembling future .	我要給你們看一些我同事和麻省理工學院的專案計畫 , 在麻省理工學院正在努力達成這個自我組裝的未來 。
the first two are the macrobot and decibot .	第一兩個是麥克魯機器人和機器人 。
so these projects are largescale reconfigurable robots 8 ft . , 12 ft . long proteins .	這些計畫是大規模的可重視機器人 , 十二英尺 , 十二英呎長的蛋白質 。
they're embedded with mechanical electrical devices , sensors .	他們用機械電裝裝置 , 感測器 。
you decode what you want to fold up into , into a sequence of angles so negative 120 , negative 120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , negative 120 something like that ; so a sequence of angles , or turns , and you send that sequence through the string .	你解碼你想要摺疊成一個序列的角度 , 一個序列的角度 , 0、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120、120
each unit takes its message so negative 120 it rotates to that , checks if it got there and then passes it to its neighbor .	每一個單位都將它傳送到它的鄰居 , 把它送到鄰居 , 去看它的鄰居 。
so these are the brilliant scientists , engineers , designers that worked on this project .	這些是聰明的科學家 , 工程師 , 設計師在這個項目上工作 。
and i think it really brings to light: is this really scalable ?	我認為這真的會帶來光線:這真的很可怕嗎 ?
i mean , thousands of dollars , lots of man hours made to make this eightfoot robot .	我的意思是 , 數千美元 , 許多人小時製造這個八呎的機器人 。
can we really scale this up ? can we really embed robotics into every part ?	我們能否真的把這些機械化成每一個部分 ?
the next one questions that and looks at passive nature , or passively trying to have reconfiguration programmability .	下一個問題是 , 通過性自然 , 或通過性地嘗試修復程式設計 。
but it goes a step further , and it tries to have actual computation .	但它又更進一步 , 試著用實際的計算 。
it basically embeds the most fundamental building block of computing , the digital logic gate , directly into your parts .	它基本上是用來計算數位邏輯 , 直接進入你的部分 。
so this is a nand gate .	所以這是一個nandgate 。
you have one tetrahedron which is the gate that's going to do your computing , and you have two input tetrahedrons .	你有兩個輸入的鐵路 , 它會讓你運輸 , 而你有兩個輸入鐵 。
one of them is the input from the user , as you're building your bricks .	其中之一是使用者的輸入 , 如你所建造的磚塊一樣 。
the other one is from the previous brick that was placed .	另外一個是從前面的磚塊開始 。
and then it gives you an output in 3d space .	然後它會給你一個輸入3d空間 。
so what this means is that the user can start plugging in what they want the bricks to do .	意思是 , 使用者可以開始在他們想要磚塊的情況下做些什麼 。
it computes on what it was doing before and what you said you wanted it to do .	它計算了它在做什麼 , 和你說你想要做的事 。
and now it starts moving in threedimensional space so up or down .	現在它開始在三維空間中移動 , 或下面 。
so on the lefthand side , [1 , 1] input equals 0 output , which goes down .	在左手邊 , 1.1 , 輸入平等0 , 輸入 , 結果是下降 。
on the righthand side , [0 , 0] input is a 1 output , which goes up .	在右手邊 , 0.0輸入是1個輸入 , 0.輸入是1輸入 。
and so what that really means is that our structures now contain the blueprints of what we want to build .	這意味著 , 我們的結構現在包含了我們想要建造的藍圖 。
so they have all of the information embedded in them of what was constructed .	所以他們有所有的資訊被建構出來 。
so that means that we can have some form of selfreplication .	這意味著我們可以有某種形式的自我複製 。
in this case i call it selfguided replication , because your structure contains the exact blueprints .	在這個案例中 , 我稱它為自我複製 , 因為你的結構包含了藍圖 。
if you have errors , you can replace a part .	如果你有錯誤 , 你可以取代一部分 。
all the local information is embedded to tell you how to fix it .	所有當地的資訊都被嵌入 , 告訴你如何解決這個問題 。
so you could have something that climbs along and reads it and can output at one to one .	所以你可以有一些爬行器 , 閱讀它 , 然後把它輸入到其中一個 。
it's directly embedded ; there's no external instructions .	它直接被嵌入 , 沒有外外的指令 。
so the last project i'll show is called biased chains , and it's probably the most exciting example that we have right now of passive selfassembly systems .	最後一個項目叫做biaschins , 它可能是最令人興奮的例子 , 就是我們有自動自組系統 。
so it takes the reconfigurability and programmability and makes it a completely passive system .	所以 , 它需要重組和系統 , 讓它完全被動系統 。
so basically you have a chain of elements .	基本上你有一連串元素 。
each element is completely identical , and they're biased .	每個元素都是完全相同的 , 它們偏見 。
so each chain , or each element , wants to turn right or left .	所以每一個鏈 , 或左派 , 都想要轉右或左邊 。
so as you assemble the chain , you're basically programming it .	所以當你組裝鏈 , 你基本上是編寫它 。
you're telling each unit if it should turn right or left .	你要告訴每一個單位 , 如果它應該轉右或左右 。
so when you shake the chain , it then folds up into any configuration that you've programmed in so in this case , a spiral , or in this case , two cubes next to each other .	所以當你搖晃鏈時 , 它會折疊成你所編寫的結構 , 例如 , 一個螺旋 , 或在這個例子中 , 兩個立方體 。
so you can basically program any threedimensional shape or onedimensional , twodimensional up into this chain completely passively .	所以你基本上可以用三維空間的形狀或維度 , 維持到這個鏈完全完全被動的位置 。
so what does this tell us about the future ?	所以 , 這告訴我們未來的未來是什麼 ?
i think that it's telling us that there's new possibilities for selfassembly , replication , repair in our physical structures , our buildings , machines .	我認為 , 它告訴我們 , 我們的建築物、機器 , 會有新的可能性 , 自我組合、複製、修復 。
there's new programmability in these parts .	在這些部分中有新的程式能力 。
and from that you have new possibilities for computing .	從你有新的可能性來計算 。
we'll have spatial computing .	我們將會有空間計算 。
imagine if our buildings , our bridges , machines , all of our bricks could actually compute .	想像一下 , 如果我們的建築、橋樑、機器 , 所有的磚塊都可以計算 。
that's amazing parallel and distributed computing power , new design possibilities .	這是很棒的平行和分配計算能力 , 新的設計可能性 。
so it's exciting potential for this .	所以這是令人興奮的潛力 。
so i think these projects i've showed here are just a tiny step towards this future , if we implement these new technologies for a new selfassembling world .	所以我認為這些我剛剛所展示的新技術 , 是一個小步向未來邁進 , 如果我們實施這些新技術 , 一個新的自我組裝世界 。
we've been to the moon , we've mapped the continents , we've even been to the deepest point in the ocean twice . what's left for the next generation to explore ? biologist and explorer nathan wolfe suggests this answer: almost everything . and we can start , he says , with the world of the unseeably small .	我們登陸月球 , 我們已經到達地球上最深的一點點 , 在海底下一代要去探索生物學家和探索生物學家和探索生物學家和探險家納森•沃爾夫提出答案:幾乎所有東西 , 我們都能開始 , 說 , 地球上最深的一點點 。
biodiversity , exploration , microbiology , science	生物多樣性、探索、生物多樣性、探索、微生物學 。
nathan wolfe: what's left to explore ?	nathanwolfe:我們要探究什麼 ?
recently i visited beloit , wisconsin .	最近我去拜訪了布萊斯康斯康斯康斯康 。
and i was there to honor a great 20th century explorer , roy chapman andrews .	我很榮幸 , 二十世紀的探險家 , 羅伊•查普曼和雷斯 。
during his time at the american museum of natural history , andrews led a range of expeditions to uncharted regions , like here in the gobi desert .	在美國自然歷史博物館中 , 博物館長期以來未知的區域 , 如今 , 阿拉伯沙漠 。
he was quite a figure .	他真是太棒了 。
he was later , it's said , the basis of the indiana jones character .	後來 , 他就說 , 印度娜瓊斯特的基礎 。
and when i was in beloit , wisconsin , i gave a public lecture to a group of middle school students .	當我在布魯威斯康斯康辛時 , 我給一群中學學生提供了公共演講 。
and i'm here to tell you , if there's anything more intimidating than talking here at ted , it'll be trying to hold the attention of a group of a thousand 12yearolds for a 45minute lecture .	我在這裡要告訴各位 , 如果有比在ted演講中有更嚇人的注意 , 會試著把注意力集成一千個12歲的人 , 一個45分鐘的演講 。
at the end of the lecture they asked a number of questions , but there was one that's really stuck with me since then .	在課程結束時 , 他們問了幾個問題 , 但有一件事我很困惑 。
there was a young girl who stood up , and she asked the question: " where should we explore ? "	有一個年輕的女孩站起來 , 她問了這個問題: 「 我們該探索什麼 ? 」
i think there's a sense that many of us have that the great age of exploration on earth is over , that for the next generation they're going to have to go to outer space or the deepest oceans in order to find something significant to explore .	我認為 , 很多人有許多人在地球上最深層的探索 , 在地球上 , 他們必須去外太空或最深的海洋 , 才能找到有意義的探索 。
but is that really the case ?	但這真的是真的嗎 ?
is there really nowhere significant for us to explore left here on earth ?	在地球上 , 我們還沒有極大的目標 , 才能探究地球嗎 ?
it sort of made me think back to one of my favorite explorers in the history of biology .	這讓我覺得回到我最愛的探險家之一 。
this is an explorer of the unseen world , martinus beijerinck .	這是未知世界的探險家 , 馬丁斯•貝吉克 。
so beijerinck set out to discover the cause of tobacco mosaic disease .	所以beijerinck發現了菸草疾病的成果 。
what he did is he took the infected juice from tobacco plants and he would filter it through smaller and smaller filters .	他做的是 , 他把感染的液汁從菸草植物中吸收 , 用過更小的濾器 。
and he reached the point where he felt that there must be something out there that was smaller than the smallest forms of life that were ever known bacteria , at the time .	他接觸到他覺得一定要比最小的生命中所知的細菌更小 , 更小 。
he came up with a name for his mystery agent .	他提出了一個名字 , 名字是他的謎團 。
he called it the virus latin for " poison . "	他稱之為 「 毒藥 」 。
and in uncovering viruses , beijerinck really opened this entirely new world for us .	在未知的病毒中 , 貝莉克真的打開了這個全新的世界 。
we now know that viruses make up the majority of the genetic information on our planet , more than the genetic information of all other forms of life combined .	我們現在知道病毒會在地球上大部分的基因信息 , 比起所有其他生命組合的基因信息 。
and obviously there's been tremendous practical applications associated with this world things like the eradication of smallpox , the advent of a vaccine against cervical cancer , which we now know is mostly caused by human papillomavirus .	很顯然 , 這種世界有很大的實際應用 , 例如 , 避免疫苗的抗爭 , 我們現在知道的主要是由人類的普羅馬病毒組成 。
and beijerinck's discovery , this was not something that occurred 500 years ago .	beijerinck的發現 , 這不是發生在500年前的事 。
it was a little over 100 years ago that beijerinck discovered viruses .	大約一百年前 , 蜜蜂鳥發現了病毒 。
so basically we had automobiles , but we were unaware of the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	基本上 , 我們有自動飛行器 , 但是我們沒有意識到地球上所有基因資訊的形式 。
we now have these amazing tools to allow us to explore the unseen world things like deep sequencing , which allow us to do much more than just skim the surface and look at individual genomes from a particular species , but to look at entire metagenomes , the communities of teeming microorganisms in , on and around us and to document all of the genetic information in these species .	現在我們有了這些奇妙的工具讓我們能夠探討從特定物種的微生物群體的微生物群體 , 讓我們去探索未知的世界 , 像是深度序列 , 讓我們能夠從特殊的物種中尋找基因組 , 不論是哪種類型的微生物 , 都能讓我們去探索未知的環境 , 像是深度序列 , 來記錄所有遺傳資訊 。
we can apply these techniques to things from soil to skin and everything in between .	我們可以應用這些技術從土壤到皮膚 , 到任何東西 。
in my organization we now do this on a regular basis to identify the causes of outbreaks that are unclear exactly what causes them .	在我的組織中 , 我們現在用一種規定的基準來判斷出爆發的疫情 , 不會造成它們 。
and just to give you a sense of how this works , imagine that we took a nasal swab from every single one of you .	為了讓大家了解這個作品如何運作 , 想像一下 , 想像我們從每個人身上拿出一根口味 。
and this is something we commonly do to look for respiratory viruses like influenza .	這是我們常常做的事 , 尋找呼吸道病毒 , 像是流感病毒 。
the first thing we would see is a tremendous amount of genetic information .	首先我們會看到的是巨大的基因信息 。
and if we started looking into that genetic information , we'd see a number of usual suspects out there of course , a lot of human genetic information , but also bacterial and viral information , mostly from things that are completely harmless within your nose .	如果我們開始研究這些基因信息 , 我們會看到許多人的基因信息 , 大部分是來自於你鼻子裡的細菌和病毒資訊 。
but we'd also see something very , very surprising .	但我們也看到了一些非常令人驚訝的事情 。
as we started to look at this information , we would see that about 20 percent of the genetic information in your nose doesn't match anything that we've ever seen before no plant , animal , fungus , virus or bacteria .	當我們開始觀察這些資訊時 , 我們會看到大約20%的基因信息 , 你鼻子裡的遺傳信息並不符合我們所見過的基因信息 , 不論是在沒有植物、動物、病毒或細菌之間的遺傳信息 。
basically we have no clue what this is .	基本上 , 我們不知道這是什麼 。
and for the small group of us who actually study this kind of data , a few of us have actually begun to call this information biological dark matter .	對於我們這些數據的小組 , 我們實際上研究這種數據 , 其中一些人已經開始稱之為 「 資訊生物暗物質 」 。
we know it's not anything that we've seen before ; it's sort of the equivalent of an uncharted continent right within our own genetic information .	我們知道它不是我們以前所見過的 , 它在我們自己的基因信息中 , 完全不一樣 。
and there's a lot of it .	還有很多 。
if you think 20 percent of genetic information in your nose is a lot of biological dark matter , if we looked at your gut , up to 40 or 50 percent of that information is biological dark matter .	如果你認為20%的基因信息是生物暗物質 , 如果我們觀察你的腸道 , 大約有40或50%的基因信息是生物暗物質 。
and even in the relatively sterile blood , around one to two percent of this information is dark matter can't be classified , can't be typed or matched with anything we've seen before .	即使在相對較低的血液中 , 大約有1%到2%的信息是暗物質無法被分類或配合我們所見過的東西 。
at first we thought that perhaps this was artifact .	首先我們認為也許是人造物品 。
these deep sequencing tools are relatively new .	這些深度的序列工具相對比較新 。
but as they become more and more accurate , we've determined that this information is a form of life , or at least some of it is a form of life .	但隨著它們變得越來越精確 , 我們決定信息是生命的一種形式 , 或者至少有些是生命的形式 。
and while the hypotheses for explaining the existence of biological dark matter are really only in their infancy , there's a very , very exciting possibility that exists: that buried in this life , in this genetic information , are signatures of as of yet unidentified life .	雖然假設解釋了生物暗物質的存在 , 只是在它們的生態暗物質中 , 存在著非常令人興奮的可能性:埋藏在這個生命中 , 在這個基因信息中 , 存在著生命中 , 存在著這種遺傳信息 。
that as we explore these strings of a's , t's , c's and g's , we may uncover a completely new class of life that , like beijerinck , will fundamentally change the way that we think about the nature of biology .	當我們探索這些弦時 , 基礎上 , 我們可能會發現一個全新的生命 , 例如 , 基礎 , 改變我們對生物學的看法 。
that perhaps will allow us to identify the cause of a cancer that afflicts us or identify the source of an outbreak that we aren't familiar with or perhaps create a new tool in molecular biology .	這或許會讓我們找出癌症的起源 , 或找出我們早期不熟悉的疾病 , 或找出我們所熟悉的新工具 , 或找出疾病的疾病 。
i'm pleased to announce that , along with colleagues at stanford and caltech and ucsf , we're currently starting an initiative to explore biological dark matter for the existence of new forms of life .	我很高興地宣布 , 在史丹佛、加州史丹福大學、加州史丹福大學的同事們 , 我們現在正在開啟一個探討生物暗物質 , 來探索生物暗物質 , 來探索生物暗物質 。
a little over a hundred years ago , people were unaware of viruses , the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	一百多年前 , 人們沒有意識到病毒 , 生命的形式 , 形成了我們地球上大部分的基因信息 。
a hundred years from now , people may marvel that we were perhaps completely unaware of a new class of life that literally was right under our noses .	一百年後 , 人類可能完全不知道我們在鼻子裡的新階段 , 可能完全沒有意識到 。
it's true , we may have charted all the continents on the planet and we may have discovered all the mammals that are out there , but that doesn't mean that there's nothing left to explore on earth .	是真的 , 我們可能在地球上發現所有的哺乳動物 , 但這並不表示 , 地球上沒有任何東西 。
beijerinck and his kind provide an important lesson for the next generation of explorers people like that young girl from beloit , wisconsin .	威斯康斯康斯康辛 , 他對下一代的探險家提出了很重要的課題 , 像是那位年輕女孩 , 伊吉維斯康斯康 。
and i think if we phrase that lesson , it's something like this: don't assume that what we currently think is out there is the full story .	我想 , 如果我們把這句話說出來 , 那就像這樣:不假設我們現在認為的 , 其實就是這樣:不假設我們現在在想什麼是全部的故事 。
go after the dark matter in whatever field you choose to explore .	除非你選擇去探索的暗物質 。
there are unknowns all around us and they're just waiting to be discovered .	不知我們周遭的環境 , 都等著被發現 。
legendary scientist david deutsch puts theoretical physics on the back burner to discuss a more urgent matter: the survival of our species . the first step toward solving global warming , he says , is to admit that we have a problem .	科學家daviddeutsch把理論物理放在回饋上 , 說 , 要承認我們有一個問題 , 要承認我們有一個問題 。
climate change , cosmos , culture , environment , global issues , physics , science , technology , universe	氣候變遷、宇宙、文化、環境、全球議題、物理、科學、科技 , 等等 。
david deutsch on our place in the cosmos	大衛•迪德在宇宙中所處的宇宙中 。
we've been told to go out on a limb and say something surprising .	我們被告知要走出來 , 說出令人意外的事 。
so i'll try and do that , but i want to start with two things that everyone already knows .	我會試著做這件事 , 但我想要從兩件事開始 , 大家都知道的 。
and the first one , in fact , is something that has been known for most of recorded history .	首先 , 事實上 , 大部分的記錄歷史都已知名 。
and that is that the planet earth , or the solar system , or our environment or whatever , is uniquely suited to sustain our evolution or creation , as it used to be thought and our present existence , and most important , our future survival .	也就是說 , 地球 , 或太陽系 , 或我們的環境 , 或任何東西 , 都能維持我們的演化和創造力 , 以至於我們現在存在 , 最重要的是 , 我們的未來存活 。
nowadays this idea has a dramatic name: spaceship earth .	現今 , 這個想法有一個很戲劇性的名字:太空船 。
and the idea there is that outside the spaceship , the universe is implacably hostile , and inside is all we have , all we depend on .	而在太空船外太空船外太空船外太空船 , 宇宙是超級的 , 宇宙是無所不在的 , 我們都仰賴 。
and we only get the one chance: if we mess up our spaceship , we've got nowhere else to go .	我們只有一個機會:如果我們放棄太空船 , 我們就沒辦法去了 。
now , the second thing that everyone already knows is that contrary to what was believed for most of human history , human beings are not , in fact , the hub of existence .	第二件事 , 大家都知道 , 人類的歷史 , 人類的歷史 , 其實是不存在的 。
as stephen hawking famously said , we're just a chemical scum on the surface of a typical planet that's in orbit around a typical star , which is on the outskirts of a typical galaxy , and so on .	如史蒂芬霍金曾說過 , 我們只是一個典型的星球在典型的星系的外星 , 一個典型的星球 , 在一個典型的星球上 , 它在一個典型的星球上 , 繞著一個典型的星球 。
now the first of those two things that everyone knows is kind of saying that we're at a very untypical place , uniquely suited and so on , and the second one is saying that we're at a typical place .	大家都知道的第一句話是:我們在一個典型的地方 , 獨一無二的 , 第二個是說 , 我們在一個典型的地方 。
and especially if you regard these two as deep truths to live by and to inform your life decisions , then they seem a little bit to conflict with each other .	尤其是如果你把這兩者視為是深刻的真相 , 那麼他們似乎會互相衝突 。
but that doesn't prevent them from both being completely false .	但這並不會阻止他們完全錯誤 。
and they are . so let me start with the second one: typical . well is this a typical place ? well , let's look around , you know , and look in a random direction , and we see a wall , and chemical scum and that's not typical of the universe at all .	第二個問題是:典型的 。 嗯 , 嗯 , 讓我們看看一下 , 一個典型的空間 。 嗯 , 我們看一下 , 一個典型的空間 , 一個典型的空間 , 我們看到牆 , 和化學物質 , 而不是典型的宇宙 。
all you've got to do is go a few hundred miles in that same direction and look back , and you won't see any walls or chemical scum at all all you see is a blue planet . and if you go further than that , you'll see the sun , the solar system , and the stars and so on .	你所看到的只有一個藍色的星球 , 如果你遠遠超過一百英里 , 你就會看到太陽、太陽、太陽、太陽、太陽系 , 以及恆星 。
but that's still not typical of the universe , because stars come in galaxies .	但這仍然不是典型的宇宙 , 因為恆星在銀河系 。
and most places in the universe , a typical place in the universe , is nowhere near any galaxies .	在宇宙中 , 大部分的地方在宇宙中 , 幾乎沒有任何銀河系 。
so let's go out further , till we're outside the galaxy , and look back , and yeah , there's the huge galaxy with spiral arms laid out in front of us .	讓我們再進一步 , 向外星系 , 向外星系 , 向外星系 , 向外星系 , 向外星系 , 向外星系 , 向外星系 。
and at this point we've come 100 , 000 light years from here .	在這個時點 , 我們已經有十萬光年了 。
but we're still nowhere near a typical place in the universe .	但我們仍然處於宇宙中一個典型的地方 。
to get to a typical place , you've got to go 1 , 000 times as far as that into intergalactic space .	要達到一個典型的地方 , 你必須走到一千倍以外的空間 , 來到一個典型的地方 。
and so what does that look like ? typical .	那看起來是什麼樣子呢 ?
what does a typical place in the universe look like ?	宇宙中典型的宇宙是什麼樣子 ?
well , at enormous expense , ted has arranged a highresolution immersion virtual reality rendering of intergalactic space the view from intergalactic space .	很大的 , ted已經展開了高解析度的虛擬實境空間 , 將來自地質空間的虛擬實境分析 。
so can we have the lights off , please , so we can see it ?	所以 , 我們能否有燈光 , 請 , 我們能看到它嗎 ?
well , not quite , not quite perfect you see , in intergalactic space intergalactic space is completely dark , pitch dark .	嗯 , 不太完美 , 你看 , 空間中間的空間是完全黑暗的 , 完全漆黑 。
it's so dark that if you were to be looking at the nearest star to you , and that star were to explode as a supernova , and you were to be staring directly at it at the moment when its light reached you , you still wouldn't be able to see even a glimmer .	很明顯的 , 當你在那星球上看著最近的星星時 , 你就會看到一個超級新星 , 而那顆星星會被送到你 , 而那顆星星就會被當成超級新星 , 而那顆星星會被送到你 , 而那顆星星是你 , 而那顆星星被打開了 , 直到你 , 你仍然無法看見它的光線 。
that's how big and how dark the universe is .	這就是宇宙的多大和黑暗的宇宙 。
and that's despite the fact that a supernova is so bright , so brilliant an event , that it would kill you stone dead at a range of several light years .	儘管如此 , 光明真是太亮了 , 很明亮 , 非常聰明的事件 , 它會殺死你的石頭在幾光年之內爆炸 。
and yet from intergalactic space , it's so far away you wouldn't even see it .	但從星際空間中 , 遠遠遠離你根本看不到它 。
it's also very cold out there less than three degrees above absolute zero .	它也非常冷 , 不到三度 , 完全沒有三度 。
and it's very empty . the vacuum there is one million times less dense than the highest vacuum that our best technology on earth can currently create . so that's how different a typical place is from this place .	真空是很空的 , 地球上最高的空氣有一百萬倍 , 比我們最高的空氣中最高的空氣 , 真空 , 我們最高的真空可以創造出這個地方 。
and that is how untypical this place is .	這就是不典型的樣子
so can we have the lights back on please ? thank you .	所以 , 我們可以有燈光回來嗎 ? 謝謝 。
now how do we know about an environment that's so far away , and so different , and so alien , from anything we're used to ?	我們如何知道一個環境是如此遙遠、外星人 , 和外星人 , 從我們以前的任何東西都一樣 ?
well , the earth our environment , in the form of us is creating knowledge .	嗯 , 地球的環境 , 我們的形式就是創造知識 。
well , what does that mean ? well , look out even further than we've just been i mean from here , with a telescope and you'll see things that look like stars .	這意味著什麼呢 ? 嗯 , 比我們剛剛說的 , 望遠鏡 , 你可以看到它看起來像星星 。
they're called " quasars . " quasars originally meant quasistellar object .	他們被稱為 「 水龍 」 , 原本的意思是 「 四軸 」 。
which means things that look a bit like stars . but they're not stars .	意思是看起來有點像星星 , 但它們不是星星 。
and we know what they are . billions of years ago , and billions of light years away , the material at the center of a galaxy collapsed towards a supermassive black hole .	我們知道它們是幾十億年前、幾十億年前、幾十億年前 , 星系的物質在銀河系崩潰的物質 , 成為超大質量的黑洞 。
and then intense magnetic fields directed some of the energy of that gravitational collapse . and some of the matter , back out in the form of tremendous jets which illuminated lobes with the brilliance of i think it's a trillion suns .	接著 , 強烈的磁場會引力崩塌的能量 , 還有一些物質 , 重力崩塌的能量 , 以及一些重力崩潰的能量 , 和我認為它是一兆個太陽的能量 。
now , the physics of the human brain could hardly be more unlike the physics of such a jet .	現在 , 人類大腦的物理不像像物理一樣 。
we couldn't survive for an instant in it . language breaks down when trying to describe what it would be like in one of those jets .	我們無法存活下來 。 語言破壞 , 當試圖描述它的存在時 , 語言就破壞了 。
it would be a bit like experiencing a supernova explosion , but at pointblank range and for millions of years at a time .	可能有點像是經歷超新星爆炸 , 但在爆炸時期 , 數百萬年來 。
and yet , that jet happened in precisely such a way that billions of years later , on the other side of the universe , some bit of chemical scum could accurately describe , and model , and predict , and explain , above all there's your reference what was happening there , in reality .	然而 , 在宇宙的另一邊 , 數十億年後 , 在宇宙的另一端 , 有些化學論壇可以準確地描述、模型、預測 , 並且預測 , 解釋一下 , 在宇宙的另一端 , 有些化學論壇可以準確地描述和預測 。
the one physical system , the brain , contains an accurate working model of the other the quasar .	一個物理系統 , 大腦 , 包含了非常精確的模型 , 與其它組合 。
not just a superficial image of it , though it contains that as well , but an explanatory model , embodying the same mathematical relationships and the same causal structure .	不僅僅是一個超級的圖像 , 它也包含了同樣的數學關係和相同的結構 。
now that is knowledge . and if that weren't amazing enough , the faithfulness with which the one structure resembles the other is increasing with time . that is the growth of knowledge .	這就是知識的知識 。 如果這不夠好 , 信仰是有意義的 , 隨著時間的增長 , 這就是知識的基礎 。
so , the laws of physics have this special property .	所以 , 物理學的物理學有特殊的特性 。
that physical objects , as unlike each other as they could possibly be , can nevertheless embody the same mathematical and causal structure and to do it more and more so over time .	那些物理物體 , 不像彼此相同的數學和古老的結構 , 隨時間隨時間地擴張 , 讓它變得更有趣 。
so we are a chemical scum that is different . this chemical scum has universality .	所以 , 我們的化學量子是不同的 。 化學的化量是不同的 。 這化學的化量是不同的 。
its structure contains , with everincreasing precision , the structure of everything . this place , and not other places in the universe , is a hub which contains within itself the structural and causal essence of the whole of the rest of physical reality . and so , far from being insignificant , the fact that the laws of physics allow this , or even mandate that this can happen , is one of the most important things about the physical world .	它的結構和整體實體世界之間的關係 , 不管是哪個地方 , 都沒有其他地方存在 , 物理世界最重要的東西之一 , 就是它的結構 , 和其它的結構 , 和所有其他地方的關係 , 實際上 , 物理世界的結構和結果 。
now how does the solar system and our environment , in the form of us acquire this special relationship with the rest of the universe ?	那麼太陽系和我們的環境 , 我們的形式 , 與我們與宇宙的關係有著相同的關係 ?
well , one thing that's true about stephen hawking's remark i mean , it is true , but it's the wrong emphasis . one thing that's true about it is that it doesn't do it with any special physics . there's no special dispensation , no miracles involved . it does it simply with three things that we have here in abundance .	史蒂芬霍金所說的 , 是真的 , 但它是錯的 。 它是正確的 , 沒有任何特殊的物理 , 沒有任何特殊的物理 , 沒有任何特殊的物理 , 沒有任何特殊的物理 , 沒有任何特殊的物理 , 沒有任何特殊的物理 , 沒有任何特殊的物理 。
one of them is matter , because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing . information processing is computation , computation requires a computer there's no known way of making a computer without matter .	其中一個是重要的 , 因為知識是資訊處理的過程 , 計算 , 計算 , 計算需要一個電腦 , 不需要一個電腦來計算 。
we also need energy to make the computer , and most important , to make the media in effect onto which we record the knowledge that we discover .	我們也需要能量來製造電腦 , 最重要的是 , 為了讓媒體在影響上我們發現的知識 。
and then thirdly , less tangible , but just as essential for the openended creation of knowledge , of explanations , is evidence .	第三 , 更不容易理解 , 解釋是證據 , 是證據 。
now , our environment is inundated with evidence .	我們的環境是有證據的 。
we happen to get round to testing , let's say , newton's law of gravity about 300 years ago .	我們剛剛開始測試 , 說 , 牛頓的重力約300年前 。
but the evidence that we used to do that was falling down on every square meter of the earth for billions of years before that , and will continue to fall on for billions of years afterwards . and the same is true for all the other sciences .	但證據顯示我們過去數十億年來一直在不斷地下降 , 每平方公尺的地球數十億年後 , 仍然會持續下降 , 以至於過去數十億年 , 仍然會持續下降 。
as far as we know , evidence to discover the most fundamental truths of all the sciences is here just for the taking on our planet .	如我們所知 , 證據發現最基本的真理 , 證據證明了所有科學領域的所有科學都只是在地球上 。
our location is saturated with evidence , and also with matter and energy .	我們的地點是充滿證據的 , 同時也很重要和能量 。
out in intergalactic space , those three prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge are at their lowest possible supply .	在星際空間中 , 那些三項最低的可能供應 , 都能提供最低的可能供應 。
as i said , it's empty ; it's cold ; and it's dark out there . or is it ?	如我所說 , 它是空的 , 它是冷的 , 它是空的 , 它是冷的 , 它是空的 , 它是冷淡的 , 它是空的 , 很冷 。
now actually , that's just another parochial misconception .	其實 , 這只是另一個不可思議的誤解 。
because imagine a cube out there in intergalactic space , the same size as our home , the solar system . now that cube is very empty by human standards , but that still means that it contains over a million tons of matter .	想像一下一個立方體在地面空間中 , 和我們的房子一樣大 , 太陽系的大小 , 正是人類標準的標準 , 但這仍然意味著它包含了超過一百萬噸的重要性 。
and a million tons is enough to make , say , a selfcontained space station , on which there's a colony of scientists that are devoted to creating an openended stream of knowledge , and so on .	一百萬噸足夠 , 說 , 身為一個自我保持的空間站 , 在那裡 , 有一群科學家被投入 , 創造出一種開放式的知識 , 等等 。
now , it's way beyond present technology to even gather the hydrogen from intergalactic space and form it into other elements and so on .	現在 , 遠遠超越科技甚至將氫氣從二氧化碳排放到其他元素等等 。
but the thing is , in a comprehensible universe , if something isn't forbidden by the laws of physics , then what could possibly prevent us from doing it , other than knowing how ?	但 , 實際上 , 在一個不可思議的宇宙中 , 如果不被物理定律所限制 , 那麼 , 有可能阻止我們去做的事 , 那麼 , 有可能阻止我們做的事 , 不是嗎 ?
in other words , it's a matter of knowledge , not resources .	換句話說 , 它是知識 , 不是資源 。
and the same well , if we could do that we'd automatically have an energy supply , because the transmutation would be a fusion reactor and evidence ?	同樣的 , 如果我們能自動產生能源供應 , 因為轉變會是核融合反應和證據嗎 ?
well , again , it's dark out there to human senses . but all you've got to do is take a telescope , even one of presentday design , look out and you'll see the same galaxies as we do from here .	嗯 , 再說一次 , 這對人類來說是很明顯的 。 但你要做的是用望遠鏡 , 甚至是日常設計 , 向外望遠 , 看到同樣的銀河系 。
and with a more powerful telescope , you'll be able to see stars , and planets .	用更強大的望遠鏡 , 你就能看見星星和行星 。
in those galaxies , you'll be able to do astrophysics , and learn the laws of physics .	在這些銀河系中 , 你可以天體物理學物理學 。
and locally there you could build particle accelerators , and learn elementary particle physics , and chemistry , and so on .	在那裡 , 你可以建造粒子加速器 , 學習基本粒子物理 , 化學 , 等等 。
probably the hardest science to do would be biology field trips because it would take several hundred million years to get to the nearest lifebearing planet and back .	可能最難的科學是生物學領域的旅行 , 因為它會花上數億年才能到最遠的星球 。
but i have to tell you and sorry , richard but i never did like biology field trips much , and i think we can just about make do with one every few hundred million years .	但是我必須告訴你 , 抱歉 , 理查 , 但我從未做過類似生物學領域的旅程 , 我想我們可以做到每幾億年 。
so in fact , intergalactic space does contain all the prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge . any such cube , anywhere in the universe , could become the same kind of hub that we are , if the knowledge of how to do so were present there .	所以事實上 , 星際空間確實存在於宇宙中的任何一個基礎 , 可以變成相同的狀態 , 如我們所知 , 在宇宙中 , 可以變成相同的狀態 , 如我們所知 , 在宇宙中 , 可以成為我們所謂的 「 知識 」 。
so we're not in a uniquely hospitable place .	所以我們不是一個獨特的可居住的地方 。
if intergalactic space is capable of creating an openended stream of explanations , then so is almost every other environment . so is the earth . so is a polluted earth .	如果交叉空間可以創造出一個開放式的方案 , 那麼幾乎所有其他環境 。 所以 , 地球是地球 。 所以 , 地球是地球 。
and the limiting factor , there and here , is not resources , because they're plentiful , but knowledge , which is scarce .	限制因素 , 和這裡 , 沒有資源 , 因為它們很有趣 , 還沒有資源 , 因為他們很有智慧 , 還沒有資源 。
now this cosmic knowledgebased view may and i think ought to make us feel very special . but it should also make us feel vulnerable , because it means that without the specific knowledge that's needed to survive the ongoing challenges of the universe , we won't survive them .	關於宇宙的知識 , 我認為應該讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為這意味著沒有特殊的知識 , 可以讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為它意味著沒有特殊的知識 , 可以讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為它意味著沒有特殊的知識 , 可以讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為它意味著沒有特殊的知識 , 可以讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為它意味著沒有特殊的知識 , 可以讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為它意味著沒有特殊的知識 , 可以讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為這意味著 ,
all it takes is for a supernova to go off a few light years away , and we'll all be dead !	只剩下幾光年 , 我們都死了 !
martin rees has recently written a book about our vulnerability to all sorts of things , from astrophysics , to scientific experiments gone wrong , and most importantly to terrorism with weapons of mass destruction .	馬丁最近寫了一本書 , 關於我們脆弱的各種東西 , 從天體物理學 , 到科學實驗錯 , 最重要的是恐怖主義用武器大規模毀滅 。
and he thinks that civilization has only a 50 percent chance of surviving this century .	他認為文明只有50%的機會可以存活下來 。
i think he's going to talk about that later in the conference .	我想他在會議會談到這場演講 。
now i don't think that probability is the right category to discuss this issue in .	我不認為那是正確的分類 , 來討論這個議題 。
but i do agree with him about this . we can survive , and we can fail to survive .	但我同意他說的 , 我們可以生存下來 , 我們無法存活下來 。
but it depends not on chance , but on whether we create the relevant knowledge in time .	但它依賴於不是偶爾 , 而是在我們創造出相關的知識 。
the danger is not at all unprecedented . species go extinct all the time .	危險是無所不在的 。 物種滅絕了 。
civilizations end . the overwhelming majority of all species and all civilizations that have ever existed are now history .	文明終止 , 所有物種和所有文明已經存在的歷史 。
and if we want to be the exception to that , then logically our only hope is to make use of the one feature that distinguishes our species , and our civilization , from all the others namely , our special relationship with the laws of physics , our ability to create new explanations , new knowledge to be a hub of existence .	若我們想成為一個存在的特徵 , 我們的特殊關係和物理定律的關係 , 我們就能創造出新的解釋 , 新的解釋 , 新的知識 , 來創造出新的解釋 , 新的知識 。
so let me now apply this to a current controversy , not because i want to advocate any particular solution , but just to illustrate the kind of thing i mean .	現在 , 讓我來介紹一下我的意思 , 不是因為我想要提倡任何特定的解決方案 , 只是為了說明我所說的內容 。
and the controversy is global warming .	而爭議是全球暖化 。
now , i'm a physicist , but i'm not the right kind of physicist . in regard to global warming , i'm just a layman . and the rational thing for a layman to do is to take seriously the prevailing scientific theory . and according to that theory , it's already too late to avoid a disaster .	我是物理學家 , 但是我不是正確的物理學家 , 但我不是物理學家 。 根據這個理論 , 我是個物理學家 。 根據這個理論 , 我是物理學家 , 不是正確的物理學家 , 我只是一個層級的物理學家 。 根據這個理論 , 它已經太遲了 , 無法避免災難 。
because if it's true that our best option at the moment is to prevent co2 emissions with something like the kyoto protocol , with its constraints on economic activity and its enormous cost of hundreds of billions of dollars or whatever it is , then that is already a disaster by any reasonable measure .	因為如果我們最好的選項就是要預防二氧化碳排放 , 像是kyoto協議 , 及其限制在經濟活動上的限制 , 以及它的限制在經濟活動上 , 最好的選項是要預防二氧化碳排放 , 像是kyoto協議 , 及其限制在經濟活動上的限制 , 以及它的限制在經濟活動上 , 最好的選項是要預防二氧化碳排放 。
and the actions that are advocated are not even purported to solve the problem , merely to postpone it by a little . so it's already too late to avoid it , and it probably has been too late to avoid it ever since before anyone realized the danger .	投票者的行動 , 甚至還沒辦法避免它 , 可能已經太遲了 , 無法避免它 , 可能已經太遲了 , 無法避免它 , 可能已經太遲了 , 無法避免它發生了 。 所以它已經太遲了 , 無法避免它發生了 。 所以它已經太遲了 , 無法避免它 , 可能已經太遲了 , 無法避免它 。
it was probably already too late in the 1970s , when the best available scientific theory was telling us that industrial emissions were about to precipitate a new ice age in which billions would die .	在1970年代末期 , 最好的科學理論告訴我們 , 工業排放會使命運的新冰層消失 。
now the lesson of that seems clear to me , and i don't know why it isn't informing public debate .	我看得清楚這一點 , 我不知道為什麼它不是公開辯論 。
it is that we can't always know . when we know of an impending disaster , and how to solve it at a cost less than the cost of the disaster itself , then there's not going to be much argument , really .	這是我們無法承認的事 。 當我們知道一個臨時的災難時 , 會如何解決它的成本 , 比起災難的代價還要低 , 卻不會有爭議 。
but no precautions , and no precautionary principle , can avoid problems that we do not yet foresee .	但沒有預防措施 , 沒有預防措施 , 我們還沒有預防措施 , 沒有預防措施 , 沒有預防措施 。
hence , we need a stance of problemfixing , not just problemavoidance .	因此 , 我們需要一個穩定的問題 , 不只是問題的解決問題 。
and it's true that an ounce of prevention equals a pound of cure , but that's only if we know what to prevent .	結果是 , 預防治療的預防措施 , 只有我們知道要預防什麼 。
if you've been punched on the nose , then the science of medicine does not consist of teaching you how to avoid punches .	如果你一直在鼻子上搜索 , 那麼科學醫學不會教導你如何避免懲罰 。
if medical science stopped seeking cures and concentrated on prevention only , then it would achieve very little of either .	如果醫學科學停止尋求治癒 , 並專注於預防 , 那它就會變得非常少 。
the world is buzzing at the moment with plans to force reductions in gas emissions at all costs .	世界正在忙碌 , 把氣體排放在所有成本上 , 都能減少 。
it ought to be buzzing with plans to reduce the temperature , and with plans to live at the higher temperature and not at all costs , but efficiently and cheaply . and some such plans exist , things like swarms of mirrors in space to deflect the sunlight away , and encouraging aquatic organisms to eat more carbon dioxide .	應該要在氣候上設計 , 用規劃來降低溫度 , 而不是所有成本都很高 , 但效率很高 。 有些規則 , 例如在空氣中 , 把陽光照亮 , 並鼓勵水平的生物 , 來減少溫度 , 並且在高溫度上 , 沒有任何成本 , 但有效率又便宜 。 還有一些規劃 , 像是在空間中的鏡子 , 來降低溫度 , 並鼓勵水平的生物 , 來減少溫度 。
at the moment , these things are fringe research .	此時 , 這些東西都是fring研究 。
they're not central to the human effort to face this problem , or problems in general .	他們不是人類的核心 , 或問題 , 或問題 。
and with problems that we are not aware of yet , the ability to put right not the sheer good luck of avoiding indefinitely is our only hope , not just of solving problems , but of survival .	我們遇到的問題 , 不僅僅是解決問題 , 而是生存的能力 , 不單是解決問題 , 而是生存 。
so take two stone tablets , and carve on them .	所以 , 拿兩隻石頭 , 把石頭放在他們身上 。
on one of them , carve: " problems are soluble . "	其中一題是: 「 問題是很大的 。 」
and on the other one carve: " problems are inevitable . "	另一方面 , 「 問題是無可避免的 。 」
how can a struggling country break out of poverty if it's trapped in a system of bad rules ? economist paul romer unveils a bold idea: " charter cities , " cityscale administrative zones governed by a coalition of nations .	貧窮困境是如何解決貧窮的問題 ? 經濟學家保羅姆•羅姆提出一個主意: 「 城市 , 城市 , 城市規模的管理區 , 是由國內的規則所組成 。
business , culture , economics , global issues , politics	商業、文化、經濟、全球議題 , 政治 。
paul romer's radical idea: charter cities	保羅爾羅馬的主意是:查爾斯的激進想法 。
take a look at this picture .	看看這張照片 。
it poses a very fascinating puzzle for us .	這對我們來說是個非常迷人的謎題 。
these african students are doing their homework under streetlights at the airport in the capital city because they don't have any electricity at home .	這些非洲學生正在做自己的家作業 , 因為他們沒有任何電力在家裡 。
now , i haven't met these particular students , but i've met students like them .	我沒有遇過這些特別的學生 , 但是我遇到了這樣的學生 。
let's just pick one for example , the one in the green shirt .	咱們來挑選一個例子 , 綠色衣服 。
let's give him a name , too: nelson .	我們給他一個名字:nelson 。
i'll bet nelson has a cellphone .	我將tnelson有手機 。
so here is the puzzle .	這是謎題 。
why is it that nelson has access to a cuttingedge technology , like the cellphone , but doesn't have access to a 100yearold technology for generating electric light in the home ?	為什麼 , 尼爾森擁有一百歲的科技 , 可以在家裡製造電燈 ?
now , in a word , the answer is " rules . "	現在 , 答案是 「 規則 」 。
bad rules can prevent the kind of winwin solution that's available when people can bring new technologies in and make them available to someone like nelson .	壞的規則可以避免這種雙贏的解決方案 , 讓人們可以預防這種雙贏的解決方案 , 讓人們可以預防這種雙贏的解決方案 , 讓人們可以預防這種雙贏的解決方案 , 讓人們可以預防這種雙贏的解決方案 。
what kinds of rules ?	什麼規則呢 ?
the electric company in this nation operates under a rule , which says that it has to sell electricity at a very low , subsidized price in fact , a price that is so low it loses money on every unit that it sells .	這個國家的電力公司在一個非常低的價格下降低了價格 , 價格低於價格 , 價格低於價格 , 價格低於每單位的價格 。
so it has neither the resources , nor the incentives , to hook up many other users .	所以 , 不管是資源 , 或獎勵 , 都能提供其他使用者 。
the president wanted to change this rule .	總統想要改變這個規則 。
he's seen that it's possible to have a different set of rules , rules where businesses earn a small profit , so they have an incentive to sign up more customers .	他看過 , 有一些不同的規則 , 規則 , 商業賺得很大 , 所以他們有一套規則 , 讓商業賺到更好的規則 。
that's the kind of rules that the cellphone company that nelson purchases his telephony from operates under .	這種規則是 , 尼爾森購買他的電話公司的規則 , 都在使用手機公司的規則 。
the president has seen how those rules worked well .	總統已經看過這些規則如何運作 。
so he tried to change the rules for pricing on electricity , but ran into a firestorm of protest from businesses and consumers who wanted to preserve the existing subsidized rates .	所以他試著改變規則 , 用電力來維持現存 , 但從企業和消費者中 , 消費者會想要保存現有的代價 。
so he was stuck with rules that prevented him from letting the winwin solution help his country .	所以 , 他被困住了規則 , 讓他無法讓他贏得解決方案來幫助他的國家 。
and nelson is stuck studying under the streetlights .	尼爾森在街道上被困在街道上 。
the real challenge then , is to try to figure out how we can change rules .	真正的挑戰是 , 試著找出我們如何改變規則 。
are there some rules we can develop for changing rules ?	我們有一些規則 , 可以改變規則 ?
i want to argue that there is a general abstract insight that we can make practical , which is that , if we can give more choices to people , and more choices to leaders who , in many countries , are also people .	我想說的是 , 我們有一個普遍的抽象觀點 , 我們可以做出實踐的選擇 , 在許多國家裡 , 許多國家也是人 。
but , it's useful to present the opposition between these two .	但 , 這兩者之間的反對 。
because the kind of choice you might want to give to a leader , a choice like giving the president the choice to raise prices on electricity , takes away a choice that people in the economy want .	因為你可能想要給領袖的選擇 , 比如給領袖 , 選擇要給領袖的選擇 , 比如給領袖 , 選擇要給領袖的選擇 , 比如給領袖 , 選擇要給領袖的選擇 , 比如給領袖 , 選擇要給領袖的選擇 。
they want the choice to be able to continue consuming subsidized electric power .	他們想要選擇能夠繼續消費的電力 。
so if you give just to one side or the other , you'll have tension or friction .	所以 , 如果你只給一邊或摩擦 , 就會有緊張力或摩擦力 。
but if we can find ways to give more choices to both , that will give us a set of rules for changing rules that get us out of traps .	但如果我們能找到方法來改變規則 , 會給我們一套規則 , 來改變規則 , 來改變規則 , 來改變規則 。
now , nelson also has access to the internet .	nelson也能取得網路 。
and he says that if you want to see the damaging effects of rules , the ways that rules can keep people in the dark , look at the pictures from nasa of the earth at night .	他說 , 如果你想看到破壞規則的圖片 , 規則會讓人們在黑暗中看到 , 例如 , 規則可以讓人們在黑暗中觀察到黑暗的照片 , 例如在黑暗的照片 , 來自美國太空總署的影像 。
in particular check out asia .	特別是亞洲 。
if you zoom in here , you can see north korea , in outline here , which is like a black hole compared to its neighbors .	如果你放大放大 , 這裡可以看到北韓 , 像黑洞相比它鄰居的鄰居 。
now , you won't be surprised to learn that the rules in north korea keep people there in the dark .	你不會很驚訝 , 北韓的規則會讓人們在黑暗中看到 。
but it is important to recognize that north korea and south korea started out with identical sets of rules in both the sense of laws and regulations , but also in the deeper senses of understandings , norms , culture , values and beliefs .	但 , 更深層的了解 , 文化、價值觀和信仰 , 都來自於法律和規定的規則 , 同時也更深層的理解 , 文化、價值觀和信仰 。
when they separated , they made choices that led to very divergent paths for their sets of rules .	當他們分離時 , 他們做出選擇 , 做出選擇 , 導致了非常多樣性的道路 。
so we can change we as humans can change the rules that we use to interact with each other , for better , or for worse .	所以 , 我們能改變人類的規則 , 可以改變我們所習慣的規則 , 更好、更好 , 或更糟 。
now let's look at another region , the caribbean .	現在我們來看看另一個區域 , 加勒比海 。
zoom in on haiti , in outline here .	放大海地 , 在海地 , 在這裡 。
haiti is also dark , compared to its neighbor here , the dominican republic , which has about the same number of residents .	海地也黑暗 , 相較於鄰居的鄰居 , 和其他的鄰居有相同的居民 。
both of these countries are dark compared to puerto rico , which has half as many residents as either haiti or the dominican republic .	兩個國家都和黑人相比 , 比如海地或多數州長 , 和華盛拉多州的兩者都差不多 , 有半數的居民是海地或墨西哥 。
what haiti warns us is that rules can be bad because governments are weak .	海地警告 , 我們的規則是壞的 , 因為政府是弱的 。
it's not just that the rules are bad because the government is too strong and oppressive , as in north korea .	不只規則是壞的 , 因為政府太強大、壓迫 , 像是北韓 。
so that if we want to create environments with good rules , we can't just tear down .	所以如果我們想要創造環境有好的規則 , 我們就無法撕掉 。
we've got to find ways to build up , as well .	我們必須找到方法來建立 。
now , china dramatically demonstrates both the potential and the challenges of working with rules .	現在 , 中國大幅展現了潛力和挑戰與規則 。
back in the beginning of the data presented in this chart , china was the world's hightechnology leader .	在這個圖表上 , 中國是世界高科技領袖 。
chinese had pioneered technologies like steel , printing , gunpowder .	中國人有先前的技術 , 像是鋼、印刷、槍枝 。
but the chinese never adopted , at least in that period , effective rules for encouraging the spread of those ideas a profit motive that could have encouraged the spread .	但中國人從未採用過 , 至少在那段期間 , 有效的規則 , 鼓勵傳播這些想法的利潤激動 。
and they soon adopted rules which slowed down innovation and cut china off from the rest of the world .	他們很快的採用規則 , 慢慢創新 , 把中國從世界各地下降 。
so as other countries in the world innovated , in the sense both of developing newer technologies , but also developing newer rules , the chinese were cut off from those advances .	所以 , 在其他國家 , 創新的國家 , 包括開發新的規則 , 中國人從這些進步中發展出新的規則 。
income there stayed stagnant , as it zoomed ahead in the rest of the world .	收入保持穩定 , 讓世界各地的保持穩定 。
this next chart looks at more recent data .	下一張圖表是最近的數據 。
it plots income , average income in china as a percentage of average income in the united states .	中國的平均收入是美國的平均收入 。
in the '50s and '60s you can see that it was hovering at about three percent .	在50年代和60年代 , 你可以看到它大約有3% 。
but then in the late '70s something changed .	但在1970年代末期 , 改變了 。
growth took off in china . the chinese started catching up very quickly with the united states .	中國的中國開始在中國開始很快地帶著美國 。
if you go back to the map at night , you can get a clue to the process that lead to the dramatic change in rules in china .	如果你回到地圖上 , 你就能得到一個線索 , 導致在中國大規模改變的規則 。
the brightest spot in china , which you can see on the edge of the outline here , is hong kong .	中國最亮的點 , 你可以看到在上面的邊緣是香港 。
hong kong was a small bit of china that , for most of the 20th century , operated under a very different set of rules than the rest of mainland china rules that were copied from working market economies of the time , and administered by the british .	香港是個小小的中國 , 在二十世紀中 , 由英國的規則 , 由英國的規則 , 採用了非常不同的規則 。
in the 1950s , hong kong was a place where millions of people could go , from the mainland , to start in jobs like sewing shirts , making toys .	在1950年代 , 香港是個地方有數百萬人可以從土地開始工作像是縫襯衫、製作玩具
but , to get on a process of increasing income , increasing skills led to very rapid growth there .	但 , 為了增加收入 , 增加收入的增加 , 越來越多的技能能快速成長 。
hong kong was also the model which leaders like deng xiaoping could copy , when they decided to move all of the mainland towards the market model .	香港也是個典型的模式 , 當他們決定把整個大陸轉向市場模型時 , 他們決定要移動所有的大陸 。
but deng xiaoping instinctively understood the importance of offering choices to his people .	但 , 直覺地明白了對他人的重要性 。
so instead of forcing everyone in china to shift immediately to the market model , they proceeded by creating some special zones that could do , in a sense , what britain did: make the opportunity to go work with the market rules available to the people who wanted to opt in there .	所以 , 與市場規則 , 沒有任何人在中國轉移到市場規則 , 讓人們可以去工作 , 以某種特殊區塊 , 例如 , 英國的做法是:有機會 , 去市場規則 , 讓所有人都能用市場規則去工作 。
so they created four special economic zones around hong kong: zones where chinese could come and work , and cities grew up very rapidly there ; also zones where foreign firms could come in and make things .	所以 , 他們創造了四個特殊的經濟區塊 , 在那裡 , 中國人可以來到那裡 , 城市成長得很快 , 在那裡 , 城市長大得很快 , 那裡有各個特殊的經濟區塊 , 在那裡 , 中國人可以來和工作 。
one of the zones next to hong kong has a city called shenzhen .	在香港的一個城市 , 叫做nzhen 。
in that city there is a taiwanese firm that made the iphone that many of you have , and they made it with labor from chinese who moved there to shenzhen .	在這個城市裡 , 有一個塔iphone , 有很多人的公司 , 他們製造了iphone , 由中國人搬到漢堡 。
so after the four special zones , there were 14 coastal cites that were open in the same sense , and eventually demonstrated successes in these places that people could opt in to , that they flocked to because of the advantages they offered .	所以 , 在四個特殊區塊之後 , 有十四個特色區塊 , 在那裡 , 人們可以選擇的優勢 , 他們被打開 , 最終證明成功 , 在這些地方 , 人們可以選擇 , 他們被鎖住了 。
demonstrated successes there led to a consensus for a move toward the market model for the entire economy .	展示成功的成功 , 讓整個經濟體系的成功 。
now the chinese example shows us several points .	中國的例子顯示了我們幾點 。
one is: preserve choices for people .	第一:保存選擇給人們 。
two: operate on the right scale .	第二:操作正確的規模 。
if you try to change the rules in a village , you could do that , but a village would be too small to get the kinds of benefits you can get if you have millions of people all working under good rules .	如果你試著改變規則 , 你就能做到 , 但村子的村子太小了 , 你就能做到 , 但村子的數量太小了 , 你能得到好的規則 。
on the other hand , the nation is too big .	另一方面 , 國家太大了 。
if you try to change the rules in the nation , you can't give some people a chance to hold back , see how things turn out , and let others zoom ahead and try the new rules .	如果你試著改變規則 , 你不能給一些人一個機會來回顧 , 看看事情如何轉變 , 讓其他人有機會 , 來看看如何轉變 , 讓其他人有機會來回顧 , 看看事情如何轉變 , 讓其他人有機會來回顧 , 看看事情如何轉變 , 讓其他人有機會回顧 ,
but cities give you this opportunity to create new places , with new rules that people can opt in to .	但城市給你機會創造新的規則 , 人們可以選擇的新規則 。
and they're large enough to get all of the benefits that we can have when millions of us work together under good rules .	而且它們很大 , 能讓所有受益者 , 只要數百萬人一起在好規則上工作 , 才能得到所有利益 。
so the proposal is that we conceive of something called a charter city .	因此提議是 , 我們有所謂的 「 大城市 」 。
we start with a charter that specifies all the rules required to attract the people who we'll need to build the city .	我們從一份特定的規劃開始 , 規則要求吸引我們想要建造城市的人 。
we'll need to attract the investors who will build out the infrastructure the power system , the roads , the port , the airport , the buildings .	我們需要吸引投資者 , 創造出基礎建設的電力系統 , 道路、運動、機場、港口、機場 。
you'll need to attract firms , who will come hire the people who move there first .	你需要吸引公司 , 誰會僱用先前的人 。
and you'll need to attract families , the residents who will come and live there permanently , raise their children , get an education for their children , and get their first job .	你會需要吸引家庭 , 居住在那裡 , 居住永久 , 養育他們的孩子 , 為他們的孩子取得教育 , 並得到他們的第一份工作 。
with that charter , people will move there .	在那裡 , 人們會搬到那裡 。
the city can be built .	城市可以建造 。
and we can scale this model .	我們可以擴展這個模型 。
we can go do it over and over again .	我們可以再一次地做一次 。
to make it work , we need good rules . we've already discussed that .	為了讓它成功 , 我們需要好的規則 , 我們已經討論過了 。
those are captured in the charter .	這些是被捕捉到的 。
we also need the choices for people .	我們也需要選擇給人們 。
that's really built into the model if we allow for the possibility of building cities on uninhabited land .	這實在是建設在不適合居住土地上建造城市的可能性 。
you start from uninhabited territory .	你從未居住的地點開始 。
people can come live under the new charter , but no one is forced to live under it .	人們可以住在新冠軍 , 但沒有人會被迫活下去 。
the final thing we need are choices for leaders .	最後我們需要的是選擇領導者 。
and , to achieve the kind of choices we want for leaders we need to allow for the potential for partnerships between nations: cases where nations work together , in effect , de facto , the way china and britain worked together to build , first a little enclave of the market model , and then scale it throughout china .	為了達成目標 , 我們想要領導者 , 我們想要領導者 , 我們想要領導者 , 我們想要領導者的需求 , 來協助我們想要領導者的需求 , 來協助我們想要領導者的需求 , 來建立 , 首先在中國和英國合作 , 建立一個小小的市場模型 , 通過中國和英國一起合作 。
in a sense , britain , inadvertently , through its actions in hong kong , did more to reduce world poverty than all the aid programs that we've undertaken in the last century .	在某種意義上 , 英國很不可思議 , 為了減少世界貧窮 , 而不是我們在過去一世紀中所採取的行動 。
so if we allow for these kind of partnerships to replicate this again , we can get those kinds of benefits scaled throughout the world .	所以 , 如果我們允許這些合作夥伴再次重複 , 我們就能得到全世界各地的益處 。
in some cases this will involve a delegation of responsibility , a delegation of control from one country to another to take over certain kinds of administrative responsibilities .	在某些情況下 , 該國會有責任的責任 , 從一個國家轉移到另一個國家 , 讓另一種國家有責任 , 從一個國家轉移到另一個國家的責任 。
now , when i say that , some of you are starting to think , " well , is this just bringing back colonialism ? "	現在 , 當我說 , 你們有些人開始想: 「 嗯 , 這只是帶回殖民主義嗎 ? 」
it's not . but it's important to recognize that the kind of emotions that come up when we start to think about these things , can get in the way , can make us pull back , can shut down our ability , and our interest in trying to explore new ideas .	不是 , 但很重要的是 , 當我們開始思考這些東西時 , 可以讓我們拉回來 , 重新思考這些東西 , 能讓我們回頭 , 能讓我們拉回來 , 重新思考這些東西 , 才能讓我們回頭 , 能讓我們拉回來 , 重新思考這些東西 , 能夠讓我們拉回來 , 重新思考這些東西 。
why is this not like colonialism ?	為什麼這不是殖民主義 ?
the thing that was bad about colonialism , and the thing which is residually bad in some of our aid programs , is that it involved elements of coercion and condescension .	殖民主義最壞的原因是 , 關於殖民主義的議題 , 以及我們對殖民主義的最好處 , 就是它涉及了關於殖民主義的好處 。
this model is all about choices , both for leaders and for the people who will live in these new places .	這個模式是關於選擇 , 包括領導者 , 和那些住在這些新地方的人 。
and , choice is the antidote to coercion and condescension .	選擇是要阻擋和認知的爭議 。
so let's talk about how this could play out in practice .	咱們來談談如何在練習中練習 。
let's take a particular leader , raul castro , who is the leader of cuba .	讓我們拿一個特定領袖 , 拉克斯特 , 他是古巴的領導者 。
it must have occurred to castro that he has the chance to do for cuba what deng xiaoping did for china , but he doesn't have a hong kong there on the island in cuba .	他必須有機會去做古巴的古巴 , 但他沒有一個香港在古巴 , 那裡有機會去做古巴 。
he does , though , have a little bit of light down in the south that has a very special status .	然而 , 他在南方有一個非常特殊的位置 。
there is a zone there , around guantanamo bay , where a treaty gives the united states administrative responsibility for a piece of land that's about twice the size of manhattan .	有一塊土地是曼哈頓的一塊土地 , 一塊土地大約是曼哈頓的兩倍大 。
castro goes to the prime minister of canada and says , " look , the yankees have a terrible pr problem .	castro去了加拿大的總理 , 說: 「 看 , 黃金是個可怕的問題 。
they want to get out .	他們想出去 。
why don't you , canada , take over ?	為什麼你不加拿大 , 加拿大 ?
build run a special administrative zone .	建立一個特別的政府區 。
allow a new city to be built up there .	讓一個新的城市被建造出來 。
allow many people to come in .	讓許多人來到這裡 。
let us have a hong kong nearby .	咱們來一個香港 。
some of my citizens will move into that city as well .	一些我的市民也會搬進城市 。
others will hold back . but this will be the gateway that will connect the modern economy and the modern world to my country . "	其他人還會繼續 , 但這將會將現代經濟和現代化的經濟和現代化的經濟和現代化的經濟和現代化的連結 。 」
now , where else might this model be tried ?	現在 , 這種模型在哪裡嘗試呢 ?
well , africa . i've talked with leaders in africa .	嗯 , 非洲 , 我和非洲人談過 。
many of them totally get the notion of a special zone that people can opt into as a rule .	其中許多人都可以選擇成為一個規則 。
it's a rule for changing rules .	規則是改變規則的規則
it's a way to create new rules , and let people optin without coercion , and the opposition that coercion can force .	這是一種創造新的規則的方式 , 讓人們不用反對 , 反而反而對抗氣候變遷 。
they also totally get the idea that in some instances they can make more credible promises to longterm investors the kind of investors who will come build the port , build the roads , in a new city they can make more credible promises if they do it along with a partner nation .	他們也能更清楚的承諾 , 如果他們能做出更可信的承諾 , 在一個新的城市裡 , 他們能做出更可信的承諾 , 只要他們能做出更可信的承諾 , 在一個新的城市中 , 他們就能做出更可信的承諾 , 在一個新的城市裡 , 他們可以做出更可信的承諾 。
perhaps even in some arrangement that's a little bit like an escrow account , where you put land in the escrow account and the partner nation takes responsibility for it .	也許甚至有些排列有點像是抽菸帳號 , 你把土地放在帳戶裡 , 和夥伴國家負責 。
there is also lots of land in africa where new cities could be built .	非洲還有許多土地 , 可以被建造出來 。
this is a picture i took when i was flying along the coast .	這是一張我在海岸拍攝的照片 。
there are immense stretches of land like this land where hundreds of millions of people could live .	土地上有巨大的土地 , 像這樣的土地 , 數十萬人可以居住 。
now , if we generalize this and think about not just one or two charter cites , but dozens cities that will help create places for the many hundreds of millions , perhaps billions of people who will move to cities in the coming century is there enough land for them ?	現在 , 如果我們把這個想法轉化為數十億個城市 , 甚至數十億個城市 , 會在上世紀有足夠的土地 , 讓它們有足夠的土地嗎 ?
well , throughout the world , if we look at the lights at night , the one thing that's misleading is that , visually , it looks like most of the world is already built out .	在地球上 , 如果我們看著燈光在夜晚 , 它看起來就像世界上大部分都被建造出來了 。
so let me show you why that's wrong .	所以 , 讓我向你們說明為什麼那是錯的 。
take this representation of all of the land .	把這代表所有土地的代表 。
turn it into a square that stands for all the arable land on earth .	將它轉變成一個平方形 , 代表地球上所有可靠的土地 。
and let these dots represent the land that's already taken up by the cities that three billion people now live in .	這些點代表土地的土地 , 已經超過三十億人口居住的土地 。
if you move the dots down to the bottom of the rectangle you can see that the cities for the existing three billion urban residents take up only three percent of the arable land on earth .	如果你把底部放到底部 , 就能看到這座城市有三十億個城市居民 , 只佔地球上百分之三十億的城市 。
so if we wanted to build cities for another billion people , they would be dots like this .	所以如果我們想要建造城市數十億人 , 他們就會像這樣 。
we'd go from three percent of the arable land , to four percent .	我們會從3%的土地到4% , 到4% 。
we'd dramatically reduce the human footprint on earth by building more cities that people can move to .	我們大幅地降低人類足跡在地球上建造更多城市 , 讓人們可以移動 。
and if these are cities governed by good rules , they can be cities where people are safe from crime , safe from disease and bad sanitation , where people have a chance to get a job .	如果這些城市是由好規則所控制 , 人們有機會得到工作機會 , 擁有機會去工作 。
they can get basic utilities like electricity .	他們可以用基本的電力來運作 。
their kids can get an education .	他們的孩子可以得到教育 。
so what will it take to get started building the first charter cities , scaling this so we build many more ?	所以 , 要開始建造第一座城市 , 擴大規模 , 這樣我們就能建造出更多的城市呢 ?
it would help to have a manual .	它會幫助一個人性 。
what university professors could do is write some details that might go into this manual .	大學教授可以做些細節來寫一些細節 。
you wouldn't want to let us run the cities , go out and design them .	你不想讓我們逃離城市 , 去設計它們 。
you wouldn't let academics out in the wild .	你不會讓學術在野生中消失 。
but , you could set us to work thinking about questions like , suppose it isn't just canada that does the deal with raul castro .	但 , 你能讓我們思考這個問題 , 假設它不是加拿大的加拿大 , 來處理種族大屠殺 。
perhaps brazil comes in as a participant , and spain as well . and perhaps cuba wants to be one of the partners in a fourway joint venture .	或許巴西是一名參與者 , 或許古巴西也想成為一個夥伴 , 四個共通點都能參與其中 。
how would we write the treaty to do that ?	我們要如何作出這樣的治療 ?
there is less precedent for that , but that could easily be worked out .	沒那麼簡單的 , 但可以輕易地做出來 。
how would we finance this ?	我們要如何定義這一點 ?
turns out singapore and hong kong are cities that made huge gains on the value of the land that they owned when they got started .	新加坡和香港是城市 , 製造出大量的價值 , 讓人們開始時 , 都在他們自己所擁有的土地上 。
you could use the gains on the value of the land to pay for things like the police , the courts , but the school system and the health care system too , which make this a more attractive place to live , makes this a place where people have higher incomes which , incidentally , makes the land more valuable .	你可以用這塊土地去買東西 , 像是警察、法庭、學校系統 , 以及健康照護系統 , 讓土地更有吸引力 , 讓土地更有吸引力 , 讓土地更有吸引力 。
so the incentives for the people helping to construct this zone and build it , and set up the basic rules , go very much in the right direction .	所以 , 鼓勵人們幫助建構這個區塊並建立起基礎規則 , 以正確的方向為基礎規則 。
so there are many other details like this .	所以還有很多其他細節
how could we have buildings that are low cost and affordable for people who work in a first job , assembling something like an iphone , but make those buildings energy efficient , and make sure that they are safe , so they don't fall down in an earthquake or a hurricane .	我們要如何建造出低成本的成本 , 讓這些建築能有效率的人 , 確保他們安全 , 所以他們不會落在地震或颶風中 。
many technical details to be worked out , but those of us who are already starting to pursue these things can already tell that there is no roadblock , there's no impediment , other than a failure of imagination , that will keep us from delivering on a truly global winwin solution .	許多技術的細節都能做到 , 但那些已經開始追蹤這些東西的人 , 已經開始追求這些事情已經開始追求這些東西 , 可能已經開始追求這些事情 , 可能已經開始追求這些東西 , 可能已經開始追求這些東西 , 可能已經開始追蹤這些東西 , 可能已經開始追蹤這些東西 , 可能已經開始追蹤這些事情 , 沒有阻礙 , 沒有阻礙 , 沒有阻礙 , 沒有任何阻礙 。
let me conclude with this picture .	讓我結論這張照片 。
the reason we can be so well off , even though there is so many people on earth , is because of the power of ideas .	儘管如此 , 地球上有很多人 , 都是因為我們有這麼多人的力量 。
we can share ideas with other people , and when they discover them , they share with us .	我們可以和其他人分享想法 , 當他們發現它們時 , 他們會和我們分享 。
it's not like scarce objects , where sharing means we each get less .	這不像稀有物品 , 分享的意思是 , 每當我們都少一點點 。
when we share ideas we all get more .	當我們分享想法時 , 我們都能得到更多 。
when we think about ideas in that way , we usually think about technologies .	當我們思考這些想法時 , 我們通常會想到科技 。
but there is another class of ideas: the rules that govern how we interact with each other ; rules like , let's have a tax system that supports a research university that gives away certain kinds of knowledge for free .	但還有另一種想法:規則 , 例如 , 我們的規則是如何互動彼此的規則 , 例如 , 我們有一系列的規則 , 來提供一些知識免費的規則 。
let's have a system where we have ownership of land that is registered in a government office , that people can pledge as collateral .	咱們來一個系統 , 在政府辦公室裡 , 有一套系統 , 可以把土地放在政府辦公室裡 , 讓人們可以被排放到政府辦公室裡 。
if we can keep innovating on our space of rules , and particularly innovate in the sense of coming up with rules for changing rules , so we don't get stuck with bad rules , then we can keep moving progress forward and truly make the world a better place , so that people like nelson and his friends don't have to study any longer under the streetlights . thank you .	如果我們能繼續進步 , 讓世界變得更好 , 所以 , 像尼爾森和他的朋友不需要在街燈上跑步 , 就能繼續進步 , 讓世界變得更好 。 謝謝 。
genomics pioneer craig venter takes a break from his epic roundtheworld expedition to talk about the millions of genes his team has discovered so far in its quest to map the ocean’s biodiversity .	基因學家先生多樣化的基因組成了他的團隊發現了很遠的距離 , 探討了數百萬個基因組成 , 他的研究團隊發現了很遠的速度 , 來談談數百萬個基因組成的生物多樣性 。
dna , biosphere , biotech , entrepreneur , genetics , invention , oceans , science , technology	dna , 生物科技 , 生物科技 , 生物學 , 生物科技 , 生物學 , 生物學 , 生物科技 , 生物科技 。
craig venter on dna and the sea	dna和海裡的頭髮 。
at the break , i was asked by several people about my comments about the aging debate .	一開始 , 我被問到幾個人關於辯論的辯論 。
and this will be my only comment on it .	這是我唯一的評論 。
and that is , i understand that optimists greatly outlive pessimists .	那就是 , 我知道樂觀主義者很悲觀 。
what i'm going to tell you about in my 18 minutes is how we're about to switch from reading the genetic code to the first stages of beginning to write the code ourselves .	在我18分鐘內 , 我們要如何從讀基因編碼到第一階段 , 開始寫程式碼 。
it's only 10 years ago this month when we published the first sequence of a freeliving organism , that of haemophilus influenzae .	僅僅十年前 , 我們發表了一篇文章 , 發表了第一個序列 , 叫做 「 流感血液 」 。
that took a genome project from 13 years down to four months .	從13年開始 , 花了13年的時間 , 才完成了4個月 。
we can now do that same genome project in the order of two to eight hours .	我們現在可以做同樣的基因組計畫 , 花兩到八個小時 。
so in the last decade , a large number of genomes have been added: most human pathogens , a couple of plants , several insects and several mammals , including the human genome .	在過去十年 , 大量的基因組成了:人類的基因組 , 包括人類的基因組 , 包括人類的基因組 。
genomics at this stage of the thinking from a little over 10 years ago was , by the end of this year , we might have between three and five genomes sequenced ; it's on the order of several hundred .	基因組定序的前幾百年 , 我們可能有三到五個基因組組成序列 , 大約10年前 , 我們可能有三到五個基因組組成 。
we just got a grant from the gordon and betty moore foundation to sequence 130 genomes this year , as a side project from environmental organisms .	我們剛剛從gordon和betmordon和betmardon和betridon和貝蒂莫基金會找到了130個基因組 , 由環保生物體系組成 。
so the rate of reading the genetic code has changed .	閱讀基因編碼的速度已經改變了 。
but as we look , what's out there , we've barely scratched the surface on what is available on this planet .	但當我們看 , 究竟到底是什麼 , 我們幾乎沒辦法把地球表面的表面拉出來 。
most people don't realize it , because they're invisible , but microbes make up about a half of the earth's biomass , whereas all animals only make up about one onethousandth of all the biomass .	大部分的人都不知道 , 因為它們是無形的 , 但微生物只佔據地球生物數量的一半 , 所有動物都只佔據地球生物數量的一半 。
and maybe it's something that people in oxford don't do very often , but if you ever make it to the sea , and you swallow a mouthful of seawater , keep in mind that each milliliter has about a million bacteria and on the order of 10 million viruses .	也許是牛津人並不常常做的事 , 但如果你把海水帶到海裡 , 你就會吞下海水 , 記住每一百萬個細菌 , 每一千萬隻病毒就有一百萬隻細菌 。
less than 5 , 000 microbial species have been characterized as of two years ago , and so we decided to do something about it .	不到5000種微生物物種被排列在兩年前 , 所以我們決定要做點什麼 。
and we started the sorcerer ii expedition , where we were , as with great oceanographic expeditions , trying to sample the ocean every 200 miles .	我們開始了第二次的探險計畫 , 嘗試樣本海洋的海景 , 每200英里以外的樣本 , 拍攝海洋景象 。
we started in bermuda for our test project , then moved up to halifax , working down the u . s . east coast , the caribbean sea , the panama canal , through to the galapagos , then across the pacific , and we're in the process now of working our way across the indian ocean .	我們開始在巴拿馬的加勒比海海岸 , 加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海、加勒比海等等 。
it's very tough duty ; we're doing this on a sailing vessel , in part to help excite young people about going into science .	這是非常艱辛的 , 我們在一艘船上做這件旅行 , 讓年輕人了解科學 。
the experiments are incredibly simple .	實驗非常簡單 。
we just take seawater and we filter it , and we collect different size organisms on different filters , and then take their dna back to our lab in rockville , where we can sequence a hundred million letters of the genetic code every 24 hours .	我們採取海水 , 然後把它們的dna帶回我們的實驗室 , 在岩維爾 , 我們收集不同的濾水 , 然後把它們的dna帶回我們的實驗室 , 在岩維爾 , 我們收集不同的濾水 , 然後把它們的dna帶回實驗室在岩維爾 , 我們每24小時就可以排列出一億個字母 。
and with doing this , we've made some amazing discoveries .	這麼做 , 我們做了一些驚人的發現 。
for example , it was thought that the visual pigments that are in our eyes there was only one or two organisms in the environment that had these same pigments .	舉例來說 , 認為我們眼睛中的視覺色素 , 只有一個或兩個有機體在環境中 , 都有相同的顏色 。
it turns out , almost every species in the upper parts of the ocean in warm parts of the world have these same photoreceptors , and use sunlight as the source of their energy and communication .	結果發現 , 幾乎所有物種都在海洋的溫暖區域中 , 用陽光來源 , 利用太陽光來源於它們的能量和溝通 。
from one site , from one barrel of seawater , we discovered 1 . 3 million new genes and as many as 50 , 000 new species .	從一個地方 , 我們發現了1.3萬個新的基因 , 還有許多五萬個新物種 。
we've extended this to the air now with a grant from the sloan foundation .	我們已經把這張照片從sloan基金會的椅子上賣出來了 。
we're measuring how many viruses and bacteria all of us are breathing in and out every day , particularly on airplanes or closed auditoriums .	我們測量了多少病毒和細菌所有我們每天都在呼吸 , 特別是在飛機或閉上 。
we filter through some simple apparatuses ; we collect on the order of a billion microbes from just a day filtering on top of a building in new york city .	透過一些簡單的應用程式 , 我們收集了數十億微生物 , 僅僅僅僅在紐約市的一棟大樓上 , 收集數十億微生物 。
and we're in the process of sequencing all that at the present time .	而我們現在正處於序列的過程中 。
just on the data collection side , just where we are through the galapagos , we're finding that almost every 200 miles , we see tremendous diversity in the samples in the ocean .	在資料集中 , 在資料集中 , 我們發現 , 幾乎每200英里 , 我們在海洋中發現幾乎每兩百英里 , 都會看到巨大的多樣性 。
some of these make logical sense , in terms of different temperature gradients .	在不同的溫度上 , 不同的溫度會降低 。
so this is a satellite photograph based on temperatures red being warm , blue being cold and we found there's a tremendous difference between the warm water samples and the cold water samples , in terms of abundant species .	這是一張衛星照片 , 由溫度降低溫度 , 溫度是紅色的 , 溫度是紅色的 , 我們發現有很大的差異在溫度的紅色溫度 , 溫度是紅色的 , 溫度是低溫的 。
the other thing that surprised us quite a bit is these photoreceptors detect different wavelengths of light , and we can predict that based on their amino acid sequence .	另外一件令人驚訝的是這些光的光波長度可以預測 , 根據它們的氨基酸序列來預測基礎 。
and these vary tremendously from region to region .	從區域到區域 , 都很有偏見 。
maybe not surprisingly , in the deep ocean , where it's mostly blue , the photoreceptors tend to see blue light .	或許不意外 , 在深海裡 , 最藍色的光源是藍色的 , 光是藍色的 。
when there's a lot of chlorophyll around , they see a lot of green light .	那裡有許多綠光 , 就會看到很多綠色的光 。
but they vary even more , possibly moving towards infrared and ultraviolet in the extremes .	但它們更有可能在極端中移動到紅外線和紫外線 。
just to try and get an assessment of what our gene repertoire was , we assembled all the data including all of ours thus far from the expedition , which represents more than half of all the gene data on the planet and it totaled around 29 million genes .	為了嘗試 , 了解我們基因的基因資料 , 我們組合所有資料 , 包括我們全部的基因資料 , 將所有的資料包含在地球上 , 超過一半的基因資料包含了全部的基因資料 , 包含了我們全部的基因資料 , 將所有資料包含在地球上 , 超過一半的基因資料 。
and we tried to put these into gene families to see what these discoveries are: are we just discovering new members of known families , or are we discovering new families ?	我們試著把這些發現新的家庭 , 看看這些發現:我們發現了新的家庭 , 還是我們發現了新的家庭 ?
and it turns out we have about 50 , 000 major gene families , but every new sample we take in the environment adds in a linear fashion to these new families .	結果發現 , 我們有大約五萬個主要的基因家庭 , 但每種新樣本 , 我們都在對這些新家庭做些新樣本 。
so we're at the earliest stages of discovery about basic genes , components and life on this planet .	因此 , 我們在這個星球上最早的階段發現了基本的基因、組成和生命 。
when we look at the socalled evolutionary tree , we're up on the upper righthand corner with the animals .	當我們觀察所謂的演化樹 , 我們就在右上角和動物 。
of those roughly 29 million genes , we only have around 24 , 000 in our genome .	大約290萬個基因組中 , 我們只有大約2萬6千個基因 。
and if you take all animals together , we probably share less than 30 , 000 and probably maybe a dozen or more thousand different gene families .	如果你把所有的動物聚集在一起 , 我們可能會分享不到三萬個不同的基因家庭 。
i view that these genes are now not only the design components of evolution .	我認為這些基因不僅是演化的設計演化 。
and we think in a genecentric view maybe going back to richard dawkins' ideas than in a genomecentric view , which are different constructs of these gene components .	我們認為 , 在基因組合中 , 基因組合的不同組合 , 會導致這些基因組成的不同結構 。
synthetic dna , the ability to synthesize dna , has changed at sort of the same pace that dna sequencing has over the last decade or two , and is getting very rapid and very cheap .	合成dna組成dna序列的能力在過去十年或兩年間 , 已經改變了 , 相同的dna序列在過去十年或兩年間 , 已經改變了 。
our first thought about synthetic genomics came when we sequenced the second genome back in 1995 , and that from mycoplasma genitalium .	我們首先想到合成基因組 , 在1995年 , 基因組合成基因組合成基因組 。
and we have really nice tshirts that say , you know , " i heart my genitalium . "	我們有很棒的t恤 , 說: 「 我心我的生殖器 。 」
this is actually just a microorganism .	這其實只是微生物 。
but it has roughly 500 genes .	但它大約有500個基因 。
haemophilus had 1 , 800 genes .	hemophilus有一千八百個基因 。
and we simply asked the question , if one species needs 800 , another 500 , is there a smaller set of genes that might comprise a minimal operating system ?	我們只問一個問題 , 如果一個物種需要800 , 500 , 另一個500 , 一個比較小的基因會產生最小的組合嗎 ?
so we started doing transposon mutagenesis .	所以 , 我們開始做轉變性突破 。
transposons are just small pieces of dna that randomly insert in the genetic code .	翻譯只是小小的dna , 隨機在基因編碼中的dna 。
and if they insert in the middle of the gene , they disrupt its function .	如果在基因的中間 , 它們會破壞它的功能 。
so we made a map of all the genes that could take transposon insertions and we called those " nonessential genes . "	所以我們做了一張地圖 , 所有基因都可以採取轉移 , 我們稱之為 「 沒有基因 」 。
but it turns out the environment is very critical for this , and you can only define an essential or nonessential gene based on exactly what's in the environment .	但事實證明 , 環境是非常關鍵的 , 而你只能定義一個基本或不必要的基因基礎 , 只能定義一個基本或不必要的基因 。
we also tried to take a more directly intellectual approach with the genomes of 13 related organisms , and we tried to compare all of those , to see what they had in common .	我們也試著用更直接的智慧方法 , 和13個相關器官的基因組進行比較 , 我們試著用更直接的智慧方法 , 來找出他們共有的狀況 。
and we got these overlapping circles . and we found only 173 genes common to all 13 organisms .	而我們發現只有173個基因 , 只有173個基因 , 只有173個基因 , 都是13個有機體 。
the pool expanded a little bit if we ignored one intracellular parasite ; it expanded even more when we looked at core sets of genes of around 310 or so .	一旦我們忽略細胞寄生蟲 , 它就擴張了 , 如果我們忽略了一顆細胞寄生蟲 , 它擴張了大約310個基因的位置 。
so we think that we can expand or contract genomes , depending on your point of view here , to maybe 300 to 400 genes from the minimal of 500 .	所以我們認為我們可以擴張或收縮基因組 , 根據你的觀點來看 , 可能300到400個基因組 , 依據你的觀點 , 大約300到400個基因組 。
the only way to prove these ideas was to construct an artificial chromosome with those genes in them , and we had to do this in a cassettebased fashion .	要證明這些想法是要建構一個人造染色體 , 並且我們必須用這種方式來建立一個人造染色體 。
we found that synthesizing accurate dna in large pieces was extremely difficult .	我們發現合成精確的dna是非常困難的 。
ham smith and clyde hutchison , my colleagues on this , developed an exciting new method that allowed us to synthesize a 5 , 000base pair virus in only a twoweek period that was 100 percent accurate , in terms of its sequence and its biology .	哈姆•史密斯、我同事們 , 開發了一種令人振奮的新方法 , 讓我們能合成5 , 000個鹼基對 , 只有兩週期內 , 只有兩週期內 , 只有一個兩週期 , 它的序列和生物學 。
it was a quite exciting experiment when we just took the synthetic piece of dna , injected it in the bacteria and all of a sudden , that dna started driving the production of the virus particles that turned around and then killed the bacteria .	這是一個非常令人振奮的實驗 , 我們採用了病毒粒子的基因組成dna , 然後殺死細菌 , 然後殺死細菌 。
this was not the first synthetic virus a polio virus had been made a year before but it was only one tenthousandth as active and it took three years to do .	這不是第一批合成病毒的病毒 , 早已被做成病毒 , 但只有十分之一 , 才有三年的時間 。
this is a cartoon of the structure of phi x 174 .	這是phix174的漫畫 。
this is a case where the software now builds its own hardware , and that's the notions that we have with biology .	這種軟體現在正在製造它自己的硬體 , 而這也是我們和生物學的概念 。
people immediately jump to concerns about biological warfare , and i had recent testimony before a senate committee , and a special committee the u . s . government has set up to review this area .	人們立刻開始評估這個區域 , 我最近在參議院委員會委員會議員 , 和委員會議員 , 特別委員會委員會 , 委員會在參議院委員會委員會議員 。
and i think it's important to keep reality in mind , versus what happens with people's imaginations .	我認為 , 要讓現實變得更重要 , 要讓現實發生 , 和人們的想像力 。
basically , any virus that's been sequenced today that genome can be made .	基本上 , 任何病毒都是由基因組組成的 。
and people immediately freak out about things about ebola or smallpox , but the dna from this organism is not infective .	人們馬上就會想到伊波拉或小東西 , 但dna從這個器官沒有感染 。
so even if somebody made the smallpox genome , that dna itself would not cause infections .	所以即使有人製造了小型生物基因組 , dna本身不會造成感染 。
the real concern that security departments have is designer viruses .	真正的關心安全部門是設計師病毒 。
and there's only two countries , the u . s . and the former soviet union , that had major efforts on trying to create biological warfare agents .	只有兩個國家 , 美國和前蘇聯盟 , 都在嘗試創造生物戰法 。
if that research is truly discontinued , there should be very little activity on the knowhow to make designer viruses in the future .	如果那研究真的被關閉 , 不該有很小的活動 , 就能讓設計師病毒在未來 。
i think singlecell organisms are possible within two years .	我認為單細胞生物在兩年內就可能存在 。
and possibly eukaryotic cells , those that we have , are possible within a decade .	即便是可能性細胞 , 在十年內 , 我們就有可能存在 。
so we're now making several dozen different constructs , because we can vary the cassettes and the genes that go into this artificial chromosome .	所以我們現在已經製造了幾十種不同的建構 , 因為我們可以把卡塞特和基因放進這個人造染色體中 。
the key is , how do you put all of the others ?	關鍵是 , 你要如何把所有其他人都放進去 ?
we start with these fragments , and then we have a homologous recombination system that reassembles those into a chromosome .	我們從這些碎片開始 , 然後我們有一組合理的組合系統 , 將這些碎片放到染色體中 。
this is derived from an organism , deinococcus radiodurans , that can take three million rads of radiation and not be killed .	這是來自生物體內的輻射線 , 可以將三百萬種輻射輻射 , 沒有被殺害 。
it reassembles its genome after this radiation burst in about 12 to 24 hours , after its chromosomes are literally blown apart .	它的基因組合成了它的染色體 , 在它的染色體中 , 大約12至24小時 , 染色體已經被爆炸了 。
this organism is ubiquitous on the planet , and exists perhaps now in outer space due to all our travel there .	這種生物在地球上很普遍 , 可能在外太空中 , 存在於我們的旅行中 。
this is a glass beaker after about half a million rads of radiation .	在大約一半一百萬輻射的輻射中 , 一個玻璃碎片 。
the glass started to burn and crack , while the microbes sitting in the bottom just got happier and happier .	玻璃開始燃燒和破裂 , 當微生物坐在底部時 , 會變得更快樂、更快樂 。
here's an actual picture of what happens: the top of this shows the genome after 1 . 7 million rads of radiation .	這裡有一個實際的圖片:這張圖顯示了基因組 , 一百七十萬種罕見的輻射 。
the chromosome is literally blown apart .	染色體是完全散散的 。
and here's that same dna automatically reassembled 24 hours later .	這是同一個dna自動組裝在24小時後 。
it's truly stunning that these organisms can do that , and we probably have thousands , if not tens of thousands , of different species on this planet that are capable of doing that .	真正令人驚訝的是這些生物可以做到這一點 , 我們可能有千萬種不同的物種 , 可能有數以千計的物種 , 可能沒有成千上萬種不同的物種 。
after these genomes are synthesized , the first step is just transplanting them into a cell without a genome .	在這些基因組合成之後 , 第一步就是把它們轉移到細胞沒有基因組合成的細胞 。
so we think synthetic cells are going to have tremendous potential , not only for understanding the basis of biology but for hopefully environmental and society issues .	所以我們認為合成細胞將會有巨大的潛力 , 不僅僅能了解生物學的基礎 , 還能帶來巨大的潛力 , 不只是為了了解生物學的基礎 , 還能帶來巨大的潛力 。
for example , from the third organism we sequenced , methanococcus jannaschii it lives in boiling water temperatures ; its energy source is hydrogen and all its carbon comes from co2 it captures back from the environment .	舉例來說 , 來自於我們所序列的二氧化碳 , 它的能量來源是氫氣 , 它的能量來源是氫 , 它的能量源自於二氧化碳 。
so we know lots of different pathways , thousands of different organisms now that live off of co2 , and can capture that back .	所以 , 我們知道很多不同的路徑 , 數千種不同的生物 , 可以捕捉回來的 。
so instead of using carbon from oil for synthetic processes , we have the chance of using carbon and capturing it back from the atmosphere , converting that into biopolymers or other products .	所以 , 用碳從大氣中抽取出來 , 用碳來從大氣中吸收 , 將它從大氣中轉換成生物聚合物 , 或其他產品 。
we have one organism that lives off of carbon monoxide , and we use as a reducing power to split water to produce hydrogen and oxygen .	我們有一種有機體存在於碳氫和氧氣中 , 而我們用的是減少能量來製造氫和氧 。
also , there's numerous pathways that can be engineered metabolizing methane .	此外 , 也有許多道路可以用來製造甲烷 。
and dupont has a major program with statoil in norway to capture and convert the methane from the gas fields there into useful products .	杜邦有一項主要的計劃 , 用來捕捉並將甲烷從氣體中 , 變成有用的產品 。
within a short while , i think there's going to be a new field called " combinatorial genomics , " because with these new synthesis capabilities , these vast gene array repertoires and the homologous recombination , we think we can design a robot to make maybe a million different chromosomes a day .	在短期內 , 我認為 , 我們認為我們可以設計一個機器人 , 來創造出一百萬個不同的染色體基因組合 , 我們認為我們可以設計一個機器人 , 來創造一百萬個不同的染色體 。
and therefore , as with all biology , you get selection through screening , whether you're screening for hydrogen production , or chemical production , or just viability .	因此 , 如同所有生物學 , 你可以選擇通過篩選 , 不論你是否被篩選出來 , 包括氫化物 , 或化學產品 , 或任何生物學 。
to understand the role of these genes is going to be well within reach .	要了解這些基因的角色 , 就會變得更好 。
we're trying to modify photosynthesis to produce hydrogen directly from sunlight .	我們正在嘗試修改光合作用 , 來製造氫氣直接從陽光升起 。
photosynthesis is modulated by oxygen , and we have an oxygeninsensitive hydrogenase that we think will totally change this process .	光合作用氧氣 , 我們有氧氣濃度的氫氣 , 我們認為它會完全改變這個過程 。
we're also combining cellulases , the enzymes that break down complex sugars into simple sugars and fermentation in the same cell for producing ethanol .	我們也結合了細胞製造乙醇的酵素 , 製造乙醇的酵素 , 將複雜糖分解成簡單糖和酵素 。
pharmaceutical production is already under way in major laboratories using microbes .	製藥生產已經在大型實驗室使用微生物 。
the chemistry from compounds in the environment is orders of magnitude more complex than our best chemists can produce .	環境中的化學成分比我們最好的化學家製造出的化學還要複雜 。
i think future engineered species could be the source of food , hopefully a source of energy , environmental remediation and perhaps replacing the petrochemical industry .	我認為未來的工程物種可能是食物的源源 , 希望是食物的源源 , 希望能是食物的源源 , 希望能是食物的源源 , 希望能是食物的源源 , 希望能成為食物的源頭 , 希望能成為食物的源頭 , 希望能成為食物的源源 。
let me just close with ethical and policy studies .	讓我用道德和政策研究做結尾 。
we delayed the start of our experiments in 1999 until we completed a yearandahalf bioethical review as to whether we should try and make an artificial species .	我們從1999年開始進行實驗 , 直到我們完成一個人工物種 。
every major religion participated in this .	每個主要宗教都參與這個 。
it was actually a very strange study , because the various religious leaders were using their scriptures as law books , and they couldn't find anything in them prohibiting making life , so it must be ok . the only ultimate concerns were biological warfare aspects of this , but gave us the go ahead to start these experiments for the reasons we were doing them .	這其實是個很奇怪的研究 , 因為這些宗教領袖用他們的文字寫作法律書 , 沒有任何東西可以做這些實驗 , 因爲我們在做這些實驗時 , 才會發現他們在做的事 。
right now the sloan foundation has just funded a multiinstitutional study on this , to work out what the risk and benefits to society are , and the rules that scientific teams such as my own should be using in this area , and we're trying to set good examples as we go forward .	現在 , sloan基金會已經資助了一系列的規則 , 科學團隊的規則 , 像我自己應該在這個區域進行的 , 我們試著為我們建立好的例子 , 來做好的例子 。
these are complex issues .	這些都是複雜的問題 。
except for the threat of bioterrorism , they're very simple issues in terms of , can we design things to produce clean energy , perhaps revolutionizing what developing countries can do and provide through various simple processes .	除了對恐怖生物恐怖主義的威脅 , 它們很簡單的議題 , 我們能設計些東西來製造乾淨能源 , 也許革命化開發中國家能提供各種簡單的處理方式 。
psychologist philip zimbardo says happiness and success are rooted in a trait most of us disregard: the way we orient toward the past , present and future . he suggests we calibrate our outlook on time as a first step to improving our lives .	心理學家philipzimbardo說幸福和未來 , 他建議我們將我們的直覺轉換為第一步 , 來改善我們的人生 。
brain , business , happiness , mind , psychology , science	大腦 , 企業 , 快樂 , 心靈 , 心理學 , 科學 。
philip zimbardo prescribes a healthy take on time	philipzimbardo預設了一個健康 。
i want to share with you some ideas about the secret power of time , in a very short time .	我想和大家分享一些關於秘密力量的秘密力量 , 很短的時間 。
video: all right , start the clock please . 30 seconds studio .	影片:好的 , 首先 , 開始停房 , 三十秒 。
keep it quiet please . settle down .	保持安靜下來 , 安靜下來 。
it's about time . end sequence . take one .	時間是結束序列 。 最後序列 。
10 , nine , eight , seven , six , five , four , three , two . . .	10 , 9 , 8 , 7 , 6 , 5 , 4 , 3 , 等等 。
philip zimbardo: let's tune into the conversation of the principals in adam's temptation .	菲利普•辛巴爾:讓我們在亞當的對話中進行對話 。
" come on adam , don't be so wishywashy . take a bite . " " i did . "	「 去亞當 , 不要太吃一口 。 」 「 我做過 。 」
" one bite , adam . don't abandon eve . "	「 阿姆 , 亞當 , 不要亞當 。 」
" i don't know , guys .	「 我不知道 , 人 。
i don't want to get in trouble . "	我不想麻煩 。 」
" okay . one bite . what the hell ? "	「 好吧 , 一小兒 , 怎麼樣 ? 」
life is temptation . it's all about yielding , resisting , yes , no , now , later , impulsive , reflective , present focus and future focus .	生命是充滿誘惑的 , 是的 , 不 , 現在 , 再來 , 反思 , 爭論 , 反思 , 爭論 , 和未來的焦點和焦點 。
promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment .	承諾的美德會落入熱情之中 。
of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage thank you george bush the majority , 60 percent , yielded to sexual temptations within one year .	青少年女孩 , 被性愛的誘惑 , 直到婚姻 , 感謝你喬治了大量的百分之六十 , 並且在一年內被排除 。
and most of them did so without using birth control .	大部分的人都沒有使用生育控制 。
so much for promises .	承諾要承諾 。
now lets tempt fouryearolds , giving them a treat .	現在讓我們嘗試四歲孩子 , 給他們一個治療 。
they can have one marshmallow now . but if they wait until the experimenter comes back , they can have two .	牠們有一顆棉花糖 , 但是如果他們等到實驗者回來時 , 他們就可以有兩個 。
of course it pays , if you like marshmallows , to wait .	當然 , 如果你喜歡棉花糖 , 等等 。
what happens is twothirds of the kids give in to temptation .	三分之二的孩童都在誘惑 。
they cannot wait . the others , of course , wait .	他們不能等待 。 其他人 , 當然 , 等等 。
they resist the temptation . they delay the now for later .	他們抗拒誘惑 , 之後再來 。
walter mischel , my colleague at stanford , went back 14 years later , to try to discover what was different about those kids .	史丹佛大學的同事在史丹福大學的同事在史丹福大學了14年後 , 試著找出與這些孩子有什麼不同的地方 。
there were enormous differences between kids who resisted and kids who yielded , in many ways .	孩子們有很大的差異 , 在許多方面 , 都有很大的差異 。
the kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the sat .	救贖了250位的孩童 , 保存了250點 。
that's enormous . that's like a whole set of different iq points .	這很巨大 。 這就像是一組不同的智商標準 。
they didn't get in as much trouble . they were better students .	他們沒多麻煩 。 他們是比較好的學生 。
they were selfconfident and determined . and the key for me today , the key for you , is , they were futurefocused rather than presentfocused .	他們是自信且決心的關鍵 , 我今天的關鍵是 , 你的關鍵是 , 他們是未來的 , 而不是現在的鑰匙 。
so what is time perspective ? that's what i'm going to talk about today .	所以 , 時間是怎樣的呢 ? 這就是我今天要談的內容 。
time perspective is the study of how individuals , all of us , divide the flow of your human experience into time zones or time categories .	觀點是人類體驗的研究 , 或時間分裂 , 或時間分裂 。
and you do it automatically and nonconsciously .	而且你會自動和無意識地做 。
they vary between cultures , between nations , between individuals , between social classes , between education levels .	他們在文化、國家之間、社會階級之間 , 和社會階級之間的差距 。
and the problem is that they can become biased , because you learn to overuse some of them and underuse the others .	問題是 , 牠們會變得偏見 , 因為你學會會被偏見 , 因為你學會會變得偏見 。
what determines any decision you make ?	什麼決定你做出決定 ?
you make a decision on which you're going to base an action .	你做出一個決定 , 你要做出一個決定 。
for some people it's only about what is in the immediate situation , what other people are doing and what you're feeling .	對於某些人來說 , 其他人正在做的事 , 以及你所感受到的 。
and those people , when they make their decisions in that format we're going to call them " presentoriented , " because their focus is what is now .	而那些人 , 當他們做出決策時 , 我們會稱之為 「 自願者 」 , 因為他們的焦點是現在的 。
for others , the present is irrelevant .	對其他人來說 , 現況是不相關的 。
it's always about " what is this situation like that i've experienced in the past ? "	總是說: 「 我過去所經歷過的情況是什麼 ? 」
so that their decisions are based on past memories .	他們的決策是基於過去記憶 。
and we're going to call those people " pastoriented , " because they focus on what was .	我們會把這些人稱為 「 過去原始人 」 , 因為他們專注在哪裡 。
for others it's not the past , it's not the present , it's only about the future .	對於其他人來說 , 這不是過去 , 不是現在 , 而是在未來 。
their focus is always about anticipated consequences .	他們的焦點總是在預期的後果 。
we're going to call them " futureoriented . " their focus is on what will be .	我們將稱之為 「 未來期望 」 , 他們專注於未來的期望 。
so , time paradox , i want to argue , the paradox of time perspective , is something that influences every decision you make , you're totally unaware of .	所以 , 時間悖論 , 我想要辯論 , 時間悖論 , 反而是影響你所做出的每一個決定 , 你完全沒有意識到 。
namely , the extent to which you have one of these biased time perspectives .	意思是 , 你有這種偏見的觀點 , 就會有這種偏見 。
well there is actually six of them . there are two ways to be presentoriented .	其實有六個 , 其中有兩種方式 。
there is two ways to be pastoriented , two ways to be future .	過去有兩種方式 , 未來有兩種方式 。
you can focus on pastpositive , or pastnegative .	你可以專注於正面或負面的負面 。
you can be presenthedonistic , namely you focus on the joys of life , or presentfatalist it doesn't matter , your life is controlled .	你可以被掌控 , 專注在喜悅生命中 , 或虛擬主義者 , 它並不重要 , 你的生活被控制 。
you can be futureoriented , setting goals .	你可以成為未來的目標 , 設定目標 。
or you can be transcendental future: namely , life begins after death .	或你是超越未來的: 「 生命早在死亡後開始 。
developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidly depending on the demands of the situation , that's what you've got to learn to do .	發展出心理的靈活性 , 可以改變時間觀點 , 轉換時間觀點 , 其實是你必須學習的 。
so , very quickly , what is the optimal time profile ?	所以 , 很快的 , 最佳的時代是什麼 ?
high on pastpositive . moderately high on future .	很高 , 很高 , 未來很高 。
and moderate on presenthedonism .	現代化的現代主義 。
and always low on pastnegative and presentfatalism .	總是低於過去負面和真實主義 。
so the optimal temporal mix is what you get from the past pastpositive gives you roots . you connect your family , identity and your self .	所以最樂觀的臨界是你從過去所傳遞到的 , 你把你的家人、身分和你的家人、身分和你的個人連結在一起 。
what you get from the future is wings to soar to new destinations , new challenges .	你從未來的目的就是要追求新的挑戰 , 新的挑戰 。
what you get from the present hedonism is the energy , the energy to explore yourself , places , people , sensuality .	你從現場表達出來的能量是能量 , 去探索自己、人、人、感知 。
any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives .	任何時間的觀點 , 都比正面更有負面 。
what do futures sacrifice for success ?	未來犧牲成功的原因是什麼 ?
they sacrifice family time . they sacrifice friend time .	他們犧牲家庭時間 , 犧牲家庭時間 。
they sacrifice fun time . they sacrifice personal indulgence .	犧牲個人的優勢 , 犧牲個人的婚姻 。
they sacrifice hobbies . and they sacrifice sleep . so it affects their health .	他們犧牲睡眠 , 所以它會影響健康 。
and they live for work , achievement and control .	他們活著工作、成就 , 以及控制 。
i'm sure that resonates with some of the tedsters .	我肯定和一些tedsterstersterstersterster 。
and it resonated for me . i grew up as a poor kid in the south bronx ghetto , a sicilian family everyone lived in the past and present .	對我來說 , 我是南布朗克斯區的一個貧窮的孩子 。 一個貧窮的孩子 , 在南布朗克斯區的一個貧窮的孩子 , 也是在南布朗克斯區的貧民窟 。
i'm here as a futureoriented person who went over the top , who did all these sacrifices because teachers intervened , and made me future oriented .	我是位在前面的那些犧牲者 , 做這些犧牲 , 因為老師介入我 , 讓我成為未來的主人 。
told me don't eat that marshmallow , because if you wait you're going to get two of them , until i learned to balance out .	告訴我不要吃那棉花糖 , 因為如果你等待你會得到兩位 , 直到我學到平衡 。
i've added presenthedonism , i've added a focus on the pastpositive , so , at 76 years old , i am more energetic than ever , more productive , and i'm happier than i have ever been .	我加上了專注在過去的正面上 , 我比過去更有創意 , 更有生產力 , 而且我比以前更高興 。
i just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems: changing the dropout rates of school kids , combating addictions , enhancing teen health , curing vets' ptsd with time metaphors getting miracle cures promoting sustainability and conservation , reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50percent drop out rate , altering appeals to suicidal terrorists , and modifying family conflicts as timezone clashes .	我只是想要說 , 我們正在應用這個世界問題:改變許多問題:改善家庭衝突 , 例如:改善貧民區 , 改善家庭衝突 , 例如:改善貧民區 , 改善家庭衝突 , 例如 「 增加五百分之一 」 , 持續和保育 , 來改善貧民窟 , 改善貧窮的環境 , 改善家庭衝突 , 例如 , 改善家庭衝突 。
so i want to end by saying: many of life's puzzles can be solved by understanding your time perspective and that of others .	最後我想說的是 , 許多人生的謎題都可以透過理解你的時間觀點和其他人的理解 。
and the idea is so simple , so obvious , but i think the consequences are really profound .	這個想法很簡單 , 很明顯 , 但我認為後果是非常深遠的 。
how many of today's headlines will matter in 100 years ? 1000 ? kirk citron's " long news " project collects stories that not only matter today , but will resonate for decades even centuries to come . at ted2010 , he highlights recent headlines with the potential to shape our future .	現今有多少人的頭條新聞報導 , 「 長期新聞 」 計畫收集了這些故事 , 不只重要 , 但在2010年時 , 他提高了近期的頭條新聞 , 關於 「 長期新聞 」 這個計畫收集了數十年 , 甚至數十年來 , 甚至在ted2010年 , 他高速地將近期的頭條新聞寫成 「 長期新聞 」 計畫收集故事 。
future , global issues , media , news , science	未來、全球議題、媒體、新聞、科學 。
kirk citron: and now , the real news	kirkirkcitron:現在 , 真正的新聞 。
we are drowning in news .	我們在新聞中消失 。
reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year .	自閉症患者單單一半以上 , 每年有350萬名新聞故事 。
that's just one source .	這只是個源頭 。
my question is: how many of those stories are actually going to matter in the long run ?	我的問題是:這些故事當中有多少人在長期中會發生 ?
that's the idea behind the long news .	這是長期新聞的概念 。
it's a project by the long now foundation , which was founded by tedsters including kevin kelly and stewart brand .	這個計畫是由tedsterster所建立的 , 由tedsterster包括kevinkevinkevinkevinkevinkevinkevinkevinkevinkevinkevinkevinkevinkelly和stewart品牌 。
and what we're looking for is news stories that might still matter 50 or 100 or 10 , 000 years from now .	我們在尋找的是新的新聞故事 , 可能還在50、100或100或100或100萬年之間 。
and when you look at the news through that filter , a lot falls by the wayside .	當你看著新聞通過過濾器時 , 許多會落下 。
to take the top stories from the a . p . this last year , is this going to matter in a decade ?	去年 , 在一個十年內 , 關於這個故事 , 會發生什麼事 ?
is this going to matter in 50 or 100 years ?	這在50或100年後會發生什麼事 ?
okay , that was kind of cool .	好吧 , 那很酷 。
but the top story of this past year was the economy , and i'm just betting that , sooner or later , this particular recession is going to be old news .	但 , 過去一年的最高層次是經濟 , 我剛剛提到 , 或後 , 這種特定的衰退會變成舊新聞 。
so , what kind of stories might make a difference for the future ?	所以 , 關於未來的故事 , 會有什麼不同 ?
well , let's take science .	嗯 , 咱們來談科學 。
someday , little robots will go through our bloodstreams fixing things .	有些時候 , 機器人會穿過我們的血液 , 來修復東西 。
that someday is already here if you're a mouse .	昨天已經在這裡 , 如果你是老鼠 。
some recent stories: nanobees zap tumors with real bee venom ; they're sending genes into the brain ; a robot they built that can crawl through the human body .	一些最近的故事:奈米be會吸收到腦袋裡的機器人 , 它們會把遺傳送到大腦 , 一個機器人可以爬過人類身體 。
what about resources ? how are we going to feed nine billion people ?	資源呢 ? 我們要如何餵養九十億人 ?
we're having trouble feeding six billion today .	我們現在有麻煩了六十億美金 。
as we heard yesterday , there's over a billion people hungry .	如同我們昨天聽到的 , 有超過十億人挨餓 。
britain will starve without genetically modified crops .	英國沒有基因改造的作物 。
bill gates , fortunately , has bet a billion on [agricultural] research .	比爾蓋茲很幸運 , 已經有十億個在農業研究 。
what about global politics ?	全球政治呢 ?
the world's going to be very different when and if china sets the agenda , and they may .	世界將會變得非常不同 , 如果中國設定議程 , 就會變得很不一樣 。
they've overtaken the u . s . as the world's biggest car market , they've overtaken germany as the largest exporter , and they've started doing dna tests on kids to choose their careers .	他們把美國當作世界上最大的汽車市場 , 他們開始做dna測試 , 讓孩子們選擇他們的職業 。
we're finding all kinds of ways to push back the limits of what we know .	我們找到各種方法來推動我們所知的限制 。
some recent discoveries: there's an ant colony from argentina that has now spread to every continent but antarctica ; there's a selfdirected robot scientist that's made a discovery soon , science may no longer need us , and life may no longer need us either ; a microbe wakes up after 120 , 000 years .	一些最近的研究發現 , 阿根廷現在已經傳播到每一個大陸 , 但南極洲 , 一個發現 , 人類的基因 , 科學不再需要我們 , 而且生命可能不再需要我們 , 每一兩萬年都在一億兩千年間 。
it seems that with or without us , life will go on .	似乎沒有我們 , 生命會走上去 。
but my pick for the top long news story of this past year was this one: water found on the moon .	但是我在月球上最長的報導就是這個:水在月球上找到 。
makes it a lot easier to put a colony up there .	讓蟻群變得更容易 。
and if nasa doesn't do it , china might , or somebody in this room might write a big check .	如果nasa不這麼做 , 中國可能在這個房間裡可能會寫一個大型的檢查 。
my point is this: in the long run , some news stories are more important than others .	我的重點是:長期來說 , 有些新聞故事比其他人更重要 。
planetary scientist carolyn porco shows images from the cassini voyage to saturn , focusing on its largest moon , titan , and on frozen enceladus , which seems to shoot jets of ice .	地球科學家卡西尼號航海報導的圖像從克斯威尼號到土星 , 到土星 , 到土星 , 最大的月球、土星、土星 , 甚至在冰層上 。
nasa , design , exploration , science , space , technology , universe , visualizations	nasa、設計、探索、科學、太空、科技、宇宙、視覺化 。
carolyn porco flies us to saturn	卡羅琳•普羅林•帕羅林帶著我們到土星 。
in the next 18 minutes , i'm going to take you on a journey .	在接下來的18分鐘 , 我要帶你們踏上旅程 。
and it's a journey that you and i have been on for many years now , and it began some 50 years ago , when humans first stepped off our planet .	這是你和我的旅程 , 許多年來 , 人類第一次踏出我們的星球 。
and in those 50 years , not only did we literally , physically set foot on the moon , but we have dispatched robotic spacecraft to all the planets all eight of them and we have landed on asteroids , we have rendezvoused with comets , and , at this point in time , we have a spacecraft on its way to pluto , the body formerly known as a planet .	在五十年之內 , 我們不僅僅真的在飛行 , 太空船從地球上飛行 , 而我們在太空船上飛行 , 和彗星相同 , 我們在太空船上飛行 , 和彗星相同 , 我們在太空船上飛行 , 和彗星相同 , 我們在太空船上飛行 , 和彗星相同 , 我們在太空船上飛行 。
and all of these robotic missions are part of a bigger human journey: a voyage to understand something , to get a sense of our cosmic place , to understand something of our origins , and how earth , our planet , and we , living on it , came to be .	所有這些機器人任務都是一個更大的人類旅程的一部分:一個旅程的旅程 , 去了解我們的原始、地球、地球、地球 , 以及我們生活在哪裡 。
and of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this , there's saturn . and we have been to saturn before we visited saturn in the early 1980s but our investigations of saturn have become far more indepth in detail since the cassini spacecraft , traveling across interplanetary space for seven years , glided into orbit around saturn in the summer of 2004 , and became at that point the farthest robotic outpost that humanity had ever established around the sun .	太陽系裡的所有地方都可以找到答案 , 像這樣 , 直到1980年代早期 , 我們還在探訪土星 , 直到太空船 , 飛行到太空船 , 飛行太空船 , 飛行太空船 , 飛行太空船 , 飛行太空船 , 飛行太空船 , 飛行太空船 , 飛行太空船 , 飛行到太空飛行器 , 旅行在2004年的太空船上 , 旅行到太空船上 , 旅行在太空船上 , 太空船飛行了太空船 , 飛行到太空船上 , 旅行到太空船 , 到太空飛行器 , 繞過太空飛行器 。
now , the saturn system is a rich planetary system .	土星系統是很豐富的星球系統 。
it offers mystery , scientific insight and obviously splendor beyond compare , and the investigation of this system has enormous cosmic reach .	它提供了神秘、科學洞見和明顯的分析 , 與其它的調查系統有巨大的宇宙力 。
in fact , just studying the rings alone , we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies .	事實上 , 僅僅在研究單單 , 我們就站在學習很多關於恆星和氣體的行星 , 我們稱之為 「 螺旋星星 」 。
and here's a beautiful picture of the andromeda nebula , which is our closest , largest spiral galaxy to the milky way .	這裡有一個美麗的圖像 , 位於銀河系中 , 最接近 , 最接近最大的星系 。
and then , here's a beautiful composite of the whirlpool galaxy , taken by the hubble space telescope .	接著 , 這裡有一個美麗的成形 , 是由哈伯太空望遠鏡拍攝的 。
so the journey back to saturn is really part of and is also a metaphor for a much larger human voyage to understand the interconnectedness of everything around us , and also how humans fit into that picture .	所以 , 旅程回到土星的旅程 , 其實是一部分 , 也是一個比喻更大的人類 , 來了解我們周圍的連結 , 以及人類如何融入這些圖片 。
and it pains me that i can't tell you all that we have learned with cassini .	讓我覺得我無法告訴你們我們在卡西尼所學到的一切 。
i can't show you all the beautiful pictures that we've taken in the last two and a half years , because i simply don't have the time .	我不能給你們看我們拍攝的美麗照片 , 過去兩年半的時間 , 因為我沒有時間 。
so i'm going to concentrate on two of the most exciting stories that have emerged out of this major exploratory expedition that we are conducting around saturn , and have been for the past two and a half years .	所以我將要集中最令人興奮的故事之一 , 過去兩年半 , 我們在土星的大型探險旅程中進行了這次大探險的探險 。
saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons .	土星是由一個非常大且多樣的集體所組成的 。
they range in size from a few kilometers across to as big across as the u . s .	他們從幾公里長的距離幾公里遠 , 以至於美國的大規模 。
most of the beautiful pictures we've taken of saturn , in fact , show saturn in accompaniment with some of its moons . here's saturn with dione , and then , here's saturn showing the rings edgeon , showing you just how vertically thin they are , with the moon enceladus .	我們所拍攝的美麗照片之一 , 土星是土星的 , 這裡是土星的 , 這裡是土星的 , 這裡是土星的土星 , 這裡是土星的土星 , 這裡是土星 , 這裡是土星 , 這裡是土星 , 這裡是土星 , 這裡是土星的圖片 。
now , two of the 47 moons that saturn has are standouts .	土星上有2個47個月球是站立的 。
and those are titan and enceladus . titan is saturn's largest moon , and , until cassini had arrived there , was the largest single expanse of unexplored terrain that we had remaining in our solar system .	這些是土衛二、土衛六、土衛六 , 土星是土衛六 。 土衛六是土衛六 。 土衛六是土衛六 。 土衛六是土衛六 。 土衛六是土衛六 。 土衛六是土衛六 。 土衛六是土衛六 。 土衛六是土衛六 。 土衛六是土衛六 。 土衛六是土衛六 。 土星是土衛二 。 土衛六
and it is a body that has long intrigued people who've watched the planets .	它是一種身體 , 它有很長的感染人 , 看過地球的行星 。
it has a very large , thick atmosphere , and in fact , its surface environment was believed to be more like the environment we have here on the earth , or at least had in the past , than any other body in the solar system .	它的大氣層非常大 , 實際上 , 它的表面環境被認為更像我們在地球上的環境 , 或至少在過去 , 沒有任何其他的身體在地球上 。
its atmosphere is largely molecular nitrogen , like you are breathing here in this room , except that its atmosphere is suffused with simple organic materials like methane and propane and ethane .	它的大氣層是大氣層 , 像是甲烷、乙烷 , 大氣層 , 大氣層是大氣層 。
and these molecules high up in the atmosphere of titan get broken down , and their products join together to make haze particles .	這些分子在泰坦的大氣層中被破壞了 , 他們的產品會加入混合在一起 , 使它們的冷藏起來 。
this haze is ubiquitous . it's completely global and enveloping titan .	這隻海豹是無所不在的 , 它完全是全球性的 , 全是全國性的 。
and that's why you cannot see down to the surface with our eyes in the visible region of the spectrum .	這就是為什麼你無法在眼睛看到的表面 , 眼睛的視覺區分 。
but these haze particles , it was surmised , before we got there with cassini , over billions and billions of years , gently drifted down to the surface and coated the surface in a thick organic sludge .	但是這些微粒子 , 經過數十億年 , 直到地面 , 被壓縮到表面上 , 經過數十億年的溫度 , 直到表面 , 被壓縮到表面上 。
so like the equivalent , the titan equivalent , of tar , or oil , or what we didn't know what .	所以就像是平均、油 , 或石油 , 或我們不知道什麼 。
but this is what we suspected . and these molecules , especially methane and ethane , can be liquids at the surface temperatures of titan .	但這是我們所懷疑的 。 這些分子 , 特別甲烷和乙烷 , 這些分子特別是甲烷和乙烷 , 這些分子特別是甲烷和乙烷 , 這些分子特別是甲烷和乙烷 。 這些分子特別是甲烷和乙烷 。 這些分子特別是甲烷和乙烷 。
and so it turns out that methane is to titan what water is to the earth .	結果發現 , 甲烷是泰坦水在地球上 。
it's a condensable in the atmosphere , and so recognizing this circumstance brought to the fore a whole world of bizarre possibilities . you can have methane clouds , ok , and above those clouds , you have this hundreds of kilometers of haze , which prevent any sunlight from getting to the surface .	在大氣層中 , 這樣的情況是可以產生的 , 那些雲層 , 可以有數百公里的空氣 , 來避免任何陽光從水面上升起 。
the temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero fahrenheit .	表面的溫度是350度 , 表面的溫度是攝氏350度 。
but despite that cold , you could have rain falling down on the surface of titan .	但儘管如此寒冷 , 你可能會降落在土衛六的表面上 。
and doing on titan what rain does on the earth: it carves gullies ; it forms rivers and cataracts ; it can create canyons ; it can pool in large basins and craters .	在地球上 , 它會形成河流和水晶 , 它可以創造峽谷 , 它能形成河流和水晶 , 它能創造峽谷 , 它能形成河流和水晶 。
it can wash the sludge off high mountain peaks and hills , down into the lowlands . so stop and think for a minute .	它可以從高山山脈和山丘下降到低地 , 這樣停下來想想 。
try to imagine what the surface of titan might look like .	試著想像一下土衛六的表面 。
it's dark . high noon on titan is as dark as deep earth twilight on the earth .	它是黑暗的 , 在泰坦的黑暗是暗的 , 高速在地球上是黑暗的 。
it's cold , it's eerie , it's misty , it might be raining , and you might be standing on the shores of lake michigan brimming with paint thinner .	它很冷 , 很冷 , 可能是雨林 , 你可能會站在雷克密西根湖密西根州的湖密西根湖岸 。
that is the view that we had of the surface of titan before we got there with cassini , and i can tell you that what we have found on titan , though it is not the same in detail , is every bit as fascinating as that story is .	這是我們在titan的表面上看到的 , 我可以告訴各位 , 我們在titan的表面上發現了 , 雖然它不是一樣細節 , 細節的描述也很有趣 。
and for us , it has been like the cassini people it has been like a jules verne adventure come true .	對我們來說 , 它就像是卡西尼人 , 它就像是卡西尼人 , 一直以來 , 像克斯丁尼一樣 。
as i said , it has a thick , extensive atmosphere .	如同我所說的 , 它有厚厚的大氣層 。
this is a picture of titan , backlit by the sun , with the rings as a beautiful backdrop .	這是泰坦的照片 , 由太陽的背景拍攝 , 背景是美麗的背景 。
and yet another moon there i don't even know which one it is . it's a very extensive atmosphere .	另外一個月球 , 我不知道它是哪一個 , 它是非常強大的大氣層 。
we have instruments on cassini which can see down to the surface through this atmosphere , and my camera system is one of them .	我們有樂器在卡西尼號的儀器上 , 可以從大氣層中看到 , 我的攝影機系統是其中之一 。
and we have taken pictures like this .	我們拍了這張照片
and what you see is bright and dark regions , and that's about as far as it got for us .	你看到的是明亮和黑暗的區域 , 這對我們來說是很明顯的 。
it was so mystifying: we couldn't make out what we were seeing on titan .	非常神秘:我們無法在泰坦看到的 。
when you look closer at this region , you start to see things like sinuous channels we didn't know . you see a few round things .	當你仔細看這個區域 , 你會看到一些圓形的東西 。
this , we later found out , is , in fact , a crater , but there are very few craters on the surface of titan , meaning it's a very young surface .	我們後來發現 , 實際上 , 這裡是一塊土地的表面 , 但在土地的表面上有一些很小的表面 , 其實是很小的表面 。
and there are features that look tectonic .	這裡有一些特徵 , 看起來是圓形 。
they look like they've been pulled apart .	他們看起來像是被分開了 。
whenever you see anything linear on a planet , it means there's been a fracture , like a fault .	每當你看到任何線條 , 就會表示有一段碎形 , 就像是錯的 。
and so it's been tectonically altered .	所以 , 它一直是直接的改變 。
but we couldn't make sense of our images , until , six months after we got into orbit , an event occurred that many have regarded as the highlight of cassini's investigation of titan .	但是我們無法理解我們的影像 , 直到六個月後 , 我們進入軌道上 , 一個事件發生了 , 被稱為 「 卡斯納尼號調查 」 的調查 。
and that was the deployment of the huygens probe , the europeanbuilt huygens probe that cassini had carried for seven years across the solar system . we deployed it to the atmosphere of titan , it took two and a half hours to descend , and it landed on the surface .	由於地球表面 , 由於土衛二的大氣層 , 由於土衛六年 , 在太陽系中 , 我們將它送到大氣層 , 用在土衛六 , 將它送到大氣層 , 用在土衛二 , 花了兩半半小時 , 才能將它放到大氣層 。
and i just want to emphasize how significant an event this is .	我只想強調一下 , 這到底是多麼重要的 。
this is a device of human making , and it landed in the outer solar system for the first time in human history .	這是人造的裝置 , 它在太陽系中第一次在人類史上第一次出現 。
it is so significant that , in my mind , this was an event that should have been celebrated with ticker tape parades in every city across the u . s . and europe , and sadly , that wasn't the case .	很明顯的是 , 在我的腦海裡 , 整個美國和歐洲的事件都很明顯 , 這種事件 , 應該被慶祝在美國和歐洲 , 悲慘的事件 , 並不是這樣 。
it was significant for another reason . this is an international mission , and this event was celebrated in europe , in germany , and the celebratory presentations were given in english accents , and american accents , and german accents , and french and italian and dutch accents .	這很有意義 。 這是個國際性的任務 , 在德國的演講中 , 首先 , ted的演說會出現在英語中 , 美國的口音 , 還有德國人 , 尤其是英國的國會 , 英國口音和英語音響 , 以及美國的口音 , 還有德國人 , 在德國 , 特別是國際任務 。 這是一個國際任務 。 這是一個國際的任務 , 在德國 , 首先 , 和德國的日常一樣 。
it was a moving demonstration of what the words " united nations " are supposed to mean: a true union of nations joined together in a colossal effort for good .	這是個關於 「 聯合國 」 的概念 , 一個真正的聯合國集結在一起 , 成為一個真正的聯合國集合在一起 。
and , in this case , it was a massive undertaking to explore a planet , and to come to understand a planetary system that , for all of human history , had been unreachable , and now humans had actually touched it .	在這個案例中 , 要去探索一個行星 , 一個行星的系統 , 人類已經不可置信了 , 直到現在人類真的碰到它了 。
so it was i mean , i'm getting goose bumps just talking about it .	所以 , 我的意思是 , 我會說 , 要花點時間去談它 。
it was a tremendously emotional event , and it's something that i will personally never forget , and you shouldn't either .	這真的是件令人感激的事件 , 也是我個人永遠不會忘記的 , 而你也不應該這麼做 。
but anyway , the probe took measurements of the atmosphere on the way down , and it also took panoramic pictures .	但無論如何 , 探測器在下面進行測量 , 並且也拍攝了大氣層的照片 。
and i can't tell you what it was like to see the first pictures of titan's surface from the probe . and this is what we saw .	我無法告訴你們 , 看到的第一張圖片是從探測器上拍出來的 , 這是我們看到的 。
and it was a shocker , because it was everything we wanted those other pictures taken from orbit to be .	這很震驚 , 因為我們所想要的其他照片從軌道上移動 。
it was an unambiguous pattern , a geological pattern .	這是個不可思議的模式 , 一個邏輯模式 。
it's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids .	它是一個可以形式的液體 , 可以用液態來形成的 。
and you can follow these channels and you can see how they all converge .	你可以追蹤這些頻道 , 可以觀察它們的頻道 。
and they converge into this channel here , which drains into this region .	他們將這條線帶到這個區塊 , 在那裡 , 進入這個區域 。
you are looking at a shoreline .	你正在看著海岸線 。
was this a shoreline of fluids ? we didn't know .	這是液體的流體嗎 ? 我們不知道 。
but this is somewhat of a shoreline .	但這有點像是海岸線 。
this picture is taken at 16 kilometers .	這張照片是16公里 。
this is the picture taken at eight kilometers , ok ? again , the shoreline .	這張照片是8公里的照片 , 又一次 , 海岸線 。
okay , now , 16 kilometers , eight kilometers this is roughly an airline altitude .	好 , 現在 , 16公里 , 8公里 , 大概是飛行的飛行器 。
if you were going to take an airplane trip across the u . s . , you would be flying at these altitudes .	如果你將飛機在美國的飛機上飛行 , 你就會在這些高度上飛行 。
so , this is the picture you would have at the window of titanian airlines as you fly across the surface of titan .	這張照片是你在泰坦尼亞航空飛行的窗戶外面的照片 。
and then finally , the probe came to rest on the surface , and i'm going to show you , ladies and gentlemen , the first picture ever taken from the surface of a moon in the outer solar system .	最後 , 在外太陽系的表面上 , 我將展示給各位看 , 先生女士 , 先生們 , 首先是來自太陽系外太陽系的表面 。
and here is the horizon , ok ?	這是地平線 , 好嗎 ?
these are probably water ice pebbles , yes ?	這些可能是水冰泡 , 是嗎 ?
and obviously , it landed in one of these flat , dark regions and it didn't sink out of sight . so it wasn't fluid that we landed in .	很明顯地 , 它在一個平面的黑暗區域中被扭曲 , 而它不會被忽視 。 所以它不是液體 。
what the probe came down in was basically the titan equivalent of a mud flat .	原來的底部是泥巴 , 基本上就是泥巴 。
this is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane .	這是個不可思議的地面 , 裡面有液態甲烷 。
and it's probably the case that this material has washed off the highlands of titan through these channels that we saw , and has drained over billions of years to fill in lowlying basins .	可能是這種材料被廢棄的土地 , 在我們所看到的這些頻道上 , 數十億年來填滿在低水底下的土地 。
and that is what the huygens probe landed in .	這就是 「 獵原原本 」 的樣子 。
but still , there was no sign in our images , or even in the huygens' images , of any large , open bodies of fluids .	但 , 我們的影像中沒有標記 , 甚至是大型的液體的影像 , 或甚至是液體的影像 。
where were they ? it got even more puzzling when we found dunes .	牠們在哪裡呢 ? 更令人困惑 。
ok , so this is our movie of the equatorial region of titan , showing these dunes . these are dunes that are 100 meters tall , separated by a few kilometers , and they go on for miles and miles and miles .	好 , 這是我們在土衛二的一百公尺高的地點 , 他們會在土地上飛行 , 挖掘出這些沙丘 , 它們是一百公尺高 , 距離數公里 , 遠距離距離距離 。
there's hundreds , up to a 1 , 000 or 1 , 200 miles of dunes .	大約有1000或1 , 000或1 , 000或1 , 000或1200英里 。
this is the saharan desert of titan .	這是撒哈拉沙漠的沙漠 。
it's obviously a place which is very dry , or you wouldn't get dunes .	很明顯地 , 一個地方很乾燥 , 或你不會得到沙丘 。
so again , it got puzzling that there were no bodies of fluid , until finally , we saw lakes in the polar regions .	所以 , 再一次 , 難以置信 , 直到最後 , 我們看到湖泊在北極區域 。
and there is a lake scene in the south polar region of titan .	南極地區有個湖景 。
it's about the size of lake ontario .	差不多是湖泊塔里奧的大小 。
and then , only a week and a half ago , we flew over the north pole of titan and found , again , we found a feature here the size of the caspian sea .	然後 , 一週一半前 , 我們飛過北極點 , 再次發現 , 我們在海底的特徵上發現了一件事 。
so it seems that the liquids , for some reason we don't understand , or during at least this season , are apparently at the poles of titan .	所以 , 似乎是液體 , 有些原因我們不了解 , 或至少這季節時 , 很明顯地在海森 。
and i think you would agree that we have found titan is a remarkable , mystical place . it's exotic , it's alien , but yet strangely earthlike , and having earthlike geological formations and a tremendous geographical diversity , and is a fascinating world whose only rival in the solar system for complexity and richness is the earth itself .	大家會同意我們發現泰坦是個很奇妙的星球 , 但奇怪的是地球本身 , 像地球一樣 , 地球本身 , 和豐富的星球 , 地球本身 , 和豐富的地球 。
and so now we go onto enceladus . enceladus is a small moon , it's about a tenth the size of titan . and you can see it here next to england , just to show you the size . this is not meant to be a threat .	所以現在我們回到土衛二 , 這裡是泰坦的大小 , 你可以看到它在英格蘭的大小 , 你可以看到它在英格蘭的大小 , 你可以看到它在英格蘭的大小 , 你可以看到它在英格蘭的大小 , 你可以看到它在英格蘭的大小 , 你可以看到它在英格蘭的大小 , 只是你可以看到它在英格蘭的大小 。
and enceladus is very white , it's very bright , and its surface is obviously wrecked with fractures .	土衛二是非常明顯的 , 它的表面很明顯地被破壞了 。
it is a very geologically active body .	它是非常地理性的身體 。
but the mother lode of discoveries on enceladus was found at the south pole and we're looking at the south pole here where we found this system of fractures .	但在埃斯蘭德斯的母親發現 , 我們在南極找到了這個系統 , 我們在南極找到了這個系統 。
and they're a different color because they're a different composition .	它們是不同的顏色 , 因為它們是不同的顏色 。
they are coated . these fractures are coated with organic materials .	它們被覆蓋 , 這些碎片被包含有機物質 。
moreover , this whole , entire region , the south polar region , has elevated temperatures . it's the hottest place on the planet , on the body .	此外 , 整個區域 , 南極區域 , 整個區域 , 溫度是地球上最高的溫度 。
that's as bizarre as finding that the antarctic on the earth is hotter than the tropics .	這很奇怪 , 地球的熱帶比熱帶還要熱 。
and then , when we took additional pictures , we discovered that from these fractures are issuing jets of fine , icy particles extending hundreds of miles into space .	然後 , 當我們拿出更多的圖片時 , 我們發現 , 從這些碎片中 , 冰粒會擴展到太空中 , 數百英里外 。
and when we colorcode this image , to bring out the faint light levels , we see that these jets feed a plume that , in fact , we see , in other images , goes thousands of miles into the space above enceladus .	當我們把顏色的影像帶出光線時 , 我們看到這些噴射噴射出光層 , 我們看到這些噴射的光源在土地上數千英里外 , 進入太空中 。
my team and i have examined images like this , and like this one , and have thought about the other results from cassini .	我的團隊和我研究了一些類似這樣的圖像 , 像這樣 , 像這樣 , 想出了其他的結果 。
and we have arrived at the conclusion that these jets may be erupting from pockets of liquid water under the surface of enceladus .	我們得到了結論 , 這些噴泉可能是從土壤中噴出的液態水 , 在土地表面 。
so we have , possibly , liquid water , organic materials and excess heat .	所以 , 我們有有機物質、有機物質 , 和過熱 。
in other words , we have possibly stumbled upon the holy grail of modern day planetary exploration , or in other words , an environment that is potentially suitable for living organisms .	換句話說 , 我們可能有有機體的環境 , 可以適應生活有機體的環境 。
and i don't think i need to tell you that the discovery of life elsewhere in our solar system , whether it be on enceladus or elsewhere , would have enormous cultural and scientific implications .	我不認為我需要告訴你們我們太陽系裡的發現 , 不論是在土衛二或其他地方 , 都會有巨大的文化和科學上的發現 。
because if we could demonstrate that genesis had occurred not once , but twice , independently , in our solar system , then that means , by inference , it has occurred a staggering number of times throughout the universe and its 13 . 7 billion year history .	因為如果我們能證明 , 基因已經發生了 , 不只一次 , 同時 , 在我們的太陽系中 , 這意味著 , 根據我們的太陽系 , 它已經發生了很多次 , 發生在宇宙的三十七十億年歷史 。
right now , earth is the only planet still that we know is teeming with life .	現在 , 地球是唯一的星球 , 我們仍然知道 , 地球是唯一的星球 。
it is precious , it is unique , it is still , so far , the only home we've ever known .	它很珍貴 , 它是獨一無二的 , 它是獨一無二的 , 目前我們所知的唯一一個家 。
and if any of you were alert and coherent during the 1960s and we'd forgive you , if you weren't , ok you would remember this very famous picture taken by the apollo 8 astronauts in 1968 .	如果你們在1968年被阿波羅八號太空人所拍攝 , 那麼你會記得這個非常有名的照片 , 由阿波羅8號太空人拍攝的 。
it was the first time that earth was imaged from space , and it had an enormous impact on our sense of place in the universe , and our sense of responsibility for the protection of our own planet .	這是第一次地球從太空中拍攝 , 它對我們對地球的重大影響在宇宙中 , 以及我們對地球的責任感 。
well , we on cassini have taken an equivalent first , a picture that no human eye has ever seen before .	嗯 , 我們在casini拍攝了一場前所未見的照片 , 人類眼睛也看不到 。
it is a total eclipse of the sun , seen from the other side of saturn .	它是太陽的一面 , 來自土星的一面 。
and in this impossibly beautiful picture , you see the main rings backlit by the sun , you see the refracted image of the sun and you see this ring created , in fact , by the exhalations of enceladus .	在這張照片中 , 你看到了太陽的重覆 , 實際上 , 由於太陽的光線 , 你看到了太陽的背景 , 實際上 , 由於土衛二 。
but as if that weren't brilliant enough , we can spot , in this beautiful image , sight of our own planet , cradled in the arms of saturn's rings .	但如果這張美麗的影像 , 我們還不夠聰明 , 我們就能在土星的影像中 , 看到我們自己的星球 , 由土星在土星的衛星拍攝 。
now , there is something deeply moving about seeing ourselves from afar , and capturing the sight of our little , blueocean planet in the skies of other worlds .	現在 , 有一些深刻的看法 , 看著我們自己的小小、藍色的星球在其他世界的天空中 。
and that , and the perspective of ourselves that we gain from that , may be , in the end , the finest reward that we earn from this journey of discovery that started half a century ago .	而我們所知的觀點 , 從這段旅程發現的一半個世紀前 , 我們從這趟旅程發現了一半個世紀 。
as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped . this slows the delivery of aid after a disaster and hides the economic potential of unused lands and unknown roads . in this short talk , google's lalitesh katragadda demos map maker , a group mapmaking tool that people around the globe are using to map their world .	2005年 , 只有15%的人在這個短期內 , 發現世界各地的地圖和未知道路 。 這段短期的演講 , 谷歌的結尾 , 叫做 " 谷歌 " 的 " 地圖 " , 在這短期內 , 全球的地圖製造者 , 使用地圖繪製工具 , 全球各地的人都在使用地圖 , 來繪製他們的世界 。
collaboration , design , map , technology	合作、設計、地圖、技術 。
lalitesh katragadda: making maps to fight disaster , build economies	拉里斯坦•卡爾加達:製作地圖對抗災難 , 建立經濟體 。
in 2008 , cyclone nargis devastated myanmar .	2008年 , 塞羅尼納爾尼納爾尼納爾尼納爾尼納爾尼納爾尼 。
millions of people were in severe need of help .	數百萬人都需要幫助 。
the u . n . wanted to rush people and supplies to the area .	聯合國想要把人民和供應給當地 。
but there were no maps , no maps of roads , no maps showing hospitals , no way for help to reach the cyclone victims .	但沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖顯示醫院 , 沒有任何地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖
when we look at a map of los angeles or london , it is hard to believe that as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geocodable level of detail .	當我們看到洛杉磯或倫敦的地圖時 , 很難相信2005年 , 世界上只有15%的地圖會被大量地描繪出來 。
the u . n . ran headfirst into a problem that the majority of the world's populous faces: not having detailed maps .	聯合國在世界各地的地圖上有許多問題:沒有細節的地圖 。
but help was coming .	但 , 協助來了 。
at google , 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120 , 000 kilometers of roads , 3 , 000 hospitals , logistics and relief points .	在google , 40位志工用一個新的軟體來繪製一萬三千公里的路、三千個醫院、邏輯和信息 。
and it took them four days .	花了四天 。
the new software they used ? google mapmaker .	他們用的新軟體嗎 ? google地圖製造 。
google mapmaker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally .	google地圖是一套科技 , 讓每個人都能在地圖上我們所知的地圖 。
people have used this software to map everything from roads to rivers , from schools to local businesses , and video stores to the corner store .	人們用這個軟體來繪製所有從路上傳送到商店的路線 , 從路到街道 , 到商店 , 到街區 。
nobel prize nominee hernando de soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land .	諾貝爾獎得主 , 諾貝爾獎得主 , 諾貝爾獎得主張地 , 大部分開發中國家 , 都要把大量的未經營地帶給大量 。
for example , a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapitalized in india alone .	舉例來說 , 一兆美元的土地產量 , 沒有在印度獨立 。
in the last year alone , thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information , and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable .	去年 , 上千個使用者在170個國家收集了數以千計的資料 , 創造出一張地圖 , 完全不明確的地圖 。
and this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere .	由於熱情使用者的力量 , 每一層都可以使用 。
let's look at some of the maps being created by users right now .	咱們來看看一些地圖是由使用者所創造的 。
so , as we speak , people are mapping the world in these 170 countries .	所以 , 當我們說話時 , 人們正在繪製世界 , 在170個國家中 。
you can see bridget in africa who just mapped a road in senegal .	你可以看到非洲的橋樑在塞內加爾的橋樑 。
and , closer to home , chalua , an n . g . road in bangalore .	更接近家鄉 , 盧安 , 加羅拉在孟加拉 。
this is the result of computational geometry , gesture recognition , and machine learning .	這就是計算幾何學的結果 , 機器學習 , 以及機器學習 。
this is a victory of thousands of users , in hundreds of cities , one user , one edit at a time .	這是數以百計的城市 , 一個使用者 , 一個使用者 , 一個編輯 。
this is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet .	這個邀請給我們地球上百分之七十的受邀 。
welcome to the new world .	歡迎來到新世界 。
in 2003 , the palestinian village of budrus mounted a 10monthlong nonviolent protest to stop a barrier being built across their olive groves . did you hear about it ? didn't think so . brazilian filmmaker julia bacha asks why we only pay attention to violence in the israelpalestine conflict and not to the nonviolent leaders who may one day bring peace .	2003年 , 巴西亞的巴西人問了為什麼我們只關注暴力抗議 , 阻止阻止障礙而非暴力的抗議阻止障礙 , 去阻止阻止障礙 , 而非暴力抗議 , 阻止阻止障礙而非暴力抗議 , 阻止阻止障礙 , 而不是那些非暴力的領袖 , 可以和平 。
arts , communication , compassion , entertainment , film , peace , violence , war	藝術、溝通、慈悲、娛樂、電影、和平、暴力、戰爭 。
julia bacha: pay attention to nonviolence	茱莉亞:注意非暴力 。
for the last 8 years , i have dedicated my life to documenting the work of israelis and palestinians who are trying to end the conflict using peaceful means .	在過去的8年裡 , 我已經把我的人生記錄為以色列和巴勒斯坦人試圖結束衝突和平的權利 。
when i travel with my work across europe and the united states , one question always comes up: where is the palestinian gandhi ?	當我在歐洲和美國旅行時 , 有一個問題總是出現:那是巴勒斯坦甘地嗎 ?
why aren't palestinians using nonviolent resistance ?	為什麼巴勒斯坦非暴力抗爭 ?
the challenge i face when i hear this question is that often i have just returned from the middle east where i spent my time filming dozens of palestinians who are using nonviolence to defend their lands and water resources from israeli soldiers and settlers .	當我聽到這個問題時 , 我所聽到的問題之一是 , 通常我剛從中東 , 我從中東拍攝數十個巴勒斯坦人 , 他們用非暴力的方式來保護他們的土地和水資源 , 用非暴力來防護他們的土地和水資源 , 用非暴力來防護他們的土地和水資源 。
these leaders are trying to forge a massive national nonviolent movement to end the occupation and build peace in the region .	這些領導者正在嘗試 , 讓大規模的國家非暴力運動最終佔領並建立和平 。
yet , most of you have probably never heard about them .	然而 , 大部分人可能都從來沒有聽過他們 。
this divide between what's happening on the ground and perceptions abroad is one of the key reasons why we don't have yet a palestinian peaceful resistance movement that has been successful .	這裡發生在地面和平的抗爭運動中 , 發生了什麼事 , 和平的抗爭是其中一個關鍵原因之一 。
so i'm here today to talk about the power of attention , the power of your attention , and the emergence and development of nonviolent movements in the west bank , gaza and elsewhere but today , my case study is going to be palestine .	所以今天我來談談注意力的力量 , 關注的力量 , 以及在西非暴力運動的力量 , 加薩和其他地方 , 但我現在的研究是巴勒斯坦 。
i believe that what's mostly missing for nonviolence to grow is not for palestinians to start adopting nonviolence , but for us to start paying attention to those who already are .	我相信 , 大規模的非暴力行為 , 不是巴勒斯坦人開始採用非暴力 , 但為了我們開始關注這些人 。
allow me to illustrate this point by taking you to this village called budrus .	讓我說明一下這個村莊 , 叫布德魯斯的村莊 。
about seven years ago , they faced extinction , because israel announced it would build a separation barrier , and part of this barrier would be built on top of the village .	大約七年前 , 他們面臨滅絕 , 因為以色列宣布 , 會建造一個隔離障礙 , 而在這座村莊的一部分 , 會建造一個隔離障礙 。
they would lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded , so they would lose free access to the rest of the west bank .	他們會失去40%的土地和被周圍 , 所以他們失去了40%的土地並被周圍 , 所以他們失去了40%的土地並被周圍圍繞 。
through inspired local leadership , they launched a peaceful resistance campaign to stop that from happening .	透過鼓舞當地領導力 , 他們發起了一個和平的抗議活動 , 來阻止這種事發生 。
let me show you some brief clips , so you have a sense for what that actually looked like on the ground .	讓我給你們看一些短片 , 讓你可以感覺一下 , 在地面上看起來是怎麼樣的 。
palestinian woman: we were told the wall would separate palestine from israel .	巴勒斯坦婦女:我們被告知牆會分開巴勒斯坦的女人 。
here in budrus , we realized the wall would steal our land .	在布魯斯 , 我們意識到牆會偷走我們的土地 。
israeli man: the fence has , in fact , created a solution to terror .	以色列人來說 , 事實上 , 創造了一個解決方案 。
man: today you're invited to a peaceful march .	男人:今天你受邀到一個和平的遊行 。
you are joined by dozens of your israeli brothers and sisters .	你被數十名以色列兄弟姐妹所加入的 。
israeli activist: nothing scares the army more than nonviolent opposition .	以色列行動主義者:比非暴力反對的軍隊更不暴力 。
woman: we saw the men trying to push the soldiers , but none of them could do that .	女人:我們看到男人試圖推出軍人 , 但沒有人能做到 。
but i think the girls could do it .	但我認為女孩們可以做到 。
fatah party member: we must empty our minds of traditional thinking .	fatah黨員:我們必須擁抱我們的傳統思維 。
hamas party member: we were in complete harmony , and we wanted to spread it to all of palestine .	哈瑪斯派對:我們是完全和諧的 , 我們想要把它帶到巴勒斯坦 。
chanting: one united nation .	協調:一個聯合國 。
fatah , hamas and the popular front !	fatah , 哈馬斯和普遍的前面 !
news anchor: the clashes over the fence continue .	新聞報導: 「 沿著管子持續下去 。 」
reporter: israeli border police were sent to disperse the crowd .	記者:以色列邊境警察被送去散播人群 。
they were allowed to use any force necessary .	他們被允許使用任何必要的力量 。
man: these are live bullets .	男子:這些是活著的彈子 。
it's like fallujah . shooting everywhere .	這就像布拉威 , 每次都在拍攝 。
israeli activist: i was sure we were all going to die .	以色列行動主義者:我肯定我們都死了 。
but there were others around me who weren't even cowering .	但在我身上 , 也有其他人 , 甚至還沒關心 。
israeli soldier: a nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear] .	以色列士兵:非暴力抗議不會阻止它 。
protester: this is a peaceful march .	主持人:這是和平的遊行 。
there is no need to use violence .	沒有需要使用暴力 。
chanting: we can do it ! we can do it !	聊天:我們能做到 ! 我們能做到 !
julia bacha: when i first heard about the story of budrus , i was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago , in 2003 .	朱利亞•巴基:當我第一次聽到關於布德魯斯的故事 , 我很驚訝 , 在2003年 , 國際媒體已經失敗了 , 到布德魯斯的事件發生了很大的事件 。
what was even more surprising was the fact that budrus was successful .	更令人驚訝的是布德魯斯成功了 。
the residents , after 10 months of peaceful resistance , convinced the israeli government to move the route of the barrier off their lands and to the green line , which is the internationally recognized boundary between israel and the palestinian territories .	居民 , 數十個月後 , 以色列和巴勒斯坦之間 , 以色列和巴勒斯坦之間的區分 , 以以色列和巴勒斯坦之間的區分 , 以色列與巴勒斯坦之間的距離 。
the resistance in budrus has since spread to villages across the west bank and to palestinian neighborhoods in jerusalem .	巴勒斯坦的社區在耶路撒冷的抗爭中 , 巴勒斯坦的社區在耶路撒冷 。
yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories .	但媒體仍然對這些故事感到沉默 。
this silence carries profound consequences for the likelihood that nonviolence can grow , or even survive , in palestine .	這種沉默會造成深刻的後果 , 不管在巴勒斯坦有沒有暴力的可能性 , 或甚至存活在巴勒斯坦 。
violent resistance and nonviolent resistance share one very important thing in common ; they are both a form of theater seeking an audience to their cause .	暴力抗拒和非暴力抗爭 , 都是一種戲劇的形式 , 讓觀眾能對他們造成的影響 。
if violent actors are the only ones constantly getting frontpage covers and attracting international attention to the palestinian issue , it becomes very hard for nonviolent leaders to make the case to their communities that civil disobedience is a viable option in addressing their plight .	如果暴力的演員是唯一一個能夠成功的機會 , 讓非暴力的政策者 , 會變得非常困難 , 非暴力的領導者 , 會對巴勒斯坦問題感到非常困難 , 沒有暴力的領導者會讓他們在巴勒斯坦的議題上變得非常困難 , 不讓非暴力者 , 會變成非常困難 , 非暴力的領導者 , 會讓它變成非常困難的 , 非暴力的領導者 , 會讓它變成非常困難的 , 非暴力的領導者 , 會讓它們的團體變成非常困難的非暴力者 。
the power of attention is probably going to come as no surprise to the parents in the room .	注意力的注意力可能會在房間裡不陌生 。
the surest way to make your child throw increasingly louder tantrums is by giving him attention the first time he throws a fit .	要讓孩子變得更大膽 , 要讓孩子變得更大 , 讓孩子變得更大膽 , 讓孩子變得更大 , 讓孩子變得更大 。
the tantrum will become what childhood psychologists call a functional behavior , since the child has learned that he can get parental attention out of it .	童年心理學家稱之為功能性行為 , 因為孩子已經學會兒童心理學家稱之為功能性行為 , 因為孩子已經知道他能得到父母的關注 。
parents can incentivize or disincentivize behavior simply by giving or withdrawing attention to their children .	父母可以鼓勵或把注意力放在他們的孩子身上 。
but that's true for adults too .	但對成年人來說也是如此 。
in fact , the behavior of entire communities and countries can be influenced , depending on where the international community chooses to focus its attention .	事實上 , 整個社區的行為和國家都可以受到影響 , 依靠國際社群選擇聚焦注意力 。
i believe that at the core of ending the conflict in the middle east and bringing peace is for us to transform nonviolence into a functional behavior by giving a lot more attention to the nonviolent leaders on the ground today .	我相信 , 在中東和平 , 要讓非暴力的領導者能夠改變非暴力行為 , 讓非暴力行為更加關注到現今的非暴力行為 。
in the course of taking my film to villages in the west bank , in gaza and in east jerusalem , i have seen the impact that even one documentary film can have in influencing the transformation .	在加薩和東耶路撒冷的村莊裡 , 我看到了影響 , 甚至一部紀錄片能影響到它的轉變 。
in a village called wallajeh , which sits very close to jerusalem , the community was facing a very similar plight to budrus .	在一個叫做瓦拉威的村落裡 , 社區正面臨著非常類似的波拉布德魯士 。
they were going to be surrounded , lose a lot of their lands and not have freedom of access , either to the west bank or jerusalem .	他們會被圍繞著 , 失去了許多土地 , 沒有自由取得權利 , 像是西岸或耶路撒冷 。
they had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention .	他們一直在使用非暴力行為 , 兩年來 , 但從沒人注意到 , 他們已經開始使用非暴力 。
so we organized a screening .	所以我們組織了螢幕 。
a week later , they held the most wellattended and disciplined demonstration to date .	一週後 , 他們會說出最好的示範 , 和現代的示範 。
the organizers say that the villagers , upon seeing the story of budrus documented in a film , felt that there were indeed people following what they were doing , that people cared .	組織者說 , 村民們在電影裡看到了布達德魯斯的文件 , 認為 , 人們會追蹤他們在做的事 , 人們會關心 。
so they kept on going .	所以他們繼續下去 。
on the israeli side , there is a new peace movement called solidariot , which means solidarity in hebrew .	以色列為索利亞里特 , 這位是伊斯蘭國的新和平運動 , 叫做孤立 , 和平運動叫做slidariot , 代表團結團結合 。
the leaders of this movement have been using budrus as one of their primary recruiting tools .	這種運動的領導者已經使用布德魯士 , 作為他們主要的指導工具之一 。
they report that israelis who had never been active before , upon seeing the film , understand the power of nonviolence and start joining their activities .	他們報導了非暴力人士開始加入他們的活動 , 了解非暴力的力量開始加入他們的活動 。
the examples of wallajeh and the solidariot movement show that even a smallbudget independent film can play a role in transforming nonviolence into a functional behavior .	巴哈和伊斯蘭德的例子 , 即便是獨立電影可以扮演一個角色 , 改變非暴力行為 , 變成一個功能行為 。
now imagine the power that big media players could have if they started covering the weekly nonviolent demonstrations happening in villages like bil'in , ni'lin , wallajeh , in jerusalem neighborhoods like sheikh jarrah and silwan the nonviolent leaders would become more visible , valued and effective in their work .	現在 , 想像一下 , 媒體玩家的力量會變得更明顯、有價值觀、有效率 , 並在他們的作品中 , 比如伊斯蘭、巴爾斯坦、伊斯蘭、巴爾斯坦 , 伊斯蘭國的非暴力領導者會變得更明顯、更有價值 , 且有效果 。
i believe that the most important thing is to understand that if we don't pay attention to these efforts , they are invisible , and it's as if they never happened .	我相信最重要的事情是要了解如果我們不關注這些努力 , 他們就隱形了 , 就像他們從未發生過一樣 。
but i have seen first hand that if we do , they will multiply .	但 , 我先舉手 , 若我們這麼做 , 他們會多重 。
if they multiply , their influence will grow in the overall israelipalestinian conflict .	如果他們多大 , 他們的影響會成長在巴勒斯坦的衝突中 。
and theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation .	他們的影響力可以終於阻擋這個情況 。
these leaders have proven that nonviolence works in places like budrus .	這些領導者證明非暴力工作就像布德魯斯一樣 。
let's give them attention so they can prove it works everywhere .	咱們來讓他們注意力 , 讓他們能證明它在任何地方都能成功 。
simon sinek has a simple but powerful model for inspirational leadership all starting with a golden circle and the question " why ? " his examples include apple , martin luther king , and the wright brothers . . .	西蒙沙克有個很簡單又強大的模型 , 鼓舞人心的領導力 , 包括蘋果、馬丁•路德金、馬丁•路德•金恩 , 和他的例子 , 包括蘋果、馬丁路德金、馬丁路德金 。
bullseye , business , entrepreneur , leadership , sales , selling , success	貝殼、商業、企業、領導力、銷售、成功 。
simon sinek: how great leaders inspire action	西蒙•沙克:偉大的領導者鼓舞人心 。
how do you explain when things don't go as we assume ?	你要如何解釋當事情不像我們假設的那樣 ?
or better , how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions ?	或者 , 更好的是 , 你要如何解釋 , 當其他人能夠達成這些東西時 , 似乎都無法達成什麼樣的感覺 ?
for example: why is apple so innovative ?	舉例來說 , 為什麼蘋果這麼創新 ?
year after year , after year , after year , they're more innovative than all their competition .	一年後 , 一年後 , 他們比所有競爭都更創新 。
and yet , they're just a computer company .	然而 , 他們只是一台電腦公司 。
they're just like everyone else .	他們就像其他人一樣 。
they have the same access to the same talent , the same agencies , the same consultants , the same media .	他們有相同的能力 , 相同的資料 , 同一間公司 , 同一家公司 , 同一部公司 。
then why is it that they seem to have something different ?	為什麼他們似乎有不同的東西 ?
why is it that martin luther king led the civil rights movement ?	為什麼馬丁路德•金恩領民權運動 ?
he wasn't the only man who suffered in a precivil rights america , and he certainly wasn't the only great orator of the day .	他不是唯一的美國人 , 他肯定不是唯一的受害者 , 而他肯定不是唯一的男人 。
and why is it that the wright brothers were able to figure out controlled , powered man flight when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified , better funded . . .	為什麼 , 萊特兄弟可以找出控制權力 , 控制權力的人 , 在某些其他的團隊中 , 更好的資金是: 「 權力飛行 。 」
and they didn't achieve powered man flight , and the wright brothers beat them to it .	他們沒有成人飛行 , 萊兄弟打敗他們 。
there's something else at play here .	這裡還有其他的東西 。
about three and a half years ago i made a discovery .	大約三年半前我做了一個發現 。
and this discovery profoundly changed my view on how i thought the world worked , and it even profoundly changed the way in which i operate in it .	這個發現深深地改變了我對世界運作的方式 , 甚至深深地改變了我的觀點 。
as it turns out , there's a pattern .	結果發現 , 有一種模式 。
as it turns out , all the great and inspiring leaders and organizations in the world whether it's apple or martin luther king or the wright brothers they all think , act and communicate the exact same way .	結果發現 , 所有偉大且鼓舞人心的領袖和組織 , 不管是蘋果或馬丁路德金 , 或是馬丁路德•金恩或馬丁路德金 , 他們都認為 , 行為和溝通的方式 。
and it's the complete opposite to everyone else .	這完全相反對其他人 。
all i did was codify it , and it's probably the world's simplest idea .	我所做的就是把這個世界最簡單的想法 。
i call it the golden circle .	我稱它為黃金圈 。
why ? how ? what ?	為什麼 ? 怎麼樣 ?
this little idea explains why some organizations and some leaders are able to inspire where others aren't .	這個小點子解釋了為什麼有些組織和一些領導者能夠鼓舞其他人 , 卻沒有 。
let me define the terms really quickly .	讓我定義一下很快的說法 。
every single person , every single organization on the planet knows what they do , 100 percent .	地球上的每一個組織 , 都知道他們所做的 , 或100% 。
some know how they do it , whether you call it your differentiated value proposition or your proprietary process or your usp .	有些人知道他們怎麼做 , 不論你是否稱它為 「 不論你是否稱之為你的分配式的價值觀點 , 或你所謂的不論你是如何運作的 。 」
but very , very few people or organizations know why they do what they do .	但 , 非常少人或組織知道他們為何做這些事 。
and by " why " i don't mean " to make a profit . "	由於 「 為什麼 」 我並不表示 「 為何 」 做利益 。
that's a result . it's always a result .	這是結果的結果 , 結果總是會結果 。
by " why , " i mean: what's your purpose ?	「 為什麼 」 , 我的意思是:你的目的是什麼 ?
what's your cause ? what's your belief ?	你的信念是什麼 ? 你的信念是什麼 ?
why does your organization exist ?	為什麼你的組織存在 ?
why do you get out of bed in the morning ?	為什麼你早上起床 ?
and why should anyone care ?	為什麼每個人都關心 ?
well , as a result , the way we think , the way we act , the way we communicate is from the outside in .	結果 , 我們的思考方式 , 我們的行為方式 , 溝通的方式是從外面來 。
it's obvious . we go from the clearest thing to the fuzziest thing .	很明顯的 , 我們從最明顯的事物中從最明顯的到最明顯的地方 。
but the inspired leaders and the inspired organizations regardless of their size , regardless of their industry all think , act and communicate from the inside out .	但激勵領袖和鼓舞人士 , 不管他們的產業 , 都認為 , 和鼓舞的組織 , 不管他們的產業 , 都認為 , 和鼓舞的組織 , 不管他們的產業都一樣 。
let me give you an example .	讓我舉個例子 。
i use apple because they're easy to understand and everybody gets it .	我用蘋果 , 因為他們很容易理解 , 每個人都得到它 。
if apple were like everyone else , a marketing message from them might sound like this: " we make great computers .	如果蘋果和其他人一樣 , 會聽到這樣的聲音: 「 我們做出很棒的電腦 。
they're beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	它們是美麗的設計 , 簡單使用和使用者 。
want to buy one ? " " meh . "	想買一台嗎 ? " 啊 ! "
and that's how most of us communicate .	這就是我們大多數人溝通的方式 。
that's how most marketing is done , that's how most sales is done and that's how most of us communicate interpersonally .	這是多數的銷售量 , 最重要的是 , 銷售量是如此 , 最多人是這樣做的 , 大部分人都這樣做 。
we say what we do , we say how we're different or how we're better and we expect some sort of a behavior , a purchase , a vote , something like that .	我們說 , 我們怎麼做 , 或我們如何做得更好 , 我們會說 , 我們是怎麼做的 , 或我們如何做得更好 , 我們會說 , 我們是怎樣的 , 或我們如何做得更好 , 我們會說我們是怎麼做的 , 或如何做得更好 。
here's our new law firm: we have the best lawyers with the biggest clients , we always perform for our clients who do business with us .	這是我們的新法律公司:我們有最好的律師 , 最好的律師 , 我們總是為我們的客戶做事業 。
here's our new car: it gets great gas mileage , it has leather seats , buy our car .	這是我們的新車:它有較高的氣體 , 可以有較高的氣體 , 也有更好的氣體 , 可以有更好的氣體 。
here's how apple actually communicates .	這就是蘋果的溝通方式 。
" everything we do , we believe in challenging the status quo .	「 我們所做的一切 , 我們相信挑戰現況 。
we believe in thinking differently .	我們相信不同的思維 。
the way we challenge the status quo is by making our products beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	我們挑戰現狀的方式是讓我們的產品美麗設計、簡單使用和使用者友善 。
we just happen to make great computers .	我們剛剛做好的電腦 。
want to buy one ? "	想買一個嗎 ? 」
totally different right ? you're ready to buy a computer from me .	完全不同 。 你準備好要買一台電腦 。
all i did was reverse the order of the information .	我所做的就是逆轉這些資訊的秩序 。
what it proves to us is that people don't buy what you do ; people buy why you do it .	它證明我們是人們不買你做的事 , 人們買了你做的事 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做的事 , 他們買了你做的事 。
this explains why every single person in this room is perfectly comfortable buying a computer from apple .	這解釋為何在這個房間裡的每個人都非常舒服購買一台電腦 。
but we're also perfectly comfortable buying an mp3 player from apple , or a phone from apple , or a dvr from apple .	但是我們也非常舒適地購買一個來自蘋果電腦的手機 , 或來自蘋果的手機 , 或是來自蘋果的手機 。
but , as i said before , apple's just a computer company .	但 , 如同我之前說的 , 蘋果只是一台電腦公司 。
there's nothing that distinguishes them structurally from any of their competitors .	沒有任何一個競爭對手的競爭 。
their competitors are all equally qualified to make all of these products .	他們的競爭者完全同樣品質化製造這些產品 。
in fact , they tried .	事實上 , 他們試試了 。
a few years ago , gateway came out with flat screen tvs .	幾年前 , 高速公路發出了flatvs 。
they're eminently qualified to make flat screen tvs .	他們很有用平面的螢幕電視 。
they've been making flat screen monitors for years .	幾年來 , 他們都在製作平面螢幕 。
dell came out with mp3 players and pdas , and they make great quality products , and they can make perfectly welldesigned products and nobody bought one .	迪爾出了3個玩家和pdas , 他們做了很棒的品質產品 , 他們做出很好的品質產品 , 且他們做出完美的產品 , 卻沒有人買 。
in fact , talking about it now , we can't even imagine buying an mp3 player from dell .	事實上 , 談到現在 , 我們甚至無法想像購買一個mp3球員 。
why would you buy an mp3 player from a computer company ?	為什麼你會買一台電腦公司的一台電腦公司 ?
but we do it every day .	但我們每天都這麼做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做的事 , 他們買了你做的事 。
the goal is not to do business with everybody who needs what you have .	目標並不是要和所有需要你有的人做事業 。
the goal is to do business with people who believe what you believe .	目標是要和那些相信你相信的人做事業 。
here's the best part: none of what i'm telling you is my opinion .	最好的部分:我沒有告訴你們我的意見 。
it's all grounded in the tenets of biology .	它是生物學的基礎 。
not psychology , biology .	不是心理學 , 生物學 。
if you look at a crosssection of the human brain , looking from the top down , what you see is the human brain is actually broken into three major components that correlate perfectly with the golden circle .	如果你看一下人類的大腦 , 從頭部看 , 你看到的就是人類大腦實際上被破碎成三個主要的零件 , 和黃金圓圈一樣 。
our newest brain , our homo sapien brain , our neocortex , corresponds with the " what " level .	我們最新的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的新大腦 ,
the neocortex is responsible for all of our rational and analytical thought and language .	新皮層負責我們所有的理性、分析思想和語言 。
the middle two sections make up our limbic brains , and our limbic brains are responsible for all of our feelings , like trust and loyalty .	中間兩個區塊會讓我們的大腦負責 , 我們的肢體大腦負責所有我們的感覺 , 像是信任和忠誠 。
it's also responsible for all human behavior , all decisionmaking , and it has no capacity for language .	它也負責人類行為、決策 , 且沒有能力語言的能力 。
in other words , when we communicate from the outside in , yes , people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features and benefits and facts and figures .	換句話說 , 當我們從外面交流時 , 是的 , 人們可以理解大量複雜的資訊 , 比如特徵、有利、事實和事實 。
it just doesn't drive behavior .	它不會驅動行為 。
when we can communicate from the inside out , we're talking directly to the part of the brain that controls behavior , and then we allow people to rationalize it with the tangible things we say and do .	當我們從內部交流 , 我們會直接告訴大腦控制行為的一部分 , 然後讓人們可以用我們所說的做法和做法來處理行為 。
this is where gut decisions come from .	這是腸道所做的決定 。
you know , sometimes you can give somebody all the facts and figures , and they say , " i know what all the facts and details say , but it just doesn't feel right . "	你知道 , 有時候你可以給人一些事實和細節 , 說: 「 我知道所有事實和細節 , 都說: 「 我知道所有事實和細節都說 , 但它並不感覺 。 」
why would we use that verb , it doesn't " feel " right ?	為什麼我們會使用這種動詞 , 不會覺得 「 感覺 」 是的 ?
because the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking doesn't control language .	因為大腦的一部分 , 控制語言並不控制語言 。
and the best we can muster up is , " i don't know . it just doesn't feel right . "	最好的辦法是: 「 我不知道 , 感覺不好 。 」
or sometimes you say you're leading with your heart , or you're leading with your soul .	有時你會說你是你的心臟 , 或是你會帶領你的心靈魂 。
well , i hate to break it to you , those aren't other body parts controlling your behavior .	嗯 , 我討厭去打破你們 , 那些不是其他身體的部分控制你的行為 。
it's all happening here in your limbic brain , the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking and not language .	這一切都在你的肢體大腦中 , 大腦控制決策和非語言的大腦 。
but if you don't know why you do what you do , and people respond to why you do what you do , then how will you ever get people to vote for you , or buy something from you , or , more importantly , be loyal and want to be a part of what it is that you do .	但如果你不知道為什麼你做這樣的事 , 而人們會去投票給你 , 或者 , 更重要的是 , 忠誠 , 想要成為你所做的事 。
again , the goal is not just to sell to people who need what you have ; the goal is to sell to people who believe what you believe .	再次 , 目標不僅僅是賣給那些需要你的人 , 目標是賣給那些相信你所相信的人 。
the goal is not just to hire people who need a job ; it's to hire people who believe what you believe .	目標不僅僅是雇用工作的人 , 而是要僱用那些相信你相信的人 。
i always say that , you know , if you hire people just because they can do a job , they'll work for your money , but if you hire people who believe what you believe , they'll work for you with blood and sweat and tears .	我總是說 , 你知道的 , 如果你僱用那些相信你相信的人 , 他們會為你的錢做工作 , 但如果你僱用那些相信你所相信的人 , 他們會為你工作 , 為你的錢而戰 , 但如果你雇用人 , 他們會為你的錢而工作 。
and nowhere else is there a better example of this than with the wright brothers .	另外還有一個更好的例子 , 比萊兄弟更好 。
most people don't know about samuel pierpont langley .	大多數人不知道samuelpontlangley 。
and back in the early 20th century , the pursuit of powered man flight was like the dot com of the day .	在二十世紀初期 , 電力飛行者的追求力力飛行就像是今日的旅行 。
everybody was trying it .	每個人都在嘗試它 。
and samuel pierpont langley had , what we assume , to be the recipe for success .	samuelpierpontlangley , 我們假設的 , 是成功的基礎 。
i mean , even now , you ask people , " why did your product or why did your company fail ? "	我的意思是 , 甚至現在 , 你問人們: 「 為什麼你的公司失敗了 ? 」
and people always give you the same permutation of the same three things: undercapitalized , the wrong people , bad market conditions .	人們總是給你相同的三件事:受試者、錯人、壞市場條件 。
it's always the same three things , so let's explore that .	一直都是相同的三件事 , 讓我們來探索 。
samuel pierpont langley was given 50 , 000 dollars by the war department to figure out this flying machine .	samuelpierpontlangley已經5萬美金 , 把這台飛機運送了 。
money was no problem .	錢沒有問題 。
he held a seat at harvard and worked at the smithsonian and was extremely wellconnected ; he knew all the big minds of the day .	他在smithsmithsmithsmithsmithsmithsmithsmithsmithsonian工作 , 他知道所有偉大的思想 。
he hired the best minds money could find and the market conditions were fantastic .	他僱用了最好的心智金錢可以找到和市場條件很棒
the new york times followed him around everywhere , and everyone was rooting for langley .	紐約時報追蹤了他 , 每個地方都有人 , 都是根深蒂固 。
then how come we've never heard of samuel pierpont langley ?	我們從來沒有聽過samuelpontlangley ?
a few hundred miles away in dayton ohio , orville and wilbur wright , they had none of what we consider to be the recipe for success .	幾百英里遠 , 在華盛頓俄亥俄州 , 俄亥俄州 , 俄亥俄州 , 我們認為是成功的基礎 。
they had no money ; they paid for their dream with the proceeds from their bicycle shop ; not a single person on the wright brothers' team had a college education , not even orville or wilbur ; and the new york times followed them around nowhere .	他們沒有錢 , 沒有錢 , 他們付錢給他們的夢想 , 來自自行車店 ; 而紐約時報 , 沒有一個人在萊布羅大學的教育 , 不管是波爾堡 , 還沒有錢 。
the difference was , orville and wilbur were driven by a cause , by a purpose , by a belief .	差異是 , 維爾和威爾巴爾是由一個信念所驅動的 , 由於一個信念 。
they believed that if they could figure out this flying machine , it'll change the course of the world .	他們相信如果他們能找出這個飛行機器 , 它會改變世界的一面 。
samuel pierpont langley was different .	samuelpontlangley是不同的 。
he wanted to be rich , and he wanted to be famous .	他想要有錢 , 他想要有名 。
he was in pursuit of the result .	他在追尋結果 。
he was in pursuit of the riches .	他在追求富裕 。
and lo and behold , look what happened .	瞧瞧 , 發生了什麼事 。
the people who believed in the wright brothers' dream worked with them with blood and sweat and tears .	相信萊特兄弟的夢想與他們有血液、汗水和淚水 。
the others just worked for the paycheck .	其他人則是為了支票而做 。
and they tell stories of how every time the wright brothers went out , they would have to take five sets of parts , because that's how many times they would crash before they came in for supper .	他們說 , 每次萊兄弟出去時 , 他們就要花五個組件 , 因為那就是他們花了五組成就 , 因為那就是他們要花五個組成的部分 。
and , eventually , on december 17th , 1903 , the wright brothers took flight , and no one was there to even experience it .	最終 , 在12月17日1903年12月17日 , 萊兄弟飛行 , 沒有人會去體驗它 。
we found out about it a few days later .	我們發現了幾天後 。
and further proof that langley was motivated by the wrong thing: the day the wright brothers took flight , he quit .	更進一步的證據證明 , 萊恩是錯的:那天天敵兄弟飛行了 , 他辭掉了 。
he could have said , " that's an amazing discovery , guys , and i will improve upon your technology , " but he didn't .	他可以說: 「 那是個很驚人的發現 , 我會改善你的技術 , 」 但他沒有 。
he wasn't first , he didn't get rich , he didn't get famous so he quit .	首先 , 他沒有有錢 , 他沒有有名所以他辭去了 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做的事 , 他們買了你做的事 。
and if you talk about what you believe , you will attract those who believe what you believe .	如果你談到你相信的 , 你就會吸引那些相信你相信的人 。
but why is it important to attract those who believe what you believe ?	但為什麼要吸引那些相信你相信的人呢 ?
something called the law of diffusion of innovation , and if you don't know the law , you definitely know the terminology .	一種叫做 「 法律 」 的法律 , 如果你不知道法律 , 你絕對知道這個詞 。
the first two and a half percent of our population are our innovators .	第一個2.5%的人口就是我們的創新者 。
the next 13 and a half percent of our population are our early adopters .	接下來的13.5%人口是我們早期的採用者 。
the next 34 percent are your early majority , your late majority and your laggards .	接下來的34%是你的早期主要 , 你的大部份和你的早期 。
the only reason these people buy touch tone phones is because you can't buy rotary phones anymore .	人們買到手機的唯一理由是 , 因為你不能買到手機 。
we all sit at various places at various times on this scale , but what the law of diffusion of innovation tells us is that if you want massmarket success or massmarket acceptance of an idea , you cannot have it until you achieve this tipping point between 15 and 18 percent market penetration , and then the system tips .	我們都坐在各式各樣的領域中 , 儘管如此 , 創新告訴我們 , 如果你想要大規模市場的執行 , 或大規模市場的執行 , 你就無法做到這一點 , 直到你達成了18%的市場投入 , 最後 , 整個系統就會出現 。
and i love asking businesses , " what's your conversion on new business ? "	我很喜歡問企業: 「 你對新商業的反應是什麼 ? 」
and they love to tell you , " oh , it's about 10 percent , " proudly .	他們很喜歡告訴你們: 「 喔 , 大概10% 。 」
well , you can trip over 10 percent of the customers .	嗯 , 你可以試驗超過10%的客戶 。
we all have about 10 percent who just " get it . "	我們都只有10%的人會說 「 得到 」 。
that's how we describe them , right ?	這就是我們描述它們的方式 , 對吧 ?
that's like that gut feeling , " oh , they just get it . "	那就像是腸道的感覺: 「 喔 , 他們就這樣做 。 」
the problem is: how do you find the ones that get it before you're doing business with them versus the ones who don't get it ?	問題是:你在做商業之前 , 和那些沒有人做事業的人 , 會有什麼樣的感覺 ?
so it's this here , this little gap that you have to close , as jeffrey moore calls it , " crossing the chasm " because , you see , the early majority will not try something until someone else has tried it first .	所以 , 在這裡 , 這個小小的差距 , 如傑佛瑞•摩爾所謂的 「 破壞 」 , 因為 , 你看到 , 最早的大部份不會嘗試 , 直到有人嘗試過它 。
and these guys , the innovators and the early adopters , they're comfortable making those gut decisions .	這些人 , 創新者和早期的採取者 , 他們很舒適地做出這些決策 。
they're more comfortable making those intuitive decisions that are driven by what they believe about the world and not just what product is available .	他們更舒適地做出那些直覺決策他們相信世界 , 而不只是產品的產品
these are the people who stood in line for six hours to buy an iphone when they first came out , when you could have just walked into the store the next week and bought one off the shelf .	這些人站在六個小時購買iphone , 當他們第一次出櫃時 , 只要走進商店 , 就可以買一台iphone , 然後買了一台iphone 。
these are the people who spent 40 , 000 dollars on flat screen tvs when they first came out , even though the technology was substandard .	這些人花了四萬美金在平面螢幕電視上 , 即便當他們第一次出席時 , 甚至是科技的品質 。
and , by the way , they didn't do it because the technology was so great ; they did it for themselves .	順便一提 , 他們沒有這麼做 , 因為科技很棒 , 他們自己也做得到 。
it's because they wanted to be first .	因為他們想要成為第一個 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it and what you do simply proves what you believe .	人們不買你所做的事 , 去買你做的事 , 以及你所做的事 , 為你所做的事 。
in fact , people will do the things that prove what they believe .	事實上 , 人們會做些事情證明他們相信什麼 。
the reason that person bought the iphone in the first six hours , stood in line for six hours , was because of what they believed about the world , and how they wanted everybody to see them: they were first .	有人買了iphone在六小時之內 , 是因為他們所相信的世界 , 以及他們想要如何看待他們:他們是第一個 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做的事 , 他們買了你做的事 。
so let me give you a famous example , a famous failure and a famous success of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我給你們一個有名的例子 , 一個有名的例子 , 一個有名的失敗 , 有著名的成功 。
first , the famous failure .	首先 , 有名的失敗 。
it's a commercial example .	這是一個商業的例子 。
as we said before , a second ago , the recipe for success is money and the right people and the right market conditions , right ? you should have success then .	正如我們之前所說的 , 成功是金錢和權利市場條件 , 對嗎 ? 你應該成功 。
from the time tivo came out about eight or nine years ago to this current day , they are the single highestquality product on the market , hands down , there is no dispute .	從19年前到19年前 , 到目前為止 , 他們是市場上最高品質的產品 , 沒錯 。
they were extremely wellfunded .	他們非常受歡迎 。
market conditions were fantastic .	市場條件很棒 。
i mean , we use tivo as verb .	我是說 , 我們用 「 反彈 」 的詞 。
i tivo stuff on my piece of junk time warner dvr all the time .	我把東西放在我的垃圾桶裡 , 時間華納dvr 。
but tivo's a commercial failure .	但tivo是一個商業失敗 。
they've never made money .	他們從來沒有賺錢 。
and when they went ipo , their stock was at about 30 or 40 dollars and then plummeted , and it's never traded above 10 .	當他們到ipo時 , 股票大約30到40美金 , 然後就被賣掉 , 結果是30到40美元 , 而且從來沒有被販賣過 。
in fact , i don't think it's even traded above six , except for a couple of little spikes .	事實上 , 我不認為它甚至是超過六個 , 除了幾個小的案例上 。
because you see , when tivo launched their product they told us all what they had .	因為你看到 , 當tivo發出他們的產品他們告訴我們他們所擁有的一切
they said , " we have a product that pauses live tv , skips commercials , rewinds live tv and memorizes your viewing habits without you even asking . "	他們說: 「 我們有一個產品 , 暫停生活電視 , 錄製電視 , 記住電視 , 記住電視 , 記住電視 , 記住你的觀看習慣 , 沒有你問 。 」
and the cynical majority said , " we don't believe you .	古典的主人說: 「 我們不相信你 。
we don't need it . we don't like it .	我們不需要它 , 我們不需要它 。
you're scaring us . "	你害怕我們 。 」
what if they had said , " if you're the kind of person who likes to have total control over every aspect of your life , boy , do we have a product for you .	如果他們說: 「 如果你是這樣的人 , 無論你生活中的每個人 , 都能對你的人生有所貢獻 , 男孩 , 我們有產品給你 。
it pauses live tv , skips commercials , memorizes your viewing habits , etc . , etc . "	它暫停生活電視 , 滑行 , 記住電視 , 記住電視 , 記住電視 , 記住電視 , 記住電視 , 等等 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it , and what you do simply serves as the proof of what you believe .	人們不買你做的事 , 為你所做的事 , 為你所做的事 , 為你所做的事而做的事 。
now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation .	現在讓我給你們一個成功的例子 , 說明創新的例子 。
in the summer of 1963 , 250 , 000 people showed up on the mall in washington to hear dr . king speak .	1963年夏天 , 有25000人在華盛頓特區去聽見金恩博士演講 。
they sent out no invitations , and there was no website to check the date .	他們寄出沒有邀請 , 沒有網站去檢查約會 。
how do you do that ?	你該怎麼做呢 ?
well , dr . king wasn't the only man in america who was a great orator .	嗯 , 金恩博士並不是美國唯一一個偉大的人 。
he wasn't the only man in america who suffered in a precivil rights america .	他不是唯一在美國受苦的人 。
in fact , some of his ideas were bad .	事實上 , 他的一些想法很糟 。
but he had a gift .	但他有禮物 。
he didn't go around telling people what needed to change in america .	他沒有告訴人們需要改變美國 。
he went around and told people what he believed .	他走過來告訴別人他相信的 。
" i believe , i believe , i believe , " he told people .	我相信: 「 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 。 」
and people who believed what he believed took his cause , and they made it their own , and they told people .	相信他所相信的人 , 相信他所相信的原因 , 他們做出了自己 , 而且他們也被告知了 。
and some of those people created structures to get the word out to even more people .	有些那些人創造了結構 , 讓這個字變得更加人人 。
and lo and behold , 250 , 000 people showed up on the right day at the right time to hear him speak .	沒錯 , 有250 , 000人在右邊的時間聽他說話 。
how many of them showed up for him ?	有多少人給他看 ?
they showed up for themselves .	他們展現自己 。
it's what they believed about america that got them to travel in a bus for eight hours to stand in the sun in washington in the middle of august .	他們相信美國 , 讓他們在八小時站在8個小時站在8個小時站在8個小時站在華盛頓的美國 。
it's what they believed , and it wasn't about black versus white: 25 percent of the audience was white .	這是他們所相信的 , 而不是黑人的白人:25%的觀眾是白人 。
dr . king believed that there are two types of laws in this world: those that are made by a higher authority and those that are made by man .	金恩博士相信在這個世界中有兩種法律:那些是由一個較高權威的權威所組成的 。
and not until all the laws that are made by man are consistent with the laws that are made by the higher authority will we live in a just world .	直到所有法律都由我們所擁有的法律所組成的法律 , 由我們所居住的法律所組成的法律 。
it just so happened that the civil rights movement was the perfect thing to help him bring his cause to life .	民權運動是完美的 , 幫助他帶來他帶來生命的原因 。
we followed , not for him , but for ourselves .	我們追求他 , 不是為了他 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and , by the way , he gave the " i have a dream " speech , not the " i have a plan " speech .	順便說一下 , 他給了我一個 「 我有一個夢想 」 演講 , 而不是 「 我有一個夢想 」 的演講 。
listen to politicians now , with their comprehensive 12point plans .	現在 , 聽政治人物 , 他們的12point計畫 。
they're not inspiring anybody .	他們並不激勵任何人 。
because there are leaders and there are those who lead .	因為有領導者 , 也有領導者 。
leaders hold a position of power or authority , but those who lead inspire us .	領導者有權力或權力的權力 , 但那些領導人會鼓舞我們 。
whether they're individuals or organizations , we follow those who lead , not because we have to , but because we want to .	不論是個人或組織 , 我們追蹤那些領導的人 , 不是因為我們想要 。
we follow those who lead , not for them , but for ourselves .	我們追蹤那些領導的人 , 不是為了他們 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and it's those who start with " why " that have the ability to inspire those around them or find others who inspire them .	這些人是從 「 為何 」 的能力來啟發他們 , 來鼓舞他們的人 , 或找到其他人鼓舞他們 。
how do you remember where you parked your car ? how do you know if you're moving in the right direction ? neuroscientist neil burgess studies the neural mechanisms that map the space around us , and how they link to memory and imagination .	你要怎麼記得你停車在哪裡 ? 你怎麼知道你在哪裡 ? 怎麼知道你在哪裡 ? 神經學家尼爾•巴格斯研究神經元素 , 把你的車子放在正確的方向 , 神經學家尼爾•巴格斯研究我們周圍的神經元素 , 以及它們如何連結記憶和想像力 。
brain , cognitive science , exploration , neuroscience , science	大腦、認知科學、探索、神經科學、探索、神經科學 。
neil burgess: how your brain tells you where you are	尼爾•布吉斯:你的大腦如何告訴你你在哪裡 。
when we park in a big parking lot , how do we remember where we parked our car ?	當我們公開車子時 , 我們要如何記得我們停車在哪裡 ?
here's the problem facing homer .	這裡有個問題面向家人 。
and we're going to try to understand what's happening in his brain .	我們會試著了解他的大腦發生了什麼事 。
so we'll start with the hippocampus , shown in yellow , which is the organ of memory .	我們從海馬體開始 , 在黃色 , 這是記憶的器官 。
if you have damage there , like in alzheimer's , you can't remember things including where you parked your car .	如果你在阿茲海默症的傷害 , 除了你停車的位置 , 你就無法記住 。
it's named after latin for " seahorse , " which it resembles .	在拉丁文 「 海馬 」 的名字後 , 它的名字是 「 海馬 」 。
and like the rest of the brain , it's made of neurons .	和其他大腦一樣 , 它是由神經元組成的 。
so the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it .	人類的大腦有大約一千億個神經元 。
and the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other .	神經元會互相溝通 , 透過傳遞或連接的電力傳遞訊息 。
the hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells , which are very densely interconnected .	海馬體是由兩個細胞組成的 , 它們非常密切相互連結 。
and scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food .	科學家已經開始了解 , 透過記錄的神經元在老鼠、老鼠、老鼠或老鼠身上做些什麼 , 只要他們想知道哪些特性記憶是如何運作的 。
so we're going to imagine we're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here .	所以 , 我們會想像我們正在記錄從一個神經元的海馬體 , 到這裡的海馬體 。
and when it fires a little spike of electricity , there's going to be a red dot and a click .	當它發出電力時 , 會有一個紅點點 , 點點點擊 。
so what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment .	我們看到的是這個神經元知道 , 當老鼠進入一個特定的地方時 , 牠的環境中就會發生 。
and it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike .	它訊號到大腦的訊號 , 傳送一個小電動脈 。
so we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal's location .	所以 , 我們可以顯示出神經元的功能是動物的特定位置 。
and if we record from lots of different neurons , we'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment , like in this square box shown here .	如果我們從很多不同的神經元發出 , 我們會看到不同神經元的不同神經元 , 會發現不同的神經元會從不同的神經元發出 , 像在這個廣場的盒子裡 。
so together they form a map for the rest of the brain , telling the brain continually , " where am i now within my environment ? "	所以 , 他們把腦部的圖片放到腦中 , 說: 「 我現在在哪裡 ? 」
place cells are also being recorded in humans .	細胞也被記錄在人類身上 。
so epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring .	癲癇患者有時候需要電力活動在他們的大腦監控 。
and some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town .	有些病人在小鎮上玩電玩遊戲 。
and place cells in their hippocampi would fire , become active , start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town .	當它們穿過特殊的位置時 , 就會開始發送電脈衝 , 讓它們穿過特殊的位置 。
so how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment ?	所以 , 細胞知道哪個位置 , 位置在哪裡 , 或人在哪裡 ?
well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important .	這兩個細胞告訴我們 , 環境的界線是很重要的 。
so the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat's in .	頂端的頂端 , 像是在箱子的牆壁之間打開空氣 。
and when you expand the box , the firing location expands .	當你擴展到這個盒子時 , 飛行器就會擴展 。
the one below likes to fire whenever there's a wall close by to the south .	一旦接觸到南方 , 就會有牆接近南方 。
and if you put another wall inside the box , then the cell fires in both place wherever there's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box .	如果你把另一個牆放到另一邊牆上 , 在盒子裡的細胞 , 就會在盒子裡接觸到南方的細胞 , 另一壁牆就在盒子裡 。
so this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you extended buildings and so on is particularly important for the hippocampus .	所以 , 這種預測會讓你在周圍的距離和方向 , 了解到海馬體的距離和方向 。
and indeed , on the inputs to the hippocampus , cells are found which project into the hippocampus , which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it's exploring around .	實際上 , 在海馬體中 , 細胞發現了海馬體的特定位置 , 牠在海馬體的位置 , 到海馬迴 , 發現牠在海馬體的位置 , 牠在探索海馬迴時 , 會發現牠在海馬體的位置 。
so the cell on the left , you can see , it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east , whether it's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table , which the animals are running around .	左邊的圖形是 , 你可以看到 , 它的火焰會被周圍的圍繞圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈的牆壁就像是邊緣
and the cell on the right there fires whenever there's a boundary to the south , whether it's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart .	右邊的這張圖片 , 左邊邊緣的空氣 , 不管是左邊邊緣的牆 , 或牆壁或甚至兩張桌子之間的距離 , 都可以被拆除 。
so that's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it's exploring around .	因此 , 我們認為細胞決定在哪裡 , 牠在探索的地方 。
we can also test where we think objects are , like this goal flag , in simple environments or indeed , where your car would be .	我們也可以測試我們認為物品的樣子 , 比如這個目標旗幟 , 在簡單的環境中 , 或你在車子裡 。
so we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember .	所以 , 我們可以讓人們探索一個環境 , 看到他們所記得的位置 。
and then , if we put them back in the environment , generally they're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was .	然後 , 如果我們把它們放回環境中 , 一般來說 , 他們很擅長把標記放在他們認為旗幟或車子的位置 。
but on some trials , we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell .	但在某些試驗中 , 我們可以改變形狀和大小的形狀和大小 , 就像我們在細胞上做的事一樣 。
in that case , we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment .	在這個案例中 , 我們可以看到他們認為旗幟的形狀和尺寸是如何改變的形狀和大小 。
and what you see , for example , if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment , and then if you ask people where it was , but you've made the environment bigger , where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out .	舉例來說 , 如果旗子在一個小平方形的環境下 , 你就會看到 , 舉例來說 , 如果旗幟在一個小平方環境大大 , 你會看到 , 舉個例子 , 如果旗幟在一個小平方環境大大 , 他們認為旗幟在一個小方形的環境下 , 該怎麼做 , 但你讓環境更大 , 他們認為旗幟已經被延伸出去 。
it's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location , and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern .	正如你所想像的 , 在那個位置的位置 , 那個位置的位置 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 然後你就可以
that guides you back to the location that you want to remember .	這指導你回到你想要記住的位置 。
but we also know where we are through movement .	但我們也知道我們正在經歷運動 。
so if we take some outbound path perhaps we park and we wander off we know because our own movements , which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back .	所以 , 假如我們能融合這條路徑 , 我們就知道 , 因為我們自己的運動 , 我們能整合這條路徑 , 應該要回頭的方向 。
and place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell .	細胞也得到了一種細胞 , 叫做網絡細胞 。
now grid cells are found , again , on the inputs to the hippocampus , and they're a bit like place cells .	網狀細胞被發現 , 再次在海馬體上 , 牠們有點像細胞 。
but now as the rat explores around , each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid .	但現在 , 當老鼠探索時 , 每一個細胞都會在一個很奇妙的平行軌道上 , 都在一個非常平凡的軌道上 。
and if you record from several grid cells shown here in different colors each one has a gridlike firing pattern across the environment , and each cell's gridlike firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells .	如果你從幾個網格細胞的網格圖案中 , 每一個細胞的網格圖案 , 都跟其他細胞的網格相互交換 , 和其他細胞的網格相互作用 。
so the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one .	所以 , 紅色的綠色在這個上面的紅色 , 上面的藍色 。
so together , it's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you'd find on a map , but using triangles .	所以 , 同樣的 , 老鼠可以在地圖上找到一個虛擬的網絡 , 用三角形來調整它的環境 。
and as it moves around , the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is , so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment .	隨著它移動 , 電動活動可以從一個細胞到下一個細胞 , 到下一個細胞去追蹤它的位置 , 所以它可以用它的動作來控制它 。
do people have grid cells ?	人們有電網嗎 ?
well because all of the gridlike firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry , the same orientations of grid , shown in orange here , it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between .	由於大腦中所有特定部位的神經活動 , 可以改變根據我們是否在六個方向或跑道上運作 , 這意味著神經活動的神經活動 , 每一個網格的網絡都有相同的指標 , 也就是說 , 這意味著神經活動 , 大腦中的每一個特定部位 , 都可以改變根據我們是否在六個方向跑步 。
so we can put people in an mri scanner and have them do a little video game like the one i showed you and look for this signal .	所以我們可以把人放到mri掃描器裡 , 用一個磁共振造影像我展示給你們看的 , 看看這個訊號 。
and indeed , you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex , which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats .	的確 , 你在人類的皮質上看到的是大腦的一部分 , 大腦的一部分 , 會讓你看到它的腦部 。
so back to homer .	回到家鄉 。
he's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked .	他可能記得他在車子的位置 , 和方向去延伸建築物和邊界的位置 , 讓他停下來 。
and that would be represented by the firing of boundarydetecting cells .	這會代表的是神經細胞的神經細胞 。
he's also remembering the path he took out of the car park , which would be represented in the firing of grid cells .	他還記得他從車輛停車場所留下的路徑 , 它會代表在網格細胞的路上 。
now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire .	這兩種細胞都可以讓細胞發燒 。
and he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car .	他可以回到地位的位置 , 在那裡他停車開車的位置 , 找到最好的位置 , 位置在他的大腦中 , 位置在他的大腦中 , 位置在他的大腦中 , 位置的位置是哪裡 , 哪裡是最好的 。
and that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car's actually there .	這引導他回到那個位置不視覺的視覺暗示 , 像是他的車子是否存在 。
maybe it's been towed .	或許它已經被灌輸了 。
but he knows where it was , so he knows to go and get it .	但他知道那是哪裡 , 所以他知道他要去哪裡 , 拿到它 。
so beyond spatial memory , if we look for this gridlike firing pattern throughout the whole brain , we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks , like remembering the last time you went to a wedding , for example .	除了空間記憶力之外 , 如果我們看看這個網狀的圖像在整個腦部紀錄 , 我們看到它在整個腦部的運作 , 我們在整個腦中看到它 , 我們看到它在整整一系列的記錄 , 我們在整個腦中看到它 , 我們看到它在整個大腦裡 , 我們看到它在整個腦部裡 , 我們看到它在整個腦部裡 , 我們看到它在整個腦部裡 , 我們看到它在整個腦部裡 , 我們看到它在整個腦部裡 , 我們看到它在整個腦部裡 , 我們看到它在整個腦部裡 , 我們看到它在整個腦部裡 , 我們看到它在整個腦部裡 , 我們看到它 ,
so it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene , at least , of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them .	所以 , 可能是神經機制 , 代表在我們周圍的環境中 , 會產生視覺影像 , 這樣我們就能重新創造出視覺影像 , 這樣我們才能重新創造出視覺影像 , 這樣我們才能重新創造出視覺影像 , 這樣我們才能重新創造出視覺影像 。
so if this was happening , your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint .	所以 , 如果發生了 , 你的記憶可以從細胞開始 , 透過這些密集的神經細胞 , 來創造出你周遭的空間結構 , 來創造你周圍的空間結構 。
and grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space .	而網格細胞可以移動這個觀點 。
another kind of cell , head direction cells , which i didn't mention yet , they fire like a compass according to which way you're facing .	另一種細胞 , 我沒有提到 , 腦部的細胞 , 正面臨的方向 , 我還沒提到 , 他們火火就像一個對方的指標 。
they could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery , so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding , for example .	他們可以定義觀看的方向 , 你可以想像你在這個婚禮的情況下發生什麼事 , 例如 。
so this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains .	所以這只是一個新的時代在認知神經科學領域我們開始了解心理過程 , 例如你如何記住或想像或甚至思考一下 , 由數十億個神經元組成的神經元組成我們的大腦 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝 。
imagine a global security driven by collaboration among agencies , government , the private sector and the public . that's not just the distant hope of opensource fans , it's the vision of james stavridis , the supreme commander of nato , who shares vivid moments from recent military history to explain why security of the future should be built with bridges rather than walls .	想像一下 , 全球安全的開放源源是詹姆斯•史塔利斯•史蒂夫、政府、私人部門和公共 , 不只如此遠遠的希望開放源源 , 它是詹姆斯•史密斯的大眾 , 它是詹姆斯•史密斯的大眾 , 它是詹姆斯•史迪斯史上最高的總統 , 他分享了來自近期的軍方歷史 , 來解釋為何保守未來應該要建造橋樑 , 而不是牆壁 。
collaboration , global issues , opensource , peace , politics , social media , violence , war	合作、全球性的議題、開放源、和平、政治、社交媒體、暴力、戰爭 。
james stavridis: how nato's supreme commander thinks about global security	詹姆斯•史維利:他是怎麼看待全球安全的 。
i'm gonna talk a little bit about opensource security , because we've got to get better at security in this 21st century .	我要談談開放安全的安全 , 因為我們在21世紀的安全要更好 。
let me start by saying , let's look back to the 20th century , and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us .	讓我開始說 , 咱們來回二十世紀 , 來看看二十世紀 , 這對我們來說是怎樣的安全感 。
this is verdun , a battlefield in france just north of the nato headquarters in belgium .	這是巴特 , 法國的北方 , 位於北方 , 位於北方的北方 。
at verdun , in 1916 , over a 300day period , 700 , 000 people were killed , so about 2 , 000 a day .	在1916年 , 約有70萬人被殺死 , 大約有2 , 000人 。
if you roll it forward 20thcentury security into the second world war , you see the battle of stalingrad , 300 days , 2 million people killed .	如果你在第二次世界大戰結束時 , 會看到戰役 , 三百天 , 三百天 , 兩百萬人死亡 。
we go into the cold war , and we continue to try and build walls .	我們進入冷戰 , 我們繼續嘗試建造牆 。
we go from the trench warfare of the first world war to the maginot line of the second world war , and then we go into the cold war , the iron curtain , the berlin wall .	我們從戰爭的第一次世界大戰結束 , 第二次世界大戰結束 , 接著我們進入冷戰 , 伊隆的曲線 , 一間聖戰 。
my thesis for us today is , instead of building walls to create security , we need to build bridges .	今天我所說的 , 是不是要建造橋樑 , 而是要建造橋樑 。
this is a famous bridge in europe .	這是歐洲的橋樑 。
it's the bridge over the drina river , the subject of a novel by ivo andrić , and it talks about how , in that very troubled part of europe and the balkans , over time there's been enormous building of walls .	河流的橋樑 , 由伊斯蘭教授和巴爾卡河的主題 , 和巴爾幹的一小部分 , 和巴爾幹大樓的一小部分 , 並且談到 , 在歐洲和巴爾幹的大樓中 , 發生了什麼事 。
more recently , in the last decade , we begin to see these communities start , hesitatingly , to come together .	最近 , 幾十年來 , 我們開始看到這些社區開始 , 開始看到這些社區開始 , 開始看到這些社區開始 。
i would argue , again , opensource security is about connecting the international , the interagency , the privatepublic , and lashing it together with strategic communication , largely in social networks .	我會爭論 , 公開資源安全是關聯國際、私人的公共空間 , 並且將它們聯繫起來 , 公開資源安全是連結國際、私人的公共空間 , 並且將它們聯繫起來 , 建立在社交網路上 。
so let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that , because our global commons is under attack in a variety of ways , and none of the sources of threat to the global commons will be solved by building walls .	讓我稍稍說明一下為什麼我們需要這麼做 , 因為我們的全球共同點 , 都在受到威脅的威脅 , 以至全球常見 , 都受到威脅的威脅 , 以至全球常常被打破 。
now , i'm a sailor , obviously .	現在 , 我是很明顯的 。
this is a ship , a liner , clipping through the indian ocean .	這是一艘船 , 一艘船 , 一艘船 , 橫跨印度洋 。
what's wrong with this picture ?	這張照片有什麼問題 ?
it's got concertina wire along the sides of it .	牠會在牠的旁邊 , 帶著保險套 。
that's to prevent pirates from attacking it .	這樣才能防止海盜來防止海盜 。
piracy is a very active threat today around the world . this is in the indian ocean .	piracy是極具威脅性的威脅 , 在印度的海洋 。
piracy is also very active in the strait of malacca .	陰謀也非常活躍在馬拉克卡 。
it's active in the gulf of guinea .	牠在瓜地馬尼亞海灣游泳 。
we see it in the caribbean .	我們在加勒比海看到它 。
it's a $10billionayear discontinuity in the global transport system .	這是在全球運輸系統中數十億美金的損失 。
last year , at this time , there were 20 vessels , 500 mariners held hostage .	去年 , 在這個時候 , 有20個船員 , 500名馬丁爾斯特 。
this is an attack on the global commons .	這是全球常見的攻擊 。
we need to think about how to address it .	我們需要思考如何處理它 。
let's shift to a different kind of sea , the cyber sea .	讓我們轉換不同的海洋 , 網路海 。
here are photographs of two young men .	這是兩個年輕人的照片 。
at the moment , they're incarcerated .	那時 , 他們被監禁 。
they conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars .	他們做了一項信用卡詐欺 , 給他們超過十億美金 。
this is part of cybercrime which is a $2trillionayear discontinuity in the global economy .	這是網路犯罪的一部分 , 網路犯罪的2兆美元在全球經濟上 。
two trillion a year .	每年有兩兆 。
that's just under the gdp of great britain .	這只是在英國的大英國 。
so this cyber sea , which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness , is very much under threat as well .	所以這個網路海 , 我們知道無限的基本上是極端的基礎 , 絕對是極端的基礎 。
another thing i worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking , by the movement of narcotics , opium , here coming out of afghanistan through europe over to the united states .	另一件我擔心的事情是 , 全球普通的威脅是威脅 , 被販賣的威脅 , 從阿富汗 , 到美國 。
we worry about cocaine coming from the andean ridge north .	我們擔心古柯鹼來自東南北部 。
we worry about the movement of illegal weapons and trafficking . above all , perhaps , we worry about human trafficking , and the awful cost of it .	我們擔心人口販賣 , 和販賣 , 最重要的是 , 也許 , 我們擔心人口販賣 , 和販賣 。
trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons .	販賣大量在海洋中 , 同時也在全球共通點上 。
this is a photograph , and i wish i could tell you that this is a very hightech piece of us navy gear that we're using to stop the trafficking .	這是一張照片 , 我希望我能告訴各位 , 這是個非常高科技的美國海軍軍隊 , 用來阻止販賣 。
the bad news is , this is a semisubmersible run by drug cartels .	壞消息是 , 這種病患藥品牌會被毒品包裹起來 。
it was built in the jungles of south america .	它在南美的叢林中被建造出來 。
we caught it with that lowtech raft — — and it was carrying six tons of cocaine .	我們把它帶著六噸的古柯鹼 。
crew of four . sophisticated communications sweep .	第四個 , 複雜的溝通 。
this kind of trafficking , in narcotics , in humans , in weapons , god forbid , in weapons of mass destruction , is part of the threat to the global commons .	這種人口販賣 , 包括毒品、武器、大規模毀滅的武器 , 都是威脅到全球普通的一部分 。
and let's pull it together in afghanistan today .	咱們在阿富汗舉辦這場演講 。
this is a field of poppies in afghanistan .	這是阿富汗的田野 。
eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppy , opium and heroin , comes out of afghanistan .	全世界的百分之八十 , 鴉片和海洛因 , 來自阿富汗 。
we also see there , of course , terrorism .	我們也知道 , 恐怖主義 。
this is where al qaeda is staged from .	這就是蓋達組織所在的地方 。
we also see a very strong insurgency embedded there .	我們也看到一個非常強烈的緊急狀況 。
so this terrorism concern is also part of the global commons , and what we must address .	所以恐怖主義擔憂了全球常見的一部分 , 我們必須解決 。
so here we are , 21st century .	這裡是21世紀 。
we know our 20thcentury tools are not going to work .	我們知道我們二十世紀的工具並不會成功 。
what should we do ?	我們該怎麼做 ?
i would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我會說 , 我們不會把安全帶到槍枝的邊緣 。
we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我們不會把安全帶在槍枝上 。
we will need the application of military force .	我們需要應用軍事力量 。
when we do it , we must do it well , and competently .	當我們這麼做時 , 我們一定要做得很好 , 並且競爭 。
but my thesis is , opensource security is about international , interagency , privatepublic connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the internet .	但我的論點是 , 公開資源安全是國際間 , 公開資源安全 , 國際間 , 私人交流 , 開放資源安全是國際、互聯網 , 和私人交流的連結 。
let me give you a couple of examples of how this works in a positive way .	讓我舉幾個例子 , 說明這如何運作 。
this is afghanistan . these are afghan soldiers .	這是阿富汗 。 這些是阿富汗軍人 。
they are all holding books .	他們全都包含書 。
you should say , " that's odd . i thought i read that this demographic , young men and women in their 20s and 30s , is largely illiterate in afghanistan . "	你應該說: 「 這很奇怪 , 我以為我讀了這個人口統計數字 , 年輕男子和女性 , 在2030歲時 , 很像在阿富汗 。 」
you would be correct .	你是正確的 。
eightyfive percent cannot read when they enter the security forces of afghanistan .	85%無法讀到阿富汗的安全力量 。
why ? because the taliban withheld education during the period of time in which these men and women would have learned to read .	為什麼 ? 因為塔利班教育在期待這些男人和婦女可以學會閱讀 。
so the question is , so , why are they all standing there holding books ?	所以 , 問題是 , 為什麼他們都站在那裡拿著書 ?
the answer is , we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by nato in partnership with private sector entities , in partnership with development agencies .	答案是 , 我們正在教導他們在讀書中 , 用私人部門和開發機構的關係 , 來處理私人部門和發展機構 。
we've taught well over 200 , 000 afghan security forces to read and write at a basic level .	我們教了超過200 , 000阿富汗安全部隊 , 來閱讀和寫字 。
when you can read and write in afghanistan , you will typically put a pen in your pocket .	當你讀和寫在阿富汗 , 你通常會把筆放在你的口袋裡 。
at the ceremonies , when these young men and women graduate , they take that pen with great pride , and put it in their pocket .	在典禮上 , 當這些年輕男人和女人畢業時 , 他們拿著一筆很棒的驕傲 , 然後把它放在口袋裡 。
this is bringing together international — there are 50 nations involved in this mission — interagency — these development agencies — and privatepublic , to take on this kind of security .	這裡有50個國家參與這個任務 , 國際間有50個國家參與這個任務:這些發展機構和私人和公共機構 , 都參與這個任務 。
now , we are also teaching them combat skills , of course , but i would argue , opensource security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect .	當然 , 我們也教他們對抗技巧 , 但我會說 , 開放式安全的連結 , 來創造更長時間的安全性 。
this is a us navy warship .	這是美國海軍戰艦 。
it's called the comfort .	叫做舒適 。
there's a sister ship called the mercy .	有一個姐妹的船叫 「 默斯特 」 。
they are hospital ships .	他們是醫院的船 。
this one , the comfort , operates throughout the caribbean and the coast of south america conducting patient treatments .	此外 , 在加勒比海和南美洲的海岸 , 營養了病人治療 。
on a typical cruise , they'll do 400 , 000 patient treatments .	一般來說 , 他們會有四十萬個病人治療 。
it is crewed not strictly by military but by a combination of humanitarian organizations: operation hope , project smile .	它不是被軍事的組成 , 而是由軍事組成 , 包括人道組織:手術希望 , 微笑 。
other organizations send volunteers .	其他組織把志工投入 。
interagency physicians come out .	醫師來到這裡 。
they're all part of this .	它們都是這一部分 。
to give you one example of the impact this can have , this little boy , eight years old , walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the comfort .	舉個例子 , 這個小男孩 , 八歲 , 和他的母親兩天來到眼科診所 , 來到眼科診所 。
when he was fitted , over his extremely myopic eyes , he suddenly looked up and said , " mama , veo el mundo . "	當他被完整時 , 他突然抬起頭 , 說: 「 媽媽 , 維羅•伊斯維羅 。 」
" mom , i see the world . "	「 媽媽 , 我看到世界 。 」
multiply this by 400 , 000 patient treatments , this privatepublic collaboration with security forces , and you begin to see the power of creating security in a very different way .	乘以四十萬個病人治療 , 這種私人和安全力量的力量 , 你開始看到創造安全力量的力量 , 非常不同的方式 。
here you see baseball players .	這裡你看到棒球玩家 。
can you pick out the two us army soldiers in this photograph ?	你能否選出兩位美國軍士兵在這張照片中 ?
they are the two young men on either side of these young boys . this is part of a series of baseball clinics , where we have explored collaboration between major league baseball , the department of state , who sets up the diplomatic piece of this , military baseball players , who are real soldiers with real skills but participate in this mission , and they put on clinics throughout latin america and the caribbean , in honduras , in nicaragua , in all of the central american and caribbean nations where baseball is so popular , and it creates security .	他們是兩位年輕男孩的一部分 。 這是一系列的美國和加勒比海 , 美國和加勒比海地區 , 在奈拉丁美洲和加勒比海地區 , 在全美加勒比海 , 和加勒比海地區 , 在全美加勒比海的國家 , 和加勒比海 , 美國和加勒比海的國家 , 在那裡 , 他們在加勒比海 , 和加勒比海 , 美國和加勒比海地區 , 在那裡進行了合作 。 這是一系列的合作 。 這是一系列的研發團隊 。 這是一系列的合作 。 這是一系列的研發團隊 。 這是一系列的軍事棒球隊 。 這是一系列的軍事棒球隊 。 這是一系列的團隊 , 我們已經探索合作合作 , 主要聯盟軍事棒球員 , 和加勒比海地區 , 和加勒比海 , 和美國和加勒比海 , 都在加勒比海 , 和加勒比海 , 和加勒比海 , 美國和加勒比海 , 都是如此受歡迎的 , 同時也創造了安全 。
it shows role models to young men and women about fitness and about life that i would argue help create security for us .	它展現了年輕男性和女性的關係 , 關於適應和生活 , 我會爭論 , 為我們創造安全 。
another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief .	另一方面的合作是災難性的信念 。
this is a us air force helicopter participating after the tsunami in 2004 which killed 250 , 000 people .	這是美國空軍直升機在2004年 , 殺了250 , 000人 。
in each of these major disasters — the tsunami in 2004 , 250 , 000 dead , the kashmiri earthquake in pakistan , 2005 , 85 , 000 dead , the haitian earthquake , about 300 , 000 dead , more recently the awful earthquaketsunami combination which struck japan and its nuclear industry — in all of these instances , we see partnerships between international actors , interagency , privatepublic working with security forces to respond to this kind of natural disaster .	每次在巴基斯坦2005、2005、2005年的三十萬名死刑中 , 大約有三十萬人死亡 , 近期是地球地震 , 海嘯是2005 , 9000 , 000死亡 , 甚至是地球地震的一部分 , 在巴基斯坦 , 恐怖襲擊日本 , 和其核產業發生了 , 今天我們看到各國際間的關係 , 海嘯 , 和其它核能產業 , 正如我們所見到的 , 國際間的關係 , 和它的核產業 。
so these are examples of this idea of opensource security .	這些都是關於開放資源安全的例子
we tie it together , increasingly , by doing things like this .	我們把它們結合在一起 , 越來越多的做法 。
now , you're looking at this thinking , " ah , admiral , these must be sea lanes of communication , or these might be fiber optic cables . "	現在 , 你正在看著這個思想: 「 啊 , 艾米德 , 這些必要是通訊的溝通 , 或這些可能是電纜線 。 」
no . this is a graphic of the world according to twitter .	不 , 這是世界根據推特的圖表 。
purple are tweets . green are geolocation .	紫色是推特 , 綠色是推特 。
white is the synthesis .	白色是合成 。
it's a perfect evocation of that great population survey , the six largest nations in the world in descending order: china , india , facebook , the united states , twitter and indonesia .	這是個很棒的人口調查 , 第六個最大的國家在世界各地 , 包括中國、印度、臉書、美國、推特和印尼 。
why do we want to get in these nets ?	我們為什麼要在這些網上呢 ?
why do we want to be involved ?	我們為什麼要參與呢 ?
we talked earlier about the arab spring , and the power of all this .	我們剛剛談到阿拉伯之春 , 所有這一切的力量 。
i'll give you another example , and it's how you move this message .	我再舉另一個例子 , 就是你如何移動這個訊息 。
i gave a talk like this in london a while back about this point . i said , as i say to all of you , i'm on facebook . friend me .	我在倫敦舉辦了一場演講 , 如同我所說的 , 我在倫敦說話 。 我說 , 我和你們一樣 , 我在臉書上朋友我說 。
got a little laugh from the audience .	聽起來有點笑 。
there was an article which was run by ap , on the wire .	有一篇文章是由ap在電線上傳播的 。
got picked up in two places in the world: finland and indonesia .	在世界各地有兩個地方:芬蘭和印尼 。
the headline was: nato admiral needs friends .	標題是:納米德需要朋友 。
and the story was a catalyst , and the next morning i had hundreds of facebook friend requests from indonesians and finns , mostly saying , " admiral , we heard you need a friend , and oh , by the way , what is nato ? "	故事是 , 今天早上 , 我有幾百臉書的朋友 , 來自印尼和芬蘭 , 通常說: 「 阿迪 , 我們聽到你需要朋友 , 喔 , 哈 , 哪些 ? 」
yeah , we laugh , but this is how we move the message , and moving that message is how we connect international , interagency , privatepublic , and these social nets to help create security .	沒錯 , 我們笑了 , 但這就是我們如何傳遞訊息 , 而這個訊息就是我們如何連結國際、互聯、國際、私人和社交聯盟 , 來協助創造安全 。
now , let me hit a somber note .	現在 , 讓我先打個音符 。
this is a photograph of a brave british soldier .	這是一張勇敢英國士兵的照片 。
he's in the scots guards .	他在蘇格蘭警衛 。
he's standing the watch in helmand , in southern afghanistan .	他站在南阿富汗南部阿富汗 。
i put him here to remind us , i would not want anyone to leave the room thinking that we do not need capable , competent militaries who can create real military effect .	我把他提醒我們 , 我不會想要任何人離開房間認為我們不需要有能力、競爭力的軍事效應 。
that is the core of who we are and what we do , and we do it to protect freedom , freedom of speech , all the things we treasure in our societies .	這就是我們所做的核心 , 我們所做的一切 , 都能保護自由 , 自由 , 自由 , 自由 , 言論自由 , 所有我們在社會中所做的一切 。
but , you know , life is not an onandoff switch .	但 , 你知道 , 生命不是一個開關的開關 。
you don't have to have a military that is either in hard combat or is in the barracks .	你不需要有軍隊 , 不必有軍隊 , 都不需要軍隊 。
i would argue life is a rheostat .	我會說 , 生命就是一個節奏 。
you have to dial it in , and as i think about how we create security in this 21st century , there will be times when we will apply hard power in true war and crisis , but there will be many instances , as we've talked about today , where our militaries can be part of creating 21stcentury security , international , interagency , privatepublic , connected with competent communication .	你必須把這二十個世紀的財務分開 , 如同我所說的 , 我們的軍事是創造出21世紀安全的安全、國際、、私人的 , 和交互溝通的力量 , 才能成為創造21世紀安全的安全、國際、私人和公共事務的力量 。
i would close by saying that we heard earlier today about wikipedia . i use wikipedia all the time to look up facts , and as all of you appreciate , wikipedia is not created by 12 brilliant people locked in a room writing articles .	最後我會說我們今天早上聽到的 , 維基百科 。 我用維基百科 , 維基百科 , 維基百科 , 維基百科 , 全都不用維基百科 , 維基百科 , 維基百科 , 全都不用維基百科 , 維基百科 , 維基百科 , 都不用維基百科 。
wikipedia , every day , is tens of thousands of people inputting information , and every day millions of people withdrawing that information .	維基百科 , 每一天 , 每一天 , 有數萬人 , 每天都在寫信息 。
it's a perfect image for the fundamental point that no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	這是個完美的圖片 , 沒有人和我們所有人都一樣聰明 。
no one person , no one alliance , no one nation , no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	沒有一個人 , 沒有一個國家 , 沒有一個人 , 沒有一個人 , 沒有一個國家 , 沒有一個人 , 沒有一個人 , 沒有一個國家 , 沒有一個人 , 沒有一個
the vision statement of wikipedia is very simple: a world in which every human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge .	維基百科的維基百科是非常簡單的:一個世界 , 每個人都可以自由地分享所有知識的證據 。
my thesis for you is that by combining international , interagency , privatepublic , strategic communication , together , in this 21st century , we can create the sum of all security .	我的意思是 , 由結合國際、互聯、國際、互聯、國際、互聯、國際、互聯性 , 在這個21世紀 , 我們就能創造出所有安全的安全 。
thank you very much . thank you . thank you .	非常謝謝 。 謝謝 。
