BLEU = 19.70 53.1/27.5/14.8/8.3 (BP = 0.957 ratio = 0.958 hyp_len = 106603 ref_len = 111282)
when you say she's a programmer , she did do some , but the real thing is to have said the future is going to be much , much more than this .	當你說她是程式設計師 , 她做了一些 , 但事實上 , 是要說未來將會比這個還要多 。
now , a hundred years later , this guy comes along , alan turing , and in 1936 , and invents the computer all over again .	一百年後 , 這個傢伙來了 , 在1936年 , 在1936年 , 發明了電腦 。
now , of course , babbage's machine was entirely mechanical .	當然 , 巴比斯的機器是完全機械化的 。
turing's machine was entirely theoretical .	turing的機器完全是理論性的 。
both of these guys were coming from a mathematical perspective , but turing told us something very important .	這些人都來自數學的觀點 , 但要告訴我們一件非常重要的事 。
he laid down the mathematical foundations for computer science , and said , " it doesn't matter how you make a computer . "	他把數學基金會推下電腦科學的數學基礎 , 說: 「 不管你如何製造電腦 。 」
it doesn't matter if your computer's mechanical , like babbage's was , or electronic , like computers are today , or perhaps in the future , cells , or , again , mechanical again , once we get into nanotechnology .	不管你的電腦的機械機械性 , 像是babbage的 , 或電子 , 像是現今的電腦 , 或未來 , 細胞 , 或再一次 , 機械 , 一旦我們進入奈米科技 。
we could go back to babbage's machine and just make it tiny . all those things are computers .	我們可以回到巴比斯的機器 , 讓它變小 , 所有這些東西都是電腦 。
there is in a sense a computing essence .	在某種意義上 , 有一種計算的本質 。
this is called the church–turing thesis .	這叫做 「 教堂 」 。
and so suddenly , you get this link where you say this thing babbage had built really was a computer .	所以 , 突然間 , 你得到了這個連結 , 在這裡你說這東西的泡沫真的是一台電腦 。
in fact , it was capable of doing everything we do today with computers , only really slowly .	事實上 , 它可以做我們今天用電腦做的事 , 只能慢慢地做 。
to give you an idea of how slowly , it had about 1k of memory .	為了給你一個想法 , 它有多慢 , 大概有1/1的記憶 。
it used punch cards , which were being fed in , and it ran about 10 , 000 times slower the first zx81 .	它用的卡片 , 被餵食 , 大約有一萬倍的速度降低第一個zx81 。
it did have a ram pack .	它的確有雷射包 。
you could add on a lot of extra memory if you wanted to .	若你想要做的事 , 你可以加上很多額外的記憶 。
so , where does that bring us today ?	所以 , 今天 , 這帶給我們什麼樣的 ?
so there are plans .	這裡有計劃 。
over in swindon , the science museum archives , there are hundreds of plans and thousands of pages of notes written by charles babbage about this analytical engine .	在瑞典 , 科學博物館逮捕了 , 有數百個計劃和數以千計的筆記 , 由查爾斯•巴布寫著這個分析引擎 。
one of those is a set of plans that we call plan 28 , and that is also the name of a charity that i started with doron swade , who was the curator of computing at the science museum , and also the person who drove the project to build a difference engine , and our plan is to build it .	其中一組是我們稱之為28計劃的計劃 , 這也是我剛開始的慈善名字 , 他是科學博物館的曲線 , 同時 , 驅使這個計畫建立了不同的引擎 , 我們的計畫是建立它 。
here in south kensington , we will build the analytical engine .	在南韓 , 我們會建立分析引擎 。
the project has a number of parts to it .	專案有數個部分 。
one was the scanning of babbage's archive .	一個是巴比斯的檔案 。
that's been done . the second is now the study of all of those plans to determine what to build .	這已經完成了 , 第二個是研究這些計畫的研究 , 來決定要做什麼 。
the third part is a computer simulation of that machine , and the last part is to physically build it at the science museum .	第三個部分是電腦模擬這台機器的模擬 , 最後一部分是在科學博物館建造它 。
when it's built , you'll finally be able to understand how a computer works , because rather than having a tiny chip in front of you , you've got to look at this humongous thing and say , " ah , i see the memory operating , i see the cpu operating , i hear it operating . i probably smell it operating . "	當它建構時 , 你終於能了解電腦如何運作 , 因為與其在你面前有一小晶片 , 你必須檢視這個謙遜的東西 , 說: 「 啊 , 我看到記憶運作 , 我會聽到它運作 。 」
but in between that we're going to do a simulation .	但在我們要做一個模擬 。
babbage himself wrote , he said , as soon as the analytical engine exists , it will surely guide the future course of science .	巴貝爾寫了自己 , 他說 , 當分析引擎存在時 , 它一定會引導未來的科學課程 。
of course , he never built it , because he was always fiddling with new plans , but when it did get built , of course , in the 1940s , everything changed .	當然 , 他從來沒有建造出來 , 因為他總是用新計劃來飛行 , 但當它在1940年代建立時 , 一切都改變了 。
now , i'll just give you a little taste of what it looks like in motion with a video which shows just one part of the cpu mechanism working .	現在 , 我會給你們一些小小的味道 , 用影片的動作 , 顯示cpu機制運作的一部分 。
so this is just three sets of cogs , and it's going to add . this is the adding mechanism in action , so you imagine this gigantic machine .	這只是三組的表面 , 它會加上 。 這是在行動中增加的機制 , 所以你想像這台巨大的機器 。
so , give me five years .	所以 , 給我五年 。
before the 2030s happen , we'll have it .	在2030年代發生之前 , 我們會得到它 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝大家 。
in this imagefilled talk , yann arthusbertrand displays his three most recent projects on humanity and our habitat stunning aerial photographs in his series " the earth from above , " personal interviews from around the globe featured in his web project " 6 billion others , " and his soontobereleased movie , " home , " which documents human impact on the environment through breathtaking video .	在這個影像的演說中 , yan藝術hubertorand展示了他的三項計畫 , 在人類和棲息地的照片中 , 拍攝地球的《全球》 , 來自全球各地的個人訪問 , 《網路計劃》中 , 《六十億人》 , 以及他很快的《家》 , 記錄了人類對環境的影響 。
art , climate change , environment , film , future , humanity , media , photography	藝術、氣候變遷、環境、未來、人性、媒體、攝影、攝影 , 包括藝術、氣候變遷、環境、環境、未來、人性、媒體、媒體、媒體、照片
yann arthusbertrand captures fragile earth in wideangle	yan藝術創作者捕捉了脆弱的地球 , 在廣大的角度上捕捉了脆弱的地球 。
i have a big impact on the planet to travel here by plane .	我對地球有很大的影響 , 以飛機來旅行 。
i emitted , in the atmosphere , nine tons of co2 ; that is the weight of two elephants .	我僱用了 , 在大氣中 , 九噸的二氧化碳 ; 這是兩個大象的重量 。
i came here to speak about ecology , and i emitted as much co2 as a frenchman in one year .	我來這裡談談生態學 , 一年內 , 我把二氧化碳當成法國人 。
so what do i have to do ?	所以我要怎麼做 ?
i have to kill a frenchman when i come back at home ?	當我回到家時 , 我得要殺一個法國人嗎 ?
i have to do my carbon offset in another way , like i do every time .	我必須用另一種方式做我的碳 , 就像我每次都做一樣 。
in fact my work is to show our impact on our planet .	事實上 , 我的作品是展示我們對地球的影響 。
i'm going to show you some examples of the last pictures i've done in the last year .	我要給你們看我去年所做的最後一張照片 。
alberta sand oil , a lot of pollution .	亞伯塔沙沙沙 , 很多污染 。
you know the problem ; we don't want to believe what we know .	你知道問題 , 我們不想相信我們所知的 。
in alberta people work nonstop , 24 hours by seven to extract as much oil as they can .	在阿爾伯達人工作的非營利組織 , 七個小時 , 比他們能得到的油還要多 。
we know about the end of oil .	我們知道石油的尾端 。
oil sand is not a longterm solution .	石油沙不是長期的解決方案 。
but we use three times more oil than we find every year .	但我們每年都使用石油比我們發現的還要多三倍 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們知道什麼 。
coral reef in new caledonia .	珊瑚礁在新柬埔寨 。
100 percent of the coral may be wiped out before 2050 because of global warming .	百分之百的珊瑚在2050年之前是因為全球暖化 。
and you know how coral are very sensitive to temperature , and are very important for the biodiversity of the sea .	而你知道珊瑚對溫度非常敏感 , 且對海洋的生物多樣性很重要 。
north pole . i've done this picture last summer .	北極 , 去年夏天我做了這張照片 。
it was impossible to do this picture 15 years ago .	15年前這張照片是不可能的 。
now there is a new way open between atlantic and pacific .	現在 , 在大西洋和太平洋之間有一個新的方法 。
the thickness of the arctic decreased more than 40 percent since 1960 .	北極的厚度從1960年開始增加了超過40% 。
there is a new face of kilimanjaro without ice .	不用冰的新面孔有一面新的kilimanjaro 。
it lost 80 percent of its ice .	它失去了80%的冰 。
according to scientists , in 100 years all the mountain glacier will be gone .	根據科學家 , 一百年來 , 所有山的冰河都會消失 。
glaciers are very important for the life on earth .	冰河對地球的生命很重要 。
like al gore told you , two billion people live on the water from the glacier of himalaya .	就像艾爾•戈爾告訴你 , 二十億人住在喜馬拉雅的冰河裡 。
return of fish men .	返回漁民 。
one fifth of human kind depend on fish to live .	大約有五分之一的人類種類依賴魚生存 。
today now 70 percent of the fish stock are overexploited .	現今 , 目前有70%的魚股已經過度了 。
according to fao , if we don't change our system of fishing the main sea resources will be gone in 2050 .	根據fao , 如果我們不改變我們的捕魚資源的系統 , 將會在2050年發生 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們知道什麼 。
the beautiful picture , by [unclear] in africa .	在非洲 , 美麗的照片 。
one human of six have not enough to eat in the world .	六個人沒有足夠的食物 。
one billion people have not enough to eat .	十億人不夠吃 。
in africa , corn is one of the main foods in many places .	在非洲 , 玉米是許多地方的主要食物之一 。
here in america , 90 percent of the corn cultivated is used to feed animals or to do oil .	在美國 , 有百分之九十的玉米培養動物或做石油 。
palm tree plantation in borneo .	天生的棕櫚樹植物 。
every year we lose 50 thousand square miles in deforestation .	每一年 , 我們都失去了五千平方英里的森林砍伐 。
refugee camp in darfur .	難民營在達爾夫 。
today we have 20 million refugees in the world .	現今 , 我們世界上有兩千萬難民 。
according to the u . n . , we speak about 250 million refugees in 2050 .	根據聯合國 , 我們在2050年提到2500萬難民 。
i always show my pictures in the street .	我總是在街上展示我的照片 。
we have done already 100 exhibitions in the cities .	我們已經在城市做了100個展覽 。
but how to understand the world without the voice of people ?	但要怎麼了解世界 , 不用人的聲音 ?
landscape was not enough .	景觀還不夠 。
it was obvious to me to do another work .	對我來說 , 很明顯要做另一個工作 。
i launched a project named six billion others .	我發表了一個計畫 , 名為六十億人 。
i sent around the world six cameramen asking the same question , the same crucial question , about life .	我在世界六個相機問了同樣的問題 , 相同的重要問題 , 關於生命 。
we have done five thousand interviews .	我們做了五千次訪問 。
i'm going to show you this .	我要給你們看這一點 。
man: the most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life ?	男子:我人生中最漂亮的事 ?
it's when my dad told me , " here , i give you this girl as your fiance . "	我爸爸跟我說: 「 這裡 , 我把這個女孩當你的虛構給你 。 」
woman: love ? love is nice if you can have it .	女人:愛嗎 ? 愛是好的 。
second man: romeo and juliet , sassi and panno , dodi and diana , heer and ranjha , this is love ! third man: my greatest fear is . . .	第二個男人:羅馬、茱莉亞、賈西、巴西、迪安娜、迪安娜、迪安娜 , 這是愛的 ! 第三個男人:我最大的恐懼 。
woman: you're asking me a hard question .	女人:你問我一個難題 。
fourth man: i live happily because what else should i do ?	第四個男人:我很幸福 , 因為我該怎麼做 ?
fifth man: the first thing i remember . . .	第五個男人:我記得的第一件事......
fifth man: . . . from my childhood , fifth man: we were having fun , biking .	第五個男人:從我的童年開始 , 第五個男人:我們有趣、腳踏車 。
seventh man: we invented stories , we flew around the world , while remaining in our attic .	第七個男人:我們發明了故事 , 我們在世界各地飛行 , 仍然在我們的意志中 。
eighth man: i had a big laugh today .	八個男人:今天我笑了 。
ninth man: you see , family is . . . it's awful .	ninthman:你知道 , 家人是 , 太糟了 。
10th man: in the word life , you have the life .	十個男人:在生命中 , 你有生命 。
11th man: who am i ? isn't that the biggest question ?	十一名男人:我是誰 ? 不是最大的問題 ?
12th man: if i was to go back to iraq and speak to the people , i'd have to bow down and kiss their feet .	十二個男人:如果我回到伊拉克 , 跟人們說話 , 我必須把腳踢下來 , 親吻他們的腳 。
just as that woman tried to kiss my feet when we were taking her sons .	正如那位女子試圖吻我的腳 , 當我們帶著她的兒子時 。
and i feel humbled by their strength .	我感受到自己的力量很謙卑 。
and i will forever feel a need to make reparations to iraq .	我永遠會感覺到要為伊拉克重複 。
second woman: dad , mom , i grew up .	第二個女人:爸 , 媽媽 , 我長大 。
you shouldn't worry about me . dad doesn't need to go to work .	你不應該擔心我 , 爸爸不需要去工作 。
my family . . . what can i say ?	我的家人 , 我可以說什麼 ?
at the moment , my family is very poor , my life here in shenzhen is just about showing myself that i can earn more and to let my parents stay and have something to live on .	在那一刻 , 我的家人非常貧窮 , 在這裡 , 我的人生只是為了展示我能賺更多 , 讓父母留下來 , 繼續活下去 。
i don't want them to spend their whole lives in poverty .	我不希望他們能在貧窮中花他們的生活 。
if someday i can achieve something , i would like to say thank you daddy and mommy .	如果有一天我能達成某樣東西 , 我想說謝謝你們爸爸和媽媽 。
thank you for having fed me and raised me , and for making my life of today . thank you .	感謝你為我餵養我 , 養育我 , 讓我今天的人生 。 謝謝 。
13th man: after seven years now of being in a wheelchair , i've done more in life being in a chair than out of a chair .	第十三位男子:七年後 , 我在輪椅上做過更多的人生 , 比上椅子的椅子還要多 。
i still surf . i sail the world . i freedive .	我仍然很驚訝 , 我去了世界 。 我自由 。
after many people said i couldn't do that .	許多人說我不能這樣做 。
and i think that comes from connecting with nature , connecting with the energy of life , because we're all disabled in some way on the planet spiritually , mentally or physically .	我認為這來自於與大自然的連結 , 與生命的能量連結 , 因為我們都在某種程度上都有殘疾 , 在地球上 , 心理上或身體上 。
i got the easy part .	我得到了簡單的部分 。
14th man: let's say that you and me like each other .	十四個男人:咱們說你和我一樣 。
you come from elsewhere .	你來自其他地方 。
you don't know me . i don't know you .	你不知道我 , 我不知道你 。
we talk without lying .	我們不會說謊 。
if i do like you , i give you one cow and many other things and we become friends .	如果我跟你一樣 , 我給你一個牛和很多其他東西 , 我們就變成朋友 。
how can we make it all by ourselves ?	我們要如何讓所有人都能做到呢 ?
yab: you can also go to the website , answer respond to the questions also .	尤:你也可以去網站 , 回答問題的回應 。
now i am going to speak to you about my movie .	現在我要跟大家談我的電影 。
for the last three years , i was shooting the earth for the movie .	過去三年來 , 我為電影拍攝地球 。
the name of the movie is " home " " maison . "	電影的名字是 「 家 」 。
it is about the state of the planet .	它和地球的狀態有關 。
it's a fantastic story of life on the earth .	這是地球上最棒的故事 。
i'm very proud to show you the teaser .	我很驕傲地向各位展示這些青少年 。
video: this earth is four and a half billion years old .	影片:地球是450億歲 。
these plants , several hundred million years old .	這些植物 , 數千萬歲 。
and we humans have been walking upright for only 200 thousand years .	我們人類一直在步行 , 只有200萬年 。
we've managed to adapt , and have conquered the whole planet .	我們成功適應了整個地球 。
for generations , we've been raising our children , not unlike millions of other species living beside us .	對世代來說 , 我們一直在養育我們的孩子 , 不像數百萬種其他物種住在我們旁邊 。
for the past 30 years i've been closely watching the earth and its dwellers from high up in the sky .	過去30年來 , 我仔細看地球和它在天空中高處的dweweller 。
our life is tied to the wellbeing of our planet .	我們的生命被關在地球的幸福中 。
we depend on water , forests , deserts , oceans .	我們仰賴水、森林、沙漠、海洋 。
fishing , breeding , farming are still the world's foremost human occupations .	魚類 , 繁殖 , 農業仍然是世界上人類的成品 。
and what binds us together is far greater than what divides us .	我們結合在一起的比我們分裂的還要大 。
we all share the same need for the earth's gifts the same wish to rise above ourselves , and become better .	我們都跟地球的禮物共享了一樣的需求 , 相同的希望能升起我們自己 , 變得更好 。
and yet we carry on raising walls to keep us apart .	然而 , 我們還帶著提高牆壁 , 讓我們分開 。
today our greatest battle is to protect the natural offerings of our planet .	今天 , 我們最偉大的戰役是保護我們地球的自然產物 。
in less than 50 years we've altered it more thoroughly than in the entire history of mankind .	不到五十年 , 我們已經改變了它 , 比起人類歷史的全部歷史更加嚴格 。
half of the world's forests have vanished .	世界上一半的森林已經消失了 。
water resources are running low .	水資源是低的 。
intensive farming is depleting soils .	強烈的農業正在剝奪土壤 。
our energy sources are not sustainable .	我們的能源來源不穩定 。
the climate is changing .	氣候正在改變 。
we are endangering ourselves .	我們在終結自己 。
we're only trying to improve our lives .	我們只是試著改善我們的生活 。
but the wealth gaps are growing wider .	但財富差距正在成長 。
we haven't yet understood that we're going at a much faster pace than the planet can sustain .	我們還沒了解到我們在一個比行星還快的速度 。
we know that solutions are available today .	我們知道 , 解決方案是可行的 。
we all have the power to change this trend for the better .	我們都有權力來改變這個趨勢 。
so what are we waiting for ?	所以 , 我們在等什麼 ?
yab: luc besson is the producer of the movie .	尤:lucbeson是電影的生產者 。
but it is not a normal movie .	但這不是正常的電影 。
the film is going to be distributed free .	電影將免費分佈 。
this film has no copyright .	這部電影沒有複製 。
on the five of june , the environment day , everybody can download the movie on internet .	在六月五日 , 環境日子 , 每個人都可以在網路上下載電影 。
the film is given for free to the distributor for tv and theater to show it the fifth of june .	這部電影是免費給電視和劇院給它展示六月五日的五分之一 。
there is no business on this movie .	這部電影沒有商業 。
it is also available for school , cities , ngos and you .	對學校、城市、非政府組織和你來說也是如此 。
we have to believe what we know .	我們必須相信我們所知道的 。
let me tell you something .	讓我告訴你一些東西 。
it's too late to be pessimistic really too late .	很晚就太晚了 , 真的太晚了 。
we have all a part of the solutions .	我們都有解決方案的一部分 。
to finish , i would like to welcome the 4 , 700th baby born since the beginning of this talk .	為了結束 , 我想要歡迎從這場演講開始出生的4 , 700個寶寶 。
merci beaucoup . i love you .	美麗貝洛 , 我愛你 。
illustrious jugglers the raspyni brothers show off their uncanny balance , agility , coordination and willingness to sacrifice . now , if you'll just stand completely still . . .	幻覺的陪伴們 , 拉普尼的兄弟在他們的不可思議的平衡、同意、協調和願意犧牲 。 現在 , 假如你會完全站起來......
collaboration , entertainment , humor , physics	合作、娛樂、幽默、物理學、物理學 。
the raspyni brothers juggle and jest	拉普尼的兄弟叢林和猶太教徒 。
dan holzman: please throw out the beanbag chairs . here we go .	丹•霍茲曼:請丟出北加爾的椅子 。 我們來了 。
barry friedman: there are all kinds of hightech chairs here today , but this is really , i think , when it reached its peak as far as ergonomics , comfort , design , flexibility . . .	布里•弗里德曼:現在有各種高科技椅子 , 但這真的 , 我認為 , 當它到達了它的山峰 , 舒適 , 設計、靈活性......
dh: now obviously , this is not something we do on our regular show ; it's something we just kind of learned for this , so we're going to try . but can we have some inspirational music for the beanbag chairs ?	很明顯地 , 這不是我們一般的節目 , 而是我們剛剛學到的 , 所以我們要嘗試的 。 我們是否能為蜜蜂椅子帶來一些靈感的音樂 ?
bf: nice show , daniel , nice show . you are the man !	布:好的節目 , 丹尼爾 , 秀 。 你是男人 !
nice show . man , that was good !	好的節目 。 男人 , 那很好 !
bf: you know , sometimes when people do those , they go all the way down .	布:有時候 , 當人們這麼做時 , 他們就會走下去 。
you actually just did that .	你其實只是這樣做 。
that's the kind of extra effort that's gotten us where we are today . . .	這是我們今天的目標 。
dh: all right , let's show them something special .	dh:好的 , 讓我們給他們看一些特別的東西 。
bf: . . . without a macarthur grant .	bf: 「 沒有數學的獎金...... 」
yeah , look at this . you know , all kinds of different . . .	是的 , 看看這個 , 你知道的 , 各種不同......
ted is about invention , let's be honest . right ? dh: yeah , it is .	ted是關於發明 , 老實說吧 ? 嗯 , 是的 , 是的 。
bf: last night , michael moschen showed some juggling props he has invented and working on .	布:昨天晚上 , 麥可•莫斯林展示了他發明了一些有趣的提案 。
right now , dan's going to show something he actually invented .	現在 , 丹將展示他發明的東西 。
dh: a type of juggling i actually invented , right after i saw another juggler do it .	dh:我真的發明了一類葡萄糖 , 在我看到另一種叢林做這件事之後 。
dh: and this is a small excerpt from a longer piece .	dh:這是一個較長的作品 。
folks , this is shaker cup juggling . it's not a showstopper but it certainly slows it down .	有人 , 這是莎士•布格林 , 不是節目專家 , 但它肯定會慢下來 。
bf: oh yeah , it does .	bf:喔 , 是的 , 它是的 。
bf: oh , daniel .	bf:喔 , 丹尼爾 。
bf: ok . dh: oh ! all right .	bf:好的 , dh:好的 !
i'm now pushing my luck: i'm skipping right to six cups .	我現在正在推動我的幸運:我在踢六杯子 。
in order to do six cups , i must have perfect control over three with my right hand .	為了做六個杯子 , 我必須有完美的控制 , 用我的右手來控制 。
bf: also three with his left .	bf:另外有三個左派 。
and now , all six cups . should i do it on the first try or should i miss once on purpose ?	現在 , 所有六個杯子 , 我應該先試試 , 或我不該去做任何目的 ?
bf: first try ? once on purpose ?	首先試試試嗎 ? 試試試一次嗎 ?
dh: how about if i try first and then decide ?	dh:如果我先試試 , 然後決定呢 ?
bf: good idea . let's leave that . we'll leave that door open .	bf:好的點子 , 讓我們離開 。 我們會離開那門 。
dh: he's looking at me .	dh:他看著我 。
bf: that's all right , he does that . all right .	布:沒關係 , 沒錯 , 沒錯 。
dh: oh ! it's time for richard's help .	dh:喔 ! 這時候是理查•科特的幫忙 。
oh , good . all right .	喔 , 好 , 好的 。
bf: you know , over the years , every year at the conference , it's kind of become a tradition for us to do something dangerous with richard . and we've always done something with the bullwhips in our act . it's funny , for years i did it with daniel holding balloons .	布:你知道嗎 , 每一年 , 每次會議裡 , 都變成了一種傳統 , 為了富豪做一些危險的事 。 我們總是在我們的行為中做一些事 。 很有趣的是 , 我用丹尼爾拿著氣球做好幾年 。
and then we thought , " how stupid . "	然後我們想: 「 愚蠢 。 」
dh: excuse me , could we work on the design of the microphone ?	dh:對我來說 , 我們能否在麥克風的設計上工作嗎 ?
bf: i think that's the next session .	布:我認為這是下一個會議 。
bf: yeah . and so we've actually found a way to incorporate richard in this .	布:是的 , 所以我們發現了一種方法 , 以此為基礎 。
he actually assumes more of the danger in this .	其實他會覺得更危險 。
dh: please stand up , richard .	dh:請站起來 , 理查 。
dh: now richard , please . . .	dh:現在理查 , 請...
bf: ok , sorry .	很抱歉 。
dh: jesus christ . richard , please stand in front of me .	dh:耶穌基督 , 理查 , 請站在我面前 。
richard wurman: can i say something ?	理查•沃曼:我可以說什麼嗎 ?
rw: in all past years i've rehearsed with them , the things that have happened to me i have no idea what's going to happen and that's the truth .	理:在過去的幾年裡 , 我和他們有關 , 發生在我身上的事 , 我不知道會發生什麼事 , 那是真相 。
dh: all right , please stand here in front . . .	dh:好的 , 請站在這裡......
god , i hate that . put your hands out like this , please .	上帝 , 我討厭這一點 。 把你的手放出來 , 請你 。
bf: no , come stay up with him .	bf:不 , 來跟他一起 。
dan used to actually hold them but now he's got you for protection .	丹曾經真的握住他們 , 但現在他要給你保護 。
it's kind of neat . ok .	這有點奇妙 。 好 。
dh: wow , you've been working out .	dh:哇 , 你已經成功了 。
bf: no , shut up !	bf:不 , 閉嘴 !
having a little bit of richard time . that's nice , that's good .	有一點點理查的時間 , 很棒 , 很好 。
ok , here we go .	好 , 我們來了 。
have him hold your wrist so i can . . .	請他抓住你的手腕 , 我可以......
dh: please hold my wrist , will you . bf: yeah , hold this a minute .	dh:請抱著我的手腕 , 請你 。 bf:是的 , 抱著這一分鐘 。
ok , hold on .	好 , 等等 。
bf: all those midyear phone calls are coming back to me now , richard .	bf:所有那些中年的電話都回來了 , 理查 。
dh: so richard , what were we on the list ? like 1 , 020 ?	dh:理查 , 我們在清單上是什麼 ? 例如1 , 020 ?
bf: i think we were just outside .	布:我想我們只是在外面 。
dh: sorry . bf: having some bad flashbacks .	嗯 , 很抱歉 。 bf:有一些壞的閃爍 。
rw: do you want me to hold you or not ? dh: don't hold me that hard .	理:你希望我能抱著你嗎 ? dh:別抱住我 。
bf: here we go , i'm taking it .	bf:我們來了 , 我拿它了 。
dh: one more , one more .	dh:再來一次 , 再來一次 。
bf: we've got one more we're going to do .	布:我們有更多我們要做的事 。
rw: do i get to hold them ?	理:我能抓住他們嗎 ?
bf: you don't want to hold these , trust me .	bf:你不想抱著這些 , 相信我 。
dh: could you spread your legs a little bit ?	dh:你能不能稍微擴散你的腿嗎 ?
bf: gloria , you want to do it ? it's very cool .	bf:gloria , 你想做嗎 ? 很酷 。
one more try . man , i don't want to get too close .	再試一次 , 男人 , 我不想太靠近 。
could you just push that ?	你能不能把這個推出去嗎 ?
dh: wow ! boy !	哇 ! 男孩 !
bf: that's cool . i always wanted to try that .	bf:那很酷 , 我總是想要試試 。
dh: let's jump this way , though .	dh:讓我們以這種方式跳舞 。
now , we risked richard's life , it's only fair we risk our own lives .	現在 , 我們冒了理查的生命 , 只是我們冒著自己的生命 。
so to do that , i will juggle these three razorsharp sickles .	為了做到這一點 , 我會抓住這三隻老鼠的生病 。
and if that wasn't enough , and judging by your response , it's not . . .	如果這還不夠 , 用你的反應來評斷 , 那不是......
dh: wow ! bf: hoping for a little more build .	dh:哇 ! bf:希望更多的建設 。
dh: true . barry . . .	dh:是的 , bry......
bf: i'm going to run up behind him .	布:我要在他背後跑 。
dh: leap over my shoulder .	dh:在我的肩膀上跳躍 。
bf: up and over his shoulders .	布魯夫:站起來 , 在他的肩膀上 。
dh: grab the blades in midair , land right there in a pool of blood . . .	dh:在中期 , 抓住這張陰影 , 降落在血液裡......
impossible , you say ?	不可能 , 你會說嗎 ?
bf: incredible , you say ?	很不可思議 , 你會說嗎 ?
dh: why bother , you say ?	dh:為什麼兩者 , 你會說 ?
bf: here we go .	bf:我們來了 。
dh: just do it juggler boys , you say ?	dh:那就是joggler男孩 , 你會說嗎 ?
bf: this guy , this guy invented air .	布:這傢伙發明了空氣 。
dh: i think so , that's right .	dh:我認為這是對的 。
bf: he invented the pencil .	布:他發明了鉛筆 。
dh: all right , we'll do this trick , but please remember it took us over 10 years to perfect .	dh:好的 , 我們會做這個試驗 , 但請記住它花了十年才能完美 。
bf: ten years to perfect , which you're about to see .	bf:10年到完美 , 你將要看到 。
dh: it's not that difficult , we just don't like to practice that much .	dh:這不太困難 , 我們只是不想做那麼多 。
bf: no , it's a hassle . traveling too much .	不 , 沒有 , 旅行太多 。
actually , we will take a second to prove this could be fake that the blades are indeed razorsharp .	事實上 , 我們要花一秒的時間來證明 , 這可能是假的 , 火焰的確是雷射的 。
dh: will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage ?	dh:有人願意把一個小農場的動物丟到舞台上 ?
or a virgin for a sacrifice ?	或者 , 為了犧牲一個犧牲 ?
bf: no , she's got . . . farm animal .	bf:不 , 她有了 , 農夫動物 。
dh: do you have a small farm animal ?	dh:你有小農場的動物嗎 ?
just trying to play the odds . all right , here we go .	試試玩奇怪 , 好吧 , 我們來了 。
bf: over the top , over the top .	布:在頂端 , 上方 。
dh: how you feeling , barry ? you feeling all right ?	dh:你感覺如何 , 芭蕾 ? 你感覺好嗎 ?
bf: yeah , it's all right .	布:是的 , 沒錯 。
dh: do you feel everything's ok ? the atmosphere , the . . .	dh:你覺得一切都沒關係嗎 ? 大氣 , ......
bf: yeah , a little sketchy .	bf:是的 , 一個小小的軟體 。
dh: everything up here's ok ?	dh:一切都沒關係嗎 ?
dh: then here we go .	dh:我們來了 。
bf: this one's a little . . . who's doing the lights ? could you point that a little more directly into my eyeballs ? is that possible ? i can still see a little .	布:這個小點 , 誰在做燈 ? 你能指出 , 更直接進入我的眼球嗎 ? 可以嗎 ? 我還能看到一點點 。
dh: and turn up the intensity ; we're still pink in the middle .	dh:然後轉向強度 , 我們還是在中間的粉紅色 。
we went too far .	我們走得太遠 。
bf: yeah , it's too far . it's too much of a visual .	布:是的 , 太遠了 , 太多視覺了 。
the design of the body is a whole different thing .	身體的設計是完全不同的 。
dh: ready , barry ? bf: over the top .	dh:準備好了 , bf:在頂端 。
dh: may we have our jumping music please ?	dh:我們可能有我們的跳躍音樂嗎 ?
may we have it a bit louder ?	或許我們有一點大聲嗎 ?
bf: they're a good crew ! whoa !	bf:他們是好的crew ! 哇 !
dh: whoa , sorry . all right .	嗯 , 抱歉 , 沒錯 。
bf: we're going on .	bf:我們正在進行 。
dh: all right , we'll try again .	dh:好的 , 我們再試一次 。
bf: all right ? oh my gosh . oh .	bf:好嗎 ? 喔 , 喔 。
dh: all right , here we go . sorry about that .	嗯 , 好 , 抱歉 。
bf: i thought i had the hard part . ok .	布:我覺得我有困難的部分 。 好 。
dh: whenever you're ready .	dh:每當你準備好的時候 。
bf: there we go !	bf:我們去了 !
all right , get up ! come on and dance ! dh: dance , come on . bf: come on and dance !	好的 , 上來吧 ! 來吧 ! 跳舞 ! 舞 , 來吧 ! 跳舞 ! 舞一下 !
somebody dance ! come on !	有人跳舞 ! 來吧 !
wow , wow , ok , stop .	哇 , 哇 , 好 , 停下來 。
weird , no one dances . we're two guys doing this .	奇怪的 , 沒有人的舞蹈 。 我們是兩個人在做這件事 。
i think that's uncomfortable for everyone .	我認為這對每個人來說不舒服 。
dh: the french judge . . .	dh:法國法官......
bf: one more quick thing .	bf:一個更快的事 。
dh: the french judge gives it a 5 . 2 .	dh:法國法官給了5.2 。
bf: well , you know . . .	bf:嗯 , 你知道的......
dh: there you go . . . bf: oh , yeah . another one coming in .	dh:你去了 , bf:噢 , 另外一個人來了 。
dh: tell them about our bio and stuff .	dh:告訴他們我們的生物和東西 。
bf: yeah . in our bio , some of you may have read that we've won two world juggling championships .	布:是的 , 在我們的生物裡有些人可能已經讀過 , 我們贏得了兩個世界冠軍 。
and believe it or not , you don't win juggling champions for doing things with bullwhips or shaker cups .	相信 , 或不相信 , 你不會贏得冠軍的冠軍 , 來做一些事 , 或打破杯子 。
we're going to show you right now an excerpt from a routine that we used to wipe out the other juggling team competition .	我們現在要向各位展示一個路徑 , 從我們習慣的路線上展現出其他的葡萄糖團隊競爭 。
dh: i know what you're thinking: other juggling teams must really suck .	dh:我知道你在想什麼:其他駭客團隊一定會真的很糟糕 。
bf: juggling's got a bad rap .	bf:juggging的強暴是不好的 。
dh: but wait , barry , there's still one more club lying there by my foot .	dh:但等等 , barry , 我的腳還剩下更多的俱樂部 。
and look , it has a twin !	看 , 它有雙胞胎 !
dh: there's still one more by my foot .	dh:我的腳還有一個 。
what do you want me to do with it ?	你希望我能怎麼做 ?
bf: richard you tell him , it's your last year .	布:理查 , 你告訴他 , 這是你的去年 。
dh: that's a pretty good setup , richard .	dh:那是個很棒的成果 , 理查 。
bf: yeah , it's a good setup . that's a big setup .	布:是的 , 這是個好的組合 。 這是個大組 。
dh: you can't get any better than that . all right . what i will do: i will use my pantherlike reflexes .	dh:你不能比這更好 。 好 。 我會做什麼:我會用我的胰臟反射 。
dh: i got that to reach down and grab that club in my grip of steel .	dh:我接到到那邊 , 抓住我的鋼鐵 。
dh: i touched it , barry . that should be enough .	dh:我碰到它 , bry , 應該夠了 。
bf: it's progress , that's the thing .	bf:這是進步 , 就是這樣 。
dh: how about that ? i'll do it again .	dh:如何 ? 我再做一次 。
oh wait , it's on your side , barry .	喔 , 等等 , 你的一邊 , 芭蕾 。
and it's awfully windy over there .	而那邊是很糟糕的風力 。
bf: it is , it's weird . you wouldn't think it would affect half the stage , but it is . it's weird .	布:它是奇怪的 , 你不認為它會影響半個階段 , 但它是奇怪的 。
watch this: what i'm going to do is slide the seventh one onto my foot .	看看這點:我要做的是把七個投影片投到我的腳上 。
dh: wow ! what a great trick , barry !	dh:哇 ! 哇 ! 很棒 , 貝瑞 !
oh , look how it lies there .	喔 , 看看它是怎麼說的 。
oh , barry , is there nothing you can't do ?	喔 , 貝瑞 , 你不能做什麼嗎 ?
you are my hero . you're my jim shea , jr .	你是我的英雄 。 你是我的吉姆•艾拉 , jr 。
bf: from my foot , i'll attempt to kick the seventh club . here we go .	bf:從我的腳開始 , 我會試著去踢第七個俱樂部 。 我們來了 。
dh: where , barry ? where ? tell us , barry .	dh:在哪裡 ? barry ? 告訴我們 , bry 。
[unclear] eagerly awaits your next syllable . what will it be ?	「 阿姨 」 等於你下一步意識到你的下一步 。 它會是什麼 ?
what gem of knowledge ?	知識的是什麼樣子 ?
what pearl of wisdom ?	什麼樣的智慧 ?
do you want to buy a vowel , barry ?	你想買一支vel , barry嗎 ?
is that your final answer ?	你的最後答案是嗎 ?
bf: all right ! you have to turn off the tv from time to time .	bf:好的 ! 你必須從時間轉移到電視 。
dh: i do , i do .	dh:我真的 , 我是這樣 。
bf: from my foot , the kick up in the seven .	bf:從我的腳開始 , 七歲的踢了 。
dh: we will juggle seven .	dh:我們會抓七個 。
bf: from six to seven . dh: that's a world's record . bf: really ? dh: for us .	bf:從6到7 。 dh:這是世界的紀錄 。 bf:真的嗎 ? 嗯 , 對我們來說 。
dh: whenever you're ready there , big guy .	dh:每當你準備好了 , 大傢伙 。
put your tongue away , barry .	把你的舌頭放掉 , 芭蕾 。
bf: oh , oh , whoa .	bf:喔 , 喔 , 喔 , 誰 。
dh: please , please stay seated . stay seated . thank you .	dh:拜託 , 請留下來 , 留下來 。 謝謝 。
because now , to make this twice as difficult , we'll juggle the seven clubs back . . .	因為現在 , 要讓這兩倍的困難 , 我們會把七個俱樂部拿回來......
dh: . . . to back .	嗯 , 回回來 。
bf: thank you , that's it .	布:謝謝你 , 就是這樣 。
bf: thank you guys !	bf:謝謝你們 !
dh: thank you very much !	dh:非常謝謝你 !
in this accessible talk from tedxboston , richard resnick shows how cheap and fast genome sequencing is about to turn health care upside down .	在tedxboston的接觸演講中 , 理查•雷尼克展示了如何便宜且快速的基因序列是將健康照護轉移到下面 。
dna , biotech , health care , science , technology	dna、生物技術、健康照護、科學、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技 。
richard resnick: welcome to the genomic revolution	理查•雷尼克:歡迎來到基因革命的革命 。
ladies and gentlemen , i present to you the human genome .	各位先生女士 , 我向各位展示了人類基因組 。
chromosome one , top left .	染色體是左上方的 。
bottom right are the sex chromosomes .	右下面是性染色體 。
women have two copies of that big x chromosome ; men have the x and , of course , that small copy of the y .	女性有兩份大x染色體 , 男人有x , 當然 , 那個小小的複製品 。
sorry boys , but it's just a tiny little thing that makes you different .	抱歉男孩 , 但這只是個小小小的小東西讓你不同 。
so if you zoom in on this genome , then what you see , of course , is this double helix structure the code of life spelled out with these four biochemical letters , or we call them bases , right: a , c , g and t .	所以 , 如果你放大這個基因組 , 你當然看到的 , 就是這個二氧化碳結構 , 生物化學字母的密碼 , 或我們稱之為基礎:a、g和t 。
how many are there in the human genome ? three billion .	在人類基因組中有多少人 ? 三十億人 。
is that a big number ?	那是個大數字嗎 ?
well , everybody can throw around big numbers .	嗯 , 每個人都可以在大數字上扔 。
but in fact , if i were to place one base on each pixel of this 1280 by 800 resolution screen , we would need 3 , 000 screens to take a look at the genome .	但事實上 , 如果我在這個12800年的每一塊像素上放一個鹼基 , 我們需要3千個螢幕 , 來看看基因 。
so it's really quite big .	這真的很大 。
and perhaps because of its size , a group of people all , by the way , with y chromosomes decided they would want to sequence it .	或許是因為它的大小 , 一群人 , 順便說一下 , y染色體決定要將它定序 。
and so 15 years , actually , and about four billion dollars later , the genome was sequenced and published .	所以 , 15年後 , 大約四十億美金 , 基因組被定序並發表了 。
in 2003 , the final version was published , and they keep working on it .	2003年 , 最後的版本出版了 , 他們一直在努力 。
that was all done on a machine that looks like this .	這一切都在一個像這樣的機器上完成 。
it costs about a dollar for each base a very slow way of doing it .	每一塊鹼基的花費很慢 , 就能花費一塊錢 。
well folks , i'm here to tell you that the world has completely changed and none of you know about it .	嗯 , 我在這裡告訴各位 , 世界已經完全改變了 , 沒有人知道它 。
so now what we do is we take a genome , we make maybe 50 copies of it , we cut all those copies up into little 50base reads , and then we sequence them , massively parallel .	我們現在做的是把基因組做五十個複製 , 我們把這些複製成五十巴士讀完 , 然後我們將它們排序 , 大量的平行 。
and then we bring that into software , and we reassemble it and we tell you what the story is .	然後我們把這帶到軟體上 , 我們將它組合起來 , 告訴你們這個故事是什麼 。
and so just to give you a picture of what this looks like , the human genome project: 3 gigabases , right .	所以 , 給大家一張圖片 , 人類基因組計畫:3gigabes , 沒錯 。
one run on one of these machines: 200 gigabases in a week .	其中一個機器之一:一週內有200個gigabes 。
and that 200 is going to change to 600 this summer , and there's no sign of this pace slowing .	今年夏天將改變600年 , 沒有這種速度緩慢的跡象 。
so the price of a base , to sequence a base , has fallen 100 million times .	所以 , 基礎的價格 , 以定序一個基礎 , 已經下降了一億次 。
that's the equivalent of you filling up your car with gas in 1998 , waiting until 2011 , and now you can drive to jupiter and back twice .	這等於你在1998年把你的汽車裝滿了氣體 , 等到2011年 , 等到2011年 , 你可以開車到木星 , 兩倍 。
world population , pc placements , the archive of all the medical literature , moore's law , the old way of sequencing , and here's all the new stuff .	世界人口 , 價格 , 所有醫學文獻、摩爾法律、舊的定律 , 這是所有新東西 。
guys , this is a log scale ; you don't typically see lines that go up like that .	各位 , 這是個邏輯尺寸 ; 你通常會看到像這樣的線條 。
so the worldwide capacity to sequence human genomes is something like 50 , 000 to 100 , 000 human genomes this year .	所以 , 今年 , 人類基因組的能力是五萬到十萬人的基因組 。
and we know this based on the machines that are being placed .	我們也知道這些基於被放置的機器 。
this is expected to double , triple or maybe quadruple year over year for the foreseeable future .	這期待要兩倍、三倍、三倍、三倍或三倍的未來 。
in fact , there's one lab in particular that represents 20 percent of all that capacity .	事實上 , 有一個實驗室尤其代表了20%的能力 。
it's called the beijing genomics institute .	它叫做 「 北京基因組組織 」 。
the chinese are absolutely winning this race to the new moon , by the way .	中國人絕對贏得這場新月球 , 順便一提 。
what does this mean for medicine ?	這對醫學有什麼意義 ?
so a woman is age 37 .	一個女人是37歲 。
she presents with stage 2 estrogen receptorpositive breast cancer .	她展示了舞台2的雌激素接受乳癌 。
she is treated with surgery , chemotherapy and radiation .	她在治療手術、化療和輻射 。
two years later , she comes back with stage three c ovarian cancer .	兩年後 , 她回來了三階段三度卵巢癌 。
unfortunately , treated again with surgery and chemotherapy .	不幸的是 , 再次用手術和化療治療 。
she comes back three years later at age 42 with more ovarian cancer , more chemotherapy .	她三年後回來了42歲 , 用更多的卵巢癌 , 更多的化療 。
six months later , she comes back with acute myeloid leukemia .	六個月後 , 她又回來了阿姆斯托爾•萊姆尼亞 。
she goes into respiratory failure and dies eight days later .	她接到呼吸失敗 , 八天後就死了 。
so first , the way in which this woman was treated , in as little as 10 years , will look like bloodletting .	首先 , 這位女士被治療的方式 , 在十年內 , 會看起來像血液 。
and it's because of people like my colleague , rick wilson , at the genome institute at washington university , who decided to take a look at this woman postmortem .	是因為像我同事rickwilson , 在華盛頓大學的基因學院 , 他們決定去看這位女子後期的事件 。
and he sequenced , he took skin cells , healthy skin , and cancerous bone marrow , and he sequenced the whole genomes of both of them in a couple of weeks , no big deal .	他定序了 , 他拿著皮膚細胞 , 健康皮膚 , 及癌症骨髓 , 他在幾週內排序了整個基因組 , 沒有大問題 。
and then he compared those two genomes in software , and what he found , among other things , was a deletion , a 2 , 000base deletion across three billion bases in a particular gene called tp53 .	然後他把這兩個基因和軟體相比 , 他發現 , 其它東西中 , 一個部落 , 一兩千個鹼基 , 一個叫做tp53的基因 。
if you have this deleterious mutation in this gene , you're 90 percent likely to get cancer in your life .	若你在這個基因中有這種細微的突變 , 你就有90%的可能性能在你生命中得到癌症 。
so unfortunately , this doesn't help this woman , but it does have severe , profound if you will , implications to her family .	所以 , 不幸的是 , 這不幫助這位女子 , 但如果你願意 , 更加嚴重 , 更深刻的影響了她的家人 。
i mean , if they have the same mutation , and they get this genetic test , and they understand it , then they can go and get regular screens , and they can catch cancer early and potentially live a significantly longer life .	我的意思是 , 如果有相同的突變 , 它們會得到基因測試 , 然後他們了解它 , 那麼他們就能得到一般的螢幕 , 牠們可以捕捉癌症 , 甚至可能活得更久 。
let me introduce you now to the beery twins , diagnosed with cerebral palsy at the age of two .	讓我介紹一下beery雙胞胎 , 診斷出兩個年齡的胚胎 。
their mom is a very brave woman who didn't believe that the symptoms weren't matching up , and through some heroic efforts and a lot of internet searching , she was able to convince the medical community that , in fact , they had something else .	她們的媽媽是非常勇敢的女人 , 不相信症狀不會上升 , 透過一些英雄的努力和許多網路搜尋 , 她能夠說服醫學社群 , 事實上 , 他們有別的東西 。
what they had was doparesponsive dystonia .	他們所擁有的 , 是兩者的動態症 。
and so they were given ldopa , and their symptoms did improve , but they weren't totally asymptomatic .	所以他們被給了 , 他們的症狀已經改善了 , 但他們沒有完全模糊的 。
turns out the gentleman in this picture is a guy named joe beery , who was lucky enough to be the cio of a company called life technologies .	結果發現 , 這張圖中有一位叫joebeery的傢伙 , 他很幸運成為一個叫做生命技術的小組 。
they're one of the two companies that makes these massive whole genome sequencing tools .	他們是這兩個公司之一 , 讓這些大型基因組定序工具完成 。
and so what he did was he got his kids sequenced .	他做的是 , 他得到了他的孩子的序列 。
and what they found was a series of mutations in a gene called spr , which is responsible for producing serotonin , among other things .	他們發現的是一系列的突變 , 叫做 「 春天 」 的基因 , 負責在其它東西中產生血清素 。
so on top of ldopa , they gave these kids a serotonin precursor drug , and they're effectively normal now .	所以 , 在盧比亞頂端 , 他們給了這些孩子一個半子的先鋒藥 , 他們現在是正常的 。
guys , this would never have happened without whole genome sequencing .	男士 , 這永遠不會發生任何基因序列 。
and at the time this was a few years ago it cost $100 , 000 .	在幾年前 , 當時 , 花了十萬美金 。
today it's $10 , 000 . next year it's $1 , 000 .	今天是一萬美金 。 明年 , 一千美金 。
the year after it's $100 , give or take a year .	一百美金之後的一年 , 或花一年 。
that's how fast this is moving .	這就是移動速度的速度 。
so here's little nick likes batman and squirt guns .	這裡有個小小的尼克 , 像蝙蝠俠和安靜槍枝 。
and it turns out nick shows up at the children's hospital with this distended belly like a famine victim .	結果發現 , 尼克在兒童醫院的醫院裡 , 像一個家庭受害者一樣 。
and it's not that he's not eating , it's that when he eats , his intestine basically opens up and feces spill out into his gut .	不是他不吃東西 , 而是當他吃飯時 , 他的腸道基本上會打開 , 把藥送到他的腸子裡 。
so a hundred surgeries later , he looks at his mom and says , " mom , please pray for me . i'm in so much pain . "	一百多次手術 , 他看著他的媽媽說: 「 媽 , 拜託我禱告 。 我很痛苦 。 」
his pediatrician happens to have a background in clinical genetics and he has no idea what's going on , but he says , " let's get this kid's genome sequenced . "	他的小兒科醫師在臨床遺傳學中有背景 , 他不知道發生了什麼事 , 但他說: 「 我們來讓這個孩子的基因序列 。 」
and what they find is a singlepoint mutation in a gene responsible for controlling programmed cell death .	他們發現 , 基因中一個單一的突變 , 可以控制程式細胞死亡 。
so the theory is that he's having some immunological reaction to what's going on to the food essentially , and that's a natural reaction , which causes some programmed cell death .	所以理論是 , 他有一些免疫的反應 , 基本上是對食物的影響 , 這是一種自然反應 , 造成一些編程的細胞死亡 。
but the gene that regulates that down is broken .	但 , 規範下面的基因是破壞的 。
and so this informs , among other things , of course , a treatment for bone marrow transplant , which he undertakes .	當然 , 這種資訊 , 包括其他東西 , 當然 , 骨髓移植的治療方式 , 他在底下 。
and after nine months of grueling recovery , he's now eating steak with a1 sauce .	過了九個月後 , 他現在就吃了1個沙漠 。
the prospect of using the genome as a universal diagnostic is upon us today .	用基因組作為一個普通的診斷方式 , 正是我們今天的 。
today , it's here .	今天 , 在這裡 。
and what it means for all of us is that everybody in this room could live an extra five , 10 , 20 years just because of this one thing .	對我們所有人來說 , 就是在這個房間裡每個人都能活出五、十年、二十年 , 只因為這一件事 。
which is a fantastic story , unless you think about humanity's footprint on the planet and our ability to keep up food production .	這是個很棒的故事 , 除非你想著人類的足跡 , 以及我們能保持食物生產的能力 。
so it turns out that the very same technology is also being used to grow new lines of corn , wheat , soybean and other crops that are highly tolerant of drought , of flood , of pests and pesticides .	結果發現 , 同樣的技術也被用來培養玉米、玉米、豆、和其他農作物 , 高度的乾旱、森林和殺蟲劑 。
now look , as long as we continue to increase the population , we're going to have to continue to grow and eat genetically modified foods , and that's the only position that i'll take today .	看 , 只要我們繼續增加人口 , 我們就得繼續成長 , 吃遺傳的食物 , 這也是我今天所需要的唯一位置 。
unless there's anybody in the audience that would like to volunteer to stop eating ?	除非有任何人願意自願的觀眾 , 要停止吃東西 ?
none , not one .	沒有 , 不是一個 。
this is a typewriter , a staple of every desktop for decades .	這是個字型 , 數十年來 , 每個桌子的形式 。
and in fact , the typewriter was essentially deleted by this thing .	事實上 , 這個字體基本上是被這個東西所刪除的 。
and then more general versions of word processors came about .	接著 , 更廣泛的詞彙處理器出現了 。
but ultimately , it was a disruption on top of a disruption .	但最終 , 它的破壞性就在破壞之上 。
it was bob metcalfe inventing the ethernet and the connection of all these computers that fundamentally changed everything .	它是bobfe發明了數學和所有這些電腦的連結 , 基本上改變了一切 。
and suddenly we had netscape , and we had yahoo and we had , indeed , the entire dotcom bubble .	突然間 , 我們有了ncape , 我們有了yahoo , 我們的確 , 整個圓泡泡 。
not to worry though , that was quickly rescued by the ipod , facebook and , indeed , angry birds .	不用擔心 , 這很快被ipod、facebook和臉書救援 , 確實是生氣鳥 。
look , this is where we are today .	看 , 這是我們今天的位置 。
this is the genomic revolution today . this is where we are .	這是現今的基因革命 。 這是我們所在的地方 。
so what i'd like you to consider is: what does it mean when these dots don't represent the individual bases of your genome , but they connect to genomes all across the planet ?	所以 , 我想要你們想說的是:當這些點不代表你的基因組的個體基礎 , 但它們連結到地球各地的基因組呢 ?
so i just recently had to buy life insurance .	所以 , 我最近要買生命保險 。
and i was required to answer: a . i have never had a genetic test , b . i've had one , here you go , and c . i've had one and i'm not telling .	我需要回答:a 。 我從來沒有基因測試 , b.b.我這裡有一個 , 你來了 , c.c.我有一個 , 我沒有說話 。
thankfully , i was able to answer a , and i say that honestly in case my life insurance agent is listening .	謝天謝地 , 我可以回答一個 , 我說 , 老實說 , 我的人生保險員正在聆聽 。
but what would have happened if i had said c ?	但如果我說c , 會發生什麼事 ?
consumer applications for genomics , they will flourish .	消費者用在基因組上 , 牠們會漂浮 。
do you want to see whether you're genetically compatible with your girlfriend ? sure .	你想知道你是否與你的女友有遺傳性嗎 ? 當然嗎 ?
dna sequencing on your iphone ? there's an app for that .	dna在你的iphone上定序嗎 ? 有一個應用程式 。
personalized genomic massage anyone ?	個人化基因組質量任何人嗎 ?
there's already a lab today that tests for allele 334 of the avpr1 gene , the socalled cheating gene .	今天已經有一項實驗室測試了334個基因 , 所謂的 「 作弊基因 」 的基因 。
so anybody who's here today with your significant other , just turn over to them and swab their mouth , send it to the lab and you'll know for sure .	所以 , 今天 , 任何在場的人 , 只會把嘴巴轉向他們 , 把嘴巴送到實驗室 , 你一定會知道 。
do you really want to elect a president whose genome suggests cardiomyopathy ?	你真的想選一個總統 , 誰的基因組建議心臟病源嗎 ?
now think of it , it's 2016 and the leading candidate releases not only her four years of back tax returns , but also her personal genome .	試想一下 , 它是2016年和領導候選人釋放 , 不只是她四年後的稅收回報 , 還有她的個人基因組 。
and it looks really good .	這看起來很棒 。
and then she challenges all of her competitors to do the same .	然後她挑戰了她所有的競爭者 , 去做同樣的事 。
do you think that's not going to happen ?	你認為這不會發生嗎 ?
do you think it would have helped john mccain ?	你覺得這會幫助約翰麥可嗎 ?
how many people in the audience have the last name resnick like me ? raise your hand .	觀眾中有多少人有像我一樣的名字 ? 請舉手 。
typically , there's one or two .	通常 , 有一或二 。
so my father's father was one of 10 resnick brothers .	我的父親是十名尼克兄弟之一 。
they all hated each other .	他們都討厭彼此 。
and they all moved to different parts of the planet .	他們都搬到地球不同的區域 。
so it's likely that i'm related to every resnick that i ever meet , but i don't know .	所以 , 我很可能跟我遇過的每一批珊瑚礁有關 , 但我不知道 。
but imagine if my genome were deidentified , sitting in software , and a third cousin's genome was also sitting there , and there was software that could compare these two and make these associations .	但想像一下 , 如果我的基因組被定罪了 , 坐在軟體上 , 第三個表親基因組也坐在那邊 , 有一個軟體可以比較 , 讓這兩種連結 。
not hard to imagine . my company has software that does this right now .	不難想像 , 我的公司現在有軟體 。
and so imagine one more thing: that that software is able to ask both parties for mutual consents , " would you be willing to meet your third cousin ? "	再想像一下 , 軟體可以要求雙方的組合 , 「 你願意見你的第三個表親嗎 ? 」
and if we both say yes , voila ! welcome to chromosomally linkedin .	如果我們都說是的 , voila ! 歡迎來到染色體上 。
now this is probably a good thing , right ?	這可能是件好事 , 對吧 ?
you have bigger clan gatherings and so on .	你有更大的清理聚會等等 。
but maybe it's a bad thing as well .	但也許這也是一件壞事 。
how many fathers in the room ? raise your hands .	房間裡有多少父親 ? 請舉手 。
okay , so experts think that one to three percent of you are not actually the father of your child .	好 , 專家認為 , 只有百分之三的人不是你的孩子的父親 。
look these genomes , these 23 chromosomes , they don't in any way represent the quality of our relationships or the nature of our society at least not yet .	看看這些基因 , 這23個染色體 , 他們不用任何方式代表我們關係的品質 , 或社會的本質 。
and like any new technology , it's really in humanity's hands to wield it for the betterment of mankind , or not .	就像任何新的科技一樣 , 它真的在人類的手上 , 為人類更好的人類 。
and so i urge you all to wake up and to tune in and to influence the genomic revolution that's happening all around you .	所以 , 我向各位鼓勵大家醒來 , 來影響你周遭發生的基因革命 。
daniel kraft demos his marrow miner a new device that quickly harvests lifesaving bone marrow with minimal pain to the donor . he emphasizes that the adult stem cells found in bone marrow can be used to treat many terminal conditions , from parkinson's to heart disease .	丹尼爾•克拉夫•米爾•米爾 , 一個新裝置 , 很快地收集生命 , 留下骨頭的痛苦 。 他強調 , 在骨髓中 , 成人的幹細胞可以被用來治療許多條件 , 從帕金森到心臟疾病 。
biology , biotech , health , health care , medicine , science , technology	生物學、生物技術、健康、醫療、醫學、科學、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、生物技術、生物技術、
daniel kraft invents a better way to harvest bone marrow	丹尼爾克拉夫發明了更好的方法 , 用來收集骨髓的骨髓 。
so i am a pediatric cancer doctor and stemcell researcher at stanford university where my clinical focus has been bone marrow transplantation .	所以 , 我是醫學醫師和史丹佛大學的研究者 , 我的臨床專注專注是骨髓移植 。
now , inspired by jill bolte taylor last year , i didn't bring a human brain , but i did bring a liter of bone marrow .	去年 , jillboltetylor的啟發 , 我沒有帶人腦 , 但我做了個骨髓的解答 。
and bone marrow is actually what we use to save the lives of tens of thousands of patients , most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphoma and some other diseases .	骨髓其實是我們用來拯救數十萬個病人的生命 , 大部分的病患都有進步的魔法 , 例如白血病和淋巴和其他疾病 。
so , a few years ago , i'm doing my transplant fellowship at stanford .	所以 , 幾年前 , 我在史丹佛大學做移植 。
i'm in the operating room . we have bob here , who is a volunteer donor .	我在手術室裡 , 我們這裡有炸彈 , 他是一位志工捐贈者 。
we're sending his marrow across the country to save the life of a child with leukemia .	我們將他的標記送到全國各地 , 來拯救一個患有白血病的孩子 。
so actually how do we harvest this bone marrow ?	那麼 , 我們要如何收集這塊骨髓呢 ?
well we have a whole o . r . team , general anesthesia , nurses , and another doctor across from me .	嗯 , 我們有一個全部的o.r.團隊 , 一般麻醉 , 護士 , 另一位醫生在我身邊 。
bob's on the table , and we take this sort of small needle , you know , not too big .	炸彈在桌上 , 我們採用這種小針頭 , 不太大 。
and the way we do this is we basically place this through the soft tissue , and kind of punch it into the hard bone , into the tuchus that's a technical term and aspirate about 10 mls of bone marrow out , each time , with a syringe .	我們的做法基本上是透過軟組織 , 把它放進硬骨頭裡 , 到技術上 , 並且啟發大約十個骨髓 , 每次都有yr.
and hand it off to the nurse . she squirts it into a tin .	把牠拿到護士 , 把牠放到一個小小 。
hands it back to me . and we do that again and again .	把它拿回我 。 我們再做一次 。
about 200 times usually .	通常大約有200倍 。
and by the end of this my arm is sore , i've got a callus on my hand , let alone bob , whose rear end looks something more like this , like swiss cheese .	到了我的手臂結束時 , 我手上有一通電話 , 別說 , 小寶 , 他的尾端看起來更像瑞士 。
so i'm thinking , you know , this procedure hasn't changed in about 40 years .	所以我在想 , 你知道 , 這個程序在40年內就沒有改變了 。
and there is probably a better way to do this .	可能有更好的方法可以做到 。
so i thought of a minimally invasive approach , and a new device that we call the marrow miner .	所以我想到一個最小的侵略方式 , 一個我們稱之為 「 火星礦工 」 的新裝置 。
and the marrow miner , the way it works is shown here .	火星礦工 , 它的運作方式是在這裡的 。
our standard seethrough patient .	我們標準的病人 。
instead of entering the bone dozens of times , we enter just once , into the front of the hip or the back of the hip .	與其進入骨頭數十次 , 我們進入了一遍 , 進入髖骨的前方 , 或髖部的後面 。
and we have a flexible , powered catheter with a special wire loop tip that stays inside the crunchy part of the marrow and follows the contours of the hip , as it moves around .	我們有一個很有彈性的洞穴 , 有一個特殊的電路器 , 它會留在火星內部 , 沿著海嘯的背景 , 當它移動時 。
so it enables you to very rapidly aspirate , or suck out , rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole .	所以它能讓你很快速地激勵你 , 或出口 , 富人的骨髓很快地穿過一個洞 。
we can do multiple passes through that same entry .	我們可以透過相同的句子來做多個傳遞 。
and , so , very quickly , bob can just get one puncture , local anesthesia , and do this harvest as an outpatient .	所以 , 很快地 , 鮑勃可以得到一個特徵 , 當地的麻醉 , 做這種收穫 , 做成一個不安 。
so i did a few prototypes . i got a small little grant at stanford .	於是我做了一些原型 , 我在史丹佛的小小小的格子 。
and played around with this a little bit .	再玩一下 。
and our team members developed this technology .	我們的團隊成員開發了這項技術 。
and eventually we got two large animals , and pig studies .	最後 , 我們有兩個大型動物 , 和豬研究 。
and we found , to our surprise , that we not only got bone marrow out , but we got 10 times the stem cell activity in the marrow from the marrow miner , compared to the normal device .	我們發現 , 對於我們的驚訝 , 我們不只把骨髓拿出來 , 但我們收到一百倍的幹細胞活動 , 比起正常的裝置 。
this device was just fda approved in the last year .	這個裝置在去年就在fda申請了 。
here is a live patient . you can see it following the flexible curves around .	這裡是活的病患 , 你可以看到它跟著有彈性的曲線 。
there will be two passes here , in the same patient , from the same hole .	在同一個病人身上 , 會有兩條路 , 來自同一個洞 。
this was done under local anesthesia , as an outpatient .	在當地的麻醉下 , 做得很遠 。
and we got , again , about three to six times more stem cells than the standard approach done on the same patient .	我們再次接到 , 大約有三到六倍的幹細胞 , 比同一個病人的標準方法還要多 。
so why should you care ? bone marrow is a very rich source of adult stem cells .	所以 , 你為什麼要關心 ? 骨髓是非常富有的成年幹細胞 。
you all know about embryonic stem cells .	你們都知道胚胎幹細胞 。
they've got great potential but haven't yet entered clinical trials .	他們有很棒的潛力 , 但還沒有進入臨床試驗 。
adult stem cells are throughout our body , including the bloodforming stem cells in our bone marrow , which we've been using as a form of stemcell therapy for over 40 years .	成人幹細胞在我們的身體中 , 包括我們骨髓內的血液幹細胞 , 我們已經使用了一系列的幹細胞 , 已經超過四十年了 。
in the last decade there's been an explosion of use of bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient's other diseases such as heart disease , vascular disease , orthopedics , tissue engineering , even in neurology to treat parkinson's and diabetes .	過去十年間 , 骨髓幹細胞的爆炸 , 來治療病人的其他疾病 , 例如心臟病、血管疾病、組織工程 , 甚至在神經系統中治療帕金森和糖尿病 。
we've just come out , we're commercializing , this year , generation 2 . 0 of the marrow miner .	我們剛剛出去 , 我們是商業化的 , 今年 , 2.2.0人 。
the hope is that this gets more stem cells out , which translates to better outcomes .	希望是 , 這會變得更有幹細胞 , 轉換成更好的結果 。
it may encourage more people to sign up to be potential livesaving bone marrow donors .	可能會鼓勵更多人來簽署潛在生命的骨髓捐贈者 。
it may even enable you to bank your own marrow stem cells , when you're younger and healthier , to use in the future should you need it .	甚至可能讓你可以把你自己最小的幹細胞銀行 , 當你年輕的時候 , 在未來 , 用在你需要的未來 。
and ultimately and here's a picture of our bone marrow transplant survivors , who come together for a reunion each year at stanford .	最終 , 我們的骨髓移植倖存者的照片 , 每年都聚集在史丹佛的社區 。
hopefully this technology will let us have more of these survivors in the future .	希望這項技術能讓我們有更多這些倖存者 。
physicist and surfer garrett lisi presents a controversial new model of the universe that just maybe answers all the big questions . if nothing else , it's the most beautiful 8dimensional model of elementary particles and forces you've ever seen .	物理學家和外科醫師 , 展示了一場爭議的宇宙 , 或許可能回答所有大問題 。 如果沒有 , 它是最漂亮的八維粒子和強迫你所見的 。
physics , science , technology	物理、科學、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技 。
garrett lisi on his theory of everything	在他的理論中 , garretlitsi的理論上 , 每件事都在他的理論上 。
whoa , dude . check out those killer equations . sweet .	哇 , 鴨子 , 檢查那些殺人方程式 。
actually , for the next 18 minutes i'm going to do the best i can to describe the beauty of particle physics without equations .	事實上 , 接下來的十八分鐘 , 我要做最好的我可以描述粒子物理學的美麗 。
it turns out there's a lot we can learn from coral .	結果發現 , 我們能從珊瑚身上學到很多 。
coral is a very beautiful and unusual animal .	珊瑚是非常漂亮且不尋常的動物 。
each coral head consists of thousand of individual polyps .	每一根珊瑚頭包含了數千個個體 。
these polyps are continually budding and branching into genetically identical neighbors .	這些聚合物持續在突破和分散到遺傳的鄰居 。
if we imagine this to be a hyperintelligent coral , we can single out an individual and ask him a reasonable question .	如果我們想像這是個超級智慧的珊瑚 , 我們可以單獨出一個個體 , 問他一個合理的問題 。
we can ask how exactly he got to be in this particular location compared to his neighbors if it was just chance , or destiny , or what ?	我們可以問他是怎麼在這個特定的地點 , 比他鄰居的機會 , 或 「 命運 」 或 「 命運 」 ?
now , after admonishing us for turning the temperature up too high , he would tell us that our question was completely stupid .	現在 , 我們要把溫度太高 , 他會告訴我們 , 我們的問題是完全愚蠢的 。
these corals can be quite kind of mean , you see , and i have surfing scars to prove that .	這些珊瑚可以很有意義 , 你知道的 , 我很害怕證明這一點 。
but this polyp would continue and tell us that his neighbors were quite clearly identical copies of him .	但這會持續 , 告訴我們 , 他的鄰居很明顯地對他有相同的複製 。
that he was in all these other locations as well , but experiencing them as separate individuals .	他也在所有其他的地點中 , 但將它們分離為個人 。
for a coral , branching into different copies is the most natural thing in the world .	對珊瑚來說 , 分類成了不同的複製 , 是世界上最自然的東西 。
unlike us , a hyperintelligent coral would be uniquely prepared to understand quantum mechanics .	與我們不同 , 一個聰明的智商珊瑚會很獨特地準備去了解量子力學 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics very accurately describes how our universe works .	量子力學的數學非常準確地描述我們的宇宙如何運作 。
and it tells us our reality is continually branching into different possibilities , just like a coral .	它告訴我們我們的現實 , 不斷地分裂成不同的可能性 , 就像珊瑚一樣 。
it's a weird thing for us humans to wrap our minds around , since we only ever get to experience one possibility .	這對我們人類來說很奇怪 , 因為我們只有經驗到一個可能性 。
this quantum weirdness was first described by erwin schrödinger and his cat .	這種量子奇怪是首次描述 「 艾丁格斯•奧德斯和他的貓 」 。
the cat likes this version better .	像這種版本比較好 。
in this setup , schrödinger is in a box with a radioactive sample that , by the laws of quantum mechanics , branches into a state in which it is radiated and a state in which it is not .	在這個設備中 , chringinger在一個放射性樣本中 , 由量子力學的法則 , 排列成一個國家 , 不被放射線的狀態 。
in the branch in which the sample radiates , it sets off a trigger that releases poison and schrödinger is dead .	在這些樣本放射線的範圍中 , 它會發出一種觸發 , 釋放毒物和chringer是死的 。
but in the other branch of reality , he remains alive .	但在另一種現實中 , 他仍然活著 。
these realities are experienced separately by each individual .	這些現實都被每個人分開了 。
as far as either can tell , the other one doesn't exist .	儘管如此 , 另一種也不存在 。
this seems weird to us , because each of us only experiences an individual existence , and we don't get to see other branches .	這對我們來說很奇怪 , 因為我們每一個人只經歷一個個體存在 , 而我們沒有看到其他的分支 。
it's as if each of us , like schrödinger here , are a kind of coral branching into different possibilities .	就像我們每一個人一樣 , 像chrdorder , 是一種珊瑚在不同的可能性 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics tells us this is how the world works at tiny scales .	量子力學的數學告訴我們這個世界如何在微小的規模下運作 。
it can be summed up in a single sentence: everything that can happen , does .	它可能在單一句話中總結:所有能發生的一切 , 都能發生 。
but this does not mean everything happens .	但這並不意味著一切都發生了 。
the rest of physics is about describing what can happen and what can't .	其餘的物理是關於描述如何發生什麼事 , 以及什麼都不能 。
what physics tells us is that everything comes down to geometry and the interactions of elementary particles .	物理告訴我們 , 每件事都下降到幾何和元素的互動 。
and things can happen only if these interactions are perfectly balanced .	如果這些互動是完美的平衡 。
now i'll go ahead and describe how we know about these particles , what they are and how this balance works .	現在 , 我來描述我們對這些粒子的了解 , 它們是如何運作的 , 以及平衡如何運作的 。
in this machine , a beam of protons and antiprotons are accelerated to near the speed of light and brought together in a collision , producing a burst of pure energy .	在這個機器中 , 一個質子和抗素會加速到光速的速度 , 聚集在碰撞中 , 產生一種純能量的負擔 。
this energy is immediately converted into a spray of subatomic particles , with detectors and computers used to figure out their properties .	這種能量立即將將轉換成一個解剖粒子 , 用偵測器和電腦用來找出它們的特性 。
this enormous machine the large hadron collider at cern in geneva has a circumference of 17 miles and , when it's operating , draws five times as much power as the city of monterey .	這台巨大的機器 , 在基因va的cer對撞機有17英里的情況 , 當它運作時 , 畫了五倍的電力 。
we can't predict specifically what particles will be produced in any individual collision .	我們無法準確地預測粒子在任何一個碰撞中會產生什麼樣子 。
quantum mechanics tells us all possibilities are realized .	量子力學告訴我們所有可能性都知道 。
but physics does tell us what particles can be produced .	但物理會告訴我們 , 粒子會產生什麼樣的 。
these particles must have just as much mass and energy as is carried in by the proton and antiproton .	這些粒子必須要有大量的質量和能量 , 被質子和抗素帶進來 。
any particles more massive than this energy limit aren't produced , and remain invisible to us .	任何粒子比這種能量限制更大 , 都不會產生 , 且對我們來說仍然是隱形的 。
this is why this new particle accelerator is so exciting .	這就是為什麼這個新的粒子加速器非常令人興奮 。
it's going to push this energy limit seven times beyond what's ever been done before , so we're going to get to see some new particles very soon .	它會將能量極限於之前所做過的7次數 , 所以我們就得很快地看到一些新的粒子 。
but before talking about what we might see , let me describe the particles we already know of .	但在談我們可能看到的之前 , 讓我描述我們已經知道的粒子 。
there's a whole zoo of subatomic particles .	這裡有一系列的解剖粒子 。
most of us are familiar with electrons .	我們大多數人都熟悉電子 。
a lot of people in this room make a good living pushing them around .	在這間房間裡有許多人會幫他們推動 。
but the electron also has a neutral partner called the neutrino , with no electric charge and a very tiny mass .	但電子也有中立的夥伴 , 叫做 「 中子 」 , 沒有電荷和一個非常小的質量 。
in contrast , the upanddown quarks have very large masses , and combine in threes to make the protons and neutrons inside atoms .	相反地 , 上層的平方有非常大的質量 , 將三分之一的質子和中子結合在一起 , 讓原子內部的質子和中子 。
all of these matter particles come in left and righthanded varieties , and have antiparticle partners that carry opposite charges .	所有這些物質粒子都出現在左邊和右撇子的種類中 , 也有反對的夥伴 , 帶有相反的載荷 。
these familiar particles also have less familiar second and third generations , which have the same charges as the first but have much higher masses .	這些熟悉的粒子也比較不熟悉 , 第三代 , 和第一代的載荷相同 , 但有較高的質量 。
these matter particles all interact with the various force particles .	這些物質粒子和不同的粒子互動 。
the electromagnetic force interacts with electrically charged matter via particles called photons .	電磁力的作用和電電動電極互動 , 稱為 「 光子粒子 」 。
there is also a very weak force called , rather unimaginatively , the weak force , that interacts only with lefthanded matter .	還有一個非常弱的力量 , 叫做 「 不可想像力 」 , 弱力 , 只與左撇子的物質互動 。
the strong force acts between quarks which carry a different kind of charge , called color charge , and come in three different varieties: red , green and blue .	堅強的力量在一個不同的載荷之間 , 叫做顏色查理 , 來到三種不同的種類:紅色、綠色和藍色 。
you can blame murray gellmann for these names they're his fault .	你可以稱之為murraygellmann , 為這些名字是他的錯 。
finally , there's the force of gravity , which interacts with matter via its mass and spin .	最後 , 有著重力的力量 , 和其質量和旋轉的物質互動 。
the most important thing to understand here is that there's a different kind of charge associated with each of these forces .	最重要的是要了解的是 , 各式各式各樣的載荷和所有這些力量有關 。
these four different forces interact with matter according to the corresponding charges that each particle has .	這四種不同的力量與物質相互作用 , 根據每一粒粒子都有的反應 。
a particle that hasn't been seen yet , but we're pretty sure exists , is the higgs particle , which gives masses to all these other particles .	目前尚未見過的粒子 , 但是我們確信希格斯粒子 , 是其他粒子的質量 。
the main purpose of the large hadron collider is to see this higgs particle , and we're almost certain it will .	大型強子碰撞的主要目的是看到這個希格斯粒子 , 我們幾乎確定它會 。
but the greatest mystery is what else we might see .	但最棒的謎團是我們所看到的 。
and i'm going to show you one beautiful possibility towards the end of this talk .	接下來我要向各位展示一個美麗的可能性 。
now , if we count up all these different particles using their various spins and charges , there are 226 .	現在 , 如果我們用各種不同的粒子數來計算這些不同的粒子 , 就會有226個 。
that's a lot of particles to keep track of .	這是很多粒子持續追蹤 。
and it seems strange that nature would have so many elementary particles .	這似乎很奇怪 , 大自然有這麼多元的粒子 。
but if we plot them out according to their charges , some beautiful patterns emerge .	但如果我們把它們放到他們的載荷上 , 有些美麗的圖案出現 。
the most familiar charge is electric charge .	最熟悉的載荷是電荷 。
electrons have an electric charge , a negative one , and quarks have electric charges in thirds .	電子有電荷 , 一個負面的電荷 , 夸克有三分之一的電荷 。
so when two up quarks and a down quark are combined to make a proton , it has a total electric charge of plus one .	所以 , 當兩個平方和下方方方時 , 會產生一個質子 , 它的電量加上一個 。
these particles also have antiparticles , which have opposite charges .	這些粒子也有反粒子 , 它有相反的載荷 。
now , it turns out the electric charge is actually a combination of two other charges: hypercharge and weak charge .	結果發現 , 電荷其實是另外兩個載荷的結合:超音能和弱點 。
if we spread out the hypercharge and weak charge and plot the charges of particles in this twodimensional charge space , the electric charge is where these particles sit along the vertical direction .	如果我們把超級手段和弱的載荷把粒子在這個兩維空間中 , 電荷荷就是這些粒子和垂直方向的位置 。
the electromagnetic and weak forces interact with matter according to their hypercharge and weak charge , which make this pattern .	電磁力和弱力會與物質互動 , 相互作用 , 根據它們的掌控和弱點 , 讓這個模式產生 。
this is called the unified electroweak model , and it was put together back in 1967 .	這叫做 「 聯合國電擊模型 」 , 它在1967年被放回來 。
the reason most of us are only familiar with electric charge and not both of these is because of the higgs particle .	我們大多數人只熟悉電荷 , 不是因為希格斯粒子 。
the higgs , over here on the left , has a large mass and breaks the symmetry of this electroweak pattern .	左邊的希格斯 , 有一個大量的質量 , 打破這個電擊模式的對稱性 。
it makes the weak force very weak by giving the weak particles a large mass .	它會讓弱力非常弱 , 藉由給予極大的粒子 。
since this massive higgs sits along the horizontal direction in this diagram , the photons of electromagnetism remain massless and interact with electric charge along the vertical direction in this charge space .	由於這個巨大的希格斯坐著這張地平線 , 電磁晶體的光子 , 永續的質量 , 和電荷和電荷相互作用 。
so the electromagnetic and weak forces are described by this pattern of particle charges in twodimensional space .	所以電磁力和弱力被這兩度空間的粒子載荷描述出來 。
we can include the strong force by spreading out its two charge directions and plotting the charges of the force particles in quarks along these directions .	我們能把強力推出它的兩個載荷方向 , 把力量粒子和這些方向的位置推出 。
the charges of all known particles can be plotted in a fourdimensional charge space , and projected down to two dimensions like this so we can see them .	所有已知的粒子都可以在四維的載荷空間中拍攝 , 把它們放到兩個維度 , 這樣我們就能看見它們 。
whenever particles interact , nature keeps things in a perfect balance along all four of these charge directions .	每當粒子互動時 , 大自然會以完美的平衡為平衡 , 整合四個載荷方向 。
if a particle and an antiparticle collide , it creates a burst of energy and a total charge of zero in all four charge directions .	如果粒子和一個反粒子碰撞 , 它會產生能量 , 和每四個載荷的載荷 。
at this point , anything can be created as long as it has the same energy and maintains a total charge of zero .	此時 , 任何東西都能產生同一個能量和維持一個零的載荷 。
for example , this weak force particle and its antiparticle can be created in a collision .	例如 , 這種弱力粒子和它的反粒子可以在碰撞中創造出來 。
in further interactions , the charges must always balance .	在更進一步的互動中 , 載荷一定總是平衡 。
one of the weak particles could decay into an electron and an antineutrino , and these three still add to zero total charge .	其中一個弱粒子可以將電子和中子延伸到一個中子 , 這三種仍然加上0的載荷 。
nature always keeps a perfect balance .	大自然總是保持完美平衡 。
so these patterns of charges are not just pretty .	所以這些載荷的模式不僅僅是相當的 。
they tell us what interactions are allowed to happen .	他們告訴我們 , 有什麼互動會發生 。
and we can rotate this charge space in four dimensions to get a better look at the strong interaction , which has this nice hexagonal symmetry .	我們可以把這四維空間旋轉 , 讓一個更好的看待強大的互動 , 有一個好對稱的對稱性 。
in a strong interaction , a strong force particle , such as this one , interacts with a colored quark , such as this green one , to give a quark with a different color charge this red one .	在一個強烈的互動中 , 一個強強的力量粒子 , 例如 , 與顏色的平面互動 , 例如這個綠色的綠色 , 用不同的顏色來配合這個紅色的標準 。
and strong interactions are happening millions of times each second in every atom of our bodies , holding the atomic nuclei together .	強大的互動每秒都發生了數百萬次 , 在我們的身體的每一個原子 , 把原子核組合在一起 。
but these four charges corresponding to three forces are not the end of the story .	但這四個載荷與三種力量相對 , 不是故事結束的終點 。
we can also include two more charges corresponding to the gravitational force .	我們也能包含兩種慈善機構對重力的反應 。
when we include these , each matter particle has two different spin charges , spinup and spindown .	當我們包含這些 , 每一粒粒子都有兩種不同的旋律 , 旋轉和旋轉 。
so they all split , and give a nice pattern in sixdimensional charge space .	所以他們都分開 , 在六維的載荷空間中提供一個很好的模式 。
we can rotate this pattern in six dimensions , and see that it's quite pretty .	我們可以在六維空間中旋轉這個模式 , 看看它很漂亮 。
right now , this pattern matches our best current knowledge of how nature is built at the tiny scales of these elementary particles .	目前 , 這種模式可以配合我們目前最好的知識 , 大自然是如何在這些元素粒子中建造出來的 。
this is what we know for certain .	這是我們知道的 。
some of these particles are at the very limit of what we've been able to reach with experiments .	有些粒子在我們能和實驗的極限上 。
from this pattern , we already know the particle physics of these tiny scales . the way the universe works with these tiny scales is very beautiful .	從這個模式 , 我們已經知道這些微小的尺度的粒子物理 。 宇宙的運作方式是非常美麗的 。
but now i'm going to discuss some new and old ideas about things we don't know yet .	但我現在要討論一些新的和古老的想法 , 關於我們尚未知的事物 。
we want to expand this pattern using mathematics alone , and see if we can get our hands on the whole enchilada .	我們想要用數學來擴展這個模式 , 看看我們是否能在整個基礎上取得我們的手 。
we want to find all the particles and forces that make a complete picture of our universe .	我們想要找到所有粒子和力量 , 讓宇宙完全相似 。
and we want to use this picture to predict new particles that we'll see when experiments reach higher energies .	我們想用這張照片來預測我們會看到的新粒子 , 何時會達到更高的能量 。
so there's an old idea in particle physics that this known pattern of charges , which is not very symmetric , could emerge from a more perfect pattern that gets broken similar to how the higgs particle breaks the electroweak pattern to give electromagnetism .	所以 , 在粒子物理上有一個古老的概念 , 這種所謂的載荷模式 , 不是非常對稱的 , 可以從一個更完美的模式來突破希格斯粒子如何突破電子圖案 , 來給電磁晶體 。
in order to do this , we need to introduce new forces with new charge directions .	為了要做到這一點 , 我們需要介紹新的載荷方向的新力量 。
when we introduce a new direction , we get to guess what charges the particles have along this direction , and then we can rotate it in with the others .	當我們介紹一個新方向時 , 我們就會猜測粒子在這個方向有何作用 , 然後我們就可以把它和其他人一起旋轉 。
if we guess wisely , we can construct the standard charges in six charge dimensions as a broken symmetry of this more perfect pattern in seven charge dimensions .	如果我們很明顯地猜想 , 我們就能在六度載荷的標準載荷中建構成這種完美模式的對稱性 。
this particular choice corresponds to a grand unified theory introduced by pati and salam in 1973 .	在1973年 , 這種特定的選擇對應了孫子的理論引進了pati和alam的理論 。
when we look at this new unified pattern , we can see a couple of gaps where particles seem to be missing .	當我們看這個新的單位模式時 , 我們可以看到幾種不同的差異 , 粒子似乎是錯的 。
this is the way theories of unification work .	這是單位化的理論 。
a physicist looks for larger , more symmetric patterns that include the established pattern as a subset .	物理學家尋求更大、更對稱的模式 , 包含了組織的模式 。
the larger pattern allows us to predict the existence of particles that have never been seen .	更大的模式讓我們能預測從未見過的粒子存在 。
this unification model predicts the existence of these two new force particles , which should act a lot like the weak force , only weaker .	這種獨立的模型預測了這兩種新的力量粒子的存在 , 這應該是像弱力一樣的 , 只有弱勢者 。
now we can rotate this set of charges in seven dimensions and consider an odd fact about the matter particles: the second and third generations of matter have exactly the same charges in sixdimensional charge space as the first generation .	我們現在可以在七度空間中旋轉這一組載荷 , 來考慮關於物質粒子的真相:第二代和第三代物質在六維載荷的空間中有相同的載荷 。
these particles are not uniquely identified by their six charges .	這些粒子並不獨特地辨識出他們的六個載荷 。
they sit on top of one another in the standard charge space .	他們坐在一個標準載荷空間上 。
however , if we work in eightdimensional charge space , then we can assign unique new charges to each particle .	然而 , 如果我們在八度載荷空間工作 , 那麼我們就能把獨特的新載荷放在每個粒子上 。
then we can spin these in eight dimensions , and see what the whole pattern looks like .	然後我們可以在八度內旋轉 , 看看整個模式看起來是什麼樣子 。
here we can see the second and third generations of matter now related to the first generation by a symmetry called " triality . "	這裡 , 我們可以看到第二代和第三代物質的世代 , 由一個稱之為 「 三性 」 的對稱 。
this particular pattern of charges in eight dimensions is actually part of the most beautiful geometric structure in mathematics .	8維度的這個特定模式其實是數學中最美麗的幾何結構之一 。
it's a pattern of the largest exceptional lie group , e8 .	這是最多例外的謊言團體的模式 ,  e8 。
this lie group is a smooth , curved shape with 248 dimensions .	這種謊言團體是平滑的 , 用248度形狀的形狀 。
each point in this pattern corresponds to a symmetry of this very complex and beautiful shape .	在這個模式的每個角度對這個複雜和美麗的形狀的對稱 。
one small part of this e8 shape can be used to describe the curved spacetime of einstein's general relativity , explaining gravity .	這個e8形狀的一小部分可以用來描述愛因斯坦的曲線 , 相對論 , 解釋重力 。
together with quantum mechanics , the geometry of this shape could describe everything about how the universe works at the tiniest scales .	由量子力學組成 , 這種形狀的幾何數 , 可以描述宇宙在最小的規模中如何運作 。
the pattern of this shape living in eightdimensional charge space is exquisitely beautiful , and it summarizes thousands of possible interactions between these elementary particles , each of which is just a facet of this complicated shape .	這種形狀在八維空間中活著的形狀是非常漂亮的 , 它會讓數千個可能的粒子之間的互動 , 每一面都是這種複雜的形狀 。
as we spin it , we can see many of the other intricate patterns contained in this one .	隨著我們旋轉 , 我們可以看到許多其他複雜的模式在這個領域中 。
and with a particular rotation , we can look down through this pattern in eight dimensions along a symmetry axis and see all the particles at once .	藉由特定的旋轉 , 我們可以透過這八度的對稱軸 , 看所有粒子 。
it's a very beautiful object , and as with any unification , we can see some holes where new particles are required by this pattern .	這是個非常美麗的物體 , 就像任何單位一樣 , 我們可以看到一些新的粒子被這個模式所需要的洞 。
there are 20 gaps where new particles should be , two of which have been filled by the patisalam particles .	這裡有20個差距 , 新的粒子應該是 , 其中有兩種是由patalam粒子所填補的 。
from their location in this pattern , we know that these new particles should be scalar fields like the higgs particle , but have color charge and interact with the strong force .	從它們的位置 , 我們知道這些新的粒子應該是像希格斯粒子一樣的規模 , 但有顏色查理和強力的互動 。
filling in these new particles completes this pattern , giving us the full e8 .	把這些新粒子填滿了這個模式 , 給予我們完整的e8 。
this e8 pattern has very deep mathematical roots .	這個e8模式非常深刻的數學根源 。
it's considered by many to be the most beautiful structure in mathematics .	它被許多人認為是數學中最美麗的結構 。
it's a fantastic prospect that this object of great mathematical beauty could describe the truth of particle interactions at the smallest scales imaginable .	這是個很棒的觀點 , 這種偉大的數學美麗 , 可以描述粒子互動的真相 , 以最小的想像力來描述粒子互動的真相 。
and this idea that nature is described by mathematics is not at all new .	這個想法 , 大自然被數學所描述的不是全新的 。
in 1623 , galileo wrote this: " nature's grand book , which stands continually open to our gaze , is written in the language of mathematics .	在1623年 , 伽利略寫了這句話: 「 大自然的偉大書 , 不斷地打開我們的聚會 , 寫在數學語言中 。
its characters are triangles , circles and other geometrical figures , without which it is humanly impossible to understand a single word of it ; without these , one is wandering around in a dark labyrinth . "	它的角色是三角形、圓圈和其他幾何的數字 , 沒有人可以理解單一詞 ; 沒有這些 , 一個人在黑暗的實驗室中圍繞著 。 」
i believe this to be true , and i've tried to follow galileo's guidance in describing the mathematics of particle physics using only triangles , circles and other geometrical figures .	我相信這是真的 , 我試著遵循伽利略的指導來描述粒子物理學的數學 , 只用三角形 , 圓形和其他幾何數字 。
of course , when other physicists and i actually work on this stuff , the mathematics can resemble a dark labyrinth .	當然 , 當其他物理學家和我真的在研究這些東西時 , 數學可以組合黑暗的實驗室 。
but it's reassuring that at the heart of this mathematics is pure , beautiful geometry .	但在這個數學的核心是純粹的 , 美麗的幾何 。
joined with quantum mechanics , this mathematics describes our universe as a growing e8 coral , with particles interacting at every location in all possible ways according to a beautiful pattern .	加入量子力學 , 這個數學描述了我們的宇宙 , 作為一個成長的珊瑚 , 粒子在所有可能的地點上互動 。
and as more of the pattern comes into view using new machines like the large hadron collider , we may be able to see whether nature uses this e8 pattern or a different one .	隨著越來越多的圖案出現在使用新機器 , 像是大型的強子撞撞機 , 我們可能能看到大自然是否用這種模式或不同的形式 。
this process of discovery is a wonderful adventure to be involved in .	這種發現的過程是很棒的冒險 。
if the lhc finds particles that fit this e8 pattern , that will be very , very cool .	如果lhc發現了這8個圖案的粒子 , 那就很酷 。
if the lhc finds new particles , but they don't fit this pattern well , that will be very interesting , but bad for this e8 theory .	如果lhc發現了新的粒子 , 但它們不符合這個模式 , 那會很有趣 , 但對e8理論來說很糟 。
and , of course , bad for me personally .	當然 , 對我來說 , 對我來說很糟 。
now how bad would that be ?	那有多糟糕 ?
well , pretty bad .	嗯 , 很糟糕 。
but predicting how nature works is a very risky game .	但預測大自然如何運作是非常危險的遊戲 。
this theory and others like it are long shots .	這種理論和其他的理論很長 。
one does a lot of hard work knowing that most of these ideas probably won't end up being true about nature .	其中有許多困難的工作 , 知道大部分這些點子可能不會發生在大自然中 。
that's what doing theoretical physics is like: there are a lot of wipeouts .	這正是理論物理的樣子:有大量的維度 。
in this regard , new physics theories are a lot like startup companies .	在這方面 , 新的物理理論很像新創公司 。
as with any large investment , it can be emotionally difficult to abandon a line of research when it isn't working out .	儘管有任何大型投資 , 可能是情緒上升的 , 當它沒有成功時 , 可能很難放棄一個研究 。
but in science , if something isn't working , you have to toss it out and try something else .	但在科學中 , 如果某樣東西沒用 , 你就得要把它弄出來 , 嘗試其他東西 。
now , the only way to maintain sanity and achieve happiness in the midst of this uncertainty is to keep balance and perspective in life .	現在 , 唯一能維持衛生和達成幸福的方式就是維持平衡和觀點 。
i've tried the best i can to live a balanced life .	我試過我能生活最好的平衡生活 。
i try to balance my life equally between physics , love and surfing my own three charge directions .	我試著平衡我的生命 , 同樣在物理、愛和衝浪我自己的三個載荷方向之間的平衡 。
this way , even if the physics i work on comes to nothing , i still know i've lived a good life .	這樣一來 , 即使我從事的物理學 , 我仍然知道我活在一個好生活中 。
and i try to live in beautiful places .	我試著生活在美麗的地方 。
for most of the past ten years i've lived on the island of maui , a very beautiful place .	過去十多年來 , 我住在馬多島 , 一個非常漂亮的地方 。
now it's one of the greatest mysteries in the universe to my parents how i managed to survive all that time without engaging in anything resembling fulltime employment .	現在是宇宙中最棒的謎團之一 , 讓我的父母如何在生存時間中 , 不用完全組成全職員 。
i'm going to let you in on that secret .	我要讓你們在那個秘密上 。
this was a view from my home office on maui .	這是我家的辦公室 。
and you may have noticed that these beautiful views are similar , but in slightly different places .	你可能注意到這些美麗的觀點是相似的 , 但在稍微不同的地方 。
that's because this used to be my home and office on maui .	那是因為這曾經是我的家和辦公室 。
i've chosen a very unusual life .	我選擇了一個非常不尋常的生活 。
but not worrying about rent allowed me to spend my time doing what i love .	但不擔心租金讓我花時間去做我所愛的事 。
living a nomadic existence has been hard at times , but it's allowed me to live in beautiful places and keep a balance in my life that i've been happy with .	活著的存在很艱難 , 但它讓我活在美麗的地方 , 保持平衡 , 在我的生活中 。
it allows me to spend a lot of my time hanging out with hyperintelligent coral .	讓我花了很多時間和超級智慧的珊瑚在一起 。
but i also greatly enjoy the company of hyperintelligent people .	但我也很享受超級智慧的人的公司 。
so i'm very happy to have been invited here to ted .	我很高興來到ted 。
chris anderson: i probably understood two percent of that , but i still absolutely loved it . so i'm going to sound dumb .	克里斯•安德森:我可能了解了百分之二 , 但我仍然很愛它 。 所以我要聽起來很笨 。
your theory of everything garrett lisi: i'm used to coral .	你的理論是:我習慣珊瑚礁 。
ca: that's right . the reason it's got a few people at least excited is because , if you're right , it brings gravity and quantum theory together .	克里斯:那是對的 , 最少人的原因是 , 如果你是對的 , 重力和量子理論聚在一起 。
so are you saying that we should think of the universe , at its heart that the smallest things that there are , are somehow an e8 object of possibility ?	所以你說 , 我們應該考慮宇宙 , 在它的心中 , 最小的事物 , 不知何謂 「 可能性 」 是嗎 ?
i mean , is there a scale to it , at the smallest scale , or . . . ?	我的意思是 , 在最小的規模中 , 是否有規模 , 還是嗎 ?
gl: well , right now the pattern i showed you that corresponds to what we know about elementary particle physics that already corresponds to a very beautiful shape .	格林:嗯 , 現在我向各位展示的圖案 , 對於我們所知的元素粒子物理學的了解 , 已經對一個非常美麗的形狀做出反應 。
and that's the one that i said we knew for certain .	這是我所說的 , 我們知道的 。
and that shape has remarkable similarities and the way it fits into this e8 pattern could be the rest of the picture .	這種形狀有著很驚人的相似性 , 並且它能符合這個e8的圖形 , 可能是其他的圖片 。
and these patterns of points that i've shown for you actually represent symmetries of this highdimensional object that would be warping and moving and dancing over the space time that we experience .	我為你們展示的這些觀點圖案 , 代表這個高度敏感的物體的對稱性 , 會在我們體驗的空間中移動和舞蹈 。
and that would be what explains all these elementary particles that we see .	這會是解釋我們所看到的所有元素粒子 。
ca: but a string theorist , as i understand it , explains electrons in terms of much smaller strings vibrating i know you don't like string theory vibrating inside it .	克里斯:但弦理論學家 , 如我所知 , 解釋電子 , 以較小的弦振動 , 我知道你不喜歡把理論震動在裡面 。
how should we think of an electron in relation to e8 ?	我們該如何把電子視為e8 ?
gl: no , it would be one of the symmetries of this e8 shape .	格林:不 , 它會是這個e8形狀的對稱性之一 。
so what's happening is , as the shape is moving over spacetime , it's twisting . and the direction it's twisting as it moves is what particle we see . so it would be ca: the size of the e8 shape , how does that relate to the electron ?	所以 , 隨著時間的形狀移動 , 它是扭曲的 。 而它的方向在移動時 , 它的方向是我們所看到的粒子 。 所以它會是克里斯:e8形狀的大小 , 電子是怎麼關係的 ?
i kind of feel like i need that for my picture .	我覺得我需要這張照片 。
is it bigger ? is it smaller ?	更大嗎 ? 更小嗎 ?
gl: well , as far as we know electrons are point particles , so this would be going down to the smallest possible scales .	格林:正如我們所知的電子是關鍵的粒子 , 所以這會在最小的規模下降到最小的規模 。
so the way these things are explained in quantum field theory is , all possibilities are expanding and developing at once .	所以 , 這些東西在量子場理論上解釋的方式是 , 所有可能性都在擴張和發展 。
and this is why i use the analogy to coral .	這就是為什麼我會用珊瑚類比喻 。
and in this way , the way that e8 comes in is it will be as a shape that's attached at each point in spacetime .	以這種方式來說 , e8的進步的方式是 , 它的形狀是每一時間在太空中加入的 。
and , as i said , the way the shape twists the directional along which way the shape is twisting as it moves over this curved surface is what the elementary particles are , themselves .	正如我所說的 , 形狀的扭曲方式 , 形狀的形狀是扭轉這個曲線的表面 , 就是原始粒子本身的樣子 。
so through quantum field theory , they manifest themselves as points and interact that way .	所以 , 透過量子領域理論 , 他們會把自己當作點 , 以這種方式互動 。
i don't know if i'll be able to make this any clearer .	我不知道我是否能讓它更清楚 。
ca: it doesn't really matter .	克里斯:真的不重要 。
it's evoking a kind of sense of wonder , and i certainly want to understand more of this .	它是一種奇蹟的感覺 , 我肯定想要了解更多這個 。
but thank you so much for coming . that was absolutely fascinating .	但 , 非常謝謝你來了 。 這絕對令人驚嘆 。
the legendary chimpanzee researcher jane goodall talks about tacare and her other community projects , which help people in booming african towns live sidebyside with threatened animals .	合法的黑猩猩研究者珍妮亞爾提到塔卡爾和她的其他社區計畫 , 幫助非洲的小鎮居住著威脅的動物 。
africa , animals , biodiversity , environment , global issues , pollution , primates , science	非洲、動物、生物多樣性、環境、全球性議題、污染、靈長類、科學、科學、動物、動物、動物、動物、動物、生物多樣性、環境、環境、全球性
jane goodall helps humans and animals live together	珍的善良幫助人類和動物一起生活在一起 , 珍妮•布爾 , 能協助人類和動物一起生活 。
good afternoon , good evening , whatever .	晚安 , 晚安 , 不管如何 。
we can go , jambo , guten abend , bonsoir , but we can also ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh .	我們可以去 , 詹姆斯 , 阿布蘭 , 鮑林 , 但我們也能ooh , ooh , oh , oh , oh , oh , oh , oh , oh , oh 。
that is the call that chimpanzees make before they go to sleep in the evening .	這就是黑猩猩在晚上睡前的電話 。
you hear it going from one side of the valley to the other , from one group of nests to the next .	你聽到它來自谷歌的一面 , 從一組巢穴到下一個 。
and i want to pick up with my talk this evening from where zeray left off yesterday .	我想要從昨天離開那天晚上拿起我的演講 。
he was talking about this amazing , threeyearold australopithecine child , selam .	他在談論這個驚人的 , 三歲的澳洲人兒童 , 塞拉姆 。
and we've also been hearing about the history , the family tree , of mankind through dna genetic profiling .	我們也聽到了歷史 , 家庭樹 , 透過dna基因獲利的人類 。
and it was a paleontologist , the late louis leakey , who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees .	那是一名古生物學家 , 最近的路易斯•利基 , 他讓我在研究黑猩猩的路上 。
and it was pretty extraordinary , way back then .	當時它很不可思議 , 回到那時 。
it's kind of commonplace now , but his argument was because he'd been searching for the fossilized remains of early humans in africa .	這有點常見 , 但他的論點是 , 因為他一直在尋找非洲早期人類的化石 。
and you can tell an awful lot about what those beings looked like from the fossils , from the shape of the muscle attachments , something about the way they lived from the various artifacts found with them .	你可以告訴大家 , 那些來自化石的樣子 , 來自肌肉的形狀 , 從肌肉的形狀 , 到他們從各種不同的人工發現的方式 。
but what about how they behaved ? that's what he wanted to know .	但他們是怎麼樣的 ? 這是他想知道的 。
and of course , behavior doesn't fossilize .	當然 , 行為不會化石化 。
he argued and it's now a fairly common theory that if we found behavior patterns similar or the same in our closest living relatives , the great apes , and humans today , then maybe those behaviors were present in the apelike , humanlike ancestor some seven million years ago .	他主張了 , 現在是一個很常見的理論 , 如果我們發現行為模式和我們近親親的親戚相似 , 人類 , 或許這些行為會出現在同一百七百萬年前 , 人類的祖先 。
and therefore , perhaps we had brought those characteristics with us from that ancient , ancient past .	因此 , 也許我們把這些特質帶給我們 , 從古老、古老的過去 。
well , if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution , you very often find people speculating about how early humans may have behaved , based on the behavior of chimpanzees .	嗯 , 如果你今天看教科書來處理人類進化 , 你通常會發現人們在測量早期人類的行為 , 可能是基於黑猩猩的行為 。
they are more like us than any other living creature , and we've heard about that during this ted conference .	他們比其他生物更像我們 , 我們在ted會議中聽過這個 。
so it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzees are so like us , in certain aspects of their behavior .	所以 , 它留給我說 , 黑猩猩和我們相似 , 在某些方面 , 牠們的行為的某些方面 。
every chimpanzee has his or her own personality .	每個黑猩猩都有他或自己的個人性 。
of course , i gave them names . they can live to be 60 years or more , although we think most of them probably don't make it to 60 in the wild .	當然 , 我給他們名字 , 他們可以活60年或更久 , 雖然我們認為大部分人可能不會在野生裡達到60歲 。
mr . wurzel . the female has her first baby when she's 11 or 12 .	沃爾茲 , 雌性在11或12歲時 , 她是第一個嬰兒 。
thereafter , she has one baby only every five or six years , a long period of childhood dependency when the child is nursing , sleeping with the mother at night , and riding on her back .	在那裡 , 她每五到六年 , 只有一個嬰兒 , 長期的兒童依賴 , 當孩子們在睡眠 , 晚上睡著 , 和她一起騎回來 。
and we believe that this long period of childhood is important for chimpanzees , just as it is for us , in relation to learning .	我們相信 , 這種長期的童年對黑猩猩來說很重要 , 就像是為了我們 , 學習的關係 。
as the brain becomes ever more complex during evolution in different forms of animals , so we find that learning plays an ever more important role in an individual's life history .	當大腦在不同類型的動物演化過程中變得更複雜 , 所以我們發現 , 學習在個人生命歷史中扮演著更重要的角色 。
and young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do .	年輕的黑猩猩花了很多時間觀察他們的老年人做些什麼 。
we know now that they're capable of imitating behaviors that they see .	我們現在知道 , 他們能夠模仿他們所看到的行為 。
and we believe that it's in this way that the different toolusing behaviors that have now been seen in all the different chimpanzee populations studied in africa how these are passed from one generation to the next , through observation , imitation and practice , so that we can describe these toolusing behaviors as primitive culture .	我們相信 , 這種方式是不同的工具行為 , 目前在非洲各式各樣的黑猩猩族群都被研究 , 如何從一個世代傳遞到下一代 , 通過觀察 , 模仿和練習 , 這樣我們就能描述這些細微的行為 , 成為原始文化 。
chimpanzees don't have a spoken language . we've talked about that .	黑猩猩沒有語言 , 我們談過這一點 。
they do have a very rich repertoire of postures and gestures , many of which are similar , or even identical , to ours and formed in the same context . greeting chimpanzees embracing .	他們的確有非常豐富的姿勢和姿勢 , 許多都是相似的 , 甚至相同的 , 在同一個情況下 , 希臘黑猩猩會擁抱 。
they also kiss , hold hands , pat one another on the back .	他們也吻了 , 握住手 , 另一隻手 。
and they swagger and they throw rocks .	牠們會游泳 , 丟出岩石 。
in chimpanzee society , we find many , many examples of compassion , precursors to love and true altruism .	在黑猩猩社會中 , 我們發現許多許多同情的例子 , 像是愛和真實的利他主義 。
unfortunately , they , like us , have a dark side to their nature .	不幸的是 , 他們跟我們一樣 , 有一面黑暗的面向 。
they're capable of extreme brutality , even a kind of primitive war .	他們有能力極端的殘酷性 , 甚至是一種原始的戰爭 。
and these really aggressive behaviors , for the most part , are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group .	這些真的很具侵略性的行為 , 最多部分是對鄰近社會團體的個體 。
they are very territorially aggressive .	它們是非常嚴格的侵略性 。
chimpanzees , i believe , more than any other living creature , have helped us to understand that , after all , there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom .	我相信 , 黑猩猩 , 我相信 , 比任何其他生物還能幫助我們了解 , 畢竟 , 人類和其他動物王國之間沒有鯊魚線 。
it's a very blurry line , and it's getting more blurry all the time as we make even more observations .	這是一條非常模糊的線 , 隨著我們做出更多觀察時 , 就會變得越來越模糊 。
the study that i began in 1960 is still continuing to this day .	我從1960年開始的研究仍然持續到今日 。
and these chimpanzees , living their complex social lives in the wild , have helped more than anything else to make us realize we are part of , and not separated from , the amazing animals with whom we share the planet .	而這些黑猩猩 , 活在野生的複雜社會生活中 , 比其他東西更有幫助讓我們了解我們是其中一部分 , 而不是我們共享地球的神奇動物 。
so it's pretty sad to find that chimpanzees , like so many other creatures around the world , are losing their habitats .	所以很難找到黑猩猩 , 就像世界上許多其他生物一樣 , 都失去了棲息地 。
this is just one photograph from the air , and it shows you the forested highlands of gombe .	這只是從空氣中拍攝的照片 , 它顯示了你在大西的森林高地 。
and it was when i flew over the whole area , about 16 years ago , and realized that outside the park , this forest , which in 1960 had stretched almost unbroken along the eastern shore of lake tanganyika , which is where the tiny , 30squaremile gombe national park lies , that a question came to my mind .	當時我飛過整個區域 , 大約16年前 , 我發現 , 在公園外面 , 森林在1960年代 , 幾乎沒有破壞 , 湖泊的海岸 , 也就是小型的三十平方公尺的公園 , 一個問題來到我腦海中 。
" how can we even try to save these famous chimpanzees , when the people living around the national park are struggling to survive ? "	「 我們要如何拯救這些有名的黑猩猩 , 當國家公園裡的人在掙扎存活下來時 ? 」
more people are living there than the land could possibly support .	更多人住在那裏 , 比陸地還能支持 。
the numbers increased by refugees pouring in from burundi and over the lake from congo .	難民的數量增加 , 來自緬甸 , 和剛果湖泊的湖泊 。
and very poor people they couldn't afford to buy food from elsewhere .	非常貧窮的人 , 他們無法從其他地方買食物 。
this led to a program , which we call tacare .	這導致了一項計畫 , 我們稱之為 「 計劃 」 。
it's a very holistic way of improving the lives of the people living in the villages around the park .	這是一種非常嚴格的改善人們生活在村莊裡的生活方式 。
it started small with 12 villages . it's now in 24 .	它從12個村落開始 , 現在已經在24年了 。
there isn't time to go into it , but it's including things like tree nurseries , methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded , almost desertlike land up in these mountains .	沒有時候要走進去 , 但它包含了像樹管的樣子 , 農場最適合的農場 , 幾乎是沙漠在這些山脈上降落 。
ways of controlling , preventing soil erosion .	控制方式 , 防止土壤排放 。
ways of reclaiming overused farmland , so that within two years they can again be productive .	再次重建農地的方法 , 所以在兩年內 , 他們能再次成為生產力 。
working to help the villagers obtain fresh water from wells .	努力協助村民從好處取得淡水 。
perhaps build some schoolrooms .	也許建造一些學校 。
most important of all , i believe , is working with small groups of women , providing them with opportunities for microcredit loans .	最重要的是 , 我相信 , 與少數女性合作 , 提供他們對微型credit貸款的機會 。
and we've got , as is the case around the world , about 95 percent of all loans returned .	我們得到了 , 如同全世界的情況 , 大約百分之九十五的貸款回來 。
empowering women , working with education , providing scholarships for girls so they can finish secondary school , in the clear understanding that , all around the world , as women's education improves , family size drops .	賦予女性 , 和教育合作 , 為女孩提供獎學金 , 讓他們能夠完成第二級學校 , 清楚地了解到全世界各地 , 女性的教育改善 , 家庭大小 。
we provide information about family planning and about hiv/aids .	我們提供關於家庭規劃和愛滋病的資訊 。
and as a result of this program , something's happening for conservation .	由於這個計畫的結果 , 有些事情正在發生 。
what's happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages , instead of looking on us as a bunch of white people coming to study a whole bunch of monkeys and by the way , many of the staff are now tanzanian but when we began the tacare program , it was a tanzanian team going into the villages .	保育的情況是 , 農夫生活在24個村莊裡 , 而不是把我們當作一群白人來研究一堆猴子 , 還有 , 很多人現在是坦尚尼亞 , 但當我們開始計劃時 , 它是坦尚尼亞的團隊 。
it was a tanzanian team talking to the villagers , asking what they were interested in .	這是一個坦尚尼亞的團隊和村民談話 , 問他們對他們的興趣是什麼 。
were they interested in conservation ? absolutely not .	他們對保育有興趣嗎 ? 絕對不是 。
they were interested in health ; they were interested in education .	他們對健康有興趣 , 他們對教育有興趣 。
and as time went on , and as their situation began to improve , they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation .	隨著時間進步 , 隨著他們的情況開始改善 , 他們開始更了解保育需要的需求 。
they began to understand that as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees , so you've got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides .	他們開始了解 , 身為山丘的上層層面 , 所以你有很糟糕的土壤排放和泥土 。
today , we are developing what we call the greater gombe ecosystem .	現今 , 我們正在開發出我們所謂的 「 更偉大的高爾蒙生態系統 」 。
this is an area way outside the national park , stretching out into all these very degraded lands .	這是國家公園外的一個地方 , 伸出這些非常乾燥的土地 。
and as these villages have a better standard of life , they are actually agreeing to put between 10 percent and 20 percent of their land in the highlands aside , so that once again , as the trees grow back , the chimpanzees will have leafy corridors through which they can travel to interact as they must for genetic viability with other remnant groups outside the national park .	隨著這些村莊有更好的生命標準 , 他們其實同意將百分之十到二十的土地的土地 , 再一次 , 當樹木長回來時 , 黑猩猩會透過他們能與其他國家公園的基因互動 。
so tacare is a success .	所以tacare是成功的 。
we're replicating it in other parts of africa , around other wilderness areas which are faced with extreme population pressure .	我們在非洲其他地方複製它 , 在其他地方 , 和其他荒野區域面臨極端的人口壓力 。
the problems in africa , however , as we've been discussing for the whole of these first couple of days of ted , are major problems .	然而 , 非洲的問題 , 隨著我們在討論ted的前幾天 , ted是主要的問題 。
there is a great deal of poverty .	有很多貧窮 。
and when you get large numbers of people living in land that is not that fertile , particularly when you cut down trees , and you leave the soil open to the wind for erosion , as desperate populations cut down more and more trees , so that they can try and grow food for themselves and their families , what's going to happen ? something's got to give .	當你有大量的人住在土地裡 , 尤其是你砍伐樹 , 離開土壤 , 把土壤砍掉 , 把更多的樹木砍掉 , 所以他們可以為自己種植食物 , 什麼會發生 ?
and the other problems in not only africa , but the rest of the developing world and , indeed , everywhere what are we doing to our planet ?	另外一個問題不只是非洲 , 而是其他發展中國家的其他問題 , 確實 , 我們在地球上所做的事 ?
you know , the famous scientist , e . o . wilson said that if every person on this planet attains the standard of living of the average european or american , we need three new planets .	你知道 , 一位有名的科學家 , e.o.o.wilson說如果地球上的每個人都活在歐洲或美國 , 我們需要三個新的行星 。
today , they are saying four . but we don't have them . we've got one .	今天 , 他們說了四個 , 但我們沒有他們 。 我們有一個 。
and what's happened ? i mean , the question here is , here we are , arguably the most intelligent being that's ever walked planet earth , with this extraordinary brain , capable of the kind of technology that is so well illustrated by these ted conferences , and yet we're destroying the only home we have .	發生了什麼事 ? 我的意思是 , 這裡的問題是 , 我們最有智慧的 , 是地球上最有智慧的人類 , 這種非凡的大腦 , 能夠被ted會議所描繪出的技術 , 但我們卻摧毀了我們唯一的家 。
the indigenous people around the world , before they made a major decision , used to sit around and ask themselves , " how does this decision affect our people seven generations ahead ? "	世界各地的原住民 , 在他們做了一個重大決定之前 , 以前 , 常常會問自己: 「 這決定如何影響我們的七代人 ? 」
today , major decisions and i'm not particularly talking about africa here , but the developed world major decisions involving millions of dollars , and millions of people , are often based on , " how will this affect the next shareholders' meeting ? "	今天 , 主要的決策 , 我不特別在談論非洲 , 但開發中國家的主要決策是數百萬美金 , 而數百萬人通常是基於 「 這會如何影響下一個共享者的會議 ? 」
and these decisions affect africa .	這些決策會影響非洲 。
as i began traveling around africa talking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests , i realized more and more how so many of africa's problems could be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation .	當我開始在非洲各地探討黑猩猩和他們消失的森林時 , 我了解到 , 越來越多非洲的問題 , 可能在以前的殖民部門 。
so i began traveling outside africa , talking in europe , talking in the united states , going to asia .	所以 , 我開始在非洲旅行 , 在歐洲談話 , 在美國 , 去亞洲 。
and everywhere there were these terrible problems .	每個地方都有這些可怕的問題 。
and you know the kind i'm talking about . i'm talking about pollution .	各位知道我在說的這種事 , 我談的是污染 。
the air that we breathe that often poisons us .	我們呼吸的空氣通常會引起我們 。
the earth is poisoning our foods .	地球是毒害我們的食物 。
the water water is perhaps one of the most crucial issues that we're going to face in this century and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural , industrial and household chemicals that still are being sprayed around the world , seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience .	水可能是我們在這個世紀所面對的最關鍵問題之一 , 到處都是農業、工業和家庭化學物質 , 仍然被全世界散播出來 , 似乎是無法從過去經驗中獲利的 。
the mangroves are being cut down ; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse .	紅外線被切割 ; 像海嘯的影響會更糟 。
we've talked about the soil erosion .	我們談過土壤排放 。
we have the reckless burning of fossil fuels along with other greenhouse gasses , so called , leading to climate change .	我們有不可思議的化石燃料和其他溫室氣體 , 叫做 , 導致氣候變遷 。
finally , all around the world , people have begun to believe that there is something going on very wrong with our climate .	最後 , 世界各地 , 人們開始相信 , 我們的氣候發生了很大的錯誤 。
all around the world climates are mixed up .	世界各地的氣候都混合起來 。
and it's the poor people who are affected worse .	最貧窮的人會更糟糕 。
it's africa that already is affected .	非洲已經受到影響 。
in many parts of subsaharan africa , the droughts are so much worse .	在撒哈拉以南非洲的許多地區 , 乾旱非常糟糕 。
and when the rain does come , it so often leads to flooding and added distress , and the cycle of poverty and hunger and disease .	當雨林來臨時 , 通常會導致洪水、加熱 , 以及貧窮、飢餓和疾病的循環 。
and the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support , who are too poor to buy food , who can't move away because the whole land is degraded .	而住在一個地方的人數無法支援 , 他們太貧窮了 , 因為整個土地已經退化了 。
and so you get desertification creeping , creeping , creeping as the last of the trees are cut down .	所以 , 你會得到沙漠化 , 哭泣 , 直到最後一棵樹被砍掉 。
and this kind of thing is not just in africa . it's all over the world .	這種事情不僅在非洲 , 都在全世界 。
so it wasn't surprising to me that as i was traveling around the world i met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope .	所以這並不讓我驚訝的是 , 當我在世界各地旅行時 , 我遇到許多年輕人似乎失去了希望 。
we seem to have lost wisdom , the wisdom of the indigenous people .	我們似乎失去了智慧 , 原住民的智慧 。
i asked a question . " why ? "	我問了一個問題: 「 為什麼 ? 」
well , do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain , the kind of brain that the ted technologies exemplify , and the human heart ? talking about it in the nonscientific term , in terms of love and compassion . is there some disconnect ?	嗯 , 你認為 , 可能有某種不可思議的大腦 , 這種關於ted科技的大腦 , 和人類的心臟擴大 , 談論它 , 在非科學方面 , 在愛和同情上 , 是否有某種不同嗎 ?
and these young people , when i talk to them , basically they were either depressed or apathetic , or bitter and angry . and they said more or less the same thing , " we feel this way because we feel you've compromised our future and there's nothing we can do about it . "	而這些年輕人 , 當我跟他們說話時 , 基本上他們是憂鬱或痛苦 , 或憤怒 。 他們說了更多或少的同一件事 , 因為我們覺得你對未來的貢獻 , 沒有任何我們能做的事 。 」
we have compromised their future .	我們已經承諾了他們的未來 。
i've got three little grandchildren , and every time i look at them and i think how we've harmed this beautiful planet since i was their age , i feel this desperation .	我有三個小孫子 , 每次我看著他們 , 我想我們如何傷害這個美麗的星球 , 我覺得這個絕望 。
and that led to this program we call roots and shoots , which began right here in tanzania and has now spread to 97 countries around the world .	結果導致了這個計畫 , 我們稱之為根和射擊 , 開始在坦尚尼亞 , 現在已經擴散到全世界的97個國家 。
it's symbolic . roots make a firm foundation .	它是象徵性的 。 根源製造了一間公司基金會 。
shoots seem tiny ; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall .	射擊似乎很小 , 到達太陽 , 可以穿過一面磚牆 。
see the brick wall as all these problems we've inflicted on the planet , environmental and social . it's a message of hope .	把磚牆看成我們在地球上所帶來的所有問題 , 環境和社交 。 這是希望的訊息 。
hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things .	全世界有數以千計的年輕人可以打破 , 讓這世界變得更好 。
the most important message of roots and shoots: every single one of us makes a difference , every single day .	最重要的訊息是根和槍擊:我們每一個人都造成了差異 , 每一天 。
we have a choice . every one of us in this room , we have a choice as to what kind of difference we want to make .	我們有選擇 。 在這間房間裡的每一個人 , 我們都有選擇 , 我們想要做些什麼樣的差異 。
the very poor have no choice . it's up to us to change things so that the poor have choice as well .	窮人沒有選擇 , 我們就要改變事情 , 讓窮人有選擇 。
the roots and shoots groups all choose three projects .	根和槍擊團體都選擇了三項計畫 。
it depends on how old they are , and which country , whether they're in a city or rural , as to what kinds of projects .	它依賴了多少年紀 , 哪個國家 , 不論是城市或鄉村 , 為何種項目 。
but basically , we have programs now from preschool right through university , with more and more adults starting their own roots and shoots groups .	但基本上 , 我們已經從學院學院開始了 , 有更多成年人開始自己的根和槍擊團體 。
and every group chooses , between them , three different kinds of project to make this a better world , recognizing that all these different problems are interconnected and impinge on each other .	每個團體選擇 , 三個不同的項目 , 讓這個世界變得更好 , 意識到 , 所有這些不同的問題都互相連結 , 連接彼此 。
so one of their projects will be to help their own human community .	所以 , 其中一個計畫將會協助自己的人類社群 。
and then , if they're able , they may raise money to help communities in other parts of the world .	然後 , 如果他們能做到 , 他們可能會在世界上其他地方提高錢 , 來協助社區 。
one of their projects will be to help animals not just wildlife , domestic animals as well .	其中一個計畫 , 協助動物不僅僅是野生動物 , 家庭動物也是 。
and one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share .	其中一個計畫將會幫助我們共享的環境 。
and woven throughout all of this is a message of learning to live in peace and harmony within ourselves , in our families , in our communities , between nations , between cultures , between religions and between us and the natural world .	所有這一切 , 是學習生活在和平和諧之中 , 在我們的家庭中 , 在我們的社區之間 , 在文化之間 , 文化和我們之間的宗教和自然世界之間 。
we need the natural world . we cannot go on destroying it at the rate we are .	我們需要自然的世界 , 我們不能在我們所處的速度下摧毀它 。
we not do have more than this one planet .	我們沒有超過這個星球 。
just picking one or two of the projects right here in africa that the roots and shoots groups are doing , one or two projects only in tanzania , in uganda , kenya , south africa , congobrazzaville , sierra leone , cameroon and other groups . and as i say , it's in 97 countries around the world .	在非洲 , 選一或兩項專案計畫 , 非洲的根和槍擊團體都在做 , 一、兩項專案 , 在烏干達 , 南非 , 南非 , 剛果的黎巴嫩 , 相機和其他組織 。 我說 , 在全世界97個國家 。
of course , they're planting trees . they're growing organic vegetables .	當然 , 它們正在種植樹 , 它們在種植有機蔬菜 。
they're working in the refugee camps , with chickens and selling the eggs for a little amount of money , or just using them to feed their families , and feeling a sense of pride and empowerment , because they're no longer helpless and depending on others with their vegetables and their chickens .	他們在難民營工作 , 有雞 , 賣蛋 , 或用小錢來餵養他們的家人 , 感受到自己是無助的 , 因為他們不再有幫助 , 依賴其他蔬菜和雞 。
it's being used in uganda to give some psychological help to exchild soldiers .	它被用在烏干達 , 給予一些心理上的幫助 , 來證明士兵 。
doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves .	做像這樣的計畫 , 就是把他們從自己中取出來 。
once again , they're useful members of society .	再一次 , 他們是社會上有用的成員 。
we have this program in prisons as well .	我們在監獄裡也有這個計畫 。
so , there's no time for more roots and shoots now .	所以 , 現在沒有更多的根和射擊時間 。
but oh , they're also working on hiv/aids .	但 , 喔 , 他們也在研究愛滋病 ,
that's a very important component of roots and shoots , with older kids talking to younger ones .	這是個非常重要的根源和槍擊 , 長大的孩子和年輕的孩子談話 。
and unwanted pregnancies and things like that , which young people listen to better from other youth , rather than adults .	沒有預防的懷孕和類似的事情 , 年輕人會傾聽其他年輕人 , 而不是成人 。
hope . that's the question i get asked as i'm going around the world: " jane , you've seen so many terrible things , you've seen your chimpanzees decrease in number from about one million , at the turn of the century , to no more than 150 , 000 now , and the same with so many other animals .	希望 。 這是我在世界各地問的問題: 「 珍 , 你見過這麼多可怕的事情 , 你看到你的黑猩猩從一個世紀開始 , 開始 , 沒有超過150萬隻 , 和其他其他動物一樣 。
forests disappearing , deserts where once there was forest .	森林消失 , 沙漠一旦有森林 。
do you really have hope ? " well , yes .	你真的有希望嗎 ? " 嗯 , 是的 。
you can't come to a conference like ted and not have hope , can you ?	你不能來到ted的研討會 , 沒有希望 , 可以嗎 ?
and of course , there's hope . one is this amazing human brain .	當然 , 有希望 。 一個是令人驚嘆的人類腦 。
and i mean , think of the technologies .	我的意思是 , 想想科技 。
and i've just been so thrilled , finally , to come to people talking about compost latrines .	最後 , 我一直很興奮 , 終於 , 來到人們談的是創作洛杉磯 。
it's one of my hobbyhorses .	這是我最討厭的其中之一 。
we just flush all this water down the lavatory , it's terrible .	我們只是把這些水流下 , 很可怕 。
and then talking about renewable energy desperately important .	再來談談再生能源的重要性 。
do we care about the planet for our children ?	我們是否在乎我們的孩子嗎 ?
how many of us have children or grandchildren , nieces , nephews ?	有多少人有孩子或孫子 , 姪女 , 新人 ?
do we care about their future ?	我們是否在乎他們的未來嗎 ?
and if we care about their future , we , as the elite around the world , we can do something about it . we can make choices as to how we live each day .	如果我們關心他們的未來 , 我們 , 身為全世界的菁英 , 我們能做點什麼 。 我們可以把選擇做為我們每天的生活 。
what we buy . what we wear .	我們買了什麼 , 穿什麼衣服 。
and choose to make these choices with the question , how will this affect the environment around me ?	選擇讓這些選擇和問題做出選擇 , 如何影響我周遭的環境 ?
how will it affect the life of my child when he or she grows up ?	當他長大後 , 它會如何影響我的孩子的生命 ?
or my grandchild , or whatever it is .	或是我的孫子 , 或任何東西 。
so the human brain , coupled with the human heart , and we join hands around the world .	所以 , 人類的大腦 , 與人類的心 , 我們和世界各地的手合作 。
and that's what ted is helping so well with , and google who help us , and esri are helping us with mapping in gombe national park .	ted是如此的幫助 , 谷歌幫助我們 , esri正在幫助我們 , esri正在幫我們繪製全國公園 。
all of these technologies we can use .	所有我們能使用的技術 。
now let's link them , and it's beginning to happen , isn't it ?	咱們來連結它們 , 開始發生 , 不是嗎 ?
you've heard about it this afternoon . it's beginning to happen .	你已經聽過這個下午 , 開始發生 。
this change , this change . to see change that we must have if we care about the future .	這個改變 , 看看我們是否在乎未來的改變 。
and the next reason for hope nature is amazingly resilient .	希望大自然的下一個理由很了不起 。
you can take an area that's absolutely destroyed , with time and perhaps some help it can regenerate .	你可以拿一個絕對摧毀的區域 , 有時間 , 或許有些幫助它能再生 。
and an example is the tacare program .	一個例子是 「 計劃計畫 」 。
i told you , where a seemingly dead tree stump if you stop hacking them for firewood , which you don't need to because you have wood lots , then in five years you can have a 30foot tree .	我告訴你們 , 似乎是死的樹木 , 如果你停止把它們駭進火災 , 你不需要 , 因為你有木材 , 五年後 , 你可以有30英尺的樹木 。
and animals , almost on the brink of extinction , can be given a second chance . that's my next book .	動物 , 幾乎在滅絕的橋上 , 可能有第二次機會 。 這是我的下一本書 。
it's inspiring . and it brings me to my last category of hope , and we've heard about this so much in the last two days: this indomitable human spirit . this determination of people , the resilience of the human spirit , so that people who you would think would be battered by poverty , or disease , or whatever , can pull themselves up out of it , sometimes with a helping hand , and take their part in society , and take their part in changing the world .	很鼓舞人心 , 讓我帶到我最後的希望 , 我們在過去兩天聽過這一點:這種無限的人類精神 。 人類的靈魂 , 所以你認為你會被貧窮或疾病 , 或疾病 , 不管如何 , 可以把自己推出去 , 有時候 , 在社會改變世界 。
and just to think of one or two people out of africa who are just really inspiring .	想一下 , 非洲有一或兩個人 , 他們真的很鼓舞人心 。
we could make a very long list , but obviously nelson mandela , emerging from 17 years of hard physical labor , 23 years of imprisonment , with this amazing ability to forgive , so that he could lead his nation out the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath .	我們能做出非常長的清單 , 但顯然是nelson曼德拉 , 從17年的硬體勞動力 , 出現了23年的監禁 , 讓他能引領他國家的種族隔離 , 沒有血浴 。
ken sarowiwa , in nigeria , who took on the giant oil companies , and although people around the world tried their best , was executed .	在奈及利亞 , 肯•薩瓦 , 他在巨大的石油公司 , 雖然世界各地的人們都試過最好的 , 被拯救了 。
people like this are so inspirational .	像這樣的人非常靈感 。
people like this are the role models we need for young africans .	像這樣的人 , 是我們對年輕非洲人所需要的角色模式 。
and we need some environmental role models as well , and i've been hearing some of them today .	我們也需要一些環保的模型 , 我今天聽到了其中一些 。
so i'm really grateful for this opportunity to share this message again , with everyone at ted .	所以 , 我非常感謝這個機會再次分享這個訊息 , 和ted的所有人 。
and i hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things , especially the roots and shoots program .	我希望有些人可以一起討論這些事情 , 尤其是根和射擊計畫 。
and just a last word on that the young woman who's running this entire conference center , i met her today .	最後一個字是 , 年輕的女士在進行這整個會議中心 , 我今天見到她 。
she came up so excited , with her certificate . she was [in] roots and shoots .	她很興奮 , 和她的證據很興奮 。 她是 「 根和槍擊 」 。
she was in the leadership in dar es salaam .	她在達爾斯薩拉克的領導人中 。
she said it's helped her to do what she's doing .	她說這是幫助她去做她在做什麼 。
and it was very , very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people , when they are empowered , given the opportunity to take action , to make the world a better place , truly are our hope for tomorrow .	對我來說 , 非常非常令人興奮 , 看看年輕人的一個例子 , 給予行動的機會 , 讓世界變得更好 , 真的是我們今日的希望 。
artist dianna cohen shares some tough truths about plastic pollution in the ocean and in our lives and some thoughts on how to free ourselves from the plastic gyre .	藝術家dannacohen分享了一些艱難的真理 , 關於海洋中的塑膠污染 , 以及我們生活中的一些思想如何免費塑膠灣 。
consumerism , global issues , green , mission blue , oceans , plastic	消費者、全球議題、綠色、任務藍、海洋、塑膠、塑膠、塑膠 , 、全球性的議題 。
dianna cohen: tough truths about plastic pollution	dannacohen:關於塑膠污染污染的艱難真理 。
i'm a visual artist , and i'm also one of the cofounders of the plastic pollution coalition .	我是一個視覺藝術家 , 我也是塑膠污染的共同創辦人之一 。
i've been working with plastic bags , which i cut up and sew back together as my primary material for my artwork for the last 20 years .	我和塑膠袋一起工作 , 我把我最初的材料分解成我過去20年的藝術品 。
i turn them into two and threedimensional pieces and sculptures and installations .	我把它們變成了兩個三維的碎片和雕塑和裝置 。
upon working with the plastic , after about the first eight years , some of my work started to fissure and break down into smaller little bits of plastic .	在這八年後 , 我有一些工作開始累積 , 分裂成小小的塑膠 。
and i thought , " great .	我心想: 「 太棒了 。
it's ephemeral just like us . "	它就像我們一樣 。 」
upon educating myself a little further about plastics , i actually realized this was a bad thing .	教育自己更進一步的教育塑膠 , 我真的意識到這是一件壞事 。
it's a bad thing that plastic breaks down into smaller little bits , because it's always still plastic .	塑膠會分解成小小的小點 , 因為它總是塑膠 。
and what we're finding is that a lot of it is in the marine environment .	我們所發現的是 , 大部份在海洋環境中 。
i then , in the last few years , learned about the pacific garbage patch and the gyre .	在過去幾年 , 我學到了太平洋的垃圾場和gyre 。
and my initial reaction and i think this is a lot of people's first reaction to learning about it is , " oh my god !	我最初的反應 , 我認為這很多人的第一個反應是: 「 天啊 ! 我的天啊 !
we've got to go out there and clean this thing up . "	我們必須走出去 , 清理這個東西 。 」
so i actually developed a proposal to go out with a cargo ship and two decommissioned fishing trawlers , a crane , a chipping machine and a coldmolding machine .	所以 , 我真的開發了一個建議 , 用一艘自行車 , 和兩組的捕魚垃圾機 , 一台拖車機 , 和一台寒冷的機器 。
and my intention was to go out to the gyre , raise awareness about this issue and begin to pick up the plastic , chip it into little bits and cold mold it into bricks that could potentially be used as building materials in underdeveloped communities .	我的意圖是 , 要走向gyre , 提高這個議題 , 開始採取塑膠 , 把塑膠裝入一些小小的模塊 , 將它被用來當作建築物 , 以下的社區 。
i began talking with people who actually had been out to the gyre and were studying the plastic problem in the marine environment and upon doing so , i realized actually that cleaning it up would be a very small drop in the bucket relative to how much is being generated every day around the world , and that actually i needed to back up and look at the bigger picture .	我開始和那些在海軍環境中一直在研究塑膠問題的人說話 , 我發現 , 把它清理成一個非常小的一滴在世界各地產生了多少 , 實際上我需要回顧更大的照片 。
and the bigger picture is: we need to find a way to turn off the faucet .	更大的圖片是:我們需要找到一個方法 , 來阻止它 。
we need to cut the spigot of singleuse and disposable plastics , which are entering the marine environment every day on a global scale .	我們需要把單一的塑膠分開 , 每天都進入海洋環境 。
so in looking at that , i also realized that i was really angry .	所以 , 我也了解到 , 我真的很生氣 。
i wasn't just concerned about plastic that you're trying to imagine out in the middle of the pacific ocean of which i have learned there are now 11 gyres , potentially , of plastic in five major oceans in the world .	我不只關心塑膠你試圖想像在太平洋中間的太平洋中間有11個gre , 可能是世界上五大海裡的塑膠 。
it's not just that gyre of plastic that i'm concerned about it's the gyre of plastic in the supermarket .	不只是我關心的塑膠塑膠 , 是超級市場的塑膠 。
i'd go to the supermarket and all of my food is packaged in plastic .	我會去到超市 , 所有的食物都在塑膠裡包裝 。
all of my beverages are packaged in plastic , even at the health food market .	我所有人都在塑膠裡包裝 , 甚至在健康食物市場 。
i'm also concerned about the plastic in the refrigerator , and i'm concerned about the plastic and the toxins that leach from plastic into us and into our bodies .	我也關心冰箱裡的塑膠 , 我擔心塑膠和塑膠的毒素 , 從塑膠到我們體內 。
so i came together with a group of other people who were all looking at this issue , and we created the plastic pollution coalition .	所以我和一群人一起研究這個議題 , 我們創造了塑膠污染聯盟 。
we have many initiatives that we're working on , but some of them are very basic .	我們有許多我們正在努力的建議 , 但其中的一些是非常基本的 。
one is: if 80 to 90 percent of what we're finding in the ocean of the marine debris that we're finding in the ocean is plastic , then why don't we call it what it is .	一:如果80%到90%的我們在海洋中發現的海洋中發現的海洋是塑膠的 , 那麼為什麼我們不稱它為它是什麼 。
recycling everybody kind of ends their books about being sustainable and greening with the idea of recycling .	回收所有人的書 , 來回收他們的書 , 來回收回收的概念 。
you put something in a bin and you don't have to think about it again .	你把東西放進bin , 你不需要再再思考 。
what is the reality of that ?	什麼是現實呢 ?
in the united states , less than seven percent of our plastics are recycled .	在美國 , 沒有百分之七的塑膠回收 。
and if you really look into it , particularly when it comes to plastic bottles , most of it is only downcycled , or incinerated , or shipped to china .	如果你真的去看它 , 特別是當塑膠瓶時 , 大部分的只是下降 , 或受到緊密 , 或被運送到中國 。
it is downcycled and turned into lesser things , while a glass bottle can be a glass bottle again or can be used again a plastic bottle can never be a plastic bottle again .	它被下降 , 轉化成較少的東西 , 而玻璃瓶可以再次用玻璃瓶 , 或可以再次使用塑膠瓶 , 永遠不會是塑膠瓶 。
so this is a big issue for us .	這對我們來說是個大問題 。
another thing that we're looking at and asking people to think about is we've added a fourth r onto the front of the " reduce , reuse , recycle , " three r's , and that is refuse .	另外一件事 , 我們要問人們思考的是 , 我們加入了四個字母的前方的 「 紅色、回收 」 , 三個r是拒絕的 。
whenever possible , refuse singleuse and disposable plastics .	無論如何 , 拒絕單一的塑膠 。
alternatives exist ; some of them are very oldschool .	替代方案存在 , 有些是很老的學者 。
i myself am now collecting these cool pyrex containers and using those instead of glad and tupperware containers to store food in .	我現在正在收集這些冷酷的x光包器 , 使用這些東西 , 而不是玻璃和豐富的儲存者 , 來儲存食物 。
and i know that i am doing a service to myself and my family .	我知道我是為自己和家人做服務 。
it's very easy to pick up a stainlesssteel bottle or a glass bottle , if you're traveling and you've forgotten to bring your stainlesssteel bottle and fill that up with water or filtered water , versus purchasing plastic bottled water .	很容易拿起一瓶無線電瓶或玻璃瓶 , 如果你在旅行時 , 你就忘了 , 把石油瓶帶到水中或過濾的水裡 , 用塑膠瓶 。
i guess what i want to say to everybody here and i know that you guys know a lot about this issue is that this is a huge problem in the oceans , but this is a problem that we've created as consumers and we can solve .	我猜我想要跟大家說些什麼 , 我知道你們對這個議題知道 , 這問題在於 , 在海洋中 , 這是我們創造的消費者 , 我們可以解決的問題 。
we can solve this by raising awareness of the issue and teaching people to choose alternatives .	我們可以藉由提高議題和教導人們選擇替代方案來解決這個問題 。
so whenever possible , to choose alternatives to singleuse plastics .	所以 , 無論如何 , 選擇替代方案給單一塑膠 。
we can cut the stem tide the stem of this into our oceans and in doing so , save our oceans , save our planet , save ourselves .	我們可以把這首詩縮到我們的海洋中 , 拯救我們的海洋 , 拯救我們的海洋 , 拯救我們的地球 , 拯救我們自己 。
this demo from pattie maes' lab at mit , spearheaded by pranav mistry was the buzz of ted . it's a wearable device with a projector that paves the way for profound interaction with our environment . imagine " minority report " and then some .	由pattiemae實驗室的這個驅動器 , 由pranepre的誤解 , 是ted的buz 。 這是一個可行的裝置 , 用一個專案來維持我們環境的深度互動 。 想像一下: 「 少數的報告 」 , 有些 。
demo , design , interface design , technology	民主、設計、介面設計、科技設計、科技設計、科技設計 。
pattie maes and pranav mistry demo sixthsense	親愛的男孩和豬的錯誤 , 六分之一的敏感度 。
i've been intrigued by this question of whether we could evolve or develop a sixth sense a sense that would give us seamless access and easy access to metainformation or information that may exist somewhere that may be relevant to help us make the right decision about whatever it is that we're coming across .	我對這個問題感到很感興趣 , 是否能演化或開發出六個感知 , 一種感知 , 讓我們無法取得密碼和簡單的資訊 , 可能存在於某些地方 , 幫助我們做出正確的決策 , 不論我們要跨越什麼 。
and some of you may argue , well , don't today's cell phones do that already ?	有些人可能會說 , 嗯 , 今天的手機已經沒用了嗎 ?
but i would say no .	但我會說不 。
when you meet someone here at ted and this is the top networking place , of course , of the year you don't shake somebody's hand and then say , " can you hold on for a moment while i take out my phone and google you ? "	當你在ted見面時 , 這裡是最頂尖的網絡 , 當然 , 你不喜歡某人的手 , 然後說: 「 你能不能在我拿出手機 , google你嗎 ? 」
or when you go to the supermarket and you're standing there in that huge aisle of different types of toilet papers , you don't take out your cell phone , and open a browser , and go to a website to try to decide which of these different toilet papers is the most ecologically responsible purchase to make .	或者 , 當你去超市時 , 你站在那裡 , 站在一個大型不同的廁所中 , 你不會拿你的手機 , 打開瀏覽器 , 去嘗試決定這些不同的廁所是最可負責的購物 。
so we don't really have easy access to all this relevant information that can just help us make optimal decisions about what to do next and what actions to take .	所以 , 我們沒有很容易取得這些相關的資訊 , 才能協助我們做出最佳的決定 , 來做下一步和行動 。
and so my research group at the media lab has been developing a series of inventions to give us access to this information in a sort of easy way , without requiring that the user changes any of their behavior .	所以 , 我在媒體實驗室的研究團隊已經開發了一系列的發明 , 以一種簡單的方式提供這些資訊 , 不用使用者改變他們的行為 。
and i'm here to unveil our latest effort , and most successful effort so far , which is still very much a work in process .	我來這裡要揭露我們最新的努力 , 最成功的努力 , 目前 , 目前還在過程中 , 這項工作很大 。
i'm actually wearing the device right now and we've sort of cobbled it together with components that are off the shelf and that , by the way , only cost 350 dollars at this point in time .	我現在正穿著這個裝置 , 然後我們將它結合在一起 , 把它們結合在一起 , 順便說一下 , 時間只有350美金 。
i'm wearing a camera , just a simple webcam , a portable , batterypowered projection system with a little mirror .	我穿著攝影機 , 只是一個簡單的網誌 , 可攜帶、電池的專案系統 , 和一個小鏡子 。
these components communicate to my cell phone in my pocket which acts as the communication and computation device .	這些元件跟我的手機溝通 , 在我的口袋裡 , 作為溝通和計算設備 。
and in the video here we see my student pranav mistry , who's really the genius who's been implementing and designing this whole system .	在這段影片中 , 我們看到我的學生的意見 , 他們真的是天才 , 他們正在執行和設計整個系統 。
and we see how this system lets him walk up to any surface and start using his hands to interact with the information that is projected in front of him .	我們看到這個系統如何讓他走上任何表面 , 開始用他的手來和他面前的資訊互動 。
the system tracks the four significant fingers .	系統追蹤了四個巨大的手指 。
in this case , he's wearing simple marker caps that you may recognize .	在這個案例中 , 他穿著簡單的標記帽子 , 你可能知道 。
but if you want a more stylish version you could also paint your nails in different colors .	但如果你想要更加精緻的版本 , 你也可以在不同的顏色上畫你的細節 。
and the camera basically tracks these four fingers and recognizes any gestures that he's making so he can just go to , for example , a map of long beach , zoom in and out , etc .	相機基本上追蹤了這四個手指 , 辨識出他所製造的任何特徵 , 例如 , 一個長灘的地圖 , 放大 , 等等 。
the system also recognizes iconic gestures such as the " take a picture " gesture , and then takes a picture of whatever is in front of you .	系統也能辨識出像 「 拍一張照片 」 的形象 , 然後拍一張你面前的照片 。
and when he then walks back to the media lab , he can just go up to any wall and project all the pictures that he's taken , sort through them and organize them , and resize them , etc . , again using all natural gestures .	當他走回媒體實驗室時 , 他就可以去任何牆壁 , 專案他所拍攝的照片 , 包括它們 , 組織它們 , 等等 , 再次使用所有自然的姿勢 。
so , some of you most likely were here two years ago and saw the demo by jeff han or some of you may think , " well , doesn't this look like the microsoft surface table ? "	所以 , 有些人可能在兩年前就在這裡 , 看到傑夫•漢 , 有些人可能會想: 「 嗯 , 這看起來不像微軟的表面桌子 ? 」
and yes , you also interact using natural gestures , both hands , etc .	沒錯 , 你也用天然的姿勢互動 , 雙手等等 。
but the difference here is that you can use any surface , you can walk to up to any surface , including your hand if nothing else is available and interact with this projected data .	但差別是 , 你可以用任何表面 , 你可以走到任何表面 , 包括你的手 , 如果沒有任何東西可以使用 , 和這個專案資料互動 。
the device is completely portable , and can be . . .	裝置是完全可攜帶的 , 可是......
so one important difference is that it's totally mobile .	一個很重要的差異是 , 它是完全移動的 。
another even more important difference is that in mass production this would not cost more tomorrow than today's cell phones and would actually not sort of be a bigger packaging could look a lot more stylish than this version that i'm wearing around my neck .	另一個更重要的差異是 , 在大眾生產 , 這不會比現今的手機更明顯 , 實際上 , 不像一個更大的包裝 , 看起來比我穿著脖子的版本還要多 。
but other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as tom cruise in " minority report , " the reason why we're really excited about this device is that it really can act as one of these sixthsense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you .	但 , 除了讓有些人活在你的幻想中 , 看起來很酷 , 像是 「 少數報告報告 」 , 原因是我們對於這個裝置感到興奮的原因是 , 它真的可以扮演出在你面前的第六個裝置 。
so we see pranav here going into the supermarket and he's shopping for some paper towels .	所以 , 我們在這裡看到的是 「 超市 」 , 他在購買一些紙巾 。
and , as he picks up a product the system can recognize the product that he's picking up , using either image recognition or marker technology , and give him the green light or an orange light .	當他拿起一個產品 , 系統就能辨識出他拿起的產品 , 使用圖像辨識或標記技術 , 給他綠光或橘光 。
he can ask for additional information .	他可以要求更多的資訊 。
so this particular choice here is a particularly good choice , given his personal criteria .	所以這個特定的選擇是特別好的選擇 , 給予他個人的批判 。
some of you may want the toilet paper with the most bleach in it rather than the most ecologicallyresponsible choice .	有些人可能想把廁所的紙和最大麻煩 , 而不是最有責任的生態選擇 。
if he picks up a book in the bookstore , he can get an amazon rating it gets projected right on the cover of the book .	如果他在書中挑一本書 , 他可以拿到亞馬遜的比賽 , 它就在書的封面上投射 。
this is juan's book , our previous speaker , which gets a great rating , by the way , at amazon .	這是jan的書 , 我們先前的演講者 , 順便說一下 , 亞馬遜的評價很大 。
and so , pranav turns the page of the book and can then see additional information about the book reader comments , maybe sort of information by his favorite critic , etc .	所以 , 帕爾維將這本書的頁面 , 看看書讀者的內容 , 也許是他最喜歡的批評 , 等等 。
if he turns to a particular page he finds an annotation by maybe an expert of a friend of ours that gives him a little bit of additional information about whatever is on that particular page .	如果他轉向一個特定的頁面 , 他會找到一個信念 , 也許是一位朋友的專家 , 給他一點額外的資訊 , 關於任何特定的頁面 。
reading the newspaper it never has to be outdated .	閱讀報紙 , 永遠不會被外出 。
you can get video annotations of the event that you're reading about you can get the latest sports scores etc .	你可以得到你在閱讀的事件的影片 , 你可以得到最新的運動比例等等 。
this is a more controversial one .	這是更具爭議性的一件事 。
as you interact with someone at ted , maybe you can see a word cloud of the tags , the words that are associated with that person in their blog and personal web pages .	當你和ted的某人互動時 , 或許你能看到一個 「 標籤 」 這個詞 , 和那個人的部落格和個人網頁有關 。
in this case , the student is interested in cameras , etc .	在這個例子中 , 學生對攝影機有興趣 。
on your way to the airport , if you pick up your boarding pass , it can tell you that your flight is delayed , that the gate has changed , etc .	在你走到機場上 , 如果你拿起你的板子 , 它可以告訴你你的飛行已經被破壞了 , 蓋茲已經改變了 , 等等 。
and , if you need to know what the current time is it's as simple as drawing a watch on your arm .	若你需要知道目前的當下時間是什麼 , 它就好像在你的手臂上繪畫一個眼睛 。
so that's where we're at so far in developing this sixth sense that would give us seamless access to all this relevant information about the things that we may come across .	所以 , 目前我們在開發這個第六個感知 , 讓我們無法取得這些相關的資訊 , 關於我們能跨越的事物 。
my student pranav , who's really , like i said , the genius behind this .	我的學生們 , 其實 , 我說的 , 像我說的 , 這背後的天才 。
he does deserve a lot of applause because i don't think he's slept much in the last three months , actually .	他的確值得很高興 , 因為我不認為他在過去三個月內睡得太多 , 事實上 。
and his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either .	他的女友可能對他來說不高興 。
but it's not perfect yet , it's very much a work in progress .	但這還不是完美的 , 在進步過程中 , 是非常多的 。
and who knows , maybe in another 10 years we'll be here with the ultimate sixth sense brain implant .	誰知道 , 也許在接下來的十年裡 , 我們將來會和第六感官的腦植入在一起 。
phyllis rodriguez and aicha elwafi have a powerful friendship born of unthinkable loss . rodriguez' son was killed in the world trade center attacks on september 11 , 2001 ; elwafi's son zacarias moussaoui was convicted of a role in those attacks and is serving a life sentence . in hoping to find peace , these two moms have come to understand and respect one another .	2001年9月11日 , 艾瑞克•羅斯和阿加爾有強大的友誼 , 羅德里茲的兒子被殺害了 , 2001年9月11日 , elwafi的兒子zarussauui被禁止在那些攻擊中被禁止 , 提供了一名生命的句子 。
culture , global issues , politics	文化、全球政治、政治、政治 。
9/11 healing: the mothers who found forgiveness , friendship	9/11的治癒:被發現寬恕、友誼的母親 。
phyllis rodriguez: we are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship .	博士•羅德里茲:今天我們在這裡 , 是因為我們有最多人認為一個不尋常的友誼 。
and yet , it feels natural to us now .	然而 , 對我們來說 , 感覺很自然 。
i first learned that my son had been in the world trade center on the morning of september 11th , 2001 .	我首先發現 , 我的兒子在191年9月11日到2001年9月11日 。
we didn't know if he had perished yet until 36 hours later .	我們還不知道他是否有活下來 , 直到36小時後 。
at the time , we knew that it was political .	當時 , 我們知道它是政治的 。
we were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son my husband , orlando , and i and our family .	我們害怕我們的國家會怎麼做 , 在我們兒子的名字中 , 我的丈夫 , 奧地蘭多 , 我和我們的家人 。
and when i saw it and yet , through the shock , the terrible shock , and the terrible explosion in our lives , literally , we were not vengeful .	當我看到它時 , 經過震驚 , 恐怖的震驚 , 我們的生活中最糟糕的爆炸 , 其實 , 我們並沒有被強化 。
and a couple of weeks later when zacarias moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism , and the u . s . government called for a death penalty for him , if convicted , my husband and i spoke out in opposition to that , publicly .	幾週後 , zacarariasmosaui已經指出六個對抗恐怖主義的懲罰 , 美國政府稱他為死刑 , 假如我和我的丈夫和公開討論 。
through that and through human rights groups , we were brought together with several other victims' families .	透過這個 , 透過人權團體 , 我們帶了許多其他受害者的家庭 。
when i saw aicha in the media , coming over when her son was indicted , and i thought , " what a brave woman .	當我在媒體上看到阿拉伯 , 當她兒子被警告時 , 我心想: 「 勇敢的女人 。
someday i want to meet that woman when i'm stronger . "	有一天 , 我想要和那個女人見面 。 」
i was still in deep grief ; i knew i didn't have the strength .	我還在深深的悲慟中 , 我知道我沒有力量 。
i knew i would find her someday , or we would find each other .	我知道我有一天會找到她 , 或者我們會互相找到彼此 。
because , when people heard that my son was a victim , i got immediate sympathy .	因為 , 當人們聽到我的兒子是受害者 , 我馬上就有同情 。
but when people learned what her son was accused of , she didn't get that sympathy .	但當人們知道她兒子被指控的時候 , 她沒有同情心 。
but her suffering is equal to mine .	但她的苦難和我一樣 。
so we met in november 2002 , and aicha will now tell you how that came about .	所以 , 我們在2002年11月見面 , 阿加哈現在會告訴你這怎麼來 。
aicha elwafi: good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen .	aichaelwafi:好的下午 , 女士和先生們 。
i am the mother of zacarias moussaoui .	我是zacarariamoussaui的母親 。
and i asked the organization of human rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims .	我問了人類權利的組織 , 讓我和受害者的父母接觸 。
so they introduced me to five families .	所以他們把我介紹給五個家庭 。
and i saw phyllis , and i watched her .	我看到了phyllis , 我看著她 。
she was the only mother in the group .	她是團體中唯一的母親 。
the others were brothers , sisters .	其他人是兄弟姐妹 。
and i saw in her eyes that she was a mother , just like me .	我看到她的眼睛 , 她是個母親 , 就像我一樣 。
i suffered a lot as a mother .	身為一個母親 , 我受苦很多 。
i was married when i was 14 .	我14歲時結婚 。
i lost a child when i was 15 , a second child when i was 16 .	當我十五歲時 , 我在十六歲時失去了一個孩子 。
so the story with zacarias was too much really .	所以 , zacaria的故事太多了 。
and i still suffer , because my son is like he's buried alive .	我仍然受苦 , 因為我的兒子就像他活著一樣 。
i know she really cried for her son .	我知道她真的哭了她兒子 。
but she knows where he is .	但她知道他在哪裡 。
my son , i don't know where he is .	我的兒子 , 我不知道他在哪裡 。
i don't know if he's alive . i don't know if he's tortured .	我不知道他是否活著 , 我不知道他是否有害 。
i don't know what happened to him .	我不知道他發生了什麼事 。
so that's why i decided to tell my story , so that my suffering is something positive for other women .	因此 , 這就是為什麼我決定說我的故事 , 所以我的苦難對其他女性來說是正面的 。
for all the women , all the mothers that give life , you can give back , you can change .	對所有婦女 , 所有給予生命的母親 , 你可以回饋 , 你可以改變 。
it's up to us women , because we are women , because we love our children .	我們是女性 , 因為我們是女性 , 因為我們喜歡我們的孩子 。
we must be handinhand and do something together .	我們必須是手手 , 一起做點什麼 。
it's not against women , it's for us , for us women , for our children .	這不是對女性來說 , 對我們來說 , 對女性來說 , 對我們的孩子來說 , 對我們的孩子 。
i talk against violence , against terrorism .	我對抗暴力 , 反對恐怖主義 。
i go to schools to talk to young , muslim girls so they don't accept to be married against their will very young .	我去學校和年輕的穆斯林女孩談話 , 讓他們不接受結婚 , 反對他們的意志很年輕 。
so if i can save one of the young girls , and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as i did , well this is something good .	所以如果我能拯救其中一位年輕女孩 , 避免他們結婚和苦難 , 如我所做的 , 這是一件好事 。
this is why i'm here in front of you .	這就是我在你們面前的原因 。
pr: i would like to say that i have learned so much from aicha , starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members which was a very private meeting with security , because it was november 2002 , and , frankly , we were afraid of the superpatriotism of that time in the country those of us family members .	帕特:我想說 , 我從阿加哈學到這麼多 , 從那天開始 , 我們和其他家庭成員一起參加一個非常私人的會議 , 因為那是2002年11月 , 坦白說 , 我們害怕那個時代的超級抗議主義主義者 。
but we were all so nervous .	但我們都很緊張 。
" why does she want to meet us ? "	「 為什麼她要跟我們見面 ? 」
and then she was nervous .	然後她很緊張 。
" why did we want to meet her ? "	「 我們為什麼要見她 ? 」
what did we want from each other ?	我們對彼此想要什麼呢 ?
before we knew each others' names , or anything , we had embraced and wept .	在我們認識彼此的名字之前 , 或任何東西 , 我們都在擁抱和無線網路上 。
then we sat in a circle with support , with help , from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation .	接著 , 我們坐在一個與支持的圈子中 , 從人體驗到這種相互聯繫 。
and aicha started , and she said , " i don't know if my son is guilty or innocent , but i want to tell you how sorry i am for what happened to your families .	艾卡開始 , 她說: 「 我不知道我的兒子是否是罪惡或無辜 , 但我想告訴你們 , 我對你的家人有多抱歉 。
i know what it is to suffer , and i feel that if there is a crime , a person should be tried fairly and punished . "	我知道這是什麼是痛苦的 , 我覺得如果有犯罪 , 一個人應該很公平地嘗試和懲罰 。 」
but she reached out to us in that way , and it was , i'd like to say , it was an icebreaker .	但她在那方面向我們伸出去 , 我想說 , 這是個冰箱 。
and what happened then is we all told our stories , and we all connected as human beings .	接下來發生的是 , 我們都告訴我們的故事 , 我們都與人類連結在一起 。
by the end of the afternoon it was about three hours after lunch we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever .	在午餐後結束時 , 大約有三小時 , 我們就會感覺到 , 就像我們永遠都知道的一樣 。
now what i learned from her , is a woman , not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then , and what was being done to her son , but the life she's had .	我從她身上學到的 , 是一位女人 , 不只能在現場的環境下被遺傳的情況下 , 以及當時的狀況 , 以及她的兒子做了什麼 , 但她有的生命 。
i never had met someone with such a hard life , from such a totally different culture and environment from my own .	我從來沒有遇過這種艱難生活的人 , 從這個完全不同的文化和環境來源 。
and i feel that we have a special connection , which i value very much .	我覺得我們有特殊的連結 , 我非常重視 。
and i think it's all about being afraid of the other , but making that step and then realizing , " hey , this wasn't so hard .	我覺得這一切都是關於害怕別人的 , 但讓這步驟 , 然後開始意識到: 「 嘿 , 這不太難了 。
who else can i meet that i don't know , or that i'm so different from ? "	誰可以跟我不知道 , 或那我是如此不同的 ? 」
so , aicha , do you have a couple of words for conclusion ?	所以 , 阿卡 , 你有幾個字符合結論嗎 ?
because our time is up .	因為我們的時間在上升 。
aw: i wanted to say that we have to try to know other people , the other .	aw:我想說 , 我們必須試著認識別人 , 另一位 。
you have to be generous , and your hearts must be generous , your mind must be generous .	你必須是慷慨的 , 你的心必須是慷慨的 , 你的腦袋一定是慷慨的 。
you must be tolerant .	你一定要被移除 。
you have to fight against violence .	你必須對抗暴力 。
and i hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other .	我希望有一天 , 我們都一起生活在和平和尊重彼此 。
this is what i wanted to say .	這是我想要說的 。
too much of the world lacks access to clean drinking water . engineer michael pritchard did something about it inventing the portable lifesaver filter , which can make the most revolting water drinkable in seconds . an amazing demo from tedglobal 2009 .	世界上太多人都無法取得乾淨飲用水 。 工程師麥可.米爾•米特.米爾做了一件關於它發明了可攜的生命過濾濾器 , 使得在2009年時 , 最精彩的水飲用 。 從tedglobal的tedglobal 。
business , demo , design , global issues , invention , technology , water	商業、設計、全球性的議題、發明、科技、水、水、水源、汽車、科技、科技、水源、水源、水、水源、
michael pritchard's water filter turns filthy water drinkable	michaelprichard的水濾過濾 , 轉換過濾水 , 可喝的水 。
i'd like to talk about a couple of things today .	今天我要談一些事情 。
the first thing is water .	第一件事是水 。
now i see you've all been enjoying the water that's been provided for you here at the conference , over the past couple of days .	現在 , 我看到你們都很享受在場的水 , 在這場會議中提供的水 , 在過去幾天 。
and i'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source .	我相信你會覺得它來自安全來源 。
but what if it wasn't ?	但如果不是這樣呢 ?
what if it was from a source like this ?	如果它來自像這樣的來源呢 ?
then statistics would actually say that half of you would now be suffering with diarrhea .	統計數據會說 , 現在有一半的人會受到腹瀉的苦難 。
i talked a lot in the past about statistics , and the provision of safe drinking water for all .	我在過去談了很多關於統計數據的演講 , 關於安全飲用水的建議 。
but they just don't seem to get through .	但他們似乎不見得了 。
and i think i've worked out why .	我認為我為何要做 。
it's because , using current thinking , the scale of the problem just seems too huge to contemplate solving .	因為 , 使用目前的思考 , 問題的規模似乎太大了 , 讓解決解決問題的規模太大了 。
so we just switch off: us , governments and aid agencies .	所以 , 我們剛開關了:我們、政府、援助機構 。
well , today , i'd like to show you that through thinking differently , the problem has been solved .	今天 , 我想告訴各位 , 透過不同的思考 , 問題已經解決了 。
by the way , since i've been speaking , another 13 , 000 people around the world are suffering now with diarrhea .	順便說一提 , 自從我說話 , 世界上有13 , 000人現在在苦難 。
and four children have just died .	四個孩子已經死了 。
i invented lifesaver bottle because i got angry .	我發明了生命的瓶子 , 因為我很生氣 。
i , like most of you , was sitting down , the day after christmas in 2004 , when i was watching the devastating news of the asian tsunami as it rolled in , playing out on tv .	我和大部分人一樣 , 坐在2004年聖誕節後一天 , 當我看著亞洲海嘯的破壞消息時 , 在電視上演出 。
the days and weeks that followed , people fleeing to the hills , being forced to drink contaminated water or face death .	接下來的日子和幾個星期 , 人們逃到山丘 , 被迫喝污染的水或死亡 。
that really stuck with me .	那真的很困擾我 。
then , a few months later , hurricane katrina slammed into the side of america .	接著 , 幾個月後 , 颶風卡崔娜在美國的一面 。
" okay , " i thought , " here's a first world country , let's see what they can do . "	「 好 , 」 我想: 「 這裡是第一個世界國家 , 讓我們看看他們能做什麼 。 」
do you know it took five days to get water to the superdome ?	你知道嗎 ? 花了五天才能把水帶到超級dome嗎 ?
people were shooting each other on the streets for tv sets and water .	人們在街上射擊彼此 , 為了電視和水 。
that's when i decided i had to do something .	那時我決定要做點什麼 。
now i spent a lot of time in my garage , over the next weeks and months , and also in my kitchen much to the dismay of my wife .	現在我花了很多時間在我的車庫裡 , 在接下來的幾週和幾個月內 , 在我的廚房裡 , 我太太太了 。
however , after a few failed prototypes , i finally came up with this , the lifesaver bottle .	然而 , 在幾種失敗的原型之後 , 我終於想出了這個 , 生命的瓶子 。
okay , now for the science bit .	好的 , 現在 , 為科學方面 。
before lifesaver , the best hand filters were only capable of filtering down to about 200 nanometers .	在生命總署之前 , 最好的濾器只能過濾到大約200奈米 。
the smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers .	最小的細菌大約是200奈米 。
so a 200nanometer bacteria is going to get through a 200nanometer hole .	所以 , 一個200奈米的細菌將會經過200奈米的洞 。
the smallest virus , on the other hand , is about 25 nanometers .	另一方面 , 最小的病毒大約是25奈米 。
so that's definitely going to get through those 200 nanometer holes .	所以這絕對是要穿越那200奈米的洞 。
lifesaver pores are 15 nanometers .	生命的面積是15奈米 。
so nothing is getting through .	所以 , 什麼都沒有發生 。
okay , i'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration .	好 , 我要給你們看一些示範 。
would you like to see that ?	你想看看嗎 ?
i spent all the time setting this up , so i guess i should .	我花了很多時間設定 , 所以我猜我應該做 。
we're in the fine city of oxford .	我們正處於牛津市 。
so someone's done that up .	所以 , 有人這麼做了 。
fine city of oxford , so what i've done is i've gone and got some water from the river cherwell , and the river thames , that flow through here . and this is the water .	牛津市 , 我做的是從河流中取得一些水 , 河流流的河流 , 河流流流過這裡 。 這是水 。
but i got to thinking , you know , if we were in the middle of a flood zone in bangladesh , the water wouldn't look like this .	但我想 , 如果我們在孟加拉的洪水區中間 , 水不會像這樣 。
so i've gone and got some stuff to add into it .	所以 , 我已經去加入一些東西了 。
and this is from my pond .	這是我的警察 。
have a smell of that , mister cameraman .	有個氣味 , 誤解攝影師 。
we're just going to pour that in there .	我們正要在那邊游泳 。
michael pritchard: okay . we've got some runoff from a sewage plant farm .	michaelprichard:好的 , 我們已經從一個廢棄的農場得到了一些經營 。
so i'm just going to put that in there .	所以我要把這放進去 。
put that in there . there we go .	把它放進去 , 我們就去了 。
and some other bits and pieces , chuck that in there .	有些其他的點和碎片 , 把它放在那裏 。
and i've got a gift here from a friend of mine's rabbit .	我這裡有一個禮物來自我朋友的兔子 。
so we're just going to put that in there as well .	所以 , 我們也要把它放進去 。
the lifesaver bottle works really simply .	生命的瓶子真的很簡單 。
you just scoop the water up .	你只是把水放上去 。
today i'm going to use a jug just to show you all . let's get a bit of that poo in there .	今天我要用一個法官來給你們看 , 咱們來這裡有一點點 。
that's not dirty enough . let's just stir that up a little bit .	這還不夠髒 。 讓我們稍微累積一下 。
okay , so i'm going to take this really filthy water , and put it in here . do you want a drink yet ?	好的 , 我要把這個非常沉默的水放進這裡 , 請你還想要喝酒嗎 ?
okay . there we go .	好的 , 我們去了 。
give it a few pumps . okay ?	給它一些泵 , 好嗎 ?
that's all that's necessary .	這是必要的 。
now as soon as i pop the teat , sterile drinking water is going to come out .	一旦我把茶吃掉 , 偷偷的飲用水會出去 。
i've got to be quick . okay , ready ?	我得很快 , 準備好了嗎 ?
there we go . mind the electrics .	我們去了 , 請注意電力 。
that is safe , sterile drinking water .	那很安全 , 很穩定的飲用水 。
there you go chris .	你去了克里斯 。
what's it taste of ?	它是什麼樣的味道 ?
let's see chris's program throughout the rest of the show . okay ?	咱們來看看克里斯在節目的其他節目 。 好嗎 ?
okay . lifesaver bottle is used by thousands of people around the world .	好的 。 世界各地的數千人被使用 。
it'll last for 6 , 000 liters .	它會持續在6 , 000公升 。
and when it's expired , using failsafe technology , the system will shut off , protecting the user .	當它爆發時 , 使用失敗的技術 , 系統會被關掉 , 保護使用者 。
pop the cartridge out . pop a new one in .	把車子放出去 , 把一個新東西放進去 。
it's good for another 6 , 000 liters .	這對另外六千名列師來說是好的 。
so let's look at the applications .	讓我們來看看應用程式 。
traditionally , in a crisis , what do we do ?	傳統來說 , 在危機中 , 我們該怎麼做 ?
then , after a few weeks , we set up camps .	接著 , 幾週後 , 我們開始營地 。
and people are forced to come into the camps to get their safe drinking water .	人們被迫走進營中 , 來取得安全飲用水 。
what happens when 20 , 000 people congregate in a camp ?	當兩萬人聚集在營地時 , 會發生什麼事 ?
diseases spread . more resources are required .	疾病散播 , 更多資源都需要 。
the problem just becomes selfperpetuating .	問題就變成了自我分散 。
but by thinking differently , and shipping these , people can stay put .	但 , 用不同的方式思考 , 然後運送這些 , 人們可以留下 。
they can make their own sterile drinking water , and start to get on with rebuilding their homes and their lives .	他們可以自己喝水 , 開始重建他們的家園和生活 。
now , it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work .	現在 , 它不需要一個自然災難來工作 。
using the old thinking , of national infrastructure and pipe work , is too expensive .	用舊的思考 , 國家基礎建設和pipe工作 , 太昂貴了 。
when you run the numbers on a calculator , you run out of noughts .	當你在計算機運行時 , 你就跑出笑聲 。
so here is the " thinking different " bit .	這裡是 「 思考不一樣 」 。
instead of shipping water , and using manmade processes to do it , let's use mother nature . she's got a fantastic system .	不用運輸水 , 用人造程序來做 , 讓我們用大自然 。 她有很棒的系統 。
she picks the water up from there , desalinates it , for free , transports it over there , and dumps it onto the mountains , rivers , and streams .	她從那裡拿出水 , 把水放進去 , 把它放到那邊 , 把它放到山上 , 河流和溪流中 。
and where do people live ? near water .	人們住在哪裡 ? 附近的水 。
all we've go to do is make it sterile . how do we do that ?	我們只要做的就是讓它變得很穩定 。 我們該怎麼做 ?
well , we could use the lifesaver bottle .	嗯 , 我們可以用生命的瓶子 。
or we could use one of these .	或者 , 我們可以使用其中一個 。
the same technology , in a jerry can .	同樣的科技 , 在一個珠寶能 。
this will process 25 , 000 liters of water ; that's good enough for a family of four , for three years .	這會處理25000公尺的水 , 這對四個家庭來說是夠好的 , 三年來 。
and how much does it cost ?	成本有多少成本 ?
about half a cent a day to run .	大約有一天半分之一的跑步 。
so , by thinking differently , and processing water at the point of use , mothers and children no longer have to walk four hours a day to collect their water .	所以 , 用不同的方式思考 , 在使用時期 , 母親和孩子們不再需要每天四個小時才能收集他們的水 。
they can get it from a source nearby .	它們可以從附近的來源取得它 。
so with just eight billion dollars , we can hit the millennium goal's target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water .	所以 , 只有八十億美金 , 我們可以打擊千禧年的目標 , 讓人們無法取得安全飲用水 。
to put that into context , the u . k . government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid .	為了將這點放到情境上 , 美國政府每年花了大約12億磅的外國援助 。
but why stop there ?	但為什麼要停下來呢 ?
with 20 billion dollars , everyone can have access to safe drinking water .	有20億美元 , 每個人都能取得安全飲用水 。
so the threeandahalf billion people that suffer every year as a result , and the two million kids that die every year , will live .	所以 , 每年有三十億人每年受苦 , 每年有兩百萬個孩子死亡 , 將會活下來 。
paddy ashdown claims that we are living in a moment in history where power is changing in ways it never has before . in a spellbinding talk at tedxbrussels he outlines the three major global shifts that he sees coming .	廣播廣告宣稱我們在歷史上 , 在歷史上 , 權力正在改變它以前從來沒有過的方式 。 在tedxussel的演講中 , 他指出他所看到的三大轉變 。
foreign policy , global issues , politics , world cultures	外國政策、全球議題、政治、世界文化文化、世界文化 。
paddy ashdown: the global power shift	adadden:全球的權力轉變 , 轉變了 。
there's a poem written by a very famous english poet at the end of the 19th century .	在19世紀末 , 有一首詩被一首非常著名的英文詩人寫作 。
it was said to echo in churchill's brain in the 1930s .	在1930年代 , 伊斯蘭的大腦被告知 。
and the poem goes: " on the idle hill of summer , lazy with the flow of streams , hark i hear a distant drummer , drumming like a sound in dreams , far and near and low and louder on the roads of earth go by , dear to friend and food to powder , soldiers marching , soon to die . "	首詩說: 「 夏天 , 夏天 , 躺在溪流中 , 我聽到一個遙遠的戲劇家 , 鼓動了 , 像一個在夢中、遙遠、附近、低潮的路上 , 被朋友和食物傳送 , 很快就死了 。 」
those who are interested in poetry , the poem is " a shropshire lad " written by a . e . housman .	那些對詩有興趣的人 , 詩是 「 一名商店女士 」 寫的 , 由一名荷蘭人寫的 。
but what housman understood , and you hear it in the symphonies of nielsen too , was that the long , hot , silvan summers of stability of the 19th century were coming to a close , and that we were about to move into one of those terrifying periods of history when power changes .	但 , 霍斯曼明白了什麼 , 你也聽到在尼爾斯的理論中 , 是19世紀的長期、熱熱和的夏天 , 我們將要搬到其中一個恐怖的歷史改變時期 。
and these are always periods , ladies and gentlemen , accompanied by turbulence , and all too often by blood .	這些都是經常的時期 , 女士們先生們 , 被摧殘的 , 常常常被血流傳染 。
and my message for you is that i believe we are condemned , if you like , to live at just one of those moments in history when the gimbals upon which the established order of power is beginning to change and the new look of the world , the new powers that exist in the world , are beginning to take form .	而我的訊息是 , 我相信我們已經被認定了 , 如果你想要活在歷史上 , 其中一個時刻 , 當最新的力量開始改變和世界的新角度 , 正開始採取形式 。
and these are and we see it very clearly today nearly always highly turbulent times , highly difficult times , and all too often very bloody times .	現今 , 我們很明顯地看到它 , 幾乎總是高度不穩定的時機 , 很困難 , 很多時候都很血 。
by the way , it happens about once every century .	順便一提 , 每一世紀發生了 。
you might argue that the last time it happened and that's what housman felt coming and what churchill felt too was that when power passed from the old nations , the old powers of europe , across the atlantic to the new emerging power of the united states of america the beginning of the american century .	你可能會說 , 上次發生了 , 這是霍華曼的感覺 , 以及教會的感覺 , 當權力來自舊國家 , 歐洲的舊權力 , 橫跨美國的大西洋 , 美國的新興力量 。
and of course , into the vacuum where the tooold european powers used to be were played the two bloody catastrophes of the last century the one in the first part and the one in the second part: the two great world wars .	當然 , 在真空中 , 當時的歐洲權力被用來扮演上個世紀的二個血液災難 , 第二個部分:兩個偉大的世界戰爭 。
mao zedong used to refer to them as the european civil wars , and it's probably a more accurate way of describing them .	麥隆曾經把他們稱為歐洲大戰 , 可能是更精確的描述方式來描述它們 。
well , ladies and gentlemen , we live at one of those times .	各位先生女士 , 我們住在其中一個時代 。
but for us , i want to talk about three factors today .	但對我們來說 , 我今天要談談三個因素 。
and the first of these , the first two of these , is about a shift in power .	首先 , 首先 , 這兩個 , 重點在於權力的轉變 。
and the second is about some new dimension which i want to refer to , which has never quite happened in the way it's happening now .	第二個是關於我想要重建的新維度 , 這從來沒有發生在它現在發生的情況下 。
but let's talk about the shifts of power that are occurring to the world .	但 , 讓我們來談談世界上的權力轉變 。
and what is happening today is , in one sense , frightening because it's never happened before .	今天正在發生的事是 , 一方面來說 , 很害怕 , 因為它從來沒有發生過 。
we have seen lateral shifts of power the power of greece passed to rome and the power shifts that occurred during the european civilizations but we are seeing something slightly different .	我們看過後的力量轉變了希臘的力量 , 在歐洲文明中發生的力量 , 我們看到了一些不一樣的東西 。
for power is not just moving laterally from nation to nation .	權力不僅僅是從國家到國家 。
it's also moving vertically .	它也在垂直移動 。
what's happening today is that the power that was encased , held to accountability , held to the rule of law , within the institution of the nation state has now migrated in very large measure onto the global stage .	今天的情況是 , 被監禁的權力 , 對於法律的規則 , 以法律的制度來移植在全球階段的大量測量 。
the globalization of power we talk about the globalization of markets , but actually it's the globalization of real power .	全球化的權力 , 我們談到市場的全球化 , 但實際上是真正的權力 。
and where , at the nation state level that power is held to accountability subject to the rule of law , on the international stage it is not .	在這個國家國家的層級 , 權力是對法律規則的負責主題 , 在國際舞台上 , 並非如此 。
the international stage and the global stage where power now resides: the power of the internet , the power of the satellite broadcasters , the power of the money changers this vast moneygoround that circulates now 32 times the amount of money necessary for the trade it's supposed to be there to finance the money changers , if you like , the financial speculators that have brought us all to our knees quite recently , the power of the multinational corporations now developing budgets often bigger than mediumsized countries .	國際階段和全球階段 , 現在的權力是:網路的力量 , 衛星廣播廣播者的力量 , 這項大量的金錢改革 , 如今交易的必要費用的費用 , 應該要有金錢改善金錢的改革 , 如果你喜歡 , 財務的推動者 , 最近我們所有人都帶給我們的膝蓋爾的公司 。
these live in a global space which is largely unregulated , not subject to the rule of law , and in which people may act free of constraint .	這些生活在一個巨大的全球空間中 , 不是被監控的法律規則 , 人們可能選擇自由的限制 。
now that suits the powerful up to a moment .	現在 , 這套裝置是很強大的 。
it's always suitable for those who have the most power to operate in spaces without constraint , but the lesson of history is that , sooner or later , unregulated space space not subject to the rule of law becomes populated , not just by the things you wanted international trade , the internet , etc . but also by the things you don't want international criminality , international terrorism .	對那些沒有限制的空間的人來說 , 總是能有最多的權力 , 但歷史的教訓是 , 不久後 , 不管法律的規則 , 不只因為你想要國際貿易、網路 , 等等 , 你不想說國際犯罪、國際恐怖主義 。
the revelation of 9/11 is that even if you are the most powerful nation on earth , nevertheless , those who inhabit that space can attack you even in your most iconic of cities one bright september morning .	911事件的揭示 , 即使你是地球上最強大的國家 , 不然 , 那些居住空間的人甚至可以在你最明顯的城市早上攻擊你 。
it's said that something like 60 percent of the four million dollars that was taken to fund 9/11 actually passed through the institutions of the twin towers which 9/11 destroyed .	它說 , 大約有百分之六十五十萬美金 , 由911的資金來資助911大樓的機構 , 可是9/11摧毀了 。
you see , our enemies also use this space the space of mass travel , the internet , satellite broadcasters to be able to get around their poison , which is about destroying our systems and our ways .	你看 , 我們的敵人也使用這個空間 , 大規模旅行、網路、衛星廣播者 , 來在他們的毒品中取得 , 就是破壞我們的系統和路 。
sooner or later , sooner or later , the rule of history is that where power goes governance must follow .	不久後 , 不久後 , 歷史的規則是 , 權力在哪裡要遵循 。
and if it is therefore the case , as i believe it is , that one of the phenomenon of our time is the globalization of power , then it follows that one of the challenges of our time is to bring governance to the global space .	假如我相信這個案例是 , 我們當時的一個現象是全球化的力量 , 那麼 , 我們的時間挑戰的其中一個挑戰就是將國際空間帶進去 。
and i believe that the decades ahead of us now will be to a greater or lesser extent turbulent the more or less we are able to achieve that aim: to bring governance to the global space .	我相信 , 數十年來 , 我們現在會變得更大或更少 , 我們能達成目標:將國際空間帶進國際空間 。
now notice , i'm not talking about government .	注意一下 , 我不是在談政府 。
i'm not talking about setting up some global democratic institution .	我不是在說要建立一些全球民主機構 。
my own view , by the way , ladies and gentlemen , is that this is unlikely to be done by spawning more u . n . institutions .	順帶一提 , 我自己的觀點 , 各位先生女士們 , 這不太可能是用更多的聯合國機構來做 。
if we didn't have the u . n . , we'd have to invent it .	如果我們沒有聯合國 , 我們就得要發明它 。
the world needs an international forum .	世界需要國際論壇 。
it needs a means by which you can legitimize international action .	它需要一個意義 , 你可以合法化國際行動 。
but when it comes to governance of the global space , my guess is this won't happen through the creation of more u . n . institutions .	但當它來到全球空間的治理時 , 我的猜測是 , 這不會發生越多聯合國機構 。
it will actually happen by the powerful coming together and making treatybased systems , treatybased agreements , to govern that global space .	實際上 , 強大的成果會發生 , 以治療為基礎的系統、治療協議 , 來管理這個全球空間 。
and if you look , you can see them happening , already beginning to emerge .	如果你看 , 你可以看到它們正在發生 , 已經開始出現了 。
the world trade organization: treatybased organization , entirely treatybased , and yet , powerful enough to hold even the most powerful , the united states , to account if necessary .	世界貿易組織:治療基礎組織 , 完全依賴基礎 , 然而 , 強大的確保美國最強大、美國 , 如果必要的話 。
kyoto: the beginnings of struggling to create a treatybased organization .	kyoto:努力創造一個治療基礎組織的開端 。
the g20: we know now that we have to put together an institution which is capable of bringing governance to that financial space for financial speculation .	g20:我們現在知道 , 我們必須組成一個機構 , 讓金融空間可以把政府改善為財務空間 。
and that's what the g20 is , a treatybased institution .	這就是g20的樣子 , 一個以治療為基礎的機構 。
now there's a problem there , and we'll come back to it in a minute , which is that if you bring the most powerful together to make the rules in treatybased institutions , to fill that governance space , then what happens to the weak who are left out ?	這裡有一個問題 , 我們會再回來 , 一分鐘後 , 若你把最強大的結合在一起 , 把規則放在治療的制度上 , 去填補那些治理空間 , 那麼那些離開的弱點呢 ?
and that's a big problem , and we'll return to it in just a second .	這是個大問題 , 我們會再回到一秒鐘 。
so there's my first message , that if you are to pass through these turbulent times more or less turbulently , then our success in doing that will in large measure depend on our capacity to bring sensible governance to the global space .	所以 , 我的第一個訊息是 , 如果你要通過這些不穩定的時機 , 那麼我們的成功會在大規模的測量程度下依賴我們對全球空間帶來敏感的治理 。
and watch that beginning to happen .	看看這開始發生 。
my second point is , and i know i don't have to talk to an audience like this about such a thing , but power is not just shifting vertically , it's also shifting horizontally .	我的第二點是 , 我知道我不需要和像這樣的觀眾談話 , 但權力不僅僅是垂直轉變 , 也改變了地平線 。
you might argue that the story , the history of civilizations , has been civilizations gathered around seas with the first ones around the mediterranean , the more recent ones in the ascendents of western power around the atlantic .	你可能會說 , 文明的歷史 , 文明的歷史 , 被文明聚集在海平面上 , 最近期的西方權力在大西洋 。
well it seems to me that we're now seeing a fundamental shift of power , broadly speaking , away from nations gathered around the atlantic [seaboard] to the nations gathered around the pacific rim .	對我來說 , 我們現在看到一個基本的權力轉變 , 廣泛地說話 , 從大西洋的國家聚集到太平洋的河流 。
now that begins with economic power , but that's the way it always begins .	這從經濟力量開始 , 但那就是它總是開始的 。
you already begin to see the development of foreign policies , the augmentation of military budgets occurring in the other growing powers in the world .	你已經開始看到外交政策的發展 , 軍事預算的擴增 , 在世界上其他的增長權力 。
i think actually this is not so much a shift from the west to the east ; something different is happening .	我認為這不是從西方轉移到東方 ; 有些不同的事情正在發生 。
my guess is , for what it's worth , is that the united states will remain the most powerful nation on earth for the next 10 years , 15 , but the context in which she holds her power has now radically altered ; it has radically changed .	我的猜測是 , 值得注意的是 , 美國會維持未來十年最強大的國家 , 十五年來 , 但她的權力已經徹底改變了 ; 它已經徹底改變了 。
we are coming out of 50 years , most unusual years , of history in which we have had a totally monopolar world , in which every compass needle for or against has to be referenced by its position to washington a world bestrode by a single colossus .	我們從50年來 , 最不尋常的年來 , 我們有著完全獨立世界的歷史 , 每一針都要對華盛頓的位置來接觸一個單獨的同步世界 。
but that's not a usual case in history .	但這不是歷史上常見的案例 。
in fact , what's now emerging is the much more normal case of history .	事實上 , 現在的新興是歷史上最正常的案例 。
you're beginning to see the emergence of a multipolar world .	你開始看到一個多個世界的出現 。
up until now , the united states has been the dominant feature of our world .	直到現在 , 美國一直是我們世界的主要特徵 。
they will remain the most powerful nation , but they will be the most powerful nation in an increasingly multipolar world .	他們會維持最強大的國家 , 但他們會成為更強大的國家 , 在越來越多世界中 。
and you begin to see the alternative centers of power building up in china , of course , though my own guess is that china's ascent to greatness is not smooth .	當然 , 你開始看到中國的電力建設的替代中心 , 雖然我自己的猜測是中國的優秀是不滑的 。
it's going to be quite grumpy as china begins to democratize her society after liberalizing her economy .	隨著中國開始將她的社會民主化 , 在自由化經濟之後 , 將會變得很痛苦 。
but that's a subject of a different discussion .	但這是一個不同的討論的主題 。
you see india , you see brazil .	你看到印度 , 你看到巴西 。
you see increasingly that the world now looks actually , for us europeans , much more like europe in the 19th century .	你愈來愈來愈來愈來愈來愈來愈像19世紀的歐洲人
europe in the 19th century: a great british foreign secretary , lord canning , used to describe it as the " european concert of powers . "	在19世紀 , 歐洲:一個偉大的英國外國秘密 , 雷德•加爾 , 曾經描述它是《歐洲的權力協會》 。
there was a balance , a fivesided balance .	有一個平衡 , 一個五個平衡 。
britain always played to the balance .	英國經常扮演平衡 。
if paris got together with berlin , britain got together with vienna and rome to provide a counterbalance .	如果巴黎和柏林合作 , 英國和維納和羅馬一起合作 , 來提供對抗性 。
now notice , in a period which is dominated by a monopolar world , you have fixed alliances nato , the warsaw pact .	注意到 , 在一個月經中 , 由一個獨立世界主導 , 你已經修正了娜拉多 , 戰場的平台 。
a fixed polarity of power means fixed alliances .	一個固定的權力 , 意味著固定聯盟 。
but a multiple polarity of power means shifting and changing alliances .	但有多的力量 , 意味著轉變和改變聯盟 。
and that's the world we're coming into , in which we will increasingly see that our alliances are not fixed .	這就是我們來到的世界 , 我們將會越來越明白我們的盟友不是固定的 。
canning , the great british foreign secretary once said , " britain has a common interest , but no common allies . "	加拿大 , 英國外國秘密曾經說過: 「 英國有共同的利益 , 但沒有共同的盟友 。 」
and we will see increasingly that even we in the west will reach out , have to reach out , beyond the cozy circle of the atlantic powers to make alliances with others if we want to get things done in the world .	我們會越來越看到 , 即使我們在西方 , 要達成 , 遠遠超過大西洋的大西洋電路 , 和其他人合作 , 如果我們想在世界各地做事 。
note , that when we went into libya , it was not good enough for the west to do it alone ; we had to bring others in .	記住 , 當我們進入利比亞時 , 西方不夠好 , 不夠好 。 我們必須把其他人帶進來 。
we had to bring , in this case , the arab league in .	我們必須把阿拉伯聯盟帶進來 。
my guess is iraq and afghanistan are the last times when the west has tried to do it themselves , and we haven't succeeded .	我的猜測是伊拉克和阿富汗 , 當西方試圖自己做 , 我們就沒成功了 。
my guess is that we're reaching the beginning of the end of 400 years i say 400 years because it's the end of the ottoman empire of the hegemony of western power , western institutions and western values .	我的猜測是 , 我們在400年末的開端 , 我說了400年 , 因為它是西方權力的最末端 , 西方機構和西方價值觀 。
you know , up until now , if the west got its act together , it could propose and dispose in every corner of the world .	你知道 , 直到現在 , 如果西方的行動 , 它可以在世界各角落中提取和分離 。
but that's no longer true .	但這不再是真實的 。
take the last financial crisis after the second world war .	以第二次世界大戰後 , 最後的財務危機 。
the west got together the bretton woods institution , world bank , international monetary fund the problem solved .	西方集合了布雷頓森林機構 , 世界銀行、國際網路網路基金解決了問題 。
now we have to call in others .	現在我們必須打電話給其他人 。
now we have to create the g20 .	現在我們必須創造g20 。
now we have to reach beyond the cozy circle of our western friends .	現在我們必須超越西方朋友的同理心圈 。
let me make a prediction for you , which is probably even more startling .	讓我為你做出一個預測 , 這可能更令人難以置信 。
i suspect we are now reaching the end of 400 years when western power was enough .	我懷疑我們現在要達到400年的終點 , 當西方權力足夠 。
people say to me , " the chinese , of course , they'll never get themselves involved in peacemaking , multilateral peacemaking around the world . "	人們對我說: 「 中國 , 當然 , 他們永遠不會自己參與和平、多種和平 , 世界各地的和平 。 」
oh yes ? why not ?	喔 , 是的 ? 為什麼不 ?
how many chinese troops are serving under the blue beret , serving under the blue flag , serving under the u . n . command in the world today ?	有多少中國軍隊在藍色的海底下服務 , 在藍色旗下服務 , 在聯合國的指揮下服務 ?
how many americans ? 11 .	有多少美國人 ? 11 。
what is the largest naval contingent tackling the issue of somali pirates ?	哪些是最大的罪犯 , 針對索馬利海盜的問題呢 ?
the chinese naval contingent .	中國航行的內容 。
of course they are , they are a mercantilist nation .	當然 , 他們是商業主義的國家 。
they want to keep the sea lanes open .	他們想要讓海車開放 。
increasingly , we are going to have to do business with people with whom we do not share values , but with whom , for the moment , we share common interests .	越來越多 , 我們將要和我們不共享價值的人做生意 , 但同時 , 對於當下 , 我們有共同利益 。
it's a whole new different way of looking at the world that is now emerging .	它是一個全新的看待世界的方式 。
and here's the third factor , which is totally different .	這是第三個因素 , 完全不同 。
today in our modern world , because of the internet , because of the kinds of things people have been talking about here , everything is connected to everything .	今天 , 在我們的現代世界 , 因為網路 , 因為人們在談論的事物 , 一切都與所有事物連結在一起 。
we are now interdependent .	我們現在是相互依賴的 。
we are now interlocked , as nations , as individuals , in a way which has never been the case before , never been the case before .	我們現在被關在 , 身為國家 , 身為個體 , 以以前從來沒有發生過的案例 。
the interrelationship of nations , well it's always existed .	國家的國際關係 , 總是存在的 。
diplomacy is about managing the interrelationship of nations .	外交是將國際國際的國際交互關注 。
but now we are intimately locked together .	但現在 , 我們終於被鎖在一起 。
you get swine flu in mexico , it's a problem for charles de gaulle airport 24 hours later .	你在墨西哥開啟了流感 , 它在24小時後就有一個問題 。
lehman brothers goes down , the whole lot collapses .	萊曼兄弟走下去 , 整個崩潰 。
there are fires in the steppes of russia , food riots in africa .	在俄羅斯的步驟中 , 糧食暴行 。
we are all now deeply , deeply , deeply interconnected .	我們現在都深深地 , 深深地連結在一起 。
and what that means is the idea of a nation state acting alone , not connected with others , not working with others , is no longer a viable proposition .	意思是 , 一個國家制度的概念 , 不是與其他人連結 , 而不是與其他人合作 , 不再是一個可見的建議 。
because the actions of a nation state are neither confined to itself , nor is it sufficient for the nation state itself to control its own territory , because the effects outside the nation state are now beginning to affect what happens inside them .	因為一個國家國家的行動也沒有限制自己 , 不論是國家制定自己的地位 , 要控制自己的地位 , 因為國家的效果開始影響到內在的情況 。
i was a young soldier in the last of the small empire wars of britain .	我是英國最後一個小帝國戰爭的年輕士兵 。
at that time , the defense of my country was about one thing and one thing only: how strong was our army , how strong was our air force , how strong was our navy and how strong were our allies .	那時 , 我國家的防禦是一件事 , 只有一件事:我們的軍隊有多強壯 , 我們的空軍有多強壯 , 我們的盟友有多強大 。
that was when the enemy was outside the walls .	那就是敵人在牆外 。
now the enemy is inside the walls .	敵人在牆裡 。
now if i want to talk about the defense of my country , i have to speak to the minister of health because pandemic disease is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of agriculture because food security is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of industry because the fragility of our hitech infrastructure is now a point of attack for our enemies as we see from cyber warfare i have to speak to the minister of home affairs because who has entered my country , who lives in that terraced house in that inner city has a direct effect on what happens in my country as we in london saw in the 7/7 bombings .	現在 , 如果我要談談我的國家防禦 , 我必須和健康部門談談 , 因為流行病對我的安全有威脅 , 我必須和農業總理談談談 , 因為食物安全是對我的安全感 , 我必須和產業的政黨談談 , 因為我們的希臘基礎建設 , 現在是我們在我們的敵人的攻擊 。
it's no longer the case that the security of a country is simply a matter for its soldiers and its ministry of defense .	它不再是國家安全的情況 , 只是對軍隊和其部門的重要性 。
it's its capacity to lock together its institutions .	它是它的能力 , 把其機構鎖在一起 。
and this tells you something very important .	這告訴你們一件非常重要的事 。
it tells you that , in fact , our governments , vertically constructed , constructed on the economic model of the industrial revolution vertical hierarchy , specialization of tasks , command structures have got the wrong structures completely .	它告訴各位 , 事實上 , 我們的政府 , 垂直建構了工業革命的經濟模式 , 建構在工業革命的經濟模式中 , 特殊的任務 , 指揮結構完全有錯誤的結構 。
you in business know that the paradigm structure of our time , ladies and gentlemen , is the network .	你在商業中知道 , 我們時代的範圍結構 , 先生女士們 , 是網路 。
it's your capacity to network that matters , both within your governments and externally .	這是你對網路的能力 , 在你的政府中 , 和外部都有 。
so here is ashdown's third law .	這裡是ashown第三法則 。
by the way , don't ask me about ashdown's first law and second law because i haven't invented those yet ; it always sounds better if there's a third law , doesn't it ?	順便說一提 , 別問我 , 阿什諾的第一法律和第二法律 , 因為我還沒發明這些 ; 如果有第三法律 , 聽起來更好嗎 ?
ashdown's third law is that in the modern age , where everything is connected to everything , the most important thing about what you can do is what you can do with others .	亞格蘭的第三法則是 , 在現代時代 , 每件事都與一切連結 , 最重要的是你能做的事是你能和其他人做的事 。
the most important bit about your structure whether you're a government , whether you're an army regiment , whether you're a business is your docking points , your interconnectors , your capacity to network with others .	最重要的是 , 你的結構不論是政府 , 不論你是軍隊監控 , 不論你是企業 , 你的內部人 , 你的能力和其他人的網路 。
you understand that in industry ; governments don't .	你知道在產業中 , 政府不會 。
but now one final thing .	但 , 最後一件事 。
if it is the case , ladies and gentlemen and it is that we are now locked together in a way that has never been quite the same before , then it's also the case that we share a destiny with each other .	如果是這個案例 , 先生女士們 , 我們現在被鎖在一個以前從來沒有相同的方式 , 那也是我們彼此共享的命運 。
suddenly and for the very first time , collective defense , the thing that has dominated us as the concept of securing our nations , is no longer enough .	突然間 , 一開始 , 集體防禦 , 把我們當作秘密我們的國家的概念 , 不再夠了 。
it used to be the case that if my tribe was more powerful than their tribe , i was safe ; if my country was more powerful than their country , i was safe ; my alliance , like nato , was more powerful than their alliance , i was safe .	以前 , 如果我的部落比他們的部落更強大 , 我很安全 ; 如果我的國家比他們的國家更加強大 ; 我的盟友 , 像是nato , 比他們的盟友更強大 , 我很安全 。
it is no longer the case .	它不再是這樣 。
the advent of the interconnectedness and of the weapons of mass destruction means that , increasingly , i share a destiny with my enemy .	大規模的破壞性和武器的進展 , 意味著 , 越來越多 , 我和敵人分享了一個命運 。
when i was a diplomat negotiating the disarmament treaties with the soviet union in geneva in the 1970s , we succeeded because we understood we shared a destiny with them .	當我還是一個外交官協商 , 和1970年代的蘇聯聯聯聯合在一起 , 我們成功了 , 因為我們知道我們和他們分享了命運 。
collective security is not enough .	集體安全不夠 。
peace has come to northern ireland because both sides realized that the zerosum game couldn't work .	和平來到北愛爾蘭 , 因為兩邊都意識到 , 零和遊戲無法運作 。
they shared a destiny with their enemies .	他們和他們的敵人分享了一個命運 。
one of the great barriers to peace in the middle east is that both sides , both israel and , i think , the palestinians , do not understand that they share a collective destiny .	中東的一個偉大的障礙是 , 以色列和平的兩邊 , 我想 , 巴勒斯坦人 , 不了解他們有共同的命運 。
and so suddenly , ladies and gentlemen , what has been the proposition of visionaries and poets down the ages becomes something we have to take seriously as a matter of public policy .	突然間 , 女士們先生們 , 正是視覺和詩人的建議 , 變成了我們必須認真的公共政策 。
i started with a poem , i'll end with one .	我從一首詩開始 , 最後會結束 。
the great poem of john donne's .	約翰•唐納的偉大詩 。
" send not for whom the bell tolls . "	「 不要為誰發送捐錢 。 」
the poem is called " no man is an island . "	詩叫做 「 沒有人是島嶼 」 。
and it goes: " every man's death affected me , for i am involved in mankind , send not to ask for whom the bell tolls , it tolls for thee . "	順便說: 「 每一位人的死亡都會影響我 , 我都參與了曼金 , 送不去詢問哪個貝殼 , 它會為此消失 。 」
for john donne , a recommendation of morality .	為約翰•唐諾尼 , 一個道德的建議 。
for us , i think , part of the equation for our survival .	對我們來說 , 我想 , 對我們的生存有一部分的方程式 。
to find the path to long life and health , dan buettner and team study the world's " blue zones , " communities whose elders live with vim and vigor to recordsetting age . at tedxtc , he shares the 9 common diet and lifestyle habits that keep them spry past age 100 .	為了找到長壽和健康的路徑 , 丹佛和團隊研究世界的 「 藍區 」 的 「 社區 」 和 「 受害者在tedxc 」 中 , 他分享了9個共同的飲食和生活習慣 , 讓它們傳達到100歲 。
biology , culture , exploration , food , health , life , science	生物學、文化、探索、食物、健康、生命、科學、科學、科學、生物、生物、生物、生物、生物、生物、生物、生物、生物、
dan buettner: how to live to be 100+	丹佛特:如何活到100+ 。
something called the danish twin study established that only about 10 percent of how long the average person lives , within certain biological limits , is dictated by our genes .	一個叫做丹麥雙胞胎的研究顯示 , 只有百分之十的平均人生活的壽命 , 在某些生物限制中 , 被我們的基因分歧 。
the other 90 percent is dictated by our lifestyle .	其他百分之九十的生命形式是被我們所影響的 。
so the premise of blue zones: if we can find the optimal lifestyle of longevity we can come up with a de facto formula for longevity .	所以 , 藍色區的前提:如果我們能找到長期壽的最佳生活方式 , 我們就能提出一個很長壽的公式 。
but if you ask the average american what the optimal formula of longevity is , they probably couldn't tell you .	但如果你問一般的美國人 , 長期的公式是什麼 , 他們可能不會告訴你 。
they've probably heard of the south beach diet , or the atkins diet .	他們可能聽過南海灘飲食 , 或皮膚的飲食 。
you have the usda food pyramid .	你有美國食物金字塔 。
there is what oprah tells us .	歐普拉告訴我們 。
there is what doctor oz tells us .	醫生奧茲告訴我們 。
the fact of the matter is there is a lot of confusion around what really helps us live longer better .	事實是 , 真正的幫助我們活得更久 。
should you be running marathons or doing yoga ?	你應該要跑馬拉松或做yoga ?
should you eat organic meats or should you be eating tofu ?	你應該要吃有機肉 , 或你應該吃湯匙嗎 ?
when it comes to supplements , should you be taking them ?	當它來到供應時 , 你應該把它們拿來嗎 ?
how about these hormones or resveratrol ?	那麼 , 這些荷爾蒙或逆轉器呢 ?
and does purpose play into it ?	純粹的玩樂是嗎 ?
spirituality ? and how about how we socialize ?	精神性 ? 以及我們如何社交呢 ?
well , our approach to finding longevity was to team up with national geographic , and the national institute on aging , to find the four demographically confirmed areas that are geographically defined .	我們找到長期的研究方法 , 就是和國家地理學合作 , 而國家的研究研究 , 尋找四個人口 , 確認地理定義的區域 。
and then bring a team of experts in there to methodically go through exactly what these people do , to distill down the crosscultural distillation .	接著 , 把專家的團隊帶進去 , 以準確地通過這些人所做的事 , 來分解跨越文化歧視 。
and at the end of this i'm going to tell you what that distillation is .	最後 , 我要告訴你們這一點點是什麼 。
but first i'd like to debunk some common myths when it comes to longevity .	但首先 , 我想在長期來看一些常見的迷思 。
and the first myth is if you try really hard you can live to be 100 .	第一個迷思是 , 如果你真的很難活到100歲 。
the problem is , only about one out of 5 , 000 people in america live to be 100 .	問題是 , 美國只有5 , 000人住在一百人 。
your chances are very low .	你的機會很低 。
even though it's the fastest growing demographic in america , it's hard to reach 100 .	儘管它是美國最快速成長的人口數位 , 很難達到100 。
the problem is that we're not programmed for longevity .	問題是 , 我們不是為了長壽的程式 。
we are programmed for something called procreative success .	我們為一個叫做 「 成功成功 」 的程式編碼 。
i love that word .	我喜歡這個詞 。
it reminds me of my college days .	它提醒我大學的日子 。
biologists term procreative success to mean the age where you have children and then another generation , the age when your children have children .	生物學家認為有孩子和其他世代的成功 , 隨著孩子有孩子的年齡 , 孩子有孩子的年齡 。
after that the effect of evolution completely dissipates .	演化的效果完全不適用 。
if you're a mammal , if you're a rat or an elephant , or a human , in between , it's the same story .	如果你是個哺乳類動物 , 如果你是老鼠或大象 , 或人類 , 兩者之間 , 它是相同的 。
so to make it to age 100 , you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle , you also have to have won the genetic lottery .	所以 , 為了讓它成為100歲 , 你不只需要有很好的生命方式 , 你也必須贏得遺傳量 。
the second myth is , there are treatments that can help slow , reverse , or even stop aging .	第二個迷思是 , 能幫助慢、逆轉 , 或甚至停止老化 。
when you think of it , there is 99 things that can age us .	當你想到它時 , 有99個東西可以老化我們 。
deprive your brain of oxygen for just a few minutes , those brain cells die , they never come back .	除掉你的腦袋 , 只需要幾分鐘 , 大腦細胞會死去 , 它們永遠不會回來 。
play tennis too hard , on your knees , ruin your cartilage , the cartilage never comes back .	玩得太難 , 在你的膝蓋上 , 毀了你的車子 , 卡車永遠不會回來 。
our arteries can clog . our brains can gunk up with plaque , and we can get alzheimer's .	我們的動脈可以複製 , 我們的大腦可以用平原來槍枝 , 我們可以得到阿茲海默症 。
there is just too many things to go wrong .	錯了太多事 。
our bodies have 35 trillion cells , trillion with a " t . " we're talking national debt numbers here .	我們的身體有35兆個細胞 , 數兆個 「 t 」 。 我們在這裡談的是國家債務數字 。
those cells turn themselves over once every eight years .	這些細胞每八年都將自己轉過來 。
and every time they turn themselves over there is some damage . and that damage builds up .	每當他們把自己轉到那裡時 , 就會造成損害 。
and it builds up exponentially .	基本上它建構出來的 。
it's a little bit like the days when we all had beatles albums or eagles albums and we'd make a copy of that on a cassette tape , and let our friends copy that cassette tape , and pretty soon , with successive generations that tape sounds like garbage .	有點像現在 , 當我們都有了atatbum或agmsalbums , 我們會複製一份複製 , 讓我們的朋友們複製了 「 催化劑 」 , 很快就有成功的世代 , 像垃圾一樣 。
well , the same things happen to our cells .	嗯 , 同樣的事情發生在我們的細胞身上 。
that's why a 65yearold person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12yearold person .	這就是為什麼一個65歲的老年人在一個比12歲的小孩的比例快125倍 。
so , if there is nothing you can do to slow your aging or stop your aging , what am i doing here ?	所以 , 如果你沒有辦法慢慢你的老化或停止老化 , 我在這裡做些什麼 ?
well , the fact of the matter is the best science tells us that the capacity of the human body , my body , your body , is about 90 years , a little bit more for women .	重點是 , 最好的科學告訴我們 , 人類身體的能力 , 我的身體 , 你的身體 , 大約90年 , 對女性來說 , 比較多 。
but life expectancy in this country is only 78 .	但這個國家的預期壽命只有78 。
so somewhere along the line , we're leaving about 12 good years on the table .	所以 , 在這條線上 , 我們在桌上留了大約12年 。
these are years that we could get .	多年來 , 我們就能得到 。
and research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease , heart disease , cancer and diabetes .	研究顯示 , 他們會多年來會免費慢性疾病、心臟病、癌症、糖尿病 。
we think the best way to get these missing years is to look at the cultures around the world that are actually experiencing them , areas where people are living to age 100 at rates up to 10 times greater than we are , areas where the life expectancy is an extra dozen years , the rate of middle age mortality is a fraction of what it is in this country .	我們認為最好的方法是把這些失望的年齡看世界各地的文化 , 人們活到一百歲到十倍的年齡比我們更大 , 壽命壽命的速度是近十多年 , 中年死亡率是這個國家的一部分 。
we found our first blue zone about 125 miles off the coast of italy , on the island of sardinia .	我們發現我們的第一個藍區大約是125英哩 , 來自義大利海岸 , 在薩丁尼亞島 。
and not the entire island , the island is about 1 . 4 million people , but only up in the highlands , an area called the nuoro province .	而不是整個島嶼 , 島嶼大約有140萬人 , 而是在高地 , 一個叫做nuoro建議的區域 。
and here we have this area where men live the longest , about 10 times more centenarians than we have here in america .	這裡 , 我們有這個區域 , 男人活得最長 , 比我們在美國還多的10倍 。
and this is a place where people not only reach age 100 , they do so with extraordinary vigor .	這個地方 , 人們不只接觸到一百歲 , 他們就這樣做 。
places where 102 year olds still ride their bike to work , chop wood , and can beat a guy 60 years younger than them .	在那裡 , 十二歲的居住地仍然騎腳踏車去工作 , 喝木頭 , 可能比他們更年輕60歲 。
their history actually goes back to about the time of christ .	他們的歷史其實是回到基督徒的時代 。
it's actually a bronze age culture that's been isolated .	實際上是一片布朗的文化被隔離了 。
because the land is so infertile , they largely are shepherds , which occasions regular , lowintensity physical activity .	因為這塊土地非常不穩定 , 大部份都是牧羊 , 一般的生態活動 。
their diet is mostly plantbased , accentuated with foods that they can carry into the fields .	他們的飲食大部分是以植物為基礎的 , 用他們能帶到田地上 。
they came up with an unleavened whole wheat bread called carta musica made out of durum wheat , a type of cheese made from grassfed animals so the cheese is high in omega3 fatty acids instead of omega6 fatty acids from cornfed animals , and a type of wine that has three times the level of polyphenols than any known wine in the world .	他們想出了一大堆無線電的麵包 , 叫做卡塔音樂 , 由荷蘭的動物組成 , 一類的起士 , 如此一來 , 蜜蜂的酸度高 , 而不是從玉米脂的動物身上 , 還有一種種類型的葡萄糖 , 比世界上任何所謂的酒精還要高 。
but the real secret i think lies more in the way that they organize their society .	但真正的秘密我認為 , 他們更能組織他們的社會 。
and one of the most salient elements of the sardinian society is how they treat older people .	薩丁尼亞社會中最可觀的元素之一是他們如何治療老年人 。
you ever notice here in america , social equity seems to peak at about age 24 ?	你曾經注意到在美國 , 社會平等似乎在24歲時暫停 。
just look at the advertisements .	看看廣告 。
here in sardinia , the older you get the more equity you have , the more wisdom you're celebrated for .	在薩丁尼亞 , 老年人就會得到你有的平等 , 你的智慧越多 。
you go into the bars in sardinia , instead of seeing the sports illustrated swimsuit calendar , you see the centenarian of the month calendar .	你去了薩丁尼亞州的酒吧 , 而不是去看運動節目的瑞典日曆 , 你會看到一個月經的中央人 。
this , as it turns out , is not only good for your aging parents to keep them close to the family it imparts about four to six years of extra life expectancy research shows it's also good for the children of those families , who have lower rates of mortality and lower rates of disease .	結果發現 , 不只對你老年老的父母要把他們關在家裡 , 大約有四到六年的壽命研究顯示 , 對那些家庭的孩子來說 , 他們有較低的死亡率和較低的疾病率較低 。
that's called the grandmother effect .	這叫做祖母效應 。
we found our second blue zone on the other side of the planet , about 800 miles south of tokyo , on the archipelago of okinawa .	我們在地球的另一邊找到了第二個藍色區 , 大約800英里的東南部 , 在奈及利亞南部 。
okinawa is actually 161 small islands .	okowa其實是161個小島 。
and in the northern part of the main island , this is ground zero for world longevity .	在主要島的北部 , 這是世界長壽的基礎 。
this is a place where the oldest living female population is found .	這個地方是最古老的女性族群被發現的 。
it's a place where people have the longest disabilityfree life expectancy in the world .	這個地方 , 人們擁有世界上最長的殘疾壽命 。
they have what we want .	他們有我們想要的 。
they live a long time , and tend to die in their sleep , very quickly , and often , i can tell you , after sex .	他們活了很長一段時間 , 很快就死在他們的睡眠中 , 通常 , 我可以告訴你 , 在性行為之後 。
they live about seven good years longer than the average american .	他們活得比美國平均的平均壽命還要長七年 。
five times as many centenarians as we have in america .	美國有五倍之多 。
one fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer , big killers here in america .	十五歲的殖民和乳癌的速度 , 在美國大殺手 。
and one sixth the rate of cardiovascular disease .	心血管疾病的第六度 。
and the fact that this culture has yielded these numbers suggests strongly they have something to teach us .	事實上 , 這種文化已經證明了這些數字 , 他們有強烈的教導我們 。
what do they do ?	他們怎麼辦 ?
once again , a plantbased diet , full of vegetables with lots of color in them .	再一次 , 植物的飲食 , 充滿了蔬菜 , 裡面有許多顏色 。
and they eat about eight times as much tofu as americans do .	他們吃了大約八倍的湯瑪 。
more significant than what they eat is how they eat it .	比他們吃的食物更重要 , 就是他們如何吃它 。
they have all kinds of little strategies to keep from overeating , which , as you know , is a big problem here in america .	他們有各式各樣的小策略 , 可以保持過度 , 如你所知 , 在美國是個大問題 。
a few of the strategies we observed: they eat off of smaller plates , so they tend to eat fewer calories at every sitting .	我們觀察到的一些策略:他們從小盤子中吃掉 , 所以他們通常會在每一塊地吃少的卡路里 。
instead of serving family style , where you can sort of mindlessly eat as you're talking , they serve at the counter , put the food away , and then bring it to the table .	與其是服務家人風格 , 你可以無意地吃東西 , 當你在說話時 , 他們會在櫃子裡吃食物 , 然後把食物帶到桌子上 。
they also have a 3 , 000yearold adage , which i think is the greatest sort of diet suggestion ever invented .	他們也有三千歲的廣告 , 我認為這是最偉大的飲食建議 。
it was invented by confucius .	它是由混亂所發明的 。
and that diet is known as the hara , hatchi , bu diet .	這種飲食是撒哈拉 , 帽子 , 吃飯 。
it's simply a little saying these people say before their meal to remind them to stop eating when their stomach is [80] percent full .	簡單來說 , 這些人會說 , 在他們的餐之前 , 要提醒他們 , 當他們胃痛時 , 不再吃百分之八十 。
it takes about a half hour for that full feeling to travel from your belly to your brain .	它需要一半小時的感覺 , 才能從你的貝兒到你的大腦 。
and by remembering to stop at 80 percent it helps keep you from doing that very thing .	記住要阻止80%的情況 , 它幫助你保持那件事情 。
but , like sardinia , okinawa has a few social constructs that we can associate with longevity .	但 , 就像薩丁尼亞一樣 , okowa有幾個社會建設 , 我們能和長壽聯繫在一起 。
we know that isolation kills .	我們知道 , 孤立殺死了 。
fifteen years ago , the average american had three good friends .	十五年前 , 美國平均有三位好朋友 。
we're down to one and half right now .	我們現在下降到一半 。
if you were lucky enough to be born in okinawa , you were born into a system where you automatically have a half a dozen friends with whom you travel through life .	如果你很幸運地出生在okinawa , 你出生在一個系統中 , 你自動有一半的朋友 , 和你經歷過生命的人 。
they call it a moai . and if you're in a moai you're expected to share the bounty if you encounter luck , and if things go bad , child gets sick , parent dies , you always have somebody who has your back .	他們稱之為 「 馬拉i 」 , 如果你遇到幸運的話 , 你就想分享這個責任 , 如果你遇到壞事 , 孩子會生病 , 你總是有你背後的人 。
this particular moai , these five ladies have been together for 97 years .	這種特殊的摩亞 , 這五位女士已經結合了97年 。
their average age is 102 .	他們的平均年齡是102歲 。
typically in america we've divided our adult life up into two sections .	通常 , 在美國 , 我們將成人的人生分成兩個部分 。
there is our work life , where we're productive .	我們有工作的生命 , 我們有生產力 。
and then one day , boom , we retire .	有一天 , 我們退休了 。
and typically that has meant retiring to the easy chair , or going down to arizona to play golf .	一般來說 , 這意味著退休到簡單的椅子 , 或往亞利桑那州去玩高爾夫 。
in the okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement .	在奈及利亞語言中 , 甚至沒有退休的詞 。
instead there is one word that imbues your entire life , and that word is " ikigai . "	相反地 , 有一個字會讓你整生的生命 , 這個字是 「 伊基加西 」 。
and , roughly translated , it means " the reason for which you wake up in the morning . "	大約是翻譯 , 意思是 「 你早上醒來的理由 」 。
for this 102yearold karate master , his ikigai was carrying forth this martial art .	在這個十二歲的凱特•馬斯特 , 他的ikigai正帶著這個火星藝術 。
for this hundredyearold fisherman it was continuing to catch fish for his family three times a week .	對於這一百歲的漁夫來說 , 它持續捕魚 , 每週三次捕魚 。
and this is a question . the national institute on aging actually gave us a questionnaire to give these centenarians .	這是個問題 , 國家老化的機構 , 給了我們一個問題 , 給予這些中央人 。
and one of the questions , they were very culturally astute , the people who put the questionnaire .	其中一個問題 , 他們是非常文化的直覺 , 那些提出問題的人 。
one of the questions was , " what is your ikigai ? "	其中一個問題是: 「 你的ikigai是什麼 ? 」
they instantly knew why they woke up in the morning .	他們馬上知道為什麼他們早上醒來 。
for this 102 year old woman , her ikigai was simply her greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	在這102歲的老婦女 , 她的ikigai只是她的曾曾曾曾曾祖父 。
two girls separated in age by 101 and a half years .	兩位女孩在101年分離 。
and i asked her what it felt like to hold a greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	我問她 , 我問她 , 要抱著一個偉大的學位 。
and she put her head back and she said , " it feels like leaping into heaven . "	她把她的頭放回來 , 她說: 「 感覺就像跳躍到天堂 。 」
i thought that was a wonderful thought .	我以為那是個很棒的思想 。
my editor at geographic wanted me to find america's blue zone .	我在地理學的編輯希望我能找到美國的藍色區塊 。
and for a while we looked on the prairies of minnesota , where actually there is a very high proportion of centenarians .	一陣子 , 我們看著明尼蘇達的禱告 , 實際上 , 有一個非常高的中亞人 。
but that's because all the young people left .	但這是因為所有年輕人離開了 。
so , we turned to the data again .	所以 , 我們再次轉向數據 。
and we found america's longestlived population among the seventhday adventists concentrated in and around loma linda , california .	我們發現美國最長壽的人口 , 在七天的冒險家集中 , 加州的羅馬林德達州 。
adventists are conservative methodists .	專家是保守的金屬師 。
they celebrate their sabbath from sunset on friday till sunset on saturday .	他們慶祝他們在星期五的星期五的日日日日日日日日日慶祝他們的日子 。
a " 24hour sanctuary in time , " they call it .	一個《24小時聖誕節》 , 他們稱之為 「 。 」
and they follow five little habits that conveys to them extraordinary longevity , comparatively speaking .	他們遵循五個小習慣 , 傳達給他們不尋常的長壽 , 相較於說話 。
in america here , life expectancy for the average woman is 80 .	在美國 , 平均女性平均壽命是80歲 。
but for an adventist woman , their life expectancy is 89 .	但對於一位先進主義的女人 , 他們的壽命是89歲 。
and the difference is even more pronounced among men , who are expected to live about 11 years longer than their american counterparts .	差別在男性中 , 甚至更為宣佈 , 他們預期要活大約十一年 , 比美國的郡還要長11年 。
now , this is a study that followed about 70 , 000 people for 30 years .	現在 , 這是一項研究 , 追蹤了大約有七萬人的研究 。
sterling study . and i think it supremely illustrates the premise of this blue zone project .	史蒂夫研究 , 我認為它最終可以說明這個藍色區域的前景 。
this is a heterogeneous community .	這是個很大的社區 。
it's white , black , hispanic , asian .	它是白色、黑人、猶太人、亞洲人 。
the only thing that they have in common are a set of very small lifestyle habits that they follow ritualistically for most of their lives .	他們唯一的共同點是一組非常小的生命型態 , 牠們對大部分的生命都很小的習慣 。
they take their diet directly from the bible .	他們直接從聖經中取飲食 。
genesis: chapter one , verse [29] , where god talks about legumes and seeds , and on one more stanza about green plants , ostensibly missing is meat .	慷慨: 「 章魚 」 、 「 第29 」 』 , 上帝談到樂高和種子 , 關於綠色植物 , 可能錯過的就是肉 。
they take this sanctuary in time very serious .	他們在非常嚴肅的情況下採用這個聖誕節 。
for 24 hours every week , no matter how busy they are , how stressed out they are at work , where the kids need to be driven , they stop everything and they focus on their god , their social network , and then , hardwired right in the religion , are nature walks .	每週24小時 , 不論他們有多忙 , 他們有多壓力 , 孩子們需要開車 , 他們停止一切 , 關注上帝、社交網路 , 接著 , 在宗教中 , 都是大自然行走 。
and the power of this is not that it's done occasionally , the power is it's done every week for a lifetime .	這種權力不是偶爾發生的 , 權力是每週 , 每週都在做 。
none of it's hard . none of it costs money .	沒有它很困難 , 沒有錢 。
adventists also tend to hang out with other adventists .	進步主義者也傾向於與其他偉大主義者聚在一起 。
so , if you go to an adventist's party you don't see people swilling jim beam or rolling a joint .	所以 , 如果你去參加一位先進主義派對 , 你看不見人們在打擊吉姆•貝姆 , 或推動一個關節 。
instead they're talking about their next nature walk , exchanging recipes , and yes , they pray .	相反地 , 他們在談論他們的下一大自然走路 , 擴張相反 , 是的 , 他們祈禱 。
but they influence each other in profound and measurable ways .	但它們會影響彼此 , 以深刻且可測量的方式影響彼此 。
this is a culture that has yielded ellsworth whareham .	這是一種文化 , 有著威廉的伊斯蘭•哈雷姆 。
ellsworth whareham is 97 years old .	wharehareham97歲 。
he's a multimillionaire , yet when a contractor wanted 6 , 000 dollars to build a privacy fence , he said , " for that kind of money i'll do it myself . "	他是數百萬美金 , 但當一個競爭者想要6 , 000美金來建立隱私的本質 , 他說: 「 為了我自己做這件事 。 」
so for the next three days he was out shoveling cement , and hauling poles around .	所以 , 接下來三天他出去買水泥 , 並且在周圍騷擾游泳 。
and predictably , perhaps , on the fourth day he ended up in the operating room .	可預測的 , 也許在第四天 , 他終於在手術室裡 。
but not as the guy on the table ; the guy doing openheart surgery .	但不是在桌上的人 ; 那個人在做開放的手術 。
at 97 he still does 20 openheart surgeries every month .	在97年 , 他每個月仍然在做20個開放手術 。
ed rawlings , 103 years old now , an active cowboy , starts his morning with a swim .	愛德華 , 103歲 , 一個活躍的牛仔 , 早上就開始游泳 。
and on weekends he likes to put on the boards , throw up rooster tails .	週末 , 他喜歡放上板子 , 丟下roosososter的尾巴 。
her grandson actually lives in the twin cities here .	她的孫子其實住在這兩座城市裡 。
she starts her day with lifting weights .	她從她的日子開始 , 讓她的重量很高 。
she rides her bicycle .	她騎腳踏車 。
and then she gets in her rootbeer colored 1994 cadillac seville , and tears down the san bernardino freeway , where she still volunteers for seven different organizations .	然後她在她的根廷有色彩1994年的科迪爾維爾維爾 , 把聖貝納納米羅的自由公路撕下來 , 她仍然有七個不同的組織 。
i've been on 19 hardcore expeditions .	我已經在19個硬幣前進 。
i'm probably the only person you'll ever meet who rode his bicycle across the sahara desert without sunscreen .	我可能是你遇過的唯一一個人 , 他的腳踏車在撒哈拉沙漠的沙漠中 。
but i'll tell you , there is no adventure more harrowing than riding shotgun with marge deton .	但我要告訴各位 , 沒有冒險比起火星的撞擊 , 更加駭人 。
" a stranger is a friend i haven't met yet ! " she'd say to me .	「 陌生人是我還沒見過的朋友 。 」 她對我說: 「 一個陌生人 ,
so , what are the common denominators in these three cultures ?	所以 , 在這個三種文化中 , 常見的決定者是什麼 ?
what are the things that they all do ?	他們所做的是什麼 ?
and we managed to boil it down to nine .	我們成功地把它放到九個 。
in fact we've done two more blue zone expeditions since this and these common denominators hold true .	事實上 , 我們從此開始進行了兩項藍色區塊 , 而這些共同的決策者確保了事實 。
and the first one , and i'm about to utter a heresy here , none of them exercise , at least the way we think of exercise .	首先 , 我將要在這裡做個實驗 , 沒有運動 , 至少我們認為運動的方式 。
instead , they set up their lives so that they are constantly nudged into physical activity .	相反地 , 他們建立了他們的生命 , 讓他們不斷被困在實體活動中 。
these 100yearold okinawan women are getting up and down off the ground , they sit on the floor , 30 or 40 times a day .	這一百歲的奈瓦婦女在地面上升下 , 他們坐在地板上 , 每天30到40次 。
sardinians live in vertical houses , up and down the stairs .	薩丁尼亞人住在垂直的房子裡 , 下樓梯 。
every trip to the store , or to church or to a friend's house occasions a walk .	每次旅行到商店 , 或教堂或朋友的房子會發生一個行走 。
they don't have any conveniences .	他們沒有任何良心 。
there is not a button to push to do yard work or house work .	沒有一個按鈕 , 去做yard工作或房子工作 。
if they want to mix up a cake , they're doing it by hand .	如果他們想把蛋糕混合起來 , 它們會用手做 。
that burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does .	這樣燃燒的卡路里和跑步機一樣多 。
when they do do intentional physical activity , it's the things they enjoy . they tend to walk , the only proven way to stave off cognitive decline , and they all tend to have a garden .	當他們做意外的實體活動時 , 是他們享受的事物 。 他們傾向走路 , 唯一能證明認知衰退的方式 , 他們都傾向有花園 。
they know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook .	他們知道如何用正確的方式建立他們的生活 , 讓他們有正確的外表 。
each of these cultures take time to downshift .	每個文化都需要時間轉變 。
the sardinians pray . the seventhday adventists pray .	薩丁裔人禱告 , 第七天的演員禱告 。
the okinawans have this ancestor veneration .	okinawan有這個祖先的角落 。
but when you're in a hurry or stressed out , that triggers something called the inflammatory response , which is associated with everything from alzheimer's disease to cardiovascular disease .	但當你陷入傷害或壓力後 , 會引發一種稱為 「 內流素反應 」 的現象 , 和阿茲海默症的所有東西有關 。
when you slow down for 15 minutes a day you turn that inflammatory state into a more antiinflammatory state .	每一天你慢下來15分鐘 , 你就會轉變成一種更反射的反射性狀態 。
they have vocabulary for sense of purpose , ikigai , like the okinawans .	他們有義大利的目的感 , 愛基加西 , 例如奇蹟 。
you know the two most dangerous years in your life are the year you're born , because of infant mortality , and the year you retire .	你生命中最危險的兩年是你出生的一年 , 因為嬰兒死亡率 , 而你退休的一年 。
these people know their sense of purpose , and they activate in their life , that's worth about seven years of extra life expectancy .	這些人知道他們的目的 , 他們在他們的人生中活著 , 值得有七年的壽命 。
there's no longevity diet .	沒有長壽的飲食 。
instead , these people drink a little bit every day , not a hard sell to the american population .	相反地 , 這些人每天都喝了一點 , 不太難賣給美國人 。
they tend to eat a plantbased diet .	他們通常會吃植物的飲食 。
doesn't mean they don't eat meat , but lots of beans and nuts .	不代表他們不吃肉 , 但很多豆子和子孫 。
and they have strategies to keep from overeating , little things that nudge them away from the table at the right time .	牠們有策略 , 持續過度 , 把它們從平板上消失 。
and then the foundation of all this is how they connect .	而這一切的基礎是他們如何連結的 。
they put their families first , take care of their children and their aging parents .	他們首先把他們的家人 , 照顧他們的孩子和他們的父母 。
they all tend to belong to a faithbased community , which is worth between four and 14 extra years of life expectancy if you do it four times a month .	他們都傾向於屬於信仰基礎的社群 , 這值得四到十四、14年的壽命 , 如果你每個月做這四次 。
and the biggest thing here is they also belong to the right tribe .	最重要的是 , 他們也屬於對的部落 。
they were either born into or they proactively surrounded themselves with the right people .	他們是否會出生 , 或對人有自動地圍繞著自己和右派人 。
we know from the framingham studies , that if your three best friends are obese there is a 50 percent better chance that you'll be overweight .	我們從脆弱的研究中知道 , 如果你的三位最好的朋友是肥胖的50% , 你將會有過重的機會 。
so , if you hang out with unhealthy people , that's going to have a measurable impact over time .	所以 , 如果你和不健康的人在一起 , 那會對時間的影響很大 。
instead , if your friend's idea of recreation is physical activity , bowling , or playing hockey , biking or gardening , if your friends drink a little , but not too much , and they eat right , and they're engaged , and they're trusting and trustworthy , that is going to have the biggest impact over time .	相反地 , 如果你的朋友的回收概念是實體的活動 , 繁榮 , 或玩香菸 , 或花園 , 如果你的朋友喝了一點 , 但他們吃得太好了 , 他們會信任和信任 , 這將會對時間有最大影響 。
diets don't work . no diet in the history of the world has ever worked for more than two percent of the population .	飲食不會成功 。 世界上的歷史上沒有飲食 , 超過百分之二的人口 。
exercise programs usually start in january ; they're usually done by october .	練習計畫通常從一月開始 , 他們通常是十月完成的 。
when it comes to longevity there is no short term fix in a pill or anything else .	長期來看 , 沒有短暫的修復 , 或其他東西 。
but when you think about it , your friends are longterm adventures , and therefore , perhaps the most significant thing you can do to add more years to your life , and life to your years . thank you very much .	但當你想到 , 你的朋友是長期冒險 , 因此 , 可能是你能做最重要的事 , 多年來 , 多年來 , 非常謝謝你 。
ink that conducts electricity ; a window that turns from clear to opaque at the flip of a switch ; a jelly that makes music . all this stuff exists , and catarina mota says: it's time to play with it . mota leads us on a tour of surprising and cool new materials , and suggests that the way we'll figure out what they're good for is to experiment , tinker and have fun .	墨西哥的電力 , 一扇窗戶從明確的轉換到一個開關的角度 ; 一個充滿音樂的水母 , 所有這些東西都存在 , 卡里娜•莫塔說:該是玩它的時候了 。 摩塔會引領我們驚訝和酷的材料 , 並且說 , 我們會想知道我們能做些什麼 , 去做實驗 , 更有趣和有趣 。
creativity , design , technology	創造力、設計、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技 。
catarina mota: play with smart materials	catarinamota:玩聰明的材料 。
i have a friend in portugal whose grandfather built a vehicle out of a bicycle and a washing machine so he could transport his family .	我有一位在葡萄牙的朋友 , 他的祖父建造了一台車 , 一台洗衣機 , 讓他能運送他的家人 。
he did it because he couldn't afford a car , but also because he knew how to build one .	他這麼做是因為他不能負擔一輛車 , 也因為他知道如何建造一個 。
there was a time when we understood how things worked and how they were made , so we could build and repair them , or at the very least make informed decisions about what to buy .	有一段時間 , 當我們了解事情如何運作 , 如何做 , 這樣我們就能建立並修復它們 , 或最少的決定要購買什麼 。
many of these doityourself practices were lost in the second half of the 20th century .	在20世紀的第二半期 , 許多的醫生都失敗了 。
but now , the maker community and the opensource model are bringing this kind of knowledge about how things work and what they're made of back into our lives , and i believe we need to take them to the next level , to the components things are made of .	但現在 , 製造者和公開資源模型將這種知識帶到我們的生活中 , 並且我相信我們需要把它們帶到下一個層面 , 以組成的東西組成 。
for the most part , we still know what traditional materials like paper and textiles are made of and how they are produced .	最重要的部分 , 我們仍然知道傳統的材料 , 像是紙和紡織物 , 以及它們如何產生的 。
but now we have these amazing , futuristic composites plastics that change shape , paints that conduct electricity , pigments that change color , fabrics that light up .	但現在我們有這些驚人的、自閉的塑膠 , 會改變形狀 , 繪製電力 , 那些改變顏色的顏色 , 發出的顏色 。
let me show you some examples .	讓我給你們看一些例子 。
so conductive ink allows us to paint circuits instead of using the traditional printed circuit boards or wires .	所以 , 受教育的墨水允許我們繪製電路 , 而不是用傳統的列印電路板或電路 。
in the case of this little example i'm holding , we used it to create a touch sensor that reacts to my skin by turning on this little light .	在我握住的例子中 , 我們用它來創造一種觸覺感測器 , 透過把我的皮膚轉換成這個小燈 。
conductive ink has been used by artists , but recent developments indicate that we will soon be able to use it in laser printers and pens .	受教育的墨水被藝術家所使用 , 但最近的發展指出我們很快就能在雷射印刷機和筆記上使用它 。
and this is a sheet of acrylic infused with colorless lightdiffusing particles .	這是一片加密的綿羊 , 充滿了無色的光能粒子 。
what this means is that , while regular acrylic only diffuses light around the edges , this one illuminates across the entire surface when i turn on the lights around it .	意思是 , 一般的加密單單單只會在邊緣的光線 , 這張圖顯示在整個表面上 , 當我把光線轉向周圍 。
two of the known applications for this material include interior design and multitouch systems .	其中有兩個已知的應用 , 包括內部設計和多種觸控系統 。
and thermochromic pigments change color at a given temperature .	溫度的顏色會改變顏色 。
so i'm going to place this on a hot plate that is set to a temperature only slightly higher than ambient and you can see what happens .	所以 , 我要把這個放在一個熱的盤子上 , 只能讓溫度比雄性更高 , 看看會發生什麼事 。
so one of the principle applications for this material is , amongst other things , in baby bottles , so it indicates when the contents are cool enough to drink .	所以 , 其中一個原則的應用是 , 在其他東西中 , 嬰兒瓶裡 , 會指出內容是很酷的飲用品 。
so these are just a few of what are commonly known as smart materials .	這些只是少數人所知的智慧材料 。
in a few years , they will be in many of the objects and technologies we use on a daily basis .	幾年來 , 他們會在許多我們每天使用的物品和技術上 。
we may not yet have the flying cars science fiction promised us , but we can have walls that change color depending on temperature , keyboards that roll up , and windows that become opaque at the flick of a switch .	我們還可能還沒有飛行車科幻小說 , 但是我們能有牆壁 , 改變顏色的溫度 , 按鍵板 , 讓它變得相反 。
so i'm a social scientist by training , so why am i here today talking about smart materials ?	所以 , 我是社會科學家 , 為何我今天要談到智慧材料 ?
well first of all , because i am a maker .	首先 , 因為我是製造家 。
i'm curious about how things work and how they are made , but also because i believe we should have a deeper understanding of the components that make up our world , and right now , we don't know enough about these hightech composites our future will be made of .	我很好奇的是 , 事情如何運作 , 和它們是怎麼做的 , 但我相信我們應該更了解我們的世界的元素 , 而現在 , 我們對於這些高科技的組成並不足以組成 。
smart materials are hard to obtain in small quantities .	智慧材料很難在小的量子中取得 。
there's barely any information available on how to use them , and very little is said about how they are produced .	幾乎沒有任何資訊可以用到如何使用它們 , 很少是說他們是如何產生的 。
so for now , they exist mostly in this realm of trade secrets and patents only universities and corporations have access to .	所以現在 , 他們大部分都存在在貿易秘密和專利的領域中 , 只有大學和企業都能取得 。
so a little over three years ago , kirsty boyle and i started a project we called open materials .	三年前 , 三年前 , 三十年前 , 我開始了一個計畫 , 我們稱之為 「 開放材料 」 。
it's a website where we , and anyone else who wants to join us , share experiments , publish information , encourage others to contribute whenever they can , and aggregate resources such as research papers and tutorials by other makers like ourselves .	它是我們的網站 , 任何想加入我們、分享實驗、發表資訊 , 鼓勵別人 , 每當他們能做 , 加入資源 , 像是像我們這樣的製造者一樣 。
we would like it to become a large , collectively generated database of doityourself information on smart materials .	我們希望它成為一個大型、集體的資料庫 , 可以在智慧材料上產生資料庫 。
but why should we care how smart materials work and what they are made of ?	但 , 為什麼我們要關心有多聰明的材料 , 以及它們所做的是什麼 ?
first of all , because we can't shape what we don't understand , and what we don't understand and use ends up shaping us .	首先 , 因為我們不能塑造我們不了解的事物 , 而我們不明白和用它來塑造我們 。
the objects we use , the clothes we wear , the houses we live in , all have a profound impact on our behavior , health and quality of life .	我們使用的物品 , 穿著衣服、我們所居住的房子 , 都對我們的行為、健康和品質有深遠的影響 。
so if we are to live in a world made of smart materials , we should know and understand them .	所以如果我們活在一個聰明的材料中 , 我們應該知道和了解它們 。
secondly , and just as important , innovation has always been fueled by tinkerers .	第二 , 同樣重要的 , 創新一直都被固定者所燃燒 。
so many times , amateurs , not experts , have been the inventors and improvers of things ranging from mountain bikes to semiconductors , personal computers , airplanes .	很多時候 , 護士 , 不是專家 , 曾經是發明家 , 改善在山上自行車 , 到半行車、個人電腦、飛機 。
the biggest challenge is that material science is complex and requires expensive equipment .	最大的挑戰是 , 物質科學是複雜且需要昂貴的設備 。
but that's not always the case .	但這並不總是如此 。
two scientists at university of illinois understood this when they published a paper on a simpler method for making conductive ink .	在伊利諾大學 , 兩個科學家明白了這點 , 當他們在一個簡單的方法上發表了一篇文章 , 來製造生產力的墨水 。
jordan bunker , who had had no experience with chemistry until then , read this paper and reproduced the experiment at his maker space using only offtheshelf substances and tools .	約旦布朗•布克 , 他沒有經歷過化學物質 , 直到那時 , 讀了這篇論文 , 並在他的製造者太空中複製了實驗 , 只用無限的物質和工具 。
he used a toaster oven , and he even made his own vortex mixer , based on a tutorial by another scientist/maker .	他用了一顆大烤箱 , 他甚至做了他自己的旅館混合物 , 根據另一位科學家/maker的直覺 。
jordan then published his results online , including all the things he had tried and didn't work , so others could study and reproduce it .	約旦後來在網路上發表了他的結果 , 包括他嘗試的所有事情 , 沒有工作 , 所以其他人可以研究並複製它 。
so jordan's main form of innovation was to take an experiment created in a wellequipped lab at the university and recreate it in a garage in chicago using only cheap materials and tools he made himself .	約旦的主要創新是採取一個實驗 , 在大學的一個好的實驗室 , 並在芝加哥的車庫裡重建它 , 只用便宜的材料和工具 。
and now that he published this work , others can pick up where he left and devise even simpler processes and improvements .	現在 , 他發表了這個作品 , 其他人可以拿起他剩下的和破壞的過程 , 更簡單的改善 。
another example i'd like to mention her project's goal is to highlight the expressive qualities of materials while focusing on the creativity and skills of the builder .	另外一個例子 , 我想要提到她的專案目標是要強調材料的表現品質 , 同時專注於建造者的創意和技能 。
electronics kits are very powerful in that they teach us how things work , but the constraints inherent in their design influence the way we learn .	電子設備非常強大 , 他們教導我們如何運作 , 但在他們的設計中限制影響了我們學習的方式 。
so hannah's approach , on the other hand , is to formulate a series of techniques for creating unusual objects that free us from predesigned constraints by teaching us about the materials themselves .	另一方面 , hannah的方法是要建立一系列的技術 , 來創造出不尋常的物體 , 讓我們從預防的限制 , 來教導我們材料本身 。
so amongst hannah's many impressive experiments , this is one of my favorites .	所以 , 在漢娜有很多令人印象的實驗中 , 這是我最喜歡的一個 。
[ " paper speakers " ] what we're seeing here is just a piece of paper with some copper tape on it connected to an mp3 player and a magnet .	「 紙子講者 」 , 我們現在看到的只是一張紙 , 上面有一些銅紙 , 連接到一個mp3的玩家和磁鐵 。
so based on the research by marcelo coelho from mit , hannah created a series of paper speakers out of a wide range of materials from simple copper tape to conductive fabric and ink .	根據麻省理工學院的mcelocoho的研究 , 漢娜創造了一系列的紙人 , 從簡單的銅板上 , 變成發電製造和墨水 。
just like jordan and so many other makers , hannah published her recipes and allows anyone to copy and reproduce them .	就像約旦和許多其他製造者一樣 , 漢娜發表了她的協議 , 允許任何人複製並複製它們 。
but paper electronics is one of the most promising branches of material science in that it allows us to create cheaper and flexible electronics .	但紙電子是材料科學中最可預期的一部分之一 , 它使我們能創造出便宜的電子電子 。
so hannah's artisanal work , and the fact that she shared her findings , opens the doors to a series of new possibilities that are both aesthetically appealing and innovative .	所以漢娜的動脈工作 , 她分享她的發現 , 打開了一系列的新可能性 , 讓這一系列的新可能性 。
so the interesting thing about makers is that we create out of passion and curiosity , and we are not afraid to fail .	創作者有趣的是 , 我們創造出了熱情和好奇心 , 我們不害怕失敗 。
we often tackle problems from unconventional angles , and , in the process , end up discovering alternatives or even better ways to do things .	我們常常從不傳統的角度來解決問題 , 在過程中 , 最後發現替代方案或更好的方式來做事情 。
so the more people experiment with materials , the more researchers are willing to share their research , and manufacturers their knowledge , the better chances we have to create technologies that truly serve us all .	所以越多人的實驗 , 更多的研究人員願意分享他們的研究 , 製造商們的知識 , 我們得要創造更好的機制 , 真正能服務我們所有人 。
so i feel a bit as ted nelson must have when , in the early 1970s , he wrote , " you must understand computers now . "	所以 , 我覺得tednelson是1970年代初期 , 他寫道: 「 你一定要了解電腦 。 」
back then , computers were these large mainframes only scientists cared about , and no one dreamed of even having one at home .	那時 , 電腦是那些大型主要的科學家 , 只關心科學家 , 甚至沒有人夢想在家裡 。
so it's a little strange that i'm standing here and saying , " you must understand smart materials now . "	所以這有點奇怪 , 我站在這裡 , 說: 「 你一定要了解智慧材料 。 」
just keep in mind that acquiring preemptive knowledge about emerging technologies is the best way to ensure that we have a say in the making of our future .	請記住 , 關於新興科技的先進知識是確保我們未來所說的最佳方法 。
when we drive , we get into a glass bubble , lock the doors and press the accelerator , relying on our eyes to guide us even though we can only see the few cars ahead of and behind us . but what if cars could share data with each other about their position and velocity , and use predictive models to calculate the safest routes for everyone on the road ? jennifer healey imagines a world without accidents .	當我們開車時 , 我們進入了玻璃泡泡 , 鎖住門 , 壓迫我們 , 仰賴我們的眼睛 , 儘管我們只能在我們面前看到幾輛車 , 但如果車能與彼此分享他們的位置和動力 , 用預測模式來計算所有人的安全路線 ?
jennifer healey: if cars could talk , accidents might be avoidable	珍妮佛•亨利:如果汽車可以說話 , 意外意外可能會避免能避免能避免能避免有耐心的意外 。
let's face it: driving is dangerous .	咱們來面對這個問題:開車是危險的 。
it's one of the things that we don't like to think about , but the fact that religious icons and good luck charms show up on dashboards around the world betrays the fact that we know this to be true .	這是我們不想思考的一件事 , 但事實上 , 宗教的意圖和好運的查爾斯出現在世界各地的達爾蘭板上 , 我們知道它是真實的 。
car accidents are the leading cause of death in people ages 16 to 19 in the united states leading cause of death and 75 percent of these accidents have nothing to do with drugs or alcohol .	車禍是美國年齡十六歲到十九歲的死亡原因 , 導致死亡和75%的意外對抗毒品或酒精 。
no one can say for sure , but i remember my first accident .	沒有人可以確定 , 但我記得我第一個意外 。
i was a young driver out on the highway , and the car in front of me , i saw the brake lights go on .	我當時是一位年輕的駕駛在高速公路上 , 車在我面前 , 我看到的是布拉克的光線 。
i'm like , " okay , all right , this guy is slowing down , i'll slow down too . "	我說: 「 好 , 沒錯 , 這個傢伙慢下來 , 我會慢下來 。 」
i step on the brake .	我站在公車上 。
but no , this guy isn't slowing down .	但不 , 這個傢伙不是慢下來 。
this guy is stopping , dead stop , dead stop on the highway .	這個傢伙停下來 , 停下來 , 停在高速公路上 。
it was just going 65 to zero ?	只有65到0 ?
i slammed on the brakes .	我在巴克上滑雪了 。
i felt the abs kick in , and the car is still going , and it's not going to stop , and i know it's not going to stop , and the air bag deploys , the car is totaled , and fortunately , no one was hurt .	我覺得ab踢了 , 車子仍然持續下去 , 我知道它不會停下來 , 空氣部落 , 車子被被安裝 , 很幸運地 , 沒有人被傷害 。
but i had no idea that car was stopping , and i think we can do a lot better than that .	但我完全不知道車停下來 , 我想我們能做得更好 。
i think we can transform the driving experience by letting our cars talk to each other .	我認為我們可以改變開車的經驗 , 讓車子彼此交談 。
i just want you to think a little bit about what the experience of driving is like now .	我只是希望你們想一下開車的經驗 。
get into your car . close the door . you're in a glass bubble .	走進你的車 , 閉上門 。 你在玻璃泡泡中 。
you can't really directly sense the world around you .	你無法直接理解你周遭的世界 。
you're in this extended body .	你在這個延伸的身體裡 。
you're tasked with navigating it down partiallyseen roadways , in and amongst other metal giants , at superhuman speeds .	你被指控 , 將它分散在一半的路上 , 在其他金屬巨大的巨人身上 , 在超級human的速度上 。
okay ? and all you have to guide you are your two eyes .	好嗎 ? 你只需要指導你兩個眼睛 。
okay , so that's all you have , eyes that weren't really designed for this task , but then people ask you to do things like , you want to make a lane change , what's the first thing they ask you do ?	好的 , 各位的眼睛不是為了這個任務而設計的 , 但是人們要求你做類似的事 , 你想做一台車 , 他們要怎麼做 ?
take your eyes off the road . that's right .	用你的眼睛從路上看 , 沒錯 。
stop looking where you're going , turn , check your blind spot , and drive down the road without looking where you're going .	停止看你在哪裡 , 轉向你的盲目點 , 開車道路 , 不用看你在哪裡去 。
you and everyone else . this is the safe way to drive .	你和其他人一樣 , 這是最安全的駕駛方式 。
why do we do this ? because we have to , we have to make a choice , do i look here or do i look here ?	為什麼我們要這樣做 ? 因為我們必須做個選擇 , 我會在這裡 , 看吧 ?
and usually we do a fantastic job picking and choosing what we attend to on the road .	通常 , 我們會做一件很棒的工作 , 選擇我們在路上做些什麼 。
but occasionally we miss something .	但偶爾我們忽略了一些東西 。
occasionally we sense something wrong or too late .	偶爾 , 我們會感覺出錯或太遲 。
in countless accidents , the driver says , " i didn't see it coming . "	在無數意外的意外中 , 司機說: 「 我看不到它 。 」
and i believe that . i believe that .	我相信 , 我相信這一點 。
we can only watch so much .	我們只能看得太多 。
but the technology exists now that can help us improve that .	但科技現在存在 , 可以幫助我們改善這一點 。
in the future , with cars exchanging data with each other , we will be able to see not just three cars ahead and three cars behind , to the right and left , all at the same time , bird's eye view , we will actually be able to see into those cars .	在未來 , 車子和彼此交換資料 , 我們將能看到的不只是三輛車 , 三輛車背後 , 到右邊和左邊 , 同時 , 鳥的眼睛 , 我們真的能看見車子 。
we will be able to see the velocity of the car in front of us , to see how fast that guy's going or stopping .	我們將能看到我們面前的車子的速度 , 看看那傢伙的速度有多快或停止 。
if that guy's going down to zero , i'll know .	如果那個傢伙走到零 , 我就會知道 。
and with computation and algorithms and predictive models , we will be able to see the future .	透過計算和演算法和預測模式 , 我們將能看見未來 。
you may think that's impossible .	你可能認為這不可能 。
how can you predict the future ? that's really hard .	你要如何預測未來 ? 這真的很困難 。
actually , no . with cars , it's not impossible .	事實上 , 沒有 。 車子 , 不可能 。
cars are threedimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity .	車子是三維的物體 , 有固定的位置和動力 。
they travel down roads .	他們走下路 。
often they travel on prepublished routes .	通常他們都在出版的路上旅行 。
it's really not that hard to make reasonable predictions about where a car's going to be in the near future .	對於近期的車子是不是很容易的預測 。
even if , when you're in your car and some motorcyclist comes bshoom ! 85 miles an hour down , lanesplitting i know you've had this experience that guy didn't " just come out of nowhere . "	就算 , 當你在車裡和一些摩托車員來了 ! 85英里 , 一小時 , 我知道你有這種經驗 , 沒有 「 走出來 」 的經驗 。
that guy's been on the road probably for the last half hour .	那傢伙在路上可能是上半小時 。
right ? i mean , somebody's seen him .	對嗎 ? 我的意思是 , 有人看過他 。
ten , 20 , 30 miles back , someone's seen that guy , and as soon as one car sees that guy and puts him on the map , he's on the map position , velocity , good estimate he'll continue going 85 miles an hour .	十、20、30英哩後 , 有人看過那個傢伙 , 只要一輛車 , 把他放到地圖上 , 他就在地圖上 , 高估他會持續85英里 。
you'll know , because your car will know , because that other car will have whispered something in his ear , like , " by the way , five minutes , motorcyclist , watch out . "	你會知道 , 因為你的車會知道 , 因為其他車子會在他的耳朵上 , 說: 「 順道一提 , 五分鐘 , 摩托車 , 看著 。 」
you can make reasonable predictions about how cars behave .	你可以做出合理的預測 , 關於車子如何運作 。
i mean , they're newtonian objects .	我的意思是 , 他們是牛頓的物品 。
that's very nice about them .	這對他們來說很棒 。
so how do we get there ?	那麼 , 我們該怎麼到那裡呢 ?
we can start with something as simple as sharing our position data between cars , just sharing gps .	我們可以從簡單的開始 , 用汽車之間的位置資料 , 來分享gps 。
if i have a gps and a camera in my car , i have a pretty precise idea of where i am and how fast i'm going .	如果我有gps和一台攝影機 , 我有很精確的點子 , 我在哪裡 , 和我有多快 。
with computer vision , i can estimate where the cars around me are , sort of , and where they're going .	透過電腦視覺 , 我可以估計我周圍的車子是哪裡的 , 有點像 , 他們在哪裡去 。
and same with the other cars .	和其他車一樣 。
they can have a precise idea of where they are , and sort of a vague idea of where the other cars are .	他們可以有精確的點子 , 有點像其他車子的位置 。
what happens if two cars share that data , if they talk to each other ?	如果兩輛車共享這些資料 , 如果他們彼此對話 , 會如何呢 ?
i can tell you exactly what happens .	我可以告訴你發生了什麼事 。
professor bob wang and his team have done computer simulations of what happens when fuzzy estimates combine , even in light traffic , when cars just share gps data , and we've moved this research out of the computer simulation and into robot test beds that have the actual sensors that are in cars now on these robots: stereo cameras , gps , and the twodimensional laser range finders that are common in backup systems .	波爾伯特和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 當難民估計組合時 , 甚至是光線交通 , 汽車共享gpps資料 , 我們將這個研究從電腦模擬和機器人測試的廣告取出了實際的感測器 , 目前在這些機器人上 , 如同creo相機、gps、gps , 以及兩次的雷射器 。
we also attach a discrete shortrange communication radio , and the robots talk to each other .	我們也在一個很短的溝通廣播廣播 , 機器人彼此對話 。
when these robots come at each other , they track each other's position precisely , and they can avoid each other .	當這些機器人互相抵抗時 , 它們會精確地追蹤彼此的位置 , 它們可以避免彼此 。
we're now adding more and more robots into the mix , and we encountered some problems .	我們現在將更多的機器人加入混合中 , 我們遇到了一些問題 。
one of the problems , when you get too much chatter , it's hard to process all the packets , so you have to prioritize , and that's where the predictive model helps you .	其中一個問題 , 當你遇到太多的章節時 , 很難處理所有的包裝 , 所以你必須優先化 , 那就是預測模式幫助你 。
if your robot cars are all tracking the predicted trajectories , you don't pay as much attention to those packets .	如果你的機器人車都在追蹤預期的軌跡 , 你不會對那些包裝的注意力不多 。
you prioritize the one guy who seems to be going a little off course .	你把一個看起來有點不錯的傢伙 。
that guy could be a problem .	那傢伙可能是個問題 。
and you can predict the new trajectory .	你可以預測新的軌跡 。
so you don't only know that he's going off course , you know how .	所以你不只知道他在做這件事 , 你知道如何 。
and you know which drivers you need to alert to get out of the way .	而你知道哪個驅動者 , 要讓任何人走出去 。
and we wanted to do how can we best alert everyone ?	我們想要怎麼做才能做到最好的所有人 ?
how can these cars whisper , " you need to get out of the way ? "	怎麼能讓這些車子摔角 , 「 你需要走路 ? 」
well , it depends on two things: one , the ability of the car , and second the ability of the driver .	嗯 , 它依賴兩件事:一 , 汽車的能力 , 第二個是駕駛的能力 。
if one guy has a really great car , but they're on their phone or , you know , doing something , they're not probably in the best position to react in an emergency .	如果一個人有一輛很棒的車 , 但他們在手機上 , 或者 , 做一些事 , 他們可能不是最好的位置 。
so we started a separate line of research doing driver state modeling .	所以 , 我們開始一系列的研究 , 做司機模式 。
and now , using a series of three cameras , we can detect if a driver is looking forward , looking away , looking down , on the phone , or having a cup of coffee .	現在 , 用一系列的三台攝影機 , 我們可以偵測駕駛是否向前看 , 向下看 , 看著手機 , 或喝咖啡 。
we can predict the accident and we can predict who , which cars , are in the best position to move out of the way to calculate the safest route for everyone .	我們可以預測出意外 , 我們能預測誰 , 哪個車位是最好的位置 , 去計算所有人的安全路線 。
fundamentally , these technologies exist today .	基本上 , 這些技術已經存在了 。
i think the biggest problem that we face is our own willingness to share our data .	我認為我們所面臨的最大問題是我們自己的意願能分享我們的資料 。
i think it's a very disconcerting notion , this idea that our cars will be watching us , talking about us to other cars , that we'll be going down the road in a sea of gossip .	我認為這是一個非常令人沮喪的點子 , 我們的車子會看著我們 , 談到其他車子 , 我們會在路上走下 。
but i believe it can be done in a way that protects our privacy , just like right now , when i look at your car from the outside , i don't really know about you .	但我相信 , 它可以用一種方式來保護我們的隱私的方式 , 就像現在 , 當我從外面看你的車時 , 我並不知道你 。
if i look at your license plate number , i don't really know who you are .	如果我看看你的執照數字 , 我真的不知道你是誰 。
i believe our cars can talk about us behind our backs .	我相信我們的車能在背後談論我們 。
and i think it's going to be a great thing .	我認為這將會是一件很棒的事 。
i want you to consider for a moment if you really don't want the distracted teenager behind you to know that you're braking , that you're coming to a dead stop .	我希望你們能考慮一下 , 如果你真的不想在你後面的青少年 , 知道你正在打破 , 你要去死的停止 。
by sharing our data willingly , we can do what's best for everyone .	藉由分享我們的資料 , 我們能為每個人做最好的事 。
so let your car gossip about you .	所以 , 讓你的車子來加速你 。
it's going to make the roads a lot safer .	它會讓道路更安全 。
x prize founder peter diamandis talks about how he helped stephen hawking fulfill his dream of going to space by flying together into the upper atmosphere and experiencing weightlessness at zero g .	xpm創辦人彼得.狄納斯談到他如何幫助史蒂芬•霍金的夢想 , 透過飛到上空的大氣中 , 飛到零的重量 。
business , flight , science , short talk , space , technology , universe	商業、飛行、科學、短暫的演講、空間、科技、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、太空、太空、太空、
peter diamandis on stephen hawking in zero g	史蒂芬•霍金的彼得•狄納斯在0ggggg的零箱上 , 彼得.
those of you who know me know how passionate i am about opening the space frontier .	那些知道我有多熱情 , 我是要打開空間前面的 。
so when i had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity , it was incredible .	所以當我有機會給世界上的專家重力 , 重力的體驗是不可思議的 。
and i want to tell you that story .	我想告訴各位這個故事 。
i first met him through the archon x prize for genomics .	我第一次遇見他 , 由基因組組組組組成 。
it's a competition we're holding , the second x prize , for the first team to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days .	這是我們握住的競爭 , 第二個x獎項 , 在10天內 , 將100個人類基因組序列出來 。
we have something called the genome 100 100 individuals we're sequencing as part of that .	我們有一種叫做基因組的100個人 , 我們將它定序成一部分 。
craig venter chairs that event .	克萊特的椅子 , 那個事件 。
and i met professor hawking , and he said his dream was to travel into space .	我遇見了教授霍金 , 他說他的夢想是去旅行空間 。
and i said , " i can't take you there , but i can take you into weightlessness into zerog .	我說: 「 我不能帶你們到那裡 , 但我可以把你帶到零中 。
and he said , on the spot , " absolutely , yes . "	然後他說: 「 絕對 , 是的 。 」
well , the only way to experience zerog on earth is actually with parabolic flight , weightless flight .	地球上唯一能體驗零的方法 , 其實是肢體飛行 , 沒有重量飛行的飛行 。
you take an airplane , you fly over the top , you're weightless for 25 seconds .	你拿一台飛機 , 飛過頂端 , 飛過了25秒 。
come back down , you weigh twice as much .	回來 , 重兩倍 。
you do it again and again .	你再次做一次 。
you can get eight , 10 minutes of weightlessness how nasa's trained their astronauts for so long .	你可以得到8、10分鐘的重量 , 以致於美國太空總署訓練他們的太空人多久 。
we set out to do this .	我們開始做這件事 。
it took us 11 years to become operational .	我們花了11年才能成為營運 。
and we announced that we were going to fly stephen hawking .	我們宣佈我們要飛到史蒂芬•霍金 。
we had one government agency and one company aircraft operator say , you're crazy , don't do that , you're going kill the guy .	我們有一間政府機構和一間公司飛機操作者說 , 你瘋了 , 別這樣做 , 你要殺了這個人 。
and he wanted to go .	他想去了 。
we worked hard to get all the permissions .	我們努力取得所有的允許 。
and six months later , we sat down at kennedy space center .	六個月後 , 我們坐在肯尼太空中心 。
we had a press conference , we announced our intent to do one zerog parabola , give him 25 seconds of zerog .	我們有一場媒體會議 , 我們宣佈了我們的意願去做一個零和派對 , 給他25秒的零 。
and if it went really well , we might do three parabolas .	若它真的很順利 , 我們可能會做三種悖論 。
well , we asked him why he wanted to go up and do this .	嗯 , 我們問他為什麼他想去做這件事 。
and what he said , for me , was very moving .	他對我說 , 對我來說 , 非常動 。
he said , " life on earth is at an everincreasing risk of being wiped out by disaster . . .	他說: 「 地球上的生命是一場災難造成的風險 。
i think the human race doesn't have a future if it doesn't go into space .	我想 , 人類的種族沒有未來 , 如果它不會進入太空 。
i therefore want to encourage public interest in space . "	所以我想鼓勵公共利益 。 」
we took him out to the kennedy space center , up inside the nasa vehicle , into the back of the zerog airplane .	我們把他帶到kenededy太空中心 , 在美國太空總署車內 , 進入零飛機的後面 。
we had about 20 people who made donations we raised $150 , 000 in donations for children's charities who flew with us .	我們有大約20個人做捐贈 , 我們收入了150萬美元的捐贈 , 給孩子的慈善機構 。
a few tedsters here .	這裡有幾個tedtster 。
we set up a whole er .	我們設立了整個伺服器 。
we had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane .	我們有四個急診室醫生和兩位護士在飛機上 。
we were monitoring his po2 of his blood , his heart rate , his blood pressure .	我們正在監視他的血液2的二氧化碳 , 他的心率 , 他的血壓 。
we had everything all set in case of an emergency ; god knows , you don't want to hurt this worldrenowned expert .	我們所有東西都在一個緊急情況下設立 ; 上帝知道 , 你不想傷害這個世界的專家 。
we took off from the shuttle landing facility , where the shuttle takes off and lands .	我們從垃圾桶降落 , 在那裡 , 梭狀會脫離和土地 。
and my partner byron lichtenberg and i carefully suspended him into zerog .	而我的夥伴lironlichberg , 我小心地讓他變成0g 。
once he was there , [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like .	一旦他在那裡 , 讓他去體驗無關的重量 。
and after that first parabola , you know , the doc said everything is great . he was smiling , and we said go .	一開始 , 醫生說了一切都很棒 , 他很笑 , 我們說了吧 。
so we did a second parabola .	所以 , 我們做了第二個小行星 。
we actually floated an apple in homage to sir isaac newton because professor hawking holds the same chair at cambridge that isaac newton did .	我們真的把一個蘋果漂浮在伊斯蘭的牛頓 , 因為哈佛教授們在劍橋上抱著同樣的椅子 , 這位是伊斯蘭的牛頓 。
and we did a fourth , and a fifth and a sixth .	我們做了第四個 , 一個第五和六個 。
and a seventh and an eighth .	一個第七、八歲 。
and this man does not look like a 65yearold wheelchairbound man .	這個人看起來不像一個65歲的輪椅男子 。
he was so happy .	他很高興 。
we are living on a precious jewel , and it's during our lifetime that we're moving off this planet .	我們生活在一個珍貴的珠寶中 , 在我們這顆星球的一生中 。
please join us in this epic adventure .	請加入我們這個廣泛的冒險 。
medical animator david bolinsky presents 3 minutes of stunning animation that show the bustling life inside a cell .	醫學動畫家davidbolinsk的現場有3分鐘的動畫 , 顯示細胞內的細微生物 。
design , entertainment , film , health , medicine , science , technology , visualizations	設計、娛樂、電影、醫療、醫學、科學、科技、視覺化、視覺化
david bolinsky animates a cell	大衛•波里斯基動畫一個細胞動畫一個細胞 。
i'm a medical illustrator , and i come from a slightly different point of view .	我是醫師 , 我來自一些不同的觀點 。
i've been watching , since i grew up , the expressions of truth and beauty in the arts and truth and beauty in the sciences .	我一直在看 , 從我長大 , 真相和美麗的表達 , 在藝術和現實和科學的美麗 。
and while these are both wonderful things in their own right they both have very wonderful things going for them truth and beauty as ideals that can be looked at by the sciences and by math are almost like the ideal conjoined twins that a scientist would want to date .	雖然這兩件事都很美好 , 但他們兩者都有非常美好的事物 , 可以用科學的理想看待 , 數學幾乎就像是科學家想約會的雙胞胎 。
these are expressions of truth as awefull things , by meaning they are things you can worship .	這些是說真相的表達 , 像是很棒的事物 , 意思是 , 它們是你能珍惜的東西 。
they are ideals that are powerful . they are irreducible .	它們是很強大的理想 。 它們是不可思議的 。
they are unique . they are useful sometimes , often a long time after the fact .	他們是獨一無二的 , 有時很有用的 , 通常在事實之後很長一段時間 。
and you can actually roll some of the pictures now , because i don't want to look at me on the screen .	你現在可以動一些照片 , 因為我不想在螢幕上看我 。
truth and beauty are things that are often opaque to people who are not in the sciences .	真相和美 , 通常對不在科學裡的人來說都是相反的 。
they are things that describe beauty in a way that is often only accessible if you understand the language and the syntax of the person who studies the subject in which truth and beauty is expressed .	它們是描述美的方式 , 如果你了解語言和語言的合成 , 通常 , 才會被描述出真實和美麗的主題 。
if you look at the math , e=mc squared , if you look at the cosmological constant , where there's an anthropic ideal , where you see that life had to evolve from the numbers that describe the universe these are things that are really difficult to understand .	如果你看看數學 , e=mc正方形 , 如果你看看宇宙的永續發展 , 那裡有一個人類理想的理念 , 你可以看到生命必須從宇宙中演化出來 , 這些都是很難理解的 。
and what i've tried to do since i had my training as a medical illustrator since i was taught animation by my father , who was a sculptor and my visual mentor i wanted to figure out a way to help people understand truth and beauty in the biological sciences by using animation , by using pictures , by telling stories so that the things that are not necessarily evident to people can be brought forth , and can be taught , and can be understood .	自從我當作醫學插圖師 , 我從我父親教導的動畫和視覺導師 , 我想要找出一個方法來幫助人們了解生物科學 , 透過圖片 , 說故事 , 以說故事 , 讓人們不見得被賦予 , 且可以被教導 。
students today are often immersed in an environment where what they learn is subjects that have truth and beauty embedded in them , but the way they're taught is compartmentalized and it's drawn down to the point where the truth and beauty are not always evident .	現今 , 學生常常在環境中聚集在環境中 , 他們學到的是有真相和美感的主題 , 但他們被教導的方式是比較的 , 它會被吸引到真實和美麗 。
it's almost like that old recipe for chicken soup where you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone .	幾乎就像是雞的古老感應湯 , 你把雞放在那裏 , 直到雞的尾巴已經消失了 。
we don't want to do that to our students .	我們不想對我們的學生做這件事 。
so we have an opportunity to really open up education .	所以我們有機會真正開放教育 。
and i had a telephone call from robert lue at harvard , in the molecular and cellular biology department , a couple of years ago . he asked me if my team and i would be interested and willing to really change how medical and scientific education is done at harvard .	我有一間電話 , 來自哈佛的羅伯特•路易斯 , 在分子和細胞生物學系中 , 幾年前 , 他問我 , 如果我的團隊有興趣 , 我會真正地改變醫療和科學教育如何在哈佛做 。
so we embarked on a project that would explore the cell that would explore the truth and beauty inherent in molecular and cellular biology so that students could understand a larger picture that they could hang all of these facts on .	所以 , 我們開始探索細胞 , 來探索分子和細胞內的真相和美麗 , 讓學生能夠了解一個更大的圖片 , 讓他們能在這些事實上都能用 。
they could have a mental image of the cell as a large , bustling , hugely complicated city that's occupied by micromachines .	細胞的心智影像是很大的 , 很複雜的城市 , 由微型海灘所佔有的 。
and these micromachines really are at the heart of life .	這些微生物真的是生命的核心 。
these micromachines , which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over , are selfdirected , powerful , precise , accurate devices that are made out of strings of amino acids .	這些微生物 , 是美國奈米科技學家的靈活性 , 是自我挑選、精確、精確、精確的裝置 , 是由胺基酸所組成的 。
and these micromachines power how a cell moves .	而這些微游生物的力量是如何移動的 。
they power how a cell replicates . they power our hearts .	他們能發揮細胞如何複製 , 力量我們的心臟 。
they power our minds .	他們力量了我們的腦袋 。
and so what we wanted to do was to figure out how we could make this story into an animation that would be the centerpiece of biovisions at harvard , which is a website that harvard has for its molecular and cellular biology students that will in addition to all the textual information , in addition to all the didactic stuff put everything together visually , so that these students would have an internalized view of what a cell really is in all of its truth and beauty , and be able to study with this view in mind , so that their imaginations would be sparked , so that their passions would be sparked and so that they would be able to go on and use these visions in their head to make new discoveries and to be able to find out , really , how life works .	所以 , 我們想知道如何把這個故事弄成一個動畫 , 將是哈佛的生物建議中心 , 哈佛的網站 , 哈佛的分子和細胞生物學的學生 , 除了所有細微的資訊 , 以外 , 這些學生會有內在的視覺化 , 以外 , 讓這些學生們能在所有細胞的真相中發現 , 並且在他們的心中確認它們的心中 , 讓它們的心靈感激發 , 能夠被發現 。
so we set out by looking at how these molecules are put together .	所以我們藉由觀察這些分子如何組成 。
we worked with a theme , which is , you've got macrophages that are streaming down a capillary , and they're touching the surface of the capillary wall , and they're picking up information from cells that are on the capillary wall , and they are given this information that there's an inflammation somewhere outside , where they can't see and sense .	我們和一個主題合作 , 就是 , 這裡有一座巨噬的大樓 , 牠們正在觸碰捕捉牆的表面 , 它們會從附近的牆上拿起資訊 , 裡面有一種訊息 , 顯示在外面的某些地方 , 無法看見和感知 。
but they get the information that causes them to stop , causes them to internalize that they need to make all of the various parts that will cause them to change their shape , and try to get out of this capillary and find out what's going on .	但他們得到的資訊 , 使他們停下來 , 使他們內心化 , 使他們能改變他們的形狀 , 並試著從這個捕捉到找出發生了什麼事 。
so these molecular motors we had to work with the harvard scientists and databank models of the atomically accurate molecules and figure out how they moved , and figure out what they did .	所以 , 我們必須和哈佛科學家和資料資料模型合作 , 原本是準確的分子模型 , 找出它們如何移動 , 找出他們做了什麼 。
and figure out how to do this in a way that was truthful in that it imparted what was going on , but not so truthful that the compact crowding in a cell would prevent the vista from happening .	想出如何用一種真理的方式來做這件事 , 來實現發生了什麼事 , 但不太真理 , 細胞裡的配偶會阻止病毒發生的狀況 。
and so what i'm going to show you is a threeminute reader's digest version of the first aspect of this film that we produced . it's an ongoing project that's going to go another four or five years .	接下來我要給你們看的是三分鐘的讀者的第一版本 , 是我們所製作的電影的第一面版本 。 這是一項正在進行的計劃 , 接下來四到五年 。
and i want you to look at this and see the paths that the cell manufactures these little walking machines , they're called kinesins that take these huge loads that would challenge an ant in relative size .	我希望你們看看這條路 , 看看細胞製造這些小步行機器的路徑 , 他們稱之為ksins , 把這些巨大的大型螞蟻挑戰一個對象的螞蟻 。
run the movie , please .	拜託 , 拜託 。
but these machines that power the inside of the cells are really quite amazing , and they really are the basis of all life because all of these machines interact with each other .	但這些機器在細胞內部的力量非常了不起 , 它們真的是所有生命的基礎 , 因為這些機器彼此互相互動 。
they pass information to each other .	他們把資訊傳給彼此 。
they cause different things to happen inside the cell .	他們會造成不同的事發生在細胞內 。
and the cell will actually manufacture the parts that it needs on the fly , from information that's brought from the nucleus by molecules that read the genes .	細胞會製造它在果蠅上需要的零件 , 來自來自細胞核能的資訊 , 由這些分子來解讀基因的分子 。
no life , from the smallest life to everybody here , would be possible without these little micromachines .	沒有生命 , 從最小的生命到這裡 , 不會有這些小小小的微生物 。
in fact , it would really , in the absence of these machines , have made the attendance here , chris , really quite sparse .	事實上 , 在這些機器的缺乏之中 , 已經有了不穩定的 , 克里斯 , 非常快 。
this is the fedex delivery guy of the cell .	這是fedex運送細胞的傢伙 。
this little guy is called the kinesin , and he pulls a sack that's full of brand new manufactured proteins to wherever it's needed in the cell whether it's to a membrane , whether it's to an organelle , whether it's to build something or repair something .	這個小傢伙叫做ksin , 他把一堆全新的製造蛋白質帶到細胞裡 , 不管是它是身處的 , 不管是有機的 , 不管是要建造東西或修復東西 。
and each of us has about 100 , 000 of these things running around , right now , inside each one of your 100 trillion cells .	而我們每個人都有大約十萬件東西在你100兆個細胞內 。
so no matter how lazy you feel , you're not really intrinsically doing nothing .	所以 , 不管你感覺多懶惰 , 你都沒有真正的做任何事 。
so what i want you to do when you go home is think about this , and think about how powerful our cells are .	所以 , 我希望你們回家想這點 , 想想我們的細胞有多強大 。
and think about some of the things that we're learning about cellular mechanics .	想想我們在學習細胞機械的一些東西 。
once we figure out all that's going on and believe me , we know almost a percent of what's going on once we figure out what's going on , we're really going to be able to have a lot of control over what we do with our health , with what we do with future generations , and how long we're going to live .	一旦我們想出了一切 , 相信我 , 我們幾乎知道發生了什麼事 , 我們真的能夠掌控我們對我們的健康 , 和未來的世代 , 以及我們要活多久 。
and hopefully we'll be able to use this to discover more truth , and more beauty .	希望我們能用這種方法來發現更真實的真理 , 更美麗 。
but it's really quite amazing that these cells , these micromachines , are aware enough of what the cell needs that they do their bidding .	但很驚人的是 , 這些細胞 , 這些微小的細菌 , 足以察覺到細胞的需求 。
they work together . they make the cell do what it needs to do .	他們一起工作 , 讓細胞做該做的事 。
and their working together helps our bodies huge entities that they will never see function properly .	他們一起工作 , 協助我們身體的巨大特性 , 他們永遠無法正確地看到功能 。
enjoy the rest of the show . thank you .	享受節目的其他節目 。 謝謝 。
becky blanton planned to live in her van for a year and see the country , but when depression set in and her freelance job ended , her camping trip turned into homelessness . in this intimate talk , she describes her experience of becoming one of america's working homeless .	貝基•布蘭頓計劃了一年 , 看到這個國家 , 但當憂鬱症和她的自由工作結束時 , 她的營地變成無家可歸 。 在這個親密的演講中 , 她描述了她的經歷 , 成為一個無家可歸的美國人 。
adventure , happiness , life , personal growth , poverty , social change , society , storytelling	冒險、幸福、人生、個人成長、貧窮、社會變遷、社會、故事故事、故事、快樂、生活、生活、生活、個人成長、貧窮、社會、社會、社會、社會、
becky blanton: the year i was homeless	貝多•布蘭頓:我是無家可歸的一年 。
i'm a writer and a journalist , and i'm also an insanely curious person , so in 22 years as a journalist , i've learned how to do a lot of new things .	我是作家和記者 , 我也是個好奇的人 , 所以22年來 , 身為記者 , 我學會如何做很多新事 。
and three years ago , one of the things i learned how to do was to become invisible .	三年前 , 我學到了我如何做的事之一 , 就是成為隱形的 。
i became one of the working homeless .	我成了一名無家可歸的無家可歸 。
i quit my job as a newspaper editor after my father died in february of that same year , and decided to travel .	我把我的工作當作報紙編輯 , 在我父親在那一年二月的二月後 , 決定要旅行 。
his death hit me pretty hard .	他的死亡讓我很辛苦 。
and there were a lot of things that i wanted to feel and deal with while i was doing that .	在我做這件事時 , 有很多我想要感受和處理的事物 。
i've camped my whole life . and i decided that living in a van for a year to do this would be like one long camping trip .	我一生都停下來了 。 我決定 , 一年內活在一輛車上 , 這樣做就好像一個很長的營地旅行 。
so i packed my cat , my rottweiler and my camping gear into a 1975 chevy van , and drove off into the sunset , having fully failed to realize three critical things .	所以 , 我把我的貓包包起來 , 我的rotweiler和我的營火裝到1975年的飛行車 , 把車退到陽光上 , 完全無法意識到三件重要的事 。
one: that society equates living in a permanent structure , even a shack , with having value as a person .	第一:社會平等生活在永久的結構中 , 甚至是陰影 , 有價值 , 身為一個人 。
two: i failed to realize how quickly the negative perceptions of other people can impact our reality , if we let it .	第二:我沒意識到他人的負面感知 , 可能影響我們的現實 , 如果我們放下它 。
three: i failed to realize that homelessness is an attitude , not a lifestyle .	第三:我沒意識到 , 無家可歸是一種態度 , 而不是生活方式 。
at first , living in the van was great .	一開始 , 住在車上很棒 。
i showered in campgrounds . i ate out regularly .	我在營地展示了 , 我常常吃 。
and i had time to relax and to grieve .	我有時間重新放鬆和悲傷 。
but then the anger and the depression about my father's death set in .	但 , 憤怒和憂鬱症 , 我父親的死亡就在此 。
my freelance job ended . and i had to get a fulltime job to pay the bills .	我的自由工作結束了 , 我必須得到全職的工作 , 來支付鈔票 。
what had been a really mild spring turned into a miserably hot summer .	當時的春天轉變成一個非常熱的夏天 。
and it became impossible to park anywhere without being very obvious that i had a cat and a dog with me , and it was really hot .	任何地方都不可能公園 , 不用很明顯 , 我和一隻貓在一起 , 真的很熱 。
the cat came and went through an open window in the van .	貓在車上穿過一扇開窗 。
the doggy went into doggy day care .	蛋白質進入了小白天照護 。
whenever i could , i used employee showers in office buildings and truck stops .	無論如何 , 我都用辦公室大樓的員工 , 卡車停止 。
or i washed up in public rest rooms .	或我在公共餐廳洗澡 。
nighttime temperatures in the van rarely dropped below 80 degrees fahrenheit , making it difficult or impossible to sleep .	夜晚的溫度很少降低了80度的水平 , 使得睡眠很難睡覺 。
food rotted in the heat .	食物在熱中旋轉了 。
ice in my ice chest melted within hours , and it was pretty miserable .	在我的冰箱中 , 數小時內 , 冰塊被融化 , 非常糟糕 。
i couldn't afford to find an apartment , or couldn't afford an apartment that would allow me to have the rottweiler and the cat .	我買不起公寓 , 或無法負擔擔不起公寓 , 讓我能有推特和貓 。
and i refused to give them up , so i stayed in the van .	我拒絕放棄他們 , 所以我待在車上 。
and when the heat made me too sick to walk the 50 feet to the public restroom outside my van at night , i used a bucket and a trash bag as a toilet .	當熱能讓我生病到我車外的五十英尺外面的公共餐廳時 , 我用一塊錢和一條垃圾桶當成廁所 。
when winter weather set in , the temperatures dropped below freezing . and they stayed there .	當冬天天天氣設置時 , 溫度降低了 。
and i faced a whole new set of challenges .	我面臨了全新的挑戰 。
i parked a different place every night so i would avoid being noticed and hassled by the police .	我每天晚上都停了一間不同的地方 , 這樣我會避免被警察所注意到 ,
i didn't always succeed .	我不總是成功 。
but i felt out of control of my life .	但我感覺到我人生的掌控 。
and i don't know when or how it happened , but the speed at which i went from being a talented writer and journalist to being a homeless woman , living in a van , took my breath away .	我不知道它是怎麼發生的 , 但我從一個有才華的作家和記者來當一個無家可歸的女人 , 活在車上 , 帶著我的呼吸 。
i hadn't changed . my i . q . hadn't dropped .	我沒有改變 。 我的智商並沒有降低 。
my talent , my integrity , my values , everything about me remained the same .	我的才華 , 我的理智 , 我的價值觀 , 所有關於我所留下的一切 。
but i had changed somehow .	但我已經改變了 。
i spiraled deeper and deeper into a depression .	我更深入深入憂鬱症 。
and eventually someone referred me to a homeless health clinic .	最終 , 有人把我推向無家可歸的醫療診所 。
and i went . i hadn't bathed in three days .	我走了 , 三天沒有洗澡 。
i was as smelly and as depressed as anyone in line .	我和任何人一樣很沮喪 。
i just wasn't drunk or high .	我只是喝酒 , 或高度 。
and when several of the homeless men realized that , including a former university professor , they said , " you aren't homeless . why are you really here ? "	當數位無家可歸的人意識到 , 包括前大學教授 , 他們說: 「 你不是無家可歸的 。 為什麼你在這裡 ? 」
other homeless people didn't see me as homeless , but i did .	其他無家可歸的人都看不到我是無家可歸的 , 但我確實做到了 。
then the professor listened to my story and he said , " you have a job . you have hope .	然後教授們傾聽我的故事 , 他說: 「 你有工作 , 你有希望 。
the real homeless don't have hope . "	真正的無家可歸 , 沒有希望 。 」
a reaction to the medication the clinic gave me for my depression left me suicidal . and i remember thinking , " if i killed myself , no one would notice . "	診所給了我一個反應 , 給了我憂鬱症讓我感到自殺 。 我記得: 「 如果我殺了自己 , 沒有人會注意到 。 」
a friend told me , shortly after that , that she had heard that tim russert , a nationally renowned journalist , had been talking about me on national t . v .	一個朋友告訴我 , 不久後 , 她聽過那位俄羅斯 , 一名全國的記者 , 一直在談我在國家t.v 。
an essay i'd written about my father , the year before he died , was in tim's new book .	我寫了一本關於我父親的命運 , 他死後的一年 , 當時是泰姆的新書 。
and he was doing the talk show circuit . and he was talking about my writing .	他在做這個演說節目 。 他在談我的寫作 。
and when i realized that tim russert , former moderator of " meet the press , " was talking about my writing , while i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , i started laughing .	當我意識到 , 最初的俄羅斯 , 位於 「 會議 」 , 談到我的寫作 , 我在沃爾瑪停車的車上 , 我開始笑 。
i started laughing because it got to the point where , was i a writer , or was i a homeless woman ?	我開始笑 , 是因為那時候 , 我是作家 , 還是一個無家可歸的女人 ?
so i went in the bookstore . and i found tim's book .	所以我去了書中 。 我找到了tim的書 。
and i stood there . and i reread my essay .	我站在那裡了 。 我把我的命運放回去 。
because i was a writer .	因為我是作家 。
i was a writer .	我是個作家 。
shortly after that i moved back to tennessee .	不久之後 , 我搬回田納西 。
i alternated between living in a van and couch surfing with friends .	我和朋友一起改變生活 。
and i started writing again .	我再次寫作 。
by the summer of the following year i was a working journalist .	在接下來的年夏天 , 我是個工作記者 。
i was winning awards . i was living in my own apartment .	我贏了獎勵 。 我自己住在我自己的公寓裡 。
i was no longer homeless .	我不再無家可歸 。
and i was no longer invisible .	我不再隱形了 。
thousands of people work full and parttime jobs , and live in their cars .	數以千計的人都在工作和參與工作 , 生活在他們的車子裡 。
but society continues to stigmatize and criminalize living in your vehicle or on the streets .	但社會持續被忽略並犯罪 , 在你的車輛或街上 。
so the homeless , the working homeless , primarily remain invisible .	所以 , 無家可歸 , 無家可歸 , 主要是保持隱形 。
but if you ever meet one , engage them , encourage them , and offer them hope .	但如果你遇過一個人 , 鼓勵他們 , 並提供他們希望 。
the human spirit can overcome anything if it has hope .	如果有希望的話 , 人類的精神能克服任何東西 。
and i'm not here to be the poster girl for the homeless .	我不是要成為無家可歸的女生 。
i'm not here to encourage you to give money to the next panhandler you meet .	我不是要鼓勵你們給你下一個panhandler的錢給你 。
but i am here to tell you that , based on my experience , people are not where they live , where they sleep , or what their life situation is at any given time .	但我在這裡要告訴各位 , 根據我的經驗 , 人們不是生活在哪裡 , 他們睡在哪裡 , 或生活情境在任何時刻 。
three years ago i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , and today i'm speaking at ted .	三年前 , 我住在一個沃爾瑪停車場 , 今天我在ted演講 。
hope always , always finds a way . thank you .	希望永遠 , 總是找到一個方法 。 謝謝 。
at tedxchange , thailand's " mr . condom , " mechai viravaidya , walks us through the country's bold plan to raise its standard of living , starting in the 1970s . first step: population control . and that means a lot of frank , funny and very effective talk about condoms .	在tedxchange , 泰國的 " mr. " 音樂 " 中 , 墨西拉哈維亞 , 帶著我們走過國家大膽的計畫 , 從1970年代開始 , 第一步開始 , 人口控制 。 這意味著很多法蘭克、非常有趣的和非常有效的談話 。
culture , global issues , health , population , science	文化、全球性議題、健康、科學、科學、科學和社會 。
mechai viravaidya: how mr . condom made thailand a better place	梅拉蒂亞:mr.保險套如何讓泰國變得更好的地方 , 讓泰國更好的地方 。
now , when i was a young man 40 years ago , the country was very , very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty .	四十年前 , 我還是個年輕人 , 國家非常非常貧窮 , 許多人生活在貧窮之中 。
we decided to do something about it , but we didn't begin with a welfare program or a poverty reduction program .	我們決定要做點什麼 , 但我們沒有從福利計畫或貧窮的計畫開始 。
but we began with a familyplanning program , following a very successful maternal child health activity , sets of activities .	但我們從一個家庭平台開始 , 追隨一個非常成功的女兒健康活動 , 一組活動 。
so basically , no one would accept family planning if their children didn't survive .	基本上 , 沒有人會接受家庭規劃 , 如果他們的孩子沒有生存 。
so the first step: get to the children , get to the mothers , and then follow up with family planning .	第一步:去找孩子 , 來到母親 , 然後跟著家庭規劃 。
not just child mortality alone , you need also family planning .	不只是兒童死亡率 , 你也需要家庭規劃 。
now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it .	現在 , 讓我回顧一下為什麼我們要做這件事 。
in my country , that was the case in 1974 .	在我的國家 , 那是1974年的案例 。
seven children per family tremendous growth at 3 . 3 percent .	每個家庭中的七個孩子在3.3%的成長 。
there was just no future .	沒有未來 。
we needed to reduce the population growth rate .	我們需要減少人口成長率 。
so we said , " let's do it . "	我們說: 「 咱們來做 。 」
the women said , " we agree . we'll use pills , but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills , " and we had very , very few doctors .	女人說: 「 我們同意 , 我們會用藥 , 但我們需要醫生來準備藥丸 。 」 我們有非常少的醫生 。
we didn't take no as an answer ; we took no as a question .	我們沒有作為一個答案 , 我們沒有一個問題 。
we went to the nurses and the midwives , who were also women , and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill .	我們去了護士和候選人 , 他們也是女性 , 做了一件很棒的工作 , 解釋如何使用藥 。
that was wonderful , but it covered only 20 percent of the country .	那真是太棒了 , 但它只包含了20%的國家 。
what do we do for the other 80 percent leave them alone and say , " well , they're not medical personnel . "	我們為其它80%離開他們 , 說: 「 嗯 , 他們不是醫療人員 。 」
no , we decided to do a bit more .	不 , 我們決定再做一點 。
so we went to the ordinary people that you saw .	所以我們去了你所見的普通人 。
actually , below that yellow sign i wish they hadn't wiped that , because there was " cocacola " there .	實際上 , 黃色的標誌下方 , 我希望他們沒寫過 , 因為那裡有 「 可口可樂 」 。
we were so much bigger than cocacola in those days .	那些日子我們比可口可樂更大 。
and no difference , the people they chose were the people we chose .	沒有差別 , 他們選擇的人是我們選的 。
they were wellknown in the community , they knew that customers were always right , and they were terrific , and they practiced their family planning themselves .	他們在社區中被知名 , 他們知道客戶總是對的 , 他們是很恐怖的 , 他們練習了他們的家庭規劃自己 。
so they could supply pills and condoms throughout the country , in every village of the country .	所以他們可以供給全國各地的藥和保險套 , 在全國各地的村莊 。
so there we are . we went to the people who were seen as the cause of the problem to be the solution .	所以 , 我們去了 。 我們去找那些被視為問題的原因 。
wherever there were people and you can see boats with the women , selling things here's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives wherever you find people , you'll find contraceptives in thailand .	不管哪裡有人 , 你都能看到那些女人的船 , 賣東西是漂浮的市場銷售香蕉和螃蟹 , 不管你找到人 , 你會在泰國找到避孕性 。
and then we decided , why not get to religion because in the philippines , the catholic church was pretty strong , and thai people were buddhist .	然後我們決定 , 為什麼不去宗教 , 因為在菲律賓 , 天主教堂很強壯 , 泰國人是佛教徒 。
we went to them and they said , " look , could you help us ? "	我們去找他們 , 他們說: 「 看 , 你能幫我們嗎 ? 」
i'm there the one in blue , not the yellow holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to sprinkle holy water on pills and condoms for the sanctity of the family .	我在那裡 , 藍色的 , 不是黃色的黃色 , 讓僧侶有著一塊美麗的水 , 可以在藥丸和保險套 , 讓家人保持聖經 。
and this picture was sent throughout the country .	這張照片是全國各地的 。
so some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves .	所以 , 在村莊裡的一些僧侶都在做同樣的事 。
and the women were saying , " no wonder we have no sideeffects .	女人說: 「 不想我們沒有副作用 。
it's been blessed . "	它被賦予了 。 」
that was their perception .	那是他們的感知 。
and then we went to teachers .	然後我們去了老師 。
you need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place .	你需要每個人參與 , 試著提供任何能讓人性更好的地方 。
so we went to the teachers .	所以我們去了老師 。
over a quarter of a million were taught about family planning with a new alphabet a , b for birth , c for condom , i for iud , v for vasectomy .	超過四十萬人被教導家庭規劃的家庭規劃 , 一個新的字母 , 一個新字母 , 出生 , 以外 , 我為伊德 , 為主動詞 。
and then we had a snakes and ladders game , where you throw dice .	接著 , 我們有一顆蛇和雷射遊戲 , 你丟掉掉掉掉掉 。
if you land on anything profamily planning , you move ahead .	如果你在任何預期規劃上降落 , 你就搬到前面 。
like , " mother takes the pill every night .	例如: 「 母親每天晚上都會吃藥 。
very good , mother . move ahead .	非常好 , 媽媽 , 向前移動 。
uncle buys a condom . very good , uncle . move ahead .	叔叔買了一套保險套 , 非常好 , 叔叔 , 往前移動 。
uncle gets drunk , doesn't use condom . come back , start again . "	叔叔喝酒 , 不用保險套 , 回來 , 再一次 。 」
again , education , class entertainment .	再一次 , 教育、課堂娛樂 。
and the kids were doing it in school too .	孩子們也在學校做這件事 。
we had relay races with condoms , we had children's condomblowing championship .	我們和保險套相關的種族 , 我們有孩子的同意冠軍 。
and before long , the condom was know as the girl's best friend .	不久以前 , 國會被認為是女孩最好的朋友 。
in thailand , for poor people , diamonds don't make it so the condom is the girl's best friend .	在泰國 , 對於窮人來說 , 鑽石不會讓它變得如此 , 內容是女孩最好的朋友 。
we introduced our first microcredit program in 1975 , and the women who organized it said , " we only want to lend to women who practice family planning .	我們介紹了1975年的第一項微型編輯計畫 , 那些組織的女性說: 「 我們只想把家庭規劃的女性交給女子 。
if you're pregnant , take care of your pregnancy .	如果你懷孕 , 照顧你的懷孕 。
if you're not pregnant , you can take a loan out from us . "	如果你不懷孕 , 你可以從我們身上拿出貸款 。 」
and that was run by them .	那是他們跑的 。
and after 35/36 years , it's still going on .	在35/36年後 , 它仍在發生 。
it's a part of the village development bank ; it's not a real bank , but it's a fund microcredit .	它是村落發展銀行的一部分 ; 它不是真正的銀行 , 而是一個基金的微型設備 。
and we didn't need a big organization to run it it was run by the villagers themselves .	我們不需要一個很大的組織 , 來處理它 , 是因為村民本身運作 。
and you probably hardly see a thai man there , it's always women , women , women , women .	你可能看不到泰國的男人 , 總是女人、女人、女人、女人、女人 。
and then we thought we'd help america , because america's been helping everyone , whether they want help or not .	然後我們認為我們會幫助美國 , 因為美國一直在幫助每個人 , 不論他們想要幫助或不想幫助 。
and this is on the fourth of july .	這是七月第四日 。
we decided to provide vasectomy to all men , but in particular , american men to the front of the queue , right up to the ambassador's residence during his [unclear] .	我們決定提供所有男人的昆蟲 , 但尤其是 , 美國男子前面 , 位於大使館的住宅 。
and the hotel gave us the ballroom for it very appropriate room .	飯店給了我們這個房間 , 讓它非常適當的房間 。
and since it was near lunch time , they said , " all right , we'll give you some lunch .	自從那近午餐時 , 他們說: 「 好 , 我們會給你一些午餐 。
of course , it must be american cola .	當然 , 它一定是美國的煤炭 。
you get two brands , coke and pepsi .	你得到兩個品牌 , 可樂和pepsi 。
and then the food is either hamburger or hotdog . "	接著 , 食物是漢堡或熱門 。 」
and i thought a hotdog will be more symbolic .	我覺得很熱 , 會更符合象徵 。
and here is this , then , young man called willy bohm who worked for the usaid .	這裡是這個 , 年輕人叫威廉博士 , 他為美國大屠殺工作 。
obviously , he's had his vasectomy because his hotdog is half eaten , and he was very happy .	很顯然 , 他的動作是因為他的熱量是半個飲食 , 他很開心 。
it made a lot of news in america , and it angered some people also .	它在美國製造了很多新聞 , 它也激發了一些人 。
i said , " don't worry . come over and i'll do the whole lot of you . "	我說: 「 別擔心 , 再過來 , 我會做很多人 。 」
in all this thing , from seven children to 1 . 5 children , population growth rate of 3 . 3 to 0 . 5 .	這一切 , 從七個孩子到1.5個孩子 , 人口成長率是3.3.3到0.5 。
you could call it the cocacola approach if you like it was exactly the same thing .	你可以稱它為可口可樂的方法 , 如果你喜歡它是相同的 。
i'm not sure whether cocacola followed us , or we followed cocacola , but we're good friends .	我不知道可口可樂是否跟著我們 , 或者我們遵循可樂 , 但我們是好朋友 。
and so that's the case of everyone joining in .	這就是所有人都參與的案例 。
we didn't have a strong government . we didn't have lots of doctors .	我們沒有一個堅強的政府 , 我們沒有很多醫生 。
but it's everybody's job who can change attitude and behavior .	但每個人都能改變態度和行為 。
then aids came along and hit thailand , and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight aids .	然後愛滋病來到達泰國 , 我們必須停止做很多好事來對抗愛滋病 。
but unfortunately , the government was in denial , denial , denial .	但不幸的是 , 政府在否認、否認、否認、否認 。
so our work wasn't affected .	所以 , 我們的作品並沒有受到影響 。
so i thought , " well , if you can't go to the government , go to the military . "	所以我想: 「 嗯 , 如果你不能去政府 , 去軍事 。 」
so i went to the military and asked to borrow 300 radio stations .	所以 , 我去了軍隊 , 請求借三百個電台站 。
they have more than the government , and they've got more guns than the government .	他們比政府更有槍 , 比政府更有槍 。
so i asked them , could they help us in our fight against hiv .	所以我問他們 , 他們可以幫助我們對抗愛滋病毒 。
and after i gave them statistics , they said , " yes . okay . you can use all the radio stations , television stations . "	在我給他們統計數據之後 , 他們說: 「 是的 。 你可以用所有的無線電站、電視站 。 」
and that's when we went onto the airwaves .	這就是我們去了空氣波的時候 。
and then we got a new prime minister soon after that .	之後 , 我們得到了一個新的總理 。
and he said , " mechai , could you come and join ? "	他說: 「 梅西 , 你能來加入嗎 ? 」
he asked me in because he liked my wife a lot .	他問我 , 因為他喜歡我的妻子 。
so i said , " okay . "	所以我說: 「 好吧 。 」
he became the chairman of the national aids committee and increased the budget fiftyfold .	他成為國家援助委員會的主席 , 增加預算的五十倍 。
every ministry , even judges , had to be involved in aids education everyone and we said the public , institutions , religious institutions , schools everyone was involved .	每個部長 , 甚至法官 , 都必須參與愛滋病教育 , 我們說了公共、機構、宗教機構 , 每個人都參與 。
and here , every media person had to be trained for hiv .	這裡 , 每個媒體都必須被訓練給愛滋病毒 。
and we gave every station half a minute extra for advertising to earn more money .	我們每一分鐘都給了廣告廣告額外的費用 。
so they were happy with that .	所以他們很開心 。
and then aids education in all schools , starting from university .	接著 , 愛滋病教育 , 從大學開始 。
and these are high school kids teaching high school kids .	這些是高中學生教高中生 。
and the best teachers were the girls , not the boys , and they were terrific .	最好的老師是女孩 , 不是男孩 , 他們是很棒的 。
and these girls who go around teaching about safe sex and hiv were known as mother theresa .	而這些女孩在教導安全性和愛滋病毒 , 被稱為 「 母親 」 。
and then we went down one more step .	然後我們再下一步了 。
these are primary school kids third , fourth grade going to every household in the village , every household in the whole of thailand , giving aids information and a condom to every household , given by these young kids .	這些是最主要的學校孩子第三 , 四年級 , 在村莊裡 , 每個家庭都在泰國 , 給予愛滋病資訊 , 給每個家庭 , 給這些年輕的孩子 。
and no parents objected , because we were trying to save lives , and this was a lifesaver .	沒有父母會想過 , 因為我們試圖拯救生命 , 這是個生命的命運 。
and we said , " everyone needs to be involved . "	我們說: 「 每個人都需要參與 。 」
so you have the companies also realizing that sick staff don't work , and dead customers don't buy .	所以 , 你也知道 , 生病人員不行 , 死去顧客不會買 。
so they all trained .	所以他們都訓練了 。
and then we have this captain condom , with his harvard mba , going to schools and night spots .	然後我們有了一座船長 , 和他的哈佛•麥巴 , 去上學和晚餐點 。
and they loved him . you need a symbol of something .	他們愛他 , 你需要一個符號 。
in every country , every program , you need a symbol , and this is probably the best thing he's ever done with his mba .	在每個國家 , 每個程式 , 你需要一個符號 , 這可能是他和他的mba做過最好的事 。
and then we gave condoms out everywhere on the streets everywhere , everywhere .	接著 , 我們在街上放棄了保險套 , 到處都在街上 。
in taxis , you get condoms .	在稅收中 , 你會得到保險套 。
and also , in traffic , the policemen give you condoms our " cops and rubbers " programs .	此外 , 在交通方面 , 警察給了我們 「 警察 」 和 「 折磨 」 計畫 。
so , can you imagine new york policemen giving out condoms ?	所以 , 你能否想像紐約警察給予保險套嗎 ?
of course i can . and they'd enjoy it immensely ; i see them standing around right now , everywhere .	當然我可以 。 他們會很享受它 , 我現在看到他們站在每個地方 。
imagine if they had condoms , giving out to all sorts of people .	想像一下 , 如果他們有了保險套 , 給予各種人 。
and then , new change , we had hair bands , clothing and the condom for your mobile phone during the rainy season .	接著 , 新的改變 , 我們有了頭髮樂團、衣服和你的手機 , 在雨季中手機 。
and these were the condoms that we introduced .	這些是我們所介紹的內容 。
one says , " weapon of mass protection . "	有人說: 「 大規模保護的武器 。 」
we found you know somebody here was searching for the weapon of mass destruction , but we have found the weapon of mass protection: the condom .	我們發現你們知道這裡有人在尋找大規模破壞的武器 , 但我們發現了大規模保護的武器:環境 。
and then it says here , with the american flag , " don't leave home without it . "	接著 , 美國旗幟說: 「 不要離開家 。 」
but i have some to give out afterward .	但我有一些東西要向前放棄 。
but let me warn you , these are thaisized , so be very careful .	但 , 讓我警告你們 , 這些都是被羞辱的 , 所以非常小心 。
and so you can see that condoms can do so many things .	你可以看到 , 保險套可以做這麼多事 。
look at this i gave this to al gore and to bill senior also .	看看這點 , 我給了這台高爾 , 比爾•皮諾 。
stop global warming ; use condoms .	停止全球暖化 ; 用保險套 。
and then this is the picture i mentioned to you the weapon of mass protection .	這張照片是我提到大規模保護的武器 。
and let the next olympics save some lives .	下一個奧林匹克拯救了一些生命 。
why just run around ?	為什麼要跑來呢 ?
and then finally , in thailand we're buddhist , we don't have a god , so instead , we say , " in rubber we trust . "	最後 , 在泰國 , 我們是佛教徒 , 我們沒有上帝 , 反之 , 我們說: 「 在我們信任的橡膠中 。 」
so you can see that we added everything to our endeavor to make life better for the people .	所以你可以看到 , 我們將所有東西加到我們的努力 , 讓生命更好 。
we had condoms in all the refrigerators in the hotels and the schools , because alcohol impairs judgment .	我們在所有冰箱和學校裡都有保險套 , 因為酒精不良的判斷 。
and then what happened ?	然後發生了什麼事 ?
after all this time , everybody joined in .	畢竟 , 每個人都加入了 。
according to the u . n . , new cases of hiv declined by 90 percent , and according to the world bank , 7 . 7 million lives were saved .	根據聯合國 , 新的愛滋病毒減少了90% , 根據世界銀行 , 770萬人的生命都被拯救了 。
otherwise there wouldn't be many thais walking around today .	否則 , 今天沒有很多的海軍走路 。
so it just showed you , you could do something about it .	所以它只是給你看 , 你可以做點什麼 。
90 percent of the funding came from thailand .	百分之九十的資金來自泰國 。
there was political commitment , some financial commitment , and everybody joined in the fight .	有政治承諾 , 有些財務承諾 , 每個人都加入了戰爭 。
so just don't leave it to the specialists and doctors and nurses .	所以 , 不要把它留給專家、醫生和護士 。
we all need to help .	我們都需要協助 。
and then we decided to help people out of poverty , now that we got aids somewhat out of the way this time , not with government alone , but in cooperation with the business community .	然後我們決定幫助人們脫離貧窮 , 現在我們就得以解決問題 , 而不是單單靠政府 , 而是與商業社區合作 。
because poor people are business people who lack business skills and access to credit .	因為窮人是缺乏商業技能的人 , 取得信用 。
those are the things to be provided by the business community .	這些是商業社群提供的 。
we're trying to turn them into barefoot entrepreneurs , little business people .	我們試著把他們轉變成創業家 , 小企業家 , 小企業家 。
the only way out of poverty is through business enterprise .	貧窮唯一的方法是透過商業企業企業 。
so , that was done .	所以 , 這已經完成了 。
the money goes from the company into the village via treeplanting .	貨幣從公司進入村莊的村莊 。
it's not a free gift .	這不是自由禮物 。
they plant the trees , and the money goes into their microcredit fund , which we call the village development bank .	他們植物樹木 , 金錢到他們的微型成本基金 , 我們稱之為村莊發展銀行 。
everybody joins in , and they feel they own the bank , because they have brought the money in .	每個人加入 , 他們覺得他們擁有銀行 , 因為他們把錢帶進來 。
and before you can borrow the money , you need to be trained .	在你能借錢之前 , 你得要被訓練 。
and we believe if you want to help the poor , those who are living in poverty , access to credit must be a human right .	我們相信如果你想幫助窮人 , 那些生活在貧窮的人 , 相信信用必須要是人權 。
access to credit must be a human right .	信用必須要是人權 。
otherwise they'll never get out of poverty .	否則他們永遠不會脫離貧窮 。
and then before getting a loan , you must be trained .	到達貸款之前 , 你一定要被訓練 。
here's what we call a " barefoot mba , " teaching people how to do business so that , when they borrow money , they'll succeed with the business .	這是我們所謂的 「 嬰兒mba 」 , 教導人們如何做生意 , 這樣做 , 當他們借錢時 , 他們就會成功 。
these are some of the businesses: mushrooms , crabs , vegetables , trees , fruits , and this is very interesting nike ice cream and nike biscuits ; this is a village sponsored by nike .	這些是一些企業:蘑菇、螃蟹、蔬菜、樹木、水果 , 這是非常有趣的冰淇淋 , 和nike的廢棄物 ; 這是用nike的村莊 。
they said , " they should stop making shoes and clothes .	他們說: 「 他們應該停止製造鞋和衣服 。
make these better , because we can afford them . "	做得更好 , 因為我們能付錢 。 」
and then we have silk , thai silk .	然後我們有絲、泰國絲 。
now we're making scottish tartans , as you can see on the left , to sell to all people of scottish ancestors .	現在 , 我們在製作蘇格蘭塔特丹 , 左邊你可以看到 , 賣給所有蘇格蘭祖先的所有人 。
so anyone sitting in and watching tv , get in touch with me .	所以 , 任何人坐著看著電視 , 跟我一起接觸 。
and then this is our answer to starbucks in thailand " coffee and condoms . "	這是我們在泰國的星巴克的答案: 「 咖啡和空間 」 。
see , starbucks you awake , we keep you awake and alive .	看 , 星巴克你醒來 , 我們保持醒著和活著 。
can you imagine , at every starbucks that you can also get condoms ?	你能想像 , 在你能得到的每一顆星巴克 ?
you can order your condoms with your with your cappuccino .	你可以用你的膠原子來配合你的信仰 。
and then now , finally in education , we want to change the school as being underutilized into a place where it's a lifelong learning center for everyone .	現在 , 最後 , 在教育方面 , 我們想要改變學校 , 把學校被被污染到一個地方 , 它是一生的學習中心 。
we call this our schoolbased integrated rural development .	我們稱之為我們的學校為基礎的鄉村發展 。
and it's a center , a focal point for economic and social development .	這是一個中心 , 一個經濟和社會發展的步驟 。
redo the school , make it serve the community needs .	紅色的學校 , 讓它能提供社區的需求 。
and here is a bamboo building all of them are bamboo .	這裡是一棟竹子建築 , 都是竹子 。
this is a geodesic dome made of bamboo .	這是一間地理的竹子構成的地質
and i'm sure buckminster fuller would be very , very proud to see a bamboo geodesic dome .	我相信巴克斯特•福特會非常非常驕傲 , 要看到一個竹子地理的屋頂 。
and we use vegetables around the school ground , so they raise their own vegetables .	我們在學校各地使用蔬菜 , 所以他們會用自己的蔬菜 。
and then , finally , i firmly believe , if we want the mdgs to work the millennium development goals we need to add family planning to it .	最後 , 我相信 , 如果我們希望數千禧世代的發展目標 , 我們需要加入家庭計劃 。
of course , child mortality first and then family planning everyone needs family planning service it's underutilized .	當然 , 孩童死亡率首先 , 然後家庭規劃每個人需要家庭規劃服務 , 它是被污染的 。
so we have now found the weapon of mass protection .	我們現在發現了大規模保護的武器 。
and we also ask the next olympics to be involved in saving lives .	我們也要求下一個奧林匹克來參與拯救生命 。
and then , finally , that is our network .	最後 , 這就是我們的網絡 。
and these are our thai tulips .	這些是我們的 「 泰國 」 。
thank you very much indeed .	非常謝謝大家 。
your smartphone may feel like a friend but a true friend would give you a smile once in a while . at ted2013 , keller rinaudo demos romo , the smartphonepowered mini robot who can motor along with you on a walk , slide you a cup of coffee across the table , and react to you with programmable expressions .	你的智慧手機可能感覺像個朋友 , 但真的朋友會在ted2013年 , 在ted2013年 , 克里娜•羅馬 , 智慧型機器人可以在路上移動 , 把你放在桌上 , 把咖啡放在桌上 , 反應給你 。
keller rinaudo: a mini robot powered by your phone	克里娜•里納多:一個由你的手機發電的小機器人權力 。
so just by a show of hands , how many of you all have a robot at home ?	只要舉手舉手 , 你們有多少人在家裡有機器人 ?
not very many of you .	不太多人 。
okay . and actually of those hands , if you don't include roomba how many of you have a robot at home ?	沒錯 , 實際上 , 如果你不包含房間 , 有多少人在家裡有機器人 ?
that's the problem that we're trying to solve at romotive that i and the other 20 nerds at romotive are obsessed with solving .	這是我們試圖解決的問題 , 我和其他20個浪漫的神經 , 都很迷人於解決解決問題 。
so we really want to build a robot that anyone can use , whether you're eight or 80 .	所以 , 我們真的想要建造一個人可以使用的機器人 , 不論你是八、八、八十歲 。
and as it turns out , that's a really hard problem , because you have to build a small , portable robot that's not only really affordable , but it has to be something that people actually want to take home and have around their kids .	結果發現 , 這是個很困難的問題 , 因為你必須建立一個小型、可攜式的機器人 , 不只能負擔得起的機器人 , 而是人們真的想要帶回家 , 並在孩子周圍 。
this robot can't be creepy or uncanny .	這種機器人無法被忽視或不可思議 。
he should be friendly and cute .	他應該是友善且可愛的 。
romo's a robot that uses a device you already know and love your iphone as his brain .	羅馬的機器人 , 你已經知道和愛你的iphone 。
and by leveraging the power of the iphone's processor , we can create a robot that is wifi enabled and computer visioncapable for 150 bucks , which is about one percent of what these kinds of robots have cost in the past .	藉由控制iphone處理器的力量 , 我們可以創造出一個可以維持一百五十美元的機器人 , 這大約有百分之一的機器人在過去的代價 。
when romo wakes up , he's in creature mode .	當羅馬上升時 , 他正處於生物模式 。
so he's actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face .	所以他實際上用了影片攝影機來追蹤我的臉 。
if i duck down , he'll follow me .	如果我倒下 , 他會跟著我 。
he's wary , so he'll keep his eyes on me .	他很勇敢 , 所以他會把眼睛留在我身上 。
if i come over here , he'll turn to follow me .	如果我來這裡 , 他會跟著我說話 。
if i come over here he's smart .	如果我來這裡 , 他很聰明 。
and if i get too close to him , he gets scared just like any other creature .	如果我太靠近他 , 他就很害怕其他生物 。
so in a lot of ways , romo is like a pet that has a mind of his own .	所以 , 很多方面來說 , 羅馬就像他自己的想法一樣 。
thanks , little guy .	謝謝 , 小傢伙 。
and if i want to explore the world uhoh , romo's tired if i want to explore the world with romo , i can actually connect him from any other ios device .	如果我想要探究世界uh , 羅馬的累積如果我想用romo來探索世界 , 我真的可以將他與其他ios設備聯繫起來 。
so here's the ipad .	這是ipad 。
and romo will actually stream video to this device .	羅馬會把影片帶到這個裝置上 。
so i can see everything that romo sees , and i get a robot'seyeview of the world .	我可以看見羅馬看到的一切 , 我得到了一個機器人的觀點 。
now this is a free app on the app store , so if any of you guys had this app on your phones , we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together .	這張圖是蘋果商店的免費應用程式 , 所以如果你們在手機上都有這個應用程式 , 我們現在可以分享機器人的控制控制權 , 一起玩遊戲 。
so i'll show you really quickly , romo actually he's streaming video , so you can see me and the entire ted audience .	所以 , 我很快地向各位展示 , 羅馬真的在播放影片 , 所以你可以看到我和整個ted觀眾 。
if i get in front of romo here .	如果我站在羅馬前面 。
and if i want to control him , i can just drive .	如果我想要控制他 , 我就可以開車 。
so i can drive him around , and i can take pictures of you .	我可以把他帶到旁邊 , 我可以拍攝你們的照片 。
i've always wanted a picture of a 1 , 500person ted audience .	我一直都想要一張1500個人ted觀眾的照片 。
so i'll snap a picture .	我會拍一張照片 。
and in the same way that you scroll through content on an ipad , i can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device .	同樣的 , 透過ipad的內容 , 我可以調整儀器上的鏡頭角 。
so there are all of you through romo's eyes .	各位都穿過羅馬的眼睛 。
and finally , because romo is an extension of me , i can express myself through his emotions .	最後 , 因為romo是我的延伸 , 我可以透過他的情緒表達自己 。
so i can go in and i can say let's make romo excited .	所以 , 我可以進去 , 我可以說 , 讓我們做romo興奮 。
but the most important thing about romo is that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive .	但最重要的是 , 我們想要創造一個完全直覺的事物 。
you do not have to teach someone how to drive romo .	你不需要教別人如何驅動romo 。
in fact , who would like to drive a robot ?	事實上 , 誰想開一個機器人 ?
thank you , scott .	謝謝 , 史考特 。
and even cooler , you actually don't have to be in the same geographic location as the robot to control him .	更酷的是 , 你其實不需要在同樣的地理位置 , 以機器人來控制他 。
so he actually streams twoway audio and video between any two smart devices .	所以 , 他實際上是兩位聰明的儀器和影片 。
so you can log in through the browser , and it's kind of like skype on wheels .	你可以透過瀏覽器運輸 , 有點像是在輪椅上 。
so we were talking before about telepresence , and this is a really cool example .	所以 , 我們在討論關於電視之前 , 這是個很酷的例子 。
you can imagine an eightyearold girl , for example , who has an iphone , and her mom buys her a robot .	你可以想像一個八歲的女孩 , 舉例來說 , 誰有iphone , 她媽媽買了她的機器人 。
that girl can take her iphone , put it on the robot , send an email to grandma , who lives on the other side of the country .	那個女孩可以帶她iphone , 把它放到機器人上 , 送一封電子郵件給祖母 , 他住在國的另一邊 。
grandma can log into that robot and play hideandgoseek with her granddaughter for fifteen minutes every single night , when otherwise she might only be able to get to see her granddaughter once or twice a year .	祖母可以登入那個機器人 , 和她祖母一起玩 , 每晚五十五分鐘 , 否則她只能看到她的祖母一次或一年兩倍 。
so those are a couple of the really cool things that romo can do today .	所以 , 這些是今天可以做些很酷的事 。
but i just want to finish by talking about something that we're working on in the future .	但我只想談談我們在未來工作的事物 。
this is actually something that one of our engineers , dom , built in a weekend .	這是我們其中一個工程師 , 一週末建造的 。
it's built on top of a google open framework called blockly .	它建在google開放式架構上 , 叫做 「 封鎖 」 。
this allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic code and create any behavior for this robot you want .	這樣你就可以開車 , 把這些區塊放到你想要的機器人上 , 創造出任何一種行為 。
you do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for romo .	你不需要知道如何為romo創造一個行為 。
and you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser , which is what you see romo doing on the left .	你可以模擬在瀏覽器裡的行為 , 也就是你在左邊看到羅馬正在做的事 。
and then if you have something you like , you can download it onto your robot and execute it in real life , run the program in real life .	若你有你喜歡的東西 , 你可以在機器人上下載它 , 在現實生活中執行它 , 在現實生活中執行這個計畫 。
and then if you have something you're proud of , you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world .	如果你有你自豪的東西 , 你可以和世界上的其他機器人分享它 。
so all of these wifi–enabled robots actually learn from each other .	所以 , 所有這些wifi的機器人其實都能從彼此學習 。
the reason we're so focused on building robots that everyone can train is that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal .	我們專注於建造機器人的原因是 , 所有人都可以訓練的原因是 , 我們認為 , 個人機器人的使用案件是個人的 。
they change from person to person .	他們從人到人身上改變 。
so we think that if you're going to have a robot in your home , that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination .	我們認為如果你在家裡有一個機器人 , 機器人應該是你自己的想像力 。
so i wish that i could tell you what the future of personal robotics looks like .	所以我希望我能告訴你們個人機器人的未來是什麼樣子 。
to be honest , i have no idea .	老實說 , 我完全不知道 。
but what we do know is that it isn't 10 years or 10 billion dollars or a large humanoid robot away .	但我們知道的是 , 不是10億美金或100億美金或大型人類機器人 。
the future of personal robotics is happening today , and it's going to depend on small , agile robots like romo and the creativity of people like yourselves .	現今 , 個人機器人的未來正在發生 , 它會仰賴小型、小型的機器人 , 例如romo , 以及像你這樣的人 。
so we can't wait to get you all robots , and we can't wait to see what you build .	所以 , 我們等不及給你所有機器人 , 我們等不及你建造什麼 。
author and activist isabel allende discusses women , creativity , the definition of feminism and , of course , passion in this talk .	作者和激進主義者 , 討論女性、創意、定義女性、女性主義 , 當然 , 也是這場演說的熱情 。
entertainment , global issues , love , parenting , storytelling , women , world cultures	娛樂、全球議題、愛、父母、說故事、女人、世界文化、世界文化 。
isabel allende tells tales of passion	伊莎貝爾說出熱情的味道 , 是關於熱情的味道 。
thank you so much . it's really scary to be here among the smartest of the smart .	非常謝謝你們 。 真的很可怕 , 在這裡是智慧最聰明的 。
i'm here to tell you a few tales of passion .	我來這裡告訴各位一些熱情 。
there's a jewish saying that i love .	有個猶太人說我喜歡的 。
what is truer than truth ? answer: the story .	什麼是真相呢 ? 答案是:故事 。
i'm a storyteller . i want to convey something that is truer than truth about our common humanity .	我是個說故事的人 。 我想說的是 , 比我們常見的人性真相的真實性 。
all stories interest me , and some haunt me until i end up writing them .	所有故事都對我感興趣 , 有些傷害我 , 直到我最後寫了他們 。
certain themes keep coming up: justice , loyalty , violence , death , political and social issues , freedom .	有些人會說:正義、忠誠、暴力、死亡、政治和社會議題、自由 。
i'm aware of the mystery around us , so i write about coincidences , premonitions , emotions , dreams , the power of nature , magic .	我意識到我們周遭的神秘 , 所以我寫了關於巧合、偏好、情感、夢想、大自然的力量 。
in the last 20 years i have published a few books , but i have lived in anonymity until february of 2006 , when i carried the olympic flag in the winter olympics in italy .	在過去的20年裡 , 我出版了幾本書 , 但我已經活在2006年2月 , 直到2006年2月 , 我在義大利奧運中帶著奧運旗 。
that made me a celebrity . now people recognize me in macy's , and my grandchildren think that i'm cool .	這讓我成為一個慶祝 。 現在 , 人們認知我 , 我祖父認為我很酷 。
allow me to tell you about my four minutes of fame .	讓我來告訴各位我四分鐘的名字 。
one of the organizers of the olympic ceremony , of the opening ceremony , called me and said that i had been selected to be one of the flagbearers .	奧林匹克的一個組織者 , 叫做 「 開放的儀式 」 , 叫我 , 說 , 我被選擇成為一個旗幟家之一 。
i replied that surely this was a case of mistaken identity because i'm as far as you can get from being an athlete .	我重覆了 , 肯定這是個錯誤認同的案例 , 因為我可以從一個運動員身上得到的 。
actually , i wasn't even sure that i could go around the stadium without a walker .	事實上 , 我甚至不確定我能在沒有行者的房間裡走進場 。
i was told that this was no laughing matter .	我被告知 , 這不是笑話 。
this would be the first time that only women would carry the olympic flag .	這將會是第一次 , 只有女人會帶著奧運旗幟 。
five women , representing five continents , and three olympic gold medal winners .	五個女人 , 代表五大洲 , 三個奧林匹克的金屬贏家 。
my first question was , naturally , what was i going to wear ?	我的第一個問題是 , 天然地 , 我要穿什麼 ?
a uniform , she said , and asked for my measurements .	一個單位 , 她說 , 請求我的測量 。
i had a vision of myself in a fluffy anorak , looking like the michelin man .	我在一個流感的理論中有一種視覺 , 看起來像米林的男人 。
by the middle of february , i found myself in turin , where enthusiastic crowds cheered when any of the 80 olympic teams was in the street .	在二月的中間 , 我發現我自己在土耳其 , 在那裡 , 當任何八十個奧林匹克隊都在街上 。
those athletes had sacrificed everything to compete in the games .	那些運動員犧牲了遊戲中競爭的一切 。
they all deserved to win , but there's the element of luck .	他們都值得贏 , 但有幸運的元素 。
a speck of snow , an inch of ice , the force of the wind , can determine the result of a race or a game .	一股雪、一英吋的冰、風力 , 可以決定種族或遊戲的結果 。
however , what matters most more than training or luck is the heart .	然而 , 最重要的是訓練或幸運是心臟 。
only a fearless and determined heart will get the gold medal .	只有一個無害且決定的心會得到金額的金額 。
it is all about passion .	重點是熱情 。
the streets of turin were covered with red posters announcing the slogan of the olympics .	土耳其的街道被紅色海報覆蓋 , 宣佈奧運的邏輯 。
passion lives here . isn't it always true ?	熱情生活在這裡 , 不是真的嗎 ?
heart is what drives us and determines our fate .	心臟驅使我們並決定我們的命運 。
that is what i need for my characters in my books: a passionate heart .	這就是我在書中所需要的角色:一個熱情的心 。
i need mavericks , dissidents , adventurers , outsiders and rebels , who ask questions , bend the rules and take risks .	我需要大眾、孤獨、冒險家、外國人、叛軍 , 他們問問題、規則和冒險 。
people like all of you in this room .	像在座的各位一樣的人 。
nice people with common sense do not make interesting characters .	享受共同感的好人 , 不是創造有趣的角色 。
they only make good former spouses .	他們只會製造好的配偶 。
in the green room of the stadium , i met the other flag bearers: three athletes , and the actresses susan sarandon and sophia loren .	在演室的綠色房間 , 我遇見了另一個旗幟熊:三位運動員 , 和索爾尼亞倫敦 。
also , two women with passionate hearts: wangari maathai , the nobel prizewinner from kenya who has planted 30 million trees . and by doing so , she has changed the soil , the weather , in some places in africa , and of course the economic conditions in many villages .	此外 , 兩位有熱情心心的婦女:威爾•馬達 , 來自肯亞的諾貝爾獎得主 , 由此 , 她改變了土壤、天氣 , 在非洲 , 當然 , 許多村落的經濟條件 。
and somaly mam , a cambodian activist who fights passionately against child prostitution .	馬上媽媽 , 一位柬埔寨的活動家 , 他對抗兒童機構的熱情 。
when she was 14 years old , her grandfather sold her to a brothel .	當她14歲時 , 她的祖父賣給她的兄弟 。
she told us of little girls raped by men who believe that having sex with a very young virgin will cure them from aids .	她告訴我們 , 小女孩被男性強暴 , 相信有性愛和很年輕的維吉文會治癒他們 。
and of brothels where children are forced to receive five , 15 clients per day , and if they rebel , they are tortured with electricity .	孩子們每天被迫接收五、十五、十五位客戶 , 如果他們反叛 , 他們就被迫被迫被強迫了 。
in the green room i received my uniform .	在綠色的房間裡 , 我收到我的單位 。
it was not the kind of outfit that i normally wear , but it was far from the michelin man suit that i had anticipated . not bad , really .	這不是我常穿的好處 , 而是從我預期的米蘭人的米西林 , 不是很糟糕的 。
i looked like a refrigerator .	我看起來像冰箱 。
but so did most of the flagbearers , except sophia loren , the universal symbol of beauty and passion .	但 , 大部分的旗幟 , 除了索菲亞•倫敦 , 美麗和熱情的普遍象徵 。
sophia is over 70 and she looks great .	蘇菲亞超過七十歲 , 她看起來很棒 。
she's sexy , slim and tall , with a deep tan .	她是性感、刺激 , 有著深度的尾巴 。
now , how can you have a deep tan and have no wrinkles ?	現在 , 你要如何有深度的尾巴 , 沒有皺紋 ?
when asked in a tv interview , " how could she look so good ? "	當電視訪談時 , 「 她怎麼看得太好 ? 」
she replied , " posture . my back is always straight , and i don't make old people's noises . "	她回答: 「 海報 。 我的背總是直直 , 我不讓老人的噪音 。 」
so , there you have some free advice from one of the most beautiful women on earth .	所以 , 你有一些免費的建議 , 來自地球上最美麗的女性 。
no grunting , no coughing , no wheezing , no talking to yourselves , no farting .	沒有抓住 , 沒有咳嗽 , 沒有頭髮 , 沒有跟自己說話 , 沒有太遠 。
well , she didn't say that exactly .	嗯 , 她沒說過這一點 。
at some point around midnight , we were summoned to the wings of the stadium , and the loudspeakers announced the olympic flag , and the music started by the way , the same music that starts here , the aida march .	今晚 , 我們總結了這場球場的翅膀 , 大聲宣佈了奧林匹克•旗幟 , 音樂始於此 , 相同的音樂開始 , 愛滋亞馬克 。
sophia loren was right in front of me she's a foot taller than i am , not counting the poofy hair .	索菲亞•洛倫在我面前 , 她比我還高 , 不算是好頭髮 。
she walked elegantly , like a giraffe on the african savannah , holding the flag on her shoulder . i jogged behind on my tiptoes holding the flag on my extended arm , so that my head was actually under the damn flag .	她很明顯地走路 , 像非洲大草原一樣 , 握著她的肩膀的旗幟 。 我在我的手臂背後抓住了旗幟 , 所以 , 我的頭其實在達爾斯旗下 。
all the cameras were , of course , on sophia .	當然 , 所有攝影機都在索菲亞 。
that was fortunate for me , because in most press photos i appear too , although often between sophia's legs .	這對我來說很幸運 , 因為在我看到的大部分的媒體照片中 , 雖然經常是蘇菲洲的腿 。
a place where most men would love to be .	大部份人會想成為一個地方 。
the best four minutes of my entire life were those in the olympic stadium .	我一生中最好的四分鐘就是奧林匹克的場所 。
my husband is offended when i say this although i have explained to him that what we do in private usually takes less than four minutes so he shouldn't take it personally .	我丈夫在說這句話雖然我向他解釋了 , 私人所做的通常要花不到四分鐘 , 讓他不該個人做這件事 。
i have all the press clippings of those four magnificent minutes , because i don't want to forget them when old age destroys my brain cells .	我有這四個偉大的時刻 , 因為我不想忘記他們 , 因為當老年破壞我的大腦細胞時 。
i want to carry in my heart forever the key word of the olympics passion .	我想帶著我的心臟 , 永遠是奧林匹克熱情的關鍵詞 。
so here's a tale of passion .	這是一種熱情的味道 。
the year is 1998 , the place is a prison camp for tutsi refugees in congo .	今年是1998年 , 那個地方是剛果的蘇聯難民營 。
by the way , 80 percent of all refugees and displaced people in the world are women and girls .	順便一提 , 世界上有80%的難民和殘疾的人是女性和女孩 。
we can call this place in congo a death camp , because those who are not killed will die of disease or starvation .	我們可以稱之為 「 剛果營 」 , 因為那些沒有殺死疾病或飢餓的人會死亡 。
the protagonists of this story are a young woman , rose mapendo , and her children .	這個故事的主角是一位年輕的女士 , 羅斯•格蘭多 , 她的孩子 。
she's pregnant and a widow .	她懷孕和一扇窗戶 。
soldiers have forced her to watch as her husband was tortured and killed .	士兵強迫她去看她的丈夫 , 被迫害 , 被殺害 。
somehow she manages to keep her seven children alive , and a few months later , she gives birth to premature twins .	不知怎麼地 , 她能讓七個孩子活下來 , 幾個月後 , 她會出生 , 來做早期的雙胞胎 。
two tiny little boys .	兩個小男孩 。
she cuts the umbilical cord with a stick , and ties it with her own hair .	她把腫瘤皮膚切割成黏著 , 用牠自己的頭髮 ,
she names the twins after the camp's commanders to gain their favor , and feeds them with black tea because her milk cannot sustain them .	她在營區的指揮後命名叫 「 雙胞胎 」 , 用黑茶餵給他們 , 因為她的牛奶無法保持它們 。
when the soldiers burst in her cell to rape her oldest daughter , she grabs hold of her and refuses to let go , even when they hold a gun to her head .	當士兵在她的細胞內埋葬在她最老的女兒 , 她抓住了她 , 拒絕放棄 , 即使他們拿著槍給她的頭 。
somehow , the family survives for 16 months , and then , by extraordinary luck , and the passionate heart of a young american man , sasha chanoff , who manages to put her in a u . s . rescue plane , rose mapendo and her nine children end up in phoenix , arizona , where they're now living and thriving .	不管怎樣 , 家庭存活了16個月 , 經過了不凡的幸運 , 一個年輕的美國人的熱情心 , 他們在美國救援飛機上 , 羅斯•格蘭多和她的九個兒童終於活在鳳凰身上 , 他們現在活著和茁壯 。
mapendo , in swahili , means great love .	地圖 , 在瓦希里 , 意思是很棒的愛 。
the protagonists of my books are strong and passionate women like rose mapendo .	我書的主角是強烈且熱情的女性 , 像是roe地圖 。
i don't make them up . there's no need for that .	我不想把它們弄出來 , 不需要這樣做 。
i look around and i see them everywhere .	我四周看 , 看到它們 。
i have worked with women and for women all my life .	我和女性和女性一起工作 。
i know them well .	我知道他們很好 。
i was born in ancient times , at the end of the world , in a patriarchal catholic and conservative family .	我出生在古時期 , 在世界末端 , 在一個專業的天主教和保守家庭 。
no wonder that by age five i was a raging feminist although the term had not reached chile yet , so nobody knew what the heck was wrong with me .	難怪 , 五歲時 , 我是個強暴的女性主義者雖然這名詞還沒到智利 , 所以沒有人知道我是錯的 。
i would soon find out that there was a high price to pay for my freedom , and for questioning the patriarchy .	我很快就發現 , 對於我自由有很高的價格 , 為了質疑 「 專利 」 。
but i was happy to pay it , because for every blow that i received , i was able to deliver two .	但我很高興要付錢 , 因為對於我收到的每一塊 , 我都能提供兩個 。
once , when my daughter paula was in her twenties , she said to me that feminism was dated , that i should move on .	一旦 , 我女兒保羅在她的二十歲時 , 她對我說 , 女權主義被約會 , 我應該繼續 。
we had a memorable fight . feminism is dated ?	我們有一對不可思議的鬥爭 。 女性主義是被約會的嗎 ?
yes , for privileged women like my daughter and all of us here today , but not for most of our sisters in the rest of the world who are still forced into premature marriage , prostitution , forced labor they have children that they don't want or they cannot feed .	是的 , 對於像我女兒一樣的特權女性 , 今天我們所有人 , 但在世界上大部分的姊妹 , 仍然強迫婚姻 , 賣淫 , 她們有她們不想要或無法餵食的孩子 。
they have no control over their bodies or their lives .	他們沒有控制他們的身體或生活 。
they have no education and no freedom .	他們沒有教育和自由 。
they are raped , beaten up and sometimes killed with impunity .	他們被強暴、被殺害 , 有時被殺害 。
for most western young women of today , being called a feminist is an insult .	今天大部分的西方年輕婦女 , 被稱為女權主義者是侮辱 。
feminism has never been sexy , but let me assure you that it never stopped me from flirting , and i have seldom suffered from lack of men .	女權主義從來沒有性愛 , 但讓我保證它永遠不會阻止我 , 讓我感到失望 , 我有缺乏男人 。
feminism is not dead , by no means .	女權主義不是死了 , 不管如何 。
it has evolved . if you don't like the term , change it , for goddess' sake .	它已經進化了 。 如果你不喜歡這個詞 , 改變它 , 改變神的樣本 。
call it aphrodite , or venus , or bimbo , or whatever you want ; the name doesn't matter , as long as we understand what it is about , and we support it .	稱之為 「 孤獨 」 , 或 「 bimbo 」 , 或任何你想要的東西 , 都不重要 , 只要我們了解它是什麼 , 我們就支持它 。
so here's another tale of passion , and this is a sad one .	這是另一種熱情的味道 , 這是一個悲傷的 。
the place is a small women's clinic in a village in bangladesh .	在孟加拉村的一個小婦女診所 。
the year is 2005 .	今年是2005年 。
jenny is a young american dental hygienist who has gone to the clinic as a volunteer during her threeweek vacation .	珍妮是一位年輕的美國牙醫醫師 , 在她三維假期間 , 一位志願者就去診所 。
she's prepared to clean teeth , but when she gets there , she finds out that there are no doctors , no dentists , and the clinic is just a hut full of flies .	她準備乾淨牙齒 , 但當她到那裡時 , 她發現沒有醫生 , 沒有牙醫 , 診所只是一場漂亮的果蠅 。
outside , there is a line of women who have waited several hours to be treated .	外面有一系列的婦女 , 等了好幾個小時才能被治療 。
the first patient is in excruciating pain because she has several rotten molars .	第一位患者是非常精確的痛苦 , 因為她有幾條旋轉的分子 。
jenny realizes that the only solution is to pull out the bad teeth .	珍妮意識到 , 唯一的解決方案就是把壞牙齒拉出來 。
she's not licensed for that ; she has never done it .	她不是這樣做 ; 她從來沒有做過 。
she risks a lot and she's terrified .	她冒了很多風險 , 她嚇壞了 。
she doesn't even have the proper instruments , but fortunately she has brought some novocaine .	她甚至沒有適當的樂器 , 但幸運的是 , 她帶了一些小說 。
jenny has a brave and passionate heart .	珍妮有勇敢和熱情心 。
she murmurs a prayer and she goes ahead with the operation .	她媽媽媽媽媽媽媽媽媽媽媽跟著手術前進 。
at the end , the relieved patient kisses her hands .	最後 , 放棄病人的雙手 。
that day the hygienist pulls out many more teeth .	那天 , 海吉主義者把更多牙齒拉出來 。
the next morning , when she comes again to the socalled clinic , her first patient is waiting for her with her husband .	第二天早上 , 當她再次到所謂的診所時 , 她的第一個病人在等著她丈夫 。
the woman's face looks like a watermelon .	女人的臉看起來像水母 。
it is so swollen that you can't even see the eyes .	你甚至看不到眼睛 。
the husband , furious , threatens to kill the american .	丈夫、憤怒、威脅要殺死美國人 。
jenny is horrified at what she has done , but then the translator explains that the patient's condition has nothing to do with the operation .	珍妮在她做的事很害怕 , 但後來翻譯者解釋 , 病人的條件是沒有關係的 。
the day before , her husband beat her up because she was not home in time to prepare dinner for him .	前一天 , 她的丈夫打敗了她 , 因為她沒有回家 , 為了為他準備晚餐 。
millions of women live like this today .	現今有數百萬女性生活在這樣的情況下 。
they are the poorest of the poor .	他們是窮人最窮的 。
although women do twothirds of the world's labor , they own less than one percent of the world's assets .	雖然女性有三分之二的勞工 , 他們擁有世界上的資產只有百分之一 。
they are paid less than men for the same work if they're paid at all , and they remain vulnerable because they have no economic independence , and they are constantly threatened by exploitation , violence and abuse .	他們的薪水較少於男性 , 如果他們付出的錢 , 且他們保持脆弱 , 因為他們沒有經濟獨立 , 他們會不斷威脅 , 被剝奪、暴力和虐待 。
it is a fact that giving women education , work , the ability to control their own income , inherit and own property , benefits the society .	這個事實是 , 給予女性教育、工作、控制他們的收入、自私、自己的財產、受益社會的能力 。
if a woman is empowered , her children and her family will be better off .	如果一個女人被賦予 , 她的孩子和家人會更好 。
if families prosper , the village prospers , and eventually so does the whole country .	如果家庭專家 , 村民的教授 , 最終 , 整個國家的確是如此 。
wangari maathai goes to a village in kenya .	塔里馬利馬利在肯亞的村莊 。
she talks with the women and explains that the land is barren because they have cut and sold the trees .	她和女人說話 , 解釋 , 土地是灰色的 , 因為他們被砍掉 , 賣掉樹 。
she gets the women to plant new trees and water them , drop by drop .	她得到了女性來種植新的樹和水 , 下降了 。
in a matter of five or six years , they have a forest , the soil is enriched , and the village is saved .	在五年或六年裡 , 他們有森林 , 土壤被強化了 , 村莊被拯救了 。
the poorest and most backward societies are always those that put women down .	最貧窮、最後面的社會總是把女性放下去 。
yet this obvious truth is ignored by governments and also by philanthropy .	但這很明顯的真理被政府忽略 , 也被慈善事業所忽視 。
for every dollar given to a women's program , 20 dollars are given to men's programs .	每一美元給婦女專案 , 20美金給男性的專案 。
women are 51 percent of humankind .	女性是百分之五十一的人 。
empowering them will change everything more than technology and design and entertainment .	賦予他們能改變所有東西 , 比科技和設計和娛樂 。
i can promise you that women working together linked , informed and educated can bring peace and prosperity to this forsaken planet .	我可以向各位保證 , 女性一起合作 , 聯繫和教育 , 可以將和平和繁榮帶給這個星球 。
in any war today , most of the casualties are civilians , mainly women and children . they are collateral damage .	在任何戰爭中 , 大部分的習慣都是平民 , 主要是婦女和孩子 。 他們是冷漠的傷害 。
men run the world , and look at the mess we have .	男人逃離世界 , 看看我們有的混亂 。
what kind of world do we want ?	我們想要什麼樣的世界 ?
this is a fundamental question that most of us are asking .	這是我們大部分人都在問的基本問題 。
does it make sense to participate in the existing world order ?	能否參與現有的世界秩序嗎 ?
we want a world where life is preserved and the quality of life is enriched for everybody , not only for the privileged .	我們想要一個世界 , 生命是保存和生活品質的 , 對每個人來說 , 不僅僅是特權 。
in january i saw an exhibit of fernando botero's paintings at the uc berkeley library .	在一月 , 我看到了佛羅•波里奧的畫作在柏克萊圖書館的展覽 。
no museum or gallery in the united states , except for the new york gallery that carries botero's work , has dared to show the paintings because the theme is the abu ghraib prison .	美國沒有博物館或gallery , 除了紐約galry的作品 , 可是criceo的作品 , 卻敢展示這幅畫 , 因為這個主題是abuhraib監獄 。
they are huge paintings of torture and abuse of power , in the voluminous botero style .	它們是巨大的細節和濫用權力的大幅畫 , 在大量的瓶子裡 。
i have not been able to get those images out of my mind or my heart .	我沒有辦法把這些影像從我的腦中得到 。
what i fear most is power with impunity .	我最害怕的是有責任的力量 。
i fear abuse of power , and the power to abuse .	我害怕權力濫用 , 且濫用權力 。
in our species , the alpha males define reality , and force the rest of the pack to accept that reality and follow the rules .	在我們的物種中 , 雄性雄性定義現實 , 迫使其餘的背景接受現實和遵守規則 。
the rules change all the time , but they always benefit them , and in this case , the trickledown effect , which does not work in economics , works perfectly .	規則一直都改變 , 但他們總是受益 , 在這個案例中 , 驚人的效應 , 沒有在經濟上運作 , 完美地運作 。
abuse trickles down from the top of the ladder to the bottom .	虐待障礙從拉德的頂端到底部 。
women and children , especially the poor , are at the bottom .	女人和孩子 , 尤其是窮人 , 在底部 。
even the most destitute of men have someone they can abuse a woman or a child .	即使是最絕望的男人 , 她們能虐待一個女人或小孩 。
i'm fed up with the power that a few exert over the many through gender , income , race , and class .	我對許多性別、收入、和階級的權力有著較少的權力 。
i think that the time is ripe to make fundamental changes in our civilization .	我認為 , 時間在我們的文明中做出基本的改變 。
but for real change , we need feminine energy in the management of the world .	但對於真正的改變 , 我們需要女性的能源 。
we need a critical number of women in positions of power , and we need to nurture the feminine energy in men .	我們需要一個關鍵的女性 , 在權力的位置 , 我們需要培養女性的能量 。
i'm talking about men with young minds , of course .	我在談的是年輕的腦袋 。
old guys are hopeless ; we have to wait for them to die off .	老年人是無希望的 ; 我們得要等他們死去 。
yes , i would love to have sophia loren's long legs and legendary breasts .	沒錯 , 我很喜歡有索菲利亞的長腿和法律的乳房 。
but given a choice , i would rather have the warrior hearts of wangari maathai , somaly mam , jenny and rose mapendo .	但 , 有一個選擇 , 我寧願有了大麻的戰士心 , 湯瑪麗瑪麗 , 珍妮和羅斯地圖 。
i want to make this world good .	我想讓這個世界好 。
not better , but to make it good .	不好 , 但要讓它變得好 。
why not ? it is possible . look around in this room all this knowledge , energy , talent and technology .	為何不 ? 看看這間房間裡的知識、能源、智慧和科技 。
let's get off our fannies , roll up our sleeves and get to work , passionately , in creating an almost perfect world .	咱們來脫離我們的寶寶 , 滾起我們的袖子 , 去工作 , 熱情地 , 創造一個幾乎完美的世界 。
every day , in a city the size of london , 30 million meals are served . but where does all the food come from ? architect carolyn steel discusses the daily miracle of feeding a city , and shows how ancient food routes shaped the modern world .	每天 , 在倫敦大小的城市中 , 三千萬個餐廳被服務了 。 但所有食物都來自哪裡 ? 建築石油的奇蹟指出 , 每天的餵養一個城市 , 展現古老的食物路是如何塑造現代世界的 。
cities , culture , food , global issues	城市、文化、食物、全球議題、全球議題 。
carolyn steel: how food shapes our cities	卡林林爾:食物如何塑造我們的城市 , 如何塑造我們的城市 。
how do you feed a city ?	你要如何餵飽一個城市 ?
it's one of the great questions of our time .	這是我們當時最偉大的問題之一 。
yet it's one that's rarely asked .	但很少被問到 。
we take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant , or indeed into this theater's foyer in about an hour's time , there is going to be food there waiting for us , having magically come from somewhere .	我們把它放進一間店或餐廳裡 , 還是在一小時內 , 大約一小時內 , 會有食物 , 等待我們 , 有魔法從某處來 。
but when you think that every day for a city the size of london , enough food has to be produced , transported , bought and sold , cooked , eaten , disposed of , and that something similar has to happen every day for every city on earth , it's remarkable that cities get fed at all .	但當你認為 , 每一天 , 倫敦大小的城市 , 足夠的食物要被生產、運送、買賣、吃飯、吃掉、吃掉 , 每一天都能發生 , 都市的每一大城市都能得到驚人的食物 。
we live in places like this as if they're the most natural things in the world , forgetting that because we're animals and that we need to eat , we're actually as dependent on the natural world as our ancient ancestors were .	我們生活在這樣的地方 , 如同他們是世界上最自然的事物 , 因為我們是動物 , 我們需要吃 , 我們其實是依賴自然世界的依賴我們的古祖先 。
and as more of us move into cities , more of that natural world is being transformed into extraordinary landscapes like the one behind me it's soybean fields in mato grosso in brazil in order to feed us .	隨著我們更多人搬進城市 , 自然世界被轉化為非凡的地景 , 像我背後的那一塊 , 它在巴西的曼德羅西地區 , 為了餵飽我們 。
these are extraordinary landscapes , but few of us ever get to see them .	這些是非凡的景觀 , 但我們少數人能看到它們 。
and increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either .	越來越多這些景觀 , 不僅僅是餵飽我們 。
as more of us move into cities , more of us are eating meat , so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals .	隨著我們更多人搬到城市 , 更多人吃肉 , 所以 , 全球有三分之一的農作物現在已經被餵養到動物 , 而不是人類的動物 。
and given that it takes three times as much grain actually ten times as much grain to feed a human if it's passed through an animal first , that's not a very efficient way of feeding us .	因爲它需要花了三倍的穀物 , 才能餵飽人類 , 如果它是通過一隻動物的第一種 , 那不是非常有效率的餵養我們 。
and it's an escalating problem too .	這也是一個令人困惑的問題 。
by 2050 , it's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities .	到了2050年 , 估計我們居住在城市的兩倍 。
and it's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed .	它也估計 , 將有兩倍的肉和鳥類消耗 。
so meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand .	所以 , 肉和都市主義在手上騎手 。
and that's going to pose an enormous problem .	這將會造成巨大的問題 。
six billion hungry carnivores to feed , by 2050 .	到了2050年 , 六十億的飢餓屍體來餵食 。
that's a big problem . and actually if we carry on as we are , it's a problem we're very unlikely to be able to solve .	這是個大問題 , 實際上 , 如果我們帶著我們 , 我們很有可能解決這個問題 。
nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land .	九十萬英畝的雨林每年都失去了新的原住地 。
although at the same time we're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion .	雖然在同一時間 , 我們也失去了平等的存在量 , 以致於鹽化和排放 。
we're very hungry for fossil fuels too .	我們對化石燃料也非常飢餓 。
it takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the west .	大約需要10個卡路里來製造我們在西方消耗的食物 。
and even though there is food that we are producing at great cost , we don't actually value it .	儘管我們在偉大的成本中有食物 , 我們其實不珍惜它 。
half the food produced in the usa is currently thrown away .	美國有一半的糧食已經消失了 。
and to end all of this , at the end of this long process , we're not even managing to feed the planet properly .	最後 , 在這個長期的過程結束 , 我們甚至沒有適合適合餵飽地球的糧食 。
a billion of us are obese , while a further billion starve .	我們有十億人肥胖 , 同時有十億顆恆星 。
none of it makes very much sense .	沒有任何東西都很合理 。
and when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations , it's a grim picture .	當你認為 , 80%的全球貿易現在是僅僅僅5個跨國企業 , 它是一張最悲慘的照片 。
as we're moving into cities , the world is also embracing a western diet .	當我們進入城市時 , 世界也在擁抱西方的飲食 。
and if we look to the future , it's an unsustainable diet .	如果我們看看未來 , 它是不穩定的飲食 。
so how did we get here ?	那麼 , 我們怎麼來到這裡 ?
and more importantly , what are we going to do about it ?	更重要的是 , 我們要怎麼做呢 ?
well , to answer the slightly easier question first , about 10 , 000 years ago , i would say , is the beginning of this process in the ancient near east , known as the fertile crescent .	嗯 , 先稍微簡單的問題 , 大約一萬年前 , 我會說 , 這個過程在古老的東邊 , 所謂的肥料 。
because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .	因為 , 如你所見 , 它是近期的形狀 。
and it was also fertile .	這也是肥料 。
and it was here , about 10 , 000 years ago , that two extraordinary inventions , agriculture and urbanism , happened roughly in the same place and at the same time .	大約一萬年前 , 這裡有兩萬個非凡的發明 , 農業和都市主義 , 發生在同一個地方 , 同時也發生了 。
this is no accident , because agriculture and cities are bound together . they need each other .	這不是意外的 , 因為農業和城市是有限的 , 他們需要彼此的 。
because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements .	因為它發現了我們古老祖先第一次產生食物來源 , 足以支撐永久的地位 。
and if we look at what those settlements were like , we see they were compact .	如果我們看看這些地方是什麼樣子 , 我們看到它們是相對的 。
they were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at ur , that were , in fact , effectively , spiritualized , central food distribution centers .	他們被生產的農場包圍 , 被大型寺廟所主導 , 例如這個 , 實際上 , 事實上 , 精神化、中央食物分配中心 。
because it was the temples that organized the harvest , gathered in the grain , offered it to the gods , and then offered the grain that the gods didn't eat back to the people .	因為它是組織了收穫的寺廟 , 聚集在穀物上 , 給上帝 , 然後提供了神的穀物 , 給予神不吃的人民 。
so , if you like , the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them .	所以 , 如果你想 , 整個城市的靈性和身體生活都由穀物和樹木所佔據 。
and in fact , that's true of every ancient city .	事實上 , 每個古代城市的確如此 。
but of course not all of them were that small .	但當然不是所有人都很小 。
famously , rome had about a million citizens by the first century a . d .	一世紀初 , 羅馬有大約一百萬公民 。
so how did a city like this feed itself ?	所以 , 像這樣的城市是怎麼樣的 ?
the answer is what i call " ancient food miles . "	答案是我所謂的 「 古老食物哩 」 。
basically , rome had access to the sea , which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away .	基本上 , 羅馬接觸到海 , 讓它可以從非常遙遠的距離運動食物 。
this is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world , because it was very difficult to transport food over roads , which were rough .	這是在古代世界中唯一能做到的唯一方法 , 因為要把食物運送到路上 , 路上是非常困難的 。
and the food obviously went off very quickly .	很明顯地 , 食物很快就發生了 。
so rome effectively waged war on places like carthage and egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves .	所以 , 羅馬有效地在像照顧和埃及的地方寫下戰爭 , 只能在他們的穀物儲存中得到它的尾巴 。
and , in fact , you could say that the expansion of the empire was really sort of one long , drawn out militarized shopping spree , really .	事實上 , 你可以說 , 帝國的擴張是很長的 , 引起軍事購物的速度 , 真的 。
in fact i love the fact , i just have to mention this: rome in fact used to import oysters from london , at one stage . i think that's extraordinary .	事實上 , 我很喜歡這個事實 , 我只需要提到:羅馬在倫敦的摩西斯特 , 在一個階段 , 我覺得這很不尋常 。
so rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite .	羅馬的形狀 , 透過它的蘋果來形塑它 。
but the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the preindustrial world .	但有趣的是 , 在工業界也發生了另一件事情 。
if we look at a map of london in the 17th century , we can see that its grain , which is coming in from the thames , along the bottom of this map .	如果我們看看17世紀的倫敦地圖 , 我們可以看到它的穀物 , 來自thames , 在這張地圖的底部 。
so the grain markets were to the south of the city .	所以 , 穀物市場到城市南部 。
and the roads leading up from them to cheapside , which was the main market , were also grain markets .	道路從他們到便宜 , 到廉價 , 這是主要的市場 , 也是有穀物的市場 。
and if you look at the name of one of those streets , bread street , you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago .	如果你看那些街道的名字 , 麵包街 , 你就可以知道三百年前發生了什麼事 。
and the same of course was true for fish .	當然 , 對魚而言也是如此 。
fish was , of course , coming in by river as well . same thing .	當然 , 魚也來自河流 。
and of course billingsgate , famously , was london's fish market , operating onsite here until the mid1980s .	當然 , billsgate , 是倫敦的魚市場 , 直到1980年代中期中期 。
which is extraordinary , really , when you think about it .	很不凡 , 當你想到它時 , 這真是太棒了 。
everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port .	其他的所有人都在移動手機旁邊 , 看起來像磚塊 , 有點像魚類 , 在葡萄牙發生 。
this is another thing about food in cities: once its roots into the city are established , they very rarely move .	這是關於城市的食物的另一件事:一旦它根根部落到城市中 , 它們很少移動 。
meat is a very different story because , of course , animals could walk into the city .	肉是非常不同的故事 , 因為 , 動物可以走進城市 。
so much of london's meat was coming from the northwest , from scotland and wales .	倫敦的肉來自北極 , 來自蘇格蘭和威爾蘭 。
so it was coming in , and arriving at the city at the northwest , which is why smithfield , london's very famous meat market , was located up there .	所以 , 到達北方的城市 , 到達北方的城市 , 這就是為什麼密西斯菲爾德 , 倫敦非常著名的肉市場 。
poultry was coming in from east anglia and so on , to the northeast .	農業從東角來 , 到東北部 。
i feel a bit like a weather woman doing this . anyway , and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes .	我感覺有點像天氣女人這樣做 。 無論如何 , 鳥會用牠們的腳來保護牠們的腳趾 。
and then when they hit the eastern end of cheapside , that's where they were sold , which is why it's called poultry .	接著 , 當他們撞到便宜的東端時 , 這就是他們賣的原因 , 這就是為什麼它被稱為 「 文化 」 。
and , in fact , if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age , you can trace food coming in to it .	事實上 , 如果你看看任何城市在工業時代建造的地圖 , 你可以把食物帶到它上來 。
you can actually see how it was physically shaped by food , both by reading the names of the streets , which give you a lot of clues .	你可以看到它是如何被食物所形塑的 , 透過閱讀街道的名字 , 讓你有許多線索 。
friday street , in a previous life , is where you went to buy your fish on a friday .	星期五的街道 , 在過去的人生中 , 你在星期五買了魚 。
but also you have to imagine it full of food .	但你也得想像它充滿了食物 。
because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold .	因為街道和公共空間是唯一能買的地方 。
and if we look at an image of smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from .	如果我們在1830年看一幅smithfield的影像 , 你可以看到 , 在像這樣的城市中 , 你的食物從哪裡來是非常困難的 。
in fact , if you were having sunday lunch , the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier .	事實上 , 如果你在星期五午餐時 , 機會就在你的窗外或在你的窗外打破 , 大約三天前 。
so this was obviously an organic city , part of an organic cycle .	這很顯然是一個有機的城市 , 其中一部分是有機循環 。
and then 10 years later everything changed .	十年後 , 一切都改變了 。
this is an image of the great western in 1840 .	這是1840年的偉大西方的照片 。
and as you can see , some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep .	如你所見 , 有些最早的火車乘客是豬和羊 。
so all of a sudden , these animals are no longer walking into market .	突然間 , 這些動物不再走進市場 。
they're being slaughtered out of sight and mind , somewhere in the countryside .	他們被拒絕了視覺和思想 , 在一個國家的某個地方 。
and they're coming into the city by rail .	他們是從鐵達來的城市 。
and this changes everything .	這改變了一切 。
to start off with , it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities , really any size and shape , in any place .	首先 , 它是有可能的 , 要是第一次成長城市 , 真正的大小和形狀 , 在任何地方 。
cities used to be constrained by geography ; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means .	以前 , 城市曾經被地理所限制 ; 他們以前必須透過非常困難的實體體來取得食物 。
all of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography .	突然間 , 他們的確是從地理上開始的 。
and as you can see from these maps of london , in the 90 years after the trains came , it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot , and so on , to a large splurge , that would be very , very difficult to feed with anybody on foot , either animals or people .	如你所見 , 從倫敦的這些地圖中看到 , 在火車的90年後 , 它從一個小小的鳥身上餵食 , 很容易被動物吃掉 , 所以 , 到一個大的蜘蛛 , 很難餵飽任何人在腳上 , 無論是動物或人 。
and of course that was just the beginning . after the trains came cars , and really this marks the end of this process .	當然 , 這只是一開始 。 火車來到車後 , 真的是這個過程的終點 。
it's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all .	它是整個城市的最終融合 , 來自任何與大自然的關係 。
and this is the kind of city that's devoid of smell , devoid of mess , certainly devoid of people , because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape .	這種城市是聞聞聞的味道 , 絕對是人 , 因為沒有人會想在這樣的地景上走路 。
in fact , what they did to get food was they got in their cars , drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts , came back with a week's worth of shopping , and wondered what on earth to do with it .	事實上 , 他們所做的是把食物帶到車子裡 , 帶到一個盒子裡 , 帶著一週的購物 , 回來了 , 想著地球上怎麼做 。
and this really is the moment when our relationship , both with food and cities , changes completely .	這真的是當我們和食物和城市之間的關係 , 完全改變了 。
here we have food that used to be the center , the social core of the city at the periphery .	這裡 , 我們有食物可以成為中心 , 城市的社交核心 。
it used to be a social event , buying and selling food .	它曾經是社交活動 , 購買和賣食物 。
we used to cook ; now we just add water , or a little bit of an egg if you're making a cake or something .	我們曾經煮飯 , 現在我們只加水 , 或有點蛋 , 如果你在做蛋糕或一些蛋 。
we don't smell food to see if it's okay to eat .	我們不會聞到食物 , 看看是否可以吃 。
we just read the back of a label on a packet .	我們剛剛讀了一份標籤的後面 。
and we don't value food . we don't trust it .	我們不珍惜食物 , 我們不信任它 。
so instead of trusting it , we fear it .	所以 , 我們不相信它 , 我們害怕它 。
and instead of valuing it , we throw it away .	而不是評價 , 而是把它丟掉 。
one of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder .	現代的食物系統之一 , 其中一個偉大的諷刺是 , 他們讓他們承諾更容易做得更容易 。
by making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place , they've actually distanced us from our most important relationship , which is that of us and nature .	藉由讓它可以在任何地方建立城市 , 並且在我們最重要的關係中 , 我們和大自然 。
and also they've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver , that , as we've seen , are unsustainable .	此外 , 他們也讓我們依賴系統 , 只能傳遞給我們 , 如同我們所見 , 無法永續發展的系統 。
so what are we going to do about that ?	那麼我們要怎麼做呢 ?
it's not a new question .	這不是新的問題 。
500 years ago it's what thomas more was asking himself .	500年前 , 湯瑪斯更問自己 。
this is the frontispiece of his book " utopia . "	這是他的書《烏托邦》的前列 。
and it was a series of semiindependent citystates , if that sounds remotely familiar , a day's walk from one another where everyone was basically farmingmad , and grew vegetables in their back gardens , and ate communal meals together , and so on .	它是一系列的獨立城市 , 如果那聽起來很熟悉 , 一天 , 每一天 , 每個人都被養殖 , 成長了蔬菜 , 等等 。
and i think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of utopia , even though more never framed it that way .	我想你可以爭論食物是烏托邦的基本秩序原則 , 儘管更多人從來沒有這樣做 。
and here is another very famous " utopian " vision , that of ebenezer howard , " the garden city . "	這裡還有一個非常有名的 「 烏托邦 」 視覺 , 伊貝尼斯•霍華 , 《花園城市》 。
same idea: series of semiindependent citystates , little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around , joined to one another by railway .	同樣的點子:一系列的獨立城市 , 一小塊大陸的小塊 , 帶著安裝的土地 , 加入另一塊鐵路 。
and again , food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision .	同樣地 , 食物可以成為他的視覺的秩序原則 。
it even got built , but nothing to do with this vision that howard had .	它甚至建構了 , 但沒有什麼關係 , 可是 , 和霍華的視覺有關 。
and that is the problem with these utopian ideas , that they are utopian .	這是這些烏托邦的想法 , 他們是烏托邦人 。
utopia was actually a word that thomas moore used deliberately .	烏托邦其實是湯瑪斯摩爾用的詞 。
it was a kind of joke , because it's got a double derivation from the greek .	這是個笑話 , 因為它是來自希臘的兩倍 。
it can either mean a good place , or no place .	不論是好的地方 , 還是沒有地方 。
because it's an ideal . it's an imaginary thing . we can't have it .	因為它是理想的 , 這是一種想像力的東西 , 我們無法擁有它 。
and i think , as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling , that makes it not much use .	我想 , 身為一個概念工具 , 來思考人類dwilling的深度問題 , 讓它不太用 。
so i've come up with an alternative , which is sitopia , from the ancient greek , " sitos " for food , and " topos " for place .	所以我想出一個替代方案 , 是西亞 , 來自古希臘 , 《西班牙》、 「 食物 」 和 「 popos 」 。
i believe we already live in sitopia .	我相信我們已經活在西托邦 。
we live in a world shaped by food , and if we realize that , we can use food as a really powerful tool a conceptual tool , design tool , to shape the world differently .	我們生活在一個充滿食物的世界 , 如果我們意識到 , 我們可以把食物當作一個有力的工具 , 設計工具 , 以不同的方式形塑世界 。
so if we were to do that , what might sitopia look like ?	所以如果我們要這樣做 , 西托邦會是怎樣的 ?
well i think it looks a bit like this .	我想這看起來有點像這樣 。
i have to use this slide . it's just the look on the face of the dog .	我必須用這張投影片 , 只是看狗的臉 。
but anyway , this is it's food at the center of life , at the center of family life , being celebrated , being enjoyed , people taking time for it .	總之 , 這是生活中心的食物 , 在家庭生活中心 , 被慶祝 , 被享受 , 人們花時間去做 。
this is where food should be in our society .	這是食物應該在我們的社會中 。
but you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this .	但 , 除非你有像這樣的人 。
by the way , these can be men as well .	順便一提 , 這些都是男人 。
it's people who think about food , who think ahead , who plan , who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them .	人們會想到食物 , 想前面的 , 他的計畫 , 誰可以盯著一堆大型的拖延蔬菜 , 真的認出他們 。
we need these people . we're part of a network .	我們需要這些人 , 我們是網路的一部分 。
because without these kinds of people we can't have places like this .	因為如果沒有這些人 , 我們就不能這樣做 。
here , i deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable .	在這裡 , 我會選擇這個 , 因為這是一個人買蔬菜的男人 。
but networks , markets where food is being grown locally .	但 , 網絡 , 食物在當地成長的市場 。
it's common . it's fresh .	很常見 , 很新鮮 。
it's part of the social life of the city .	這是城市的社會生活的一部分 。
because without that , you can't have this kind of place , food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape , and is not just a zerosum commodity off in some unseen hellhole .	因為如果沒有這樣 , 你就不能有這種地方 , 當地的食物也就是土地的一部分 , 而不只是一個無限的商品 。
cows with a view .	用一個觀點來煮牛 。
steaming piles of humus .	尖叫著幽默 。
this is basically bringing the whole thing together .	基本上 , 把整個東西結合在一起 。
and this is a community project i visited recently in toronto .	這是我最近在多倫多的社區計畫 。
it's a greenhouse , where kids get told all about food and growing their own food .	這是一個溫室 , 孩子們都知道食物和生長自己的食物 。
here is a plant called kevin , or maybe it's a plant belonging to a kid called kevin . i don't know .	這裡有一個叫做kevin的植物 , 或者 , 它是種叫做kevin的孩子 。 我不知道 。
but anyway , these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important .	但 , 總之 , 這些計畫試圖將我們和大自然重新連結在一起 , 是非常重要的 。
so sitopia , for me , is really a way of seeing .	所以 , 對我來說 , 對我來說 , 是一種看待的方式 。
it's basically recognizing that sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere .	基本上 , 意識到 , 西班牙已經存在於小袋子裡 。
the trick is to join them up , to use food as a way of seeing .	技巧是加入他們 , 用食物作為一種看待的方式 。
and if we do that , we're going to stop seeing cities as big , metropolitan , unproductive blobs , like this .	如果我們這樣做 , 我們就停止看到城市 , 大到大 , 大都市 , 沒有生產力的爆炸 , 像這樣 。
we're going to see them more like this , as part of the productive , organic framework of which they are inevitably a part , symbiotically connected .	我們將更像這樣的看法 , 身為生產力、有機框架 , 他們不可避免的一部分 , 相對的連結 。
but of course , that's not a great image either , because we need not to be producing food like this anymore .	但當然 , 這也不是很棒的圖像 , 因為我們不需要再像這樣的生產食物 。
we need to be thinking more about permaculture , which is why i think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing .	我們需要思考更多關於文化的觀念 , 這就是為什麼我認為這張圖片是為了我認為我們需要做的事 。
it's a reconceptualization of the way food shapes our lives .	它是一種對食物形狀的概念化 。
the best image i know of this is from 650 years ago .	我所知道的最好的圖像是從650年前 。
it's ambrogio lorenzetti's " allegory of good government . "	它是艾布羅維多•倫維蒂的 「 良好政府的盟友 」 。
it's about the relationship between the city and the countryside .	重點是城市和國家之間的關係 。
and i think the message of this is very clear .	我認為這個訊息是非常清楚的 。
if the city looks after the country , the country will look after the city .	如果城市在全國看後 , 國家會回顧城市 。
and i want us to ask now , what would ambrogio lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today ?	我希望我們現在要問 , 如果他今天畫了這張圖片 , 該怎麼辦 ?
what would an allegory of good government look like today ?	今天好的政府會怎樣 ?
because i think it's an urgent question .	因為我認為這是個迫切的問題 。
it's one we have to ask , and we have to start answering .	這是我們必須問的 , 我們必須開始回答 。
we know we are what we eat .	我們知道我們吃的就是我們吃的 。
we need to realize that the world is also what we eat .	我們需要了解到 , 世界也是我們吃的 。
but if we take that idea , we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better .	但如果我們採取這個想法 , 我們可以用食物作為一個強大的工具來形塑世界 。
weeks from the charter for compassion launch , karen armstrong looks at religion's role in the 21st century: will its dogmas divide us ? or will it unite us for common good ? she reviews the catalysts that can drive the world's faiths to rediscover the golden rule .	從同情推出的幾個星期 , 肯亞阿拉伯•阿姆斯壯看二十一世紀的宗教角色:它的狗會將我們分裂嗎 ? 還是會讓我們很喜歡嗎 ? 她反映了世界上的信仰 , 來重新定義黃金規則 。
god , ted prize , global issues , politics , religion , tedglobal2009 , violence	上帝 , ted獎、全球議題、政治、宗教、tedglobal2009年、暴力事件、暴力 。
karen armstrong: let's revive the golden rule	karenstrong:咱們來拯救黃金規則規則 。
for years i've been feeling frustrated , because as a religious historian , i've become acutely aware of the centrality of compassion in all the major world faiths .	多年來 , 我感到挫折 , 因為身為宗教歷史學家 , 我真的意識到所有主要世界的同情心核心 。
every single one of them has evolved their own version of what's been called the golden rule .	每一個人都演化出自己的版本 , 叫做黃金規則 。
sometimes it comes in a positive version " always treat all others as you'd like to be treated yourself . "	有時 , 它會出現在正面版本上 , 「 總是對待別人 , 就像你想要治療自己一樣 。 」
and equally important is the negative version " don't do to others what you would not like them to do to you . "	同樣重要的是 , 負面版本是 「 不要對別人做你不喜歡的事 」 。
look into your own heart , discover what it is that gives you pain and then refuse , under any circumstance whatsoever , to inflict that pain on anybody else .	看看你自己的心臟 , 發現它會讓你痛苦 , 然後拒絕 , 在任何情況下 , 衝突任何人的痛苦 。
and people have emphasized the importance of compassion , not just because it sounds good , but because it works .	人們強調同情的重要性 , 不只是因為它聽起來好 , 而是因爲它有效 。
people have found that when they have implemented the golden rule as confucius said , " all day and every day , " not just a question of doing your good deed for the day and then returning to a life of greed and egotism , but to do it all day and every day , you dethrone yourself from the center of your world , put another there , and you transcend yourself .	人們發現 , 當他們把黃金規則當作混亂說: 「 每天和每一天 , 不只一個你好好的做法 , 然後回復一輩子 , 但每天都要做 , 你將自己從你世界的中心拿出來 , 將自己轉換成你自己 。
and it brings you into the presence of what's been called god , nirvana , rama , tao .	它帶著你進入所謂的 「 神 」 、nirvana、rama、tao 。
something that goes beyond what we know in our egobound existence .	除了我們在演算法的存在中所知的事物 。
but you know you'd never know it a lot of the time , that this was so central to the religious life .	但你知道你永遠不知道它 , 這對宗教生活非常重要 。
because with a few wonderful exceptions , very often when religious people come together , religious leaders come together , they're arguing about abstruse doctrines or uttering a council of hatred or inveighing against homosexuality or something of that sort .	因為有一些奇妙的例外 , 當宗教人聚集在一起時 , 宗教領袖聚集在一起 , 他們爭論抽象的劑量 , 或猶豫的仇恨 , 或對抗同性戀 , 或這種類型 。
often people don't really want to be compassionate .	通常 , 人們並不想要同情心 。
i sometimes see when i'm speaking to a congregation of religious people a sort of mutinous expression crossing their faces because people often want to be right instead .	有時 , 我會看到當我跟宗教人士說話時 , 有點像突顯他們的臉孔 , 因為人們常會想做對立 。
and that of course defeats the object of the exercise .	而那當然會破壞運動的物體 。
now why was i so grateful to ted ?	為什麼我很感激ted ?
because they took me very gently from my booklined study and brought me into the 21st century , enabling me to speak to a much , much wider audience than i could have ever conceived .	因為他們讓我很高興地從我的書籍研究帶到21世紀 , 讓我能和一個更廣泛的觀眾說話 , 比我曾經想像過的還要多 。
because i feel an urgency about this .	因為我對此感到緊急 。
if we don't manage to implement the golden rule globally , so that we treat all peoples , wherever and whoever they may be , as though they were as important as ourselves , i doubt that we'll have a viable world to hand on to the next generation .	如果我們不成功地把黃金規則實施到全球 , 所以 , 我們對所有人 , 無論他們是哪些人 , 無論他們是誰 , 我都懷疑我們有可行的世界來對下一個世代 。
the task of our time , one of the great tasks of our time , is to build a global society , as i said , where people can live together in peace .	我們時代的任務之一是建立一個全球社會 , 如我所說的 , 人們可以一起生活在和平之中 。
and the religions that should be making a major contribution are instead seen as part of the problem .	而該做出重大貢獻的宗教 , 反而被視為是問題的一部分 。
and of course it's not just religious people who believe in the golden rule .	當然 , 不只宗教人士相信金屬規則 。
this is the source of all morality , this imaginative act of empathy , putting yourself in the place of another .	這是所有道德的來源 , 這種想像力的行為 , 把自己放在另一個地方 。
and so we have a choice , it seems to me .	所以 , 我們有一個選擇 , 似乎對我來說 。
we can either go on bringing out or emphasizing the dogmatic and intolerant aspects of our faith , or we can go back to the rabbis . rabbi hillel , the older contemporary of jesus , who , when asked by a pagan to sum up the whole of jewish teaching while he stood on one leg , said , " that which is hateful to you , do not do to your neighbor .	我們能否帶出去或強調我們信仰的信仰 , 或我們可以回到拉比爾 , 阿比比比爾 , 老的耶穌 , 當他在一支猶太教學時 , 當他站在一條腿上時 , 他說: 「 這對你的鄰居來說是很討厭的 。
that is the torah and everything else is only commentary . "	這是湯瑪拉和其他的一切 , 只有評論 。 」
and the rabbis and the early fathers of the church who said that any interpretation of scripture that bred hatred and disdain was illegitimate .	教堂的早期父親 , 說 , 任何文字的詮釋 , 都被破壞了仇恨和失落 。
and we need to revive that spirit .	我們需要拯救那個精神 。
and it's not just going to happen because a spirit of love wafts us down .	不只會發生 , 因為愛的靈魂會讓我們下降 。
we have to make this happen , and we can do it with the modern communications that ted has introduced .	我們必須實現這一點 , 我們可以用現代的溝通來做 。
already i've been tremendously heartened at the response of all our partners .	我已經在我們所有夥伴的回應中被強烈的心臟關注 。
in singapore , we have a group going to use the charter to heal divisions recently that have sprung up in singaporean society , and some members of the parliament want to implement it politically .	在新加坡 , 我們有一群人 , 將使用法案來治癒 , 最近 , 在新加坡社會中 , 有些國會想要在政治上實現 。
in malaysia , there is going to be an art exhibition in which leading artists are going to be taking people , young people , and showing them that compassion also lies at the root of all art .	在馬拉西亞 , 會有一個藝術展覽 , 領導藝術家將要帶到人們、年輕人 , 展現同情心 , 展現所有藝術的根部 。
throughout europe , the muslim communities are holding events and discussions , are discussing the centrality of compassion in islam and in all faiths .	橫跨歐洲 , 穆斯林社區有活動和討論 , 正在討論伊斯蘭和所有信仰的核心核心 。
but it can't stop there . it can't stop with the launch .	但它無法停下來 , 它無法停止發射 。
religious teaching , this is where we've gone so wrong , concentrating solely on believing abstruse doctrines .	宗教教學 , 這就是我們已經錯了 , 堅信抽象的教學 。
religious teaching must always lead to action .	宗教教學一定會導致行動 。
and i intend to work on this till my dying day .	我很想在這個臨終的日子上工作 。
and i want to continue with our partners to do two things educate and stimulate compassionate thinking .	我想和我們的夥伴們一起做兩件事教育和刺激同情心思考 。
education because we've so dropped out of compassion .	教育是因為我們已經脫離同情心 。
people often think it simply means feeling sorry for somebody .	人們常認為這對某人感到抱歉 。
but of course you don't understand compassion if you're just going to think about it .	但 , 當然 , 你不了解同理心 , 如果你只是想它 。
you also have to do it .	你也必須這麼做 。
i want them to get the media involved because the media are crucial in helping to dissolve some of the stereotypical views we have of other people , which are dividing us from one another .	我希望他們能參與媒體 , 因為媒體是很重要的 , 協助分解一些我們有其他人的刻板印象 , 將我們分成彼此 。
the same applies to educators .	同樣應用於教育家 。
i'd like youth to get a sense of the dynamism , the dynamic and challenge of a compassionate lifestyle .	我希望年輕人能感受到動態、動態和挑戰同情的生活方式 。
and also see that it demands acute intelligence , not just a gooey feeling .	同時也看到 , 它需要特定的智能 , 不只是一個高興的感覺 。
i'd like to call upon scholars to explore the compassionate theme in their own and in other people's traditions .	我想打電話給學者 , 去探索他們自己的同理心 , 在別人的傳統中 , 和其他人的傳統中 。
and perhaps above all , to encourage a sensitivity about uncompassionate speaking , so that because people have this charter , whatever their beliefs or lack of them , they feel empowered to challenge uncompassionate speech , disdainful remarks from their religious leaders , their political leaders , from the captains of industry .	也許最重要的是 , 鼓勵一種對不同情的說話的敏感 , 所以 , 因爲人們有這個信念 , 不論他們都沒有信念 , 他們都被賦予挑戰不安的言論 , 從他們的宗教領袖、政治領袖、政治領袖 , 來自產業的領袖 。
because we can change the world , we have the ability .	因為我們可以改變世界 , 我們有能力 。
i would never have thought of putting the charter online .	我從來沒有想過要把圖表放在線上 。
i was still stuck in the old world of a whole bunch of boffins sitting together in a room and issuing yet another arcane statement .	我仍然被困在舊世界裡 , 一大堆的框架中 , 坐在房間裡 , 還在另一條北極的陳述中 。
and ted introduced me to a whole new way of thinking and presenting ideas .	ted介紹了我全新的思想和展示想法 。
because that is what is so wonderful about ted .	因為這就是ted的美好 。
in this room , all this expertise , if we joined it all together , we could change the world .	在這個房間裡 , 所有的專家 , 如果我們一起加入 , 我們就能改變世界 。
and of course the problems sometimes seem insuperable .	當然 , 問題有時似乎是可行的 。
but i'd just like to quote , finish at the end with a reference to a british author , an oxford author whom i don't quote very often , c . s . lewis .	但我只是想引用 , 最後最後 , 最後 , 一個英國作者 , 一位牛津作家 , 我不常引用c.lewi 。
but he wrote one thing that stuck in my mind ever since i read it when i was a schoolgirl .	但他寫了一件事 , 自從我讀書時 , 一直在我還是學術時 。
it's in his book " the four loves . "	他的書是《四個愛》 。
he said that he distinguished between erotic love , when two people gaze , spellbound , into each other's eyes .	他說 , 他在愛情之間分散 , 當兩個人聚集、拼字 , 到彼此的眼睛 。
and then he compared that to friendship , when two people stand side by side , as it were , shoulder to shoulder , with their eyes fixed on a common goal .	然後他跟朋友相比 , 當兩個人站在旁邊時 , 肩膀肩膀 , 眼睛在共通目標上固定 。
we don't have to fall in love with each other , but we can become friends .	我們不需要互相愛 , 但我們能成為朋友 。
and i am convinced .	我說服了 。
i felt it very strongly during our little deliberations at vevey , that when people of all different persuasions come together , working side by side for a common goal , differences melt away .	我感覺到在我們的調查中非常強烈 , 當所有不同的說法的人聚在一起時 , 一起工作 , 一邊是常見的目標 , 差異會消失 。
and we learn amity .	我們學到了正義 。
and we learn to live together and to get to know one another .	我們學會一起生活 , 去認識彼此 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝大家 。
david macaulay relives the winding and sometimes surreal journey toward the completion of rome antics , his illustrated homage to the historic city .	大衛•馬卡爾在風中 , 有時會在羅馬論壇的競爭中 , 展現了他對歷史的居民 。
macarthur grant , art , arts , book , cities , communication , culture , design , entertainment , humor , storytelling	數學級級、藝術、藝術、城市、城市、文化、設計、娛樂、幽默、說故事 , 說故事、故事、藝術、藝術、藝術、書籍、城市、城市、城市、文化、娛樂、娛樂、娛樂、娛樂、幽默 , 說故事
i draw to better understand things .	我畫了更好的理解事物 。
sometimes i make a lot of drawings and i still don't understand what it is i'm drawing .	有時候我做了很多繪畫 , 我仍然不知道我畫的是什麼 。
those of you who are comfortable with digital stuff and even smug about that relationship might be amused to know that the guy who is best known for " the way things work , " while preparing for part of a panel for called understanding , spent two days trying to get his laptop to communicate with his new cd burner .	那些與數位化的東西感到舒服的人 , 甚至是關於那關係的可能是要知道 「 事情運作 」 這個傢伙最好的人 , 為一個叫做 「 理解 」 的一部分 , 花了兩天時間讓他的筆記型電腦和他的新cd負擔交流 。
who knew about extension managers ?	誰知道延伸經理 ?
i've always managed my own extensions so it never even occurred to me to read the instructions , but i did finally figure it out . i had to figure it out , because along with the invitation came the frightening reminder that there would be no projector , so bringing those carousels would no longer be necessary but some alternate form of communication would .	我一直在管理我自己的延伸 , 這樣我就從來沒有發生過 , 去讀指令 , 但我終於想出來 。 我必須想出來 , 因為邀請是沒有專業者 , 所以 , 把這些卡通送到沒有必要的情況下 , 但有些其他的溝通形式會不會是必要的 。
now , i could talk about something that i'm known for , something that would be particularly appropriate for many of the more technically minded people here , or i could talk about something i really care about .	現在 , 我可以談我所知的事物 , 尤其是對許多技術上更具體的人來說 , 或者 , 我可以談論我真正關心的東西 。
i decided to go with the latter .	我決定要和洛杉磯一起去 。
i'm going to talk about rome .	我要談羅馬 。
now , why would i care about rome , particularly ?	為什麼我會關心羅馬 , 尤其是羅馬 ?
well , i went to rhode island school of design in the second half of the '60s to study architecture .	嗯 , 我去了rhode島學校 , 在六零年代第二半的設計 , 去研究建築 。
i was lucky enough to spend my last year , my fifth year , in rome as a student . it changed my life .	我很幸運 , 去年 , 我的第五年 , 在羅馬 , 身為一位學生 , 改變了我的人生 。
not the least reason was the fact that i had spent those first four years living at home , driving into risd everyday , driving back .	不是因為我第一次在家裡花了四年的時間 , 開車到星期一 , 開車回家 。
i missed the '60s . i read about them ; i understand they were pretty interesting . i missed them , but i did spend that extraordinary year in rome , and it's a place that is never far from my mind .	我錯過了60年代 。 我讀了他們 ; 我知道他們很有趣 。 我錯過他們 , 但我在羅馬花了那一年 , 很不可思議 , 一個從我腦海中從來不遠的地方 。
so , whenever given an opportunity , i try to do something in it or with it or for it .	所以 , 每當有機會時 , 我都試著做一些東西 , 或用它來做 。
i also make drawings to help people understand things .	我也畫畫來幫助人們了解事物 。
things that i want them to believe i understand .	我希望他們能相信我了解的事物 。
and that's what i do as an illustrator , that's my job .	這就是我作為一個例子 , 這是我的工作 。
so , i'm going to show you some pictures of rome .	所以 , 我要給你們看一些羅馬的照片 。
i've made a lot of drawings of rome over the years .	幾年來 , 我做了很多羅馬的畫作 。
these are just drawings of rome . i get back as often as possible i need to .	這些都是羅馬的畫作 。 我常常回想我需要的 。
all different materials , all different styles , all different times , drawings from sketchbooks looking at the details of rome .	各式各樣的材料 , 各式各樣的風格 , 各式各樣的風格 , 用不同的方式來繪製羅馬的細節 。
part of the reason i'm showing you these is that it sort of helps illustrate this process i go through of trying to figure out what it is i feel about rome and why i feel it .	我展示的原因之一是 , 它可以幫助我描述這個過程 , 來找出我對羅馬的感覺是什麼 , 以及為什麼我會感受到它 。
these are sketches of some of the little details .	這些是一些小細節的草圖 。
rome is a city full of surprises .	羅馬是城市充滿驚喜的城市 。
i mean , we're talking about unusual perspectives , we're talking about narrow little winding streets that suddenly open into vast , sundrenched piazzas never , though , piazzas that are not humanly scaled .	我的意思是 , 我們談的是不尋常的觀點 , 我們在談到最狹隘的風力街道 , 突然間開放到廣大的 , 陽光的帕茲薩 , 從來沒有人性擴大 。
part of the reason for that is the fact that they grew up organically .	原因之一是他們有機成長的事實 。
that amazing juxtaposition of old and new , the bits of light that come down between the buildings that sort of create a map that's traveling above your head of usually blue especially in the summer compared to the map that you would normally expect to see of conventional streets .	這種驚人的混亂 , 和新新的點 , 會在建築物中間 , 創造出一張地圖 , 通常是藍色的 , 特別是在夏天 , 你通常會期望看到傳統街道的地圖 。
and i began to think about how i could communicate this in book form .	我開始思考我如何在書架上溝通它 。
how could i share my sense of rome , my understanding of rome ?	我要如何分享我的羅馬 , 我對羅馬的了解 ?
and i'm going to show you a bunch of dead ends , basically .	基本上 , 我要給你們看一堆死掉的尾端 。
the primary reason for all these dead ends is when if you're not quite sure where you're going , you're certainly not going to get there with any kind of efficiency .	最主要的原因是 , 如果你不確定你在哪裡去哪裡 , 你肯定不會得到任何效率 。
here's a little map . and i thought of maps at the beginning ; maybe i should just try and do a little atlas of my favorite streets and connections in rome .	這是一張小地圖 。 我從一開始就想著地圖 , 也許我應該試著做一個我最喜歡的街道 , 以及在羅馬的連結 。
and here's a line of text that actually evolves from the exhaust of a scooter zipping across the page .	這是一系列的文字 , 其實是從一個分數散的圖片中演化出來的 。
here that same line of text wraps around a fountain in an illustration that can be turned upside down and read both ways .	在這裡 , 同樣的文字會在一座山上繞著一座山脈 , 可以被轉移 , 閱讀兩種方式 。
maybe that line of text could be a story to help give some human aspect to this .	也許那條文字可能是一個故事 , 來幫助大家提供一些人類的尊重 。
maybe i should get away from this map completely , and really be honest about wanting to show you my favorite bits and pieces of rome and simply kick a soccer ball in the air which happens in so many of the squares in the city and let it bounce off of things . and i'll simply explain what each of those things is that the soccer ball hits .	也許我應該完全從這張地圖中走出去 , 真的很誠實地 , 要向各位展示我最喜歡的一小塊屋頂 , 只是在空中拍下一顆足球 , 讓它在城市中爆炸了 。 我會簡單解釋這些東西是什麼 。
that seemed like a sort of a cheap shot .	這似乎有點像個便宜的拍攝 。
but even though i just started this presentation , this is not the first thing that i tried to do and i was getting sort of desperate .	但雖然我剛開始這場演說 , 這不是我試圖做的第一件事 , 我感到很絕望 。
eventually , i realized that i had really no content that i could count on , so i decided to move towards packaging .	最後 , 我意識到 , 我完全沒有內容 , 所以我決定要去包裝包裝 。
i mean , it seems to work for a lot of things .	我的意思是 , 這對很多東西來說是有用的 。
so i thought a little box set of four small books might do the trick .	所以我想一個小小的盒子 , 大概有四個小小的書可以做這部戲 。
but one of the ideas that emerged from some of those sketches was the notion of traveling through rome in different vehicles at different speeds in order to show the different aspects of rome .	但 , 其中一個想法來自一些圖像的概念 , 就是在不同的速度中旅行的概念 , 在不同的速度中 , 以展示羅馬的不同面向 。
sort of an overview of rome and the plan that you might see from a dirigible .	有點像是羅馬和你所看到的計畫 。
quick snapshots of things you might see from a speeding motor scooter , and very slow walking through rome , you might be able to study in more detail some of the wonderful surfaces and whatnot that you come across .	很快地 , 你可能會從一個快速的摩托計劃中看到的東西 , 很慢地在羅馬走路 , 你可能可以更細節地研究一些美妙的表面 , 以及你所經歷的不過 。
anyways , i went back to the dirigible notion .	總之 , 我回到神秘的觀點 。
went to alberto santosdumont .	去了阿爾伯托•桑德森 。
found one of his dirigibles that had enough dimensions so i could actually use it as a scale that i would then juxtapose with some of the things in rome .	找到他有夠多維度的潛水艇之一 , 讓我可以把它當作一個比例 , 我會用羅馬的一些東西來判斷 。
this thing would be flying over or past or be parked in front of , but it would be like having a ruler sort of travel through the pages without being a ruler .	這東西會被飛過或過去 , 或被停在前面 , 但它就像是有規則的旅行 , 不用是規則的 。
not that you know how long number 11 actually is , but you would be able to compare number 11 against the pantheon with number 11 against the baths of caracalla , and so on and so forth . if you were interested .	不是你知道十一號真的有多久 , 但你能把11號比起來對抗卡拉河的浴室 , 等等 , 如果你有興趣 。
this is beatrix . she has a dog named ajax , she has purchased a dirigible a small dirigible she's assembling the structure , ajax is sniffing for holes in the balloon before they set off .	這是beatrix , 她有一個叫jaax的狗 , 她把一個小小的潛水艇組成 , ajax在他們打破氣球的洞 。
she launches this thing above the spanish steps and sets off for an aerial tour of the city .	她在西班牙的步驟上發射了這個東西 , 把這個東西放到城市中 。
over the spanish steps we go .	在西班牙的步驟中 。
a nice way to show that river , that stream sort of pouring down the hill .	一個很棒的方式來展示河流 , 有點像是在山丘下游 。
unfortunately , just across the road from it or quite close by is the column of marcus aurelius , and the diameter of the dirigible makes an impression , as you can see , as she starts trying to read the story that spirals around the column of marcus aurelius gets a little too close , nudges it .	不幸的是 , 在路上 , 或很接近的是馬克斯•奧林的柱子 , 神秘的直徑使得了印象 , 如你所見 , 當她開始嘗試在馬克斯的柱子周圍的旋轉時 , 就會變得太近 。
this gives me a chance to suggest to you the structure of the column of marcus aurelius , which is really no more than a pile of quarters high thick quarters . over the piazza of saint ignacio , completely ruining the symmetry , but that aside a spectacular place to visit .	這給了我一個機會 , 建議馬克斯•奧林斯的柱子結構 , 比一堆高厚的平方公尺高 。 在西部的偏離中 , 完全顛覆了對稱性 , 但 , 除了一個很棒的地方 。
a spectacular framework , inside of which you see , usually , extraordinary blue sky .	一個很奇妙的框架 , 通常你所看到的 , 通常 , 很不凡的藍色天空 。
over the pantheon and the 26foot diameter oculus .	在神殿和26英尺的直徑中 。
she parks her dirigible , lowers the anchor rope and climbs down for a closer look inside .	她打開她的潛水 , 降低教徒的繩索 , 爬到更近的角落 。
the text here is right side and upside down so that you are forced to turn the book around , and you can see it from ground point of view and from her point of view looking in the hole , getting a different kind of perspective , moving you around the space . particularly appropriate in a building that can contain perfectly a sphere dimensions of the diameter being the same as the distance from the center of the floor to the center of the oculus .	這裡的文字是右邊的 , 以便你被迫把書轉身 , 你可以看到它來自地點 , 從洞的角度來看 , 帶著不同的觀點 , 移動在空間中 。 特別適合在一個建築物上 , 可以完美地控制直徑的位置 , 和中央中心的距離 。
unfortunately for her , the anchor line gets tangled around the feet of some boy scouts who are visiting the pantheon , and they are immediately yanked out and given an extraordinary but terrifying tour of some of the domes of rome , which would , from their point of view , naturally be hanging upside down .	不幸的是 , 對她來說 , 偶爾的線被綁在一些男孩的腳趾上 , 他們立刻在拜訪這個神殿 , 放棄了一場不凡的旅程 , 讓一些羅馬的主題 , 從他們的觀點開始 , 天然地被吸引了 。
they bail out as soon as they get to the top of saint ivo , that little spiral structure you see there .	當他們到山頂時 , 它們就在你所看到的那小小的脊椎結構 。
she continues on her way over piazza navona .	她繼續在她的路上 , 穿著巴西納維納 。
notices a lot of activity at the tre scalini restaurant , is reminded that it is lunchtime and she's hungry .	注意到 , 大量的威爾福餐廳的活動 , 提醒了 , 它是午餐時間 , 她很飢餓 。
they keep on motoring towards the campo de' fiori , which they soon reach . ajax the dog is put in a basket and lowered with a list of food into the marketplace , which flourishes there until about one in the afternoon , and then is completely removed and doesn't appear again until six or seven the following morning .	他們繼續推動卡門德里的費洛里 , 他們很快就去了 。 aja-ajax把狗放進籃子裡 , 用一個清單放進市場 , 直到下午 , 直到下午 , 完全被移除 , 直到凌晨六到七點 。
anyway , the pooch gets back to the dirigible with the stuff .	總之 , 聚合物會回到潛在物品上 。
unfortunately , when she goes to unwrap the prosciutto , ajax makes a lunge for it .	不幸的是 , 當她去找原始人時 , ajax會為此產生午餐 。
she's managed to save the prosciutto , but in the process she loses the tablecloth , which you can see flying away in the upper lefthand corner .	她成功拯救原始病 , 但在這個過程中 , 她失去了桌子 , 你可以看到在左上角的飛行 。
they continue without their tablecloth , looking for a place to land this thing so that they can actually have lunch .	他們沒有桌子 , 尋找一個地方 , 這樣他們就可以有午餐 。
they eventually discover a huge wall that's filled with small holes , ideal for docking a dirigible because you've got a place to tie up .	他們最終發現了一面巨大的牆 , 充滿了小洞 , 理想的 , 因為你有一個地方要站起來 。
turns out to be the exterior wall that part of it that remains of the coliseum , so they park themselves there and have a terrific lunch and have a spectacular view .	結果發現 , 那裡的外面牆是它的一部分 , 剩下的室內 , 所以他們會把自己停在那裡 , 並且有很棒的午餐 , 也有很棒的觀點 。
at the end of lunch , they untie the anchor , they set off through the baths of caracalla and over the walls of the city and then an abandoned gatehouse and decide to take one more look at the pyramid of cestius , which has this lightning rod on top .	在午餐結束時 , 他們就開始排除馬桶 , 穿越了卡拉和城市的牆壁 , 接著 , 一個被放棄的葡萄酒 , 決定再看一下cstius的金字塔 , 上面有光線在頂端 。
unfortunately , that's a problem: they get a little too close , and when you're in a dirigible you have to be very careful about spikes .	不幸的是 , 那是個問題:他們太接近了 , 當你身處一個潛水艇時 , 你得要非常小心 。
so that sort of brings her little story to a conclusion .	所以 , 這有點像是把她小故事帶到一個結論中 。
marcello , on the other hand , is sort of a lazy guy , but he's not due at work until about noon .	另一方面 , mcello , 有點像個懶惰的傢伙 , 但他不是因為工作 , 直到non 。
so , the alarm goes off and it's five to 12 or so .	所以 , 警報會下降 , 它是5到12或12 。
he gets up , leaps onto his scooter , races through the city past the church of santa maria della pace , down the alleys , through the streets that tourists may be wandering through , disturbing the quiet backstreet life of rome at every turn .	他走上去 , 跳躍到他身邊 , 走過聖馬拉雅的教堂 , 穿越遊客的街道 , 穿越穿越穿越穿越穿越衣服的背景 , 每次都會在羅馬的背景中散開 。
that speed with which he is moving , i hope i have suggested in this little image , which , again , can be turned around and read from both sides because there's text on the bottom and text on the top , one of which is upside down in this image .	他正在移動的速度 , 我希望我在這個小影像中建議 , 再一次 , 可以從兩側開始 , 閱讀 , 因為在底部和文字上 , 上面有一篇文字在這個圖片上 , 其中一個是上下方的 。
so , he keeps on moving , approaching an unsuspecting waiter who is trying to deliver two plates of linguine in a delicate white wine clam sauce to diners who are sitting at a table just outside of a restaurant in the street .	所以 , 他繼續前進 , 接近一個不尊重的服務生 , 試圖將兩隻海豹傳送到一片獨立的白酒店裡 , 他們坐在街外的餐廳外面 。
waiter catches on , but it's too late .	等待者開始 , 但太遲了 。
and marcello keeps moving in his scooter .	火星持續在他的分數中移動 。
everything he sees from this point on is slightly affected by the linguine , but keeps on moving because this guy's got a job to do .	他從這個角度看到的所有東西 , 都有點受到語言的影響 , 但繼續移動 , 因為這傢伙有一份工作來做 。
removes some scaffolding . one of the reasons rome remains the extraordinary place it is that because of scaffolding and the determination to maintain the fabric , it is a city that continues to grow and adapt to the needs of the particular time in which it finds itself , or we find it .	移除一些腳踏車 。 其中一個原因之一是 , 羅馬仍然保持了不起的位置 , 原因之一是 , 原因是 , 要維持公平的結構 , 它是一個持續成長並適應它的需求 , 或我們發現它本身 。
right through the piazza della rotonda , in front of the pantheon again wreaking havoc and finally getting to work .	通過帕薩德拉德拉•羅頓達 , 在前面 , 再次在威脅哈利克 , 終於開始工作 。
marcello , as it turns out , is the driver of the number 64 bus , and if you've been on the number 64 bus , you know that it's driven with the same kind of exuberance as marcello demonstrated on his scooter .	馬里羅 , 結果是數字64公車的駕駛 , 如果你在數字64公車上 , 你知道它的開車和火星在他的分數上展示一樣 。
and finally carletto . you see his apartment in the upper lefthand corner .	最後卡萊托 , 你看到他在左上角的公寓 。
he's looking at his table ; he's planning to propose this evening to his girlfriend of 40 years , and he wants it to be perfect .	他在看他的桌子 , 他要建議他40年的女友 , 他希望它是完美的 。
he's got candles out , he's got flowers in the middle and he's trying to figure out where to put the plates and the glasses .	他有蠟燭 , 中間有一朵花 , 他試著想出要把盤子和玻璃放到哪裡 。
but he's not happy ; something's wrong .	但他不幸運 , 什麼是錯的 。
the phone rings anyway , he's called to the palazzo .	總之 , 他打電話給palazzo 。
he saunters he saunters at a good clip , but as compared to all the traveling we've just seen , he's sauntering .	他在一個好的影片中遇見 , 但比起我們剛剛所見的旅程 , 他正在碰到的都市 。
everybody knows carletto , because he's in entertainment , actually ; he's in television .	大家都知道卡萊托 , 因為他在娛樂中 , 事實上 , 他在電視中 。
he's actually in television repair , which is why people know him .	他其實在電視復興 , 這就是為什麼人們知道他 。
so they all have his number .	所以他們都有他的數字 。
he arrives at the palazzo , arrives at the big front door .	他抵達保羅 , 抵達大門的前門 。
enters the courtyard and talks to the custodian , who tells him that there's been a disaster in the palazzo ; nobody's tvs are working and there's a big soccer game coming up , and the crowd is getting a little restless and a little nervous .	進入法院和客戶交談 , 告訴他 , 在palazzo有一個災難 ; 沒有人的電視都在工作 , 上面有一場巨大的足球 , 群眾變得有點無限 , 有點緊張 。
he goes down to the basement and starts to check the wiring , and then gradually works his way up to the top of the building , apartment by apartment , checking every television , checking every connection , hoping to find out what this problem is .	他走向地下去 , 開始檢查出生 , 然後慢慢地工作 , 到公寓的頂端 , 公寓 , 檢查每次電視 , 檢查所有聯繫 , 請找出這個問題 。
he works his way up , finally , the grand staircase and then a smaller staircase until he reaches the attic .	他在路上工作 , 終於 , 大樓樓梯 , 之後 , 一個較小的樓梯 , 直到他抵達了票 。
he opens the window of the attic , of course , and there's a tablecloth wrapped around the building's television antenna .	當然 , 他打開了大樓的窗戶 , 上面有一張桌子在建築的電視天線 。
he removes it , the problems are solved , everybody in the palazzo is happy .	他移除了它 , 問題已經解決了 , 在巴拉茲的每個人都很開心 。
and of course , he also solves his own problem .	當然 , 他也解決了自己的問題 。
all he has to do now , with a perfect table , is wait for her to arrive .	他現在只需要做 , 用完美的桌子 , 等著她來到達 。
that was the first attempt , but it didn't seem substantial enough to convey whatever it was i wanted to convey about rome .	那是第一個嘗試 , 但它似乎不夠細微 , 去探討我想要傳達羅馬的事物 。
so i thought , well , i'll just do piazzas , and i'll get inside and underneath and i'll show these things growing and show why they're shaped the way they are and so on .	所以我想 , 嗯 , 我會做piazzas , 我會進到內部 , 向下展示這些東西的成長 , 展示為什麼他們被塑造了它們的樣子等等 。
and then i thought , that's too complicated . no , i'll just take my favorite bits and pieces and i'll put them inside the pantheon but keep the scale , so you can see the top of sant'ivo and the pyramid of cestius and the tempietto of bramante all side by side in this amazing space .	然後我心想 , 這太複雜了 , 不 , 我會把我最喜歡的小片和碎片放進箱子裡 , 我會把它們放進箱子裡 , 保持規模 , 這樣你就可以看到聖誕節和巴拉德的溫度和寺廟 , 在這個令人驚奇的空間中 ,
now that's one drawing , so i thought maybe it's time for piranesi to meet escher .	這張圖是一張圖 , 所以我想 , 也許是piransi要見到escher的時候了 。
you see that i'm beginning to really lose control here and also hope .	你看 , 我開始失去控制 , 同時也希望 。
there's a very thin blue line of exhaust that sort of runs through this thing that would be kind of the trail that holds it all together .	有一個非常小的藍色的外交線 , 它會透過這種東西來運作 , 這種軌道會被整合起來 。
then i thought , " wait a minute , what am i doing ? "	然後我想: 「 等一下 , 我在做什麼 ? 」
a book is not only a neat way of collecting and storing information , it's a series of layers .	一本書不僅是收集和儲存資訊的好方法 , 而是一系列的層次 。
i mean , you always peel one layer off another ; we think of them as pages , doing it a certain way .	我的意思是 , 你總是一層一層 , 我們把它們視為頁面 , 做一個特定的方式 。
but think of them as layers . i mean , rome is a place of layers horizontal layers , vertical layers and i thought , well just peeling off a page would allow me to if i got you thinking about it the right way would allow me to sort of show you the depth of layers .	但 , 把它們當成層 。 我的意思是 , 羅馬是一層層層層層層層 , 垂直層 , 我心想 , 好吧 , 只要我拿下一張頁面 , 就可以讓我在想 , 如果我把它當作正確的方式 , 讓我可以給你看一些層面的深度 。
the stucco on the walls of most of the buildings in rome covers the scars ; the scars of centuries of change as these structures have been adapted rather than being torn down .	在羅馬大樓的牆上 , 大部分的建築物都包含了害怕 ; 數世紀以來 , 這些結構已經被改造了 , 而不是被破壞 。
if i do a foldout page on the lefthand side and let you just unfold it , you see behind it what i mean by scar tissue .	如果我在左邊做一頁摺疊 , 讓你放大它 , 你就看到我所謂的害怕組織的意思 。
you can see that in 1635 , it became essential to make smaller windows because the bad guys were coming or whatever .	你可以看到 , 在1635年 , 它變成了較小的窗戶 , 因為壞人來到哪裡 。
adaptations all get buried under the stucco .	全部的適應力都被埋在胃下 。
i could peel out a page of this palazzo to show you what's going on inside of it .	我可以拿出一張palazo的頁面 , 給你們看它的內部發生了什麼事 。
but more importantly , i could also show you what it looks like at the corner of one of those magnificent buildings with all the massive stone blocks , or the fake stone blocks done with brick and stucco , which is more often the case .	但更重要的是 , 我也能向各位展示這些巨大的石頭是什麼樣子 , 和所有巨大的石塊一樣 , 或假的石塊做成磚塊 , 比較常發生 。
so it becomes slightly threedimensional .	所以它變得有點像三維 。
i could take you down one of those narrow little streets into one of those surprising piazzas by using a double gate fold double foldout page which , if you were like me reading a popup book as a child , you hopefully stick your head into .	我可以帶你們到一個狹窄的小街上 , 其中一個令人驚訝的偏差之一 , 用一個雙大的噴霧紙 , 如果你像我一樣 , 閱讀一本小書 , 你希望把你的頭放進去 。
you wrap the pages around your head and are in that piazza for that brief period of time .	你在頭上拍下你的頁面 , 在那段短暫的時期 。
and i've really not done anything much more complicated than make foldout pages .	我真的沒有做任何複雜的事 , 比製造摺疊頁還要複雜 。
but then i thought , maybe i could be simpler here .	但接著我想 , 也許我可以很簡單 。
let's look at the pantheon and the piazza della rotonda in front of it .	咱們來看看這邊的邊界 , 帕薩•羅頓德拉在前面 。
here's a book completely wide open .	這是一本書完全開放 。
ok , if i don't open the book the whole way , if i just open it 90 degrees , we're looking down the front of the pantheon , and we're looking sort of at the top , more or less down on the square .	好 , 如果我完全不打開這本書 , 如果我剛開了九十度 , 我們就在前方看 , 看上方 , 更低的位置 。
and if i turn the book the other way , we're looking across the square at the front of the pantheon .	如果我把這本書轉換成另一方面 , 我們正看著平方形的前方 。
no foldouts , no tricks just a book that isn't open the whole way .	沒有摺疊 , 不單是一本書 , 不是完全開放 。
that seemed promising . i thought , maybe i'll do it inside and i can even combine the foldouts with the only partially opened book .	這看起來很不可思議 。 我心想 , 也許我會在裡面做 , 我甚至可以和唯一開放的書組合起來 。
so we get inside the pantheon and it grows and so on and so forth .	所以 , 我們進入了神殿內部 , 成長等等 。
and i thought , maybe i'm on the right track , but it sort of lost its human quality .	我心想 , 也許我在正確的軌道上 , 但它有點迷失了人類品質 。
so i went back to the notion of story , which is always a good thing to have if you're trying to get people to pay attention to a book and pick up information along the way .	所以 , 我回到故事的概念 , 這一直是件好事 , 如果你想要讓人們注意一本書 , 並且在路上拿起資訊 。
" pigeon's progress " struck me as a catchy title .	「 pigeon的進步 」 讓我身為有技巧的標題 。
if it was a homing pigeon , it would be called " homer's odyssey . "	如果它是個活生的鴿子 , 它會被稱作 「 家的奇數 」 。
but it was the journey of the . . .	但它是這個旅程 。
i mean , if a title works , use it . but it would be a journey that went through rome and showed all the things that i like about rome .	我的意思是 , 如果一台編輯工作 , 用它 , 但它會是一趟旅程 , 讓羅馬的旅程 , 展現我喜歡羅馬的所有事物 。
it's a pigeon sitting on top of a church .	它是教堂頂端的鴿子 。
goes off during the day and does normal pigeon stuff . comes back , the whole place is covered with scaffolding and green netting and there's no way this pigeon can get home .	在日子裡 , 做正常的鴿子 , 回來 , 整個地方 , 都包含了雪花和綠色的網絡 , 沒有這種鴿子可以回家 。
so it's a homeless pigeon now and it's going to have to find another place to live , and that allows me to go through my catalog of favorite things , and we start with the tall ones and so on .	所以現在是無家可歸的鴿子 , 要找到另一個地方 , 讓我可以透過我最喜歡的東西 , 我們先從最高的位置開始 。
maybe it has to go back and live with family members ; that's not always a good thing , but it does sort of bring pigeons together again .	也許它必須回到和家人一起生活 , 不一定是好事 , 但它會再次把鴿子帶回來 。
and i thought , that's sort of interesting , but maybe there's a person who should be involved in this in some way .	我心想 , 這有點有趣 , 但也許有一種人應該以某種方式參與 。
so i kind of came up with this old guy who spends his life looking after sick pigeons .	所以我想出了一個老年人 , 花了他的生命 , 看著生病的鴿子 。
he'll go anywhere to get them dangerous places and whatnot and they become really friends with this guy , and learn to do tricks for him and entertain him at lunchtime and stuff like that .	他會到任何地方 , 讓他們很危險 , 並且他們和這個傢伙的朋友一起 , 學習為他做技巧 , 並在午餐時和像這樣的東西 。
there's a real bond that develops between this old man and these pigeons .	這個老人和這些鴿子之間的真正鍵結 。
but unfortunately he gets sick . he gets really sick at the end of the story .	但不幸的是 , 他生病了 。 他在故事結束後就很生病了 。
he's taught them to spell his name , which is aldo .	他教他們把他的名字拼字 , 叫做aldo 。
they show up one day after three or four days of not seeing him he lives in this little garret and they spell his name and fly around .	有一天 , 他們出生了三到四天 , 沒有看到他住在這個小垃圾桶裡 , 他們會發出他的名字和飛行 。
and he finally gets enough strength together to climb up the ladder onto the roof , and all the pigeons , a la red balloon , are there waiting for him and they carry him off over the walls of the city .	他終於有足夠的力量 , 一起爬上屋頂 , 所有的鴿子 , 一片紅色的氣球 , 等著他 , 帶著他走在城市的牆上 。
and i forgot to mention this: whenever he lost a pigeon , he would take that pigeon out beyond the walls of the city .	我忘了這點:當他失去了鴿子時 , 他會把那隻鴿子從城市牆壁的牆上拿出來 。
in the old roman custom , the dead were never buried within the walls .	在古羅馬的客戶中 , 死者從來沒有埋在牆裡 。
and i thought that's a really cheery story .	我覺得這是一個非常小的故事 。
. that's really going to go a long way .	那真的會很長一段路 。
so anyway , i went through . . . and again , if packaging doesn't work and if the stories aren't going anywhere , i just come up with titles and hope that a title will sort of kick me off in the right direction .	總之 , 我走過了 。 再一次 , 如果包裝不適用 , 如果故事不在任何地方 , 我剛剛想起了頭銜 , 希望 , 會把我踢在正確的方向上 。
and sometimes it does focus me enough and i'll even do a title page .	有時 , 它會把焦點放在我身上 , 我甚至會做一份編輯頁 。
so , these are all title pages that eventually led me to the solution i settled on , which is the story of a young woman who sends a message on a homing pigeon she lives outside the walls of the city of rome to someone in the city .	所以 , 這些都是標題的頁面 , 最終引導了我解決方案 , 這是一位年輕女士的故事 , 她在城市的牆壁外發送訊息 。
and the pigeon is flying down above the appian way here .	鴿子正在飛到這裡 。
you can see the tombs and pines and so on and so forth along the way .	各位可以看出湯姆和罰單等等 , 順便一提 。
if you see the red line , you are seeing the trail of the pigeon ; if you don't see the red line , you are the pigeon .	如果你看到紅線 , 你會看到鴿子的軌道 ; 如果你看不到紅線 , 你就是鴿子 。
and it becomes necessary and possible , at this point , to try to convey what that sense would be like of flying over the city without actually moving .	在這個時點 , 它就變成了必要且有可能 , 試著去探討那個感覺會是什麼樣子的飛行 , 沒有實際移動 。
past the pyramid of cestius these will seem very familiar to you , even if you haven't been to rome recently past the gatehouse .	過去 , 這些金字塔的金字塔似乎很熟悉 , 即使你最近沒去過羅馬 。
this is something that's a little bit unusual .	這有點不尋常 。
this pigeon does something that most homing pigeons do not do: it takes the scenic route , which was a device that i felt was necessary to actually extend this book beyond about four pages .	這隻鴿子做了最多的希望鴿子 , 不是這樣:它會帶著恐怖的路線 , 就是我覺得這本書在四頁之外延長這本書 。
so , we circle around the coliseum , past the church of santa maria in cosmedin and the temple of hercules towards the river .	所以 , 我們圍繞著大學 , 過去聖誕節的教堂 , 希臘•瑪麗亞和海克力士的神殿 。
we almost collide with the cornice of the palazzo farnese designed by michelangelo , built of stone taken from the coliseum narrow escape .	我們幾乎和palazzzo的優秀設計 , 由米開朗基羅所設計的石頭 , 由哥倫敦的最狹窄的逃離 。
we swoop down over the campo de' fiori .	我們在柬埔寨的基礎上打開了 。
this is one of those things i show to my students because it's a complete bastardization a denial of any rules of perspective .	這是我向我的學生展示的其中一件事 , 因為它是完全的基礎化的任何規則 。
the only rule of perspective that i think matters is if it looks believable , you've succeeded .	我認為唯一的觀點規則是 , 如果它看起來可信 , 你就成功了 。
but you try and figure out where the vanishing points meet here ; a couple are on mars and a couple of others in cremona .	但你試著找出消費點在哪裡 , 火星和其他幾位在克雷蒙亞的朋友 。
but into the piazza in front of santa maria della pace , where invariably a soccer game is going on , and we're hit by a soccer ball .	但在聖誕節賽前面 , 以便是一場足球比賽的比賽正在發生 , 我們被足球撞擊 。
now this is a terrible illustration of being hit by a soccer ball .	這是個很糟糕的幻覺 , 被足球撞擊 。
i have all the pieces: there's santa maria della pace , there's a soccer ball , there's a little bit of a bird's wing nothing's happening , so i had to rethink it .	我有所有的作品:有聖誕節瑪麗亞帕斯 , 有一顆足球 , 有些鳥的翅膀發生了 , 所以我必須重新思考它 。
and if you do want to see santa maria della pace , these books are really flexible , incredibly interactive just turn it around and look at it the other way .	假如你想看到聖誕節瑪麗亞•迪拉帕斯 , 這些書真的很有彈性 , 不可思議地轉換它 , 看它是另一種 。
through the alley , we can see the impact is captured in the red line .	透過盟友 , 我們可以看到紅線被捕捉到的影響 。
and then bird manages to pull itself together past this medieval tower one of the few remaining medieval towers towards the church of sant'agnese and around the dome looking down into piazza navona which we've already mentioned and seen and flown over a couple of times ; there's the bernini statue of the four rivers and then past the wonderful borromini sant'ivo , stopping just long enough on the 26foot diameter oculus of the pantheon to catch our breath .	接著 , 鳥會把自己拉過這個中世紀的大樓 , 剩下幾個中世紀的大樓 , 來到聖基地的教堂 , 四周 , 我們已經提到piazanavona , 經過了幾次 , 經過了兩次 , 穿越了四個河流 , 接著 , 經過了一片美妙的邊境 , 停止了26英呎的泥巴 。
and then we can swoop inside and around ; and because we're flying , we don't really have to worry about gravity at this particular moment in time , so this drawing can be oriented in any way on the page .	然後我們可以在內部轉動 , 因為我們在飛行 , 我們真的不需要擔心重力 , 在這個時刻 , 這樣繪畫就可以在任何程度上 。
we get a little exuberant as we pass gesu ; it's not surprising to sort of mimic the architecture in this way .	當我們通過gesu時 , 我們得到一個很大的爆炸 , 不讓人意外地模仿建築 。
past the wonderful wall filled with the juxtaposition that i was talking about ; beautiful carvings set into the walls above the neon " ristorante " sign , and so on .	穿過我所談到的催化劑 , 充滿了美麗的心臟裝置 , 進入了內部的牆壁 , 上面的 「 激進器 」 , 等等 。
and eventually , we arrive at the courtyard of the palazzo , which is our destination .	最後 , 我們抵達了palazzo的法庭 , 這是我們的目的 。
straight up through the courtyard into a little window into the attic , where somebody is working at the drawing board .	直接通過法院進入一個小窗戶 , 有人在畫圖板上工作 。
he removes the message from the leg of the bird ; this is what it says .	他從鳥的腿移除訊息 ; 這是它所說的 。
as we look at the drawing board , we see what he's working on is , in fact , a map of the journey that the pigeon has just taken , and the red line extends through all the sights .	當我們看畫板時 , 我們看到他正在做的事是 , 事實上 , 鴿子剛剛拍攝的地圖 , 紅線在所有視覺中延伸 。
and if you want the information , so that we complete this cycle of understanding , all you have to do is read these paragraphs .	如果你想要這些資訊 , 這樣我們就完成了這個理解的循環 , 你只需要做的就是閱讀這些典範 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝大家 。
mit researcher skylar tibbits works on selfassembly the idea that instead of building something , we can create materials that build themselves , much the way a strand of dna zips itself together . it's a big concept at early stages ; tibbits shows us three inthelab projects that hint at what a selfassembling future might look like .	麻省理工學院研究員在自我組裝上工作 , 不用建造東西 , 我們就能創造出自己的東西 , 大部份dna組合的概念 。 它是在早期的舞台上 , 兔子告訴我們三項獨立的計畫 , 可能是自我組合未來的樣子 。
skylar tibbits: can we make things that make themselves ?	天空的兔子:我們能製造出自己的東西嗎 ?
today i'd like to show you the future of the way we make things .	今天我要向各位展示我們創造東西的未來 。
i believe that soon our buildings and machines will be selfassembling , replicating and repairing themselves .	我相信 , 我們的建築和機器很快就會自我組裝、複製和修復自己 。
so i'm going to show you what i believe is the current state of manufacturing , and then compare that to some natural systems .	所以我要向各位展示我相信目前的製造狀態 , 和一些自然系統相比 。
so in the current state of manufacturing , we have skyscrapers two and a half years [of assembly time] , 500 , 000 to a million parts , fairly complex , new , exciting technologies in steel , concrete , glass .	在目前製造的狀態中 , 我們有二到五年半的摩天機 , 組裝時間是五十萬到百萬的零件 , 非常複雜 , 非常令人興奮的技術 , 在史黛爾、混凝土、玻璃 。
we have exciting machines that can take us into space five years [of assembly time] , 2 . 5 million parts .	我們有令人興奮的機器能帶我們進入太空 , 五年來 , 組合時間是250萬個零件 。
but on the other side , if you look at the natural systems , we have proteins that have two million types , can fold in 10 , 000 nanoseconds , or dna with three billion base pairs we can replicate in roughly an hour .	但在另一邊 , 如果你看天然系統 , 我們有兩百萬種蛋白質 , 可以在一萬奈米秒內摺疊 , 或是dna , 我們可以在大約一小時重複複複複製 。
so there's all of this complexity in our natural systems , but they're extremely efficient , far more efficient than anything we can build , far more complex than anything we can build .	所以 , 在我們的自然系統中 , 所有這些複雜性 , 但它們是非常有效率的 , 比我們所建造的任何東西還要有效率 , 比我們所能建造的更複雜 。
they're far more efficient in terms of energy .	在能量方面 , 它們更有效率 。
they hardly ever make mistakes .	他們幾乎無法犯錯 。
and they can repair themselves for longevity .	他們可以為長壽修復自己 。
so there's something super interesting about natural systems .	所以 , 自然系統很有趣 。
and if we can translate that into our built environment , then there's some exciting potential for the way that we build things .	如果我們能把這個轉換成我們的建設環境 , 那麼我們有一些令人興奮的潛力 。
and i think the key to that is selfassembly .	我認為這關鍵在於自我組合 。
so if we want to utilize selfassembly in our physical environment , i think there's four key factors .	所以如果我們想把自我組裝在我們的身體環境中 , 我想有四個關鍵因素 。
the first is that we need to decode all of the complexity of what we want to build so our buildings and machines .	首先 , 我們需要解碼所有我們想要建造的複雜性 , 以便是我們的建築和機器 。
and we need to decode that into simple sequences basically the dna of how our buildings work .	我們需要把這分解成簡單的序列 , 基本上就是我們的建築如何運作的dna 。
then we need programmable parts that can take that sequence and use that to fold up , or reconfigure .	接著 , 我們需要可程式化的部分 , 可以用這個序列來摺疊 , 或重建 。
we need some energy that's going to allow that to activate , allow our parts to be able to fold up from the program .	我們需要一些能量 , 讓它能啟動 , 讓我們的部分可以從這個計畫中摺疊出來 。
and we need some type of error correction redundancy to guarantee that we have successfully built what we want .	我們需要某種類型的企業重複性 , 來確保我們成功地建立我們所想要的 。
so i'm going to show you a number of projects that my colleagues and i at mit are working on to achieve this selfassembling future .	所以 , 我要給你們看一些計畫 , 我的同事和我在麻省理工學院工作 , 完成這個自我組裝的未來 。
the first two are the macrobot and decibot .	第一 , 是麥克勞和決策 。
so these projects are largescale reconfigurable robots 8 ft . , 12 ft . long proteins .	這些計畫是大規模的可重建的機器人8公尺 。 12英尺長的蛋白質 。
they're embedded with mechanical electrical devices , sensors .	他們用機械電設備來擁抱 , 感應器 。
you decode what you want to fold up into , into a sequence of angles so negative 120 , negative 120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , negative 120 something like that ; so a sequence of angles , or turns , and you send that sequence through the string .	你解碼了你想要摺疊的東西 , 以一系列的角度為負面120、120、120、120、120 , 負面的120個 , 或轉換 , 你將這個序列傳遞到弦上 。
each unit takes its message so negative 120 it rotates to that , checks if it got there and then passes it to its neighbor .	每位單位都拿著它的信息 , 如此負面120 , 便會轉向那邊 , 檢查一下 , 然後把它傳給鄰居 。
so these are the brilliant scientists , engineers , designers that worked on this project .	這些是最棒的科學家 , 工程師 , 設計師 , 設計師在這個計畫上工作 。
and i think it really brings to light: is this really scalable ?	我認為它真的帶給光明:這真的很可怕嗎 ?
i mean , thousands of dollars , lots of man hours made to make this eightfoot robot .	我的意思是 , 數千美金 , 許多人小時來製造這八英尺的機器人 。
can we really scale this up ? can we really embed robotics into every part ?	我們能否大規模擴大嗎 ? 我們能否把機器人嵌入每一部分 ?
the next one questions that and looks at passive nature , or passively trying to have reconfiguration programmability .	下一個問題 , 看著大自然 , 或被動地嘗試重建程式性 。
but it goes a step further , and it tries to have actual computation .	但它會更進一步 , 它會嘗試真正的計算 。
it basically embeds the most fundamental building block of computing , the digital logic gate , directly into your parts .	基本上 , 它將計算最基本的建築物集合起來 , 數位邏輯會直接進入你的部分 。
so this is a nand gate .	這是一個nandgate 。
you have one tetrahedron which is the gate that's going to do your computing , and you have two input tetrahedrons .	你有一台電梯 , 會做你的計算 , 你有兩個輸入的輸入 。
one of them is the input from the user , as you're building your bricks .	其中一個是使用者的輸入 , 就像你在建造你的磚塊一樣 。
the other one is from the previous brick that was placed .	另外一個是從前的磚塊開始 。
and then it gives you an output in 3d space .	然後它會給你一個3d空間的輸出 。
so what this means is that the user can start plugging in what they want the bricks to do .	所以這意味著 , 使用者可以開始在他們想要的磚塊中開始加入 。
it computes on what it was doing before and what you said you wanted it to do .	它在它之前的做法和你說的 , 你想要做些什麼 。
and now it starts moving in threedimensional space so up or down .	現在它開始在三維空間中移動 , 以下或下降 。
so on the lefthand side , [1 , 1] input equals 0 output , which goes down .	所以 , 在左手邊 , 「 1 , 1 , 輸入量等於0輸出 , 它會下降 。
on the righthand side , [0 , 0] input is a 1 output , which goes up .	在右手邊 , 0 , 輸入是1輸出的 , 它會上升 。
and so what that really means is that our structures now contain the blueprints of what we want to build .	所以這意味著我們的結構現在包含了我們想要建造的藍圖 。
so they have all of the information embedded in them of what was constructed .	所以他們有了所有資訊 , 包含了他們所建設的內容 。
so that means that we can have some form of selfreplication .	這意味著我們可以有某種形式的自我複製 。
in this case i call it selfguided replication , because your structure contains the exact blueprints .	在這個案例中 , 我稱它為自我複製 , 因為你的結構包含了完全的藍圖 。
if you have errors , you can replace a part .	如果你有錯誤 , 你可以取代一個部分 。
all the local information is embedded to tell you how to fix it .	所有當地的資訊都被告知如何修復它 。
so you could have something that climbs along and reads it and can output at one to one .	所以 , 你可以有一些可以爬上去閱讀 , 並且可以在一個人身上發出輸出 。
it's directly embedded ; there's no external instructions .	它直接擁抱 , 沒有外部指示 。
so the last project i'll show is called biased chains , and it's probably the most exciting example that we have right now of passive selfassembly systems .	最後一個項目叫做偏見鏈 , 它可能是我們現在所擁有的最令人興奮的例子 。
so it takes the reconfigurability and programmability and makes it a completely passive system .	所以它需要重建性和程式性 , 讓它完全是被動的系統 。
so basically you have a chain of elements .	基本上你有一連串的元素 。
each element is completely identical , and they're biased .	每個元素完全相同 , 它們都偏見了 。
so each chain , or each element , wants to turn right or left .	每個鏈 , 或每個元素 , 都想把右或左派 。
so as you assemble the chain , you're basically programming it .	所以當你組合鏈時 , 你基本上是編寫它 。
you're telling each unit if it should turn right or left .	你告訴每個單位 , 如果要轉向右或左右 。
so when you shake the chain , it then folds up into any configuration that you've programmed in so in this case , a spiral , or in this case , two cubes next to each other .	所以當你把鏈綁起來 , 把你所編寫的任何公共設施疊起來 , 以此為例 , 一個螺旋 , 或在這個案例中 , 兩個立方體在彼此旁邊 。
so you can basically program any threedimensional shape or onedimensional , twodimensional up into this chain completely passively .	基本上 , 你可以設計任何三維形狀 , 或 「 維度 」 或 「 維度 」 的形狀 。
so what does this tell us about the future ?	所以這告訴我們未來是什麼呢 ?
i think that it's telling us that there's new possibilities for selfassembly , replication , repair in our physical structures , our buildings , machines .	我認為它告訴我們 , 自組合的可能性 , 複製、複製、我們的身體結構、我們的建築、機器 。
there's new programmability in these parts .	這些地方有新的程式性 。
and from that you have new possibilities for computing .	由於你對計算有新的可能性 。
we'll have spatial computing .	我們將有空間計算 。
imagine if our buildings , our bridges , machines , all of our bricks could actually compute .	想像一下 , 如果我們的建築 , 我們的橋樑、機器 , 我們所有的磚塊都可以計算 。
that's amazing parallel and distributed computing power , new design possibilities .	這很了不起的平行和分散的計算能力 , 新的設計可能性 。
so it's exciting potential for this .	所以這對此很令人興奮 。
so i think these projects i've showed here are just a tiny step towards this future , if we implement these new technologies for a new selfassembling world .	所以我認為 , 我在這裡展示的這些項目只是一個小步驟 , 要是我們為新自我組合的世界實現這些新技術 。
we've been to the moon , we've mapped the continents , we've even been to the deepest point in the ocean twice . what's left for the next generation to explore ? biologist and explorer nathan wolfe suggests this answer: almost everything . and we can start , he says , with the world of the unseeably small .	我們來到月球 , 我們將大陸繪製出來 , 我們甚至在海洋中最深的角度 。 下一代要探索 ? 生物學家和探險者提出這個答案:幾乎所有東西 , 我們都可以說 , 和不可避免的世界一樣 。
biodiversity , exploration , microbiology , science	生物多樣性、探索、微生物學、科學、科學、科學 , 及生物多樣性 。
nathan wolfe: what's left to explore ?	納森•沃夫:哪裡要探索 ?
recently i visited beloit , wisconsin .	最近 , 我去拜訪了貝蒂 , 威斯康斯 。
and i was there to honor a great 20th century explorer , roy chapman andrews .	我在那裡去拜訪一個偉大的二十世紀探險家 , 羅里普曼•安德魯斯 。
during his time at the american museum of natural history , andrews led a range of expeditions to uncharted regions , like here in the gobi desert .	在他的美國自然歷史博物館 , 安德魯引領了一系列的探險區 , 例如在加拿大沙漠中 。
he was quite a figure .	他真的是個人物 。
he was later , it's said , the basis of the indiana jones character .	後來他說 , 印第安納瓊斯特徵的基礎 。
and when i was in beloit , wisconsin , i gave a public lecture to a group of middle school students .	當我在地上 , 威斯康斯 , 我給了一群中學學生的公立課程 。
and i'm here to tell you , if there's anything more intimidating than talking here at ted , it'll be trying to hold the attention of a group of a thousand 12yearolds for a 45minute lecture .	我在這裡要告訴各位 , 如果ted的演講比這裡更有害 , 會試著把一群人的注意力放在一千二十二十五分鐘的教堂上 。
at the end of the lecture they asked a number of questions , but there was one that's really stuck with me since then .	在課程結束時 , 他們問了一些問題 , 但從那時起 , 我真的很困擾我 。
there was a young girl who stood up , and she asked the question: " where should we explore ? "	有位年輕女孩站起來 , 她問: 「 我們該去哪裡探索 ? 」
i think there's a sense that many of us have that the great age of exploration on earth is over , that for the next generation they're going to have to go to outer space or the deepest oceans in order to find something significant to explore .	我認為 , 許多人對於地球上探索的偉大年齡已經結束了 , 在下一個世代 , 他們要去外太空或最深的海洋 , 為了找到一個更明顯的探索 。
but is that really the case ?	但這真的是如此嗎 ?
is there really nowhere significant for us to explore left here on earth ?	對我們來說 , 到底有沒有什麼意義嗎 ?
it sort of made me think back to one of my favorite explorers in the history of biology .	這有點讓我想到我最喜歡的探險家在生物學史上 。
this is an explorer of the unseen world , martinus beijerinck .	這位是聯合國的探險家 , 馬丁斯•北京堡 。
so beijerinck set out to discover the cause of tobacco mosaic disease .	所以 , beijerinck開始發現菸草病的原因 。
what he did is he took the infected juice from tobacco plants and he would filter it through smaller and smaller filters .	他所做的是從菸草植物中得到感染的果汁 , 他會透過較小的濾器來過濾它 。
and he reached the point where he felt that there must be something out there that was smaller than the smallest forms of life that were ever known bacteria , at the time .	他接觸到他感覺到 , 那裡一定有比以前所知的細菌最小的生命形式 , 比以前所知的細菌更小 。
he came up with a name for his mystery agent .	他想出了一個名字給他神秘的名字 。
he called it the virus latin for " poison . "	他稱之為 「 毒害 」 為 「 毒品 」 。
and in uncovering viruses , beijerinck really opened this entirely new world for us .	在未知的病毒中 , 北京人真的為我們打開這個全新的世界 。
we now know that viruses make up the majority of the genetic information on our planet , more than the genetic information of all other forms of life combined .	我們現在知道病毒在地球上構成大部份的基因資訊 , 比其他生命的基因資訊的基因資訊還多 。
and obviously there's been tremendous practical applications associated with this world things like the eradication of smallpox , the advent of a vaccine against cervical cancer , which we now know is mostly caused by human papillomavirus .	很顯然 , 對於這個世界有著巨大的實用應用 , 像是天花的消滅 , 這種疫苗在抗抗疫苗 , 我們現在知道大部分是由人類的彈性病毒所造成 。
and beijerinck's discovery , this was not something that occurred 500 years ago .	北京人發現 , 這不是500年前發生的事 。
it was a little over 100 years ago that beijerinck discovered viruses .	一百年前 , 北京發現了病毒 。
so basically we had automobiles , but we were unaware of the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	基本上 , 我們有汽車 , 但我們意識到生命的形式 , 構成地球上大部分基因資訊的形式 。
we now have these amazing tools to allow us to explore the unseen world things like deep sequencing , which allow us to do much more than just skim the surface and look at individual genomes from a particular species , but to look at entire metagenomes , the communities of teeming microorganisms in , on and around us and to document all of the genetic information in these species .	我們現在有這些驚人的工具 , 讓我們探究不可思議的世界 , 像是深酷的序列 , 讓我們能做更多 , 從特定物種的個人基因組 , 但 , 來看看整個尺寸的微生物 , 和周圍的社區 , 來記錄這些物種的基因資訊 。
we can apply these techniques to things from soil to skin and everything in between .	我們可以把這些技術應用到土壤中 , 到皮膚 , 以及在之間的所有東西 。
in my organization we now do this on a regular basis to identify the causes of outbreaks that are unclear exactly what causes them .	在我的組織中 , 我們現在在一個常規的基礎上 , 來辨識出出爆發造成的爆發造成的原因 。
and just to give you a sense of how this works , imagine that we took a nasal swab from every single one of you .	請給大家看一下這怎麼運作 , 想像一下 , 我們從你們的每一個人身上拿著一根細微的游泳 。
and this is something we commonly do to look for respiratory viruses like influenza .	這是我們常常尋求呼吸病毒 , 像是愛滋病毒 。
the first thing we would see is a tremendous amount of genetic information .	首先 , 我們會看到的是大量的基因資訊 。
and if we started looking into that genetic information , we'd see a number of usual suspects out there of course , a lot of human genetic information , but also bacterial and viral information , mostly from things that are completely harmless within your nose .	如果我們開始研究基因信息 , 我們會看到一些常見的猜測 , 當然 , 許多人的基因資訊 , 還有細菌和病毒資訊 , 從鼻子中完全無害 。
but we'd also see something very , very surprising .	但我們也看到了非常令人驚訝的事情 。
as we started to look at this information , we would see that about 20 percent of the genetic information in your nose doesn't match anything that we've ever seen before no plant , animal , fungus , virus or bacteria .	隨著我們開始觀察這些資訊 , 我們會發現你鼻子裡的遺傳資訊的大約20% , 不符合我們以前所見的任何生物、動物、真菌、病毒或細菌 。
basically we have no clue what this is .	基本上 , 我們沒有線索 。
and for the small group of us who actually study this kind of data , a few of us have actually begun to call this information biological dark matter .	對於我們研究這種數據的小組 , 我們當中的一些人已經開始稱之為 「 資訊生物暗物質 」 。
we know it's not anything that we've seen before ; it's sort of the equivalent of an uncharted continent right within our own genetic information .	我們知道這不是我們以前看過的任何東西 ; 它有點類似我們自己的基因資訊中所未有的大陸 。
and there's a lot of it .	還有很多 。
if you think 20 percent of genetic information in your nose is a lot of biological dark matter , if we looked at your gut , up to 40 or 50 percent of that information is biological dark matter .	如果你想想你的鼻子裡有20%的基因信息是大量的生物暗物質如果我們觀察你的腸子 , 到40%或50%的資訊是生物暗物質
and even in the relatively sterile blood , around one to two percent of this information is dark matter can't be classified , can't be typed or matched with anything we've seen before .	即使在相對穩定的血液中 , 大約有百分之二的資訊是黑暗物質無法被分類 , 無法用我們以前所見過的任何東西來配對 。
at first we thought that perhaps this was artifact .	一開始 , 我們認為這可能是人工 。
these deep sequencing tools are relatively new .	這些深厚的序列工具相對是新的 。
but as they become more and more accurate , we've determined that this information is a form of life , or at least some of it is a form of life .	但當他們變得更準確 , 我們決定這些資訊是生命的形式 , 或者至少有些是生命的形式 。
and while the hypotheses for explaining the existence of biological dark matter are really only in their infancy , there's a very , very exciting possibility that exists: that buried in this life , in this genetic information , are signatures of as of yet unidentified life .	雖然解釋生物暗物質的存在 , 同時也只是在它們的基礎中 , 有一個非常非常令人興奮的可能性:這個基因信息被埋在生命中 , 都是無知生命的特徵 。
that as we explore these strings of a's , t's , c's and g's , we may uncover a completely new class of life that , like beijerinck , will fundamentally change the way that we think about the nature of biology .	正如我們探究到一個人、t、c、g , 我們可能發現一個完全新的生活 , 例如北京人 , 基本上會改變我們對生物學的本質 。
that perhaps will allow us to identify the cause of a cancer that afflicts us or identify the source of an outbreak that we aren't familiar with or perhaps create a new tool in molecular biology .	可能讓我們能辨識出癌症的原因 , 來影響我們 , 或辨識出我們不熟悉的爆發來源 , 或是在分子生物學中創造一個新工具 。
i'm pleased to announce that , along with colleagues at stanford and caltech and ucsf , we're currently starting an initiative to explore biological dark matter for the existence of new forms of life .	我很高興地宣佈 , 和史丹佛和加州斯坦福和核能的同事 , 我們現在正在開始探索生物暗物質的存在 。
a little over a hundred years ago , people were unaware of viruses , the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	一百年前 , 人們意識到病毒的形式 , 創造出地球上大部分基因資訊的基因資訊 。
a hundred years from now , people may marvel that we were perhaps completely unaware of a new class of life that literally was right under our noses .	一百年後 , 人們可能很驚訝 , 我們可能完全無法意識到在我們的鼻子底下的新生活 。
it's true , we may have charted all the continents on the planet and we may have discovered all the mammals that are out there , but that doesn't mean that there's nothing left to explore on earth .	真的 , 我們可能把地球上的所有大陸都查看出來 , 我們可能發現了所有外面的哺乳類動物 , 但這並不表示地球上沒有什麼地方探索 。
beijerinck and his kind provide an important lesson for the next generation of explorers people like that young girl from beloit , wisconsin .	beijerinck和他的善意提供一個重要的教訓 , 給下一代的探險家 , 像那位年輕女孩 , 來自威斯坦 。
and i think if we phrase that lesson , it's something like this: don't assume that what we currently think is out there is the full story .	我認為如果我們說過那課 , 其實是這樣的:別假設我們現在認為我們現在所認為的內容是全面的故事 。
go after the dark matter in whatever field you choose to explore .	在你選擇探索的領域中 , 任何你選擇探索的領域之後 。
there are unknowns all around us and they're just waiting to be discovered .	我們周遭都不知道 , 他們只是等著被發現 。
legendary scientist david deutsch puts theoretical physics on the back burner to discuss a more urgent matter: the survival of our species . the first step toward solving global warming , he says , is to admit that we have a problem .	合法的科學家daviddesch把理論物理放進後面 , 來討論更嚴重的事:我們物種的生存 。 第一步是為了解決全球暖化 , 他說 , 就是承認我們有問題 。
climate change , cosmos , culture , environment , global issues , physics , science , technology , universe	氣候變遷、宇宙、文化、環境、全球議題、物理、科學、科技、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙
david deutsch on our place in the cosmos	在我們的宇宙中 , 大衛診斷會在宇宙中 , 大衛診斷出我們的位置 。
we've been told to go out on a limb and say something surprising .	我們被告知要出一個肢體 , 說出一些令人驚訝的事 。
so i'll try and do that , but i want to start with two things that everyone already knows .	所以 , 我會試著這樣做 , 但我想從所有人都知道的兩件事開始 。
and the first one , in fact , is something that has been known for most of recorded history .	第一個 , 事實上 , 對於大部分記錄史上所知的歷史 , 也是如此 。
and that is that the planet earth , or the solar system , or our environment or whatever , is uniquely suited to sustain our evolution or creation , as it used to be thought and our present existence , and most important , our future survival .	那就是地球 , 或太陽系 , 或任何環境 , 或任何東西 , 都能維持我們的進化或創意 , 如同它被認為和我們的現況 , 最重要的是我們未來的生存 。
nowadays this idea has a dramatic name: spaceship earth .	今日這個想法有一名戲劇性的名字:太空船 。
and the idea there is that outside the spaceship , the universe is implacably hostile , and inside is all we have , all we depend on .	而這個想法是 , 在太空船外面 , 宇宙是不可思議的 , 而內部就是我們所擁有的 , 只是我們所依賴的 。
and we only get the one chance: if we mess up our spaceship , we've got nowhere else to go .	我們只能得到一個機會:如果我們把我們的太空船混在一起 , 我們就沒辦法去了 。
now , the second thing that everyone already knows is that contrary to what was believed for most of human history , human beings are not , in fact , the hub of existence .	第二件事 , 大家都知道 , 相反的是 , 對於大部分人類歷史的信念 , 人類並不是 , 事實上 , 存在的幽默 。
as stephen hawking famously said , we're just a chemical scum on the surface of a typical planet that's in orbit around a typical star , which is on the outskirts of a typical galaxy , and so on .	史蒂芬•霍金說的 , 我們只是一個典型的星球表面的化學雕塑 , 它在典型的星球上繞著一個典型的銀河系 , 諸如此類 。
now the first of those two things that everyone knows is kind of saying that we're at a very untypical place , uniquely suited and so on , and the second one is saying that we're at a typical place .	首先 , 每個人都知道的兩件事是說 , 我們在一個非常典型的地方 , 獨特的位置 , 第二個是說我們在典型的地方 。
and especially if you regard these two as deep truths to live by and to inform your life decisions , then they seem a little bit to conflict with each other .	尤其是如果你把這兩個深度的真相看待你的生活決策 , 他們似乎對彼此有一點衝突 。
but that doesn't prevent them from both being completely false .	但這並不能避免它們是完全錯誤的 。
and they are . so let me start with the second one: typical . well is this a typical place ? well , let's look around , you know , and look in a random direction , and we see a wall , and chemical scum and that's not typical of the universe at all .	它們是的 。 讓我從第二個例子開始 , 典型 。 嗯 , 咱們來看看 , 看看隨機方向 , 我們看到一面牆 , 和化學雕塑 , 完全不典型的宇宙 。
all you've got to do is go a few hundred miles in that same direction and look back , and you won't see any walls or chemical scum at all all you see is a blue planet . and if you go further than that , you'll see the sun , the solar system , and the stars and so on .	你只需要做幾百英哩的方向 , 再回頭看 , 你不會看到任何牆 , 或化學雕塑 , 只要你更進一步看太陽、太陽系等等 。
but that's still not typical of the universe , because stars come in galaxies .	但這還是不典型的宇宙 , 因為恆星出現在星系中 。
and most places in the universe , a typical place in the universe , is nowhere near any galaxies .	在宇宙中大部分地方 , 一個典型的地方 , 宇宙中的任何星系都沒有 。
so let's go out further , till we're outside the galaxy , and look back , and yeah , there's the huge galaxy with spiral arms laid out in front of us .	讓我們更進一步 , 我們在銀河外面 , 回頭看 , 是的 , 有著大型銀河系 , 在我們面前 , 有一個很大的星系 。
and at this point we've come 100 , 000 light years from here .	此時 , 我們從這裡來了十萬個光年 。
but we're still nowhere near a typical place in the universe .	但現在我們仍無處不在宇宙中典型的地方 。
to get to a typical place , you've got to go 1 , 000 times as far as that into intergalactic space .	要到一個典型的地方 , 你必須進入一千倍的內部空間 。
and so what does that look like ? typical .	那看起來是什麼樣子 ? 典型 。
what does a typical place in the universe look like ?	宇宙中典型的地方是什麼樣子 ?
well , at enormous expense , ted has arranged a highresolution immersion virtual reality rendering of intergalactic space the view from intergalactic space .	嗯 , 在巨大的昂貴之中 , ted已經結合了高解析度的虛擬實境 , 將內在空間的觀點從內在空間中呈現出來 。
so can we have the lights off , please , so we can see it ?	所以 , 我們能不能把燈關掉 , 請看 , 我們能看到它嗎 ?
well , not quite , not quite perfect you see , in intergalactic space intergalactic space is completely dark , pitch dark .	嗯 , 不太完美 , 你看到 , 在內部的空間空間中 , 完全是黑暗 , 漆黑 。
it's so dark that if you were to be looking at the nearest star to you , and that star were to explode as a supernova , and you were to be staring directly at it at the moment when its light reached you , you still wouldn't be able to see even a glimmer .	很黑暗 , 若你看到最近的星星 , 那顆恆星就變成一個超新星 , 而你直接盯著它 , 當它的光接觸到你時 , 你仍然不會看到一個溫室 。
that's how big and how dark the universe is .	宇宙是這麼大又黑暗的 。
and that's despite the fact that a supernova is so bright , so brilliant an event , that it would kill you stone dead at a range of several light years .	儘管是超級新星的事實如此明亮 , 最棒的一個事件 , 它會殺死你在幾年的光年內死了 。
and yet from intergalactic space , it's so far away you wouldn't even see it .	然而 , 從內部空間來看 , 遠離你甚至看不到它 。
it's also very cold out there less than three degrees above absolute zero .	它也很冷 , 比絕對的零度還要低於三度 。
and it's very empty . the vacuum there is one million times less dense than the highest vacuum that our best technology on earth can currently create . so that's how different a typical place is from this place .	這是非常空的 。 真空中有一百萬倍的密度比目前地球上最高的科技能創造出的還要低 。 所以 , 典型的地方是來自這個地方的 。
and that is how untypical this place is .	這就是這個地方的不典範 。
so can we have the lights back on please ? thank you .	所以 , 我們能不能把光放回去嗎 ? 謝謝 。
now how do we know about an environment that's so far away , and so different , and so alien , from anything we're used to ?	現在 , 我們要如何知道一個很遙遠的環境 , 如此不同 , 外星人 , 從我們所習慣的任何東西 ?
well , the earth our environment , in the form of us is creating knowledge .	嗯 , 地球的環境 , 我們的形式是創造知識 。
well , what does that mean ? well , look out even further than we've just been i mean from here , with a telescope and you'll see things that look like stars .	嗯 , 這意味著什麼呢 ? 看看比我們剛剛所說的還要進一步 , 用望遠鏡 , 然後你會看到像恆星一樣的東西 。
they're called " quasars . " quasars originally meant quasistellar object .	他們稱之為 「 四軸 」 , 原本的意思是 「 平方形物 」 。
which means things that look a bit like stars . but they're not stars .	這意味著 , 看起來有點像星 。 但它們不是星星 。
and we know what they are . billions of years ago , and billions of light years away , the material at the center of a galaxy collapsed towards a supermassive black hole .	我們知道它們是幾十億年前的 , 數十億個光年後 , 在一個銀河系的中心 , 形成了巨大的黑洞 。
and then intense magnetic fields directed some of the energy of that gravitational collapse . and some of the matter , back out in the form of tremendous jets which illuminated lobes with the brilliance of i think it's a trillion suns .	接著 , 強烈的磁場把一些引力崩潰的能量 , 其中一些物質 , 反而是巨大的噴泉 , 由我認為它是幾兆太陽 。
now , the physics of the human brain could hardly be more unlike the physics of such a jet .	現在 , 人類大腦的物理 , 幾乎無法像這種噴射一樣的物理物理 。
we couldn't survive for an instant in it . language breaks down when trying to describe what it would be like in one of those jets .	我們無法生存它 。 語言在試圖描述它時 , 語言會突破它會是什麼樣子 。
it would be a bit like experiencing a supernova explosion , but at pointblank range and for millions of years at a time .	它會有點像是在探討超級新星爆炸 , 但在日本的範圍和數百萬年來 。
and yet , that jet happened in precisely such a way that billions of years later , on the other side of the universe , some bit of chemical scum could accurately describe , and model , and predict , and explain , above all there's your reference what was happening there , in reality .	然而 , 這種噴射發生在數十億年後 , 在宇宙的另一邊 , 有些化學螢幕可以準確描述 , 模型 , 並且預測 , 向上解釋 , 除了你所發生的事情 , 在現實中 。
the one physical system , the brain , contains an accurate working model of the other the quasar .	一個物理系統 , 大腦包含了一種精確的運作模式 , 其它四軸 。
not just a superficial image of it , though it contains that as well , but an explanatory model , embodying the same mathematical relationships and the same causal structure .	不只是一個超級公平的圖像 , 雖然它也包含了它 , 但一個解釋模型 , 將相同的數學關係和相同的結構 。
now that is knowledge . and if that weren't amazing enough , the faithfulness with which the one structure resembles the other is increasing with time . that is the growth of knowledge .	這種知識是知識的 , 如果這還不夠奇妙 , 一個結構的構造會與時間相互相相相互相相互相相相互相相互相互聯繫 。 這是知識的成長 。
so , the laws of physics have this special property .	所以 , 物理定律有這種特殊的特性 。
that physical objects , as unlike each other as they could possibly be , can nevertheless embody the same mathematical and causal structure and to do it more and more so over time .	實體的物體 , 不像它們一樣 , 不可思議的存在 , 不可思議的數學和劍橋結構 , 不斷地進行 。
so we are a chemical scum that is different . this chemical scum has universality .	所以 , 我們是一個不同的化學螢幕 。 這種化學螢幕有普遍性的 。
its structure contains , with everincreasing precision , the structure of everything . this place , and not other places in the universe , is a hub which contains within itself the structural and causal essence of the whole of the rest of physical reality . and so , far from being insignificant , the fact that the laws of physics allow this , or even mandate that this can happen , is one of the most important things about the physical world .	它的結構包含了 , 隨著不斷地增加 , 所有東西的結構 。 而不是宇宙中的其他地方 , 就是一個在結構和實體現實中包含的中心 。 至於 , 到目前為止 , 物理物理學的定律 , 甚至是對實體世界的重要性 。
now how does the solar system and our environment , in the form of us acquire this special relationship with the rest of the universe ?	那麼 , 太陽系和我們的環境 , 我們的形式是如何與宇宙其他的其他特殊關係 ?
well , one thing that's true about stephen hawking's remark i mean , it is true , but it's the wrong emphasis . one thing that's true about it is that it doesn't do it with any special physics . there's no special dispensation , no miracles involved . it does it simply with three things that we have here in abundance .	嗯 , 史蒂芬•霍金是真的 , 我是說真的 , 這是錯的 , 但它是錯的 。 其中一件事是 , 沒有任何特殊的物理學 。 沒有特殊的失調 , 沒有奇蹟 。 它只能用我們在無限之中存在的三樣東西 。
one of them is matter , because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing . information processing is computation , computation requires a computer there's no known way of making a computer without matter .	其中一個是很重要的 , 因為知識的增長是資訊處理的形式 。 資訊處理是計算 , 需要一個電腦 , 不需要製造電腦 。
we also need energy to make the computer , and most important , to make the media in effect onto which we record the knowledge that we discover .	我們也需要能量來製造電腦 , 最重要的是 , 讓媒體在我們記錄我們所發現的知識 。
and then thirdly , less tangible , but just as essential for the openended creation of knowledge , of explanations , is evidence .	第三 , 更不可思議 , 但正如 「 知識 」 的開放創意 , 解釋 , 是證據 。
now , our environment is inundated with evidence .	我們的環境充滿了證據 。
we happen to get round to testing , let's say , newton's law of gravity about 300 years ago .	我們在三百年前就開始測試 , 例如 , 牛頓的重力法則大約300年前 。
but the evidence that we used to do that was falling down on every square meter of the earth for billions of years before that , and will continue to fall on for billions of years afterwards . and the same is true for all the other sciences .	但是我們以前曾經在地球的每一平方公尺下降的證據 , 數十億年來 , 未來會持續下去 。 而對其他科學來說也是如此 。
as far as we know , evidence to discover the most fundamental truths of all the sciences is here just for the taking on our planet .	目前我們所知 , 證據證明所有科學中最基本的真理 , 就是要在地球上採取行動 。
our location is saturated with evidence , and also with matter and energy .	我們的位置充滿證據 , 同時也充滿了物質和能量 。
out in intergalactic space , those three prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge are at their lowest possible supply .	在內部的空間中 , 這三種正式的知識創作是他們最低的可能供給的 。
as i said , it's empty ; it's cold ; and it's dark out there . or is it ?	如我所說的 , 它是空的 ; 很冷 , 它在那裏是黑暗的 。 還是它嗎 ?
now actually , that's just another parochial misconception .	實際上 , 這只是另外一個種族誤解 。
because imagine a cube out there in intergalactic space , the same size as our home , the solar system . now that cube is very empty by human standards , but that still means that it contains over a million tons of matter .	想像一下 , 在內部空間中有一個立方體 , 和我們的家一樣大 , 太陽系現在 , 由人類標準非常空 , 但這也意味著它有超過百萬噸的物質 。
and a million tons is enough to make , say , a selfcontained space station , on which there's a colony of scientists that are devoted to creating an openended stream of knowledge , and so on .	一百萬噸足以製造 , 例如 , 一個自我控制的空間站 , 這裡有一群科學家 , 來創造一個開放的知識 , 等等 。
now , it's way beyond present technology to even gather the hydrogen from intergalactic space and form it into other elements and so on .	現在 , 科技超越了科技 , 甚至能從內部空間中聚集氫 , 形成其它元素 , 等等 。
but the thing is , in a comprehensible universe , if something isn't forbidden by the laws of physics , then what could possibly prevent us from doing it , other than knowing how ?	但 , 重點是 , 在一個不可思議的宇宙中 , 如果物理定律不被物理的法則 , 那麼 , 可能是如何避免我們從做這件事 , 除了知道如何 ?
in other words , it's a matter of knowledge , not resources .	換句話說 , 知識是很重要的 , 而不是資源 。
and the same well , if we could do that we'd automatically have an energy supply , because the transmutation would be a fusion reactor and evidence ?	同樣的 , 如果我們能自動使用能源供應 , 因為轉變會是核融合反應器和證據嗎 ?
well , again , it's dark out there to human senses . but all you've got to do is take a telescope , even one of presentday design , look out and you'll see the same galaxies as we do from here .	再一次 , 人類的感官是黑暗的 , 但你只需要做一個望遠鏡 , 甚至是今天的設計 , 看 , 你可以看到我們從這裡得到的銀河系 。
and with a more powerful telescope , you'll be able to see stars , and planets .	隨著更強大的望遠鏡 , 你就能看見恆星和行星 。
in those galaxies , you'll be able to do astrophysics , and learn the laws of physics .	在那些銀河系裡 , 你可以做天體物理學 , 學習物理定律 。
and locally there you could build particle accelerators , and learn elementary particle physics , and chemistry , and so on .	在那裡 , 你可以建造粒子加速器 , 學習基本粒子物理 , 以及化學物質等等 。
probably the hardest science to do would be biology field trips because it would take several hundred million years to get to the nearest lifebearing planet and back .	或許最困難的科學是生物領域的旅程 , 因為它需要幾億年才能到近生存的星球 , 回來 。
but i have to tell you and sorry , richard but i never did like biology field trips much , and i think we can just about make do with one every few hundred million years .	但我得告訴各位 , 很抱歉 , 理查 , 但我從來沒有像生物領域一樣 , 我想我們只能用一億年來做這件事 。
so in fact , intergalactic space does contain all the prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge . any such cube , anywhere in the universe , could become the same kind of hub that we are , if the knowledge of how to do so were present there .	所以 , 事實上 , 國際空間確實包含了所有被開放的知識創建的先例 。 任何地方 , 任何地方 , 都可能變成我們所在的樣子 , 假如如何實現 。
so we're not in a uniquely hospitable place .	所以 , 我們不是一個獨特的居住地方 。
if intergalactic space is capable of creating an openended stream of explanations , then so is almost every other environment . so is the earth . so is a polluted earth .	如果國際空間可以創造一個開放的解釋 , 那麼幾乎所有其他的環境 。 所以 , 地球是污染的地球 。
and the limiting factor , there and here , is not resources , because they're plentiful , but knowledge , which is scarce .	限制因素 , 在這裡 , 不是資源 , 因為它們很豐富 , 但知識 , 很可怕 。
now this cosmic knowledgebased view may and i think ought to make us feel very special . but it should also make us feel vulnerable , because it means that without the specific knowledge that's needed to survive the ongoing challenges of the universe , we won't survive them .	這種宇宙知識的觀點 , 我認為應該讓我們感到非常特別 。 但它也應該讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為這意味著 , 沒有特定的知識 , 我們需要存活在宇宙中 , 我們不會生存它們 。
all it takes is for a supernova to go off a few light years away , and we'll all be dead !	只需要一個超新星才能離開幾年 , 我們都死了 !
martin rees has recently written a book about our vulnerability to all sorts of things , from astrophysics , to scientific experiments gone wrong , and most importantly to terrorism with weapons of mass destruction .	馬丁•雷斯最近寫了一本關於我們對各種事物的脆弱的書 , 從天體物理 , 到科學實驗錯了 , 最重要的是 , 和大規模毀滅的武器有關 。
and he thinks that civilization has only a 50 percent chance of surviving this century .	他認為文明只有50%的機會來生存這個世紀 。
i think he's going to talk about that later in the conference .	我想他接下來要談談這場會議 。
now i don't think that probability is the right category to discuss this issue in .	我不認為有機性是對的類別 , 來討論這個議題 。
but i do agree with him about this . we can survive , and we can fail to survive .	但我也同意他 , 我們能生存 , 我們可以生存 , 我們可以無法生存下來 。
but it depends not on chance , but on whether we create the relevant knowledge in time .	但它不依賴機率 , 但 , 不管我們在何時創造了相關的知識 。
the danger is not at all unprecedented . species go extinct all the time .	危險並非每次都沒有被忽略的 。 物種永遠都會滅絕 。
civilizations end . the overwhelming majority of all species and all civilizations that have ever existed are now history .	文明終於結束了 , 大部分的物種和所有文明的文明都已經存在現在是歷史 。
and if we want to be the exception to that , then logically our only hope is to make use of the one feature that distinguishes our species , and our civilization , from all the others namely , our special relationship with the laws of physics , our ability to create new explanations , new knowledge to be a hub of existence .	若我們想要成為這種例外 , 那麼 , 我們唯一的希望是用一種特徵來分辨我們的物種 , 我們的文明 , 從其他的文明 , 我們對物理的特殊關係 , 創造出新的解釋 , 新的知識是存在的 。
so let me now apply this to a current controversy , not because i want to advocate any particular solution , but just to illustrate the kind of thing i mean .	現在 , 讓我應用到目前的爭議 , 不是因為我想要激發任何特定的解決方案 , 而是說明我所謂的事物 。
and the controversy is global warming .	爭議是全球暖化 。
now , i'm a physicist , but i'm not the right kind of physicist . in regard to global warming , i'm just a layman . and the rational thing for a layman to do is to take seriously the prevailing scientific theory . and according to that theory , it's already too late to avoid a disaster .	我是物理學家 , 但是我不是正確的物理學家 , 在全球暖化的過程中 , 我只是一名拉曼人 。 理性的做法是要認真消除科學理論 。 根據這個理論 , 它已經太晚了 。
because if it's true that our best option at the moment is to prevent co2 emissions with something like the kyoto protocol , with its constraints on economic activity and its enormous cost of hundreds of billions of dollars or whatever it is , then that is already a disaster by any reasonable measure .	因為如果我們現在最好的選擇是要預防二氧化碳排放 , 例如肯亞的蛋白質 , 它的限制在經濟活動和其巨大的成本 , 或不管如何 , 已經被任何合理測量所造成的災難 。
and the actions that are advocated are not even purported to solve the problem , merely to postpone it by a little . so it's already too late to avoid it , and it probably has been too late to avoid it ever since before anyone realized the danger .	倡導者的行動甚至沒有意外解決問題 , 不只為了用一點點 , 所以它已經太遲到避免它 , 可能已經太遲了 , 從任何人意識到危險之前就太晚了 。
it was probably already too late in the 1970s , when the best available scientific theory was telling us that industrial emissions were about to precipitate a new ice age in which billions would die .	在1970年代早期 , 最好的科學理論告訴我們 , 工業排放的排放將會消耗數十億年的新冰河 。
now the lesson of that seems clear to me , and i don't know why it isn't informing public debate .	聽起來很明顯 , 我不知道為什麼這不是公眾辯論 。
it is that we can't always know . when we know of an impending disaster , and how to solve it at a cost less than the cost of the disaster itself , then there's not going to be much argument , really .	這是我們永遠不知道的 。 當我們知道一個大災難時 , 該如何在災難本身的代價低於成本 , 那就不會有爭論 , 真的 。
but no precautions , and no precautionary principle , can avoid problems that we do not yet foresee .	但沒有預防 , 也沒有預防原則 , 可以避免我們尚未預防的問題 。
hence , we need a stance of problemfixing , not just problemavoidance .	因此 , 我們需要一個問題的穩定性 , 不只是重力 。
and it's true that an ounce of prevention equals a pound of cure , but that's only if we know what to prevent .	事實是 , 一群預防的預防等同一磅的治療 , 但如果我們知道要預防什麼 。
if you've been punched on the nose , then the science of medicine does not consist of teaching you how to avoid punches .	如果你在鼻子上被抓住 , 那麼醫學的科學並不會讓你知道如何避免懲罰 。
if medical science stopped seeking cures and concentrated on prevention only , then it would achieve very little of either .	如果醫學科學停止尋求治理和專注於預防 , 那就不會有一點成就 。
the world is buzzing at the moment with plans to force reductions in gas emissions at all costs .	世界在這個時刻 , 規劃要強迫減少氣體排放量的增加 。
it ought to be buzzing with plans to reduce the temperature , and with plans to live at the higher temperature and not at all costs , but efficiently and cheaply . and some such plans exist , things like swarms of mirrors in space to deflect the sunlight away , and encouraging aquatic organisms to eat more carbon dioxide .	它應該要用計劃來降低溫度 , 以計劃來維持溫度 , 而不是所有成本 , 而是有效的 。 有些計劃存在 , 像是在太空中游的鏡子 , 讓水平的氧化合物更高 。
at the moment , these things are fringe research .	此刻 , 這些東西是迷人的研究 。
they're not central to the human effort to face this problem , or problems in general .	他們不是人性努力面對這個問題的中心 , 或一般的問題 。
and with problems that we are not aware of yet , the ability to put right not the sheer good luck of avoiding indefinitely is our only hope , not just of solving problems , but of survival .	而我們還沒意識到的問題 , 要把正確的能力放棄 , 而非無可避免的幸運是我們唯一的希望 , 不只是解決問題 , 而是生存 。
so take two stone tablets , and carve on them .	用兩台石頭桌子 , 帶著它們 。
on one of them , carve: " problems are soluble . "	其中一個 , 卡維: 「 問題是不穩定的 。 」
and on the other one carve: " problems are inevitable . "	另一輛車子: 「 問題是不可避免的 。 」
how can a struggling country break out of poverty if it's trapped in a system of bad rules ? economist paul romer unveils a bold idea: " charter cities , " cityscale administrative zones governed by a coalition of nations .	如果它陷入壞規則的制度 , 經濟學家保羅揭露了一個大膽的點子: 「 查爾斯城市 」 規則被國家的聯盟排除 。
business , culture , economics , global issues , politics	商業、文化、經濟、全球議題、政治、政治、政治 。
paul romer's radical idea: charter cities	保羅•羅馬的徹底想法:查爾斯的城市城市 。
take a look at this picture .	看看這張照片 。
it poses a very fascinating puzzle for us .	它對我們來說是非常迷人的謎題 。
these african students are doing their homework under streetlights at the airport in the capital city because they don't have any electricity at home .	這些非洲學生在公共機場的街道上做家 , 因為他們在家裡沒有電力 。
now , i haven't met these particular students , but i've met students like them .	我沒見過這些特別的學生 , 但我遇到了像他們一樣的學生 。
let's just pick one for example , the one in the green shirt .	舉例來說 , 綠色襯衫中的一個 。
let's give him a name , too: nelson .	我們來給他一個名字:nelson 。
i'll bet nelson has a cellphone .	我會打賭nelson有手機 。
so here is the puzzle .	這裡是謎題 。
why is it that nelson has access to a cuttingedge technology , like the cellphone , but doesn't have access to a 100yearold technology for generating electric light in the home ?	為何nelson接觸到阻止的科技 , 像是手機 , 但無法取得一百歲的科技 , 才能在家裡產生電燈 ?
now , in a word , the answer is " rules . "	在一個詞中 , 答案是 「 規則 」 。
bad rules can prevent the kind of winwin solution that's available when people can bring new technologies in and make them available to someone like nelson .	不好的規則可以預防勝利的解決方案 , 當人們可以把新技術帶進去 , 讓他們能用像nelson這樣的人 。
what kinds of rules ?	什麼樣的規則 ?
the electric company in this nation operates under a rule , which says that it has to sell electricity at a very low , subsidized price in fact , a price that is so low it loses money on every unit that it sells .	這種國家的電力公司在規則下運作 , 說 , 它必須在非常低、低的價格下賣電 , 事實上 , 價格非常低 , 每單位都消失了 。
so it has neither the resources , nor the incentives , to hook up many other users .	所以 , 沒有資源 , 沒有獎勵 , 來激勵許多其他使用者 。
the president wanted to change this rule .	總統想要改變這個規則 。
he's seen that it's possible to have a different set of rules , rules where businesses earn a small profit , so they have an incentive to sign up more customers .	他看過 , 可以有不同的規則 , 規則是商業賺的小利潤 , 所以他們有更多客戶的獎勵 。
that's the kind of rules that the cellphone company that nelson purchases his telephony from operates under .	這種規則是 , nelson公司的手機公司 , 把他的電話從下方操作出來 。
the president has seen how those rules worked well .	總統看過這些規則如何運作 。
so he tried to change the rules for pricing on electricity , but ran into a firestorm of protest from businesses and consumers who wanted to preserve the existing subsidized rates .	所以他試著改變電力的規則 , 但從商業和消費者的抗議 , 他們想要保存現有的補助率 。
so he was stuck with rules that prevented him from letting the winwin solution help his country .	所以他被禁止 , 讓他無法讓贏得他 , 幫助他的國家 。
and nelson is stuck studying under the streetlights .	nelson在街道下進行研究 。
the real challenge then , is to try to figure out how we can change rules .	真正的挑戰是試著找出我們如何改變規則 。
are there some rules we can develop for changing rules ?	有些規則可以發展出改變規則嗎 ?
i want to argue that there is a general abstract insight that we can make practical , which is that , if we can give more choices to people , and more choices to leaders who , in many countries , are also people .	我想說 , 在許多國家 , 有一個普遍抽象的觀點 , 我們能做出實際的做法 , 那就是 , 如果我們能給人們更多選擇 , 更多的選擇 , 在許多國家 , 也是人 。
but , it's useful to present the opposition between these two .	但 , 這兩者之間的反對是有用的 。
because the kind of choice you might want to give to a leader , a choice like giving the president the choice to raise prices on electricity , takes away a choice that people in the economy want .	因為你可能想要給予領導者的選擇 , 例如給總統 , 給予電力的總統 , 讓經濟的人民有選擇 。
they want the choice to be able to continue consuming subsidized electric power .	他們希望能夠持續消耗電力 。
so if you give just to one side or the other , you'll have tension or friction .	所以如果你只給一面或另一邊 , 你會有緊張或摩擦力 。
but if we can find ways to give more choices to both , that will give us a set of rules for changing rules that get us out of traps .	但如果我們能找到更有選擇的方式 , 那會給我們一系列的規則 , 來改變陷阱的規則 。
now , nelson also has access to the internet .	現在 , nelson也能取得網路 。
and he says that if you want to see the damaging effects of rules , the ways that rules can keep people in the dark , look at the pictures from nasa of the earth at night .	他說 , 如果你想看到規則的損害效應 , 規則可以讓人們在黑暗中留在黑暗中 , 看看地球的照片 。
in particular check out asia .	特別檢查亞人 。
if you zoom in here , you can see north korea , in outline here , which is like a black hole compared to its neighbors .	如果你把這裡放大 , 你可以看到北韓 , 外線 , 像一個黑洞相較於鄰居的黑洞 。
now , you won't be surprised to learn that the rules in north korea keep people there in the dark .	現在 , 你不會很訝異 , 要知道北韓的規則 , 在黑暗中保持人們 。
but it is important to recognize that north korea and south korea started out with identical sets of rules in both the sense of laws and regulations , but also in the deeper senses of understandings , norms , culture , values and beliefs .	但 , 要知道北韓和南韓是很重要的 , 起源於法律和規範的一組規則 , 但 , 更深層的了解 , 文化、價值觀和信念 。
when they separated , they made choices that led to very divergent paths for their sets of rules .	當他們分開時 , 他們做出選擇 , 導致他們對規則的多樣性路徑 。
so we can change we as humans can change the rules that we use to interact with each other , for better , or for worse .	我們能改變人類的改變 , 可以改變我們使用彼此互動的規則 , 更好 , 或更糟糕 。
now let's look at another region , the caribbean .	現在我們來看看另一個地區 , 加勒比海 。
zoom in on haiti , in outline here .	在海地上放大 , 以外線為例 。
haiti is also dark , compared to its neighbor here , the dominican republic , which has about the same number of residents .	海地也是黑暗的 , 與其鄰居相比 , dominican共和黨 , 大約有相同的居民數量 。
both of these countries are dark compared to puerto rico , which has half as many residents as either haiti or the dominican republic .	這些國家都與波多黎各州的黑暗相比 , 有一半的居民是海地 , 或dominican共和黨 。
what haiti warns us is that rules can be bad because governments are weak .	海地警告我們 , 規則可能是不好的 , 因為政府是弱的 。
it's not just that the rules are bad because the government is too strong and oppressive , as in north korea .	不僅僅是規則是不好的 , 因為政府太強壯又壓迫 , 就像北韓一樣 。
so that if we want to create environments with good rules , we can't just tear down .	所以如果我們想用好的規則來創造環境 , 我們就不能只花掉掉 。
we've got to find ways to build up , as well .	我們必須找到方法來建構 , 同時也是如此 。
now , china dramatically demonstrates both the potential and the challenges of working with rules .	現在 , 中國大幅地展示了兩種可能和規則的挑戰 。
back in the beginning of the data presented in this chart , china was the world's hightechnology leader .	回到這個圖表的開端 , 中國是世界上的高科技領袖 。
chinese had pioneered technologies like steel , printing , gunpowder .	中國有先前的技術 , 像是鋼鐵、印刷、槍枝 。
but the chinese never adopted , at least in that period , effective rules for encouraging the spread of those ideas a profit motive that could have encouraged the spread .	但中國從來沒有採用過 , 至少在那段期間 , 有效的規則 , 來鼓勵那些想法的擴散 , 可以鼓勵傳播的速度 。
and they soon adopted rules which slowed down innovation and cut china off from the rest of the world .	他們很快地採用規則 , 把創新放慢 , 把中國從世界其他地方砍掉 。
so as other countries in the world innovated , in the sense both of developing newer technologies , but also developing newer rules , the chinese were cut off from those advances .	所以 , 隨著世界上其他國家創新 , 發展新的科技 , 同時也開發新規則 , 中國是從那些進步中脫離的 。
income there stayed stagnant , as it zoomed ahead in the rest of the world .	收入保持穩定 , 隨著它在世界上其他地方放大 。
this next chart looks at more recent data .	下一個查爾斯看看最近的資料 。
it plots income , average income in china as a percentage of average income in the united states .	中國平均收入 , 平均收入是美國平均收入的百分之百 。
in the '50s and '60s you can see that it was hovering at about three percent .	在50年代和60年代 , 你可以看到 , 大約百分之三 。
but then in the late '70s something changed .	但在70年代末期 , 有些改變了 。
growth took off in china . the chinese started catching up very quickly with the united states .	在中國長大 , 中國開始很快地和美國一起捕撈 。
if you go back to the map at night , you can get a clue to the process that lead to the dramatic change in rules in china .	如果你晚上回到地圖 , 你就能得到一個線索 , 引起中國的規則的戲劇改變 。
the brightest spot in china , which you can see on the edge of the outline here , is hong kong .	中國最明亮的地點 , 你可以在外線的邊緣看到 , 是香港 。
hong kong was a small bit of china that , for most of the 20th century , operated under a very different set of rules than the rest of mainland china rules that were copied from working market economies of the time , and administered by the british .	蜜蜂kong是一小部分的中國 , 大部分的20世紀 , 在一個非常不同的規則中 , 比其他主要的中國規則 , 由英國的市場經濟組成 。
in the 1950s , hong kong was a place where millions of people could go , from the mainland , to start in jobs like sewing shirts , making toys .	在1950年代 , 香港是一個地方 , 那裡有數百萬人可以從主島開始 , 例如縫紉衣服 , 製造玩具 。
but , to get on a process of increasing income , increasing skills led to very rapid growth there .	但 , 為了增加收入的過程 , 增加的技能導致了非常快速的成長 。
hong kong was also the model which leaders like deng xiaoping could copy , when they decided to move all of the mainland towards the market model .	香港也是領導人的模型 , 例如 「 憂鬱症 」 可以複製 , 當他們決定把所有主要陸地搬到市場模式時 。
but deng xiaoping instinctively understood the importance of offering choices to his people .	但 , 把焦慮視為直覺地了解 , 提供給他人的選擇的重要性 。
so instead of forcing everyone in china to shift immediately to the market model , they proceeded by creating some special zones that could do , in a sense , what britain did: make the opportunity to go work with the market rules available to the people who wanted to opt in there .	所以 , 與其在中國的每個人馬上轉移到市場模式 , 他們會創造一些特殊的區域 , 在某種意義上 , 英國的做法:讓機會和市場規則合作 。
so they created four special economic zones around hong kong: zones where chinese could come and work , and cities grew up very rapidly there ; also zones where foreign firms could come in and make things .	所以他們創造了四個特殊的經濟區 , 在那裡 , 中國人可以來工作 , 城市很快地在那裡長大 , 外國公司可以進來 , 製造東西 。
one of the zones next to hong kong has a city called shenzhen .	在香港旁邊 , 有一個城市叫做 「 牧羊 」 。
in that city there is a taiwanese firm that made the iphone that many of you have , and they made it with labor from chinese who moved there to shenzhen .	在那個城市裡 , 有一個台灣 , 讓許多人擁有的iphone , 他們用中國的勞工來搬到海外 。
so after the four special zones , there were 14 coastal cites that were open in the same sense , and eventually demonstrated successes in these places that people could opt in to , that they flocked to because of the advantages they offered .	所以 , 在四個特殊區域之後 , 有14個海岸衛星在同一個角度開放 , 最終證明成功在這些地方 , 人們可以選擇 , 他們被鎖在他們所提供的優勢中 。
demonstrated successes there led to a consensus for a move toward the market model for the entire economy .	示範了成功 , 導致整個經濟模式邁向市場模式的趨勢 。
now the chinese example shows us several points .	中國的例子顯示了幾點 。
one is: preserve choices for people .	第一是:保存人們的選擇 。
two: operate on the right scale .	第二:在正確的規模下運作 。
if you try to change the rules in a village , you could do that , but a village would be too small to get the kinds of benefits you can get if you have millions of people all working under good rules .	如果你試著改變村莊的規則 , 你就可以做到 , 但村莊太小了 , 若有數百萬人在好規則下工作 。
on the other hand , the nation is too big .	另一方面 , 國家太大了 。
if you try to change the rules in the nation , you can't give some people a chance to hold back , see how things turn out , and let others zoom ahead and try the new rules .	如果你試著改變國家的規則 , 你不能給一些人一個機會 , 看看事情如何發生 , 讓其他人往前嘗試新規則 。
but cities give you this opportunity to create new places , with new rules that people can opt in to .	但城市提供了這個機會 , 創造新的地方 , 讓人們可以選擇的新規則 。
and they're large enough to get all of the benefits that we can have when millions of us work together under good rules .	而且他們夠大 , 才能讓所有我們能在好的規則下工作 , 我們都能有好幾百萬人合作 。
so the proposal is that we conceive of something called a charter city .	所以 , 提議是 , 我們認為一個叫做chorter城市的概念 。
we start with a charter that specifies all the rules required to attract the people who we'll need to build the city .	我們從一個特定規則中開始 , 要吸引我們需要建立城市的人 。
we'll need to attract the investors who will build out the infrastructure the power system , the roads , the port , the airport , the buildings .	我們需要吸引投資者 , 才能建立基礎建設 , 電力系統、運動、機場、建築物 。
you'll need to attract firms , who will come hire the people who move there first .	你需要吸引公司 , 他們會僱用第一位移動的人 。
and you'll need to attract families , the residents who will come and live there permanently , raise their children , get an education for their children , and get their first job .	你需要吸引家人 , 他們會永久地活下來 , 養育他們的孩子 , 為他們的孩子取得教育 , 取得他們的第一份工作 。
with that charter , people will move there .	隨著那個圖表 , 人們會在那裡移動 。
the city can be built .	城市可以被建造出來 。
and we can scale this model .	我們可以擴展這個模型 。
we can go do it over and over again .	我們可以再次做一次 。
to make it work , we need good rules . we've already discussed that .	為了讓它運作 , 我們需要好的規則 。 我們已經討論了 。
those are captured in the charter .	那些被捕捉在圖中 。
we also need the choices for people .	我們也需要人們的選擇 。
that's really built into the model if we allow for the possibility of building cities on uninhabited land .	如果我們允許在無所居住的土地上建造城市的可能性 。
you start from uninhabited territory .	你從未被監禁的地位開始 。
people can come live under the new charter , but no one is forced to live under it .	人們可以在新教堂下生活 , 但沒有人被迫活在它下面 。
the final thing we need are choices for leaders .	我們所需要的最後一件事是領導人的選擇 。
and , to achieve the kind of choices we want for leaders we need to allow for the potential for partnerships between nations: cases where nations work together , in effect , de facto , the way china and britain worked together to build , first a little enclave of the market model , and then scale it throughout china .	為了達成我們想要的領導人 , 我們需要讓國家與國之間合作的潛力:國家合作 , 實際上 , 中國和英國合作的方式合作 , 首先是市場模式 , 然後將它擴大到中國 。
in a sense , britain , inadvertently , through its actions in hong kong , did more to reduce world poverty than all the aid programs that we've undertaken in the last century .	在某種意義上 , 英國 , 不明顯地 , 透過香港的行動 , 來減少世界貧窮 , 比我們在上個世紀的愛滋計畫還要多 。
so if we allow for these kind of partnerships to replicate this again , we can get those kinds of benefits scaled throughout the world .	所以如果我們能讓這些合作夥伴再次複製 , 我們就能讓這些好處在世界各地的效益擴大 。
in some cases this will involve a delegation of responsibility , a delegation of control from one country to another to take over certain kinds of administrative responsibilities .	在某些案例中 , 這會涉及一個負責任的程度 , 一個國家的控制程度 , 從一個國家到另一種 , 去採取某些負面的責任 。
now , when i say that , some of you are starting to think , " well , is this just bringing back colonialism ? "	現在 , 當我說 , 有些人開始想: 「 嗯 , 這只是帶回殖民主義嗎 ? 」
it's not . but it's important to recognize that the kind of emotions that come up when we start to think about these things , can get in the way , can make us pull back , can shut down our ability , and our interest in trying to explore new ideas .	不是 。 但重要的是 , 當我們開始思考這些東西時 , 這種情緒會出現 , 可以讓我們回想 , 可以讓我們回來 , 可以把我們的能力縮小 , 我們的興趣試圖探索新點子 。
why is this not like colonialism ?	為什麼這不是殖民主義 ?
the thing that was bad about colonialism , and the thing which is residually bad in some of our aid programs , is that it involved elements of coercion and condescension .	對於殖民主義是不好的事 , 在我們一些愛滋病計畫中 , 正是 , 它涉及了合作和欺騙的元素 。
this model is all about choices , both for leaders and for the people who will live in these new places .	這個模型是關於選擇 , 領導者和領導人 , 和那些能生活在這些新地方的人 。
and , choice is the antidote to coercion and condescension .	選擇是對合作和欺騙的抗爭 。
so let's talk about how this could play out in practice .	咱們來談談如何在練習上演出 。
let's take a particular leader , raul castro , who is the leader of cuba .	咱們來看看一個特定的領導人 , 拉多•卡羅斯 , 他是古巴領導者 。
it must have occurred to castro that he has the chance to do for cuba what deng xiaoping did for china , but he doesn't have a hong kong there on the island in cuba .	它一定發生在卡斯坦 , 他有機會在中國做些什麼 , 但他沒有在古巴島的香菸 。
he does , though , have a little bit of light down in the south that has a very special status .	不過 , 他在南方有一點點光 , 很特別的地位 。
there is a zone there , around guantanamo bay , where a treaty gives the united states administrative responsibility for a piece of land that's about twice the size of manhattan .	這裡有一個區域 , 位於吉爾亞馬灣 , 一個治療給美國政府的責任是曼哈頓的兩倍大 。
castro goes to the prime minister of canada and says , " look , the yankees have a terrible pr problem .	加拿大總理說: 「 看 , yankees有一個很糟糕的問題 。
they want to get out .	他們想出去 。
why don't you , canada , take over ?	為什麼你不 , 加拿大 , 再來吧 ?
build run a special administrative zone .	建造一個特殊的管理區 。
allow a new city to be built up there .	讓一個新城市在那裡建設 。
allow many people to come in .	讓許多人進來 。
let us have a hong kong nearby .	咱們來到附近 。
some of my citizens will move into that city as well .	我的一些市民也會搬進那個城市 。
others will hold back . but this will be the gateway that will connect the modern economy and the modern world to my country . "	其他人會抱住 , 但這將會是把現代經濟和現代世界連結到我的國家 。 」
now , where else might this model be tried ?	現在 , 其他的模型可能在哪裡試過 ?
well , africa . i've talked with leaders in africa .	非洲 , 我和非洲的領導人談過 。
many of them totally get the notion of a special zone that people can opt into as a rule .	許多人完全得到特殊區域的概念 , 讓人們可以當作規則 。
it's a rule for changing rules .	這是改變規則的規則 。
it's a way to create new rules , and let people optin without coercion , and the opposition that coercion can force .	創造新的規則 , 讓人們不合作 , 不用同心協力 , 以及同心協會的反對 。
they also totally get the idea that in some instances they can make more credible promises to longterm investors the kind of investors who will come build the port , build the roads , in a new city they can make more credible promises if they do it along with a partner nation .	他們也完全知道 , 在某些例子中 , 他們能做出更有信心的承諾 , 讓長期投資者能夠建立運動的投資者 , 在新城市中 , 他們能做出更有責任的承諾 , 如果他們和一個夥伴合作 , 就能做出更有責任的承諾 。
perhaps even in some arrangement that's a little bit like an escrow account , where you put land in the escrow account and the partner nation takes responsibility for it .	甚至在某些排列中 , 有點像是週期的帳戶 , 你把土地放在明天的帳戶和另一半國家的責任 , 要為此負責 。
there is also lots of land in africa where new cities could be built .	非洲也有許多土地 , 可以建造新的城市 。
this is a picture i took when i was flying along the coast .	這是我在沿著海岸飛行的照片 。
there are immense stretches of land like this land where hundreds of millions of people could live .	像這塊土地 , 有數百萬人可以活下來 。
now , if we generalize this and think about not just one or two charter cites , but dozens cities that will help create places for the many hundreds of millions , perhaps billions of people who will move to cities in the coming century is there enough land for them ?	現在 , 如果我們一般化 , 想想不單單單一或兩座圖表 , 但數十億個城市 , 可以為數百萬個城市創造地方 , 或許有數十億人會搬到未來的城市 , 那裡有足夠的土地 ?
well , throughout the world , if we look at the lights at night , the one thing that's misleading is that , visually , it looks like most of the world is already built out .	世界各地 , 如果我們在晚上看光 , 其中一件錯誤的事情就是 , 視覺上 , 它看起來是世界上大部分的建築已經被建造出來了 。
so let me show you why that's wrong .	讓我向各位展示為什麼這錯了 。
take this representation of all of the land .	以這個代表所有土地的代表 。
turn it into a square that stands for all the arable land on earth .	將它轉變成一個平方形 , 代表地球上所有可行的土地 。
and let these dots represent the land that's already taken up by the cities that three billion people now live in .	讓這些點代表我們已經被三十億人居住的土地 。
if you move the dots down to the bottom of the rectangle you can see that the cities for the existing three billion urban residents take up only three percent of the arable land on earth .	如果你把點移動到最底部 , 你可以看到 , 現有三十億個都市居住在地球上只有3%的阿拉伯土地 。
so if we wanted to build cities for another billion people , they would be dots like this .	所以如果我們想要為另外十億人建立城市 , 他們會這樣做 。
we'd go from three percent of the arable land , to four percent .	我們會從三成的阿拉伯土地到百分之四 。
we'd dramatically reduce the human footprint on earth by building more cities that people can move to .	我們會大幅降低地球上的人類足跡 , 透過建造更多人可以移動的城市 。
and if these are cities governed by good rules , they can be cities where people are safe from crime , safe from disease and bad sanitation , where people have a chance to get a job .	如果這些城市是好的規則 , 它們可以成為城市 , 人們從犯罪、疾病和不健康的城市 , 在那裡 , 人們有機會得到工作 。
they can get basic utilities like electricity .	它們可以得到像電力一樣基本的營運 。
their kids can get an education .	他們的孩子可以得到教育 。
so what will it take to get started building the first charter cities , scaling this so we build many more ?	那麼 , 要怎麼做才能開始建造第一個查爾斯城市 , 把這個規模擴大 , 才能建造更多呢 ?
it would help to have a manual .	它會幫助有手冊 。
what university professors could do is write some details that might go into this manual .	大學教授可以做的事是寫出一些細節 , 可能進入這個手冊 。
you wouldn't want to let us run the cities , go out and design them .	你不想讓我們經營城市 , 去設計城市 。
you wouldn't let academics out in the wild .	你不會讓學者在野外放棄 。
but , you could set us to work thinking about questions like , suppose it isn't just canada that does the deal with raul castro .	但 , 你可以讓我們思考像這樣的問題 , 假設它不僅是加拿大 , 還能處理雷達卡羅斯的交易 。
perhaps brazil comes in as a participant , and spain as well . and perhaps cuba wants to be one of the partners in a fourway joint venture .	或許巴西是參與者 , 和西班牙 , 可能是古巴想要成為一個四公路的夥伴之一 。
how would we write the treaty to do that ?	我們要如何把治療寫成這樣做 ?
there is less precedent for that , but that could easily be worked out .	這種情況比較少 , 但這可能很容易發生 。
how would we finance this ?	我們要如何改善這一點呢 ?
turns out singapore and hong kong are cities that made huge gains on the value of the land that they owned when they got started .	結果發現 , 新加坡和香港是城市 , 在他們開始時所擁有的土地有著巨大的價值 。
you could use the gains on the value of the land to pay for things like the police , the courts , but the school system and the health care system too , which make this a more attractive place to live , makes this a place where people have higher incomes which , incidentally , makes the land more valuable .	你可以用土地的價值來支付像警察、法庭 , 但學校系統和健康照護系統 , 讓這個地方更吸引人 , 讓人們有更高的收入 , 讓土地更有價值 。
so the incentives for the people helping to construct this zone and build it , and set up the basic rules , go very much in the right direction .	所以 , 人們幫忙建構這個區塊 , 建立基本規則 , 以正確的方向進行 。
so there are many other details like this .	所以還有許多其他細節 。
how could we have buildings that are low cost and affordable for people who work in a first job , assembling something like an iphone , but make those buildings energy efficient , and make sure that they are safe , so they don't fall down in an earthquake or a hurricane .	我們要如何讓建築更低的成本和可負擔得起 , 在第一份工作的工作中 , 組成像iphone , 但讓建築能有效率 , 確保它們是安全的 , 所以他們不會落在地震或颶風中 。
many technical details to be worked out , but those of us who are already starting to pursue these things can already tell that there is no roadblock , there's no impediment , other than a failure of imagination , that will keep us from delivering on a truly global winwin solution .	許多技術細節可以成功 , 但是我們已經開始追求這些事情的人 , 已經知道沒有道路 , 沒有想像力 , 沒有想像力 , 那會讓我們從真正的全球贏家解決方案 。
let me conclude with this picture .	讓我結論一下這張照片 。
the reason we can be so well off , even though there is so many people on earth , is because of the power of ideas .	我們的理由很不錯 , 雖然地球上有這麼多人 , 是因為想法的力量 。
we can share ideas with other people , and when they discover them , they share with us .	我們可以和其他人分享點子 , 當他們發現他們時 , 他們和我們分享 。
it's not like scarce objects , where sharing means we each get less .	不是很害怕的物體 , 在那裡 , 分享意味著我們每次都少了 。
when we share ideas we all get more .	當我們分享想法時 , 我們就會得到更多 。
when we think about ideas in that way , we usually think about technologies .	當我們這樣思考思想時 , 我們通常會想到科技 。
but there is another class of ideas: the rules that govern how we interact with each other ; rules like , let's have a tax system that supports a research university that gives away certain kinds of knowledge for free .	但還有另一種想法:我們如何與彼此互動的規則 ; 例如 , 讓我們有一個稅制系統 , 支持一個研究大學 , 讓某些知識免費 。
let's have a system where we have ownership of land that is registered in a government office , that people can pledge as collateral .	我們有一個系統 , 在政府辦公室中 , 我們有自己的土地 , 人們可以把它視為是冷凍的 。
if we can keep innovating on our space of rules , and particularly innovate in the sense of coming up with rules for changing rules , so we don't get stuck with bad rules , then we can keep moving progress forward and truly make the world a better place , so that people like nelson and his friends don't have to study any longer under the streetlights . thank you .	如果我們能繼續創新我們的規則 , 尤其是為了改變規則的規則而創新 , 我們不用不好的規則 , 那麼我們可以繼續進步 , 讓世界變得更好 , 像nelson和他的朋友不需要在街道下學習更久 。 謝謝 。
genomics pioneer craig venter takes a break from his epic roundtheworld expedition to talk about the millions of genes his team has discovered so far in its quest to map the ocean’s biodiversity .	基因學的先鋒從他的 " 周圍 " 中突破 , 來談談數百萬個基因 , 到目前為止 , 發現了海洋多樣性 。
dna , biosphere , biotech , entrepreneur , genetics , invention , oceans , science , technology	dna、生物圈、生物技術、創業家、基因學、發明、海洋、科學、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、技術
craig venter on dna and the sea	在dna和海上發射的火箭 。
at the break , i was asked by several people about my comments about the aging debate .	在突破時 , 我被幾個人問我關於老化辯論的評論 。
and this will be my only comment on it .	這將會是我唯一的評論 。
and that is , i understand that optimists greatly outlive pessimists .	那就是 , 我明白 , 樂觀主義者很擅長外表主義者 。
what i'm going to tell you about in my 18 minutes is how we're about to switch from reading the genetic code to the first stages of beginning to write the code ourselves .	在我18分鐘內 , 我要告訴各位 , 我們要如何從閱讀基因密碼轉換到第一階段 , 開始寫程式碼 。
it's only 10 years ago this month when we published the first sequence of a freeliving organism , that of haemophilus influenzae .	只有10年前 , 我們出版了第一次免費的生物序列 , 海氣流感染的流感 。
that took a genome project from 13 years down to four months .	這花了13年從13年到4個月的基因組計畫 。
we can now do that same genome project in the order of two to eight hours .	我們現在可以用兩到八個小時的基因組做同樣的實驗 。
so in the last decade , a large number of genomes have been added: most human pathogens , a couple of plants , several insects and several mammals , including the human genome .	所以在過去的十年裡 , 大量的基因組已經增加了:大部分人類的病原體 , 幾個植物 , 幾隻昆蟲和幾隻哺乳類動物 , 包括人類基因 。
genomics at this stage of the thinking from a little over 10 years ago was , by the end of this year , we might have between three and five genomes sequenced ; it's on the order of several hundred .	大約十年前 , 基因組在這個階段 , 到今年底 , 我們可能有三到五個基因組序列 , 以數百分之百的秩序為例 。
we just got a grant from the gordon and betty moore foundation to sequence 130 genomes this year , as a side project from environmental organisms .	我們剛從goordon和貝蒂摩爾基金會得到一個獎金 , 到今年的130個基因組 , 作為一個環保有機體的一方計畫 。
so the rate of reading the genetic code has changed .	閱讀基因密碼的速度已經改變了 。
but as we look , what's out there , we've barely scratched the surface on what is available on this planet .	但 , 正如我們所看到的 , 我們在這個星球上幾乎完全被推斷出來的表面 。
most people don't realize it , because they're invisible , but microbes make up about a half of the earth's biomass , whereas all animals only make up about one onethousandth of all the biomass .	大部分的人都不知道 , 因為他們是隱形的 , 但微生物組成了地球生物的一半 , 所有動物只能製造出大約一分之一的生物量 。
and maybe it's something that people in oxford don't do very often , but if you ever make it to the sea , and you swallow a mouthful of seawater , keep in mind that each milliliter has about a million bacteria and on the order of 10 million viruses .	也許是在牛津的人們並不常做 , 但如果你把它帶到海裡 , 你就會吞下一顆海水 , 保持一百萬個細菌 , 每一千里病毒的秩序 。
less than 5 , 000 microbial species have been characterized as of two years ago , and so we decided to do something about it .	不到五千種微生物物種被分類為兩年前 , 所以我們決定要做點什麼 。
and we started the sorcerer ii expedition , where we were , as with great oceanographic expeditions , trying to sample the ocean every 200 miles .	我們開始了 「 無形 」 的外表 , 如同我們所處的偉大的海洋進展 , 嘗試每兩百英哩的海洋樣本 。
we started in bermuda for our test project , then moved up to halifax , working down the u . s . east coast , the caribbean sea , the panama canal , through to the galapagos , then across the pacific , and we're in the process now of working our way across the indian ocean .	我們開始為我們的測試計畫開始 , 然後搬到哈里克斯 , 去加勒比海岸 , 加勒比海 , 保羅馬 , 穿越太平洋 , 我們現在在全球各地工作 。
it's very tough duty ; we're doing this on a sailing vessel , in part to help excite young people about going into science .	非常艱難 , 我們正在做這件事 , 一部分是幫助年輕人參與科學的研究 。
the experiments are incredibly simple .	實驗非常簡單 。
we just take seawater and we filter it , and we collect different size organisms on different filters , and then take their dna back to our lab in rockville , where we can sequence a hundred million letters of the genetic code every 24 hours .	我們只拿海水 , 過濾它 , 我們收集不同的大小生物 , 然後把它們的dna帶回我們的實驗室 , 每24小時的基因密碼 。
and with doing this , we've made some amazing discoveries .	有了這個 , 我們做了一些驚人的發現 。
for example , it was thought that the visual pigments that are in our eyes there was only one or two organisms in the environment that had these same pigments .	例如 , 視覺化的顏料在我們的眼中只有一到兩種生物在環境中有相同的顏料 。
it turns out , almost every species in the upper parts of the ocean in warm parts of the world have these same photoreceptors , and use sunlight as the source of their energy and communication .	結果發現 , 世界上最高的海洋中所有物種都有相同的攝影器 , 用太陽光來源來源和溝通 。
from one site , from one barrel of seawater , we discovered 1 . 3 million new genes and as many as 50 , 000 new species .	從一個地方 , 從一個海水中 , 我們發現了130萬個新的基因 , 和5萬種新的物種 。
we've extended this to the air now with a grant from the sloan foundation .	我們已經向空中延伸到空氣 , 由地板基金會所帶來的巨大 。
we're measuring how many viruses and bacteria all of us are breathing in and out every day , particularly on airplanes or closed auditoriums .	我們測量有多少病毒和細菌 , 我們每天都在呼吸 , 特別是在飛機上 , 或封閉的聲音 。
we filter through some simple apparatuses ; we collect on the order of a billion microbes from just a day filtering on top of a building in new york city .	我們過濾了一些簡單的標準 ; 我們每天收集了十億個微生物的秩序 , 在紐約市的建築物上 。
and we're in the process of sequencing all that at the present time .	而我們正處於目前的定序過程 。
just on the data collection side , just where we are through the galapagos , we're finding that almost every 200 miles , we see tremendous diversity in the samples in the ocean .	僅僅在資料集中 , 只要我們透過加拿大 , 我們發現幾乎每兩百英里 , 我們在海洋中的樣本中看到了巨大的多樣性 。
some of these make logical sense , in terms of different temperature gradients .	有些是合理的 , 在不同的溫度級級級級的角度 。
so this is a satellite photograph based on temperatures red being warm , blue being cold and we found there's a tremendous difference between the warm water samples and the cold water samples , in terms of abundant species .	這是一張衛星攝影 , 根據溫度降低的溫度 , 藍色的溫度 , 我們發現溫度水樣本和冷水樣本之間有很大的差別 。
the other thing that surprised us quite a bit is these photoreceptors detect different wavelengths of light , and we can predict that based on their amino acid sequence .	另外一個令人驚訝的是 , 這些攝影器偵測到不同的光長度 , 我們可以預測 , 根據它們的胺基酸序列來預測 。
and these vary tremendously from region to region .	而這些從區域到區域的重大性 。
maybe not surprisingly , in the deep ocean , where it's mostly blue , the photoreceptors tend to see blue light .	也許不意外地 , 在深海裡 , 它是藍色的 , 攝影師通常會看到藍光 。
when there's a lot of chlorophyll around , they see a lot of green light .	有很多的光線 , 它們會看到很多綠色的光 。
but they vary even more , possibly moving towards infrared and ultraviolet in the extremes .	但他們甚至會更有 , 可能在極端的情況下移動和紫外線 。
just to try and get an assessment of what our gene repertoire was , we assembled all the data including all of ours thus far from the expedition , which represents more than half of all the gene data on the planet and it totaled around 29 million genes .	試試看我們基因複製的評估 , 我們把所有資料組成 , 包含我們所有的資料 , 從前進 , 這代表地球上所有基因資料的一半 , 大約有2億9百萬個基因 。
and we tried to put these into gene families to see what these discoveries are: are we just discovering new members of known families , or are we discovering new families ?	我們試著把這些東西放進基因家庭 , 看看這些發現是什麼樣子:我們剛發現了已知家庭的新成員 , 或是我們發現新家庭嗎 ?
and it turns out we have about 50 , 000 major gene families , but every new sample we take in the environment adds in a linear fashion to these new families .	結果發現 , 我們有大約五萬個主要的基因家庭 , 但是我們在環境中所採取的每一樣樣樣本 , 都會在這些新家庭中加上線性 。
so we're at the earliest stages of discovery about basic genes , components and life on this planet .	所以 , 我們正處於最早的研究階段 , 關於基本基因、組成和生命 。
when we look at the socalled evolutionary tree , we're up on the upper righthand corner with the animals .	當我們觀察所謂的演化樹 , 我們在右上角和動物的右上角 。
of those roughly 29 million genes , we only have around 24 , 000 in our genome .	在這些大約2億9百萬個基因中 , 我們只有24 , 000個基因 。
and if you take all animals together , we probably share less than 30 , 000 and probably maybe a dozen or more thousand different gene families .	如果你把所有動物聚在一起 , 我們可能有不到三萬個 , 也許有數十萬個不同的基因家庭 。
i view that these genes are now not only the design components of evolution .	我認為這些基因現在不僅是演化的設計元素 。
and we think in a genecentric view maybe going back to richard dawkins' ideas than in a genomecentric view , which are different constructs of these gene components .	我們認為 , 在一個慷慨的觀點 , 也許回到理查•達金斯的點子 , 比基因組的角度來說 , 這種基因組成的不同 。
synthetic dna , the ability to synthesize dna , has changed at sort of the same pace that dna sequencing has over the last decade or two , and is getting very rapid and very cheap .	合成dna , 合成dna的能力 , 在過去十年間 , dna定序已經改變了dna序列的速度 , 兩次 , 變得非常快速 , 非常便宜 。
our first thought about synthetic genomics came when we sequenced the second genome back in 1995 , and that from mycoplasma genitalium .	我們第一次想到合成基因組在1995年完成第二個基因組 , 從菌絲體基因組開始 。
and we have really nice tshirts that say , you know , " i heart my genitalium . "	我們有很棒的t恤會說: 「 我心愛我的天賦 。 」
this is actually just a microorganism .	這其實只是個微生物 。
but it has roughly 500 genes .	但它有大約500個基因 。
haemophilus had 1 , 800 genes .	哈姆斯有1 , 800個基因 。
and we simply asked the question , if one species needs 800 , another 500 , is there a smaller set of genes that might comprise a minimal operating system ?	我們只是問一個問題 , 如果一個物種需要800 , 另一個500 , 另一個500種基因是否比較小的基因 ?
so we started doing transposon mutagenesis .	所以 , 我們開始做交通突變 。
transposons are just small pieces of dna that randomly insert in the genetic code .	翻譯者只是小小的dna , 隨機地在基因密碼中隨機的固定 。
and if they insert in the middle of the gene , they disrupt its function .	如果它們在基因中間 , 它們會破壞它的功能 。
so we made a map of all the genes that could take transposon insertions and we called those " nonessential genes . "	所以 , 我們製作了所有可以採取移植器官的基因圖 , 我們稱之為 「 目的基因 」 。
but it turns out the environment is very critical for this , and you can only define an essential or nonessential gene based on exactly what's in the environment .	但事實證明 , 環境是非常關鍵的 , 而你只能定義一個必要的基因基於環境中真正的基礎 。
we also tried to take a more directly intellectual approach with the genomes of 13 related organisms , and we tried to compare all of those , to see what they had in common .	我們也試著用一個更直接的智能方法來處理13個相關的機體基因組 , 我們試著比較所有這些 , 看看它們的共同點 。
and we got these overlapping circles . and we found only 173 genes common to all 13 organisms .	我們得到了這些重疊的圓圈 , 我們發現 , 只有173個基因與13個生物相同 。
the pool expanded a little bit if we ignored one intracellular parasite ; it expanded even more when we looked at core sets of genes of around 310 or so .	如果我們忽視一個吸引寄生蟲 , 就會擴張更多 , 甚至在我們檢視的核心基因的核心基因 。
so we think that we can expand or contract genomes , depending on your point of view here , to maybe 300 to 400 genes from the minimal of 500 .	因此我們認為我們可以擴大或收縮基因組 , 依據你的觀點 , 大約有300到400個基因 。
the only way to prove these ideas was to construct an artificial chromosome with those genes in them , and we had to do this in a cassettebased fashion .	為了證明這些想法的唯一方法就是建立一個人工的染色體 , 用這些基因來建構 , 我們必須在一個基礎的時尚上做這件事 。
we found that synthesizing accurate dna in large pieces was extremely difficult .	我們發現在大片的dna中合成dna非常困難 。
ham smith and clyde hutchison , my colleagues on this , developed an exciting new method that allowed us to synthesize a 5 , 000base pair virus in only a twoweek period that was 100 percent accurate , in terms of its sequence and its biology .	哈姆•史密和clythutson , 我的同事在這個方面 , 開發了一個令人興奮的新方法 , 讓我們合成一個五千巴基病毒 , 只有兩百分之二的病毒 , 只有百分之百的序列和其生物學 。
it was a quite exciting experiment when we just took the synthetic piece of dna , injected it in the bacteria and all of a sudden , that dna started driving the production of the virus particles that turned around and then killed the bacteria .	這是個很令人興奮的實驗當我們剛剛拿到細菌的合成dna注射 , 突然間 , dna開始驅動病毒粒子的生產 , 然後殺死細菌 。
this was not the first synthetic virus a polio virus had been made a year before but it was only one tenthousandth as active and it took three years to do .	這不是第一個合成病毒的病毒 , 早在一個小兒麻痺病毒已經一年了 , 但只有一個十分之一的活躍 , 需要三年才能做到 。
this is a cartoon of the structure of phi x 174 .	這是phix174的構造 。
this is a case where the software now builds its own hardware , and that's the notions that we have with biology .	這個例子 , 軟體現在建立了自己的硬體 , 那就是我們和生物學有的概念 。
people immediately jump to concerns about biological warfare , and i had recent testimony before a senate committee , and a special committee the u . s . government has set up to review this area .	人們馬上跳到生物戰場的情況下 , 我最近在參議會委員會之前 , 一個特別的委員會 , 政府開始審視這個區域 。
and i think it's important to keep reality in mind , versus what happens with people's imaginations .	我認為 , 要讓現實保持在心中 , 和人們的想像會發生什麼事 。
basically , any virus that's been sequenced today that genome can be made .	基本上 , 現今的任何病毒都被序列出來 , 基因組可以被製造出來 。
and people immediately freak out about things about ebola or smallpox , but the dna from this organism is not infective .	人們馬上對伊波拉或天花的事物感到驚訝 , 但這個有機體的dna不是感染的 。
so even if somebody made the smallpox genome , that dna itself would not cause infections .	所以即使有人做了天花基因 , dna本身不會造成感染 。
the real concern that security departments have is designer viruses .	安全部門的真正關心是設計師的病毒 。
and there's only two countries , the u . s . and the former soviet union , that had major efforts on trying to create biological warfare agents .	只有兩個國家 , 美國和前蘇聯 , 有著重大的努力 , 試圖創造生物暖化機構 。
if that research is truly discontinued , there should be very little activity on the knowhow to make designer viruses in the future .	如果這個研究真的很不穩定 , 該對未來的設計病毒有非常少的活動 。
i think singlecell organisms are possible within two years .	我認為單細胞有機體在兩年內可能 。
and possibly eukaryotic cells , those that we have , are possible within a decade .	可能是真實的細胞 , 在十年內 , 我們所擁有的這些細胞是可能的 。
so we're now making several dozen different constructs , because we can vary the cassettes and the genes that go into this artificial chromosome .	所以現在我們現在製造了數十個不同的建設 , 因為我們可以把這些洞穴和基因放進這個人工染色體中 。
the key is , how do you put all of the others ?	關鍵是 , 你要如何把所有人放進去 ?
we start with these fragments , and then we have a homologous recombination system that reassembles those into a chromosome .	我們從這些碎片開始 , 然後我們有了一系列的重新組合系統 , 將這些物質組合成一種染色體 。
this is derived from an organism , deinococcus radiodurans , that can take three million rads of radiation and not be killed .	這是來自有機體 , 丹麥無線電廠 , 可以用三百萬個輻射 , 而不是被殺害 。
it reassembles its genome after this radiation burst in about 12 to 24 hours , after its chromosomes are literally blown apart .	它將基因組組成大約12到24小時 , 在它的染色體中 , 會分離 。
this organism is ubiquitous on the planet , and exists perhaps now in outer space due to all our travel there .	這個有機體在地球上 , 可能存在於外太空 , 是因為我們的旅行都存在 。
this is a glass beaker after about half a million rads of radiation .	這是一杯玻璃啤酒 , 超過一千五百萬的輻射 。
the glass started to burn and crack , while the microbes sitting in the bottom just got happier and happier .	玻璃開始燃燒和裂縫 , 當微生物坐在底部時 , 就會變得更快樂 , 更快樂 。
here's an actual picture of what happens: the top of this shows the genome after 1 . 7 million rads of radiation .	這是一張實際的圖片:這張圖表上方顯示了基因組的1.7萬個輻射 。
the chromosome is literally blown apart .	染色體分裂了 。
and here's that same dna automatically reassembled 24 hours later .	這是同樣的dna自動組成24小時後 ,
it's truly stunning that these organisms can do that , and we probably have thousands , if not tens of thousands , of different species on this planet that are capable of doing that .	真的很奇怪 , 這些生物可以做到這一點 , 我們可能有數千個 , 如果這星球上有數萬種不同的物種 , 可以做到 。
after these genomes are synthesized , the first step is just transplanting them into a cell without a genome .	在這些基因組被合成之後 , 第一步就是把它們移植成一個細胞 , 沒有基因組 。
so we think synthetic cells are going to have tremendous potential , not only for understanding the basis of biology but for hopefully environmental and society issues .	所以我們認為合成細胞將會有很大的潛力 , 不僅為了了解生物學的基礎 , 而是希望環境和社會議題 。
for example , from the third organism we sequenced , methanococcus jannaschii it lives in boiling water temperatures ; its energy source is hydrogen and all its carbon comes from co2 it captures back from the environment .	例如 , 從我們定序的第三個有機體 , 甲烷酸化 , 用來製造水溫度 ; 它的能量來源是氫 , 所有的碳都來自於環境中 。
so we know lots of different pathways , thousands of different organisms now that live off of co2 , and can capture that back .	所以 , 我們知道很多不同的路徑 , 數千種不同的生物在二氧化碳中生存 , 可捕捉到它 。
so instead of using carbon from oil for synthetic processes , we have the chance of using carbon and capturing it back from the atmosphere , converting that into biopolymers or other products .	所以 , 不是用石油來製造合成過程的碳 , 而是使用碳的機率 , 將它從大氣中取回 , 轉換成生物聚合物或其他產品 。
we have one organism that lives off of carbon monoxide , and we use as a reducing power to split water to produce hydrogen and oxygen .	我們有一種生物可以從二氧化碳中生存 , 我們用它來分解水 , 來產生氫和氧氣 。
also , there's numerous pathways that can be engineered metabolizing methane .	此外 , 有很多道路可以被工程的甲烷製造出來 。
and dupont has a major program with statoil in norway to capture and convert the methane from the gas fields there into useful products .	塵埃有一個主要程式 , 用挪威的石油來捕集並將甲烷轉換成有用的產品 。
within a short while , i think there's going to be a new field called " combinatorial genomics , " because with these new synthesis capabilities , these vast gene array repertoires and the homologous recombination , we think we can design a robot to make maybe a million different chromosomes a day .	在短短的一段時間內 , 我想 , 將會有一個新的領域 , 叫做 「 組合基因組 」 , 因為這些新的合成能力 , 這些廣大的基因復原 , 和整體的組合 , 我們認為我們可以設計一個機器人 , 製造出一百萬個不同的染色體 。
and therefore , as with all biology , you get selection through screening , whether you're screening for hydrogen production , or chemical production , or just viability .	因此 , 如同所有生物學 , 透過篩選 , 不管你在篩選氫生產 , 或化學生產 , 或可能性 。
to understand the role of these genes is going to be well within reach .	為了了解這些基因的角色 , 會很好 。
we're trying to modify photosynthesis to produce hydrogen directly from sunlight .	我們試圖將光合作用直接從陽光產生氫 。
photosynthesis is modulated by oxygen , and we have an oxygeninsensitive hydrogenase that we think will totally change this process .	光合作用是氧化合成的 , 我們有氧氣敏感的氫氣 , 我們認為它會完全改變這個過程 。
we're also combining cellulases , the enzymes that break down complex sugars into simple sugars and fermentation in the same cell for producing ethanol .	我們也結合細胞 , 酵素會把複雜的糖分分分解成簡單的糖和肥料 , 以同一個細胞來生產乙醇 。
pharmaceutical production is already under way in major laboratories using microbes .	藥品生產已經用微生物來進行重大的實驗室 。
the chemistry from compounds in the environment is orders of magnitude more complex than our best chemists can produce .	環境中化合物的化學物質 , 比我們最好的化學學家還複雜 。
i think future engineered species could be the source of food , hopefully a source of energy , environmental remediation and perhaps replacing the petrochemical industry .	我認為未來的工程物種可能是食物的來源 , 希望是能源、環保的來源 , 或許會取代石化產業 。
let me just close with ethical and policy studies .	讓我用道德和政策研究來結尾 。
we delayed the start of our experiments in 1999 until we completed a yearandahalf bioethical review as to whether we should try and make an artificial species .	我們在1999年開始了實驗的開始 , 直到我們完成了一年半的生物倫理審查 , 我們應該試著做出人工物種 。
every major religion participated in this .	每個主要宗教都參與了這個 。
it was actually a very strange study , because the various religious leaders were using their scriptures as law books , and they couldn't find anything in them prohibiting making life , so it must be ok . the only ultimate concerns were biological warfare aspects of this , but gave us the go ahead to start these experiments for the reasons we were doing them .	這其實是非常奇怪的研究 , 因為許多宗教領袖在用他們的描述來做法律書 , 他們找不到任何東西 , 所以它一定是有生存的 , 唯一的結論是生物戰略的面向 , 但給了我們開始進行這些實驗 。
right now the sloan foundation has just funded a multiinstitutional study on this , to work out what the risk and benefits to society are , and the rules that scientific teams such as my own should be using in this area , and we're trying to set good examples as we go forward .	目前sloan基金會基金會基金會基金會基於這個研究 , 來找出社會風險和利益的風險 , 以及我自己的科學團隊 , 例如我該用這個區域 , 我們正在嘗試設定好的例子 。
these are complex issues .	這些是複雜的問題 。
except for the threat of bioterrorism , they're very simple issues in terms of , can we design things to produce clean energy , perhaps revolutionizing what developing countries can do and provide through various simple processes .	除了生物恐怖主義的威脅 , 它們是非常簡單的議題 , 我們能設計一些東西來製造乾淨能源 , 也許革命發展開發中國家能做些什麼 , 透過各種簡單的過程來提供 。
psychologist philip zimbardo says happiness and success are rooted in a trait most of us disregard: the way we orient toward the past , present and future . he suggests we calibrate our outlook on time as a first step to improving our lives .	心理學家菲利普•辛巴羅說幸福和成功在我們大多數人的特徵中被根除:我們對過去、現在和未來的方式 。 他建議我們將我們在一步改善生活的第一步 。
brain , business , happiness , mind , psychology , science	大腦、商業、快樂、思想、心理學、科學、科學學、科學、知識、知識 。
philip zimbardo prescribes a healthy take on time	philipszimbardo的處方是健康的 , 需要時間的時間 。
i want to share with you some ideas about the secret power of time , in a very short time .	我想和大家分享一些關於時間的秘密力量 , 在很短的時間裡 。
video: all right , start the clock please . 30 seconds studio .	影片:好的 , 開始開車 。 三十秒鐘的工作室 。
keep it quiet please . settle down .	讓它安靜下來 , 安靜下來 。
it's about time . end sequence . take one .	重點是時間 。 最後 , 拿一個 。
10 , nine , eight , seven , six , five , four , three , two . . .	十、九、八、七、五、四、三、二、二......
philip zimbardo: let's tune into the conversation of the principals in adam's temptation .	philipszimardo:我們來談談亞當斯坦的誘惑 。
" come on adam , don't be so wishywashy . take a bite . " " i did . "	「 來到亞當 , 不要太願望 , 拿一點點 。 」 「 我做了 。 」
" one bite , adam . don't abandon eve . "	「 一個 , adam , 不要放棄eandoneve 。 」
" i don't know , guys .	「 我不知道 , 各位 。
i don't want to get in trouble . "	我不想去麻煩 。 」
" okay . one bite . what the hell ? "	「 好吧 , 再一點 。 什麼是哈囉 ? 」
life is temptation . it's all about yielding , resisting , yes , no , now , later , impulsive , reflective , present focus and future focus .	生命是誘惑 , 全是關於消失、抗拒 , 是的 , 沒錯 , 沒錯 , 反射性、反射性、現在焦慮和未來的焦點 。
promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment .	承諾的虛擬落下了現在的熱情 。
of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage thank you george bush the majority , 60 percent , yielded to sexual temptations within one year .	十幾歲的女孩 , 被性侵害和惡性結婚 , 直到結婚 , 感謝大部份的布希 , 60% , 在一年內 , 被性誘惑給性誘惑 。
and most of them did so without using birth control .	大部分的人都這麼做 , 沒有出生的控制 。
so much for promises .	為了承諾 。
now lets tempt fouryearolds , giving them a treat .	現在讓我們暫停四歲的孩子 , 給他們一個治療 。
they can have one marshmallow now . but if they wait until the experimenter comes back , they can have two .	他們現在可以有一顆棉花粉 , 但如果他們等到實驗者回來 , 它們就有兩個 。
of course it pays , if you like marshmallows , to wait .	當然 , 要付錢 , 如果你喜歡馬拉夫 , 等待 。
what happens is twothirds of the kids give in to temptation .	結果是三分之二的孩子提供誘惑 。
they cannot wait . the others , of course , wait .	他們無法等待 , 當然 , 其他人 , 等等 。
they resist the temptation . they delay the now for later .	他們反抗了誘惑 , 後來他們就把現在放棄了 。
walter mischel , my colleague at stanford , went back 14 years later , to try to discover what was different about those kids .	威爾特•米克爾 , 我在史丹佛的同事 , 回到14年後 , 試圖發現那些孩子的不同 。
there were enormous differences between kids who resisted and kids who yielded , in many ways .	在許多方面 , 有巨大的差異 , 他們對抗了抗和孩子 , 在許多方面都有很大的差異 。
the kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the sat .	抗拒了250點的孩子 , 坐在桌子上 , 比較高 。
that's enormous . that's like a whole set of different iq points .	這很巨大 , 就像一組不同的智商點一樣 。
they didn't get in as much trouble . they were better students .	他們沒有太麻煩了 , 他們是更好的學生 。
they were selfconfident and determined . and the key for me today , the key for you , is , they were futurefocused rather than presentfocused .	他們是自信和決心的 , 對我今天的關鍵 , 對你來說 , 關鍵是 , 他們是未來的折磨而非正式的 。
so what is time perspective ? that's what i'm going to talk about today .	那麼 , 時間觀點是什麼 ? 這就是我今天要談的 。
time perspective is the study of how individuals , all of us , divide the flow of your human experience into time zones or time categories .	時間觀點是研究個人的研究 , 我們所有人 , 分析你的人類體驗的流量 , 或時間分類 。
and you do it automatically and nonconsciously .	你自動地做它 , 無意識地做 。
they vary between cultures , between nations , between individuals , between social classes , between education levels .	他們之間的文化和國家之間的關係 , 在社會階級之間 , 不同教育層面之間 。
and the problem is that they can become biased , because you learn to overuse some of them and underuse the others .	問題是 , 他們可以被偏見 , 因為你學會去克服一些人 , 和地下地下 。
what determines any decision you make ?	什麼決定你做出任何決定 ?
you make a decision on which you're going to base an action .	你做出一個決定 , 你要打擊行動 。
for some people it's only about what is in the immediate situation , what other people are doing and what you're feeling .	對某些人來說 , 只有在立即的情況下 , 其他人在做什麼 , 以及你所感受的是什麼 。
and those people , when they make their decisions in that format we're going to call them " presentoriented , " because their focus is what is now .	而這些人 , 當他們在這個形式中做出決策 , 我們會稱他們為 「 禮物 」 , 因為他們焦點現在是現在的 。
for others , the present is irrelevant .	對其他人來說 , 現況是不相關的 。
it's always about " what is this situation like that i've experienced in the past ? "	一直在於 「 我過去經歷過的情況是什麼樣子 ? 」
so that their decisions are based on past memories .	所以 , 他們的決策是基於過去的記憶 。
and we're going to call those people " pastoriented , " because they focus on what was .	我們將稱之為 「 過去 」 , 因為他們專注於什麼 。
for others it's not the past , it's not the present , it's only about the future .	對其他人來說 , 這不是過去 , 不是現在的 , 而是關於未來 。
their focus is always about anticipated consequences .	他們的焦點總是在預期後果 。
we're going to call them " futureoriented . " their focus is on what will be .	我們會稱它們為 「 未來 」 。 他們的焦點在什麼樣子上 。
so , time paradox , i want to argue , the paradox of time perspective , is something that influences every decision you make , you're totally unaware of .	所以 , 時間矛盾 , 我想說 , 時間觀點的矛盾 , 是你做出的每一個決定 , 你完全沒有意識 。
namely , the extent to which you have one of these biased time perspectives .	意思是 , 你有一個偏見的時間觀點 。
well there is actually six of them . there are two ways to be presentoriented .	嗯 , 其實有六個人 , 有兩種方式可以出現 。
there is two ways to be pastoriented , two ways to be future .	有兩種方式可以被遺忘 , 兩種方式來成為未來 。
you can focus on pastpositive , or pastnegative .	你可以把焦點放在過去 , 或被負擔 。
you can be presenthedonistic , namely you focus on the joys of life , or presentfatalist it doesn't matter , your life is controlled .	你可能是現代化的 , 叫做你專注於生命的喜悅 , 或現場主義者 , 不重要 , 你的生命是被控制的 。
you can be futureoriented , setting goals .	你可能是未來的 , 設定目標 。
or you can be transcendental future: namely , life begins after death .	或者 , 你可以是透明的未來:名字是 , 生命從死後開始 。
developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidly depending on the demands of the situation , that's what you've got to learn to do .	發展出心理的靈活性 , 轉變時間的觀點 , 依賴這種情況的需求 , 那就是你必須學會做的事 。
so , very quickly , what is the optimal time profile ?	所以 , 很快地 , 最樂觀的時間是怎樣的 ?
high on pastpositive . moderately high on future .	高度承認性 。 在未來 , 溫度上升 。
and moderate on presenthedonism .	改善現代主義 。
and always low on pastnegative and presentfatalism .	總是在過去和現代主義下低落 。
so the optimal temporal mix is what you get from the past pastpositive gives you roots . you connect your family , identity and your self .	所以 , 最佳的暫時混合物是你從過去的背景中得到的樣子 。 你將你的家人、身份、自我連結起來 。
what you get from the future is wings to soar to new destinations , new challenges .	你從未來的翅膀到新目的地 , 新的挑戰 。
what you get from the present hedonism is the energy , the energy to explore yourself , places , people , sensuality .	你所得到的 , 是能源、能源 , 來探索自己、地方、人、人 , 感官 。
any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives .	任何次的觀點都比正面積更負面 。
what do futures sacrifice for success ?	未來能為成功犧牲什麼 ?
they sacrifice family time . they sacrifice friend time .	他們犧牲家庭的時間 。 他們犧牲朋友的時間 。
they sacrifice fun time . they sacrifice personal indulgence .	他們犧牲時間 , 犧牲了個人的迫切期待 。
they sacrifice hobbies . and they sacrifice sleep . so it affects their health .	他們犧牲了同性戀 , 她們犧牲睡眠 , 所以它會影響他們的健康 。
and they live for work , achievement and control .	他們生活在工作上 , 成就和控制 。
i'm sure that resonates with some of the tedsters .	我相信 , 和一些ted的一些人共鳴 。
and it resonated for me . i grew up as a poor kid in the south bronx ghetto , a sicilian family everyone lived in the past and present .	對我來說 , 我是南布朗克斯•蓋托的貧窮孩子 , 一位醫師家人都住在過去和現場 。
i'm here as a futureoriented person who went over the top , who did all these sacrifices because teachers intervened , and made me future oriented .	我來到這裡 , 身為一名未來的人 , 他們都做這些犧牲 , 因為老師被介入 , 讓我未來 。
told me don't eat that marshmallow , because if you wait you're going to get two of them , until i learned to balance out .	告訴我 , 不吃馬拉夫 , 因為如果你等待你兩個人 , 直到我學會平衡 。
i've added presenthedonism , i've added a focus on the pastpositive , so , at 76 years old , i am more energetic than ever , more productive , and i'm happier than i have ever been .	我加入了 「 現代主義 」 , 我把焦點放在過去七十六歲 , 我比以前更有生產力 , 比我更快樂 。
i just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems: changing the dropout rates of school kids , combating addictions , enhancing teen health , curing vets' ptsd with time metaphors getting miracle cures promoting sustainability and conservation , reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50percent drop out rate , altering appeals to suicidal terrorists , and modifying family conflicts as timezone clashes .	我只是想說 , 我們正應用在許多世界問題上:改變學校的比率 , 將成癮者結合成青少年的健康 , 治理了魔術的策略 , 促進了永續發展和保育 , 減少有五十分之一的身體反抗 , 改變了自殺恐怖攻擊的恐怖分子 。
so i want to end by saying: many of life's puzzles can be solved by understanding your time perspective and that of others .	最後我想說的是:許多生命的謎題 , 可以透過了解你的時間觀點和其他的事物來解決 。
and the idea is so simple , so obvious , but i think the consequences are really profound .	而這個想法很簡單 , 很明顯 , 但我認為後果真的很深刻 。
how many of today's headlines will matter in 100 years ? 1000 ? kirk citron's " long news " project collects stories that not only matter today , but will resonate for decades even centuries to come . at ted2010 , he highlights recent headlines with the potential to shape our future .	現今有多少人的頭條會在一百年內 ? 一百年 ? kirkcron的 「 長期消息 」 計畫 , 不僅僅是現今的重要數十年 , 甚至在ted2010年時 , 他的頭條很近期的頭條線 , 可以形塑我們的未來 。
future , global issues , media , news , science	未來 , 全球性的議題、媒體、新聞、科學、科學、科學 。
kirk citron: and now , the real news	kirkcitron:現在 , 真正的新聞是真正的新聞 。
we are drowning in news .	我們在消息中淹沒了 。
reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year .	僅僅僅是每年有三千五百萬個新聞報導 。
that's just one source .	這只是一個來源 。
my question is: how many of those stories are actually going to matter in the long run ?	我的問題是:在漫長的過程中有多少故事會很重要 ?
that's the idea behind the long news .	這是長期消息背後的點子 。
it's a project by the long now foundation , which was founded by tedsters including kevin kelly and stewart brand .	這是一個很長的基金會 , 由tedtster所創立的專案 , 包括kevinkelly和stewart品牌 。
and what we're looking for is news stories that might still matter 50 or 100 or 10 , 000 years from now .	而我們正在尋找的新聞故事 , 可能是現在的50到100 , 000年之久 。
and when you look at the news through that filter , a lot falls by the wayside .	當你看過那些過濾器的新聞時 , 很多是從路上降落的 。
to take the top stories from the a . p . this last year , is this going to matter in a decade ?	去年 , 要從a.p 。 去年 , 這會在十年內很重要嗎 ?
is this going to matter in 50 or 100 years ?	在50或100年內 , 這會發生什麼事嗎 ?
okay , that was kind of cool .	好的 , 這有點酷 。
but the top story of this past year was the economy , and i'm just betting that , sooner or later , this particular recession is going to be old news .	但 , 過去的今年 , 最重要的故事是經濟 , 很快地 , 不久後 , 這種特定的衰退將會是古老的消息 。
so , what kind of stories might make a difference for the future ?	那麼 , 哪些故事對未來有差別 ?
well , let's take science .	嗯 , 讓我們來看看科學 。
someday , little robots will go through our bloodstreams fixing things .	某天 , 小機器人會通過我們的血液修復物品 。
that someday is already here if you're a mouse .	某天就已經存在了 , 如果你是老鼠 。
some recent stories: nanobees zap tumors with real bee venom ; they're sending genes into the brain ; a robot they built that can crawl through the human body .	有些最近的故事:奈米粒子用真正的蜜蜂毒 , 它們會把基因送到大腦裡 ; 一個可以穿過人類身體的機器人 。
what about resources ? how are we going to feed nine billion people ?	那麼資源呢 ? 我們要如何餵飽九十億人 ?
we're having trouble feeding six billion today .	我們現在有麻煩今天的餵食了六十億人 。
as we heard yesterday , there's over a billion people hungry .	昨天我們聽到的 , 有超過十億人飢餓 。
britain will starve without genetically modified crops .	英國將恆星 , 沒有基因改造作物 。
bill gates , fortunately , has bet a billion on [agricultural] research .	很幸運的是 , 比爾蓋茲有十億的研究 。
what about global politics ?	全球政治呢 ?
the world's going to be very different when and if china sets the agenda , and they may .	世界會很不一樣 , 如果中國設立了廣告 , 他們就可能是這樣 。
they've overtaken the u . s . as the world's biggest car market , they've overtaken germany as the largest exporter , and they've started doing dna tests on kids to choose their careers .	他們已經過度了美國最大的汽車市場 , 他們已經把德國超越了德國 , 他們開始在孩子身上做dna測試 , 選擇他們的職業 。
we're finding all kinds of ways to push back the limits of what we know .	我們找到各種方法來推回我們所知的限制 。
some recent discoveries: there's an ant colony from argentina that has now spread to every continent but antarctica ; there's a selfdirected robot scientist that's made a discovery soon , science may no longer need us , and life may no longer need us either ; a microbe wakes up after 120 , 000 years .	一些最近的發現:阿根廷有一隻螞蟻 , 現在已經傳播到每一塊大陸 , 但南極洲 ; 有一種自主的機器人科學家 , 很快就不需要我們 , 科學也不需要我們 , 生命也不需要我們 ; 一顆微生物在120萬年後爆發 。
it seems that with or without us , life will go on .	看來 , 沒有我們 , 生命會繼續下去 。
but my pick for the top long news story of this past year was this one: water found on the moon .	但 , 今年的最大新聞報導是這個:在月球上找到的水 。
makes it a lot easier to put a colony up there .	讓它變得更容易讓蟻群更容易 。
and if nasa doesn't do it , china might , or somebody in this room might write a big check .	如果美國太空總署不這麼做 , 中國可能 , 或在座的某個人可能會寫一個大的檢查 。
my point is this: in the long run , some news stories are more important than others .	我的重點是:在漫長的跑步中 , 有些新聞比其他人更重要 。
planetary scientist carolyn porco shows images from the cassini voyage to saturn , focusing on its largest moon , titan , and on frozen enceladus , which seems to shoot jets of ice .	行星科學家卡林普林科展出來自卡斯坦航行到土星 , 專注於其最大的月球、泰坦的土衛二 , 這似乎是拍攝冰冰的噴射 。
nasa , design , exploration , science , space , technology , universe , visualizations	太空總署、設計、探索、科學、空間、科技、宇宙、視覺化的視覺化
carolyn porco flies us to saturn	卡林林•皮羅弗林 , 我們要滿足我們 , 來滿足我們 。
in the next 18 minutes , i'm going to take you on a journey .	接下來的十八分鐘 , 我要帶你們到一個旅程 。
and it's a journey that you and i have been on for many years now , and it began some 50 years ago , when humans first stepped off our planet .	這是你和我過去幾年的旅程 , 大約五十年前 , 人類第一次站在地球上 。
and in those 50 years , not only did we literally , physically set foot on the moon , but we have dispatched robotic spacecraft to all the planets all eight of them and we have landed on asteroids , we have rendezvoused with comets , and , at this point in time , we have a spacecraft on its way to pluto , the body formerly known as a planet .	在那五十年裡 , 我們不僅僅在月球上設立實體的腳步 , 但我們已經將機械太空船分散到所有星球上 , 我們已經被登陸了 , 和彗星一樣 , 在此時 , 我們有了一艘太空船 , 我們有著太空船在它的行星上 , 身為行星 。
and all of these robotic missions are part of a bigger human journey: a voyage to understand something , to get a sense of our cosmic place , to understand something of our origins , and how earth , our planet , and we , living on it , came to be .	所有這些機器人任務都是一個更大的人類旅程之一:旅程 , 去了解我們的宇宙 , 了解我們的起源 , 以及地球 , 我們的地球 , 來到達它 。
and of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this , there's saturn . and we have been to saturn before we visited saturn in the early 1980s but our investigations of saturn have become far more indepth in detail since the cassini spacecraft , traveling across interplanetary space for seven years , glided into orbit around saturn in the summer of 2004 , and became at that point the farthest robotic outpost that humanity had ever established around the sun .	太陽系的所有地方 , 我們可能去尋找像這樣的問題的答案 , 在1980年代初 , 我們已經坐下了土星 , 但土星的調查變得更獨立 , 從卡斯坦太空船到達七年之內 , 在2004年夏天的夏天 , 以來 , 旅行在西尼號太空船旅行的軌道上 , 進入了地球軌道的軌道 , 變成了人類在太陽的最遠的地方 。
now , the saturn system is a rich planetary system .	土星系統是富有的星球系統 。
it offers mystery , scientific insight and obviously splendor beyond compare , and the investigation of this system has enormous cosmic reach .	它提供了神秘的、科學的洞見 , 顯然地分析 , 與這個系統的調查有著巨大的宇宙 。
in fact , just studying the rings alone , we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies .	事實上 , 單靠研究ring , 我們就學到很多關於恆星的距離和氣體 , 我們稱之為 「 螺旋星系 」 。
and here's a beautiful picture of the andromeda nebula , which is our closest , largest spiral galaxy to the milky way .	這是一幅美麗的安德羅馬阿拉•尼布拉 , 這是我們最接近的 , 最大的螺旋星系 。
and then , here's a beautiful composite of the whirlpool galaxy , taken by the hubble space telescope .	接著 , 這是一塊美麗的小屋星系 , 由哈伯太空望遠鏡所拍攝的 。
so the journey back to saturn is really part of and is also a metaphor for a much larger human voyage to understand the interconnectedness of everything around us , and also how humans fit into that picture .	所以 , 回到土星的旅程是非常的一部分 , 也是一個比喻 , 為了更大的人類航空 , 來了解周圍的所有事物之間的連結 , 以及人類如何融入這張照片 。
and it pains me that i can't tell you all that we have learned with cassini .	這讓我無法告訴你們我們 , 我們所學到的都是卡斯坦 。
i can't show you all the beautiful pictures that we've taken in the last two and a half years , because i simply don't have the time .	我不能給你們看我們過去兩年半的美麗照片 , 因為我沒有時間 。
so i'm going to concentrate on two of the most exciting stories that have emerged out of this major exploratory expedition that we are conducting around saturn , and have been for the past two and a half years .	所以 , 我要把兩個最令人興奮的故事集中在這個重大的探險探險探險進展中 , 我們已經在土星進行了兩年半 。
saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons .	土星被一個非常大且多樣化的月球組合在一起 。
they range in size from a few kilometers across to as big across as the u . s .	他們從幾公里遠離美國的大小 , 橫跨到美國 。
most of the beautiful pictures we've taken of saturn , in fact , show saturn in accompaniment with some of its moons . here's saturn with dione , and then , here's saturn showing the rings edgeon , showing you just how vertically thin they are , with the moon enceladus .	我們所拍攝的最美麗的照片 , 事實上 , 用一些月球來展現土星 。 這裡是石頭的土星 , 這裡是土星 , 展示節奏的邊緣 , 展示你 , 用垂直的泥土 , 用月底來呈現月球 。
now , two of the 47 moons that saturn has are standouts .	現在 , 土星的四十七月有兩個月球是站起來的 。
and those are titan and enceladus . titan is saturn's largest moon , and , until cassini had arrived there , was the largest single expanse of unexplored terrain that we had remaining in our solar system .	而這些是泰坦和土衛二 。 泰坦是土星最大的月球 , 直到卡斯坦到達達那裡 , 是太陽系中最大的爆炸 。
and it is a body that has long intrigued people who've watched the planets .	這是個很長的身體 , 有著很感興趣的人 , 看了行星 。
it has a very large , thick atmosphere , and in fact , its surface environment was believed to be more like the environment we have here on the earth , or at least had in the past , than any other body in the solar system .	它有一個非常大、厚的大氣層 , 事實上 , 它的表面環境被認為是我們在地球上所存在的環境 , 或至少在過去 , 在太陽系中任何其他身體 。
its atmosphere is largely molecular nitrogen , like you are breathing here in this room , except that its atmosphere is suffused with simple organic materials like methane and propane and ethane .	它的大氣大部分都是分子氮 , 就像你在這個房間裡呼吸的 , 除了它的大氣中被簡單的有機物質困擾 , 像是甲烷和乙醇 。
and these molecules high up in the atmosphere of titan get broken down , and their products join together to make haze particles .	而這些分子在泰坦的大氣中升起 , 他們的產品結合在一起 , 組成零粒子 。
this haze is ubiquitous . it's completely global and enveloping titan .	這種零零是無可避免的 , 完全是全球和鼓舞的泰坦 。
and that's why you cannot see down to the surface with our eyes in the visible region of the spectrum .	這就是為什麼你無法看見我們眼睛在可見的地面上看到我們的眼睛 。
but these haze particles , it was surmised , before we got there with cassini , over billions and billions of years , gently drifted down to the surface and coated the surface in a thick organic sludge .	但這些零粒子 , 在我們接觸到卡斯坦之前 , 已經有數十億年了 , 溫柔地向地面向地面 , 並在一個厚厚的有機電池中 。
so like the equivalent , the titan equivalent , of tar , or oil , or what we didn't know what .	如同泰坦一樣 , 泰坦 , 或石油 , 或石油 , 或是我們不知道什麼 。
but this is what we suspected . and these molecules , especially methane and ethane , can be liquids at the surface temperatures of titan .	但這就是我們懷疑的 。 這些分子 , 特別是甲烷和乙醇 , 可以在泰坦的表面溫度下液態 。
and so it turns out that methane is to titan what water is to the earth .	結果發現 , 甲烷是將水傳到地球上 。
it's a condensable in the atmosphere , and so recognizing this circumstance brought to the fore a whole world of bizarre possibilities . you can have methane clouds , ok , and above those clouds , you have this hundreds of kilometers of haze , which prevent any sunlight from getting to the surface .	在大氣中 , 它是可容忍的 , 因此 , 意識到這個環境會帶到整個奇怪的可能性世界 。 你可以有甲烷雲 , 在雲層上 , 上面有數百公里的夏季 , 預防任何陽光 。
the temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero fahrenheit .	表面的溫度是3050度下方的0度 。
but despite that cold , you could have rain falling down on the surface of titan .	但儘管如此冷 , 你可以在泰坦的表面下降下雨 。
and doing on titan what rain does on the earth: it carves gullies ; it forms rivers and cataracts ; it can create canyons ; it can pool in large basins and craters .	在地球上 , 雨林的做法:它會帶著樹枝 ; 它形成河流和洞穴 ; 它可以創造出峽谷 ; 它可以在大型的底下池和螃蟹中橄欖 。
it can wash the sludge off high mountain peaks and hills , down into the lowlands . so stop and think for a minute .	它可以洗掉高山峰和山丘 , 到低地 , 停下來 , 再思考一下 。
try to imagine what the surface of titan might look like .	試著想像泰坦的表面是什麼樣子 。
it's dark . high noon on titan is as dark as deep earth twilight on the earth .	它是黑暗的 。 泰坦的高鼻子 , 像地球深處的深處一樣黑暗 。
it's cold , it's eerie , it's misty , it might be raining , and you might be standing on the shores of lake michigan brimming with paint thinner .	它很冷 , 很酷 , 很糟糕 , 可能是雨水 , 你可能站在冰川的海岸上 , 米克萊根的傷害是痛苦的 。
that is the view that we had of the surface of titan before we got there with cassini , and i can tell you that what we have found on titan , though it is not the same in detail , is every bit as fascinating as that story is .	這是我們在加入卡斯坦的表面前所看到的景象 , 我可以告訴你們 , 我們在泰坦發現了什麼 , 雖然它在細節裡 , 都不像那個故事一樣迷人 。
and for us , it has been like the cassini people it has been like a jules verne adventure come true .	對我們來說 , 像卡斯坦人一樣 , 像一個叢林的冒險是真的 。
as i said , it has a thick , extensive atmosphere .	如我所說的 , 它有著厚厚的大氣 。
this is a picture of titan , backlit by the sun , with the rings as a beautiful backdrop .	這張照片是titan , 由太陽的背景 , 和ring是美麗的背景 。
and yet another moon there i don't even know which one it is . it's a very extensive atmosphere .	然而 , 另一個月球 , 我甚至不知道它是哪個 。 這是個非常大氣的大氣 。
we have instruments on cassini which can see down to the surface through this atmosphere , and my camera system is one of them .	我們在卡斯坦有樂器可以透過這個大氣層看到的表面 , 我的相機系統是其中之一 。
and we have taken pictures like this .	我們拍了像這樣的照片 。
and what you see is bright and dark regions , and that's about as far as it got for us .	你看到的是亮和黑色區域 , 這大約是對我們來說的 。
it was so mystifying: we couldn't make out what we were seeing on titan .	這太神秘了:我們無法弄清楚我們在泰坦看到什麼 。
when you look closer at this region , you start to see things like sinuous channels we didn't know . you see a few round things .	當你仔細看這個區域時 , 你會開始看到一些我們不知道的東西 。 你看到一些圓形的東西 。
this , we later found out , is , in fact , a crater , but there are very few craters on the surface of titan , meaning it's a very young surface .	後來我們發現 , 事實上 , 一個隕石 , 但在泰坦的表面上有非常少的隕石 , 意思是 , 這是個很年輕的表面 。
and there are features that look tectonic .	有些特徵看起來是昆蟲 。
they look like they've been pulled apart .	他們看起來就像是分離的 。
whenever you see anything linear on a planet , it means there's been a fracture , like a fault .	每當你在星球上看到任何線條 , 它就意味著有碎片 , 像是一個錯 。
and so it's been tectonically altered .	所以它已經改變了 。
but we couldn't make sense of our images , until , six months after we got into orbit , an event occurred that many have regarded as the highlight of cassini's investigation of titan .	但 , 我們無法理解我們的影像 , 直到我們進入軌道六個月後 , 一個事件發生了許多人被視為卡斯坦的高速調查 。
and that was the deployment of the huygens probe , the europeanbuilt huygens probe that cassini had carried for seven years across the solar system . we deployed it to the atmosphere of titan , it took two and a half hours to descend , and it landed on the surface .	這是熱氣探測器的部署 , 歐洲的熱氣探測器 , 卡斯尼西尼在太陽系超過七年 。 我們將它帶到泰坦的大氣層 , 花了兩半的時間來描述表面 。
and i just want to emphasize how significant an event this is .	我只是想強調這個事件的重要性 。
this is a device of human making , and it landed in the outer solar system for the first time in human history .	這是人類製造的裝置 , 它在外在太陽系上登陸在人類歷史上第一次 。
it is so significant that , in my mind , this was an event that should have been celebrated with ticker tape parades in every city across the u . s . and europe , and sadly , that wasn't the case .	在我腦海中 , 這種事件應該被標記在美國和歐洲各地的各個城市中 , 都是如此的重要性 , 不幸的是 , 這不是案例 。
it was significant for another reason . this is an international mission , and this event was celebrated in europe , in germany , and the celebratory presentations were given in english accents , and american accents , and german accents , and french and italian and dutch accents .	對另一個原因來說 , 這是個國際任務 , 這個事件在歐洲 , 在德國 , 慶祝慶祝慶祝 , 英國的英文 , 德國的英語和德國的英語 , 以及法國和義大利亞 。
it was a moving demonstration of what the words " united nations " are supposed to mean: a true union of nations joined together in a colossal effort for good .	它是一個移動的示範 , 說明 「 聯合國 」 的意思是:一個真正的國家結合在一起 , 為好的成就 。
and , in this case , it was a massive undertaking to explore a planet , and to come to understand a planetary system that , for all of human history , had been unreachable , and now humans had actually touched it .	在這個例子中 , 它是一個很大的難以探索一個星球 , 來了解地球的系統 , 對所有人類歷史而言 , 已經無法想像 , 現在人類真的碰到它了 。
so it was i mean , i'm getting goose bumps just talking about it .	所以 , 我是說 , 我的意思是 , 我剛剛剛談到它 。
it was a tremendously emotional event , and it's something that i will personally never forget , and you shouldn't either .	這是個很大的情感事件 , 我會個人忘記 , 而你也不應該 。
but anyway , the probe took measurements of the atmosphere on the way down , and it also took panoramic pictures .	但 , 總之 , 探測器的測量是下降的 , 它也採用了大氣的圖片 。
and i can't tell you what it was like to see the first pictures of titan's surface from the probe . and this is what we saw .	我無法告訴各位 , 關於toran的表面的第一張照片 。 這是我們所看到的 。
and it was a shocker , because it was everything we wanted those other pictures taken from orbit to be .	那是個震驚人的 , 因為我們希望那些照片從軌道上拍攝的照片 。
it was an unambiguous pattern , a geological pattern .	那是個不可思議的模式 , 一個地質的模式 。
it's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids .	這是一種延長的乾燥模式 , 只由液體流動形成 。
and you can follow these channels and you can see how they all converge .	你可以遵循這些頻道 , 你可以看到它們如何轉變 。
and they converge into this channel here , which drains into this region .	他們將這個頻道轉換成這個區塊 。
you are looking at a shoreline .	你正在看著海岸線 。
was this a shoreline of fluids ? we didn't know .	這是流體的海岸線 ? 我們不知道 。
but this is somewhat of a shoreline .	但這是一些海岸線 。
this picture is taken at 16 kilometers .	這張照片是16公里的 。
this is the picture taken at eight kilometers , ok ? again , the shoreline .	這張照片是8公里拍攝的 , 好嗎 ? 再一次 , 海岸線 。
okay , now , 16 kilometers , eight kilometers this is roughly an airline altitude .	好 , 現在 , 16公里 , 8公里 , 8公里 , 大約是飛行器 。
if you were going to take an airplane trip across the u . s . , you would be flying at these altitudes .	如果你要在美國拿一架飛機旅行 , 你會在這些高度飛行 。
so , this is the picture you would have at the window of titanian airlines as you fly across the surface of titan .	所以 , 這是你在泰坦航空的窗戶 , 當你在泰坦的表面上飛行時 , 你會看到這張照片 。
and then finally , the probe came to rest on the surface , and i'm going to show you , ladies and gentlemen , the first picture ever taken from the surface of a moon in the outer solar system .	最後 , 探測器回到表面 , 我要給你們看 , 先生女士 , 先生先生 , 第一張從外太陽系中拍攝的照片 。
and here is the horizon , ok ?	這裡是地平線 , 好嗎 ?
these are probably water ice pebbles , yes ?	這些可能是水泡 , 是的嗎 ?
and obviously , it landed in one of these flat , dark regions and it didn't sink out of sight . so it wasn't fluid that we landed in .	很明顯地 , 它在其中一個平面黑色區域 , 沒有洞察覺 。 所以這不是我們登陸的液體 。
what the probe came down in was basically the titan equivalent of a mud flat .	探測器的基本上是一片泥土平面的土地 。
this is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane .	這是一種不穩定的地面 , 被液態甲烷困住 。
and it's probably the case that this material has washed off the highlands of titan through these channels that we saw , and has drained over billions of years to fill in lowlying basins .	這可能是這個物質在我們看到的這些頻道中被洗掉 , 花了數十億年才能填補低利的鹼基 。
and that is what the huygens probe landed in .	這就是熱體探測器的樣子 。
but still , there was no sign in our images , or even in the huygens' images , of any large , open bodies of fluids .	但是 , 我們的圖片中沒有任何標誌 , 甚至在熱帶的影像中 , 任何大型、開放的液體 。
where were they ? it got even more puzzling when we found dunes .	他們在哪裡 ? 當我們找到沙丘時 , 就會變得更困惑 。
ok , so this is our movie of the equatorial region of titan , showing these dunes . these are dunes that are 100 meters tall , separated by a few kilometers , and they go on for miles and miles and miles .	好的 , 這是我們在泰坦的平等區域的電影 , 展示這些塵埃 。 這些是100公尺高的塵埃 , 由幾公里 , 分開 , 它們會延伸到哩程和哩程 。
there's hundreds , up to a 1 , 000 or 1 , 200 miles of dunes .	有數百個 , 到一千或1200英里的沙丘 。
this is the saharan desert of titan .	這是泰坦的沙漠 。
it's obviously a place which is very dry , or you wouldn't get dunes .	顯然是一個非常乾燥的地方 , 或你不會得到塵埃 。
so again , it got puzzling that there were no bodies of fluid , until finally , we saw lakes in the polar regions .	再一次 , 難以置信 , 沒有流體 , 直到終於 , 我們看到北極地區湖泊 。
and there is a lake scene in the south polar region of titan .	在南極的南極地區 , 有一個湖面的景象 。
it's about the size of lake ontario .	大概是拉克斯大小的湖泊 。
and then , only a week and a half ago , we flew over the north pole of titan and found , again , we found a feature here the size of the caspian sea .	接著 , 只有一週半前 , 我們飛過了泰坦北極 , 再次發現 , 我們在加勒比海的大小發現一個特徵 。
so it seems that the liquids , for some reason we don't understand , or during at least this season , are apparently at the poles of titan .	所以這似乎是液體 , 我們不了解的原因 , 或至少在這個季節中 , 都顯然是泰坦的極端 。
and i think you would agree that we have found titan is a remarkable , mystical place . it's exotic , it's alien , but yet strangely earthlike , and having earthlike geological formations and a tremendous geographical diversity , and is a fascinating world whose only rival in the solar system for complexity and richness is the earth itself .	我想你會同意 , 我們發現titan是一個很棒的、神秘的地方 。 它是外星人 , 但很奇怪 , 但有著像地球的地理形式 , 和一個巨大的地理多樣性 , 只是在太陽系的複雜性和富有價值的世界 。
and so now we go onto enceladus . enceladus is a small moon , it's about a tenth the size of titan . and you can see it here next to england , just to show you the size . this is not meant to be a threat .	現在我們去了土衛二 , 土衛二是一顆小月球 , 大約是一百大小 。 你可以在英格蘭的旁邊看到它的大小 。 這不是威脅 。
and enceladus is very white , it's very bright , and its surface is obviously wrecked with fractures .	土衛二是非常白的 , 它的表面很明顯是碎片的 。
it is a very geologically active body .	它是一個非常地質的身體 。
but the mother lode of discoveries on enceladus was found at the south pole and we're looking at the south pole here where we found this system of fractures .	但 , 土衛二的母親被發現在南極 , 我們看到南極的南極 , 我們發現了這個脆弱的系統 。
and they're a different color because they're a different composition .	它們是不同的顏色 , 因為它們是不同的組合 。
they are coated . these fractures are coated with organic materials .	這些碎片是由有機材料組成 。
moreover , this whole , entire region , the south polar region , has elevated temperatures . it's the hottest place on the planet , on the body .	此外 , 整個地區 , 南極地區 , 已經進化了溫度 。 它是地球上最熱的地方 。
that's as bizarre as finding that the antarctic on the earth is hotter than the tropics .	這就像是發現地球上的南極 , 比熱帶還要熱 。
and then , when we took additional pictures , we discovered that from these fractures are issuing jets of fine , icy particles extending hundreds of miles into space .	接著 , 當我們用額外的圖片 , 我們發現 , 從這些碎片的噴泉是有用的 , 網絡粒子會延伸到太空中 。
and when we colorcode this image , to bring out the faint light levels , we see that these jets feed a plume that , in fact , we see , in other images , goes thousands of miles into the space above enceladus .	當我們把這張圖片拿出來 , 拿出來 , 我們看到這些噴射的光線傳送給質量 , 事實上 , 在其他的影像中 , 數千英里 。
my team and i have examined images like this , and like this one , and have thought about the other results from cassini .	我和我的團隊在研究像這樣的圖像 , 就像這張一樣 , 想著其他的結果來自卡斯坦 。
and we have arrived at the conclusion that these jets may be erupting from pockets of liquid water under the surface of enceladus .	我們在結論的結論中 , 這些噴泉可能是從水面下的液態水中排放出來的 。
so we have , possibly , liquid water , organic materials and excess heat .	所以 , 我們有了 , 液態水 , 有機材料 , 和其他的熱能 。
in other words , we have possibly stumbled upon the holy grail of modern day planetary exploration , or in other words , an environment that is potentially suitable for living organisms .	換句話說 , 我們可能在現代的行星探索上出現了 , 或換句話說 , 一個可能適合活生生生物的環境 。
and i don't think i need to tell you that the discovery of life elsewhere in our solar system , whether it be on enceladus or elsewhere , would have enormous cultural and scientific implications .	我不認為我需要告訴各位 , 在我們的太陽系中其他地方的生命發現 , 不論是在土衛二或其他地方 , 都會有巨大的文化和科學意涵 。
because if we could demonstrate that genesis had occurred not once , but twice , independently , in our solar system , then that means , by inference , it has occurred a staggering number of times throughout the universe and its 13 . 7 billion year history .	因為如果我們能證明基因發生的不曾再一次 , 但在我們的太陽系中 , 在我們的太陽系中 , 那就表示 , 宇宙中有著驚人的數量 , 宇宙中有137億年的歷史 。
right now , earth is the only planet still that we know is teeming with life .	現在 , 地球是唯一的行星 , 仍然存在於生命中 。
it is precious , it is unique , it is still , so far , the only home we've ever known .	它是珍貴的 , 它是獨一無二的 , 到目前為止 , 我們所知唯一的家 。
and if any of you were alert and coherent during the 1960s and we'd forgive you , if you weren't , ok you would remember this very famous picture taken by the apollo 8 astronauts in 1968 .	如果在1960年代 , 任何人都在阿爾伯特和同意你 , 如果你沒有 , 你就記得在1968年的阿波羅8號太空人拍的這張很著名的照片 。
it was the first time that earth was imaged from space , and it had an enormous impact on our sense of place in the universe , and our sense of responsibility for the protection of our own planet .	當時地球是從太空影像的第一次 , 它對我們宇宙的感知有著巨大的影響 , 而我們對地球保護的責任感 。
well , we on cassini have taken an equivalent first , a picture that no human eye has ever seen before .	嗯 , 我們在卡西尼先拍了一幅相同的照片 , 沒有人類眼前看到的照片 。
it is a total eclipse of the sun , seen from the other side of saturn .	它是太陽的總結 , 從土星的另一邊看到的 。
and in this impossibly beautiful picture , you see the main rings backlit by the sun , you see the refracted image of the sun and you see this ring created , in fact , by the exhalations of enceladus .	在這個不可思議的照片中 , 你會看到太陽的主要節奏 , 你會看到太陽的反射影像 , 而你看到這個節奏的形象 , 事實上 , 是由土衛二的爆發 。
but as if that weren't brilliant enough , we can spot , in this beautiful image , sight of our own planet , cradled in the arms of saturn's rings .	但如果這還不夠聰明 , 我們就可以在這個美麗的圖像中 , 看我們自己的星球 , 被撞到土星的手臂 。
now , there is something deeply moving about seeing ourselves from afar , and capturing the sight of our little , blueocean planet in the skies of other worlds .	現在 , 有一些很深的移動 , 要從afar看待自己 , 捕捉我們的小小的藍色星球 , 在其他世界的天空中 。
and that , and the perspective of ourselves that we gain from that , may be , in the end , the finest reward that we earn from this journey of discovery that started half a century ago .	這樣 , 我們的觀點是 , 可能在最後 , 最後 , 我們從這個發現的旅程中得到最好的獎勵 。
as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped . this slows the delivery of aid after a disaster and hides the economic potential of unused lands and unknown roads . in this short talk , google's lalitesh katragadda demos map maker , a group mapmaking tool that people around the globe are using to map their world .	到了2005年 , 世界上只有15%的人在災難後 , 愛滋病的消失後 , 隱藏了未知的土地和未知的道路 。 在這個短短的演講中 , 谷歌的麥加拉德•德薩德•德拉德的地圖製作者 , 一個團體在全球地圖上繪製他們的世界 。
collaboration , design , map , technology	合作、設計、地圖、科技、科技、科技、科技 , 合作 。
lalitesh katragadda: making maps to fight disaster , build economies	晚上 , 卡拉格達:製作地圖 , 來對抗災難 , 建立經濟體 , 建立經濟體制 。
in 2008 , cyclone nargis devastated myanmar .	在2008年 , cycclonenaginagi摧毀了新奇的迷思 。
millions of people were in severe need of help .	數百萬人受到嚴重的幫助 。
the u . n . wanted to rush people and supplies to the area .	聯合國想要打破人民和供應區域 。
but there were no maps , no maps of roads , no maps showing hospitals , no way for help to reach the cyclone victims .	但沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖 , 沒有地圖顯示醫院 , 沒有幫助到網路的受害者 。
when we look at a map of los angeles or london , it is hard to believe that as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geocodable level of detail .	當我們看看洛杉磯或倫敦的地圖 , 很難相信2005年 , 世界上只有15%的地理細節 。
the u . n . ran headfirst into a problem that the majority of the world's populous faces: not having detailed maps .	聯合國的頭部被標記為一個問題 , 世界上大部分的大面孔:沒有細節地圖 。
but help was coming .	但幫忙來了 。
at google , 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120 , 000 kilometers of roads , 3 , 000 hospitals , logistics and relief points .	在google , 40名志工用一個新的軟體來繪製一萬二十萬公里的路徑 , 三千個醫院、邏輯和仰賴點 。
and it took them four days .	花了四天 。
the new software they used ? google mapmaker .	他們使用的新軟體 ? 谷歌地圖學家 。
google mapmaker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally .	谷歌地圖標記者是一種科技 , 使我們每個人能夠地圖地圖地圖地圖 。
people have used this software to map everything from roads to rivers , from schools to local businesses , and video stores to the corner store .	人們用這個軟體來繪製所有東西 , 從公路到河流 , 從學校到當地企業 , 影片儲存到角落的商店 。
nobel prize nominee hernando de soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land .	諾貝爾•帕爾•帕爾•德羅德明白了 , 對於大部分開發中國家的經濟利潤的關鍵 , 是要擊敗大量未預算的土地 。
for example , a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapitalized in india alone .	舉例來說 , 一兆美金的真正產業在印度 , 只有一百萬美金 。
in the last year alone , thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information , and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable .	光是去年 , 一百七十個國家有數百萬個使用者 , 創造了一幅細節的地圖 , 從來沒有想過 。
and this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere .	每處都有熱情使用者的力量 。
let's look at some of the maps being created by users right now .	現在我們來看看一些使用者所創造的地圖 。
so , as we speak , people are mapping the world in these 170 countries .	所以 , 當我們說話時 , 人們在這個170個國家繪製世界 。
you can see bridget in africa who just mapped a road in senegal .	你可以看到非洲的橋樑 , 只是在塞內加爾廣告道路 。
and , closer to home , chalua , an n . g . road in bangalore .	更靠近家 , 查羅拉 , 一個n.g.g , 在孟加羅的路上 。
this is the result of computational geometry , gesture recognition , and machine learning .	這是計算幾何的結果 , 特徵辨識 , 機器學習 。
this is a victory of thousands of users , in hundreds of cities , one user , one edit at a time .	這是數以千計的使用者 , 在數百個城市中 , 一個使用者 , 一個電子編輯 。
this is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet .	這是我們所未有的地球70%的邀請 。
welcome to the new world .	歡迎來到新世界 。
in 2003 , the palestinian village of budrus mounted a 10monthlong nonviolent protest to stop a barrier being built across their olive groves . did you hear about it ? didn't think so . brazilian filmmaker julia bacha asks why we only pay attention to violence in the israelpalestine conflict and not to the nonviolent leaders who may one day bring peace .	在2003年 , 巴勒斯坦村落在十個月的非暴力抗議中 , 阻止一個障礙 , 阻止他們在他們的橄欖球場 。 你聽到了嗎 ? 不認為 , 巴西的電影朱利亞•朱利亞•朱利亞 , 問我們為什麼我們只專注在以色列的衝突中暴力 , 而不是要讓非暴力的領袖帶給和平 。
arts , communication , compassion , entertainment , film , peace , violence , war	藝術、溝通、同情、娛樂、娛樂、和平、暴力、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭 。
julia bacha: pay attention to nonviolence	茱莉亞•巴基亞:專注注意非暴力的非暴力 。
for the last 8 years , i have dedicated my life to documenting the work of israelis and palestinians who are trying to end the conflict using peaceful means .	過去8年來 , 我已經把我的生活記錄下來 , 記錄以色列和巴勒斯和巴勒斯坦的作品 , 他們試圖用和平的意義來結束衝突 。
when i travel with my work across europe and the united states , one question always comes up: where is the palestinian gandhi ?	當我在歐洲和美國旅行時 , 有一個問題總是出現:巴勒斯坦的甘地在哪裡 ?
why aren't palestinians using nonviolent resistance ?	為什麼巴勒斯坦不用非暴力抗爭 ?
the challenge i face when i hear this question is that often i have just returned from the middle east where i spent my time filming dozens of palestinians who are using nonviolence to defend their lands and water resources from israeli soldiers and settlers .	當我聽到這個問題時 , 我所面臨的挑戰是 , 通常我剛從中東回來 , 我花了數十個巴勒斯坦人 , 用非暴力的方式來保護他們的土地和水資源 。
these leaders are trying to forge a massive national nonviolent movement to end the occupation and build peace in the region .	這些領導人試圖忘記一個龐大的國家非暴力運動 , 終結職業 , 並在地區建立和平 。
yet , most of you have probably never heard about them .	但 , 大部分的人可能從來沒有聽過他們 。
this divide between what's happening on the ground and perceptions abroad is one of the key reasons why we don't have yet a palestinian peaceful resistance movement that has been successful .	在這地面和感知之間的分歧 , 是為什麼我們還沒有巴勒斯坦和平抗爭運動的關鍵原因之一 。
so i'm here today to talk about the power of attention , the power of your attention , and the emergence and development of nonviolent movements in the west bank , gaza and elsewhere but today , my case study is going to be palestine .	所以今天我來談的是注意力、注意力的力量 , 以及在西岸的非暴力運動和發展 , 加薩和今天 , 我的案例研究將會是巴勒斯坦 。
i believe that what's mostly missing for nonviolence to grow is not for palestinians to start adopting nonviolence , but for us to start paying attention to those who already are .	我相信 , 大部分的非暴力 , 並不是為了巴勒斯坦人開始非暴力 , 而是為了我們開始關注那些已有的人 。
allow me to illustrate this point by taking you to this village called budrus .	讓我來說明一下這個小村子 , 叫做budrus 。
about seven years ago , they faced extinction , because israel announced it would build a separation barrier , and part of this barrier would be built on top of the village .	大約七年前 , 他們面臨絕種 , 因為以色列宣佈它會建立一個分離障礙 , 其中一部分的障礙會被建造在村莊上 。
they would lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded , so they would lose free access to the rest of the west bank .	他們會失去40%的土地 , 被圍繞 , 所以他們會失去免費取得西岸的其他地方 。
through inspired local leadership , they launched a peaceful resistance campaign to stop that from happening .	透過啟發當地的領導 , 他們推出了一個和平的抗爭活動 , 來阻止這種情況 。
let me show you some brief clips , so you have a sense for what that actually looked like on the ground .	讓我給你們看一些簡短的短片段 , 所以你有感知到它在地面上是什麼樣子 。
palestinian woman: we were told the wall would separate palestine from israel .	巴勒斯坦婦女:我們被告知 , 從以色列中分離巴勒斯坦 。
here in budrus , we realized the wall would steal our land .	在布德魯斯 , 我們了解牆壁會偷走我們的土地 。
israeli man: the fence has , in fact , created a solution to terror .	以色列人:這句話的確 , 事實上 , 創造了一個解決方案來恐怖 。
man: today you're invited to a peaceful march .	男子:今天你被邀請到一個和平的遊行 。
you are joined by dozens of your israeli brothers and sisters .	你有數十個以色列的兄弟和姊妹 。
israeli activist: nothing scares the army more than nonviolent opposition .	以色列的行動主義者:沒有比非暴力反對更害怕的軍隊 。
woman: we saw the men trying to push the soldiers , but none of them could do that .	女子:我們看到男人試圖推出士兵 , 但沒有人可以這樣做 。
but i think the girls could do it .	但我認為這些女孩可以做到 。
fatah party member: we must empty our minds of traditional thinking .	法塔派派員:我們必須在傳統的思維中擁抱我們的思維 。
hamas party member: we were in complete harmony , and we wanted to spread it to all of palestine .	哈馬里•派派對:我們是完全的哈馬里 , 我們想要把它散播給所有巴勒斯坦 。
chanting: one united nation .	查理:一個聯合國 。
fatah , hamas and the popular front !	fatah , 哈馬和流行的前面 !
news anchor: the clashes over the fence continue .	新聞報導:這句話持續下去 。
reporter: israeli border police were sent to disperse the crowd .	記者:以色列的邊界警察被送去分佈群眾 。
they were allowed to use any force necessary .	他們被允許使用任何必要的力量 。
man: these are live bullets .	男子:這些是活躍的 。
it's like fallujah . shooting everywhere .	這就像是泰國 。 每處槍擊 。
israeli activist: i was sure we were all going to die .	以色列的積極主義者:我相信我們都會死 。
but there were others around me who weren't even cowering .	但在我身邊也有其他的 , 甚至還沒有編寫 。
israeli soldier: a nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear] .	以色列士兵:非暴力抗議不會停止 。
protester: this is a peaceful march .	主持人:這是一個和平的遊行 。
there is no need to use violence .	不需要用暴力 。
chanting: we can do it ! we can do it !	查理:我們可以做到 ! 我們能做到 !
julia bacha: when i first heard about the story of budrus , i was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago , in 2003 .	朱利亞•巴拉:當我第一次聽到佛羅的故事 , 我驚訝的是 , 國際媒體已經無法覆蓋了七年前發生的非凡事件 , 在2003年 。
what was even more surprising was the fact that budrus was successful .	更令人驚訝的是 , 布德魯斯成功的事實 。
the residents , after 10 months of peaceful resistance , convinced the israeli government to move the route of the barrier off their lands and to the green line , which is the internationally recognized boundary between israel and the palestinian territories .	居民 , 經過了10個月的和平抗爭 , 說服了以色列政府 , 讓障礙離開土地和綠線 , 以色列和巴勒斯坦的領土 。
the resistance in budrus has since spread to villages across the west bank and to palestinian neighborhoods in jerusalem .	佛羅病毒的抗爭性從西岸傳播到村莊 , 到西方銀行和巴勒斯坦社區 。
yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories .	然而 , 媒體大部分都留在這些故事上 。
this silence carries profound consequences for the likelihood that nonviolence can grow , or even survive , in palestine .	這種沉默會帶來深刻的後果 , 對於非暴力的可能性 , 或甚至是在巴勒斯坦的生存 。
violent resistance and nonviolent resistance share one very important thing in common ; they are both a form of theater seeking an audience to their cause .	暴力抗拒和非暴力抗拒 , 分享一個非常重要的事 ; 共同點 , 他們都是劇院尋求觀眾的形式 。
if violent actors are the only ones constantly getting frontpage covers and attracting international attention to the palestinian issue , it becomes very hard for nonviolent leaders to make the case to their communities that civil disobedience is a viable option in addressing their plight .	如果暴力的演員是唯一一個人常被前面的封面 , 吸引國際關注巴勒斯坦議題 , 對於非暴力領袖來說 , 很難讓公民歧視的社區變成一種可以在地址上的選擇 。
the power of attention is probably going to come as no surprise to the parents in the room .	注意力的力量可能是 , 沒有意料到在房間的父母 。
the surest way to make your child throw increasingly louder tantrums is by giving him attention the first time he throws a fit .	為了讓孩子們越來越大的抗爭方式 , 就是給他注意他第一次丟下一台手指 。
the tantrum will become what childhood psychologists call a functional behavior , since the child has learned that he can get parental attention out of it .	螞蟻會變成童年心理學家所謂的功能行為 , 因為孩子已經學到 , 他能從中得到父母的注意力 。
parents can incentivize or disincentivize behavior simply by giving or withdrawing attention to their children .	父母能激勵或不私人的行為 , 只因為給予予他們的孩子的注意力 。
but that's true for adults too .	但 , 對成年人也是如此 。
in fact , the behavior of entire communities and countries can be influenced , depending on where the international community chooses to focus its attention .	事實上 , 整個社區和國家的行為可能受到影響 , 依據國際社群選擇專注注意力 。
i believe that at the core of ending the conflict in the middle east and bringing peace is for us to transform nonviolence into a functional behavior by giving a lot more attention to the nonviolent leaders on the ground today .	我相信 , 在中東的衝突的核心 , 把和平帶給和平的核心 , 要讓我們改變非暴力行為 , 藉由給予現今非暴力領袖的注意力 。
in the course of taking my film to villages in the west bank , in gaza and in east jerusalem , i have seen the impact that even one documentary film can have in influencing the transformation .	在西岸、加薩和東耶路撒州的村莊裡 , 我看到了一部紀錄片的影響 , 即使一部紀錄片已經影響了轉變 。
in a village called wallajeh , which sits very close to jerusalem , the community was facing a very similar plight to budrus .	在一個叫做壁畫的村子裡 , 位於耶路撒冷 , 社區面臨了一個非常類似的突破 。
they were going to be surrounded , lose a lot of their lands and not have freedom of access , either to the west bank or jerusalem .	他們會被圍繞 , 失去許多土地 , 沒有自由取得 , 不論是西岸銀行或耶路撒冷 。
they had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention .	他們花了大約兩年的時間都使用非暴力 , 但從沒有人注意到被關注 。
so we organized a screening .	所以我們組織了螢幕 。
a week later , they held the most wellattended and disciplined demonstration to date .	一週後 , 他們把最適當的和學會展示給日期 。
the organizers say that the villagers , upon seeing the story of budrus documented in a film , felt that there were indeed people following what they were doing , that people cared .	組織者說 , 村民們 , 看到布德魯斯在電影中的故事 , 感受到 , 人們的確遵循他們所做的事 , 人們關心 。
so they kept on going .	所以他們繼續下去 。
on the israeli side , there is a new peace movement called solidariot , which means solidarity in hebrew .	在以色列的一面 , 有一個新的和平運動叫做義大利亞特 , 這意味著在希伯來的固定性 。
the leaders of this movement have been using budrus as one of their primary recruiting tools .	這項運動的領導者 , 被當作是他們主要的招募工具之一 。
they report that israelis who had never been active before , upon seeing the film , understand the power of nonviolence and start joining their activities .	他們報告 , 以色列之前從來沒有活躍 , 看到電影 , 了解非暴力的力量 , 並開始加入他們的活動 。
the examples of wallajeh and the solidariot movement show that even a smallbudget independent film can play a role in transforming nonviolence into a functional behavior .	華納和固態運動的例子顯示 , 即使是小型的獨立電影可以在改變非暴力行為的行為中扮演扮演角色 。
now imagine the power that big media players could have if they started covering the weekly nonviolent demonstrations happening in villages like bil'in , ni'lin , wallajeh , in jerusalem neighborhoods like sheikh jarrah and silwan the nonviolent leaders would become more visible , valued and effective in their work .	想像一下 , 大媒體玩家可能有能力 , 如果他們開始覆蓋週末非暴力的示範 , 例如bilin , nin , 華納 , 在耶路撒冷的鄰居 , 像sikharh , 沉默的非暴力領袖會變得更糟糕、更有價值、有效 。
i believe that the most important thing is to understand that if we don't pay attention to these efforts , they are invisible , and it's as if they never happened .	我相信最重要的事是要了解如果我們不注意這些努力 , 它們是隱形的 , 就好像他們從未發生過的那樣 。
but i have seen first hand that if we do , they will multiply .	但 , 我第一次看到 , 如果我們這麼做 , 他們就會隨機拍攝 。
if they multiply , their influence will grow in the overall israelipalestinian conflict .	如果他們多了 , 他們的影響力會在超過以色列人的衝突中成長 。
and theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation .	他們的影響力是 , 終於能解開這個情況 。
these leaders have proven that nonviolence works in places like budrus .	這些領導者證明了 , 非暴力在像布德魯這樣的地點 。
let's give them attention so they can prove it works everywhere .	讓我們給他們注意 , 讓他們可以證明它在各處運作 。
simon sinek has a simple but powerful model for inspirational leadership all starting with a golden circle and the question " why ? " his examples include apple , martin luther king , and the wright brothers . . .	西蒙斯基有一個很簡單但有啟發性的領導模式 , 都從一個黃金圈開始 , 問題是: 「 為什麼 ? 」 他的例子包括蘋果、馬丁•路德 , 以及威脅兄弟 。
bullseye , business , entrepreneur , leadership , sales , selling , success	布洛伊、商業、企業家、領導人、銷售、銷售、成功、成功、成功 。
simon sinek: how great leaders inspire action	西蒙斯汀克:領導人有多偉大的啟發行動 。
how do you explain when things don't go as we assume ?	你要如何解釋當我們假設時 , 事情不會發生 ?
or better , how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions ?	或是更好的 , 你要如何解釋 , 其他人如何能夠達成所有假設的樣子 ?
for example: why is apple so innovative ?	例如:為什麼蘋果如此創新 ?
year after year , after year , after year , they're more innovative than all their competition .	一年後 , 一年後 , 畢竟 , 他們比他們所有的競爭都更創新 。
and yet , they're just a computer company .	然而 , 他們只是電腦公司 。
they're just like everyone else .	他們就像其他人一樣 。
they have the same access to the same talent , the same agencies , the same consultants , the same media .	他們有相同的能力 , 相同的職業 , 同一個顧問 , 同樣的媒體 。
then why is it that they seem to have something different ?	為何他們看起來有點不同 ?
why is it that martin luther king led the civil rights movement ?	為什麼馬丁•路德引領民權運動 ?
he wasn't the only man who suffered in a precivil rights america , and he certainly wasn't the only great orator of the day .	他不是唯一在美國受苦的男人 , 他肯定不是那天唯一的偉大主持人 。
and why is it that the wright brothers were able to figure out controlled , powered man flight when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified , better funded . . .	為何 , 威脅兄弟們能夠想出控制 , 權力飛行 , 當其他團隊有更好的資金 , 更好的資金 。
and they didn't achieve powered man flight , and the wright brothers beat them to it .	他們沒有達成男人飛行 , 摔角兄弟會打擊他們 。
there's something else at play here .	這裡還有其他東西 。
about three and a half years ago i made a discovery .	大約三年半前 , 我做了一項發現 。
and this discovery profoundly changed my view on how i thought the world worked , and it even profoundly changed the way in which i operate in it .	這個發現深深地改變了我對這個世界如何運作的看法 , 它甚至深深地改變了我在運作的方式 。
as it turns out , there's a pattern .	結果發現 , 有一個模式 。
as it turns out , all the great and inspiring leaders and organizations in the world whether it's apple or martin luther king or the wright brothers they all think , act and communicate the exact same way .	結果發現 , 世界上所有偉大且鼓舞領袖和組織 , 無論是蘋果或馬丁王或威脅的兄弟 , 他們都認為 , 行動和溝通的方式 。
and it's the complete opposite to everyone else .	這對其他人來說完全相反 。
all i did was codify it , and it's probably the world's simplest idea .	我所做的就是複製它 , 可能是世界上最簡單的點子 。
i call it the golden circle .	我稱之為黃金圈 。
why ? how ? what ?	為什麼 ? 什麼 ? 什麼 ?
this little idea explains why some organizations and some leaders are able to inspire where others aren't .	這個點子解釋了為什麼有些組織和一些領導者能夠啟發別人不在哪裡 。
let me define the terms really quickly .	讓我很快地定義一下這個詞 。
every single person , every single organization on the planet knows what they do , 100 percent .	每個人 , 地球上的每一個組織都知道他們在做什麼 , 百分之百 。
some know how they do it , whether you call it your differentiated value proposition or your proprietary process or your usp .	有些人知道他們怎麼做 , 不管你稱它為你不同的價值建議或你的正義過程或你的使用 。
but very , very few people or organizations know why they do what they do .	但很少人或組織都知道他們為何做 。
and by " why " i don't mean " to make a profit . "	「 為何 」 我不代表 「 賺錢 」 。
that's a result . it's always a result .	結果是 , 結果總是結果 。
by " why , " i mean: what's your purpose ?	根據 「 為什麼 」 , 我的意思是:你的目的是什麼 ?
what's your cause ? what's your belief ?	你的原因是什麼 ? 你的信念是什麼 ?
why does your organization exist ?	為什麼你的組織存在 ?
why do you get out of bed in the morning ?	為什麼早上你會出床 ?
and why should anyone care ?	為什麼有人會在乎 ?
well , as a result , the way we think , the way we act , the way we communicate is from the outside in .	結果 , 我們認為 , 我們採取行動的方式 , 我們溝通的方式是來自外面的 。
it's obvious . we go from the clearest thing to the fuzziest thing .	很明顯 , 我們從最清楚的事物到難以置信 。
but the inspired leaders and the inspired organizations regardless of their size , regardless of their industry all think , act and communicate from the inside out .	但靈感的領袖和靈感組織 , 不論他們的大小 , 不論他們的產業都認為 , 行動和溝通 。
let me give you an example .	讓我舉個例子 。
i use apple because they're easy to understand and everybody gets it .	我用蘋果 , 因為他們很容易理解 , 每個人都得到 。
if apple were like everyone else , a marketing message from them might sound like this: " we make great computers .	如果蘋果和其他人一樣 , 用市場訊息可能聽起來就像這樣: 「 我們製造了很棒的電腦 。
they're beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	他們很漂亮地設計 , 簡單地使用和使用者 。
want to buy one ? " " meh . "	想要買一個嗎 ? 」
and that's how most of us communicate .	這就是我們大多數人溝通的方式 。
that's how most marketing is done , that's how most sales is done and that's how most of us communicate interpersonally .	大部分的行銷是這樣做 , 最多銷售的 , 那就是我們大多數人的溝通方式 。
we say what we do , we say how we're different or how we're better and we expect some sort of a behavior , a purchase , a vote , something like that .	我們說我們怎麼做 , 我們說我們是不同的 , 或我們如何做得更好 , 我們期待某種行為 , 一個投票 , 像這樣 。
here's our new law firm: we have the best lawyers with the biggest clients , we always perform for our clients who do business with us .	這是我們的新法律公司:我們有最好的律師和最大的客戶 , 我們總是為我們的客戶做事 。
here's our new car: it gets great gas mileage , it has leather seats , buy our car .	這是我們的新車:它有很大的氣體 , 它有雷射海域 , 買我們的車 。
here's how apple actually communicates .	這是蘋果的溝通方式 。
" everything we do , we believe in challenging the status quo .	「 我們做的一切 , 我們相信要挑戰現況 。
we believe in thinking differently .	我們相信不同的思維 。
the way we challenge the status quo is by making our products beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	我們挑戰現狀的方式是讓產品美麗的設計 , 簡單地使用和使用者 。
we just happen to make great computers .	我們剛好才剛好製作了很棒的電腦 。
want to buy one ? "	想要買一個嗎 ? 」
totally different right ? you're ready to buy a computer from me .	完全不同 ? 你準備好要從我身上買一台電腦 。
all i did was reverse the order of the information .	我所做的就是反轉資訊的秩序 。
what it proves to us is that people don't buy what you do ; people buy why you do it .	對我們來說 , 人們不買你做的事 ; 人們買你為何做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做的事 ; 他們買你為何做 。
this explains why every single person in this room is perfectly comfortable buying a computer from apple .	這解釋了為什麼在座的每一個人都很舒適 , 從蘋果買一台電腦 。
but we're also perfectly comfortable buying an mp3 player from apple , or a phone from apple , or a dvr from apple .	但我們也非常舒服地買蘋果的mp3球員 , 或蘋果的手機 , 或蘋果的dvr 。
but , as i said before , apple's just a computer company .	但 , 如我之前所說的 , 蘋果只是電腦公司 。
there's nothing that distinguishes them structurally from any of their competitors .	沒有任何東西會從任何競爭者的競爭者中分散 。
their competitors are all equally qualified to make all of these products .	他們的競爭者都同樣有資格來製造這些產品 。
in fact , they tried .	事實上 , 他們嘗試了 。
a few years ago , gateway came out with flat screen tvs .	幾年前 , 蓋倫•艾爾在電視上出發 。
they're eminently qualified to make flat screen tvs .	他們很有資格來製造平面螢幕電視 。
they've been making flat screen monitors for years .	多年來 , 他們一直在製造平面螢幕 。
dell came out with mp3 players and pdas , and they make great quality products , and they can make perfectly welldesigned products and nobody bought one .	德萊爾和pda , 他們製作了很棒的品質產品 , 他們可以做出完美的產品 , 沒有人買了一顆 。
in fact , talking about it now , we can't even imagine buying an mp3 player from dell .	事實上 , 談到現在 , 我們甚至無法想像 , 買一個mp3的玩家 。
why would you buy an mp3 player from a computer company ?	為何你要從電腦公司買一個mp3的玩家 ?
but we do it every day .	但我們每天都這麼做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做的事 ; 他們買你為何做 。
the goal is not to do business with everybody who needs what you have .	目標不是要和需要你所擁有的所有人做生意 。
the goal is to do business with people who believe what you believe .	目標是和相信你所相信的人商業 。
here's the best part: none of what i'm telling you is my opinion .	這是最好的部分:我告訴你們的是我的意見 。
it's all grounded in the tenets of biology .	生物學的十二氧化合物都被覆蓋在生物學上 。
not psychology , biology .	不是心理學 , 生物學 。
if you look at a crosssection of the human brain , looking from the top down , what you see is the human brain is actually broken into three major components that correlate perfectly with the golden circle .	如果你仔細看人類大腦的交叉 , 從上角來看 , 你可以看到人類的大腦實際上被分成三種主要的元素 , 完全和黃金圓圈 。
our newest brain , our homo sapien brain , our neocortex , corresponds with the " what " level .	我們最新的大腦 , 我們的同性腦 , 我們的大腦 , 我們的新皮質 , 和 「 什麼 」 相對 。
the neocortex is responsible for all of our rational and analytical thought and language .	新皮質對我們的理性和分析思考和語言是負責的 。
the middle two sections make up our limbic brains , and our limbic brains are responsible for all of our feelings , like trust and loyalty .	中間的兩個部分組成了我們的肢體大腦 , 我們的肢體大腦是對我們所有感受的負責 , 比如信任和忠誠 。
it's also responsible for all human behavior , all decisionmaking , and it has no capacity for language .	這對所有人的行為也是負責的 , 所有決策 , 也沒有語言的能力 。
in other words , when we communicate from the outside in , yes , people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features and benefits and facts and figures .	換句話說 , 當我們從外面溝通時 , 是的 , 人們可以了解大量複雜的資訊 , 像是特徵、利潤、事實和數字 。
it just doesn't drive behavior .	只是沒有驅動行為 。
when we can communicate from the inside out , we're talking directly to the part of the brain that controls behavior , and then we allow people to rationalize it with the tangible things we say and do .	當我們能從內部溝通時 , 我們就直接到大腦控制行為的一部分 , 然後我們允許人們用我們所說的 「 做 」 和 「 做 」 的 「 正確 」 來對待它 。
this is where gut decisions come from .	這就是腸道決策從這裡來的 。
you know , sometimes you can give somebody all the facts and figures , and they say , " i know what all the facts and details say , but it just doesn't feel right . "	你知道嗎 , 有時候你可以給別人所有事實和人物 , 他們說: 「 我知道所有事實和細節說什麼 , 但這不對 。 」
why would we use that verb , it doesn't " feel " right ?	為什麼我們會用這個版本 , 不是 「 感覺 」 ?
because the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking doesn't control language .	因為控制決策的部分 , 無法控制語言 。
and the best we can muster up is , " i don't know . it just doesn't feel right . "	我們最好的目標是: 「 我不知道 , 感覺不對 。 」
or sometimes you say you're leading with your heart , or you're leading with your soul .	或有時候你會說你會帶著你的心臟 , 或是你帶著你的靈魂領袖 。
well , i hate to break it to you , those aren't other body parts controlling your behavior .	嗯 , 我討厭要打破它 , 那些不是其他的身體部位控制你的行為 。
it's all happening here in your limbic brain , the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking and not language .	這一切都發生在你肢體的大腦中 , 控制決策的部分 , 而不是語言 。
but if you don't know why you do what you do , and people respond to why you do what you do , then how will you ever get people to vote for you , or buy something from you , or , more importantly , be loyal and want to be a part of what it is that you do .	但如果你不知道為何你做你做的事 , 人們回應你為何要做的事 , 那麼你要如何讓人們投票給你 , 或更重要的是 , 成為你所做的事 。
again , the goal is not just to sell to people who need what you have ; the goal is to sell to people who believe what you believe .	同樣的 , 目標不只是要賣給你需要什麼的人 ; 目標是要賣給你相信你相信的人民 。
the goal is not just to hire people who need a job ; it's to hire people who believe what you believe .	目標不僅是僱用需要工作的人 ; 而是僱用你相信的人民 。
i always say that , you know , if you hire people just because they can do a job , they'll work for your money , but if you hire people who believe what you believe , they'll work for you with blood and sweat and tears .	我總是說 , 如果你僱用人們 , 因為他們可以做一份工作 , 他們會為你的錢工作 , 但如果你雇用你相信的人 , 他們會為你所相信的 , 他們會為你工作 。
and nowhere else is there a better example of this than with the wright brothers .	另外一個例子是 , 這裡有一個比較好的例子 , 比有威脅兄弟更好 。
most people don't know about samuel pierpont langley .	大多數人不知道samuelperpriley 。
and back in the early 20th century , the pursuit of powered man flight was like the dot com of the day .	回到20世紀早期 , 權力飛行者的追求就像一天的點子一樣 。
everybody was trying it .	每個人都在嘗試 。
and samuel pierpont langley had , what we assume , to be the recipe for success .	samuelperponley , 我們假設 , 成為成功的回應 。
i mean , even now , you ask people , " why did your product or why did your company fail ? "	我是說 , 即便現在 , 你問: 「 為什麼你的產品或你的公司會失敗 ? 」
and people always give you the same permutation of the same three things: undercapitalized , the wrong people , bad market conditions .	人們總是給你相同的觀點 , 同樣的三件事:下降、錯誤的人、壞市場條件 。
it's always the same three things , so let's explore that .	一直都是同樣的三件事情 , 讓我們來探究它 。
samuel pierpont langley was given 50 , 000 dollars by the war department to figure out this flying machine .	samuelperponponley給了五萬美金 , 來找出這台飛行機 。
money was no problem .	金錢不是問題 。
he held a seat at harvard and worked at the smithsonian and was extremely wellconnected ; he knew all the big minds of the day .	他在哈佛大學工作 , 在密西西西斯頓工作 , 非常接觸 ; 他知道每天的所有大思維 。
he hired the best minds money could find and the market conditions were fantastic .	他雇用了最好的腦袋 , 可以找到和市場條件很棒 。
the new york times followed him around everywhere , and everyone was rooting for langley .	紐約時報跟著他周圍 , 每個人都在追蹤拉伯利 。
then how come we've never heard of samuel pierpont langley ?	那麼 , 我們怎麼來沒有聽過samuelpierponponley ?
a few hundred miles away in dayton ohio , orville and wilbur wright , they had none of what we consider to be the recipe for success .	幾百英哩遠離俄亥俄州 , 奧維爾 , 威爾威爾•威爾 , 他們沒有我們所認為的成功 。
they had no money ; they paid for their dream with the proceeds from their bicycle shop ; not a single person on the wright brothers' team had a college education , not even orville or wilbur ; and the new york times followed them around nowhere .	他們沒有錢 , 他們在他們的自行車店上付出他們的夢想 ; 沒有一個人在威脅兄弟的團隊有大學教育 , 甚至是ville或wilbur ; 紐約時報跟著他們在無所不在 。
the difference was , orville and wilbur were driven by a cause , by a purpose , by a belief .	差別是 , 奧ville和wilbur被引導 , 由一個目的 , 由一個信念 。
they believed that if they could figure out this flying machine , it'll change the course of the world .	他們相信如果他們能找出這台飛行機 , 它會改變世界的過程 。
samuel pierpont langley was different .	samuelperponngley是不同的 。
he wanted to be rich , and he wanted to be famous .	他想成為富有的 , 他想要有名 。
he was in pursuit of the result .	他在追求結果 。
he was in pursuit of the riches .	他在追求豐富的追求中 。
and lo and behold , look what happened .	再看 , 看看發生了什麼事 。
the people who believed in the wright brothers' dream worked with them with blood and sweat and tears .	那些相信威脅兄弟夢想的人 , 和他們一起合作 , 用血液、汗和淚水 。
the others just worked for the paycheck .	其他人只是為了付錢 。
and they tell stories of how every time the wright brothers went out , they would have to take five sets of parts , because that's how many times they would crash before they came in for supper .	他們說故事 , 每次威脅兄弟出去 , 他們就得要花五組零件 , 因為在他們來到哪裡 , 他們就有多少次會撞擊 。
and , eventually , on december 17th , 1903 , the wright brothers took flight , and no one was there to even experience it .	最後 , 在1903年12月17日 , 1903年 , 威脅兄弟飛行 , 沒有人會在那裡經歷它 。
we found out about it a few days later .	幾天後我們發現它 。
and further proof that langley was motivated by the wrong thing: the day the wright brothers took flight , he quit .	更進一步來說 , 拉利的證明是錯誤的:那天 , 威脅兄弟走了飛行 , 他辭掉了 。
he could have said , " that's an amazing discovery , guys , and i will improve upon your technology , " but he didn't .	他可以說: 「 那是個很棒的發現 , 傢伙 , 我會改善你的科技 。 」 但他沒有 。
he wasn't first , he didn't get rich , he didn't get famous so he quit .	他不首先 , 他沒有富有 , 他不這麼有名 , 所以他辭掉了 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做的事 ; 他們買你為何做 。
and if you talk about what you believe , you will attract those who believe what you believe .	如果你談到你所相信的 , 你會吸引那些相信你所相信的人 。
but why is it important to attract those who believe what you believe ?	但為什麼要吸引你相信的那些人很重要 ?
something called the law of diffusion of innovation , and if you don't know the law , you definitely know the terminology .	一種叫做創新的法則 , 如果你不知道法律 , 你肯定知道這個詞 。
the first two and a half percent of our population are our innovators .	我們的第一個2%和1%的人口是我們的創新者 。
the next 13 and a half percent of our population are our early adopters .	下一個百分之十三十五的人口是早期的選手 。
the next 34 percent are your early majority , your late majority and your laggards .	接下來的34%是你的早期 , 你的大多數人 , 你的主要和你的湖泊 。
the only reason these people buy touch tone phones is because you can't buy rotary phones anymore .	這些人買到連接電話的唯一理由是 , 因為你再也不能再買羅字手機 。
we all sit at various places at various times on this scale , but what the law of diffusion of innovation tells us is that if you want massmarket success or massmarket acceptance of an idea , you cannot have it until you achieve this tipping point between 15 and 18 percent market penetration , and then the system tips .	我們都坐在不同的地方 , 在這個規模上 , 但創新的失敗法則告訴我們 , 如果你想要大規模的成功或大規模的預算 , 直到你達到了15%和18%的市場拘留點 , 然後系統的限制 。
and i love asking businesses , " what's your conversion on new business ? "	我很喜歡問企業: 「 你在新生意上有什麼轉換 ? 」
and they love to tell you , " oh , it's about 10 percent , " proudly .	他們很喜歡告訴你們: 「 喔 , 這大概是10% 。 」 很驕傲 。
well , you can trip over 10 percent of the customers .	嗯 , 你可以試試超過10%的客戶 。
we all have about 10 percent who just " get it . "	我們都有百分之十的 「 得到 」 。
that's how we describe them , right ?	這就是我們如何描述他們 , 對吧 ?
that's like that gut feeling , " oh , they just get it . "	那就好像那顆腸子: 「 喔 , 他們就得到了 。 」
the problem is: how do you find the ones that get it before you're doing business with them versus the ones who don't get it ?	問題是:你要如何找到你在做生意之前的結果 ?
so it's this here , this little gap that you have to close , as jeffrey moore calls it , " crossing the chasm " because , you see , the early majority will not try something until someone else has tried it first .	這裡是這一小塊你必須靠近的 , 如同傑夫•摩爾稱它為 「 跨越椅子 」 , 因為 , 早期的絕對不會嘗試某件事 , 直到其他人先試過它 。
and these guys , the innovators and the early adopters , they're comfortable making those gut decisions .	而這些人 , 創新者和早期的選舉者 , 他們很舒適地做出這些決策 。
they're more comfortable making those intuitive decisions that are driven by what they believe about the world and not just what product is available .	他們比較舒適 , 讓那些有直覺的決策 , 由他們對世界的相信而驅動的決定 , 不僅僅是產品能取得的 。
these are the people who stood in line for six hours to buy an iphone when they first came out , when you could have just walked into the store the next week and bought one off the shelf .	這些人站在線上六小時買iphone的時候 , 當他們第一次出門時 , 當你可以走進房間時 , 買了一支貨幣 。
these are the people who spent 40 , 000 dollars on flat screen tvs when they first came out , even though the technology was substandard .	這些人花了四萬美元在平面螢幕上花了四萬美元的電視 , 儘管科技是郊區的 。
and , by the way , they didn't do it because the technology was so great ; they did it for themselves .	順便說一提 , 他們並沒有這麼做 , 因為科技很棒 ; 他們為自己做這件事 。
it's because they wanted to be first .	因為他們想要是第一個 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it and what you do simply proves what you believe .	人們不買你做的事 ; 他們買你為何做 , 你做的就是證明你相信的 。
in fact , people will do the things that prove what they believe .	事實上 , 人們會做他們所相信的事 。
the reason that person bought the iphone in the first six hours , stood in line for six hours , was because of what they believed about the world , and how they wanted everybody to see them: they were first .	一個人在前六個小時買iphone的原因是他們所相信的世界 , 以及他們想要看到的是什麼:他們是第一次 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做的事 ; 他們買你為何做 。
so let me give you a famous example , a famous failure and a famous success of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我給你們一個有名的例子 , 一個有名的失敗和有名的成功成功 , 讓創新的失敗 。
first , the famous failure .	首先 , 著名的失敗 。
it's a commercial example .	這是個商業例子 。
as we said before , a second ago , the recipe for success is money and the right people and the right market conditions , right ? you should have success then .	正如我們之前所說的 , 成功的回饋是金錢和右派人和權利市場條件 , 對吧 ? 你應該成功 。
from the time tivo came out about eight or nine years ago to this current day , they are the single highestquality product on the market , hands down , there is no dispute .	從直到八、九年前 , 到目前為止 , 他們是市場上最高品質的產品 , 手上沒有分散 。
they were extremely wellfunded .	他們非常受歡迎 。
market conditions were fantastic .	市場條件很棒 。
i mean , we use tivo as verb .	我的意思是 , 我們用tivo作為動詞 。
i tivo stuff on my piece of junk time warner dvr all the time .	我每次都在我垃圾的時候投投入了dvr 。
but tivo's a commercial failure .	但tivo是一種商業失敗 。
they've never made money .	他們從來沒有賺錢 。
and when they went ipo , their stock was at about 30 or 40 dollars and then plummeted , and it's never traded above 10 .	當他們到ipo時 , 他們的股票大約有30或40美金 , 然後放大了 , 卻從來沒有交易到10 。
in fact , i don't think it's even traded above six , except for a couple of little spikes .	事實上 , 我不認為 , 甚至在六歲以上交易 , 除了幾隻小小的骨頭 。
because you see , when tivo launched their product they told us all what they had .	因為 , 當tivo發射了他們的產品 , 他們告訴我們他們所擁有的所有產品 。
they said , " we have a product that pauses live tv , skips commercials , rewinds live tv and memorizes your viewing habits without you even asking . "	他們說: 「 我們有一產品 , 暫停了電視、技能商業、重新設計電視、記憶你的觀點 , 不用你問 。 」
and the cynical majority said , " we don't believe you .	歷史上大多數人說: 「 我們不相信你 。
we don't need it . we don't like it .	我們不需要它 , 我們不喜歡它 。
you're scaring us . "	你害怕我們 。 」
what if they had said , " if you're the kind of person who likes to have total control over every aspect of your life , boy , do we have a product for you .	如果他們說: 「 若你是那種喜歡控制你人生的每一個面向 , 男孩 , 我們就有產品給你 。
it pauses live tv , skips commercials , memorizes your viewing habits , etc . , etc . "	它會暫停住電視、技能商業化、記憶你的觀點習慣等等 。 」
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it , and what you do simply serves as the proof of what you believe .	人們不買你做的事 ; 他們買你為何做 , 而你所做的就是為你所相信的證明 。
now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation .	現在 , 讓我給你們一個成功的例子 , 說明創新的失敗法則 。
in the summer of 1963 , 250 , 000 people showed up on the mall in washington to hear dr . king speak .	在1963年夏天 , 25萬人出現在華盛頓的大廳 , 聽見國王演講 。
they sent out no invitations , and there was no website to check the date .	他們沒有邀請 , 沒有邀請 , 沒有網站來檢查約會 。
how do you do that ?	你該怎麼做呢 ?
well , dr . king wasn't the only man in america who was a great orator .	嗯 , 金恩博士不是美國唯一一個偉大的主管 。
he wasn't the only man in america who suffered in a precivil rights america .	他不是美國唯一在美國受苦的男人 。
in fact , some of his ideas were bad .	事實上 , 他的一些點子很糟 。
but he had a gift .	但他有禮物 。
he didn't go around telling people what needed to change in america .	他沒有去告訴美國需要改變的人們 。
he went around and told people what he believed .	他走過來 , 告訴大家他所相信的 。
" i believe , i believe , i believe , " he told people .	「 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 , 」 他告訴人們 。
and people who believed what he believed took his cause , and they made it their own , and they told people .	那些相信他所相信的原因的人 , 他們會自自主 , 他們告訴人們 。
and some of those people created structures to get the word out to even more people .	有些人創造了結構 , 讓更多人發聲 。
and lo and behold , 250 , 000 people showed up on the right day at the right time to hear him speak .	洛杉磯 , 有25萬人在正確的日子出現 , 聽到他說話 。
how many of them showed up for him ?	其中有多少人為他出席 ?
they showed up for themselves .	他們為自己展現出來 。
it's what they believed about america that got them to travel in a bus for eight hours to stand in the sun in washington in the middle of august .	他們所相信的美國 , 讓他們在公車上旅行八小時 , 才能站在華盛頓州的華盛頓區 。
it's what they believed , and it wasn't about black versus white: 25 percent of the audience was white .	這是他們所相信的 , 不是黑色的白人:百分之25的觀眾是白人 。
dr . king believed that there are two types of laws in this world: those that are made by a higher authority and those that are made by man .	金恩博士相信世界上有兩種法律:那些由較高權威所組成的人 , 那些是由男人所組成的 。
and not until all the laws that are made by man are consistent with the laws that are made by the higher authority will we live in a just world .	直到人類所做出的所有法律 , 都與較高權威的法律相連 , 我們會生活在一個世界中 。
it just so happened that the civil rights movement was the perfect thing to help him bring his cause to life .	剛好發生了 , 民權運動是最完美的幫助他帶來了他的原因 。
we followed , not for him , but for ourselves .	我們遵循 , 不是為了他 , 而是為了自己 。
and , by the way , he gave the " i have a dream " speech , not the " i have a plan " speech .	順便說一提 , 他給了 「 我有一個夢想 」 演講 , 而不是 「 我有一個計畫 」 。
listen to politicians now , with their comprehensive 12point plans .	聽政治人物現在 , 用他們非常複雜的12point計劃 。
they're not inspiring anybody .	他們不鼓舞任何人 。
because there are leaders and there are those who lead .	因為有領袖 , 還有那些領導者 。
leaders hold a position of power or authority , but those who lead inspire us .	領導者有權力或權威的位置 , 但那些引領我們激勵我們的人 。
whether they're individuals or organizations , we follow those who lead , not because we have to , but because we want to .	不論是個人或組織 , 我們遵守那些領導的人 , 不是因為我們必須 , 而是因為我們想要 。
we follow those who lead , not for them , but for ourselves .	我們遵守那些領導的人 , 不是為了他們 , 而是為了自己 。
and it's those who start with " why " that have the ability to inspire those around them or find others who inspire them .	那些從 「 為何 」 開始的人有能力啟發他們周圍的人 , 或找到那些激勵他們的人 。
how do you remember where you parked your car ? how do you know if you're moving in the right direction ? neuroscientist neil burgess studies the neural mechanisms that map the space around us , and how they link to memory and imagination .	你該怎麼記得你在哪裡停車 ? 你怎麼知道你在正確的方向移動 ? 神經科醫師 , 研究周圍的神經機制 , 以及他們如何連結記憶和想像力 。
brain , cognitive science , exploration , neuroscience , science	大腦、認知科學、探索、神經科學、科學、科學、科學、科學、知識、認知科學、認知科學 。
neil burgess: how your brain tells you where you are	neil燃燒:你的大腦如何告訴你你在哪裡在哪裡 ?
when we park in a big parking lot , how do we remember where we parked our car ?	當我們在一個大停車場時 , 我們要如何記得我們在哪裡停車 ?
here's the problem facing homer .	這裡是問題在家裡 。
and we're going to try to understand what's happening in his brain .	我們要試著了解他的大腦發生了什麼事 。
so we'll start with the hippocampus , shown in yellow , which is the organ of memory .	首先 , 我們會先從黃色顯示 , 這是記憶的器官 。
if you have damage there , like in alzheimer's , you can't remember things including where you parked your car .	如果你有損害 , 比如阿茲海默症 , 你就無法記住東西 , 包括你停車在哪裡 。
it's named after latin for " seahorse , " which it resembles .	以拉丁文為 「 海底 」 的名字 , 它是組合的 。
and like the rest of the brain , it's made of neurons .	就像其他的大腦 , 它是由神經元組成的 。
so the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it .	人類的大腦有大約一百億個神經元 。
and the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other .	神經元與彼此溝通 , 透過發送小小的脈搏 , 或訊號接觸到彼此 。
the hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells , which are very densely interconnected .	海馬體形成了兩個細胞 , 非常密集的連結 。
and scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food .	科學家們開始了解空間記憶如何運作 , 藉由從老鼠或老鼠身上記錄 , 或探索環境尋找食物 。
so we're going to imagine we're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here .	所以 , 我們要想像一下 , 我們在這個老鼠的海馬體中錄下一個神經元 。
and when it fires a little spike of electricity , there's going to be a red dot and a click .	當它發出一個小小的電力時 , 就會有一個紅點和點 。
so what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment .	所以 , 我們看到的是 , 這個神經元知道每當老鼠在環境中被送到一個特定的地方 。
and it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike .	它會訊號傳給大腦的其他部分 , 透過發送一個小的電力刺激 。
so we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal's location .	所以 , 我們可以展示神經元的比例 , 作為動物的地點的功能 。
and if we record from lots of different neurons , we'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment , like in this square box shown here .	如果我們從許多不同的神經元中記錄下來 , 我們會發現 , 當動物在其環境中的不同部分時 , 牠們會發出不同的神經元 , 例如在這個平方的盒子裡 。
so together they form a map for the rest of the brain , telling the brain continually , " where am i now within my environment ? "	所以 , 他們共同組成了大腦的地圖 , 不斷地告訴大腦: 「 我現在在我的環境中在哪裡 ? 」
place cells are also being recorded in humans .	地方細胞也被記錄在人類身上 。
so epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring .	所以癲癇患者有時需要腦部監控電活動 。
and some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town .	有些病人玩了一個電玩遊戲 , 他們在小鎮附近開車 。
and place cells in their hippocampi would fire , become active , start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town .	放置在海馬桶裡的細胞會被火 , 變成活躍的 , 每當他們穿過一個特定的地點時 , 就會發送電脈衝 。
so how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment ?	那麼 , 一個地方細胞怎麼知道 , 老鼠或人在其環境中在哪裡 ?
well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important .	這兩個細胞告訴我們 , 環境的界線是很重要的 。
so the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat's in .	所以 , 最頂端的一個 , 像火火的牆壁之間 , 會在他們拉斯的牆壁之間 。
and when you expand the box , the firing location expands .	當你擴大這個盒子時 , 外面的位置會擴張 。
the one below likes to fire whenever there's a wall close by to the south .	下面的一個位置 , 只要有一面牆 , 就會接近南方 。
and if you put another wall inside the box , then the cell fires in both place wherever there's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box .	如果你把另一面牆放在盒子內部 , 細胞會在兩個地方火 , 不管在南方有牆 , 都是動物在盒子內探索的 。
so this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you extended buildings and so on is particularly important for the hippocampus .	所以 , 這個預測 , 使你周遭的界限和方向的距離和方向 , 尤其是海馬體的重要性 。
and indeed , on the inputs to the hippocampus , cells are found which project into the hippocampus , which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it's exploring around .	的確 , 在海馬體的輸入中 , 細胞被發現到海馬體的哪一個計畫 , 它的反應是用來偵測界線 , 或邊緣 , 從老鼠或老鼠的探索 。
so the cell on the left , you can see , it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east , whether it's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table , which the animals are running around .	所以 , 左邊的細胞 , 你可以看到 , 每隻動物接近一面牆 , 或海岸 , 不管是邊緣或圓形盒的牆壁 , 甚至是桌子的邊緣 。
and the cell on the right there fires whenever there's a boundary to the south , whether it's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart .	右邊的細胞會發火 , 無論是南部的邊緣 , 不管是桌子或牆壁的邊緣 , 甚至是兩座桌子之間的落差 。
so that's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it's exploring around .	因此 , 我們認為 , 細胞會決定動物在哪裡去探索 。
we can also test where we think objects are , like this goal flag , in simple environments or indeed , where your car would be .	我們也可以測試我們認為物體的位置 , 像是這個目標旗 , 在簡單的環境中 , 或你的車子會在哪裡 。
so we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember .	所以我們可以讓人們探索一個環境 , 看看他們必須記住的地點 。
and then , if we put them back in the environment , generally they're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was .	然後 , 如果我們把它們放回環境中 , 通常他們都很擅長把標記放在他們認為旗幟或車子的位置 。
but on some trials , we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell .	但在某些試驗中 , 我們可以改變環境的形狀和大小 , 像我們和地方細胞一樣 。
in that case , we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment .	在那個情況下 , 我們可以看到他們認為旗幟是如何改變你如何改變環境的形狀和大小 。
and what you see , for example , if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment , and then if you ask people where it was , but you've made the environment bigger , where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out .	舉例來說 , 如果旗幟在一個小平方的環境中 , 如果你問人們在哪裡 , 但你把環境變得更大 , 他們認為旗幟是以相同的方式伸出去的 。
it's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location , and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern .	就像你還記得 , 旗幟在哪裡儲存在你所有地方的細胞的模式 , 然後你就可以回溯到這個地點 , 這樣你最好的配合你所在的區域細胞的現狀模式 。
that guides you back to the location that you want to remember .	引導你回到你想記得的地點 。
but we also know where we are through movement .	但我們也知道我們在移動何處 。
so if we take some outbound path perhaps we park and we wander off we know because our own movements , which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back .	所以如果我們採取一些外在路徑 , 或許我們停下來 , 我們就知道 , 因為我們的動作 , 我們能把這條路線整合起來 , 幾乎是頭部的方向 。
and place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell .	放置細胞也得到這種條件 , 從一種叫做網格細胞的輸入 。
now grid cells are found , again , on the inputs to the hippocampus , and they're a bit like place cells .	現在 , 網格細胞再次發現 , 在海馬體的輸入中 , 它們有點像地方細胞 。
but now as the rat explores around , each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid .	但當老鼠探索時 , 每個個體都在一整條不同的地點 , 在環境中 , 都在一個很驚人的三角形 。
and if you record from several grid cells shown here in different colors each one has a gridlike firing pattern across the environment , and each cell's gridlike firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells .	如果你從幾張圖片中記錄下來 , 在不同的顏色中 , 每個顏色都有類似的圖案 , 每個細胞的圖形 , 就會轉換到其他細胞 。
so the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one .	所以 , 紅色的一顆火在這個圖上 , 綠色的那張 , 和這張照片上的藍色 。
so together , it's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you'd find on a map , but using triangles .	所以 , 一起來 , 就好像老鼠可以把虛擬的地點放到它的環境中 , 有點像你在地圖上找到的拉丁和長期的線 , 但用三角形 。
and as it moves around , the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is , so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment .	當它移動時 , 電活動可以從其中一個細胞傳遞到下一個細胞 , 來追蹤它的位置 , 讓它可以用自己的動作 , 知道它在環境中是什麼 。
do people have grid cells ?	人們有網格細胞嗎 ?
well because all of the gridlike firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry , the same orientations of grid , shown in orange here , it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between .	嗯 , 由於所有圖案的圖案都有相同的對稱性 , 相同的圖案 , 以橘色的角度來看 , 意思是 , 大腦的所有網格活動應該改變我們是否在六個方向進行 , 或在六個方向進行進行 。
so we can put people in an mri scanner and have them do a little video game like the one i showed you and look for this signal .	所以我們可以把人放在磁共振儀裡 , 讓他們做一個小小的電玩遊戲 , 像我展示給你們看的 , 尋找這個訊號 。
and indeed , you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex , which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats .	的確 , 你在人體皮質上看到它 , 這是你在老鼠身上看到的磁鐵細胞的同一部分 。
so back to homer .	回到家鄉 。
he's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked .	他可能記住他的車位在距離和方向的位置 , 要延伸建築物和圍繞在他停車的位置 。
and that would be represented by the firing of boundarydetecting cells .	這會被界限的細胞所代表 。
he's also remembering the path he took out of the car park , which would be represented in the firing of grid cells .	他還記得他從車公園中拿出來的路徑 , 它會被代表在網格細胞之中 。
now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire .	兩種細胞都可以讓地方細胞消防 。
and he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car .	他可以回溯到他移動的地點 , 以便發現 , 最好的組合圖案 , 正是他腦中的位置細胞 , 正是他停車車車的位置 。
and that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car's actually there .	引導他回到那個地方 , 不尊重他的視覺特徵 , 像是他的車子是否在那裡 。
maybe it's been towed .	也許它已經被浪費了 。
but he knows where it was , so he knows to go and get it .	但他知道它在哪裡 , 所以他知道要去哪裡 , 拿到它 。
so beyond spatial memory , if we look for this gridlike firing pattern throughout the whole brain , we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks , like remembering the last time you went to a wedding , for example .	所以 , 除了空間記憶 , 如果我們在整個大腦中尋找這張圖案 , 我們在一系列的地點 , 每當我們做各種自動記憶任務時 , 例如 , 記住你上次婚禮 , 例如你在婚禮上去 。
so it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene , at least , of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them .	所以 , 或許是神經機制來代表我們周遭的空間 , 也用來產生視覺圖像 , 這樣我們就能重建空間的場景 , 至少 , 當我們想想像它們時發生的事件 。
so if this was happening , your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint .	所以 , 如果這發生了 , 你的記憶可以從細胞開始 , 讓彼此活化 , 維持這些密度的連結 , 然後反應邊界細胞 , 來創造你的觀點的空間結構 。
and grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space .	網格細胞可以透過這個空間移動這個觀點 。
another kind of cell , head direction cells , which i didn't mention yet , they fire like a compass according to which way you're facing .	另外一種細胞 , 頭部 , 我還沒提到的細胞 , 它們會像同情的同情 , 例如你所面對的方式 。
they could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery , so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding , for example .	他們可以定義你想要為你的視覺影像創造一個影像 , 所以你可以想像當你在婚禮上發生了什麼事 。
so this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains .	這只是一個新時代的一個例子 , 真正是認知神經科學 , 我們開始了解心理過程 , 例如你如何記憶或想像 , 甚至認為數十億個個人神經元的動作 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝大家 。
imagine a global security driven by collaboration among agencies , government , the private sector and the public . that's not just the distant hope of opensource fans , it's the vision of james stavridis , the supreme commander of nato , who shares vivid moments from recent military history to explain why security of the future should be built with bridges rather than walls .	想像一個全球安全驅使在機構中合作 , 政府 , 私人部門和公共場所 。 這不僅是開放資源掃描的遠景 , 也是最高的俄羅斯總署 , 來自近期的軍事歷史 , 來解釋未來的安全性 。
collaboration , global issues , opensource , peace , politics , social media , violence , war	合作、全球議題、開放資源、和平、政治、社交媒體、暴力、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、全球議題、開放、開放、和平、和平、和平、政治、社會媒體、社會媒體、暴力、暴力
james stavridis: how nato's supreme commander thinks about global security	詹姆斯•史里迪:娜托的最高指揮官認為全球安全安全性是怎樣的 。
i'm gonna talk a little bit about opensource security , because we've got to get better at security in this 21st century .	我想要談的是開放資源安全 , 因為我們必須在21世紀得到更好的安全性 。
let me start by saying , let's look back to the 20th century , and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us .	首先 , 咱們回顧二十世紀 , 了解安全方式對我們來說是如何運作的 。
this is verdun , a battlefield in france just north of the nato headquarters in belgium .	這是fdun , 在法國的北方 , 一場戰鬥 , 僅僅是海軍總部的北部 。
at verdun , in 1916 , over a 300day period , 700 , 000 people were killed , so about 2 , 000 a day .	1916年 , 超過300000年的人死亡 , 大約有70萬人死亡 , 大約有2千人一天 。
if you roll it forward 20thcentury security into the second world war , you see the battle of stalingrad , 300 days , 2 million people killed .	假如你將它推進第二次世界大戰中 , 你看到史達丁文的戰鬥 , 三百天 , 殺死了 。
we go into the cold war , and we continue to try and build walls .	我們走進冷戰 , 我們繼續嘗試建造牆壁 。
we go from the trench warfare of the first world war to the maginot line of the second world war , and then we go into the cold war , the iron curtain , the berlin wall .	我們從第一次世界大戰到第二次世界大戰 , 然後我們進入冷戰、鐵牆、柏林牆 。
my thesis for us today is , instead of building walls to create security , we need to build bridges .	今天我的論點是 , 不是建築牆來創造安全 , 我們需要建立橋樑 。
this is a famous bridge in europe .	這是歐洲有名的橋 。
it's the bridge over the drina river , the subject of a novel by ivo andrić , and it talks about how , in that very troubled part of europe and the balkans , over time there's been enormous building of walls .	它是華盛頓河的橋樑 , 由ivoandroandri的小說主題 , 談到歐洲和巴爾克人的一部分 , 經過了很大的牆壁 。
more recently , in the last decade , we begin to see these communities start , hesitatingly , to come together .	最近 , 在過去的十年裡 , 我們開始看到這些社區開始 , 致力於聚集在一起 。
i would argue , again , opensource security is about connecting the international , the interagency , the privatepublic , and lashing it together with strategic communication , largely in social networks .	我再次爭論 , 開放資源安全是關聯國際 , 內部的介面 , 私人的矛盾 , 將它與策略溝通 , 大多在社交網路上 。
so let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that , because our global commons is under attack in a variety of ways , and none of the sources of threat to the global commons will be solved by building walls .	讓我來談談為什麼我們要這麼做 , 因為我們的全球共同點在各種方式下攻擊 , 沒有任何威脅來源 , 都可以用建牆來解決 。
now , i'm a sailor , obviously .	很顯然 , 我是一名sailor ,
this is a ship , a liner , clipping through the indian ocean .	這是一艘船 , 一條線 , 穿過印度洋 。
what's wrong with this picture ?	這張照片中有什麼問題 ?
it's got concertina wire along the sides of it .	它的邊部有了音樂會線 。
that's to prevent pirates from attacking it .	那就是防止海盜攻擊它 。
piracy is a very active threat today around the world . this is in the indian ocean .	piracy今天是世界上非常活躍的威脅 。 這是印度的海洋 。
piracy is also very active in the strait of malacca .	piracy也非常活躍在馬拉克卡的時代 。
it's active in the gulf of guinea .	在幾內亞灣 , 它是活躍的 。
we see it in the caribbean .	我們在加勒比海看到它 。
it's a $10billionayear discontinuity in the global transport system .	它是全球運輸系統中的10億美金的距離 。
last year , at this time , there were 20 vessels , 500 mariners held hostage .	去年 , 在那裡 , 有20個船長 , 500名馬丁人被告住了 。
this is an attack on the global commons .	這是全球共同點的攻擊 。
we need to think about how to address it .	我們需要思考如何解決它 。
let's shift to a different kind of sea , the cyber sea .	讓我們轉換到不同的海洋 , 網路海 。
here are photographs of two young men .	這是兩個年輕人的照片 。
at the moment , they're incarcerated .	那時 , 他們被監禁了 。
they conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars .	他們做了一個信用卡片 , 把它們連上一百億美金 。
this is part of cybercrime which is a $2trillionayear discontinuity in the global economy .	這是網路犯罪的一部分 , 是全球經濟的2兆美金 。
two trillion a year .	每年有2兆美元 。
that's just under the gdp of great britain .	這只是在英國的gdp上 。
so this cyber sea , which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness , is very much under threat as well .	所以 , 這種網路海 , 我們無盡地知道 , 是最根本的開放性 , 也是威脅的 。
another thing i worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking , by the movement of narcotics , opium , here coming out of afghanistan through europe over to the united states .	另一個我擔心全球共同點的威脅是被販賣的威脅 , 由奈米生物、鴉片般的運動 , 來自歐洲的阿富汗 。
we worry about cocaine coming from the andean ridge north .	我們擔心 , 來自安東北的古柯鹼 。
we worry about the movement of illegal weapons and trafficking . above all , perhaps , we worry about human trafficking , and the awful cost of it .	我們擔心非法武器的動作和交易 。 最重要的是 , 或許 , 我們擔心人類販賣 , 和它的成本很糟糕 。
trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons .	販賣大多在海中移動 , 但在全球共同點的其他部分 。
this is a photograph , and i wish i could tell you that this is a very hightech piece of us navy gear that we're using to stop the trafficking .	這是一張照片 , 我希望我能告訴你們 , 這是個非常高科技的傢伙 , 我們使用的是停止販賣 。
the bad news is , this is a semisubmersible run by drug cartels .	壞消息是 , 這是用藥物卡爾來進行的半米麻煩 。
it was built in the jungles of south america .	它是由南美的叢林組成 。
we caught it with that lowtech raft — — and it was carrying six tons of cocaine .	我們用那個低科技的雷射捕捉它 , 牠會帶著六噸的古柯鹼 。
crew of four . sophisticated communications sweep .	四個 , 複雜的溝通 。
this kind of trafficking , in narcotics , in humans , in weapons , god forbid , in weapons of mass destruction , is part of the threat to the global commons .	在人類、武器、上帝禁止 , 在大規模破壞的武器中 , 是全球共同的威脅的一部分 。
and let's pull it together in afghanistan today .	今天我們把它拉到阿富汗 。
this is a field of poppies in afghanistan .	這是阿富汗的最快樂領域 。
eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppy , opium and heroin , comes out of afghanistan .	世界上有8%到90%的貧窮、鴉片和海洛因 , 來自阿富汗 。
we also see there , of course , terrorism .	我們也看到 , 當然 , 恐怖主義 。
this is where al qaeda is staged from .	這是蓋達組織的位置 。
we also see a very strong insurgency embedded there .	我們也看到一個非常強烈的急診所 。
so this terrorism concern is also part of the global commons , and what we must address .	所以 , 這種恐怖主義也是全球共同點的一部分 , 我們必須解決問題 。
so here we are , 21st century .	這裡是21世紀 。
we know our 20thcentury tools are not going to work .	我們知道我們的20世紀工具不會成功 。
what should we do ?	我們該怎麼做 ?
i would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我會爭論 , 我們不會從一個槍枝的障礙來傳遞安全 。
we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我們不會從槍枝的桶子裡傳送安全 。
we will need the application of military force .	我們會需要軍方力量的應用 。
when we do it , we must do it well , and competently .	當我們這麼做時 , 我們一定要做得很好 , 競爭 。
but my thesis is , opensource security is about international , interagency , privatepublic connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the internet .	但我的論點是 , 開放資源安全是關於國際、介入、私人的聯繫 , 由網路上的策略溝通的想法 。
let me give you a couple of examples of how this works in a positive way .	讓我給你們幾個例子 , 說明一下 , 這怎麼做是正面的 。
this is afghanistan . these are afghan soldiers .	這是阿富汗 。 這些是阿富汗士兵 。
they are all holding books .	他們都在包住書 。
you should say , " that's odd . i thought i read that this demographic , young men and women in their 20s and 30s , is largely illiterate in afghanistan . "	你應該說: 「 那很奇怪 , 我想我在20歲和30歲的年輕男性和女性 , 大部分都是阿富汗的幻覺 。 」
you would be correct .	你會是正確的 。
eightyfive percent cannot read when they enter the security forces of afghanistan .	當他們進入阿富汗的安全力量時 , 85%無法閱讀 。
why ? because the taliban withheld education during the period of time in which these men and women would have learned to read .	為什麼 ? 因為塔利班在這些男人和女性學會如何閱讀時期時 , 她們會學會閱讀 。
so the question is , so , why are they all standing there holding books ?	所以 , 問題是 , 為什麼他們都站在那裡 ?
the answer is , we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by nato in partnership with private sector entities , in partnership with development agencies .	答案是 , 我們在教導他們閱讀文學課程 , 透過私人部門和開發機構合作 。
we've taught well over 200 , 000 afghan security forces to read and write at a basic level .	我們已經教了超過二十萬名阿富汗安全部隊去閱讀和寫下基本的程度 。
when you can read and write in afghanistan , you will typically put a pen in your pocket .	當你可以在阿富汗讀書時 , 你通常會把筆放在你的口袋裡 。
at the ceremonies , when these young men and women graduate , they take that pen with great pride , and put it in their pocket .	當這些年輕男性和女性畢業時 , 他們會拿這筆錢 , 放進他們的口袋裡 。
this is bringing together international — there are 50 nations involved in this mission — interagency — these development agencies — and privatepublic , to take on this kind of security .	這將國際聯合在一起 , 有五十個國家參與這個任務 , 這些發展機構 , 私人共和黨 , 來取得這種安全性 。
now , we are also teaching them combat skills , of course , but i would argue , opensource security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect .	當然 , 我們也在教他們戰鬥技巧 , 但是我會爭論 , 開放資源安全的意義 , 意味著建立更久的安全效應 。
this is a us navy warship .	這是美國航海軍 。
it's called the comfort .	它叫做舒適 。
there's a sister ship called the mercy .	有一個姐妹船叫 「 商業 」 。
they are hospital ships .	他們是醫院船 。
this one , the comfort , operates throughout the caribbean and the coast of south america conducting patient treatments .	這首歌 , 舒適 , 透過加勒比海和南美洲的海岸進行治療 。
on a typical cruise , they'll do 400 , 000 patient treatments .	在典型的危機上 , 他們會做四十萬個病人治療 。
it is crewed not strictly by military but by a combination of humanitarian organizations: operation hope , project smile .	它不是因為軍方而被人道主義組織的結合:操作希望、專案微笑 。
other organizations send volunteers .	其他組織會發送志願者 。
interagency physicians come out .	介入醫師出席了 。
they're all part of this .	他們都是這樣的一部分 。
to give you one example of the impact this can have , this little boy , eight years old , walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the comfort .	為各位舉一個例子 , 這個小男孩 , 八歲 , 和他媽媽兩天走上眼睛診所 , 以舒適的方式來實現 。
when he was fitted , over his extremely myopic eyes , he suddenly looked up and said , " mama , veo el mundo . "	當他被騙了 , 他的雙眼時 , 他突然想到 , 說: 「 媽媽 , 維多多•里奧 。 」
" mom , i see the world . "	「 媽 , 我看到世界 。 」
multiply this by 400 , 000 patient treatments , this privatepublic collaboration with security forces , and you begin to see the power of creating security in a very different way .	多次以40萬的病人治療 , 這種私人的共和黨合作 , 你開始看到創造安全的力量 , 以非常不同的方式創造安全 。
here you see baseball players .	在這裡 , 你看到棒球玩家 。
can you pick out the two us army soldiers in this photograph ?	你能否挑出這張照片中的兩個美國軍隊嗎 ?
they are the two young men on either side of these young boys . this is part of a series of baseball clinics , where we have explored collaboration between major league baseball , the department of state , who sets up the diplomatic piece of this , military baseball players , who are real soldiers with real skills but participate in this mission , and they put on clinics throughout latin america and the caribbean , in honduras , in nicaragua , in all of the central american and caribbean nations where baseball is so popular , and it creates security .	他們是這些年輕男孩的兩個年輕人 。 這是一系列的鹼基診所的一部分 , 我們探討了大型的同事balleball的合作 , 國際軍隊的軍隊 , 軍事棒球玩家 , 他們是真正的技巧 , 但參與了這段旅程中 , 他們在拉丁美洲和加州的巴勒比亞州 , 全國各地的巴勒斯加州 , 全國的巴勒比亞 。
it shows role models to young men and women about fitness and about life that i would argue help create security for us .	它給年輕男性和女性的角色 , 展現了社會的角色 , 以及關於我爭議的生命 , 幫助我們為我們創造安全 。
another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief .	這夥伴的另一面是災難的宗教 。
this is a us air force helicopter participating after the tsunami in 2004 which killed 250 , 000 people .	這是美國空軍直升機 , 在2004年海嘯 , 殺死了25萬人 。
in each of these major disasters — the tsunami in 2004 , 250 , 000 dead , the kashmiri earthquake in pakistan , 2005 , 85 , 000 dead , the haitian earthquake , about 300 , 000 dead , more recently the awful earthquaketsunami combination which struck japan and its nuclear industry — in all of these instances , we see partnerships between international actors , interagency , privatepublic working with security forces to respond to this kind of natural disaster .	在這些大災難中 , 2004年的海嘯 , 2004年 , 25萬人死於巴基斯坦 , 2005 , 8萬人死於海地地震 , 大約有30萬人死了 , 近來是最糟糕的地震組合 , 而核產業的產業 , 在這些產業中 , 我們看到了國際性行業 , 和國際性行業之間的關係 。
so these are examples of this idea of opensource security .	這些是開放資源安全的例子 。
we tie it together , increasingly , by doing things like this .	我們不斷地把它綁在一起 , 藉由做類似的事情 。
now , you're looking at this thinking , " ah , admiral , these must be sea lanes of communication , or these might be fiber optic cables . "	現在 , 你在看這個想法: 「 啊 , 阿米蘭 , 這些必須是通訊的海道 , 或這些可能是纖維的電纜 。 」
no . this is a graphic of the world according to twitter .	不 , 這是全球推特的圖表 。
purple are tweets . green are geolocation .	紫外線是推文 。 綠色是地理 。
white is the synthesis .	白色是合成 。
it's a perfect evocation of that great population survey , the six largest nations in the world in descending order: china , india , facebook , the united states , twitter and indonesia .	這是一個完美的演說 , 偉大的人口調查 , 世界上有六大的國家在描述秩序:中國、印度、臉書、推特和印尼 。
why do we want to get in these nets ?	為什麼我們要在這些垃圾裡 ?
why do we want to be involved ?	我們為什麼要參與 ?
we talked earlier about the arab spring , and the power of all this .	我們先前談到阿拉伯的春天 , 和這一切的力量 。
i'll give you another example , and it's how you move this message .	我會給你另一個例子 , 就是你如何移動這個訊息 。
i gave a talk like this in london a while back about this point . i said , as i say to all of you , i'm on facebook . friend me .	我在倫敦發表了一陣子的演講 。 我說 , 正如我對你們所有人說的 , 我在臉書 。
got a little laugh from the audience .	聽眾聽起來有點笑 。
there was an article which was run by ap , on the wire .	有一篇文章 , 由ap跑到電線上 。
got picked up in two places in the world: finland and indonesia .	在世界上有兩個地方 , 芬蘭和印尼 。
the headline was: nato admiral needs friends .	頭條是:娜托需要朋友 。
and the story was a catalyst , and the next morning i had hundreds of facebook friend requests from indonesians and finns , mostly saying , " admiral , we heard you need a friend , and oh , by the way , what is nato ? "	故事是催化劑 , 第二天早上 , 我有數百位臉書朋友 , 來自印尼人和芬蘭 , 大部分的說: 「 阿米蘭人 , 我們聽過你需要朋友 , 喔 , 喔 , 俄羅斯是什麼 ? 」
yeah , we laugh , but this is how we move the message , and moving that message is how we connect international , interagency , privatepublic , and these social nets to help create security .	沒錯 , 我們笑了 , 但這就是我們如何移動這個訊息 , 傳遞訊息是我們如何連結國際 , 介入、私人的國際網路 , 這些社交網 , 協助創造安全 。
now , let me hit a somber note .	現在 , 讓我來打個十一月的音 。
this is a photograph of a brave british soldier .	這是一張很勇敢的英國士兵的照片 。
he's in the scots guards .	他在蘇格蘭警衛中 。
he's standing the watch in helmand , in southern afghanistan .	他站在高爾蘭 , 位在阿富汗南部 。
i put him here to remind us , i would not want anyone to leave the room thinking that we do not need capable , competent militaries who can create real military effect .	我把他放到這裡提醒我們 , 我不希望任何人離開房間思考 , 我們不需要有能力、競爭的軍隊才能創造真正的軍事效應 。
that is the core of who we are and what we do , and we do it to protect freedom , freedom of speech , all the things we treasure in our societies .	這是我們所做的核心和我們所做的 , 來保護自由、自由、言論自由 , 所有我們在社會中珍惜的事物 。
but , you know , life is not an onandoff switch .	但 , 你知道的 , 生命不是一場開關 。
you don't have to have a military that is either in hard combat or is in the barracks .	你不需要有很困難的戰役 , 或在巴克的戰鬥中 。
i would argue life is a rheostat .	我會爭論生命是旋轉的 。
you have to dial it in , and as i think about how we create security in this 21st century , there will be times when we will apply hard power in true war and crisis , but there will be many instances , as we've talked about today , where our militaries can be part of creating 21stcentury security , international , interagency , privatepublic , connected with competent communication .	你必須把它放進去 , 正如我在21世紀 , 我們將如何在真正的戰爭和危機上產生安全感 , 但現在 , 我們的軍隊能夠創造出21世紀的安全、國際關係、私人的溝通 。
i would close by saying that we heard earlier today about wikipedia . i use wikipedia all the time to look up facts , and as all of you appreciate , wikipedia is not created by 12 brilliant people locked in a room writing articles .	最後我會說 , 我們今天早就聽過維基百科 。 我隨時都用維基百科來查看事實 , 維基百科並不是在一個房間中鎖定的文章中 。
wikipedia , every day , is tens of thousands of people inputting information , and every day millions of people withdrawing that information .	維基百科 , 每天 , 有數萬人輸入資訊 , 每一天 , 數百萬人在做這些資訊 。
it's a perfect image for the fundamental point that no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	對於基本的點子來說 , 一個完美的圖像 , 沒有人會像我們一樣聰明 。
no one person , no one alliance , no one nation , no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	沒有人 , 沒有一個人盟友 , 沒有一個國家 , 沒有人跟我們一樣聰明 。
the vision statement of wikipedia is very simple: a world in which every human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge .	維基百科的視覺表達非常簡單:一個世界 , 每個人都能自由分享所有知識的總和 。
my thesis for you is that by combining international , interagency , privatepublic , strategic communication , together , in this 21st century , we can create the sum of all security .	我的論點是 , 結合國際、介入、私人、策略溝通 , 在21世紀 , 我們可以創造所有安全的總和 。
thank you very much . thank you . thank you .	非常謝謝你 。 謝謝 。 謝謝 。
