BLEU = 23.10 55.5/30.4/17.3/10.4 (BP = 0.984 ratio = 0.984 hyp_len = 109472 ref_len = 111282)
when you say she's a programmer , she did do some , but the real thing is to have said the future is going to be much , much more than this .	當你說她是一名程式設計師 , 她做了一些事 , 但真正的一件事就是說未來將會遠遠遠超過這一點 。
now , a hundred years later , this guy comes along , alan turing , and in 1936 , and invents the computer all over again .	一百年後 , 這個傢伙來了 , 艾倫•圖靈在1936年發明了一台電腦 。
now , of course , babbage's machine was entirely mechanical .	當然 , babbage的機器是完全機械化的 。
turing's machine was entirely theoretical .	turing的機器是完全理論的 。
both of these guys were coming from a mathematical perspective , but turing told us something very important .	這些人都來自數學的觀點 , 但 , 圖靈告訴我們一件很重要的事 。
he laid down the mathematical foundations for computer science , and said , " it doesn't matter how you make a computer . "	他為電腦科學奠定了數學基礎 , 說: 「 不管你如何製造電腦 。 」
it doesn't matter if your computer's mechanical , like babbage's was , or electronic , like computers are today , or perhaps in the future , cells , or , again , mechanical again , once we get into nanotechnology .	不管你的電腦機械工程 , 像是babbage , 或電子產品 , 如今的電腦 , 或未來的細胞 , 或者說 , 再一次 , 機械化 , 一旦我們進入奈米技術 。
we could go back to babbage's machine and just make it tiny . all those things are computers .	我們可以回到babbage的機器 , 讓它變小 。 所有這些東西都是電腦 。
there is in a sense a computing essence .	在某種意義上 , 電腦的本質是存在的 。
this is called the church–turing thesis .	這叫做 「 教堂動作論 」 。
and so suddenly , you get this link where you say this thing babbage had built really was a computer .	所以 , 突然間 , 你就有了這個連結 , 你說babbage已經建造了一台電腦 。
in fact , it was capable of doing everything we do today with computers , only really slowly .	事實上 , 它能夠做到今天我們用電腦所做的每一件事 , 只是慢得很慢 。
to give you an idea of how slowly , it had about 1k of memory .	為了讓你們知道它有多慢 , 它有1k的記憶力 。
it used punch cards , which were being fed in , and it ran about 10 , 000 times slower the first zx81 .	它用了打孔卡 , 被放進去 , 它的第一個zx81 , 000倍慢了一萬倍 。
it did have a ram pack .	它的確有一群鐵包 。
you could add on a lot of extra memory if you wanted to .	如果你想的話 , 你可以再加上額外的記憶 。
so , where does that bring us today ?	那麼 , 今天能帶給我們什麼 ?
so there are plans .	所以有一些計畫 。
over in swindon , the science museum archives , there are hundreds of plans and thousands of pages of notes written by charles babbage about this analytical engine .	在瑞典 , 科學博物館的檔案中 , 有數百個計劃和數千頁的筆記本 , 由查爾斯•巴布age所寫 , 關於這個分析引擎 。
one of those is a set of plans that we call plan 28 , and that is also the name of a charity that i started with doron swade , who was the curator of computing at the science museum , and also the person who drove the project to build a difference engine , and our plan is to build it .	其中一組是計劃 , 我們稱之為計劃28 , 這也是我從doronswaade開始的慈善機構 , 他是科學博物館的策展人 , 開著這個計劃去創造一個差異引擎 , 我們的計劃是要建造它 。
here in south kensington , we will build the analytical engine .	在南肯辛頓 , 我們將會建造分析引擎 。
the project has a number of parts to it .	這個專案計畫有幾個部分 。
one was the scanning of babbage's archive .	一個是babbage的檔案掃描 。
that's been done . the second is now the study of all of those plans to determine what to build .	這已經完成了 。 第二個是研究這些計畫的目的 , 來決定要建造什麼 。
the third part is a computer simulation of that machine , and the last part is to physically build it at the science museum .	第三部分是電腦模擬這台機器的模擬 , 最後一部分是在科學博物館的實體建構 。
when it's built , you'll finally be able to understand how a computer works , because rather than having a tiny chip in front of you , you've got to look at this humongous thing and say , " ah , i see the memory operating , i see the cpu operating , i hear it operating . i probably smell it operating . "	當它被建成時 , 你終於能夠了解電腦是如何運作的 , 因為不是在你面前有一小塊小晶片 , 你要看這個巨大的東西 , 然後說: 「 啊 , 我看到記憶運作 , 我看到cpu在運作 , 我聽見它在運作 。 」
but in between that we're going to do a simulation .	但在這兩者之間 , 我們要做一個模擬 。
babbage himself wrote , he said , as soon as the analytical engine exists , it will surely guide the future course of science .	babbage自己寫下 , 他說 , 一旦分析引擎存在 , 它肯定會引導未來科學的軌道 。
of course , he never built it , because he was always fiddling with new plans , but when it did get built , of course , in the 1940s , everything changed .	當然 , 他從來沒有蓋過它 , 因為他一直在充斥新計畫 , 但當它真的被建造出來時 , 當然 , 在1940年代 , 一切都改變了 。
now , i'll just give you a little taste of what it looks like in motion with a video which shows just one part of the cpu mechanism working .	現在 , 我來給你們一些味覺 , 看看這個動作的樣子 , 它只顯示了cpu機制運作的其中一部分 。
so this is just three sets of cogs , and it's going to add . this is the adding mechanism in action , so you imagine this gigantic machine .	這只是三組齒輪 , 加上這就是增加機制的作用所以你想像一下這個巨大的機器
so , give me five years .	所以 , 給我五年 。
before the 2030s happen , we'll have it .	在2030年發生之前 , 我們就有了 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝大家
in this imagefilled talk , yann arthusbertrand displays his three most recent projects on humanity and our habitat stunning aerial photographs in his series " the earth from above , " personal interviews from around the globe featured in his web project " 6 billion others , " and his soontobereleased movie , " home , " which documents human impact on the environment through breathtaking video .	在這張圖片中 , 雅非•藝術家在最近的三項項項目中展現出他在人性和我們的棲息地上驚人的空拍攝 , 在他的系列《地球之上》中 , 來自全球各地的個人訪問 , 他的網路專案 「 六十億人 」 , 他很快就會在電影《家園》中拍下人類對環境的影響 , 透過呼吸影片來拍攝環境的影響 。
art , climate change , environment , film , future , humanity , media , photography	藝術、氣候變遷、環境、電影、未來、人性、媒體、攝影、攝影 。
yann arthusbertrand captures fragile earth in wideangle	雅恩•阿胡斯伯特蘭在廣角的地球上捕捉到脆弱的地球 , 在廣角上捕捉到脆弱的地球 。
i have a big impact on the planet to travel here by plane .	我對地球有很大的衝擊 , 以飛機來到這裡旅行 。
i emitted , in the atmosphere , nine tons of co2 ; that is the weight of two elephants .	我在大氣中排放了9噸的二氧化碳 ; 那是兩隻大象的重量 。
i came here to speak about ecology , and i emitted as much co2 as a frenchman in one year .	我來到這裡 , 來談談生態學 , 一年我就把二氧化碳當作法國人 。
so what do i have to do ?	所以 , 我該怎麼做 ?
i have to kill a frenchman when i come back at home ?	當我回到家時 , 我得要殺一個法國人 ?
i have to do my carbon offset in another way , like i do every time .	我必須以另一種方式做碳排放 , 就像我每次都會做一樣 。
in fact my work is to show our impact on our planet .	事實上 , 我的工作是要展現我們對地球的影響 。
i'm going to show you some examples of the last pictures i've done in the last year .	我要給你們看一些例子 , 是我去年所拍攝的最後一張照片 。
alberta sand oil , a lot of pollution .	亞伯達石油 , 很多污染 。
you know the problem ; we don't want to believe what we know .	你知道問題 , 我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
in alberta people work nonstop , 24 hours by seven to extract as much oil as they can .	在亞伯達 , 人們工作了24小時 , 七個小時 , 盡可能的抽取石油 。
we know about the end of oil .	我們知道石油的終點 。
oil sand is not a longterm solution .	石油砂不是一個長期的解決方案 。
but we use three times more oil than we find every year .	但我們每年所發現的石油多出三倍 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
coral reef in new caledonia .	珊瑚礁位於紐加里尼亞 。
100 percent of the coral may be wiped out before 2050 because of global warming .	百分之百的珊瑚可能在2050年之前就被滅絕 , 因為全球暖化 。
and you know how coral are very sensitive to temperature , and are very important for the biodiversity of the sea .	你知道珊瑚對溫度非常敏感 , 對海洋的生物多樣性非常重要 。
north pole . i've done this picture last summer .	北極 。 我去年夏天拍了這張照片 。
it was impossible to do this picture 15 years ago .	15年前做這張照片是不可能的 。
now there is a new way open between atlantic and pacific .	大西洋和太平洋之間有一種新的開放方式 。
the thickness of the arctic decreased more than 40 percent since 1960 .	從1960年起 , 北極的厚度降低了40% 。
there is a new face of kilimanjaro without ice .	在沒有冰的情況下 , kilimanjaro就有了新的面孔 。
it lost 80 percent of its ice .	它失去了80%的冰 。
according to scientists , in 100 years all the mountain glacier will be gone .	根據科學家 , 在一百年內 , 所有的山冰川都會消失 。
glaciers are very important for the life on earth .	冰河對地球上的生命是非常重要的 。
like al gore told you , two billion people live on the water from the glacier of himalaya .	如同高爾所說 , 有二十億人住在喜馬拉雅的冰河上 。
return of fish men .	返回魚類的男人 。
one fifth of human kind depend on fish to live .	五分之一的人類是靠魚類生存 。
today now 70 percent of the fish stock are overexploited .	現今有70%的魚類存量過度剝削 。
according to fao , if we don't change our system of fishing the main sea resources will be gone in 2050 .	根據fao , 如果我們不改變我們在2050年捕魚主要海資源的系統 , 將會消失 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
the beautiful picture , by [unclear] in africa .	美麗的照片 , 在非洲 。
one human of six have not enough to eat in the world .	六個人中有六個人沒有足夠的食物 。
one billion people have not enough to eat .	十億人沒有足夠的食物可以吃 。
in africa , corn is one of the main foods in many places .	在非洲 , 玉米是主要食物之一 。
here in america , 90 percent of the corn cultivated is used to feed animals or to do oil .	在美國 , 百分之九十的玉米培育被用來餵養動物或石油 。
palm tree plantation in borneo .	在婆羅的棕櫚樹種植 。
every year we lose 50 thousand square miles in deforestation .	每年我們在森林砍伐中損失了五萬平方英里 。
refugee camp in darfur .	達佛的難民營 。
today we have 20 million refugees in the world .	現今我們有兩千萬難民 。
according to the u . n . , we speak about 250 million refugees in 2050 .	根據聯合國 , 我們在2050年談了大約2億5千萬難民 。
i always show my pictures in the street .	我總是在街上展示我的照片 。
we have done already 100 exhibitions in the cities .	我們已經在城市裡完成了一百次展覽 。
but how to understand the world without the voice of people ?	但 , 要怎麼去了解這個世界 , 卻沒有人的聲音 ?
landscape was not enough .	地景不夠 。
it was obvious to me to do another work .	很明顯我要做另外一件作品 。
i launched a project named six billion others .	我發起了一個名字叫 「 六十億 」 的專案 。
i sent around the world six cameramen asking the same question , the same crucial question , about life .	我在世界各地送了六台攝影機 , 問同樣的問題 , 同樣重要的問題 , 關於生命 。
we have done five thousand interviews .	我們做了五千個訪談 。
i'm going to show you this .	我要給你們看這個 。
man: the most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life ?	男子:我人生中最美好的事 ?
it's when my dad told me , " here , i give you this girl as your fiance . "	當我爸爸跟我說: 「 在這裡 , 我給你這個小說的女孩 。 」
woman: love ? love is nice if you can have it .	女子:愛 ? 愛是很棒的 。
second man: romeo and juliet , sassi and panno , dodi and diana , heer and ranjha , this is love ! third man: my greatest fear is . . .	第二個男人:羅密歐和茱麗葉 , 薩西和潘諾 , 多迪和迪安娜 , 海爾和朗哈 , 這是愛人 ! 第三個人:我最大的恐懼是......
woman: you're asking me a hard question .	女子:你問我一個難題 。
fourth man: i live happily because what else should i do ?	第四個男人:我活得很快樂 , 因為我該怎麼做 ?
fifth man: the first thing i remember . . .	第五個男人:我記得的第一件事......
fifth man: . . . from my childhood , fifth man: we were having fun , biking .	第五個男人:從我小時候開始 , 第五個男人:我們在玩樂 , 自行車 。
seventh man: we invented stories , we flew around the world , while remaining in our attic .	第七個男人:我們發明了故事 , 我們飛到世界各地 , 還留在我們的閣樓裡 。
eighth man: i had a big laugh today .	8個男人:今天我大笑了 。
ninth man: you see , family is . . . it's awful .	第九個男人:你看 , 家庭是......很糟糕 。
10th man: in the word life , you have the life .	第十個男人:在生命中 , 你有生命 。
11th man: who am i ? isn't that the biggest question ?	第十一個男人:我是誰 ? 那不是最大的問題嗎 ?
12th man: if i was to go back to iraq and speak to the people , i'd have to bow down and kiss their feet .	第十二個男人:如果我回到伊拉克 , 和人民說話 , 我就得要向下揮舞 , 親吻他們的腳 。
just as that woman tried to kiss my feet when we were taking her sons .	正如那位女士試圖親吻我的腳 , 我們帶著她的兒子 。
and i feel humbled by their strength .	我覺得他們的力量很謙遜 。
and i will forever feel a need to make reparations to iraq .	我永遠會覺得伊拉克有必要做重覆性 。
second woman: dad , mom , i grew up .	第二個女人:爸 , 媽 , 我長大了 。
you shouldn't worry about me . dad doesn't need to go to work .	你不該擔心我 , 爸爸不需要去工作 。
my family . . . what can i say ?	我的家人......我能說什麼 ?
at the moment , my family is very poor , my life here in shenzhen is just about showing myself that i can earn more and to let my parents stay and have something to live on .	此時此刻 , 我的家人很窮 , 我在深圳的人生 , 只是要讓自己知道 , 我可以賺更多 , 讓我的父母留下來 , 有些事要活下去 。
i don't want them to spend their whole lives in poverty .	我不希望他們一輩子都生活在貧窮中 。
if someday i can achieve something , i would like to say thank you daddy and mommy .	如果有一天我能做到某件事 , 我會說謝謝你爸爸和媽媽 。
thank you for having fed me and raised me , and for making my life of today . thank you .	謝謝你養了我 , 養育了我今天的人生 。 謝謝你 。
13th man: after seven years now of being in a wheelchair , i've done more in life being in a chair than out of a chair .	13個男人:七年後 , 身在輪椅上 , 我在人生中 , 比起椅子 , 做了更多的事 。
i still surf . i sail the world . i freedive .	我仍然衝浪 , 我航行這個世界 , 我自由 。
after many people said i couldn't do that .	許多人說我不能這樣做 。
and i think that comes from connecting with nature , connecting with the energy of life , because we're all disabled in some way on the planet spiritually , mentally or physically .	我想這是因為與大自然連結 , 與生命的能量連結 , 因為我們都處於某種程度上 , 在某種程度上 , 在地球上 , 心理上或身體上 。
i got the easy part .	我得到了很簡單的部分 。
14th man: let's say that you and me like each other .	第十四個男人:讓我們說你和我一樣 。
you come from elsewhere .	你來自其他地方 。
you don't know me . i don't know you .	你不知道我 , 我不知道你 。
we talk without lying .	我們說話時不說謊 。
if i do like you , i give you one cow and many other things and we become friends .	如果我喜歡你 , 我會給你一頭牛和許多其他東西 , 我們會成為朋友 。
how can we make it all by ourselves ?	我們要如何用我們自己來做這些事 ?
yab: you can also go to the website , answer respond to the questions also .	yab:你還可以到網站上 , 回答這些問題 。
now i am going to speak to you about my movie .	現在我要跟你們談談我的電影 。
for the last three years , i was shooting the earth for the movie .	過去三年 , 我在拍攝電影的地球 。
the name of the movie is " home " " maison . "	這部電影的名字是 「 家 」 。
it is about the state of the planet .	它是關於地球的狀態 。
it's a fantastic story of life on the earth .	這是地球上生命的一個神奇故事 。
i'm very proud to show you the teaser .	我很驕傲地向各位展示這個茶壺 。
video: this earth is four and a half billion years old .	影片:地球已經有四十五億年了 。
these plants , several hundred million years old .	這些植物 , 數億年前 。
and we humans have been walking upright for only 200 thousand years .	我們人類已經直立行走了2萬年 。
we've managed to adapt , and have conquered the whole planet .	我們成功適應了 , 並且征服了整個地球 。
for generations , we've been raising our children , not unlike millions of other species living beside us .	世代以來 , 我們一直在養育我們的孩子 , 不像其他數百萬種物種生活在我們旁邊 。
for the past 30 years i've been closely watching the earth and its dwellers from high up in the sky .	過去三十年來 , 我在天空中看過地球和它的居民 。
our life is tied to the wellbeing of our planet .	我們的生活和地球的幸福感綁在一起 。
we depend on water , forests , deserts , oceans .	我們仰賴水、森林、沙漠、海洋 。
fishing , breeding , farming are still the world's foremost human occupations .	捕魚、繁殖、農業 , 仍然是世界上人類最重要的職業 。
and what binds us together is far greater than what divides us .	把我們結合在一起的 , 遠比我們分裂的更大 。
we all share the same need for the earth's gifts the same wish to rise above ourselves , and become better .	我們都一樣 , 對地球的禮物有著相同的願望 , 能在我們自己上方興起 , 變得更好 。
and yet we carry on raising walls to keep us apart .	然而 , 我們卻繼續靠高牆來維持我們 。
today our greatest battle is to protect the natural offerings of our planet .	今天 , 我們最偉大的戰役就是保護地球的天然資源 。
in less than 50 years we've altered it more thoroughly than in the entire history of mankind .	不到五十年 , 我們已經徹底改變了它 , 比人類歷史上整個歷史都還要更徹底 。
half of the world's forests have vanished .	世界上一半的森林已經消失了 。
water resources are running low .	水資源是很低的 。
intensive farming is depleting soils .	加護農業正在耗盡土壤 。
our energy sources are not sustainable .	我們的能源來源無法永續發展 。
the climate is changing .	氣候正在改變 。
we are endangering ourselves .	我們正在危害我們自己 。
we're only trying to improve our lives .	我們只想改善我們的生活 。
but the wealth gaps are growing wider .	但財富差距正在擴大 。
we haven't yet understood that we're going at a much faster pace than the planet can sustain .	我們尚未明白 , 我們正在邁向比地球還快很多的速度 。
we know that solutions are available today .	我們知道 , 現今的解決方案是可以取得的 。
we all have the power to change this trend for the better .	我們都有能力去更好地改變這個趨勢 。
so what are we waiting for ?	所以 , 我們還在等什麼 ?
yab: luc besson is the producer of the movie .	yab:lucbeson是電影的製作者 。
but it is not a normal movie .	但這不是一般的電影 。
the film is going to be distributed free .	這部電影將是免費的 。
this film has no copyright .	這部電影沒有版權 。
on the five of june , the environment day , everybody can download the movie on internet .	在六月五日 , 環境日 , 每個人都可以在網路上下載這部電影 。
the film is given for free to the distributor for tv and theater to show it the fifth of june .	這部電影是免費提供給電視的分佈者和劇院 , 讓它在六月五日展現 。
there is no business on this movie .	這部電影上沒有生意 。
it is also available for school , cities , ngos and you .	這對學校、城市、非政府組織和你來說也是如此 。
we have to believe what we know .	我們必須相信我們所知道的 。
let me tell you something .	讓我告訴你們一些事 。
it's too late to be pessimistic really too late .	悲觀已經太晚了 。
we have all a part of the solutions .	我們都有解決方案的一部分 。
to finish , i would like to welcome the 4 , 700th baby born since the beginning of this talk .	為了完成 , 我想歡迎從這場演講開始 , 4 , 700個嬰兒出生 。
merci beaucoup . i love you .	我愛你 。
illustrious jugglers the raspyni brothers show off their uncanny balance , agility , coordination and willingness to sacrifice . now , if you'll just stand completely still . . .	不可思議的雜耍家拉斯普尼兄弟 , 展現出他們不可思議的平衡、優雅、協調、願意犧牲的平衡 。 現在 , 如果你完全依舊......
collaboration , entertainment , humor , physics	合作、娛樂、幽默、物理學、物理學 。
the raspyni brothers juggle and jest	拉斯普尼兄弟雜耍和吉祥物 。
dan holzman: please throw out the beanbag chairs . here we go .	丹.霍茲曼:請把這張貝安那格椅子丟出來 , 來吧 。
barry friedman: there are all kinds of hightech chairs here today , but this is really , i think , when it reached its peak as far as ergonomics , comfort , design , flexibility . . .	貝里•弗里德曼:今天這裡有各式各樣的高科技椅子 , 但我認為 , 這真的是 , 當它到達它的高峰時 , 它的高峰 , 舒適、設計、靈活性......
dh: now obviously , this is not something we do on our regular show ; it's something we just kind of learned for this , so we're going to try . but can we have some inspirational music for the beanbag chairs ?	很明顯的 , 這不是我們一般的節目 , 這是我們剛剛學到的 , 所以我們要試試看的 。 但我們能否為beanbag椅做一些鼓舞人心的音樂 ?
bf: nice show , daniel , nice show . you are the man !	很棒的節目 , 丹尼爾 , 很棒的節目 。 你就是那個男人 !
nice show . man , that was good !	太棒了 ! 老兄 , 太棒了 !
bf: you know , sometimes when people do those , they go all the way down .	布:你知道 , 有時候當人們這樣做時 , 他們就會一直往下走 。
you actually just did that .	你真的做到了 。
that's the kind of extra effort that's gotten us where we are today . . .	這就是我們今天所在的額外努力 。
dh: all right , let's show them something special .	好的 , 讓我們給他們看一些特別的東西 。
bf: . . . without a macarthur grant .	布:沒有macarthurgant 。
yeah , look at this . you know , all kinds of different . . .	是的 , 看看這個 。 你知道的 , 各式各樣 。
ted is about invention , let's be honest . right ? dh: yeah , it is .	ted是關於發明 , 老實說吧 ? dh:是的 。
bf: last night , michael moschen showed some juggling props he has invented and working on .	昨晚michaelmoschen展示了一些他發明的雜耍道具 , 並且繼續努力 。
right now , dan's going to show something he actually invented .	現在 , dan將要展示他發明的東西 。
dh: a type of juggling i actually invented , right after i saw another juggler do it .	dh:我真的發明了一種雜耍形式 , 就在我看到另一位雜耍者這麼做之後 。
dh: and this is a small excerpt from a longer piece .	dh:這是一段長長的曲子 。
folks , this is shaker cup juggling . it's not a showstopper but it certainly slows it down .	各位 , 這是shaker的雜耍 , 不是一個秀家 , 但它肯定會讓它慢下來 。
bf: oh yeah , it does .	噢 , 是的 。
bf: oh , daniel .	喔 , 丹尼爾 。
bf: ok . dh: oh ! all right .	ok.dh:噢 ! 好的 。
i'm now pushing my luck: i'm skipping right to six cups .	我現在在推我的運氣:我跳過了六個杯子 。
in order to do six cups , i must have perfect control over three with my right hand .	為了要做六個杯子 , 我必須要完美地控制三個雙手 。
bf: also three with his left .	布:左邊還有三條 。
and now , all six cups . should i do it on the first try or should i miss once on purpose ?	現在 , 六個杯子 。 我該先試試試一次 , 還是我應該錯過一次目的 ?
bf: first try ? once on purpose ?	首先試試看嗎 ? 一次試試看 ?
dh: how about if i try first and then decide ?	dh:如果我先試一試 , 然後決定呢 ?
bf: good idea . let's leave that . we'll leave that door open .	布:好主意 。 讓我們離開那扇門 。 我們把那扇門打開 。
dh: he's looking at me .	他看著我 。
bf: that's all right , he does that . all right .	沒關係 , 他做得好 。
dh: oh ! it's time for richard's help .	噢 ! 該是richard的幫助的時候了 。
oh , good . all right .	喔 , 很好 。 好 。
bf: you know , over the years , every year at the conference , it's kind of become a tradition for us to do something dangerous with richard . and we've always done something with the bullwhips in our act . it's funny , for years i did it with daniel holding balloons .	布:你知道嗎 , 多年來 , 每一年都在會議中 , 我們在理查做一些危險的事 。 我們一直都在做一些事情 , 用我們在我們的表演中 , 很有趣 , 多年來我和丹尼爾拿著氣球一起做 。
and then we thought , " how stupid . "	然後我們想: 「 多麼愚蠢 。 」
dh: excuse me , could we work on the design of the microphone ?	不好意思 , 我們能否設計麥克風的設計 ?
bf: i think that's the next session .	布:我想這是下一個會議 。
bf: yeah . and so we've actually found a way to incorporate richard in this .	布:是的 。 所以我們真的找到了把richard納入其中的一種方式 。
he actually assumes more of the danger in this .	他實際上假設了更多的危險 。
dh: please stand up , richard .	請站起來 , 理查
dh: now richard , please . . .	現在 , 拜託 ,
bf: ok , sorry .	好 , 抱歉 。
dh: jesus christ . richard , please stand in front of me .	耶穌基督 , 理查 , 請站在我面前 。
richard wurman: can i say something ?	理查•沃爾曼:我能說些什麼嗎 ?
rw: in all past years i've rehearsed with them , the things that have happened to me i have no idea what's going to happen and that's the truth .	雷恩:過去幾年來 , 我向他們重新排練 , 發生在我身上的事 , 我不知道接下來會發生什麼事 , 這就是真相 。
dh: all right , please stand here in front . . .	好 , 請站在這裡 。
god , i hate that . put your hands out like this , please .	天啊 , 我討厭這一點 。 請把你的手當成這樣 。
bf: no , come stay up with him .	不 , 請跟他一起過來 。
dan used to actually hold them but now he's got you for protection .	丹以前會抱著他們 , 但現在他有你保護的能力 。
it's kind of neat . ok .	有點不錯 。 好 。
dh: wow , you've been working out .	哇 , 你一直在努力 。
bf: no , shut up !	不 , 閉嘴 !
having a little bit of richard time . that's nice , that's good .	有一點點理查時間 。 很好 , 很好 。
ok , here we go .	好 , 來吧 。
have him hold your wrist so i can . . .	請他拿著你的手腕 , 讓我可以...
dh: please hold my wrist , will you . bf: yeah , hold this a minute .	請舉手 , 請舉手 , 請舉手 。 請舉手 。 請舉手 。
ok , hold on .	好 , 等等 。
bf: all those midyear phone calls are coming back to me now , richard .	那些中年打來的電話 , 正要回到我身邊 , 理查 。
dh: so richard , what were we on the list ? like 1 , 020 ?	博士:理查 , 我們列出了什麼 ? 像1 , 020 ?
bf: i think we were just outside .	布:我想我們就在外面 。
dh: sorry . bf: having some bad flashbacks .	抱歉 。 布:有一些不好的閃光 。
rw: do you want me to hold you or not ? dh: don't hold me that hard .	雷恩:你要我抱住你嗎 ? dh:不要抱我這麼難 。
bf: here we go , i'm taking it .	布:來吧 , 我正在服用它 。
dh: one more , one more .	再來一次 。
bf: we've got one more we're going to do .	布:我們還有一件事要做 。
rw: do i get to hold them ?	雷恩:我能拿住他們嗎 ?
bf: you don't want to hold these , trust me .	bf:你不想忍住這些 , 相信我 。
dh: could you spread your legs a little bit ?	大衛:你能不能把你的腿散開一點 ?
bf: gloria , you want to do it ? it's very cool .	布:格洛里亞 , 你想做嗎 ? 很酷 。
one more try . man , i don't want to get too close .	再試一次 。 老兄 , 我不想太靠近 。
could you just push that ?	可以推一下嗎 ?
dh: wow ! boy !	哇 !
bf: that's cool . i always wanted to try that .	布:那很酷 。 我一直都想試試看 。
dh: let's jump this way , though .	不過 , 我們就這樣跳下去 。
now , we risked richard's life , it's only fair we risk our own lives .	現在 , 我們冒著richard的生命 , 我們只冒著自己的生命危險 。
so to do that , i will juggle these three razorsharp sickles .	為了做到這一點 , 我會用三種razorsharp生病 。
and if that wasn't enough , and judging by your response , it's not . . .	如果這還不夠 , 根據你的反應來判斷 , 不是......
dh: wow ! bf: hoping for a little more build .	哇 ! 希望有更多的建設 。
dh: true . barry . . .	沒錯 , 芭瑞......
bf: i'm going to run up behind him .	布:我要跑到他身後 。
dh: leap over my shoulder .	大衛:躍過我的肩膀 。
bf: up and over his shoulders .	布:上下和他的肩膀 。
dh: grab the blades in midair , land right there in a pool of blood . . .	dh:在半空中抓住爆炸 , 就在那兒放了一池血......
impossible , you say ?	你說 , 不可能嗎 ?
bf: incredible , you say ?	很不可思議 , 你說 ?
dh: why bother , you say ?	你說 , 為什麼麻煩 ?
bf: here we go .	來吧 。
dh: just do it juggler boys , you say ?	dh:你說 , 要不要雜耍男孩 ?
bf: this guy , this guy invented air .	布:這個傢伙 , 發明了空氣 。
dh: i think so , that's right .	我想 , 沒錯 。
bf: he invented the pencil .	他發明了鉛筆 。
dh: all right , we'll do this trick , but please remember it took us over 10 years to perfect .	好 , 我們來試試一下 , 請記住 , 我們花了超過十年才完美 。
bf: ten years to perfect , which you're about to see .	布:你即將看到的完美10年 。
dh: it's not that difficult , we just don't like to practice that much .	沒那麼困難 , 我們只是不太喜歡練習 。
bf: no , it's a hassle . traveling too much .	布:不 , 它是一根針 , 太多旅行 。
actually , we will take a second to prove this could be fake that the blades are indeed razorsharp .	事實上 , 我們要花一秒鐘來證明這可能是假的 , 那些刀片的確有刀尖 。
dh: will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage ?	有人會把小農場動物丟到台上嗎 ?
or a virgin for a sacrifice ?	或是犧牲的處女 ?
bf: no , she's got . . . farm animal .	布:不 , 她有...農場動物 。
dh: do you have a small farm animal ?	你有隻小農場動物嗎 ?
just trying to play the odds . all right , here we go .	試試玩奇數 。 好 , 開始吧 。
bf: over the top , over the top .	布:在上方 , 上方 。
dh: how you feeling , barry ? you feeling all right ?	你感覺如何 ? 芭瑞 ? 你感覺好嗎 ?
bf: yeah , it's all right .	沒關係 , 沒關係 。
dh: do you feel everything's ok ? the atmosphere , the . . .	dh:你能感受到一切好嗎 ? 大氣 , ......
bf: yeah , a little sketchy .	布:是的 , 有點草圖 。
dh: everything up here's ok ?	上面的一切都沒關係嗎 ?
dh: then here we go .	dh:然後我們開始吧 。
bf: this one's a little . . . who's doing the lights ? could you point that a little more directly into my eyeballs ? is that possible ? i can still see a little .	布:這一個是有點小的 。 誰在照明燈 ? 你能指出我的眼球更直接一點嗎 ? 我還能看到一點點 。
dh: and turn up the intensity ; we're still pink in the middle .	大衛:提高強度 , 我們還是在中間的粉紅色 。
we went too far .	我們走得太遠了 。
bf: yeah , it's too far . it's too much of a visual .	是的 , 太遠了 , 太多的視覺化了 。
the design of the body is a whole different thing .	身體的設計是完全不同的 。
dh: ready , barry ? bf: over the top .	準備好了嗎 ? bf:在上面 。
dh: may we have our jumping music please ?	我們能不能有我們的跳躍音樂 ?
may we have it a bit louder ?	我們能讓它更大一點嗎 ?
bf: they're a good crew ! whoa !	布:他們是好的牛 ! 哇 !
dh: whoa , sorry . all right .	哇 , 抱歉 。 好的 。
bf: we're going on .	布:我們正在做 。
dh: all right , we'll try again .	好 , 我們再試一次 。
bf: all right ? oh my gosh . oh .	好嗎 ? 天啊 ! 噢 !
dh: all right , here we go . sorry about that .	好 , 抱歉 。
bf: i thought i had the hard part . ok .	布:我以為我有困難的部分 。 好 。
dh: whenever you're ready .	每當你準備好的時候 。
bf: there we go !	開始了 !
all right , get up ! come on and dance ! dh: dance , come on . bf: come on and dance !	好 , 起來吧 ! 來吧 , 跳吧 ! dh:舞 , 來吧 。 bf:來跳吧 !
somebody dance ! come on !	有人跳舞 ! 來吧 !
wow , wow , ok , stop .	哇 , 哇 , 好 , 停下來 。
weird , no one dances . we're two guys doing this .	很奇怪 , 沒有人跳舞 。 我們有兩個人在做這件事 。
i think that's uncomfortable for everyone .	我認為這對每個人來說是很不舒服的 。
dh: the french judge . . .	法國法官......
bf: one more quick thing .	再快一點 。
dh: the french judge gives it a 5 . 2 .	法國法國法官給它5.2 。
bf: well , you know . . .	布:嗯 , 嗯...
dh: there you go . . . bf: oh , yeah . another one coming in .	dh:好了 。 bf:噢 , 對 , 另一個進來了 。
dh: tell them about our bio and stuff .	跟他們談談我們的生物和東西 。
bf: yeah . in our bio , some of you may have read that we've won two world juggling championships .	布:是的 , 在我們的生物中 , 你們有些人可能讀過我們贏得了兩個世界雜耍冠軍 。
and believe it or not , you don't win juggling champions for doing things with bullwhips or shaker cups .	信不信由你 , 你不會贏得雜耍冠軍 , 用野牛或破碎的杯子來做事 。
we're going to show you right now an excerpt from a routine that we used to wipe out the other juggling team competition .	我們現在要向你們展示一個我們以前用的例行式來拆解另一個雜耍隊伍的比賽 。
dh: i know what you're thinking: other juggling teams must really suck .	dh:我知道你在想什麼 , 其他雜耍隊伍一定很糟糕 。
bf: juggling's got a bad rap .	朱利安:雜耍的強暴很糟 。
dh: but wait , barry , there's still one more club lying there by my foot .	等等 , 貝瑞 , 我的腳還剩下一個俱樂部 。
and look , it has a twin !	看 , 它有雙胞胎 !
dh: there's still one more by my foot .	dh:還有一個是我的腳 。
what do you want me to do with it ?	你希望我用它做什麼 ?
bf: richard you tell him , it's your last year .	bf:richard你跟他說 , 這是你去年的 。
dh: that's a pretty good setup , richard .	dh:那是非常好的安置 , 理查 。
bf: yeah , it's a good setup . that's a big setup .	沒錯 , 這是個好的組合 。 這是個很大的組合 。
dh: you can't get any better than that . all right . what i will do: i will use my pantherlike reflexes .	dh:你沒辦法做得更好 。 好 , 我會做的是:我會用我的胰島素反射 。
dh: i got that to reach down and grab that club in my grip of steel .	dh:我拿到這個 , 抓住那個俱樂部 , 抓住我的鋼索 。
dh: i touched it , barry . that should be enough .	dh:我碰到它 , barry , 那應該夠了 。
bf: it's progress , that's the thing .	布:那是進步 , 事情就是這樣 。
dh: how about that ? i'll do it again .	dh:怎麼辦 ? 我再做一次 。
oh wait , it's on your side , barry .	喔 ! 等等 , 貝瑞 。
and it's awfully windy over there .	這邊的風很糟 。
bf: it is , it's weird . you wouldn't think it would affect half the stage , but it is . it's weird .	沒錯 , 很奇怪 。 你不會認為它會影響半個舞台 , 但那是很奇怪的 。
watch this: what i'm going to do is slide the seventh one onto my foot .	看這個:我要做的是把第七張投影片放到我的腳上 。
dh: wow ! what a great trick , barry !	哇 ! 太棒了 !
oh , look how it lies there .	喔 , 看看它是怎麼說的 。
oh , barry , is there nothing you can't do ?	噢 , 芭瑞 , 你什麼都沒做 ?
you are my hero . you're my jim shea , jr .	你是我的英雄 。 你是我的吉姆希亞 , jr.
bf: from my foot , i'll attempt to kick the seventh club . here we go .	布:從我的腳開始 , 我會試著踢第七個俱樂部 。 來吧 。
dh: where , barry ? where ? tell us , barry .	貝瑞在哪裡 ? 告訴我們 , 芭瑞 。
[unclear] eagerly awaits your next syllable . what will it be ?	[不清楚]急迫地等著你的下一代 , 會是什麼樣子 ?
what gem of knowledge ?	什麼樣的知識 ?
what pearl of wisdom ?	什麼是智慧的珍珠 ?
do you want to buy a vowel , barry ?	你想買vowel , barry ?
is that your final answer ?	答案是你的最後一個答案嗎 ?
bf: all right ! you have to turn off the tv from time to time .	布:好的 ! 你得把電視關掉 。
dh: i do , i do .	dh:我有 , 我有 。
bf: from my foot , the kick up in the seven .	布:從我的腳開始 , 七個就被踢上去 。
dh: we will juggle seven .	我們要七個雜耍 。
bf: from six to seven . dh: that's a world's record . bf: really ? dh: for us .	布:從六到七 。 dh:這是世界的紀錄 。 真的嗎 ? dh:對我們來說 。
dh: whenever you're ready there , big guy .	每當你準備好的時候 , 大人 。
put your tongue away , barry .	把你的舌頭拿走 , 芭瑞 。
bf: oh , oh , whoa .	喔 , 喔 , 哇 。
dh: please , please stay seated . stay seated . thank you .	拜託 , 拜託 , 請坐下來 , 坐下來 。 謝謝 。
because now , to make this twice as difficult , we'll juggle the seven clubs back . . .	因為現在 , 要讓這一切變得更困難兩倍 , 我們要再來談七個俱樂部 。
dh: . . . to back .	dh:...回來 。
bf: thank you , that's it .	布:謝謝你 , 就這樣 。
bf: thank you guys !	布:謝謝你們 !
dh: thank you very much !	非常謝謝你 !
in this accessible talk from tedxboston , richard resnick shows how cheap and fast genome sequencing is about to turn health care upside down .	在tedxboston , richardresnick的這個談話中 , 顯示出 , 要把健康照護轉換成很便宜且快速的基因定序 。
dna , biotech , health care , science , technology	dna、生物科技、健康照護、科學、科技、科技、科技、科技 。
richard resnick: welcome to the genomic revolution	理查•雷斯尼克:歡迎來到基因革命的基因革命 。
ladies and gentlemen , i present to you the human genome .	各位先生女士 , 我向你們展示人類基因組 。
chromosome one , top left .	第一 , 染色體 , 左上方 。
bottom right are the sex chromosomes .	右下角是性染色體 。
women have two copies of that big x chromosome ; men have the x and , of course , that small copy of the y .	女性有兩份大型x染色體 ; 男性有x , 當然 , 男性有y的小版本 。
sorry boys , but it's just a tiny little thing that makes you different .	抱歉男孩們 , 但這只是一個小東西 , 讓你有所不同 。
so if you zoom in on this genome , then what you see , of course , is this double helix structure the code of life spelled out with these four biochemical letters , or we call them bases , right: a , c , g and t .	所以如果你放大這個基因組 , 當然 , 你會看到這個雙螺旋結構--生命的代碼--這四個生物化學字母 , 或者我們稱之為基礎:a、c、g和t 。
how many are there in the human genome ? three billion .	人類基因組有多少 ? 三十億 。
is that a big number ?	這是個很大的數字嗎 ?
well , everybody can throw around big numbers .	嗯 , 所有人都可以投入大量的數字 。
but in fact , if i were to place one base on each pixel of this 1280 by 800 resolution screen , we would need 3 , 000 screens to take a look at the genome .	但事實上 , 如果我把這1280的像素放到1800的解析度螢幕上 , 我們需要3 , 000個螢幕來檢視基因組 。
so it's really quite big .	這真的很大 。
and perhaps because of its size , a group of people all , by the way , with y chromosomes decided they would want to sequence it .	也許是因為它的大小 , 順便一提 , 有一群人 , y染色體決定要定序它 。
and so 15 years , actually , and about four billion dollars later , the genome was sequenced and published .	事實上 , 15年後 , 大約四十億美元後 , 基因組序列和出版了 。
in 2003 , the final version was published , and they keep working on it .	在2003年 , 最後的版本被發表 , 他們繼續研究它 。
that was all done on a machine that looks like this .	這一切都是在這樣的機器上完成的 。
it costs about a dollar for each base a very slow way of doing it .	每一鹼基都要花一塊錢 , 非常緩慢的做法 。
well folks , i'm here to tell you that the world has completely changed and none of you know about it .	各位 , 我來這裡是要告訴各位 , 世界已經完全改變了 , 沒有人知道它 。
so now what we do is we take a genome , we make maybe 50 copies of it , we cut all those copies up into little 50base reads , and then we sequence them , massively parallel .	所以 , 我們現在做的是把基因組做成五十個複製品 , 我們把這些複製品切成五十個頁面 , 然後我們將它們定序 , 大規模平行 。
and then we bring that into software , and we reassemble it and we tell you what the story is .	然後我們把它帶到軟體裡 , 再重組它 , 告訴你這個故事是什麼 。
and so just to give you a picture of what this looks like , the human genome project: 3 gigabases , right .	所以 , 給大家看看這是什麼樣子 , 人類的基因組計畫:三吉布斯 , 沒錯 。
one run on one of these machines: 200 gigabases in a week .	一個在其中一台機器運行:一個星期內有200gb 。
and that 200 is going to change to 600 this summer , and there's no sign of this pace slowing .	今年夏天將改變2000年 , 沒有任何步伐減慢的跡象 。
so the price of a base , to sequence a base , has fallen 100 million times .	所以 , 要定序一個鹼基的價格 , 已經下降了一億倍 。
that's the equivalent of you filling up your car with gas in 1998 , waiting until 2011 , and now you can drive to jupiter and back twice .	等同於你在1998年填滿氣體的車子 , 等到2011年 , 現在你可以開車到木星 , 再回來兩次 。
world population , pc placements , the archive of all the medical literature , moore's law , the old way of sequencing , and here's all the new stuff .	世界人口、pc定位、所有醫學文獻的檔案、摩爾定律、古老的定序方式 , 這裡有所有的新東西 。
guys , this is a log scale ; you don't typically see lines that go up like that .	各位 , 這是一個標誌 , 你通常不會看到像這樣的線條 。
so the worldwide capacity to sequence human genomes is something like 50 , 000 to 100 , 000 human genomes this year .	所以 , 全世界對於人類基因序列的能力大約是今年大約有五萬到十萬個人類基因組 。
and we know this based on the machines that are being placed .	我們知道這個基於被放置的機器 。
this is expected to double , triple or maybe quadruple year over year for the foreseeable future .	這是預期的兩倍 , 三倍或四倍 , 可能是可預期的未來一年 。
in fact , there's one lab in particular that represents 20 percent of all that capacity .	事實上 , 有一個實驗室 , 其中有20%的能力 。
it's called the beijing genomics institute .	它叫做北京基因組學研究所 。
the chinese are absolutely winning this race to the new moon , by the way .	中國人絕對贏得了新月球的比賽 。
what does this mean for medicine ?	這對醫藥有什麼意義 ?
so a woman is age 37 .	一個女人是37歲 。
she presents with stage 2 estrogen receptorpositive breast cancer .	她用 「 階段2 」 來呈現雌激素受體乳癌 。
she is treated with surgery , chemotherapy and radiation .	她接受手術、化療和放射線治療 。
two years later , she comes back with stage three c ovarian cancer .	兩年後 , 她帶著三c型卵巢癌回來 。
unfortunately , treated again with surgery and chemotherapy .	不幸的是 , 再次接受外科手術和化療 。
she comes back three years later at age 42 with more ovarian cancer , more chemotherapy .	三年後她回到42歲 , 患有更多卵巢癌 , 更多化療 。
six months later , she comes back with acute myeloid leukemia .	六個月後 , 她帶著急性骨髓性白血病回來 。
she goes into respiratory failure and dies eight days later .	她進入呼吸衰竭 , 八天後死亡 。
so first , the way in which this woman was treated , in as little as 10 years , will look like bloodletting .	首先 , 這位女士被治療的方式 , 在短短十年內 , 看起來會像血液流動 。
and it's because of people like my colleague , rick wilson , at the genome institute at washington university , who decided to take a look at this woman postmortem .	因為像我同事rickwilson這樣的人 , 在華盛頓大學的基因研究所 , 他決定去看這位女士後遺體 。
and he sequenced , he took skin cells , healthy skin , and cancerous bone marrow , and he sequenced the whole genomes of both of them in a couple of weeks , no big deal .	他定序了皮膚細胞 , 健康的皮膚 , 癌症的骨髓 , 將兩者的整個基因序列定序 , 在幾個星期內 , 沒什麼大不了的 。
and then he compared those two genomes in software , and what he found , among other things , was a deletion , a 2 , 000base deletion across three billion bases in a particular gene called tp53 .	接著 , 他把這兩種基因和軟體比較 , 他發現 , 在其它東西當中 , 是一個刪除 , 一個有兩千多個鹼基的基因 , 一個叫tp53的基因 。
if you have this deleterious mutation in this gene , you're 90 percent likely to get cancer in your life .	如果你在這個基因中有這種良好的突變 , 你就有90%的可能性會罹患癌症 。
so unfortunately , this doesn't help this woman , but it does have severe , profound if you will , implications to her family .	不幸的是 , 這對這位女士並不有幫助 , 但如果你願意的話 , 它的確有嚴重的影響 , 對她的家人有著深刻的影響 。
i mean , if they have the same mutation , and they get this genetic test , and they understand it , then they can go and get regular screens , and they can catch cancer early and potentially live a significantly longer life .	我的意思是 , 如果他們有相同的突變 , 他們得到了這個基因測驗 , 他們了解它 , 那麼他們就可以取得一般的螢幕 , 他們就可以追蹤癌症 , 可能活得更久 。
let me introduce you now to the beery twins , diagnosed with cerebral palsy at the age of two .	讓我向各位介紹beery雙胞胎 , 在兩歲時被診斷出腦性麻痺 。
their mom is a very brave woman who didn't believe that the symptoms weren't matching up , and through some heroic efforts and a lot of internet searching , she was able to convince the medical community that , in fact , they had something else .	他們的母親是一位非常勇敢的女子 , 她不相信症狀並不符合 , 透過一些英勇的努力和網路搜尋 , 她能夠說服醫學界 , 事實上 , 他們還有其他東西 。
what they had was doparesponsive dystonia .	他們所擁有的是 「 雙關節障礙 」 。
and so they were given ldopa , and their symptoms did improve , but they weren't totally asymptomatic .	所以他們得到了dopa , 他們的症狀確實改善了 , 但他們並非完全的症狀 。
turns out the gentleman in this picture is a guy named joe beery , who was lucky enough to be the cio of a company called life technologies .	這張照片中的先生是一位叫joebeery的傢伙他很幸運能成為一家叫做生命科技的公司
they're one of the two companies that makes these massive whole genome sequencing tools .	它們是兩家公司之一 , 製造這些大量的基因組定序工具 。
and so what he did was he got his kids sequenced .	所以他所做的是 , 他拿了他的孩子序列 。
and what they found was a series of mutations in a gene called spr , which is responsible for producing serotonin , among other things .	他們發現一系列的突變 , 在一個叫做 「 春天 」 的基因中 , 負責產生血清素 , 其它東西 。
so on top of ldopa , they gave these kids a serotonin precursor drug , and they're effectively normal now .	所以 , 在dopa的上方 , 他們給了這些孩子一種血清素的先驅藥物 , 他們現在很正常 。
guys , this would never have happened without whole genome sequencing .	各位 , 如果沒有完整的基因定序 , 就不會發生這種事 。
and at the time this was a few years ago it cost $100 , 000 .	幾年前 , 當時是10萬美金 。
today it's $10 , 000 . next year it's $1 , 000 .	今天是一萬元 , 明年是一千元 。
the year after it's $100 , give or take a year .	在百元後的那一年 , 或花一年的時間 。
that's how fast this is moving .	這就是移動的速度 。
so here's little nick likes batman and squirt guns .	這裡有一些小小的尼克 , 像是蝙蝠俠和松鼠槍 。
and it turns out nick shows up at the children's hospital with this distended belly like a famine victim .	結果發現 , 尼克在兒童醫院出現 , 腹部像個饑荒受害者一樣 。
and it's not that he's not eating , it's that when he eats , his intestine basically opens up and feces spill out into his gut .	並不是說他吃不了 , 而是當他吃的時候 , 他的腸道基本上會打開 , 糞便會流出他的腸子 。
so a hundred surgeries later , he looks at his mom and says , " mom , please pray for me . i'm in so much pain . "	一百個手術後 , 他看著他的媽媽說: 「 媽 , 拜託我 , 我很痛苦 。 」
his pediatrician happens to have a background in clinical genetics and he has no idea what's going on , but he says , " let's get this kid's genome sequenced . "	他的小兒科醫師剛好有臨床遺傳學的背景 , 他不知道發生了什麼事 , 但他說: 「 我們來取得這個孩子的基因序列 。 」
and what they find is a singlepoint mutation in a gene responsible for controlling programmed cell death .	而他們發現 , 一個單點突變 , 負責控制程式編寫的細胞死亡的基因 。
so the theory is that he's having some immunological reaction to what's going on to the food essentially , and that's a natural reaction , which causes some programmed cell death .	所以 , 理論是 , 他對食物的反應有一些免疫反應 , 本質上 , 是天然的反應 , 會造成細胞死亡 。
but the gene that regulates that down is broken .	但管制下的基因被破壞了 。
and so this informs , among other things , of course , a treatment for bone marrow transplant , which he undertakes .	當然 , 這也包含了骨髓移植的一種治療方式 , 可以治療骨髓移植 。
and after nine months of grueling recovery , he's now eating steak with a1 sauce .	經過九個月的讚美康復後 , 他現在正在吃牛排一醬 。
the prospect of using the genome as a universal diagnostic is upon us today .	把基因組當作一個普遍診斷的前景 , 現今我們已經有了 。
today , it's here .	今天 , 它在這裡 。
and what it means for all of us is that everybody in this room could live an extra five , 10 , 20 years just because of this one thing .	對我們所有人來說 , 意思是 , 在座的每個人都可以多過5、10、20年 , 因為這一件事 。
which is a fantastic story , unless you think about humanity's footprint on the planet and our ability to keep up food production .	這是個很棒的故事 , 除非你想到地球上人類的足跡 , 以及我們能維持食物生產的能力 。
so it turns out that the very same technology is also being used to grow new lines of corn , wheat , soybean and other crops that are highly tolerant of drought , of flood , of pests and pesticides .	結果發現 , 同樣的技術也被用來種植新的玉米、小麥、大豆和其他農作物 , 這些都是乾旱、洪水、害蟲和殺蟲劑 。
now look , as long as we continue to increase the population , we're going to have to continue to grow and eat genetically modified foods , and that's the only position that i'll take today .	看看 , 只要我們繼續增加人口 , 我們就得繼續種植、吃基因改造食物 , 這是我今天唯一需要的位置 。
unless there's anybody in the audience that would like to volunteer to stop eating ?	除非觀眾中有任何人想要自願停止吃飯 ?
none , not one .	沒有人 , 沒有人 。
this is a typewriter , a staple of every desktop for decades .	這是一台打字機 , 數十年來每個桌面的一大堆 。
and in fact , the typewriter was essentially deleted by this thing .	事實上 , 打字機基本上被這東西刪除 。
and then more general versions of word processors came about .	接著 , 更廣泛的單詞處理器就出現了 。
but ultimately , it was a disruption on top of a disruption .	但最終 , 這種顛覆在顛覆上是種顛覆性 。
it was bob metcalfe inventing the ethernet and the connection of all these computers that fundamentally changed everything .	巴布.米特.卡夫夫發明了網路和所有這些電腦的連結 , 從根本上改變了一切 。
and suddenly we had netscape , and we had yahoo and we had , indeed , the entire dotcom bubble .	突然間 , 我們有了netscape , 我們有了yahoo和我們 , 的確 , 整個網路泡沫 。
not to worry though , that was quickly rescued by the ipod , facebook and , indeed , angry birds .	不過不用擔心 , 很快就被ipod、facebook , 和憤怒的鳥兒拯救了 。
look , this is where we are today .	聽著 , 這就是我們今天的所在 。
this is the genomic revolution today . this is where we are .	這是今天的基因革命 。 這是我們所在的地方 。
so what i'd like you to consider is: what does it mean when these dots don't represent the individual bases of your genome , but they connect to genomes all across the planet ?	所以 , 我想請各位思考的是:這些點代表著你基因組的個別基礎 , 但它們和整個星球的基因組有何關聯 ?
so i just recently had to buy life insurance .	所以最近我只需要買生命保險 。
and i was required to answer: a . i have never had a genetic test , b . i've had one , here you go , and c . i've had one and i'm not telling .	我被要求回答:a 。 我從來沒有過基因測驗 , b 。 我有一個 , 在這裡 , 你去 , c , 我有一個 , 我沒有說 。
thankfully , i was able to answer a , and i say that honestly in case my life insurance agent is listening .	謝天謝地 , 我能回答a , 我說 , 說真的 , 要是我的保險經紀人正在傾聽 。
but what would have happened if i had said c ?	但是如果我說c , 會發生什麼事呢 ?
consumer applications for genomics , they will flourish .	消費者應用在基因組學上 , 他們會蓬勃發展 。
do you want to see whether you're genetically compatible with your girlfriend ? sure .	你想看看你是否和你的女朋友相容 ?
dna sequencing on your iphone ? there's an app for that .	dna定序在你的iphone上 ? 有一個應用程式 。
personalized genomic massage anyone ?	任何人是個人化的基因量 ?
there's already a lab today that tests for allele 334 of the avpr1 gene , the socalled cheating gene .	現今已經有一個實驗室 , 測試了334個avpr1基因 , 所謂的 「 作弊基因 」 。
so anybody who's here today with your significant other , just turn over to them and swab their mouth , send it to the lab and you'll know for sure .	任何今天來到這裡的人 , 都跟著你的巨人 , 轉向他們 , 將他們的嘴巴轉向實驗室 , 然後你肯定知道 。
do you really want to elect a president whose genome suggests cardiomyopathy ?	你真的想選個總統 , 他的基因建議會心臟病發作嗎 ?
now think of it , it's 2016 and the leading candidate releases not only her four years of back tax returns , but also her personal genome .	現在 , 想想看 , 2016年 , 最頂尖的候選人不僅發佈了她的四年稅收 , 還有她的個人基因組 。
and it looks really good .	看起來很不錯 。
and then she challenges all of her competitors to do the same .	接著 , 她挑戰所有她的競爭者 , 來做同樣的事 。
do you think that's not going to happen ?	你覺得這不會發生嗎 ?
do you think it would have helped john mccain ?	你覺得這會幫助約翰麥肯嗎 ?
how many people in the audience have the last name resnick like me ? raise your hand .	觀眾中有多少人跟我一樣有最後一個名字 ? 請舉手 。
typically , there's one or two .	一般來說 , 有1或2 。
so my father's father was one of 10 resnick brothers .	我父親是十位雷斯尼克兄弟之一 。
they all hated each other .	他們都討厭彼此 。
and they all moved to different parts of the planet .	他們都搬到地球的不同地方 。
so it's likely that i'm related to every resnick that i ever meet , but i don't know .	所以 , 我很可能和我見過的所有resnick有關 , 但我不知道 。
but imagine if my genome were deidentified , sitting in software , and a third cousin's genome was also sitting there , and there was software that could compare these two and make these associations .	但想像一下 , 如果我的基因被拘留 , 坐在軟體中 , 第三個表兄的基因體也坐在那兒 , 有一個軟體可以比較這兩者 , 製造出這些聯結 。
not hard to imagine . my company has software that does this right now .	不難想像 , 我的公司有軟體 , 可以做到這一點 。
and so imagine one more thing: that that software is able to ask both parties for mutual consents , " would you be willing to meet your third cousin ? "	所以 , 想像一下 , 那個軟體能要求兩方互相同意 , 「 你願意見你的第三個表兄弟嗎 ? 」
and if we both say yes , voila ! welcome to chromosomally linkedin .	如果我們都說是的 , voila ! 歡迎來到染色體的鏈環 。
now this is probably a good thing , right ?	這可能是件好事 , 對吧 ?
you have bigger clan gatherings and so on .	你有更大的黑猩猩聚集等等 。
but maybe it's a bad thing as well .	但也可能是件壞事 。
how many fathers in the room ? raise your hands .	房間裡有多少父親 ? 請舉手 。
okay , so experts think that one to three percent of you are not actually the father of your child .	好的 , 專家認為你們當中有1%到3%其實不是你孩子的父親 。
look these genomes , these 23 chromosomes , they don't in any way represent the quality of our relationships or the nature of our society at least not yet .	看看這些基因組 , 23個染色體 , 它們不以任何方式呈現我們的關係品質 , 或我們社會的本質 , 至少還沒有 。
and like any new technology , it's really in humanity's hands to wield it for the betterment of mankind , or not .	和任何新技術一樣 , 它是人類的手 , 用來讓人類更好 , 或更好 。
and so i urge you all to wake up and to tune in and to influence the genomic revolution that's happening all around you .	所以 , 我鼓勵大家醒來 , 調整和影響你周遭發生的基因革命 。
daniel kraft demos his marrow miner a new device that quickly harvests lifesaving bone marrow with minimal pain to the donor . he emphasizes that the adult stem cells found in bone marrow can be used to treat many terminal conditions , from parkinson's to heart disease .	丹尼爾•克拉夫將他的骨髓採集一個新的裝置 , 快速收集了救命的骨髓 , 和捐贈者的最小痛苦 。 他強調的是 , 骨髓中成人的幹細胞能被用來治療許多終極條件 , 從帕金森氏症到心臟病 。
biology , biotech , health , health care , medicine , science , technology	生物、生物、生物科技、健康照護、藥物、科學、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、
daniel kraft invents a better way to harvest bone marrow	丹尼爾克拉夫發明更好的方式來收集骨髓骨髓的骨髓 。
so i am a pediatric cancer doctor and stemcell researcher at stanford university where my clinical focus has been bone marrow transplantation .	我是史丹佛大學的小兒科醫師和幹細胞研究員 , 我的臨床焦點是骨髓移植 。
now , inspired by jill bolte taylor last year , i didn't bring a human brain , but i did bring a liter of bone marrow .	去年jillboltetaylor的靈感 , 我沒有帶一個人腦 , 但我確實帶了一公升的骨髓 。
and bone marrow is actually what we use to save the lives of tens of thousands of patients , most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphoma and some other diseases .	而骨髓其實是我們用來拯救數萬名病人的生命 , 大部分患有先進的惡性腫瘤 , 例如白血病、淋巴瘤和一些其他疾病 。
so , a few years ago , i'm doing my transplant fellowship at stanford .	所以 , 幾年前 , 我在史丹佛做移植研究 。
i'm in the operating room . we have bob here , who is a volunteer donor .	我在手術室 , 我們這裡有鮑勃 , 他是自願捐贈者 。
we're sending his marrow across the country to save the life of a child with leukemia .	我們把他的骨髓送到全國 , 以拯救白血病孩童的生命 。
so actually how do we harvest this bone marrow ?	所以 , 我們要如何收集這些骨髓 ?
well we have a whole o . r . team , general anesthesia , nurses , and another doctor across from me .	嗯 , 我們有一整個o.r.團隊 , 麻醉 , 護士 , 還有另一位醫生在我身邊 。
bob's on the table , and we take this sort of small needle , you know , not too big .	鮑勃站在桌子上 , 我們把這個小針 , 你知道的 , 不太大 。
and the way we do this is we basically place this through the soft tissue , and kind of punch it into the hard bone , into the tuchus that's a technical term and aspirate about 10 mls of bone marrow out , each time , with a syringe .	我們做這件事的方式基本上就是把這個放到軟組織裡 , 把它打進硬骨頭 , 進入塔丘 , 每次用針筒 , 用針筒打開大約十個骨髓 。
and hand it off to the nurse . she squirts it into a tin .	然後把它交給護士 , 她將它放進一個小小的房子裡 。
hands it back to me . and we do that again and again .	把它交給我 。 我們一而再再而三地這樣做 。
about 200 times usually .	通常是兩百次 。
and by the end of this my arm is sore , i've got a callus on my hand , let alone bob , whose rear end looks something more like this , like swiss cheese .	最後 , 我的手臂是如此 , 我手上有一通電話 , 更別說鮑勃 , 他的耳朵看起來像這樣 , 像是瑞士起士 。
so i'm thinking , you know , this procedure hasn't changed in about 40 years .	我在想 , 你知道的 , 這個手術在40年內還沒有改變 。
and there is probably a better way to do this .	可能還有更好的方法來做這件事 。
so i thought of a minimally invasive approach , and a new device that we call the marrow miner .	所以我想到一個最小的入侵方式 , 一個新的裝置我們稱之為 「 骨髓礦工 」 。
and the marrow miner , the way it works is shown here .	而骨髓礦工 , 它的運作方式是在這裡展示的 。
our standard seethrough patient .	我們的標準種子病人 。
instead of entering the bone dozens of times , we enter just once , into the front of the hip or the back of the hip .	與其進入骨頭的數十次 , 我們就只是進入了一遍 , 進入髖骨的前面或髖部的後面 。
and we have a flexible , powered catheter with a special wire loop tip that stays inside the crunchy part of the marrow and follows the contours of the hip , as it moves around .	我們有彈性、發電的導管 , 帶著特殊的電線循環 , 留在骨髓內 , 跟著臀部的旋轉 。
so it enables you to very rapidly aspirate , or suck out , rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole .	所以它能讓你非常快速地吸引人 , 或者說吸了 , 富有的骨髓很快地穿過一個洞 。
we can do multiple passes through that same entry .	我們可以通過相同的入口 。
and , so , very quickly , bob can just get one puncture , local anesthesia , and do this harvest as an outpatient .	所以 , 很快地 , 鮑勃只能得到一個特點 , 當地的麻醉劑 , 把這個做成一個門診 。
so i did a few prototypes . i got a small little grant at stanford .	所以我做了幾個原型 , 我在史丹佛拿到一個小小的格子 。
and played around with this a little bit .	再多玩一點 。
and our team members developed this technology .	我們的團隊成員開發了這項技術 。
and eventually we got two large animals , and pig studies .	最後我們有兩個大型動物和豬研究
and we found , to our surprise , that we not only got bone marrow out , but we got 10 times the stem cell activity in the marrow from the marrow miner , compared to the normal device .	我們發現 , 意外的是 , 我們不只得到骨髓 , 我們還得到了骨髓幹細胞活動的十倍 , 相較於正常的裝置 。
this device was just fda approved in the last year .	這個裝置在去年才被核准 。
here is a live patient . you can see it following the flexible curves around .	這是一名活的病人 。 你可以看到它在周圍的彈性曲線 。
there will be two passes here , in the same patient , from the same hole .	這裡將會有兩個通過 , 同一個病人 , 同一個洞 。
this was done under local anesthesia , as an outpatient .	在麻醉之下 , 這是在當地的麻醉劑 。
and we got , again , about three to six times more stem cells than the standard approach done on the same patient .	同樣的 , 我們得到的幹細胞數量是同一個病人的標準方法的三到六倍 。
so why should you care ? bone marrow is a very rich source of adult stem cells .	你為什麼要關心 ? 骨髓是非常豐富的成人幹細胞來源 。
you all know about embryonic stem cells .	你們都知道胚胎幹細胞 。
they've got great potential but haven't yet entered clinical trials .	他們有很大的潛力 , 但還沒進入臨床試驗 。
adult stem cells are throughout our body , including the bloodforming stem cells in our bone marrow , which we've been using as a form of stemcell therapy for over 40 years .	成體幹細胞在我們的身體裡 , 包括骨髓中血液改造的幹細胞 , 我們用這種幹細胞治療已經超過四十年了 。
in the last decade there's been an explosion of use of bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient's other diseases such as heart disease , vascular disease , orthopedics , tissue engineering , even in neurology to treat parkinson's and diabetes .	過去十年來 , 使用骨髓幹細胞來治療病人其他疾病 , 例如心臟病 , 血管疾病 , 組織工程 , 甚至在神經系統中 , 來治療帕金森氏症和糖尿病 。
we've just come out , we're commercializing , this year , generation 2 . 0 of the marrow miner .	我們剛剛出發 , 我們正在商業化 , 今年 , 兩世世代的骨髓礦工 。
the hope is that this gets more stem cells out , which translates to better outcomes .	希望這能讓更多幹細胞被翻譯成更好的結果 。
it may encourage more people to sign up to be potential livesaving bone marrow donors .	它可能會鼓勵更多人簽名 , 成為可能救命的骨髓捐贈者 。
it may even enable you to bank your own marrow stem cells , when you're younger and healthier , to use in the future should you need it .	甚至可能讓你可以銀行你自己的骨髓幹細胞 , 當你年紀更小、更健康的時候 , 讓你可以在未來使用它 。
and ultimately and here's a picture of our bone marrow transplant survivors , who come together for a reunion each year at stanford .	最終 , 這是我們的骨髓移植倖存者的照片 , 他們每年在史丹佛聚會 。
hopefully this technology will let us have more of these survivors in the future .	希望這項技術能讓我們在未來有更多這些倖存者 。
physicist and surfer garrett lisi presents a controversial new model of the universe that just maybe answers all the big questions . if nothing else , it's the most beautiful 8dimensional model of elementary particles and forces you've ever seen .	物理學家和衝浪者葛雷特•賴西在宇宙中出現了一種爭議性的新模型 , 可能只能回答所有問題 。 如果沒有其他東西 , 它是最美麗的8維的粒子模型 , 強迫你見過 。
physics , science , technology	物理、科學、科技、科技、科技、
garrett lisi on his theory of everything	garretlisi理論上所有東西的理論都是garretlisi 。
whoa , dude . check out those killer equations . sweet .	哇 , 查看那些殺手方程式 。
actually , for the next 18 minutes i'm going to do the best i can to describe the beauty of particle physics without equations .	事實上 , 在接下來的18分鐘裡 , 我要盡我所能地描述在沒有公式的粒子物理的美麗 。
it turns out there's a lot we can learn from coral .	結果發現 , 我們能從珊瑚身上學到很多東西 。
coral is a very beautiful and unusual animal .	珊瑚是非常美麗且不尋常的動物 。
each coral head consists of thousand of individual polyps .	每個珊瑚的頭包含成千上萬個珊瑚蟲 。
these polyps are continually budding and branching into genetically identical neighbors .	這些珊瑚蟲會不斷地在基因上生長和分支 , 成為同一的鄰居 。
if we imagine this to be a hyperintelligent coral , we can single out an individual and ask him a reasonable question .	如果我們想像這是一個超智能的珊瑚 , 我們就能找出一個人 , 並且問他一個合理的問題 。
we can ask how exactly he got to be in this particular location compared to his neighbors if it was just chance , or destiny , or what ?	我們可以問他在這個地點和他的鄰居相比 , 是否只是偶然 , 或命運 , 或什麼 ?
now , after admonishing us for turning the temperature up too high , he would tell us that our question was completely stupid .	把溫度調高得太高之後 , 他會告訴我們 , 我們的問題完全愚蠢 。
these corals can be quite kind of mean , you see , and i have surfing scars to prove that .	你看 , 這些珊瑚是很有意思的 , 你看 , 我有衝浪的疤痕可以證明它 。
but this polyp would continue and tell us that his neighbors were quite clearly identical copies of him .	但這隻珊瑚蟲會繼續告訴我們 , 他的鄰居很明顯是他一模一樣的複製品 。
that he was in all these other locations as well , but experiencing them as separate individuals .	他也處在其它地方 , 但體驗它們和獨立個體是不同的 。
for a coral , branching into different copies is the most natural thing in the world .	對珊瑚而言 , 分枝為不同的複製品是世界上最自然的東西 。
unlike us , a hyperintelligent coral would be uniquely prepared to understand quantum mechanics .	不像我們 , 超級智慧的珊瑚 , 會特別準備好要了解量子力學 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics very accurately describes how our universe works .	量子力學的數學非常準確地描述我們的宇宙是如何運作的 。
and it tells us our reality is continually branching into different possibilities , just like a coral .	它告訴我們 , 我們的現實是不斷分裂成不同的可能性 , 就像珊瑚一樣 。
it's a weird thing for us humans to wrap our minds around , since we only ever get to experience one possibility .	這對我們人類來說是一件奇怪的事 , 因為我們只能體驗一個可能性 。
this quantum weirdness was first described by erwin schrödinger and his cat .	這種量子奇怪之處在於erwinschrder和他的貓
the cat likes this version better .	貓比較喜歡這個版本 。
in this setup , schrödinger is in a box with a radioactive sample that , by the laws of quantum mechanics , branches into a state in which it is radiated and a state in which it is not .	在這個組合中 , 薛丁格在一個放射性樣本中 , 通過量子力學的定律 , 分支進入一個狀態 , 一個不存在的狀態 。
in the branch in which the sample radiates , it sets off a trigger that releases poison and schrödinger is dead .	在採集樣本的分支中 , 它啟動了釋放毒素和薛丁格死去的部位 。
but in the other branch of reality , he remains alive .	但在現實的另一個層面上 , 他仍然活著 。
these realities are experienced separately by each individual .	這些真相是被不同的個體分開的 。
as far as either can tell , the other one doesn't exist .	據說兩者之間 , 另一人並不存在 。
this seems weird to us , because each of us only experiences an individual existence , and we don't get to see other branches .	這對我們來說是很奇怪的 , 因為我們每一個人都只經歷一個人的存在 , 而我們看不到其他的分支 。
it's as if each of us , like schrödinger here , are a kind of coral branching into different possibilities .	這就好像我們每一個人 , 如薛丁格在這裡 , 有點像珊瑚一樣 , 變成不同的可能性 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics tells us this is how the world works at tiny scales .	量子力學的數學告訴我們 , 世界的運作方式很小 。
it can be summed up in a single sentence: everything that can happen , does .	它可以用單一句話來做總結:所有可能發生的事情 , 確實 。
but this does not mean everything happens .	但這並不表示一切都會發生 。
the rest of physics is about describing what can happen and what can't .	其他的物理則是描述可能發生什麼事 , 以及什麼是不可能發生的 。
what physics tells us is that everything comes down to geometry and the interactions of elementary particles .	物理學告訴我們 , 一切都歸功於幾何和基本粒子的互動 。
and things can happen only if these interactions are perfectly balanced .	只有這些互動是完全平衡的 。
now i'll go ahead and describe how we know about these particles , what they are and how this balance works .	現在我來說明我們對這些粒子的了解 , 它們是什麼 , 以及平衡如何運作 。
in this machine , a beam of protons and antiprotons are accelerated to near the speed of light and brought together in a collision , producing a burst of pure energy .	在這個機器中 , 一束質子和反質子會加速接近光速的速度 , 並在撞擊中聚集在一起 , 產生出一股純能量 。
this energy is immediately converted into a spray of subatomic particles , with detectors and computers used to figure out their properties .	這種能量立刻被轉換成亞原子粒子的噴射 , 用探測器和電腦來找出它們的特性 。
this enormous machine the large hadron collider at cern in geneva has a circumference of 17 miles and , when it's operating , draws five times as much power as the city of monterey .	這台巨大的機器 , 位於日內瓦的cern大型強子對撞機有十七英里的圍繞 , 當它在運作時 , 比蒙特雷市的城市還要多出五倍 。
we can't predict specifically what particles will be produced in any individual collision .	我們無法準確預測哪些粒子會在任何個別碰撞中產生 。
quantum mechanics tells us all possibilities are realized .	量子力學告訴我們所有可能性都在實現 。
but physics does tell us what particles can be produced .	但物理的確能告訴我們粒子能產生什麼 。
these particles must have just as much mass and energy as is carried in by the proton and antiproton .	這些粒子必須有那麼多質量和能量 , 就像質子和反質子所攜帶的一樣 。
any particles more massive than this energy limit aren't produced , and remain invisible to us .	任何比這個能量有更大的粒子 , 都不會產生出來 , 且對我們來說仍然是看不見的 。
this is why this new particle accelerator is so exciting .	這就是為什麼這個新的粒子加速器如此令人興奮 。
it's going to push this energy limit seven times beyond what's ever been done before , so we're going to get to see some new particles very soon .	它會推動這個能量限制前七倍之多 , 超越之前所做過的事 , 所以我們很快就會看到一些新的粒子 。
but before talking about what we might see , let me describe the particles we already know of .	但在談我們可能看到的之前 , 讓我來描述一下我們已經知道的粒子 。
there's a whole zoo of subatomic particles .	有一大堆亞原子粒子的動物 。
most of us are familiar with electrons .	我們大多數人都熟悉電子 。
a lot of people in this room make a good living pushing them around .	在這間房間裡的許多人 , 讓他們生活良好 。
but the electron also has a neutral partner called the neutrino , with no electric charge and a very tiny mass .	但電子還有一個中立的夥伴 , 叫做中子 , 沒有電荷和非常小的質量 。
in contrast , the upanddown quarks have very large masses , and combine in threes to make the protons and neutrons inside atoms .	相較之下 , 上面的夸克有非常大的質量 , 三分之一的結合 , 來製造原子內的質子和中子 。
all of these matter particles come in left and righthanded varieties , and have antiparticle partners that carry opposite charges .	所有這些粒子都在左邊 , 右邊的多樣性 , 都有反粒子的伴侶帶著相反的載荷 。
these familiar particles also have less familiar second and third generations , which have the same charges as the first but have much higher masses .	這些熟悉的粒子也有較少熟悉的第二代和第三代 , 相同的載荷和第一代相同 , 但質量較高 。
these matter particles all interact with the various force particles .	這些粒子都與各種力粒子互動 。
the electromagnetic force interacts with electrically charged matter via particles called photons .	電磁力會透過光子所引電的粒子相互作用 。
there is also a very weak force called , rather unimaginatively , the weak force , that interacts only with lefthanded matter .	還有一種很弱的力量 , 很不想像力 , 很弱的力量 , 只和左撇子物質產生作用 。
the strong force acts between quarks which carry a different kind of charge , called color charge , and come in three different varieties: red , green and blue .	夸克之間有著不同的載荷 , 叫做色荷 , 三種不同種類的強力作用:紅、綠和藍 。
you can blame murray gellmann for these names they're his fault .	你可以責怪murraygellmann , 他們是他的錯 。
finally , there's the force of gravity , which interacts with matter via its mass and spin .	最後 , 重力會透過質量和旋轉來互動 。
the most important thing to understand here is that there's a different kind of charge associated with each of these forces .	最重要的是 , 每一股力量都有不同的載荷 。
these four different forces interact with matter according to the corresponding charges that each particle has .	這四種不同的力與物質相互作用 , 根據每個粒子都有相互應應變的載荷 。
a particle that hasn't been seen yet , but we're pretty sure exists , is the higgs particle , which gives masses to all these other particles .	一個尚未見過的粒子 , 但我們很確定存在 , 就是希格斯粒子 , 給予所有其他粒子的質量 。
the main purpose of the large hadron collider is to see this higgs particle , and we're almost certain it will .	大型強子對撞機的主要目的是要看到這個希格斯粒子 , 我們幾乎肯定它會發生 。
but the greatest mystery is what else we might see .	但最偉大的謎題是我們還能看到的 。
and i'm going to show you one beautiful possibility towards the end of this talk .	接下來我要向你們展示一個美好的可能性 , 來到這場演講的尾聲 。
now , if we count up all these different particles using their various spins and charges , there are 226 .	如果我們用不同的旋轉和載荷來計算這些不同的粒子 , 就會有226個 。
that's a lot of particles to keep track of .	那是很多粒子用來追蹤的 。
and it seems strange that nature would have so many elementary particles .	大自然有這麼多元素 , 似乎很奇怪 。
but if we plot them out according to their charges , some beautiful patterns emerge .	但如果我們根據他們的載荷來繪製它們 , 有些美麗的圖案會浮現出來 。
the most familiar charge is electric charge .	最熟悉的載荷是電荷 。
electrons have an electric charge , a negative one , and quarks have electric charges in thirds .	電子有電荷 , 負電 , 夸克有三分之一的電荷 。
so when two up quarks and a down quark are combined to make a proton , it has a total electric charge of plus one .	所以 , 當兩個夸克和一個夸克組合成一個質子時 , 它總有一電荷 。
these particles also have antiparticles , which have opposite charges .	這些粒子也有反粒子 , 有相反的載荷 。
now , it turns out the electric charge is actually a combination of two other charges: hypercharge and weak charge .	結果發現電荷是另外兩個載荷的組合:超載荷和弱荷 。
if we spread out the hypercharge and weak charge and plot the charges of particles in this twodimensional charge space , the electric charge is where these particles sit along the vertical direction .	如果我們把超級充電和弱荷散開 , 在這二度載荷空間中繪製出粒子的載荷 , 電荷就是這些粒子在垂直方向的位置 。
the electromagnetic and weak forces interact with matter according to their hypercharge and weak charge , which make this pattern .	電磁力和弱力會根據他們的超充荷和弱荷來互動 , 產生出這種模式 。
this is called the unified electroweak model , and it was put together back in 1967 .	這就是所謂的 「 電子發射模型 」 , 它在1967年被組合起來 。
the reason most of us are only familiar with electric charge and not both of these is because of the higgs particle .	我們大多數人只熟悉電荷 , 而不是兩者都是因為希格斯粒子 。
the higgs , over here on the left , has a large mass and breaks the symmetry of this electroweak pattern .	左邊這邊的希格斯有很大的質量 , 打破這個電路模式的對稱性 。
it makes the weak force very weak by giving the weak particles a large mass .	它讓弱力變弱 , 讓弱粒子的質量變大 。
since this massive higgs sits along the horizontal direction in this diagram , the photons of electromagnetism remain massless and interact with electric charge along the vertical direction in this charge space .	由於這個巨大的希格斯位於水平方向 , 電磁共振造影的光子仍然沒有質量 , 在這個載荷空間中與電荷的垂直方向產生作用 。
so the electromagnetic and weak forces are described by this pattern of particle charges in twodimensional space .	所以電磁力和弱力被這種粒子的模式所描述 , 在二維空間中 , 粒子載荷 。
we can include the strong force by spreading out its two charge directions and plotting the charges of the force particles in quarks along these directions .	我們能將強力推廣它的兩個載荷方向 , 並在這些方向上繪製出石英粒子的載荷 。
the charges of all known particles can be plotted in a fourdimensional charge space , and projected down to two dimensions like this so we can see them .	所有已知的粒子的載荷可以在四度載荷空間中繪製 , 投射到像這樣的二維空間 , 這樣我們就能看見它們 。
whenever particles interact , nature keeps things in a perfect balance along all four of these charge directions .	每當粒子相互作用 , 大自然就會保持完美的平衡 , 和這四個載荷方向的平衡 。
if a particle and an antiparticle collide , it creates a burst of energy and a total charge of zero in all four charge directions .	如果粒子和抗粒子碰撞 , 它會造成能量的爆炸 , 以及四個載荷方向的總載荷 。
at this point , anything can be created as long as it has the same energy and maintains a total charge of zero .	在這一刻 , 任何東西都可以被創造出來 , 只要它有相同的能量 , 維持零的總載荷 。
for example , this weak force particle and its antiparticle can be created in a collision .	例如 , 這種弱力粒子和它的反粒子可以在碰撞中產生 。
in further interactions , the charges must always balance .	在更進一步的互動中 , 指控總是平衡 。
one of the weak particles could decay into an electron and an antineutrino , and these three still add to zero total charge .	其中一個微小的粒子可以腐化成電子和一顆中子 , 這三個粒子依然加上0的總載荷 。
nature always keeps a perfect balance .	大自然總是保持完美的平衡 。
so these patterns of charges are not just pretty .	所以這些載荷的模式並不漂亮 。
they tell us what interactions are allowed to happen .	他們告訴我們 , 哪些互動是可以實現的 。
and we can rotate this charge space in four dimensions to get a better look at the strong interaction , which has this nice hexagonal symmetry .	我們可以把這個載荷空間轉換成四維空間 , 來更好地觀察強烈的相互作用 , 這種對稱性很好 。
in a strong interaction , a strong force particle , such as this one , interacts with a colored quark , such as this green one , to give a quark with a different color charge this red one .	在強烈的互動中 , 強力粒子 , 例如這一個 , 與有色的夸克互動 , 比如這個綠色夸克 , 用不同顏色的夸克給這個紅色 。
and strong interactions are happening millions of times each second in every atom of our bodies , holding the atomic nuclei together .	強烈的互動每秒鐘會發生數百萬次 , 以我們身體的每個原子組成 , 將原子核結合在一起 。
but these four charges corresponding to three forces are not the end of the story .	但這四個載荷對應到三種力量 , 不是故事的結尾 。
we can also include two more charges corresponding to the gravitational force .	我們還可以把兩個載荷和重力相對應 。
when we include these , each matter particle has two different spin charges , spinup and spindown .	當我們把這些粒子納入 , 每個粒子都有兩個不同的旋轉指控、旋轉和旋轉 。
so they all split , and give a nice pattern in sixdimensional charge space .	所以它們都分開 , 用六維載荷空間給一個好的圖案 。
we can rotate this pattern in six dimensions , and see that it's quite pretty .	我們可以在六維空間中旋轉這個模式 , 看到它是很漂亮的 。
right now , this pattern matches our best current knowledge of how nature is built at the tiny scales of these elementary particles .	目前 , 這個模式符合我們目前所知大自然如何在微小的微小粒子的結構 。
this is what we know for certain .	這是我們所知的 。
some of these particles are at the very limit of what we've been able to reach with experiments .	有些粒子是我們能用實驗來達到的極限 。
from this pattern , we already know the particle physics of these tiny scales . the way the universe works with these tiny scales is very beautiful .	從這個模式 , 我們已經知道這些微小的粒子物理學 。 宇宙和這些微小的尺度是非常漂亮的 。
but now i'm going to discuss some new and old ideas about things we don't know yet .	但現在我要來談談一些我們還不知道的新點子 。
we want to expand this pattern using mathematics alone , and see if we can get our hands on the whole enchilada .	我們想單靠數學來拓展這個模式 , 看看我們能否掌握整個enchilada 。
we want to find all the particles and forces that make a complete picture of our universe .	我們想找到所有能創造出完整宇宙的粒子和力量 。
and we want to use this picture to predict new particles that we'll see when experiments reach higher energies .	我們想用這張照片來預測新的粒子 , 我們會看到實驗能達到更高的能量 。
so there's an old idea in particle physics that this known pattern of charges , which is not very symmetric , could emerge from a more perfect pattern that gets broken similar to how the higgs particle breaks the electroweak pattern to give electromagnetism .	粒子物理學有一個古老的想法 , 這種已知的載荷模式 , 不對稱 , 可以從一個更完美的模式中產生出來 , 和希格斯粒子打破電路模式 , 來產生電磁力 。
in order to do this , we need to introduce new forces with new charge directions .	為了做到這一點 , 我們需要引進新的載荷方向 。
when we introduce a new direction , we get to guess what charges the particles have along this direction , and then we can rotate it in with the others .	當我們引進一個新的方向時 , 我們會猜測粒子沿著這個方向負責什麼 , 然後我們可以把它旋轉 。
if we guess wisely , we can construct the standard charges in six charge dimensions as a broken symmetry of this more perfect pattern in seven charge dimensions .	如果我們明智地猜測 , 我們就能在六個載荷空間中建構出標準載荷的對稱性 , 這是七個載荷空間中更完美的圖案 。
this particular choice corresponds to a grand unified theory introduced by pati and salam in 1973 .	在1973年 , 帕蒂和薩拉姆所提出的這個特殊選擇 。
when we look at this new unified pattern , we can see a couple of gaps where particles seem to be missing .	當我們觀察這個新的統一模式時 , 我們可以看到一些缺口 , 粒子似乎是缺少的 。
this is the way theories of unification work .	這是統一理論的運作方式 。
a physicist looks for larger , more symmetric patterns that include the established pattern as a subset .	物理學家尋找更大、更對稱的圖案 , 包含了其特定的圖案 , 以其為單位 。
the larger pattern allows us to predict the existence of particles that have never been seen .	更大的模式讓我們能夠預測那些從未見過的粒子存在 。
this unification model predicts the existence of these two new force particles , which should act a lot like the weak force , only weaker .	這個統一模型預測了這兩個新粒子的存在 , 它應該像弱力一樣 , 只是弱力 。
now we can rotate this set of charges in seven dimensions and consider an odd fact about the matter particles: the second and third generations of matter have exactly the same charges in sixdimensional charge space as the first generation .	我們現在可以在七維空間中旋轉這個載荷 , 思考一個奇怪的事實:第二代和第三代物質在六維載荷空間中有完全相同的載荷 。
these particles are not uniquely identified by their six charges .	這些粒子並非獨一無二的被六個載荷所辨識出來 。
they sit on top of one another in the standard charge space .	他們坐在標準載荷空間的頂端 。
however , if we work in eightdimensional charge space , then we can assign unique new charges to each particle .	然而 , 如果我們在八度載荷空間中工作 , 我們就能將不同的新載荷給每顆粒子 。
then we can spin these in eight dimensions , and see what the whole pattern looks like .	然後我們可以在八度空間中轉動 , 看看整個圖案是什麼樣子 。
here we can see the second and third generations of matter now related to the first generation by a symmetry called " triality . "	在這裡 , 我們可以看到第二和第三代物質的相關性 , 由所謂的 「 審判 」 的對稱性 。
this particular pattern of charges in eight dimensions is actually part of the most beautiful geometric structure in mathematics .	這種八維的載荷模式實際上是數學中最美麗的幾何結構之一 。
it's a pattern of the largest exceptional lie group , e8 .	它是最大例外謊言團體的模式e8 。
this lie group is a smooth , curved shape with 248 dimensions .	這個謊言團體是平滑的 , 曲線形狀有248維度 。
each point in this pattern corresponds to a symmetry of this very complex and beautiful shape .	在這個圖案中的每個點 , 都會對應到這個非常複雜且美麗的形狀 。
one small part of this e8 shape can be used to describe the curved spacetime of einstein's general relativity , explaining gravity .	這個e8形狀的一小部分可以用來描述愛因斯坦廣義相對論的曲線時空 , 解釋重力 。
together with quantum mechanics , the geometry of this shape could describe everything about how the universe works at the tiniest scales .	用量子力學 , 形狀的幾何學可以描述宇宙是如何在最小的尺度中運作的 。
the pattern of this shape living in eightdimensional charge space is exquisitely beautiful , and it summarizes thousands of possible interactions between these elementary particles , each of which is just a facet of this complicated shape .	在八度載荷空間中 , 這種形狀的圖案是非常美麗的 , 它總結了數千種可能的相互作用 , 每一個都只是這複雜的形狀的一面 。
as we spin it , we can see many of the other intricate patterns contained in this one .	隨著我們旋轉 , 我們可以看到許多其它複雜的圖案在這個圖案中存在著 。
and with a particular rotation , we can look down through this pattern in eight dimensions along a symmetry axis and see all the particles at once .	有了特定的旋轉 , 我們就可以在八度空間中觀察這個圖案 , 沿著對稱軸沿著對稱軸沿著一個對稱軸 , 同時看到所有的粒子 。
it's a very beautiful object , and as with any unification , we can see some holes where new particles are required by this pattern .	它是一個非常美麗的物體 , 如同任何統一 , 我們可以看到一些洞 , 在那裡 , 新的粒子被這個模式所需要 。
there are 20 gaps where new particles should be , two of which have been filled by the patisalam particles .	有20個缺口 , 新的粒子應該是 , 其中兩個被帕塔瓦粒子填滿 。
from their location in this pattern , we know that these new particles should be scalar fields like the higgs particle , but have color charge and interact with the strong force .	從這個模式的位置 , 我們知道這些新的粒子應該會像希格斯粒子一樣大 , 但有顏色載荷 , 和強力互動 。
filling in these new particles completes this pattern , giving us the full e8 .	填入這些新的粒子 , 完成了這個模式 , 給我們全e8 。
this e8 pattern has very deep mathematical roots .	這個e8圖案有很深的數學根源 。
it's considered by many to be the most beautiful structure in mathematics .	它被許多人認為是數學中最美麗的結構 。
it's a fantastic prospect that this object of great mathematical beauty could describe the truth of particle interactions at the smallest scales imaginable .	這是個很棒的前景 , 這個偉大的數學美的物體可以描述在最小的尺度中粒子互動的真相 。
and this idea that nature is described by mathematics is not at all new .	這個想法是 , 大自然被數學所描述的 , 完全不是新的 。
in 1623 , galileo wrote this: " nature's grand book , which stands continually open to our gaze , is written in the language of mathematics .	在1623年 , 伽利略寫了這句話: 「 大自然的偉大書籍 , 持續地對我們的觀測敞開眼界 , 用數學的語言寫信 。
its characters are triangles , circles and other geometrical figures , without which it is humanly impossible to understand a single word of it ; without these , one is wandering around in a dark labyrinth . "	它的角色是三角形、圓形和其他幾何圖形 , 沒有任何一個字 , 可以理解它是不可能的 ; 沒有這些 , 一個在黑暗的迷宮中四處遊蕩 。 」
i believe this to be true , and i've tried to follow galileo's guidance in describing the mathematics of particle physics using only triangles , circles and other geometrical figures .	我相信這是真的 , 我試著遵循伽利略的指導 , 描述粒子物理的數學 , 只用三角形、圓形和其他幾何數字 。
of course , when other physicists and i actually work on this stuff , the mathematics can resemble a dark labyrinth .	當然 , 當我和其他物理學家一起研究這些東西時 , 數學可以像黑暗的迷宮一樣 。
but it's reassuring that at the heart of this mathematics is pure , beautiful geometry .	但 , 值得一提的是 , 數學的核心是純粹、美麗的幾何學 。
joined with quantum mechanics , this mathematics describes our universe as a growing e8 coral , with particles interacting at every location in all possible ways according to a beautiful pattern .	與量子力學結合 , 這個數學將我們的宇宙描述為一個不斷成長的e8珊瑚 , 粒子以各種可能的方式來互動 。
and as more of the pattern comes into view using new machines like the large hadron collider , we may be able to see whether nature uses this e8 pattern or a different one .	隨著更多的圖案出現 , 使用像大型強子對撞機的新機器 , 我們可能會看到大自然使用這個e8的圖案或另一個圖案 。
this process of discovery is a wonderful adventure to be involved in .	這個發現的過程是很棒的冒險旅程 。
if the lhc finds particles that fit this e8 pattern , that will be very , very cool .	如果lhc找到符合e8圖案的粒子 , 那就很酷了 。
if the lhc finds new particles , but they don't fit this pattern well , that will be very interesting , but bad for this e8 theory .	如果lhc能找到新的粒子 , 但它們不符合這個模式 , 那會很有趣 , 但對e8理論不好 。
and , of course , bad for me personally .	當然 , 對我來說是不好的 。
now how bad would that be ?	那會有多糟 ?
well , pretty bad .	嗯 , 相當糟糕 。
but predicting how nature works is a very risky game .	但預測大自然是如何運作的 。
this theory and others like it are long shots .	這個理論和其他類似的理論是長時間拍攝 。
one does a lot of hard work knowing that most of these ideas probably won't end up being true about nature .	一個人做了很多辛苦的工作 , 知道大部分這些想法可能不會成為大自然的真相 。
that's what doing theoretical physics is like: there are a lot of wipeouts .	理論物理就是這樣運作的:有很多的擦力 。
in this regard , new physics theories are a lot like startup companies .	在這方面 , 新的物理理論就像新創公司一樣 。
as with any large investment , it can be emotionally difficult to abandon a line of research when it isn't working out .	就像任何大型的投資一樣 , 在沒有成功的情況下 , 要放棄一系列的研究 。
but in science , if something isn't working , you have to toss it out and try something else .	但在科學上 , 如果有東西行不通 , 你就得要把它弄出來 , 嘗試其他東西 。
now , the only way to maintain sanity and achieve happiness in the midst of this uncertainty is to keep balance and perspective in life .	唯一能維持公平和獲得幸福的方法 , 就是保持生活的平衡和觀點 。
i've tried the best i can to live a balanced life .	我嘗試過我能活得平衡的生活 。
i try to balance my life equally between physics , love and surfing my own three charge directions .	我試著平衡我的生活 , 平衡物理、愛、衝浪我自己的三個載荷方向 。
this way , even if the physics i work on comes to nothing , i still know i've lived a good life .	這樣一來 , 就算我所研究的物理都沒有 , 我仍然知道我過著美好的生活 。
and i try to live in beautiful places .	我試著生活在美麗的地方 。
for most of the past ten years i've lived on the island of maui , a very beautiful place .	過去十年來 , 我在馬伊島住的大部分地方 , 一個非常美麗的地方 。
now it's one of the greatest mysteries in the universe to my parents how i managed to survive all that time without engaging in anything resembling fulltime employment .	這是我父母在宇宙中最偉大的謎題之一 , 我是如何在沒有全職員工的情況下存活下來的 。
i'm going to let you in on that secret .	接下來我要告訴你們這個秘密 。
this was a view from my home office on maui .	這是我在maui家的辦公室的景象 。
and you may have noticed that these beautiful views are similar , but in slightly different places .	你可能注意到這些美麗的觀點相似 , 但在不同的地方 。
that's because this used to be my home and office on maui .	那是因為這曾經是我在毛伊島的家和辦公室 。
i've chosen a very unusual life .	我選擇了一件非常不尋常的人生 。
but not worrying about rent allowed me to spend my time doing what i love .	但不用擔心房租 , 讓我花時間做我愛的事 。
living a nomadic existence has been hard at times , but it's allowed me to live in beautiful places and keep a balance in my life that i've been happy with .	生活在一個遊牧的時代是很艱辛的 , 但它讓我生活在美麗的地方 , 保持平衡 , 在我的生活中 , 我一直很高興 。
it allows me to spend a lot of my time hanging out with hyperintelligent coral .	它讓我花很多時間和超級智慧的珊瑚在一起 。
but i also greatly enjoy the company of hyperintelligent people .	但我也很享受超級聰明的人的公司 。
so i'm very happy to have been invited here to ted .	我很高興能被邀請來ted 。
chris anderson: i probably understood two percent of that , but i still absolutely loved it . so i'm going to sound dumb .	克里斯•安德森:我大概明白其中的百分之二 , 但我仍然很愛它 。 所以我要聽起來很蠢 。
your theory of everything garrett lisi: i'm used to coral .	你的理論是garrettlisi:我習慣珊瑚 。
ca: that's right . the reason it's got a few people at least excited is because , if you're right , it brings gravity and quantum theory together .	克里斯:沒錯 , 讓少數人感到興奮的原因是 , 如果你是對的 , 它會把重力和量子理論結合在一起 。
so are you saying that we should think of the universe , at its heart that the smallest things that there are , are somehow an e8 object of possibility ?	所以 , 你是說 , 我們應該想一想宇宙 , 心中有最小的東西 , 像是e8物體的可能性 ?
i mean , is there a scale to it , at the smallest scale , or . . . ?	我的意思是 , 在最小的尺度 , 還是...
gl: well , right now the pattern i showed you that corresponds to what we know about elementary particle physics that already corresponds to a very beautiful shape .	格林:嗯 , 現在我給你們看的圖案和我們所知的基本粒子物理學有關 , 已經對應到一個非常美麗的形狀 。
and that's the one that i said we knew for certain .	那就是我說我們知道的 。
and that shape has remarkable similarities and the way it fits into this e8 pattern could be the rest of the picture .	這種形狀有著驚人的相似性 , 和它融入這個e8圖案的方式 , 可能是圖片的其他部分 。
and these patterns of points that i've shown for you actually represent symmetries of this highdimensional object that would be warping and moving and dancing over the space time that we experience .	我給你們看的這些點 , 其實代表的是這個高維物體的對稱性 , 它會在我們經歷的時空中移動、跳舞和跳舞 。
and that would be what explains all these elementary particles that we see .	這就解釋了我們所看到的所有基本粒子 。
ca: but a string theorist , as i understand it , explains electrons in terms of much smaller strings vibrating i know you don't like string theory vibrating inside it .	克:但弦理論家 , 我了解它 , 用更小的弦震動來解釋電子 , 我知道你不喜歡弦理論在裡面震動 。
how should we think of an electron in relation to e8 ?	我們該如何把電子想成e8 ?
gl: no , it would be one of the symmetries of this e8 shape .	格林:不 , 它是這個e8形狀的一種對稱之一 。
so what's happening is , as the shape is moving over spacetime , it's twisting . and the direction it's twisting as it moves is what particle we see . so it would be ca: the size of the e8 shape , how does that relate to the electron ?	所以 , 當這個形狀在時空中移動時 , 它是扭曲的 。 當它移動時 , 它的方向是扭曲的 。 它會是:e8形狀的大小 , 和電子是如何連結在一起的 ?
i kind of feel like i need that for my picture .	我覺得我需要這張照片 。
is it bigger ? is it smaller ?	更大嗎 ? 更小嗎 ?
gl: well , as far as we know electrons are point particles , so this would be going down to the smallest possible scales .	格林:我們所知的電子是指點粒子 , 所以這將會是最小的可能尺度 。
so the way these things are explained in quantum field theory is , all possibilities are expanding and developing at once .	所以 , 這些東西在量子場理論中解釋的方式是 , 所有可能性都同時擴張和發展 。
and this is why i use the analogy to coral .	這就是為什麼我用比喻珊瑚 。
and in this way , the way that e8 comes in is it will be as a shape that's attached at each point in spacetime .	用這種方式 , e8進來的方式是它的形狀 , 在時空中每一刻都依附在一個形狀 。
and , as i said , the way the shape twists the directional along which way the shape is twisting as it moves over this curved surface is what the elementary particles are , themselves .	如我所說 , 形狀的方向會在曲線的表面上移動時 , 形狀會轉動的方向 , 正是小粒子本身 。
so through quantum field theory , they manifest themselves as points and interact that way .	所以 , 透過量子場理論 , 他們把自己看作點 , 並以這種方式互動 。
i don't know if i'll be able to make this any clearer .	我不知道我能否更明確地做這件事 。
ca: it doesn't really matter .	克里斯:這並不重要 。
it's evoking a kind of sense of wonder , and i certainly want to understand more of this .	它喚起了一種奇妙的感覺 , 我當然也想了解更多 。
but thank you so much for coming . that was absolutely fascinating .	但 , 非常謝謝你來 。 這絕對是非常吸引人的 。
the legendary chimpanzee researcher jane goodall talks about tacare and her other community projects , which help people in booming african towns live sidebyside with threatened animals .	傳奇的黑猩猩研究員傑內.古爾談到坦尚及其它社區計畫 , 協助波普非洲市居住的居民 , 威脅到動物 。
africa , animals , biodiversity , environment , global issues , pollution , primates , science	非洲、動物、生物多樣性、環境、全球議題、污染、靈長類、科學、科學、科學、科學等問題 。
jane goodall helps humans and animals live together	珍古德能協助人類和動物一起生活 。
good afternoon , good evening , whatever .	午安 , 晚安 , 等等 。
we can go , jambo , guten abend , bonsoir , but we can also ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh .	我們能去 , 喔 , 喔 , 喔 , ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 。
that is the call that chimpanzees make before they go to sleep in the evening .	這就是黑猩猩在晚上睡覺前的叫聲 。
you hear it going from one side of the valley to the other , from one group of nests to the next .	你聽到它從山谷的一邊移動到另一邊 , 從一群巢穴到下一邊 。
and i want to pick up with my talk this evening from where zeray left off yesterday .	今天晚上我要跟大家談談 , 是昨天的zeray留下來的地方 。
he was talking about this amazing , threeyearold australopithecine child , selam .	他談到這個驚人、三歲的幼兒 , 塞拉姆 。
and we've also been hearing about the history , the family tree , of mankind through dna genetic profiling .	我們也聽過關於歷史、家庭樹、人類基因改造的歷史 。
and it was a paleontologist , the late louis leakey , who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees .	這是古生物學家 , 最近的路易斯•路易斯•路克 , 他讓我走上了研究黑猩猩的路上 。
and it was pretty extraordinary , way back then .	當時是非常了不起的 。
it's kind of commonplace now , but his argument was because he'd been searching for the fossilized remains of early humans in africa .	現在有點常見 , 但他的論點是 , 因為他一直在尋找非洲早期人類的化石 。
and you can tell an awful lot about what those beings looked like from the fossils , from the shape of the muscle attachments , something about the way they lived from the various artifacts found with them .	你可以看到這些生物的樣子 , 從化石的形狀 , 從肌肉的形狀 , 和它們的生存方式有關 。
but what about how they behaved ? that's what he wanted to know .	但他們如何表現呢 ? 這是他想知道的 。
and of course , behavior doesn't fossilize .	當然 , 行為不會化石 。
he argued and it's now a fairly common theory that if we found behavior patterns similar or the same in our closest living relatives , the great apes , and humans today , then maybe those behaviors were present in the apelike , humanlike ancestor some seven million years ago .	他主張 , 現在是個相當常見的理論 , 如果我們在最接近的物種身上找到類似的行為模式 , 大猩猩 , 和人類身上的行為 , 大約七百萬年前 , 人類的祖先 。
and therefore , perhaps we had brought those characteristics with us from that ancient , ancient past .	因此 , 也許我們已經把這些特性帶到古代 , 古老的過去 。
well , if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution , you very often find people speculating about how early humans may have behaved , based on the behavior of chimpanzees .	嗯 , 假如你去看今天正在處理人類演化的教科書 , 你經常會看到人們在推測早期人類的行為 , 根據黑猩猩的行為 。
they are more like us than any other living creature , and we've heard about that during this ted conference .	它們比我們任何其他生物都更像我們 , 在ted會議中 , 我們已經聽說過了 。
so it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzees are so like us , in certain aspects of their behavior .	所以 , 對我來說 , 對於黑猩猩和我們來說 , 黑猩猩在某些方面是如此相似的 。
every chimpanzee has his or her own personality .	每個黑猩猩都有自己的性格 。
of course , i gave them names . they can live to be 60 years or more , although we think most of them probably don't make it to 60 in the wild .	當然 , 我會給他們名字 。 他們可以活到60年或更久 , 不過我們認為大部分的人可能不會在野外60歲 。
mr . wurzel . the female has her first baby when she's 11 or 12 .	沃茲爾先生 。 女性生了她十一或十二歲時的第一個嬰兒 。
thereafter , she has one baby only every five or six years , a long period of childhood dependency when the child is nursing , sleeping with the mother at night , and riding on her back .	在那裡 , 她每五、六年就有一個嬰兒 , 一個長期的童年依賴期 , 當孩子在護理時 , 晚上和母親一起睡覺 , 背上騎著 。
and we believe that this long period of childhood is important for chimpanzees , just as it is for us , in relation to learning .	我們相信這段長期的童年對黑猩猩來說是很重要的 , 就如同對我們來說 , 與學習有關 。
as the brain becomes ever more complex during evolution in different forms of animals , so we find that learning plays an ever more important role in an individual's life history .	隨著大腦在不同的動物演化過程中變得更複雜 , 所以我們發現學習在個人生命歷史中扮演著更重要的角色 。
and young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do .	年輕的黑猩猩花了很多時間觀察他們的長者的做法 。
we know now that they're capable of imitating behaviors that they see .	我們現在知道他們能夠模仿他們所看到的行為 。
and we believe that it's in this way that the different toolusing behaviors that have now been seen in all the different chimpanzee populations studied in africa how these are passed from one generation to the next , through observation , imitation and practice , so that we can describe these toolusing behaviors as primitive culture .	我們相信它是以這種方式 , 目前在非洲各個不同黑猩猩族群中所看到的不同的隔閡行為是如何從一個世代傳到下一個世代 , 透過觀察、模仿和練習 , 來形容這些獨立的行為為原始文化 。
chimpanzees don't have a spoken language . we've talked about that .	黑猩猩沒有口語 。 我們已經談到這個了 。
they do have a very rich repertoire of postures and gestures , many of which are similar , or even identical , to ours and formed in the same context . greeting chimpanzees embracing .	它們的確有非常豐富的姿勢和姿勢 , 許多都很相似 , 甚至相同的 , 在同一個背景下形成 , 希臘的黑猩猩擁抱著 。
they also kiss , hold hands , pat one another on the back .	他們也會親吻、握手、拍手 , 背後的另一隻 。
and they swagger and they throw rocks .	牠們會變大 , 會扔石頭 。
in chimpanzee society , we find many , many examples of compassion , precursors to love and true altruism .	在黑猩猩社會中 , 我們發現許多許多關於同情心的例子 , 愛和真正的利他主義 。
unfortunately , they , like us , have a dark side to their nature .	不幸的是 , 他們和我們一樣 , 對他們的天性很黑暗 。
they're capable of extreme brutality , even a kind of primitive war .	他們有能力極度殘酷 , 甚至是一種原始的戰爭 。
and these really aggressive behaviors , for the most part , are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group .	這些非常積極的行為 , 大部分的情況下 , 都被指導要對抗鄰近社會群體的個體 。
they are very territorially aggressive .	它們是非常具侵略性的 。
chimpanzees , i believe , more than any other living creature , have helped us to understand that , after all , there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom .	我相信 , 比任何其他生物都更能幫助我們了解 , 畢竟 , 人類和其他動物界之間沒有明顯的界線 。
it's a very blurry line , and it's getting more blurry all the time as we make even more observations .	這是一條非常模糊的線 , 每當我們看到更多的觀察時 , 都會越來越模糊 。
the study that i began in 1960 is still continuing to this day .	我從1960年開始的研究至今仍然持續著 。
and these chimpanzees , living their complex social lives in the wild , have helped more than anything else to make us realize we are part of , and not separated from , the amazing animals with whom we share the planet .	而這些黑猩猩 , 活在野外複雜的社交生活 , 幫助我們了解到我們是其中的一部分 , 而不是和我們共有的偉大的動物 。
so it's pretty sad to find that chimpanzees , like so many other creatures around the world , are losing their habitats .	所以 , 要找到黑猩猩 , 和世界上許多其他生物一樣 , 會失去牠們的棲息地 。
this is just one photograph from the air , and it shows you the forested highlands of gombe .	這只是一張空氣拍攝的照片 , 這張照片顯示了戈米貝的森林高地 。
and it was when i flew over the whole area , about 16 years ago , and realized that outside the park , this forest , which in 1960 had stretched almost unbroken along the eastern shore of lake tanganyika , which is where the tiny , 30squaremile gombe national park lies , that a question came to my mind .	大約16年前 , 我飛越整個區域 , 發現在公園之外 , 這片森林在1960年 , 在坦尼卡的東岸 , 幾乎沒有破裂 , 在那裡 , 三十平方的戈米貝國家公園就在我腦海中浮現一個問題 。
" how can we even try to save these famous chimpanzees , when the people living around the national park are struggling to survive ? "	「 我們要如何拯救這些有名的黑猩猩 ? 當住在全國公園的人們掙扎生存 ? 」
more people are living there than the land could possibly support .	更多人住在那裏 , 比土地還多 。
the numbers increased by refugees pouring in from burundi and over the lake from congo .	難民湧入緬甸的數量增加了 , 從剛果的湖中湧入的數量 。
and very poor people they couldn't afford to buy food from elsewhere .	非常貧窮的人 , 他們負擔不起從其他地方買食物 。
this led to a program , which we call tacare .	這就導致了一項計畫 , 我們稱之為 「 坦尚尼亞 」 。
it's a very holistic way of improving the lives of the people living in the villages around the park .	這是一種非常全面的改善居住在公園裡的人們的生活方式 。
it started small with 12 villages . it's now in 24 .	從12個村落開始 , 現在是24個村落 。
there isn't time to go into it , but it's including things like tree nurseries , methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded , almost desertlike land up in these mountains .	沒有時間考慮它 , 包括樹木護士、農業方法 , 最適合目前在這些山脈下降 , 幾乎沙漠地面積在這些山脈上 。
ways of controlling , preventing soil erosion .	控制、預防土壤侵蝕的方式 。
ways of reclaiming overused farmland , so that within two years they can again be productive .	重建過度使用的農田 , 這樣一來 , 兩年內 , 他們再次有生產力 。
working to help the villagers obtain fresh water from wells .	致力於協助村民取得新鮮的水源 。
perhaps build some schoolrooms .	也許建造一些學校室 。
most important of all , i believe , is working with small groups of women , providing them with opportunities for microcredit loans .	最重要的是 , 我相信 , 和一小群婦女合作 , 提供他們機會給微型貸款給他們 。
and we've got , as is the case around the world , about 95 percent of all loans returned .	而我們有的 , 正如世界各地 , 大約有95%的貸款回來 。
empowering women , working with education , providing scholarships for girls so they can finish secondary school , in the clear understanding that , all around the world , as women's education improves , family size drops .	賦予女性權力 , 和教育合作 , 提供獎學金給女孩 , 讓他們能完成中學 , 明確地了解全世界 , 身為女性教育改善家庭大小 。
we provide information about family planning and about hiv/aids .	我們提供家庭規劃和愛滋病的資訊 。
and as a result of this program , something's happening for conservation .	由於這個計劃的結果 , 保育的發展 。
what's happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages , instead of looking on us as a bunch of white people coming to study a whole bunch of monkeys and by the way , many of the staff are now tanzanian but when we began the tacare program , it was a tanzanian team going into the villages .	保育的原因是 , 居住在這24個村落的農民 , 而不是把我們當成一群白人來研究一群猴子 , 順帶一提 , 很多是坦尚尼亞人 , 但當我們開始計程時 , 一個坦尚尼亞的團隊進入村落 。
it was a tanzanian team talking to the villagers , asking what they were interested in .	那是坦尚尼亞的團隊 , 和村民談話 , 問他們對什麼有興趣 。
were they interested in conservation ? absolutely not .	他們對保育感興趣嗎 ? 絕對不是 。
they were interested in health ; they were interested in education .	他們對健康有興趣 , 他們對教育有興趣 。
and as time went on , and as their situation began to improve , they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation .	隨著時間過去 , 當他們的情況開始改善 , 他們開始了解保育的必要性 。
they began to understand that as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees , so you've got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides .	他們開始了解 , 隨著山丘的上層被砍伐 , 所以你就有了這種可怕的土壤侵蝕和泥土 。
today , we are developing what we call the greater gombe ecosystem .	今天 , 我們正在開發我們所謂的更大的戈米貝生態系統 。
this is an area way outside the national park , stretching out into all these very degraded lands .	這是國家公園之外的一個區域 , 延伸到各個非常退化的土地上 。
and as these villages have a better standard of life , they are actually agreeing to put between 10 percent and 20 percent of their land in the highlands aside , so that once again , as the trees grow back , the chimpanzees will have leafy corridors through which they can travel to interact as they must for genetic viability with other remnant groups outside the national park .	當這些村落有更好的生活水準時 , 他們實際上同意把土地的10%到20% , 在高地旁邊 , 再一次 , 當樹木長回來 , 黑猩猩會穿過這些樹葉走廊 , 牠們可以在國家公園以外的遺傳性與其它的遺傳性交流 。
so tacare is a success .	所以 , 坦誠是成功的 。
we're replicating it in other parts of africa , around other wilderness areas which are faced with extreme population pressure .	我們在非洲其他地方複製它 , 在其他地方 , 面對極端人口壓力 。
the problems in africa , however , as we've been discussing for the whole of these first couple of days of ted , are major problems .	然而 , 非洲的問題 , 正如我們過去幾天來在ted討論的一樣 , 都是重大的問題 。
there is a great deal of poverty .	有很大的貧窮 。
and when you get large numbers of people living in land that is not that fertile , particularly when you cut down trees , and you leave the soil open to the wind for erosion , as desperate populations cut down more and more trees , so that they can try and grow food for themselves and their families , what's going to happen ? something's got to give .	而當你有大量的居住地 , 不那麼肥沃 , 尤其是當你砍樹的時候 , 你就把土壤打開 , 讓土壤被摧毀 , 因為絕望的人口減少了更多的樹木 , 所以他們可以為自己和家人種食物 , 有什麼事會發生 ?
and the other problems in not only africa , but the rest of the developing world and , indeed , everywhere what are we doing to our planet ?	而其他的問題不只在非洲 , 還在開發中國家 , 的確 , 無所不在 , 我們對地球做了什麼 ?
you know , the famous scientist , e . o . wilson said that if every person on this planet attains the standard of living of the average european or american , we need three new planets .	你知道 , 著名的科學家艾.威爾森說如果地球上的每一個人都能維持一般歐洲人或美國人的平均生活水準 , 我們需要三個新的星球 。
today , they are saying four . but we don't have them . we've got one .	今天 , 他們說四個 , 但我們沒有 。 我們有一個 。
and what's happened ? i mean , the question here is , here we are , arguably the most intelligent being that's ever walked planet earth , with this extraordinary brain , capable of the kind of technology that is so well illustrated by these ted conferences , and yet we're destroying the only home we have .	到底發生了什麼事 ? 我的意思是 , 問題是 , 在這裡 , 我們是最有智慧的 , 地球行走的地球 , 擁有這種非凡的大腦 , 能夠被這些ted會議所描繪出來的科技 , 然而我們卻在摧毀我們唯一的家園 。
the indigenous people around the world , before they made a major decision , used to sit around and ask themselves , " how does this decision affect our people seven generations ahead ? "	世界各地的原住民 , 在他們做了重大決策之前 , 習慣自己坐下來問自己: 「 這個決策會如何影響我們七個世代的人 ? 」
today , major decisions and i'm not particularly talking about africa here , but the developed world major decisions involving millions of dollars , and millions of people , are often based on , " how will this affect the next shareholders' meeting ? "	今天 , 主要的決策 , 我不是特別談非洲 , 而是已開發國家的重大決策 , 來自數百萬人 , 通常都是基於 「 下一個股東會議如何影響下一個股東會議 ? 」
and these decisions affect africa .	這些決策會影響非洲 。
as i began traveling around africa talking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests , i realized more and more how so many of africa's problems could be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation .	當我開始在非洲四處旅行 , 談到黑猩猩和森林面臨的問題時 , 我了解到更多 , 更多非洲的問題可以被限制在過去殖民地開發的大門 。
so i began traveling outside africa , talking in europe , talking in the united states , going to asia .	所以我開始在非洲外面旅行 , 在歐洲聊天 , 在美國聊天 , 去亞洲 。
and everywhere there were these terrible problems .	到處都有這些可怕的問題 。
and you know the kind i'm talking about . i'm talking about pollution .	你知道我所說的那種 , 我在談污染 。
the air that we breathe that often poisons us .	我們常呼吸的空氣會毒害我們 。
the earth is poisoning our foods .	地球正在毒害我們的食物 。
the water water is perhaps one of the most crucial issues that we're going to face in this century and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural , industrial and household chemicals that still are being sprayed around the world , seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience .	水源也許是我們這個世紀所要面對的最關鍵問題之一 , 到處都是水污染 , 被農業、工業和家庭的化學物質所污染 , 這些化學物質仍然在世界各地噴灑 , 似乎無法從過去的經驗中獲利 。
the mangroves are being cut down ; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse .	紅樹林被砍伐 , 海嘯的影響會更糟 。
we've talked about the soil erosion .	我們已經談過土壤的侵蝕 。
we have the reckless burning of fossil fuels along with other greenhouse gasses , so called , leading to climate change .	我們有不可思議的燃燒化石燃料 , 和其他溫室氣體一起燃燒 , 稱為氣候變遷 。
finally , all around the world , people have begun to believe that there is something going on very wrong with our climate .	最後 , 全世界的人們開始相信氣候變遷發生了一些問題 。
all around the world climates are mixed up .	全世界的氣候都混合在一起 。
and it's the poor people who are affected worse .	那些被影響更糟的窮人
it's africa that already is affected .	非洲已經受到影響了 。
in many parts of subsaharan africa , the droughts are so much worse .	在撒哈拉以南非洲的許多地區 , 乾旱更糟 。
and when the rain does come , it so often leads to flooding and added distress , and the cycle of poverty and hunger and disease .	當雨來臨時 , 常常會造成洪水 , 加上煩惱 , 以及貧窮、飢餓和疾病的循環 。
and the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support , who are too poor to buy food , who can't move away because the whole land is degraded .	住在這個地區的人們無法支援 , 他們太貧窮 , 無法購買食物 , 因為整片土地已經退化了 。
and so you get desertification creeping , creeping , creeping as the last of the trees are cut down .	所以你會得到沙漠化的珊瑚礁 , 如樹的最後一棵樹被砍了下來 。
and this kind of thing is not just in africa . it's all over the world .	這種東西並不只是在非洲 , 全世界都是如此 。
so it wasn't surprising to me that as i was traveling around the world i met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope .	所以 , 我並不意外 , 當我在世界各地旅行時 , 我遇到許多年輕人似乎失去了希望 。
we seem to have lost wisdom , the wisdom of the indigenous people .	我們似乎失去了智慧 , 原住民的智慧 。
i asked a question . " why ? "	我問了一個問題: 「 為什麼 ? 」
well , do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain , the kind of brain that the ted technologies exemplify , and the human heart ? talking about it in the nonscientific term , in terms of love and compassion . is there some disconnect ?	嗯 , 你認為這種非凡聰明的大腦之間可能有某種區別嗎 ? 這種大腦是ted科技的絕種 , 而人類的心呢 ? 以非科學的角度來說 , 在愛和同情的角度來說 , 有沒有其他的連結 ?
and these young people , when i talk to them , basically they were either depressed or apathetic , or bitter and angry . and they said more or less the same thing , " we feel this way because we feel you've compromised our future and there's nothing we can do about it . "	而這些年輕人 , 當我和他們談話時 , 基本上他們是憂鬱或厭惡感 , 或厭惡感和憤怒 。 他們說了更多的話: 「 我們會這樣感覺 , 因為我們覺得你已經妥協了我們的未來 , 我們什麼都沒做 。 」
we have compromised their future .	我們有妥協他們的未來 。
i've got three little grandchildren , and every time i look at them and i think how we've harmed this beautiful planet since i was their age , i feel this desperation .	我有三位孫子 , 每次我看著他們 , 我就會想我們如何傷害這個美麗的星球 , 從我年紀開始 , 我就感到絕望 。
and that led to this program we call roots and shoots , which began right here in tanzania and has now spread to 97 countries around the world .	結果我們稱之為 「 根與芽 」 , 起源於坦尚尼亞 , 現在已經擴散到全世界97個國家 。
it's symbolic . roots make a firm foundation .	它是象徵性的 。 樹根會創造一個堅定的基礎 。
shoots seem tiny ; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall .	槍枝看起來很小 ; 要抵達太陽 , 就能穿過一堵磚牆 。
see the brick wall as all these problems we've inflicted on the planet , environmental and social . it's a message of hope .	把磚牆看成我們在地球上所遇到的問題 , 環境和社會問題 。 這是一種希望的訊息 。
hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things .	世界各地有成千上萬的年輕人可以打破這個世界 , 讓所有生物都能成為更好的世界 。
the most important message of roots and shoots: every single one of us makes a difference , every single day .	根與芽的最重要的訊息:我們每一個人每天都會有所改變 。
we have a choice . every one of us in this room , we have a choice as to what kind of difference we want to make .	我們有選擇 。 在座的每一個人 , 我們都有選擇去做出我們想要的差異 。
the very poor have no choice . it's up to us to change things so that the poor have choice as well .	非常貧窮的人沒有選擇 , 決定要改變事情 , 讓窮人也有選擇 。
the roots and shoots groups all choose three projects .	根部和槍枝團體都選擇三個計畫 。
it depends on how old they are , and which country , whether they're in a city or rural , as to what kinds of projects .	它取決於它們有多老 , 哪個國家 , 不論是城市或鄉村 , 都要仰賴什麼樣的計畫 。
but basically , we have programs now from preschool right through university , with more and more adults starting their own roots and shoots groups .	但基本上 , 我們現在有了從幼稚園到大學的程式 , 越來越多成年人開始自己的根源和芽團體 。
and every group chooses , between them , three different kinds of project to make this a better world , recognizing that all these different problems are interconnected and impinge on each other .	每個團體的選擇 , 兩者之間有三種不同的專案 , 讓這個世界變得更美好 , 認知所有這些不同的問題都互相連結 , 互相衝突 。
so one of their projects will be to help their own human community .	其中一項計畫是幫助他們自己的人類社群 。
and then , if they're able , they may raise money to help communities in other parts of the world .	接著 , 如果他們能夠的話 , 他們可能會募到錢來協助世界上其他地方的社區 。
one of their projects will be to help animals not just wildlife , domestic animals as well .	其中一個計畫是幫助動物 , 不僅僅是野生動物 , 還有家畜 。
and one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share .	其中一個計畫是幫助我們共享的環境 。
and woven throughout all of this is a message of learning to live in peace and harmony within ourselves , in our families , in our communities , between nations , between cultures , between religions and between us and the natural world .	在這一切中 , 都包含了學習的訊息 , 是關於我們內在的和平和和諧 , 在我們的家庭、在我們的社區、國家、文化之間、宗教之間、和自然界之間 。
we need the natural world . we cannot go on destroying it at the rate we are .	我們需要自然界 。 我們不能以速率破壞它 。
we not do have more than this one planet .	我們沒有超過這顆行星 。
just picking one or two of the projects right here in africa that the roots and shoots groups are doing , one or two projects only in tanzania , in uganda , kenya , south africa , congobrazzaville , sierra leone , cameroon and other groups . and as i say , it's in 97 countries around the world .	在非洲這裡挑選其中一兩項項目 , 由根和槍枝組成 , 其中一兩項目 , 只有一兩項目 , 在坦尚尼亞、肯亞、南非、剛果、獅子山共和國、喀麥隆和其它團體 。 如我所說的 , 世界上有97個國家 。
of course , they're planting trees . they're growing organic vegetables .	當然 , 他們種植樹 , 種植有機蔬菜 。
they're working in the refugee camps , with chickens and selling the eggs for a little amount of money , or just using them to feed their families , and feeling a sense of pride and empowerment , because they're no longer helpless and depending on others with their vegetables and their chickens .	他們在難民營工作 , 用雞和雞來賣蛋 , 或用它們來餵他們的家人 , 感受到自豪和賦權 , 因為它們不再是無助的 , 依靠蔬菜和雞肉來取代別人 。
it's being used in uganda to give some psychological help to exchild soldiers .	它被用在烏干達 , 給予精神上的幫助 , 給予智能士兵 。
doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves .	做像這樣的項目 , 會讓他們自己脫離 。
once again , they're useful members of society .	再一次 , 他們是有用的社會成員 。
we have this program in prisons as well .	我們在監獄也有這個計畫 。
so , there's no time for more roots and shoots now .	所以 , 現在沒有時間可以多一點根和芽 。
but oh , they're also working on hiv/aids .	但 , 喔 , 他們也在研究愛滋病 。
that's a very important component of roots and shoots , with older kids talking to younger ones .	那是根與芽的非常重要的部分 , 年長的孩子會和較年輕的孩子交談 。
and unwanted pregnancies and things like that , which young people listen to better from other youth , rather than adults .	像這樣的事 , 年輕人會傾聽其他年輕人的傾聽 , 而不是成年人 。
hope . that's the question i get asked as i'm going around the world: " jane , you've seen so many terrible things , you've seen your chimpanzees decrease in number from about one million , at the turn of the century , to no more than 150 , 000 now , and the same with so many other animals .	希望 , 我在世界各地被問到這個問題: 「 珍 , 你看過這麼多可怕的東西 , 你見過黑猩猩數量從一百萬年開始 , 到現在都不到十五萬 , 和許多其他動物都一樣 。
forests disappearing , deserts where once there was forest .	森林消失 , 曾經有過森林的沙漠 。
do you really have hope ? " well , yes .	你真的有希望嗎 ? " 是的 。
you can't come to a conference like ted and not have hope , can you ?	你不能來參加像ted這樣的會議 , 沒有希望 , 你能嗎 ?
and of course , there's hope . one is this amazing human brain .	當然 , 這裡有希望 。 一個是令人驚嘆的大腦 。
and i mean , think of the technologies .	我的意思是 , 想想科技 。
and i've just been so thrilled , finally , to come to people talking about compost latrines .	最後 , 我真的很興奮 , 終於 , 大家來談談作曲公司 。
it's one of my hobbyhorses .	這是我的嗜好之一 。
we just flush all this water down the lavatory , it's terrible .	我們把所有的水都沖下了 , 很糟糕 。
and then talking about renewable energy desperately important .	接著 , 談到可再生能源 , 迫切重要 。
do we care about the planet for our children ?	我們是否在乎我們的孩子的星球 ?
how many of us have children or grandchildren , nieces , nephews ?	有多少人有孩子或孫子、姪女、姪女 ?
do we care about their future ?	我們是否在乎他們的未來 ?
and if we care about their future , we , as the elite around the world , we can do something about it . we can make choices as to how we live each day .	如果我們在乎他們的未來 , 我們 , 身為世界各地的精英 , 我們能做點什麼 。 我們可以做一些選擇 , 來做我們每天生活的方式 。
what we buy . what we wear .	我們買什麼 , 穿什麼衣服 。
and choose to make these choices with the question , how will this affect the environment around me ?	選擇用問題來做這些選擇 , 這會如何影響我周遭的環境 ?
how will it affect the life of my child when he or she grows up ?	在成長過程中 , 它會如何影響我孩子的生命 ?
or my grandchild , or whatever it is .	或是我的孫子 , 不管是什麼 。
so the human brain , coupled with the human heart , and we join hands around the world .	所以 , 人類的大腦 , 和人類的心結合 , 我們加入世界各地的手 。
and that's what ted is helping so well with , and google who help us , and esri are helping us with mapping in gombe national park .	這也是ted幫助我們做的 , google幫助我們 , esri幫助我們在國立公園繪製戈米貝爾國家公園 。
all of these technologies we can use .	所有這些我們能使用的科技 。
now let's link them , and it's beginning to happen , isn't it ?	現在讓我們把它們連結起來 , 開始發生 , 不是嗎 ?
you've heard about it this afternoon . it's beginning to happen .	你們今年下午聽說過它 , 正開始發生 。
this change , this change . to see change that we must have if we care about the future .	這種改變 , 這種改變 。 若我們在乎未來 , 我們就必須要看到改變 。
and the next reason for hope nature is amazingly resilient .	而希望大自然的下一個理由 , 是驚人的韌性 。
you can take an area that's absolutely destroyed , with time and perhaps some help it can regenerate .	你可以把一個絕對被摧毀的區域 , 花點時間 , 也許有些協助它再生 。
and an example is the tacare program .	一個例子是 「 坦尚尼 」 。
i told you , where a seemingly dead tree stump if you stop hacking them for firewood , which you don't need to because you have wood lots , then in five years you can have a 30foot tree .	我跟你說 , 一棵似乎已經死掉的樹木 , 如果你阻止它們生火 , 你不需要因為有木頭 , 那麼五年內你就可以有一棵三十英尺長的樹 。
and animals , almost on the brink of extinction , can be given a second chance . that's my next book .	動物 , 幾乎是滅絕的邊緣 , 可以給予第二次機會 。 這是我的下一本書 。
it's inspiring . and it brings me to my last category of hope , and we've heard about this so much in the last two days: this indomitable human spirit . this determination of people , the resilience of the human spirit , so that people who you would think would be battered by poverty , or disease , or whatever , can pull themselves up out of it , sometimes with a helping hand , and take their part in society , and take their part in changing the world .	它激勵了我 。 它帶給我最後一類的希望 , 在過去的兩天中 , 我們已經聽說過這一點:這可行的人類精神 。 人類精神的決心 , 人類精神的韌性 , 所以你認為會被貧窮、疾病打擊 , 或什麼 , 都可以把他們自己從中拔出來 , 有時是有幫助的手 , 帶著他們參與社會的一部分 , 改變世界的一部分 。
and just to think of one or two people out of africa who are just really inspiring .	光是想一下 , 非洲只有一兩個人真的很鼓舞人心 。
we could make a very long list , but obviously nelson mandela , emerging from 17 years of hard physical labor , 23 years of imprisonment , with this amazing ability to forgive , so that he could lead his nation out the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath .	我們可以列出非常長的清單 , 但很明顯的 , 曼德拉 , 從十七年的辛苦實體勞動 , 23年的監禁 , 帶著寬恕的能力 , 讓他能夠帶領國出種族隔離的邪惡政權 , 卻沒有血腥戰爭 。
ken sarowiwa , in nigeria , who took on the giant oil companies , and although people around the world tried their best , was executed .	在奈及利亞 , 肯薩洛伊瓦 , 他採用了巨大的石油公司 , 雖然世界各地的人盡了最好 , 卻被處決了 。
people like this are so inspirational .	像這樣的人是非常鼓舞人心的 。
people like this are the role models we need for young africans .	像這樣的人 , 是非洲年輕人所需要的典範 。
and we need some environmental role models as well , and i've been hearing some of them today .	我們也需要一些環保的榜樣 , 今天我聽到了其中一些 。
so i'm really grateful for this opportunity to share this message again , with everyone at ted .	所以我很感激這個機會 , 能再次和ted的所有人分享這個訊息 。
and i hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things , especially the roots and shoots program .	我希望有些人能聚在一起討論這些事 , 尤其是根與芽計畫 。
and just a last word on that the young woman who's running this entire conference center , i met her today .	最後一個字是那個跑完整個會議中心的年輕女子 , 我今天見到她 。
she came up so excited , with her certificate . she was [in] roots and shoots .	她很興奮 , 用她的認證 , 她是根和芽 。
she was in the leadership in dar es salaam .	她在達拉姆的領導階層 。
she said it's helped her to do what she's doing .	她說 , 協助她做她正在做的事 。
and it was very , very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people , when they are empowered , given the opportunity to take action , to make the world a better place , truly are our hope for tomorrow .	對我來說 , 很興奮 , 能見到她 , 看到一個例子 , 說明年輕人是如何被賦予權力 , 因為有機會採取行動 , 讓世界更美好 , 真正是我們明天的希望 。
artist dianna cohen shares some tough truths about plastic pollution in the ocean and in our lives and some thoughts on how to free ourselves from the plastic gyre .	藝術家dannacohen分享了一些關於海洋的塑膠污染以及我們的生活以及一些想法 , 來解放我們自己 , 避免塑膠垃圾 。
consumerism , global issues , green , mission blue , oceans , plastic	消費主義、全球議題、綠色、使命藍色、海洋、塑膠、塑膠等問題、
dianna cohen: tough truths about plastic pollution	戴安娜柯恩:關於塑膠污染的艱難事實 。
i'm a visual artist , and i'm also one of the cofounders of the plastic pollution coalition .	我是一位視覺藝術家 , 我也是塑膠污染聯盟的共同創辦人之一 。
i've been working with plastic bags , which i cut up and sew back together as my primary material for my artwork for the last 20 years .	我和塑膠袋合作 , 在過去二十年間 , 我把這些塑膠袋剪起來 , 用我的藝術作品做為我的主要材料 。
i turn them into two and threedimensional pieces and sculptures and installations .	我把它們變成兩個三維的碎片、雕塑和裝置 。
upon working with the plastic , after about the first eight years , some of my work started to fissure and break down into smaller little bits of plastic .	在與塑膠合作後 , 大約八年後 , 我的一些作品開始裂縫 , 分裂成小小的塑膠 。
and i thought , " great .	我心想: 「 太棒了 。
it's ephemeral just like us . "	它就像我們一樣 。 」
upon educating myself a little further about plastics , i actually realized this was a bad thing .	在教導我更進一步關於塑膠的知識之後 , 我發現這是一件壞事 。
it's a bad thing that plastic breaks down into smaller little bits , because it's always still plastic .	塑膠破裂成較小的部分 , 因為它一直都是塑膠 。
and what we're finding is that a lot of it is in the marine environment .	我們發現 , 在海洋環境中有很多東西 。
i then , in the last few years , learned about the pacific garbage patch and the gyre .	接下來的幾年 , 我學到了太平洋垃圾堆和垃圾堆 。
and my initial reaction and i think this is a lot of people's first reaction to learning about it is , " oh my god !	我最初的反應是 , 很多人的第一反應是: 「 天啊 !
we've got to go out there and clean this thing up . "	我們得把這個東西清理乾淨 。 」
so i actually developed a proposal to go out with a cargo ship and two decommissioned fishing trawlers , a crane , a chipping machine and a coldmolding machine .	所以 , 我真的開發了一個提案 , 用一艘貨船和兩艘退貨拖網商、一台拖車、一台磨碎機和一台冷貨機 。
and my intention was to go out to the gyre , raise awareness about this issue and begin to pick up the plastic , chip it into little bits and cold mold it into bricks that could potentially be used as building materials in underdeveloped communities .	我的意圖是去到gyre , 提高對於這個議題的意識 , 然後開始把塑膠 , 晶片變成一點點 , 把它冷藏成磚塊 , 可以被用來建造在被開發的社區內的建築材料 。
i began talking with people who actually had been out to the gyre and were studying the plastic problem in the marine environment and upon doing so , i realized actually that cleaning it up would be a very small drop in the bucket relative to how much is being generated every day around the world , and that actually i needed to back up and look at the bigger picture .	我開始和那些曾經去過海灣的人們談話 , 研究海洋環境中的塑膠問題 , 在做這件事時 , 我了解到 , 清理它將會是非常小的一滴 , 相對於全世界每天產生多少東西 , 我需要回頭看更大的照片 。
and the bigger picture is: we need to find a way to turn off the faucet .	更大的看法是:我們需要找到一種方法來關掉錯誤 。
we need to cut the spigot of singleuse and disposable plastics , which are entering the marine environment every day on a global scale .	我們需要切割單一和可丟棄的塑膠的位置 , 每天都在全球的海洋環境中進入海洋環境 。
so in looking at that , i also realized that i was really angry .	所以 , 看看這一點 , 我也發現我真的很生氣 。
i wasn't just concerned about plastic that you're trying to imagine out in the middle of the pacific ocean of which i have learned there are now 11 gyres , potentially , of plastic in five major oceans in the world .	我不只關心塑膠 , 而是你試著想像在太平洋中間 , 我所學到的 , 現在有11gyres , 潛在五大洋的塑膠 。
it's not just that gyre of plastic that i'm concerned about it's the gyre of plastic in the supermarket .	不只是我所關心的塑膠垃圾 , 是超市的塑膠垃圾 。
i'd go to the supermarket and all of my food is packaged in plastic .	我會去超市 , 我所有的食物都是用塑膠包裝的 。
all of my beverages are packaged in plastic , even at the health food market .	我所有的平均值都包含在塑膠上 , 甚至在健康食品市場上 。
i'm also concerned about the plastic in the refrigerator , and i'm concerned about the plastic and the toxins that leach from plastic into us and into our bodies .	我也關心冰箱裡的塑膠 , 我關心的是塑膠和塑膠的毒素 , 將塑膠帶進我們的身體 。
so i came together with a group of other people who were all looking at this issue , and we created the plastic pollution coalition .	所以我和一群人一起研究這個問題 , 我們創造了塑膠污染聯盟 。
we have many initiatives that we're working on , but some of them are very basic .	我們有許多計畫正在進行 , 但其中有一些是非常基本的 。
one is: if 80 to 90 percent of what we're finding in the ocean of the marine debris that we're finding in the ocean is plastic , then why don't we call it what it is .	第一:如果我們在海洋中發現的海洋中 , 80%到90%到90%都是塑膠 , 那麼我們為什麼不把它稱為它 。
recycling everybody kind of ends their books about being sustainable and greening with the idea of recycling .	回收每個人的書籍 , 內容是要以回收方式來維持永續和綠化 。
you put something in a bin and you don't have to think about it again .	你把東西放進一個桶子裡 , 你不需要再想一想 。
what is the reality of that ?	什麼是它的現實呢 ?
in the united states , less than seven percent of our plastics are recycled .	在美國 , 少於7%的塑膠回收 。
and if you really look into it , particularly when it comes to plastic bottles , most of it is only downcycled , or incinerated , or shipped to china .	如果你真的仔細看 , 尤其是關於塑膠瓶 , 大部分的瓶子只會下降 , 或被送到中國 。
it is downcycled and turned into lesser things , while a glass bottle can be a glass bottle again or can be used again a plastic bottle can never be a plastic bottle again .	它被拆解 , 變成更少的東西 , 而玻璃瓶可以再次成為玻璃瓶 , 或者再次使用塑膠瓶 , 永遠不會再次成為塑膠瓶 。
so this is a big issue for us .	這對我們來說是個大問題 。
another thing that we're looking at and asking people to think about is we've added a fourth r onto the front of the " reduce , reuse , recycle , " three r's , and that is refuse .	另一件我們正在看的東西 , 請大家思考 , 我們已經在 「 減少、再利用、回收 」 前面加上了第四個環 , 那就是拒絕 。
whenever possible , refuse singleuse and disposable plastics .	無論何時 , 都會拒絕單一的塑膠 。
alternatives exist ; some of them are very oldschool .	替代方案存在 ; 有些是非常古老的學者 。
i myself am now collecting these cool pyrex containers and using those instead of glad and tupperware containers to store food in .	我現在正在收集這些很酷的pyx容器 , 而不是用那些玻璃和tuperware的容器來儲存食物 。
and i know that i am doing a service to myself and my family .	我知道我在為自己和家人服務 。
it's very easy to pick up a stainlesssteel bottle or a glass bottle , if you're traveling and you've forgotten to bring your stainlesssteel bottle and fill that up with water or filtered water , versus purchasing plastic bottled water .	如果你在旅行時 , 很容易就拿起一瓶不粘的酒瓶或玻璃瓶 , 你已經忘了帶著一瓶不變的汽水填滿水或過濾的塑膠瓶 , 和購買塑膠瓶的水 。
i guess what i want to say to everybody here and i know that you guys know a lot about this issue is that this is a huge problem in the oceans , but this is a problem that we've created as consumers and we can solve .	我猜我想在這裡對大家說些什麼 , 我知道你們對這個議題了解很多 , 就是這在海洋中是很大的問題 , 但我們身為消費者 , 能解決的問題 。
we can solve this by raising awareness of the issue and teaching people to choose alternatives .	我們可以藉由提高意識到問題和教導人們選擇替代性 。
so whenever possible , to choose alternatives to singleuse plastics .	所以 , 無論何時 , 選擇選擇單一使用塑膠的替代方案 。
we can cut the stem tide the stem of this into our oceans and in doing so , save our oceans , save our planet , save ourselves .	我們可以把幹線切成海洋 , 這樣做 , 拯救我們的海洋 , 拯救我們的星球 , 拯救我們自己 。
this demo from pattie maes' lab at mit , spearheaded by pranav mistry was the buzz of ted . it's a wearable device with a projector that paves the way for profound interaction with our environment . imagine " minority report " and then some .	這位ptiemaes在麻省理工學院的實驗室的展示 , 帕拉夫•米萊特是ted的推動裝置 。 這是一台可穿戴式裝置 , 以與我們的環境互動為例 。 想像一下 「 少數族群報告 」 , 然後有些 。
demo , design , interface design , technology	展示、設計、介面設計、科技、科技、科技等 。
pattie maes and pranav mistry demo sixthsense	pattiemaes和pranavdemose第六感測器 。
i've been intrigued by this question of whether we could evolve or develop a sixth sense a sense that would give us seamless access and easy access to metainformation or information that may exist somewhere that may be relevant to help us make the right decision about whatever it is that we're coming across .	我對這個問題很感興趣 , 究竟我們能否進化或發展出第六感 , 一種感覺 , 一種感覺 , 一種讓我們無縫可取代、容易取得的資訊 , 或可能存在於某處 , 來協助我們做出正確的決定 , 來決定我們要面對的是什麼 。
and some of you may argue , well , don't today's cell phones do that already ?	在座有些人可能會認為 , 嗯 , 今天的手機已經做到了嗎 ?
but i would say no .	但我會說 , 不行 。
when you meet someone here at ted and this is the top networking place , of course , of the year you don't shake somebody's hand and then say , " can you hold on for a moment while i take out my phone and google you ? "	當你在ted見到某人時 , 當然是最頂尖的網絡地點 , 你不會握某人的手 , 然後說: 「 你能拿出手機和谷歌嗎 ? 」
or when you go to the supermarket and you're standing there in that huge aisle of different types of toilet papers , you don't take out your cell phone , and open a browser , and go to a website to try to decide which of these different toilet papers is the most ecologically responsible purchase to make .	或者 , 當你去超市 , 你站在那裡 , 那裡有大量不同的廁所論文 , 你不會拿手機 , 打開瀏覽器 , 然後去一個網站 , 試著決定哪些不同的廁所論文是最環保的購買方式 。
so we don't really have easy access to all this relevant information that can just help us make optimal decisions about what to do next and what actions to take .	所以 , 我們沒有很容易取得這些相關的資訊 , 來協助我們做出最佳決定 , 來決定接下來要做什麼 , 以及要採取什麼行動 。
and so my research group at the media lab has been developing a series of inventions to give us access to this information in a sort of easy way , without requiring that the user changes any of their behavior .	所以我在媒體實驗室的研究團隊已經開發了一系列的發明 , 讓我們能以簡單的方式取得這些資訊 , 不需要使用者改變他們的行為 。
and i'm here to unveil our latest effort , and most successful effort so far , which is still very much a work in process .	我來這裡是為了揭開我們最新的努力 , 目前為止 , 大部分成功的努力 , 這仍然是過程中非常重要的工作 。
i'm actually wearing the device right now and we've sort of cobbled it together with components that are off the shelf and that , by the way , only cost 350 dollars at this point in time .	我現在穿著這個裝置 , 我們把它和櫃子上架的零件組合在一起 , 順帶一提 , 那時只有350美金 。
i'm wearing a camera , just a simple webcam , a portable , batterypowered projection system with a little mirror .	我戴著一台攝影機 , 只是一個簡單的網路攝影機 , 一個可攜式的電池驅動投影系統 , 上面有一面鏡子 。
these components communicate to my cell phone in my pocket which acts as the communication and computation device .	這些元件在我的口袋裡傳達給我的手機 , 可以當作溝通和計算設備 。
and in the video here we see my student pranav mistry , who's really the genius who's been implementing and designing this whole system .	在這段影片中 , 我們看到我的學生帕拉夫•米特里 , 他是當時正在實施和設計這個系統的天才 。
and we see how this system lets him walk up to any surface and start using his hands to interact with the information that is projected in front of him .	我們看到這個系統如何讓他走到任何表面上 , 開始用他的雙手和投射在他面前的資訊互動 。
the system tracks the four significant fingers .	系統追蹤四個重要的手指 。
in this case , he's wearing simple marker caps that you may recognize .	在這個例子中 , 他戴著簡單的標記帽子 , 你可能認得出來 。
but if you want a more stylish version you could also paint your nails in different colors .	但如果你想要一個更風格的版本 , 你也可以用不同的顏色來畫你的指甲 。
and the camera basically tracks these four fingers and recognizes any gestures that he's making so he can just go to , for example , a map of long beach , zoom in and out , etc .	攝影機基本上可以追蹤這四根手指 , 辨識出他正在做的任何手勢 , 例如 , 長灘的地圖放大 , 等等 。
the system also recognizes iconic gestures such as the " take a picture " gesture , and then takes a picture of whatever is in front of you .	這個系統也能辨識出有代表性的姿勢 , 比如 「 拍照 」 的姿勢 , 然後拍下你面前的任何東西 。
and when he then walks back to the media lab , he can just go up to any wall and project all the pictures that he's taken , sort through them and organize them , and resize them , etc . , again using all natural gestures .	當他走回媒體實驗室時 , 他可以走到任何牆上 , 投影他所拍攝的所有照片 , 透過這些照片 , 整理它們 , 將它們放大 , 再次使用各種自然手勢 。
so , some of you most likely were here two years ago and saw the demo by jeff han or some of you may think , " well , doesn't this look like the microsoft surface table ? "	所以 , 在座有些人可能兩年前來到這裡 , 傑夫•漢或者有些人可能會想: 「 這不是微軟的表面桌子嗎 ? 」
and yes , you also interact using natural gestures , both hands , etc .	沒錯 , 你也會用自然手勢、雙手等等互動 。
but the difference here is that you can use any surface , you can walk to up to any surface , including your hand if nothing else is available and interact with this projected data .	但這裡的差別是 , 你可以用任何表面 , 你可以走到任何表面上 , 包括你的手 , 如果沒有其他東西可以使用 , 並與這個投影資料互動 。
the device is completely portable , and can be . . .	這個裝置是完全可攜帶的 , 也可以是......
so one important difference is that it's totally mobile .	其中一個重要的差別是它完全是行動裝置 。
another even more important difference is that in mass production this would not cost more tomorrow than today's cell phones and would actually not sort of be a bigger packaging could look a lot more stylish than this version that i'm wearing around my neck .	另外一個更重要的差別在於 , 大量生產--這並不會比今日的手機還多 , 實際上不會像一個更大的包裝 , 看起來會比我穿著脖子的這個版本還多 。
but other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as tom cruise in " minority report , " the reason why we're really excited about this device is that it really can act as one of these sixthsense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you .	但 , 除了讓你們之外 , 在《少數報告》中 , 湯姆•克魯斯的幻想中 , 除此之外 , 我們對這個裝置感到興奮的原因之一 , 是它真的可以作為第六感設備 , 讓你知道你面前的任何東西 。
so we see pranav here going into the supermarket and he's shopping for some paper towels .	我們看到帕拉走進超市 , 他在購物一些紙巾 。
and , as he picks up a product the system can recognize the product that he's picking up , using either image recognition or marker technology , and give him the green light or an orange light .	當他拿起產品時 , 系統就能辨識出他所撿到的產品 , 使用影像辨識或標記技術 , 給他綠燈或橘色燈 。
he can ask for additional information .	他可以尋求額外的資訊 。
so this particular choice here is a particularly good choice , given his personal criteria .	所以這個特殊的選擇 , 是一個特別好的選擇 , 因為他個人的標準 。
some of you may want the toilet paper with the most bleach in it rather than the most ecologicallyresponsible choice .	你們之中有些人可能想要有最多麻煩的馬桶紙而不是最環保的選擇
if he picks up a book in the bookstore , he can get an amazon rating it gets projected right on the cover of the book .	如果他在書店裡拿起一本書 , 他就可以拿到亞馬遜評分 , 書的封面就會被投射出來 。
this is juan's book , our previous speaker , which gets a great rating , by the way , at amazon .	這是juan的書 , 我們先前的講者 , 順便一提 , 在亞馬遜有很棒的評分 。
and so , pranav turns the page of the book and can then see additional information about the book reader comments , maybe sort of information by his favorite critic , etc .	所以 , 帕拉夫轉換了這本書的頁面 , 然後再看出額外的資訊 , 關於書讀者的評論 , 也許是他最喜歡的資訊 。
if he turns to a particular page he finds an annotation by maybe an expert of a friend of ours that gives him a little bit of additional information about whatever is on that particular page .	如果他轉向某個特定的頁面 , 他可能是一位朋友的專家 , 給他一些額外的資訊 , 關於那個頁面上的任何東西 。
reading the newspaper it never has to be outdated .	閱讀報紙 , 它永遠不會過時 。
you can get video annotations of the event that you're reading about you can get the latest sports scores etc .	你可以得到你正在閱讀的事件的視覺表達 , 你可以得到最新的運動分數 。
this is a more controversial one .	這是一個更具爭議性的 。
as you interact with someone at ted , maybe you can see a word cloud of the tags , the words that are associated with that person in their blog and personal web pages .	當你和ted的某個人互動時 , 也許你能看到一個標籤的雲朵 , 和那個人的部落格和個人網頁有關的字詞 。
in this case , the student is interested in cameras , etc .	在這個案例中 , 學生對攝影機感興趣等等 。
on your way to the airport , if you pick up your boarding pass , it can tell you that your flight is delayed , that the gate has changed , etc .	在你到機場的路上 , 如果你拿起你的登機 , 它可以告訴你你的飛行器延遲 , 門已經改變了 , 等等 。
and , if you need to know what the current time is it's as simple as drawing a watch on your arm .	如果你需要知道目前的時光 , 就好像在手臂上畫著手錶一樣簡單 。
so that's where we're at so far in developing this sixth sense that would give us seamless access to all this relevant information about the things that we may come across .	這就是我們目前正在開發第六感 , 使我們能夠無縫地取得所有相關資訊 , 來了解我們可能遇到的事物 。
my student pranav , who's really , like i said , the genius behind this .	我的學生帕拉 , 真的 , 像我剛才說的 , 是背後的天才 。
he does deserve a lot of applause because i don't think he's slept much in the last three months , actually .	他的確需要很多掌聲 , 因為我不認為他在過去三個月內睡得多 。
and his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either .	他的女朋友可能也不高興他 。
but it's not perfect yet , it's very much a work in progress .	但它還不完美 , 它在進步中非常重要 。
and who knows , maybe in another 10 years we'll be here with the ultimate sixth sense brain implant .	誰知道 , 也許在接下來的十年 , 我們將會來到終極的第六感植入 。
phyllis rodriguez and aicha elwafi have a powerful friendship born of unthinkable loss . rodriguez' son was killed in the world trade center attacks on september 11 , 2001 ; elwafi's son zacarias moussaoui was convicted of a role in those attacks and is serving a life sentence . in hoping to find peace , these two moms have come to understand and respect one another .	菲利斯•羅德里奇和阿西瓦菲有著強烈的友誼 , 出生於不可思議的損失 。 羅德里格斯的兒子在2001年9月11日被殺 ; 艾爾瓦夫的兒子祖撒拉索瑞亞•莫薩波撒瓦伊被定罪於攻擊中的角色 , 希望能找到和平 , 這兩位母親已經開始了解並尊重彼此 。
culture , global issues , politics	文化、全球議題、政治、政治、
9/11 healing: the mothers who found forgiveness , friendship	9/11療癒:找到寬恕、友誼的母親 。
phyllis rodriguez: we are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship .	菲利斯•羅德里格茲:我們今天來到這裡 , 是因為我們有許多人認為非凡的友誼 。
and yet , it feels natural to us now .	但 , 現在對我們來說 , 感覺很自然 。
i first learned that my son had been in the world trade center on the morning of september 11th , 2001 .	我第一次了解到 , 我兒子在2001年9月11日早上 , 在世貿中心 。
we didn't know if he had perished yet until 36 hours later .	我們不知道他是否在36小時後死了 。
at the time , we knew that it was political .	當時 , 我們知道這是政治的 。
we were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son my husband , orlando , and i and our family .	我們害怕我們的國家會以我們兒子的名義來做些什麼 , 奧蘭多 , 我和我們的家人 。
and when i saw it and yet , through the shock , the terrible shock , and the terrible explosion in our lives , literally , we were not vengeful .	然而當我看到它 , 透過震驚、可怕的震驚 , 以及我們人生中可怕的爆炸 , 實際上 , 我們並非有毒的 。
and a couple of weeks later when zacarias moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism , and the u . s . government called for a death penalty for him , if convicted , my husband and i spoke out in opposition to that , publicly .	幾個星期後 , 祖撒拉索伊號指出了六個陰謀 , 要犯下恐怖主義 , 美國政府稱他為死刑 , 如果被定罪 , 我的丈夫和我在公開的對立中發言 。
through that and through human rights groups , we were brought together with several other victims' families .	透過這些人權團體 , 我們和其他受害者的家人聚在一起 。
when i saw aicha in the media , coming over when her son was indicted , and i thought , " what a brave woman .	當我在媒體上看到aicha , 她兒子被指控時 , 我心想: 「 什麼是一位勇敢的女人 。
someday i want to meet that woman when i'm stronger . "	有一天 , 我想要在我強壯的時候認識那個女人 。 」
i was still in deep grief ; i knew i didn't have the strength .	我還在深深的悲傷中 , 我知道我沒有力量 。
i knew i would find her someday , or we would find each other .	我知道我有一天會找到她 , 或者我們會找到彼此 。
because , when people heard that my son was a victim , i got immediate sympathy .	因為 , 當人們聽到我兒子是受害者時 , 我馬上就有同理心了 。
but when people learned what her son was accused of , she didn't get that sympathy .	但當人們學會兒子被指控時 , 她沒有得到同情心 。
but her suffering is equal to mine .	但她的苦難和我一樣 。
so we met in november 2002 , and aicha will now tell you how that came about .	所以 , 我們在2002年11月見面 , aicha將告訴你們這如何發生 。
aicha elwafi: good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen .	aichaelwafi:午安 , 各位先生女士 。
i am the mother of zacarias moussaoui .	我是zariassaoui的母親 。
and i asked the organization of human rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims .	我問了人權組織 , 讓我聯絡受害者的父母 。
so they introduced me to five families .	所以他們把我介紹給五個家庭 。
and i saw phyllis , and i watched her .	我看到了phyllis , 我看著她 。
she was the only mother in the group .	她是群體中唯一的母親 。
the others were brothers , sisters .	其他人則是兄弟姊妹 。
and i saw in her eyes that she was a mother , just like me .	我在她的眼中看到她是母親 , 就像我一樣 。
i suffered a lot as a mother .	我身為母親 , 遭遇了許多苦難 。
i was married when i was 14 .	我14歲時結婚了 。
i lost a child when i was 15 , a second child when i was 16 .	我十五歲時失去了一個孩子 , 我十六歲時第二個孩子 。
so the story with zacarias was too much really .	所以 , zacaria的故事實在太多了 。
and i still suffer , because my son is like he's buried alive .	我仍然受苦 , 因為我的兒子就好像他活著一樣 。
i know she really cried for her son .	我知道她真的為她的兒子哭了 。
but she knows where he is .	但她知道他在哪裡 。
my son , i don't know where he is .	我的兒子 , 我不知道他在哪裡 。
i don't know if he's alive . i don't know if he's tortured .	我不知道他是否還活著 , 我不知道他是否受到折磨 。
i don't know what happened to him .	我不知道他發生了什麼事 。
so that's why i decided to tell my story , so that my suffering is something positive for other women .	這就是為什麼我決定說我的故事 , 所以我的痛苦對其他女性來說是正面的 。
for all the women , all the mothers that give life , you can give back , you can change .	對所有女性來說 , 所有給予生命的母親 , 你可以回饋 , 你可以改變 。
it's up to us women , because we are women , because we love our children .	由於我們女性 , 因為我們是女性 , 因為我們愛我們的孩子 。
we must be handinhand and do something together .	我們必須是手持人 , 一起做點什麼 。
it's not against women , it's for us , for us women , for our children .	不是對女人 , 而是對我們、對我們女人、對我們的孩子 。
i talk against violence , against terrorism .	我反對暴力 , 反對恐怖主義 。
i go to schools to talk to young , muslim girls so they don't accept to be married against their will very young .	我去學校跟年輕的穆斯林女孩說話 , 這樣她們就不接受嫁給她們的意願還很年輕 。
so if i can save one of the young girls , and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as i did , well this is something good .	所以 , 如果我能拯救其中一位年輕女孩 , 避免他們結婚和受苦 , 這樣就好了 。
this is why i'm here in front of you .	這就是為什麼我站在你們面前 。
pr: i would like to say that i have learned so much from aicha , starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members which was a very private meeting with security , because it was november 2002 , and , frankly , we were afraid of the superpatriotism of that time in the country those of us family members .	帕特.羅斯:我想說我從阿里卡學到很多 , 從那天開始 , 我們第一次見到其他家庭成員 , 那是個非常私人的會議 , 因為那是2002年11月 , 坦白說 , 我們害怕當時在這個國家的超級病菌 。
but we were all so nervous .	但我們都很緊張 。
" why does she want to meet us ? "	「 她為什麼要和我們見面 ? 」
and then she was nervous .	然後她又緊張了 。
" why did we want to meet her ? "	「 我們為什麼要見她 ? 」
what did we want from each other ?	我們彼此想要什麼 ?
before we knew each others' names , or anything , we had embraced and wept .	在我們了解彼此的名字之前 , 或任何東西之前 , 我們都擁抱了和哭泣 。
then we sat in a circle with support , with help , from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation .	然後我們就坐在一個有幫助的圈子裡 , 從人們的這種和解的圈子裡 。
and aicha started , and she said , " i don't know if my son is guilty or innocent , but i want to tell you how sorry i am for what happened to your families .	aicha開始 , 她說: 「 我不知道我的兒子有沒有罪惡感或無辜 , 但我想告訴各位 , 我對你的家人有多抱歉 。
i know what it is to suffer , and i feel that if there is a crime , a person should be tried fairly and punished . "	我知道這對苦難是什麼 , 我覺得如果有犯罪 , 一個人應該被公平審判 , 被懲罰 。 」
but she reached out to us in that way , and it was , i'd like to say , it was an icebreaker .	但她以這種方式向我們伸出援手 , 我想說的是 , 這是個冰箱 。
and what happened then is we all told our stories , and we all connected as human beings .	接下來發生的是 , 我們都說了我們的故事 , 我們都以人類的身分連結起來 。
by the end of the afternoon it was about three hours after lunch we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever .	下午結束時 , 午餐後大約有三小時 , 我們會感覺到我們永遠都知道彼此 。
now what i learned from her , is a woman , not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then , and what was being done to her son , but the life she's had .	我從她身上學到的是 , 一個女人 , 不僅可以在這些當下的情況下如此慷慨 , 還有她兒子做了什麼 , 她的人生也一樣 。
i never had met someone with such a hard life , from such a totally different culture and environment from my own .	我從來沒有遇過過這種艱難生活的人 , 來自完全不同的文化和環境 。
and i feel that we have a special connection , which i value very much .	我覺得我們有一種特殊的連結 , 我非常重視它 。
and i think it's all about being afraid of the other , but making that step and then realizing , " hey , this wasn't so hard .	我認為這一切都是為了害怕他人 , 但要踏出那一步 , 然後意識到: 「 嘿 , 這不是那麼難 。
who else can i meet that i don't know , or that i'm so different from ? "	我還有誰可以碰到我不知道 , 還是和我這麼不同 ? 」
so , aicha , do you have a couple of words for conclusion ?	所以 , 亞克哈 , 你有幾個字要結論嗎 ?
because our time is up .	因為我們的時間到了 。
aw: i wanted to say that we have to try to know other people , the other .	aw:我想說 , 我們得要試著認識其他人 。
you have to be generous , and your hearts must be generous , your mind must be generous .	你必須要慷慨大方 , 你的心一定是慷慨的 , 你的腦袋一定是慷慨的 。
you must be tolerant .	你一定是包容的 。
you have to fight against violence .	你必須對抗暴力 。
and i hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other .	我希望有一天我們會一起生活在和平中 , 尊重彼此 。
this is what i wanted to say .	這是我想要說的 。
too much of the world lacks access to clean drinking water . engineer michael pritchard did something about it inventing the portable lifesaver filter , which can make the most revolting water drinkable in seconds . an amazing demo from tedglobal 2009 .	太多世界都缺乏乾淨的飲用水 。 工程師michaelpritchard做了一件事情 , 發明可攜式的救生水過濾器 , 幾秒鐘可以讓tedglobal飲用水變成2009年 。
business , demo , design , global issues , invention , technology , water	商業、展示、設計、全球議題、發明、技術、水資源、水資源、
michael pritchard's water filter turns filthy water drinkable	michaelpritchard的水過濾器會轉向過濾水 , 飲用不可思議的飲用水 。
i'd like to talk about a couple of things today .	今天我想談談幾件事情 。
the first thing is water .	首先是水 。
now i see you've all been enjoying the water that's been provided for you here at the conference , over the past couple of days .	現在我看到你們都很享受在研討會上提供的水 , 在過去的幾天裡 。
and i'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source .	我相信你們會覺得這是從安全來源來的 。
but what if it wasn't ?	但如果不是這樣呢 ?
what if it was from a source like this ?	如果它是來自這樣的源頭呢 ?
then statistics would actually say that half of you would now be suffering with diarrhea .	然後統計數字會說 , 你們當中有一半的人會受腹瀉所苦 。
i talked a lot in the past about statistics , and the provision of safe drinking water for all .	過去我談了很多關於統計 , 以及為所有人提供安全飲用水的代價 。
but they just don't seem to get through .	但他們似乎沒有經歷過 。
and i think i've worked out why .	我想我已經搞清楚為什麼了 。
it's because , using current thinking , the scale of the problem just seems too huge to contemplate solving .	因為 , 用當前的思考 , 問題的規模似乎太大了 , 無法去思考解決問題 。
so we just switch off: us , governments and aid agencies .	所以我們就關掉了:我們、政府和援助機構 。
well , today , i'd like to show you that through thinking differently , the problem has been solved .	今天 , 我想用不同的思維來展示 , 問題已經解決了 。
by the way , since i've been speaking , another 13 , 000 people around the world are suffering now with diarrhea .	順道一提 , 從我開始講話 , 世界各地有一萬三千人現在都患有腹瀉 。
and four children have just died .	四個孩子剛死了 。
i invented lifesaver bottle because i got angry .	我發明了救生員瓶 , 因為我生氣了 。
i , like most of you , was sitting down , the day after christmas in 2004 , when i was watching the devastating news of the asian tsunami as it rolled in , playing out on tv .	我和大多數人一樣 , 在2004年聖誕節後的那天 , 當我在看亞洲海嘯摧殘的消息時 , 在電視上演 。
the days and weeks that followed , people fleeing to the hills , being forced to drink contaminated water or face death .	接下來的幾天、幾週 , 人們逃到山丘 , 被迫喝污染的水或面臨死亡 。
that really stuck with me .	這真的困擾著我 。
then , a few months later , hurricane katrina slammed into the side of america .	接著 , 幾個月後 , 卡崔娜颶風卡崔娜陷入美國的一側 。
" okay , " i thought , " here's a first world country , let's see what they can do . "	「 好吧 ! 」 我心想: 「 這是第一個世界國家 , 我們來看看他們能做什麼 。 」
do you know it took five days to get water to the superdome ?	你知道要花五天才能把水送到超級大眾嗎 ?
people were shooting each other on the streets for tv sets and water .	人們在街上互相槍擊 , 拍攝電視機和水 。
that's when i decided i had to do something .	那是我決定要做點什麼的時候 。
now i spent a lot of time in my garage , over the next weeks and months , and also in my kitchen much to the dismay of my wife .	現在我花了很多時間在我的車庫 , 接下來的幾個月 , 在我的廚房裡 , 和我太太的不滿 。
however , after a few failed prototypes , i finally came up with this , the lifesaver bottle .	然而 , 經過幾次失敗的原型之後 , 我終於想出了這個 , 救生員瓶 。
okay , now for the science bit .	好吧 , 現在是科學的一部分 。
before lifesaver , the best hand filters were only capable of filtering down to about 200 nanometers .	在救生人員之前 , 最好的手只能過濾到大約200奈米 。
the smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers .	最小的細菌大約是200奈米 。
so a 200nanometer bacteria is going to get through a 200nanometer hole .	所以 , 一個200奈米的細菌將會穿過一個200奈米的洞 。
the smallest virus , on the other hand , is about 25 nanometers .	另一方面 , 最小的病毒大約是25奈米 。
so that's definitely going to get through those 200 nanometer holes .	所以這肯定會通過那200奈米的洞 。
lifesaver pores are 15 nanometers .	救生員有15奈米 。
so nothing is getting through .	所以 , 什麼都沒有穿過 。
okay , i'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration .	好 , 我要給你們一些示範 。
would you like to see that ?	你會想看到這個嗎 ?
i spent all the time setting this up , so i guess i should .	我花了很多時間設定它 , 所以我猜我應該這樣做 。
we're in the fine city of oxford .	我們在牛津的美好城市 。
so someone's done that up .	所以 , 有人完成了這個任務 。
fine city of oxford , so what i've done is i've gone and got some water from the river cherwell , and the river thames , that flow through here . and this is the water .	美好的牛津城 , 所以我做的是 , 我已經從河流cherwell找到一些水 , 河流流過這裡 , 這是水 。
but i got to thinking , you know , if we were in the middle of a flood zone in bangladesh , the water wouldn't look like this .	但我想 , 如果我們在孟加拉的洪水區中央 , 水就不會像這樣 。
so i've gone and got some stuff to add into it .	所以 , 我已經把一些東西加進去了 。
and this is from my pond .	這是我的池塘 。
have a smell of that , mister cameraman .	聞聞一下 , 攝影師 。
we're just going to pour that in there .	我們只想把它倒進去 。
michael pritchard: okay . we've got some runoff from a sewage plant farm .	michaelpritchard:好的 , 我們有一些從污水農場跑出來的 。
so i'm just going to put that in there .	所以我要把它放進去 。
put that in there . there we go .	把它放進去 , 開始 。
and some other bits and pieces , chuck that in there .	還有一些碎片和碎片 , 把它黏在裡面 。
and i've got a gift here from a friend of mine's rabbit .	我有一份禮物 , 來自我的朋友的兔子 。
so we're just going to put that in there as well .	我們也要把它放進去 。
the lifesaver bottle works really simply .	生命安全的瓶子很簡單
you just scoop the water up .	你只能把水吸起來 。
today i'm going to use a jug just to show you all . let's get a bit of that poo in there .	今天我要用jug來展示給大家看 。 讓我們把那根糞便放進去 。
that's not dirty enough . let's just stir that up a little bit .	這還不夠髒 , 讓我們稍微攪拌一下 。
okay , so i'm going to take this really filthy water , and put it in here . do you want a drink yet ?	好 , 我要把這個非常骯髒的水放進這裡 , 你還想喝一杯嗎 ?
okay . there we go .	好了 , 開始了 。
give it a few pumps . okay ?	給你幾個幫浦 。 好嗎 ?
that's all that's necessary .	這些都是必要的 。
now as soon as i pop the teat , sterile drinking water is going to come out .	一旦我放棄了茶葉 , 無菌飲用水就會出現 。
i've got to be quick . okay , ready ?	我得很快 。 好 , 準備好了嗎 ?
there we go . mind the electrics .	來吧 ! 注意電力 。
that is safe , sterile drinking water .	那是安全、無菌飲用水 。
there you go chris .	來吧 , 克里斯
what's it taste of ?	它的味道是什麼 ?
let's see chris's program throughout the rest of the show . okay ?	我們來看看克里斯的節目 , 接下來的節目 。 好嗎 ?
okay . lifesaver bottle is used by thousands of people around the world .	好 , 世界上數以千計的人都用過生命安全的瓶子 。
it'll last for 6 , 000 liters .	它會維持6 , 000公升 。
and when it's expired , using failsafe technology , the system will shut off , protecting the user .	當它爆發時 , 使用失敗的技術 , 系統就會關閉 , 保護使用者 。
pop the cartridge out . pop a new one in .	把車子拿出來 , 打開一個新的 。
it's good for another 6 , 000 liters .	這對六千公升有益 。
so let's look at the applications .	讓我們來看看這個應用程式 。
traditionally , in a crisis , what do we do ?	傳統上 , 在危機中 , 我們該怎麼做 ?
then , after a few weeks , we set up camps .	幾週後 , 我們設立營地 。
and people are forced to come into the camps to get their safe drinking water .	人們被迫進入難民營 , 得到安全的飲用水 。
what happens when 20 , 000 people congregate in a camp ?	當兩萬人聚集在難民營時 , 會發生什麼事 ?
diseases spread . more resources are required .	疾病傳播 , 需要更多的資源 。
the problem just becomes selfperpetuating .	問題就在於自我複製 。
but by thinking differently , and shipping these , people can stay put .	但用不同的方式思考 , 運送這些東西 , 人們可以留下來 。
they can make their own sterile drinking water , and start to get on with rebuilding their homes and their lives .	他們可以製造自己的無菌飲用水 , 開始重建他們的家園和生活 。
now , it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work .	這樣做並不需要天然的災難 。
using the old thinking , of national infrastructure and pipe work , is too expensive .	使用舊的想法 , 國家基礎建設和管道工作 , 太貴了 。
when you run the numbers on a calculator , you run out of noughts .	當你在計算機上計算時 , 你就沒辦法搞定了 。
so here is the " thinking different " bit .	這是 「 思考 」 的部分 。
instead of shipping water , and using manmade processes to do it , let's use mother nature . she's got a fantastic system .	不用運送水 , 用人造的過程來做 , 讓我們用大自然 。 她有一個很棒的系統 。
she picks the water up from there , desalinates it , for free , transports it over there , and dumps it onto the mountains , rivers , and streams .	她從那裡撿起水 , 免費 , 運送到那裡 , 然後把它丟到山上、河流和溪流上 。
and where do people live ? near water .	人們住在哪裡 ? 靠近水 。
all we've go to do is make it sterile . how do we do that ?	我們要做的就是讓它無菌 。 我們要怎麼做呢 ?
well , we could use the lifesaver bottle .	嗯 , 我們可以用救生員的瓶子 。
or we could use one of these .	或者 , 我們可以使用其中一個 。
the same technology , in a jerry can .	同樣的技術 , 可以用在機械裝置上 。
this will process 25 , 000 liters of water ; that's good enough for a family of four , for three years .	這會處理2萬5千公升的水 , 這足以容納四個家庭 , 三年來 。
and how much does it cost ?	要花多少錢 ?
about half a cent a day to run .	每天大約有半分錢來跑 。
so , by thinking differently , and processing water at the point of use , mothers and children no longer have to walk four hours a day to collect their water .	所以 , 用不同的方式思考 , 用水處理 , 母親和孩子們不再需要每天四個小時來收集他們的水 。
they can get it from a source nearby .	他們可以從附近的來源取得它 。
so with just eight billion dollars , we can hit the millennium goal's target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water .	所以只要花了八十億美金 , 我們就能達到千禧目標的目標 , 來減少減少沒有安全飲用水的人數 。
to put that into context , the u . k . government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid .	若要將它放入情境中 , 英國政府每年花費大約一百二十億英鎊在外國援助上 。
but why stop there ?	但為什麼就這樣停下來 ?
with 20 billion dollars , everyone can have access to safe drinking water .	有了兩百億美金 , 每個人都可以取得安全飲用水 。
so the threeandahalf billion people that suffer every year as a result , and the two million kids that die every year , will live .	所以 , 每年有三十五億人因為結果而遭受痛苦 , 而每年死亡的兩百萬個孩子 , 將會活下來 。
paddy ashdown claims that we are living in a moment in history where power is changing in ways it never has before . in a spellbinding talk at tedxbrussels he outlines the three major global shifts that he sees coming .	帕迪•阿希德宣稱我們生活在歷史上的一個時刻 , 權力正在改變它以前從未有過的方式 。 在tedxbrusel的一個拼字演說中 , 他排出了他所看到的三大全球轉變 。
foreign policy , global issues , politics , world cultures	外交政策、全球議題、政治、世界文化、文化 。
paddy ashdown: the global power shift	帕迪•阿什德市:全球的權力轉移 。
there's a poem written by a very famous english poet at the end of the 19th century .	在十九世紀末 , 一首非常有名的英國詩人寫了一首詩 。
it was said to echo in churchill's brain in the 1930s .	在1930年代 , 古希爾的大腦中 , 有人說是回應 。
and the poem goes: " on the idle hill of summer , lazy with the flow of streams , hark i hear a distant drummer , drumming like a sound in dreams , far and near and low and louder on the roads of earth go by , dear to friend and food to powder , soldiers marching , soon to die . "	詩歌說: 「 在夏天的山丘上 , 帶著溪流的流動 , 哈馬克 , 我聽見一個遙遠的鼓聲 , 像在夢裡的聲音 , 距離很近 , 很近 , 很近 , 很低 , 很親愛的朋友和食物傳給粉末 , 士兵很快就死了 。 」
those who are interested in poetry , the poem is " a shropshire lad " written by a . e . housman .	那些對詩意感興趣的人 , 詩是《鯊魚鯊》由艾倫斯曼寫的 。
but what housman understood , and you hear it in the symphonies of nielsen too , was that the long , hot , silvan summers of stability of the 19th century were coming to a close , and that we were about to move into one of those terrifying periods of history when power changes .	但霍斯曼也明白了 , 在尼爾森的交響曲中也聽到了它 , 就是在十九世紀的穩定性夏季即將接近近 , 而我們即將進入歷史中最恐怖的時期之一 , 當權力改變時 。
and these are always periods , ladies and gentlemen , accompanied by turbulence , and all too often by blood .	女士們先生們 , 這些經常是亂流的時期 , 經常是血液 。
and my message for you is that i believe we are condemned , if you like , to live at just one of those moments in history when the gimbals upon which the established order of power is beginning to change and the new look of the world , the new powers that exist in the world , are beginning to take form .	我給你們的訊息是 , 我相信我們是被譴責的 , 假如你喜歡 , 生活在歷史上的那些瞬間 , 當建立權力的秩序開始改變和新的看待世界 , 存在著新的權力 , 開始形成形式 。
and these are and we see it very clearly today nearly always highly turbulent times , highly difficult times , and all too often very bloody times .	今天我們很清楚地看到它 , 幾乎永遠都是亂亂的時代 , 極度困難的時代 , 經常是非常血腥的時代 。
by the way , it happens about once every century .	順道一提 , 它每世紀都會發生一次 。
you might argue that the last time it happened and that's what housman felt coming and what churchill felt too was that when power passed from the old nations , the old powers of europe , across the atlantic to the new emerging power of the united states of america the beginning of the american century .	你可能認為 , 最後一次發生 , 那就是霍斯曼的感受 , 和教堂的感受 , 就是當權力從舊的國家、歐洲的舊勢力 , 跨過大西洋到美國的新興權力 , 美國是美國一世紀初期 。
and of course , into the vacuum where the tooold european powers used to be were played the two bloody catastrophes of the last century the one in the first part and the one in the second part: the two great world wars .	當然 , 在真空之中 , 歐洲人曾經有過太多權力在上個世紀的兩場血腥災難中 , 第一部分也是第二部分:兩場大戰 。
mao zedong used to refer to them as the european civil wars , and it's probably a more accurate way of describing them .	毛澤東曾經稱他們為歐洲內戰 , 它可能是更精確的描述方式 。
well , ladies and gentlemen , we live at one of those times .	各位先生女士 , 我們住在其中一個時代 。
but for us , i want to talk about three factors today .	但對我們來說 , 我今天想談三個因素 。
and the first of these , the first two of these , is about a shift in power .	首先 , 這裡的前兩個是權力的轉變 。
and the second is about some new dimension which i want to refer to , which has never quite happened in the way it's happening now .	第二個是關於新的維度 , 我想要指的是 , 它從來沒有發生過 。
but let's talk about the shifts of power that are occurring to the world .	但 , 讓我們來談談權力的轉變 , 會發生在世界上 。
and what is happening today is , in one sense , frightening because it's never happened before .	今天發生的事是 , 在某種意義上 , 恐怖 , 因為它從來沒有發生過 。
we have seen lateral shifts of power the power of greece passed to rome and the power shifts that occurred during the european civilizations but we are seeing something slightly different .	我們已經看到了權力轉變了希臘傳往羅馬的力量以及在歐洲文明中發生的權力轉變 , 但我們看到了有點不同的東西 。
for power is not just moving laterally from nation to nation .	權力不僅僅是從國家移到國家 。
it's also moving vertically .	它也垂直移動 。
what's happening today is that the power that was encased , held to accountability , held to the rule of law , within the institution of the nation state has now migrated in very large measure onto the global stage .	今天正在發生的是 , 被監禁的權力 , 被責任的權力 , 被限制在法律的制度中 , 在這個國家的制度已經被移民到全球舞台上 。
the globalization of power we talk about the globalization of markets , but actually it's the globalization of real power .	我們談到全球化市場的全球化 , 但它其實是全球化的權力 。
and where , at the nation state level that power is held to accountability subject to the rule of law , on the international stage it is not .	在國家層面上 , 權力是指責法規的 , 在國際舞台上 , 權力是指責的 。
the international stage and the global stage where power now resides: the power of the internet , the power of the satellite broadcasters , the power of the money changers this vast moneygoround that circulates now 32 times the amount of money necessary for the trade it's supposed to be there to finance the money changers , if you like , the financial speculators that have brought us all to our knees quite recently , the power of the multinational corporations now developing budgets often bigger than mediumsized countries .	國際舞台和全球的權力現在還在國際舞台上:網際網路的力量、衛星廣播的力量、金錢的力量改變了這個巨大的金錢包圍著交易所需的金錢 , 應該是財務改變者 , 如你所說的 , 金錢的權力、金融顧問帶給我們所有人 , 最近 , 跨國企業企業的權力 , 經費者 , 經費大於發展中國家的金融 。
these live in a global space which is largely unregulated , not subject to the rule of law , and in which people may act free of constraint .	這些人生活在一個極為不規則的全球空間裡 , 而不是對法律規則的主題 , 人們可能會不受限制 。
now that suits the powerful up to a moment .	此時此刻 , 此時此刻 , 強而有力 。
it's always suitable for those who have the most power to operate in spaces without constraint , but the lesson of history is that , sooner or later , unregulated space space not subject to the rule of law becomes populated , not just by the things you wanted international trade , the internet , etc . but also by the things you don't want international criminality , international terrorism .	對於那些擁有最大權力的人來說 , 總是適合在空間中運作的人 , 沒有限制 , 但歷史的教訓是 , 更早或更晚 , 沒有規則的空間 , 不單單單是那些你想要的國際貿易、網路等等 。 還有你不想要的事物 , 國際犯罪、國際恐怖主義 。
the revelation of 9/11 is that even if you are the most powerful nation on earth , nevertheless , those who inhabit that space can attack you even in your most iconic of cities one bright september morning .	9/11的揭示是 , 即使你是地球上最強大的國家 , 儘管如此 , 居住的居民 , 那些空間可以攻擊你 , 甚至在你最明亮的城市之一早上 。
it's said that something like 60 percent of the four million dollars that was taken to fund 9/11 actually passed through the institutions of the twin towers which 9/11 destroyed .	據說 , 大約有百分之六十四百萬美金被帶到資助911事件中 , 實際上通過雙胞胎塔 , 911事件摧毀了 。
you see , our enemies also use this space the space of mass travel , the internet , satellite broadcasters to be able to get around their poison , which is about destroying our systems and our ways .	我們的敵人也用這個空間 , 大眾旅行、網際網路、衛星廣播機 , 來圍繞它們的毒物 , 這關乎摧毀我們的系統和方法 。
sooner or later , sooner or later , the rule of history is that where power goes governance must follow .	更早或更早 , 歷史的規則是 , 權力的統治必須遵守 。
and if it is therefore the case , as i believe it is , that one of the phenomenon of our time is the globalization of power , then it follows that one of the challenges of our time is to bring governance to the global space .	如果我相信 , 這種情況正是我們這個時代的一個現象就是全球化的力量 , 那麼我們這個時代的其中一個挑戰就是把治理帶到全球空間 。
and i believe that the decades ahead of us now will be to a greater or lesser extent turbulent the more or less we are able to achieve that aim: to bring governance to the global space .	我相信 , 數十年來 , 我們現在將會成為更大或更少的混亂 , 我們能達成這個目標:將治理帶給全球空間 。
now notice , i'm not talking about government .	請注意 , 我不是在談政府 。
i'm not talking about setting up some global democratic institution .	我不是在說要建立一些全球民主制度 。
my own view , by the way , ladies and gentlemen , is that this is unlikely to be done by spawning more u . n . institutions .	順道一提 , 女士們先生們 , 我自己看來 , 不太可能是藉由產出更多聯合國機構來完成的 。
if we didn't have the u . n . , we'd have to invent it .	如果我們沒有聯合國 , 我們就得發明它 。
the world needs an international forum .	世界需要一個國際論壇 。
it needs a means by which you can legitimize international action .	它需要一個可以合法化國際行動的手段 。
but when it comes to governance of the global space , my guess is this won't happen through the creation of more u . n . institutions .	但當談到全球治理時 , 我猜這不會發生在聯合國創立更多聯合國機構裡 。
it will actually happen by the powerful coming together and making treatybased systems , treatybased agreements , to govern that global space .	它會發生 , 由強而有力的結合 , 創造出以治療為基礎的系統 , 協議 , 來管理這個全球空間 。
and if you look , you can see them happening , already beginning to emerge .	如果你看 , 你可以看到它們正在發生 , 已經開始出現了 。
the world trade organization: treatybased organization , entirely treatybased , and yet , powerful enough to hold even the most powerful , the united states , to account if necessary .	世界貿易組織: 「 條約組織 」 、 「 條約 」 、 「 條約性的組織 , 但 , 強大到足以支撐最強大的美國 , 如果必要的話 。
kyoto: the beginnings of struggling to create a treatybased organization .	kyoto:掙扎的開端 , 創造出以約定為基礎的組織 。
the g20: we know now that we have to put together an institution which is capable of bringing governance to that financial space for financial speculation .	g20:我們現在知道 , 我們得要建立一個機構 , 能夠把治理帶到金融空間中 , 來推動金融推測 。
and that's what the g20 is , a treatybased institution .	而g20就是g20所謂的 「 條約 」 機構 。
now there's a problem there , and we'll come back to it in a minute , which is that if you bring the most powerful together to make the rules in treatybased institutions , to fill that governance space , then what happens to the weak who are left out ?	現在有一個問題 , 我們等一下再回來談一下 , 如果你把最強大的組織集合起來 , 來制定以 「 條約為基礎的機構 」 規則 , 來填補治理空間 , 那會發生什麼事 ?
and that's a big problem , and we'll return to it in just a second .	那是個大問題 , 我們等一下再回來 。
so there's my first message , that if you are to pass through these turbulent times more or less turbulently , then our success in doing that will in large measure depend on our capacity to bring sensible governance to the global space .	所以 , 我的第一個訊息是如果你多花點時間通過這些亂流 , 那麼我們的成功會取決於我們的大量的治理能力 , 取決於我們能把合理的治理能力帶到全球 。
and watch that beginning to happen .	看著這一切開始發生 。
my second point is , and i know i don't have to talk to an audience like this about such a thing , but power is not just shifting vertically , it's also shifting horizontally .	我的第二個重點是 , 我知道我不需要跟這樣的觀眾談談這種事 , 但權力不僅僅是垂直的轉變 , 也是橫向的轉變 。
you might argue that the story , the history of civilizations , has been civilizations gathered around seas with the first ones around the mediterranean , the more recent ones in the ascendents of western power around the atlantic .	你可能會認為 , 關於文明歷史 , 文明歷史 , 一直在海洋中聚集的文明 , 和地中海最早的文明 , 西方的權力越近期 。
well it seems to me that we're now seeing a fundamental shift of power , broadly speaking , away from nations gathered around the atlantic [seaboard] to the nations gathered around the pacific rim .	在我看來 , 我們現在看到的是權力的基本轉變 , 廣泛地說 , 遠離大西洋的國家 , 到太平洋的國家聚集在一起 。
now that begins with economic power , but that's the way it always begins .	這就從經濟力量開始了 , 但這也是它始終的開始 。
you already begin to see the development of foreign policies , the augmentation of military budgets occurring in the other growing powers in the world .	你已經開始看到外交政策的發展 , 軍事預算的擴增 , 發生在世界上其他種植的權力中 。
i think actually this is not so much a shift from the west to the east ; something different is happening .	我認為這不是從西方移轉到東方 , 有些不同的事情正在發生 。
my guess is , for what it's worth , is that the united states will remain the most powerful nation on earth for the next 10 years , 15 , but the context in which she holds her power has now radically altered ; it has radically changed .	我的猜測是 , 為了值得的 , 美國在未來的十年 , 將會保有最強大的國家 , 但她擁有的權力現在已經徹底改變了 ; 它已經徹底地改變了 。
we are coming out of 50 years , most unusual years , of history in which we have had a totally monopolar world , in which every compass needle for or against has to be referenced by its position to washington a world bestrode by a single colossus .	我們在五十年後 , 最不尋常的歷史中 , 我們有一個完全不道德的世界 , 在這個世界中 , 每一根羅盤都必須被華盛頓所羅德的稱呼所指出 , 一個單一的大腸評估 。
but that's not a usual case in history .	但這不是歷史上常見的情況 。
in fact , what's now emerging is the much more normal case of history .	事實上 , 現在出現的是更正常的歷史 。
you're beginning to see the emergence of a multipolar world .	你開始看到多極端世界的出現 。
up until now , the united states has been the dominant feature of our world .	到目前為止 , 美國是我們的世界主流特徵 。
they will remain the most powerful nation , but they will be the most powerful nation in an increasingly multipolar world .	他們會維持最強大的國家 , 但他們將會是世界上越來越多極端國家最強大的國家 。
and you begin to see the alternative centers of power building up in china , of course , though my own guess is that china's ascent to greatness is not smooth .	你開始看到中國的另一種權力中心 , 當然 , 我的猜測是 , 中國的優秀性不是平滑的 。
it's going to be quite grumpy as china begins to democratize her society after liberalizing her economy .	當中國開始將她的社會民主化 , 在解放她的經濟之後 , 將會很糟糕 。
but that's a subject of a different discussion .	但這是一個不同的討論題目 。
you see india , you see brazil .	你看到印度 , 你看到巴西 。
you see increasingly that the world now looks actually , for us europeans , much more like europe in the 19th century .	你可以看到 , 越來越多的世界看起來 , 對我們歐洲人來說 , 比較像19世紀的歐洲人 。
europe in the 19th century: a great british foreign secretary , lord canning , used to describe it as the " european concert of powers . "	歐洲在十九世紀:一個偉大的英國外交部秘書 , 名稱是 「 歐洲的權力協議 」 。
there was a balance , a fivesided balance .	有一個平衡 , 一個五邊平衡 。
britain always played to the balance .	英國一直都在平衡中 。
if paris got together with berlin , britain got together with vienna and rome to provide a counterbalance .	如果巴黎和柏林合作 , 英國與維也納和羅馬結合 , 提供一個反對的平衡 。
now notice , in a period which is dominated by a monopolar world , you have fixed alliances nato , the warsaw pact .	請注意 , 在一個由獨立世界主導的時期 , 你有固定的盟國領袖 , 華沙特 。
a fixed polarity of power means fixed alliances .	固定的權力是固定的聯盟 。
but a multiple polarity of power means shifting and changing alliances .	但多個權力意味著移轉和改變聯盟 。
and that's the world we're coming into , in which we will increasingly see that our alliances are not fixed .	那就是我們要進入的世界 , 我們會逐漸看到我們的聯盟並不固定 。
canning , the great british foreign secretary once said , " britain has a common interest , but no common allies . "	偉大的英國外交秘書曾說過: 「 英國有共同的利益 , 但沒有共通的盟友 。 」
and we will see increasingly that even we in the west will reach out , have to reach out , beyond the cozy circle of the atlantic powers to make alliances with others if we want to get things done in the world .	我們會看到 , 即使我們西方也能向外伸出援手 , 超越大西洋電力的舒適圈 , 來和他人結盟 , 如果我們想把世界做好 。
note , that when we went into libya , it was not good enough for the west to do it alone ; we had to bring others in .	請注意 , 當我們走進利比亞時 , 西方國家不夠好 ; 我們得把他人帶進去 。
we had to bring , in this case , the arab league in .	在這個案例中 , 我們必須引進阿拉伯聯盟 。
my guess is iraq and afghanistan are the last times when the west has tried to do it themselves , and we haven't succeeded .	我的猜測是伊拉克和阿富汗最後一次 , 西方試圖自己做這件事 , 我們還沒成功 。
my guess is that we're reaching the beginning of the end of 400 years i say 400 years because it's the end of the ottoman empire of the hegemony of western power , western institutions and western values .	我的猜測是400年後 , 我說是400年之初 , 因為它是西方權力的終點 , 西方制度和西方價值觀的末端 。
you know , up until now , if the west got its act together , it could propose and dispose in every corner of the world .	你知道 , 直到現在 , 如果西方國家能一起行動 , 它可以在世界各個角落提出建議和用途 。
but that's no longer true .	但這已經不是真的了 。
take the last financial crisis after the second world war .	以第二次世界大戰後的金融危機為例 。
the west got together the bretton woods institution , world bank , international monetary fund the problem solved .	西方國家的布雷頓森林機構 , 世界銀行、國際貨幣基金--問題解決了 。
now we have to call in others .	現在我們要打電話給他人 。
now we have to create the g20 .	現在我們必須創造g20 。
now we have to reach beyond the cozy circle of our western friends .	我們必須超越我們西方的舒適圈 。
let me make a prediction for you , which is probably even more startling .	讓我預測一下 , 這可能更令人驚訝 。
i suspect we are now reaching the end of 400 years when western power was enough .	我猜我們現在已經到了400年後 , 西方的權力已經足夠了 。
people say to me , " the chinese , of course , they'll never get themselves involved in peacemaking , multilateral peacemaking around the world . "	人們對我說: 「 中國 , 當然 , 他們永遠不會參與到世界各地的和平、多邊的和平 。 」
oh yes ? why not ?	噢 ? 爲什麽不呢 ?
how many chinese troops are serving under the blue beret , serving under the blue flag , serving under the u . n . command in the world today ?	有多少中國軍隊在藍色貝雷特下服務 , 在藍色旗幟下服務 , 在聯合國指揮下服務 ?
how many americans ? 11 .	有多少美國人 ? 11 。
what is the largest naval contingent tackling the issue of somali pirates ?	索馬利亞海盜最大的海軍如何解決索馬利亞海盜問題 ?
the chinese naval contingent .	中國的海軍陸戰隊 。
of course they are , they are a mercantilist nation .	當然 , 他們是一位超級富豪的國家 。
they want to keep the sea lanes open .	他們想讓海道保持開放 。
increasingly , we are going to have to do business with people with whom we do not share values , but with whom , for the moment , we share common interests .	漸漸地 , 我們要和那些我們不共享價值的人做生意 , 但 , 在此時此刻 , 我們有共同的利益 。
it's a whole new different way of looking at the world that is now emerging .	這是一種全新的看待世界的方式 , 現在正在興起 。
and here's the third factor , which is totally different .	第三個因素 , 完全不同 。
today in our modern world , because of the internet , because of the kinds of things people have been talking about here , everything is connected to everything .	現今在我們的現代世界裡 , 因為網際網路 , 人們一直在談論這些東西 , 所有東西都和所有東西有關 。
we are now interdependent .	我們現在是相互依賴的 。
we are now interlocked , as nations , as individuals , in a way which has never been the case before , never been the case before .	我們現在彼此連結 , 作為國家 , 作為個體 , 在以前從來沒有發生過這種情況下 , 從來沒有發生過 。
the interrelationship of nations , well it's always existed .	國家之間的關聯性 , 總是存在著 。
diplomacy is about managing the interrelationship of nations .	外交的重點是要管理國家之間的關係 。
but now we are intimately locked together .	但現在我們被緊密連結在一起 。
you get swine flu in mexico , it's a problem for charles de gaulle airport 24 hours later .	在墨西哥 , 豬流感是24小時後查爾斯國際安全局在24小時後出現的問題 。
lehman brothers goes down , the whole lot collapses .	雷曼兄弟下降了 , 整個崩潰了 。
there are fires in the steppes of russia , food riots in africa .	在俄羅斯、非洲的糧食暴動中 , 有火災 。
we are all now deeply , deeply , deeply interconnected .	我們現在都深深地相互連結了 。
and what that means is the idea of a nation state acting alone , not connected with others , not working with others , is no longer a viable proposition .	意思是說 , 一個國家獨自執行 , 而非和他人連結 , 不再與他人合作 , 不再是可行的提議 。
because the actions of a nation state are neither confined to itself , nor is it sufficient for the nation state itself to control its own territory , because the effects outside the nation state are now beginning to affect what happens inside them .	因為一個國家的行動 , 不是因為它本身 , 也不足以控制它自己的國度 , 因為在國外的影響已經開始影響它們的內部 。
i was a young soldier in the last of the small empire wars of britain .	我是英國最後一名年輕的軍人 。
at that time , the defense of my country was about one thing and one thing only: how strong was our army , how strong was our air force , how strong was our navy and how strong were our allies .	那時 , 我的國家辯護的重點是一件事 , 只有一件事:我們的軍隊有多強 , 我們的空軍有多強 , 我們的海軍有多強 , 我們的盟友有多強 。
that was when the enemy was outside the walls .	那是在牆外的敵人 。
now the enemy is inside the walls .	敵人在牆壁內 。
now if i want to talk about the defense of my country , i have to speak to the minister of health because pandemic disease is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of agriculture because food security is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of industry because the fragility of our hitech infrastructure is now a point of attack for our enemies as we see from cyber warfare i have to speak to the minister of home affairs because who has entered my country , who lives in that terraced house in that inner city has a direct effect on what happens in my country as we in london saw in the 7/7 bombings .	現在 , 如果我想要談我的國家防禦 , 我得要和健康部談談 , 因為流行病對我的安全有威脅 , 我得要和農業部談談 , 因為糧食安全對我安全的威脅 , 我得要和產業部談談 , 因為我們的希臘基礎設施的脆弱 , 是我們的敵人 , 來對我們的敵人 , 來談談到我們在網路戰爭中所造成的衝擊 , 我得要和國內部的人談談 , 因爲我們國內的主流感 , 因爲我們已經失去了7個居家 。
it's no longer the case that the security of a country is simply a matter for its soldiers and its ministry of defense .	國家的安全性不再是對軍人和國防方面的重要性 。
it's its capacity to lock together its institutions .	它能夠把制度鎖在一起 。
and this tells you something very important .	這告訴各位一件非常重要的事 。
it tells you that , in fact , our governments , vertically constructed , constructed on the economic model of the industrial revolution vertical hierarchy , specialization of tasks , command structures have got the wrong structures completely .	它告訴你 , 事實上 , 我們的政府 , 垂直建構 , 建立在工業革命的經濟模式上 , 垂直階級制度 , 任務、指令結構完全錯誤的結構 。
you in business know that the paradigm structure of our time , ladies and gentlemen , is the network .	在商業界你知道我們這個時代的典範結構 , 女士們先生們 , 就是網路 。
it's your capacity to network that matters , both within your governments and externally .	這是你對網絡很重要的能力 , 無論在你的政府或外部都很重要 。
so here is ashdown's third law .	這是ashdown的第三個法則 。
by the way , don't ask me about ashdown's first law and second law because i haven't invented those yet ; it always sounds better if there's a third law , doesn't it ?	順便一提 , 不要問阿什德市第一定律和第二定律 , 因為我還沒發明過 ; 若有第三條法則 , 聽起來會比較好嗎 ?
ashdown's third law is that in the modern age , where everything is connected to everything , the most important thing about what you can do is what you can do with others .	ashdown的第三個法則是 , 在現代 , 一切都與一切相關 , 最重要的是你能做的事 , 就是你能和他人做的事 。
the most important bit about your structure whether you're a government , whether you're an army regiment , whether you're a business is your docking points , your interconnectors , your capacity to network with others .	不論你是政府 , 不論你是軍隊註冊 , 不論你是生意是你的點 , 你的國際指標 , 你和他人建立連結的能力 。
you understand that in industry ; governments don't .	你明白這一點 , 在工業界 , 政府不懂 。
but now one final thing .	但最後一件事 。
if it is the case , ladies and gentlemen and it is that we are now locked together in a way that has never been quite the same before , then it's also the case that we share a destiny with each other .	如果是這樣的 , 各位先生女士們 , 是我們現在被鎖在一個從未相同的方式上 , 那也是我們彼此共同命運的案例 。
suddenly and for the very first time , collective defense , the thing that has dominated us as the concept of securing our nations , is no longer enough .	突然間 , 第一次 , 集體的防禦 , 把我們當作安全的概念 , 不再足夠 。
it used to be the case that if my tribe was more powerful than their tribe , i was safe ; if my country was more powerful than their country , i was safe ; my alliance , like nato , was more powerful than their alliance , i was safe .	以前 , 如果我的部落比他們的部落更強大 , 我是安全的 ; 如果我的國家比他們的國家強大 , 我是安全的 ; 我的盟國 , 像娜塔 , 比他們的盟友更強大 , 我是安全的 。
it is no longer the case .	不再是這樣 。
the advent of the interconnectedness and of the weapons of mass destruction means that , increasingly , i share a destiny with my enemy .	大規模毀滅性武器的發生 , 意味著 , 越來越多 , 我和敵人有著共同的命運 。
when i was a diplomat negotiating the disarmament treaties with the soviet union in geneva in the 1970s , we succeeded because we understood we shared a destiny with them .	當我是外交官 , 在1970年代和蘇聯在日內瓦的蘇聯協會談判時 , 我們成功了 , 因為我們了解我們和他們分享命運 。
collective security is not enough .	集體安全不夠 。
peace has come to northern ireland because both sides realized that the zerosum game couldn't work .	和平來到北愛爾蘭 , 因為雙方都了解到 , 零和賽局是行不通的 。
they shared a destiny with their enemies .	他們與敵人分享命運 。
one of the great barriers to peace in the middle east is that both sides , both israel and , i think , the palestinians , do not understand that they share a collective destiny .	中東和平的大阻礙之一 , 是兩方 , 以色列 , 我認為 , 巴勒斯坦人 , 並不知道他們有共同的命運 。
and so suddenly , ladies and gentlemen , what has been the proposition of visionaries and poets down the ages becomes something we have to take seriously as a matter of public policy .	所以 , 各位先生女士們 , 遠見和詩人的主張 , 在這個時代 , 我們必須認真看待公共政策的問題 。
i started with a poem , i'll end with one .	我從一首詩開始 , 以一首詩作結尾 。
the great poem of john donne's .	約翰•唐尼的偉大詩 。
" send not for whom the bell tolls . "	「 請不要送鈴聲給誰 。 」
the poem is called " no man is an island . "	這首詩叫做 「 沒有人是島嶼 」 。
and it goes: " every man's death affected me , for i am involved in mankind , send not to ask for whom the bell tolls , it tolls for thee . "	上面寫著: 「 每個人的死亡都影響著我 , 因為我參與人類 , 不要求鐘聲叫叫誰 , 它會為elle 。 」
for john donne , a recommendation of morality .	對於約翰•唐尼 , 道德建議 。
for us , i think , part of the equation for our survival .	對我們來說 , 我想 , 是我們生存的一部分 。
to find the path to long life and health , dan buettner and team study the world's " blue zones , " communities whose elders live with vim and vigor to recordsetting age . at tedxtc , he shares the 9 common diet and lifestyle habits that keep them spry past age 100 .	為了找到長壽和健康的路徑 , 丹•布特納和團隊研究世界的 「 藍寶區 」 , 那些長者和vim及訪客一起生活的社區 , 在tedxtc上 , 他分享了9種常見的飲食和生活方式習慣 , 讓他們在過去一百歲以上流行 。
biology , culture , exploration , food , health , life , science	生物、文化、探索、食物、健康、科學、科學、科學、科學、生物 。
dan buettner: how to live to be 100+	danbuetner:如何活著成為一百個+百個 。
something called the danish twin study established that only about 10 percent of how long the average person lives , within certain biological limits , is dictated by our genes .	所謂的丹麥雙胞胎研究機構 , 在某些生物限制中 , 只有百分之十的平均壽命 , 由我們的基因決定 。
the other 90 percent is dictated by our lifestyle .	另外90%是由我們的生活方式來決定 。
so the premise of blue zones: if we can find the optimal lifestyle of longevity we can come up with a de facto formula for longevity .	所以藍色區域的前提是:如果我們能找到長壽的最佳生活方式 , 我們就能找到一個長壽的真相公式 。
but if you ask the average american what the optimal formula of longevity is , they probably couldn't tell you .	但如果你問一般美國人 , 長壽的最佳公式是什麼 , 他們可能無法告訴你 。
they've probably heard of the south beach diet , or the atkins diet .	他們可能聽說過南海灘飲食 , 或墨水飲食 。
you have the usda food pyramid .	你有美國食品金字塔 。
there is what oprah tells us .	歐普拉告訴我們什麼 。
there is what doctor oz tells us .	奧茲醫生告訴我們什麼 。
the fact of the matter is there is a lot of confusion around what really helps us live longer better .	事實是 , 對於真正幫助我們活得更久的困惑 , 有很多的困惑 。
should you be running marathons or doing yoga ?	你該跑馬拉松還是做瑜伽嗎 ?
should you eat organic meats or should you be eating tofu ?	你應該要吃有機肉 , 還是要吃豆腐 ?
when it comes to supplements , should you be taking them ?	談到供應 , 你應該帶他們去嗎 ?
how about these hormones or resveratrol ?	荷爾蒙或逆轉荷爾蒙呢 ?
and does purpose play into it ?	目的是要玩嗎 ?
spirituality ? and how about how we socialize ?	靈性 ? 那我們如何社交呢 ?
well , our approach to finding longevity was to team up with national geographic , and the national institute on aging , to find the four demographically confirmed areas that are geographically defined .	我們找到長壽的方法是和國家地理頻道合作 , 國家老化研究所 , 找出四個人口分佈地理定義的區域 。
and then bring a team of experts in there to methodically go through exactly what these people do , to distill down the crosscultural distillation .	接著 , 帶一組專家去處理這些人在做的事 , 去除跨文化的分散 。
and at the end of this i'm going to tell you what that distillation is .	最後 , 我要告訴你們這個幻視是什麼 。
but first i'd like to debunk some common myths when it comes to longevity .	但 , 首先 , 我想在談到長壽時展現一些常見的迷思 。
and the first myth is if you try really hard you can live to be 100 .	第一個迷思是如果你真的努力去活一百歲
the problem is , only about one out of 5 , 000 people in america live to be 100 .	問題是 , 五千人當中只有一人活到一百歲 。
your chances are very low .	你的機率非常低 。
even though it's the fastest growing demographic in america , it's hard to reach 100 .	儘管它是美國成長最快的人口 , 很難達到一百人 。
the problem is that we're not programmed for longevity .	問題是 , 我們不是為了長壽而設計 。
we are programmed for something called procreative success .	我們為 「 繁榮成功 」 程式設計 。
i love that word .	我愛那個詞 。
it reminds me of my college days .	它提醒了我大學的日子 。
biologists term procreative success to mean the age where you have children and then another generation , the age when your children have children .	生物學家稱之為 「 成功 」 , 意思是你有孩子的年齡 , 接著是另一代 , 你的孩子有孩子的年齡 。
after that the effect of evolution completely dissipates .	之後演化的效應完全消失了 。
if you're a mammal , if you're a rat or an elephant , or a human , in between , it's the same story .	如果你是哺乳類 , 如果你是一隻老鼠或一隻大象 , 或在兩者之間 , 相同的故事 。
so to make it to age 100 , you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle , you also have to have won the genetic lottery .	所以要讓它變成一百歲 , 你不只擁有良好的生活方式 , 你還得贏得基因彩票 。
the second myth is , there are treatments that can help slow , reverse , or even stop aging .	第二個迷思是 , 有治療方法可以緩慢、反轉 , 甚至停止老化 。
when you think of it , there is 99 things that can age us .	想想看 , 有99件事情可以讓我們老化 。
deprive your brain of oxygen for just a few minutes , those brain cells die , they never come back .	只要幾分鐘 , 腦細胞就會死亡 , 它們永遠不會回來 。
play tennis too hard , on your knees , ruin your cartilage , the cartilage never comes back .	玩網球太硬 , 在你的膝蓋上 , 你的軟骨 , 軟骨永遠不會回來 。
our arteries can clog . our brains can gunk up with plaque , and we can get alzheimer's .	我們的動脈可以網索 , 我們的大腦可以用斑塊來連接 , 我們就能得到阿茲海默症 。
there is just too many things to go wrong .	有太多事情會出錯 。
our bodies have 35 trillion cells , trillion with a " t . " we're talking national debt numbers here .	我們的身體有35兆個細胞 , 裡面有 「 t 」 。 我們在這裡談的是國家債務數字 。
those cells turn themselves over once every eight years .	這些細胞每八年就會轉動一次 。
and every time they turn themselves over there is some damage . and that damage builds up .	每當他們把自己轉過來 , 就會有一些損害 , 而損害就會增加 。
and it builds up exponentially .	它是以指數型態來建造的 。
it's a little bit like the days when we all had beatles albums or eagles albums and we'd make a copy of that on a cassette tape , and let our friends copy that cassette tape , and pretty soon , with successive generations that tape sounds like garbage .	有點像我們都有披頭四的專輯或老鷹的日子 , 我們會用膠帶做複本 , 讓我們的朋友複製膠帶 , 很快地 , 帶有成功的世代 , 像垃圾一樣的膠帶 。
well , the same things happen to our cells .	同樣的事情也發生在我們的細胞上 。
that's why a 65yearold person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12yearold person .	這就是為什麼一個65歲的孩子在老化的速度 , 比一個12歲的人快125倍 。
so , if there is nothing you can do to slow your aging or stop your aging , what am i doing here ?	所以 , 如果沒有東西可以減緩你的老化或阻止你的老化 , 我在這裡做什麼 ?
well , the fact of the matter is the best science tells us that the capacity of the human body , my body , your body , is about 90 years , a little bit more for women .	事實上 , 最好的科學告訴我們 , 人體的能力 , 我的身體 , 你的身體 , 大約九十年 , 對女人來說 , 有一點點 。
but life expectancy in this country is only 78 .	但在這個國家的平均壽命只有78歲 。
so somewhere along the line , we're leaving about 12 good years on the table .	所以 , 在線上某個地方 , 我們在桌子上留下了大約12年的美好年 。
these are years that we could get .	這些年是我們可以得到的 。
and research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease , heart disease , cancer and diabetes .	研究顯示 , 牠們大多會不會因為慢性疾病 , 心臟病 , 癌症和糖尿病 。
we think the best way to get these missing years is to look at the cultures around the world that are actually experiencing them , areas where people are living to age 100 at rates up to 10 times greater than we are , areas where the life expectancy is an extra dozen years , the rate of middle age mortality is a fraction of what it is in this country .	我們認為這些消失的最佳方法就是看看全世界的文化 , 真正體驗他們 , 居住的地方 , 人口比我們高出十倍 , 人口預期壽命延長十倍 , 中年死亡率是這個國家中年死亡率的一部分 。
we found our first blue zone about 125 miles off the coast of italy , on the island of sardinia .	我們在義大利海岸找到了第一區大約125英里的藍色區域 , 位在薩丁尼亞島 。
and not the entire island , the island is about 1 . 4 million people , but only up in the highlands , an area called the nuoro province .	而不是整個島 , 島嶼大約有一百四百萬人 , 但在高地 , 一個叫做努羅省的地方 。
and here we have this area where men live the longest , about 10 times more centenarians than we have here in america .	在這裡 , 男性壽命最長的區域 , 比美國這裡的百歲人多十倍 。
and this is a place where people not only reach age 100 , they do so with extraordinary vigor .	這個地方 , 人們不只達到一百歲 , 他們還用非凡的維生人來做這件事 。
places where 102 year olds still ride their bike to work , chop wood , and can beat a guy 60 years younger than them .	在那裡 , 102歲的老年人仍然騎自行車去工作 , 木頭可以擊敗一個比他們年輕六十歲的人 。
their history actually goes back to about the time of christ .	他們的歷史其實是回到基督時代 。
it's actually a bronze age culture that's been isolated .	它實際上是一個被隔離的青銅文化 。
because the land is so infertile , they largely are shepherds , which occasions regular , lowintensity physical activity .	因為土地是如此的不公平 , 它們大多是牧羊 , 常常有的、較低的身體活動 。
their diet is mostly plantbased , accentuated with foods that they can carry into the fields .	牠們的飲食主要是以植物為基礎的 , 牠們能帶到田野中 。
they came up with an unleavened whole wheat bread called carta musica made out of durum wheat , a type of cheese made from grassfed animals so the cheese is high in omega3 fatty acids instead of omega6 fatty acids from cornfed animals , and a type of wine that has three times the level of polyphenols than any known wine in the world .	他們想出了無數的麵包 , 叫做carta音樂 , 由土壤餵養的動物所組成 , 一種乳酪是高於omega-3脂肪酸而不是omega-6脂肪酸來自玉米受損的動物 , 還有一種葡萄酒含有三倍於全世界所知的葡萄酒量 。
but the real secret i think lies more in the way that they organize their society .	但我認為真正的秘密是他們如何組織他們的社會 。
and one of the most salient elements of the sardinian society is how they treat older people .	而薩丁尼亞社會最瘋狂的元素之一就是他們如何對待老年人 。
you ever notice here in america , social equity seems to peak at about age 24 ?	你有沒有注意到在美國 , 社會平等似乎在24歲時達到高峰 ?
just look at the advertisements .	看看廣告 。
here in sardinia , the older you get the more equity you have , the more wisdom you're celebrated for .	在薩丁尼亞 , 越老越平等 , 你就越有智慧 。
you go into the bars in sardinia , instead of seeing the sports illustrated swimsuit calendar , you see the centenarian of the month calendar .	你走進薩丁尼亞的酒吧 , 不是看運動的標示游泳日曆 , 而是月曆的百歲人 。
this , as it turns out , is not only good for your aging parents to keep them close to the family it imparts about four to six years of extra life expectancy research shows it's also good for the children of those families , who have lower rates of mortality and lower rates of disease .	結果發現 , 這不僅對你老年的父母來說是好的 , 可以讓他們靠近家人 , 提高大約四到六年的預期壽命研究顯示 , 對那些家庭的孩子而言 , 死亡率較低 , 疾病的死亡率也較低 。
that's called the grandmother effect .	這叫做 「 祖母效應 」 。
we found our second blue zone on the other side of the planet , about 800 miles south of tokyo , on the archipelago of okinawa .	我們在地球的另一端發現了第二個藍色區域 , 東京南部大約有八百英哩 , 在奧林加拉哥的阿基拉哥 。
okinawa is actually 161 small islands .	okinawa其實是161個小島 。
and in the northern part of the main island , this is ground zero for world longevity .	在主島北部 , 這是世界長壽的根本零 。
this is a place where the oldest living female population is found .	這是最古老的女性族群所在的地方 。
it's a place where people have the longest disabilityfree life expectancy in the world .	這個地方 , 人們有世界上最長壽的缺陷人數 。
they have what we want .	他們有我們想要的 。
they live a long time , and tend to die in their sleep , very quickly , and often , i can tell you , after sex .	牠們活了很長一段時間 , 往往在牠們的睡眠很快 , 通常 , 我可以告訴你 , 在性愛之後 。
they live about seven good years longer than the average american .	他們的壽命比美國人平均要長七年 。
five times as many centenarians as we have in america .	美國的百歲人數有五倍 。
one fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer , big killers here in america .	第五個蜂群和乳癌的比率 , 美國這裡的大型殺手 。
and one sixth the rate of cardiovascular disease .	六分之一的心血管疾病 。
and the fact that this culture has yielded these numbers suggests strongly they have something to teach us .	事實上 , 這個文化給了這些數字 , 表示他們有一定的教訓能力 。
what do they do ?	他們會怎麼做 ?
once again , a plantbased diet , full of vegetables with lots of color in them .	再一次 , 一個以植物為基礎的飲食 , 裡面有許多顏色的蔬菜 。
and they eat about eight times as much tofu as americans do .	他們吃大約八倍的豆腐比美國人多 。
more significant than what they eat is how they eat it .	比他們吃的東西更重要 。
they have all kinds of little strategies to keep from overeating , which , as you know , is a big problem here in america .	他們有各式各樣的小策略來避免過量 , 如你所知 , 在美國 , 是個大問題 。
a few of the strategies we observed: they eat off of smaller plates , so they tend to eat fewer calories at every sitting .	我們觀察到的幾個策略是:它們會吃比較小的盤子 , 所以它們通常會吃比較少的卡路里 。
instead of serving family style , where you can sort of mindlessly eat as you're talking , they serve at the counter , put the food away , and then bring it to the table .	與其提供家庭風格 , 你可以在談話時不經心地吃東西 , 他們會在櫃台上服務 , 把食物帶走 , 然後把它帶到桌子上 。
they also have a 3 , 000yearold adage , which i think is the greatest sort of diet suggestion ever invented .	他們還有一個三千歲的小孩 , 我覺得這是史上最棒的飲食建議 。
it was invented by confucius .	它是由混亂創造出來的 。
and that diet is known as the hara , hatchi , bu diet .	這種飲食就是所謂的 「 哈特拉、哈蒂、布爾飲食 」 。
it's simply a little saying these people say before their meal to remind them to stop eating when their stomach is [80] percent full .	只是說這些人在吃飯前提醒他們要停止吃80%的食物
it takes about a half hour for that full feeling to travel from your belly to your brain .	要花半小時的時間才能從腹部到腦部旅行 。
and by remembering to stop at 80 percent it helps keep you from doing that very thing .	記住要停止百分之八十 , 它能協助你避免做這件事 。
but , like sardinia , okinawa has a few social constructs that we can associate with longevity .	但 , 就像薩丁尼亞一樣 , okinawa有幾個社會建構 , 我們能與長壽相關 。
we know that isolation kills .	我們知道隔離會致命 。
fifteen years ago , the average american had three good friends .	15年前 , 美國平均有三個好朋友 。
we're down to one and half right now .	我們現在已經降到一半了 。
if you were lucky enough to be born in okinawa , you were born into a system where you automatically have a half a dozen friends with whom you travel through life .	如果你夠幸運地出生在okinawa , 你就生在一個系統中 , 你自動擁有一半的朋友 , 和你一輩子旅行 。
they call it a moai . and if you're in a moai you're expected to share the bounty if you encounter luck , and if things go bad , child gets sick , parent dies , you always have somebody who has your back .	他們稱它為 「 摩艾 」 。 如果你在摩艾 , 你被期待要分享這個反彈 , 如果你碰到運氣 , 如果壞事發生 , 孩子生病 , 父母就會死亡 , 你總是有你背後的人 。
this particular moai , these five ladies have been together for 97 years .	這張特別的moai , 這五位女士已經在一起了九十七年 。
their average age is 102 .	他們的平均年齡是102歲 。
typically in america we've divided our adult life up into two sections .	通常在美國 , 我們把成年人的生命分為兩部分 。
there is our work life , where we're productive .	我們的工作是有生產力的 。
and then one day , boom , we retire .	然後有一天 , 砰 , 我們退休了 。
and typically that has meant retiring to the easy chair , or going down to arizona to play golf .	通常這意味著退休 , 退休到亞利桑那州去玩高爾夫球 。
in the okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement .	在okinawan語言中 , 甚至沒有退休的詞語 。
instead there is one word that imbues your entire life , and that word is " ikigai . "	相反地 , 有一個詞會影響你一生 , 這個詞就是 「 ikigai 」 。
and , roughly translated , it means " the reason for which you wake up in the morning . "	大概是翻譯 , 意思是 「 早上起床的理由 。 」
for this 102yearold karate master , his ikigai was carrying forth this martial art .	對於這位102歲的卡爾特•卡爾特 , 他的ikigai正為此帶著這場火星藝術 。
for this hundredyearold fisherman it was continuing to catch fish for his family three times a week .	對這位百歲的漁夫來說 , 每週要捕魚三次 。
and this is a question . the national institute on aging actually gave us a questionnaire to give these centenarians .	這是一個問題 , 國家老化的研究所 , 給了我們一個問卷 , 給這些百歲人 。
and one of the questions , they were very culturally astute , the people who put the questionnaire .	其中一個問題是 , 他們是非常文化的 , 那些提出問卷的人 。
one of the questions was , " what is your ikigai ? "	其中一個問題是: 「 你的ikigai是什麼 ? 」
they instantly knew why they woke up in the morning .	他們馬上就知道為什麼早上起床 。
for this 102 year old woman , her ikigai was simply her greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	這位102歲的女子 , 她的ikigai只是她的曾曾曾曾曾孫女 。
two girls separated in age by 101 and a half years .	兩個女孩在101歲時分離 。
and i asked her what it felt like to hold a greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	我問她 , 拿著一個曾曾曾曾孫女的感覺是什麼樣子 。
and she put her head back and she said , " it feels like leaping into heaven . "	她把頭放回來 , 說: 「 感覺就像跳進天堂 。 」
i thought that was a wonderful thought .	我覺得這是個很棒的思維 。
my editor at geographic wanted me to find america's blue zone .	我在地理雜誌的編輯希望我能找到美國的藍色區域 。
and for a while we looked on the prairies of minnesota , where actually there is a very high proportion of centenarians .	有一陣子 , 我們在明尼蘇達的草原上 , 那裡有非常高的百歲人 。
but that's because all the young people left .	但那是因為所有的年輕人都離開了 。
so , we turned to the data again .	所以 , 我們又轉向數據 。
and we found america's longestlived population among the seventhday adventists concentrated in and around loma linda , california .	我們發現了美國最長壽的人口 , 七天的冒險家集中在加州的洛馬林達市附近 。
adventists are conservative methodists .	進步主義者是保守主義者 。
they celebrate their sabbath from sunset on friday till sunset on saturday .	星期五 , 他們在星期五的日落慶祝自己的休息日 。
a " 24hour sanctuary in time , " they call it .	他們稱之為 「 24小時的聖所 」 。
and they follow five little habits that conveys to them extraordinary longevity , comparatively speaking .	他們遵循了五個小習慣 , 傳遞給他們非凡的長壽 , 相較之下 , 他們會說話 。
in america here , life expectancy for the average woman is 80 .	在美國 , 平均女性平均壽命是80歲 。
but for an adventist woman , their life expectancy is 89 .	但對一位臨時主義的女性而言 , 他們的壽命是89 。
and the difference is even more pronounced among men , who are expected to live about 11 years longer than their american counterparts .	與男性之間的差異更為明顯 , 他們預期能活得比他們美國的對手多11年 。
now , this is a study that followed about 70 , 000 people for 30 years .	這個研究追蹤了大約七萬人三十年 。
sterling study . and i think it supremely illustrates the premise of this blue zone project .	很驚人的研究 。 我想它馬上就說明了這個藍色區域專案的前提 。
this is a heterogeneous community .	這是一個異性戀的社群 。
it's white , black , hispanic , asian .	它是白色、黑色、西班牙裔、亞洲人 。
the only thing that they have in common are a set of very small lifestyle habits that they follow ritualistically for most of their lives .	唯一的共通點 , 是一組非常小的生活習慣 , 讓他們遵循傳統生活習慣 。
they take their diet directly from the bible .	他們從聖經直接取飲食 。
genesis: chapter one , verse [29] , where god talks about legumes and seeds , and on one more stanza about green plants , ostensibly missing is meat .	基因:第一章 , 和第二章 , 上帝談到樂高和種子 , 再來談談綠色植物 , 很可能缺少的是肉 。
they take this sanctuary in time very serious .	他們認真看待這個保護區 。
for 24 hours every week , no matter how busy they are , how stressed out they are at work , where the kids need to be driven , they stop everything and they focus on their god , their social network , and then , hardwired right in the religion , are nature walks .	每週24小時 , 不論他們多忙 , 工作壓力多大 , 孩子們需要被開車 , 停車 , 專注於上帝、社交網路 , 然後 , 在宗教中 , 天生就行走了 。
and the power of this is not that it's done occasionally , the power is it's done every week for a lifetime .	這種力量的力量並不是偶爾 , 它的力量是 , 每週一次都要完成的 。
none of it's hard . none of it costs money .	沒有一個是難的 , 沒有一個花錢 。
adventists also tend to hang out with other adventists .	進步主義者也傾向和其他進步主義者相處 。
so , if you go to an adventist's party you don't see people swilling jim beam or rolling a joint .	所以 , 如果你去參加一個冒險家的派對 , 你不會看到人們在游泳時游泳 , 或是在關節上跑 。
instead they're talking about their next nature walk , exchanging recipes , and yes , they pray .	相反地 , 他們談的是下一個大自然走路 , 交換食譜 , 是的 , 他們祈禱 。
but they influence each other in profound and measurable ways .	但它們會以深遠且可測量的方式影響彼此 。
this is a culture that has yielded ellsworth whareham .	這個文化產出了埃爾斯•威倫漢姆 。
ellsworth whareham is 97 years old .	埃爾斯•華麗姆是97歲 。
he's a multimillionaire , yet when a contractor wanted 6 , 000 dollars to build a privacy fence , he said , " for that kind of money i'll do it myself . "	他是個百萬百萬富翁 , 但當一個承包商想要蓋一個隱私籬時 , 他說: 「 為了這類錢 , 我會自己做 。 」
so for the next three days he was out shoveling cement , and hauling poles around .	所以 , 接下來的三天他出去發發發射水泥 , 四處挖洞 。
and predictably , perhaps , on the fourth day he ended up in the operating room .	可想而知 , 或許 , 在第四天 , 他最後到了手術室 。
but not as the guy on the table ; the guy doing openheart surgery .	但不是桌子上的那個人 , 而是在做開心手術的人 。
at 97 he still does 20 openheart surgeries every month .	九十七歲時 , 他每個月仍然進行二十次開放式手術 。
ed rawlings , 103 years old now , an active cowboy , starts his morning with a swim .	愛德華•古林斯 , 103歲 , 一位活躍的牛仔 , 早上開始了游泳 。
and on weekends he likes to put on the boards , throw up rooster tails .	在週末 , 他喜歡把板子放上去 , 扔上長尾 。
her grandson actually lives in the twin cities here .	她的孫子其實住在雙胞胎城市裡 。
she starts her day with lifting weights .	她從每天開始舉起重量開始 。
she rides her bicycle .	她騎著腳踏車 。
and then she gets in her rootbeer colored 1994 cadillac seville , and tears down the san bernardino freeway , where she still volunteers for seven different organizations .	接著 , 她進入了她的根部1994年的凱迪拉克•席維爾 , 在聖貝納多高速公路上 , 她仍然自願參與七個不同的組織 。
i've been on 19 hardcore expeditions .	我曾經參加過19個硬體探險 。
i'm probably the only person you'll ever meet who rode his bicycle across the sahara desert without sunscreen .	我可能是唯一一個你見過的人 , 穿越撒哈拉沙漠 , 穿越撒哈拉沙漠 。
but i'll tell you , there is no adventure more harrowing than riding shotgun with marge deton .	但我要告訴各位 , 沒有冒險比和馬吉•德頓騎車更加傷心 。
" a stranger is a friend i haven't met yet ! " she'd say to me .	「 陌生人是我還沒見過的朋友 ! 」 她會對我說 。
so , what are the common denominators in these three cultures ?	那麼 , 這三種文化中有什麼共同點呢 ?
what are the things that they all do ?	他們都在做些什麼 ?
and we managed to boil it down to nine .	我們成功地將它歸為九個 。
in fact we've done two more blue zone expeditions since this and these common denominators hold true .	事實上 , 我們已經完成了兩次藍色區域的探險 , 和這些共同的決策者是真的 。
and the first one , and i'm about to utter a heresy here , none of them exercise , at least the way we think of exercise .	首先 , 我即將要在這裡說一下 , 沒有一個運動 , 至少我們對運動的看法 。
instead , they set up their lives so that they are constantly nudged into physical activity .	相反地 , 他們建立了自己的生命 , 使他們不斷地被推向實體活動 。
these 100yearold okinawan women are getting up and down off the ground , they sit on the floor , 30 or 40 times a day .	這些百歲的okinawan婦女在地面上起伏 , 她們每天坐在地板上 , 每天30或40次 。
sardinians live in vertical houses , up and down the stairs .	薩丁尼亞人住在垂直的房子裡 , 上下樓梯 。
every trip to the store , or to church or to a friend's house occasions a walk .	每次去商店 , 教堂 , 或去朋友的家 , 都會有一個散步 。
they don't have any conveniences .	他們沒有任何便利 。
there is not a button to push to do yard work or house work .	沒有一個按鈕 , 來做園藝或家庭工作 。
if they want to mix up a cake , they're doing it by hand .	如果他們想把蛋糕混合在一起 , 他們會用手做蛋糕 。
that burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does .	那燃燒的卡路里就跟跑步機一樣 。
when they do do intentional physical activity , it's the things they enjoy . they tend to walk , the only proven way to stave off cognitive decline , and they all tend to have a garden .	當他們做刻意的身體活動時 , 他們很享受的事物 , 他們傾向走路 , 唯一能證明脫離認知衰退的方法 , 他們都傾向有花園 。
they know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook .	他們知道如何以正確的方式來設定自己的生命 , 以便他們有正確的外觀 。
each of these cultures take time to downshift .	每一種文化都需要時間改變 。
the sardinians pray . the seventhday adventists pray .	薩丁尼亞人祈禱 , 第七天的冒險家祈禱 。
the okinawans have this ancestor veneration .	okinawans有這種祖先的植入 。
but when you're in a hurry or stressed out , that triggers something called the inflammatory response , which is associated with everything from alzheimer's disease to cardiovascular disease .	但當你在急促或緊張時 , 會觸發一種叫 「 發炎反應 」 的反應 , 它會和阿茲海默症及心血管疾病有關 。
when you slow down for 15 minutes a day you turn that inflammatory state into a more antiinflammatory state .	當你每天放慢15分鐘 , 把那發炎狀態轉變成更抗炎的狀態 。
they have vocabulary for sense of purpose , ikigai , like the okinawans .	他們有目的、ikigai的詞彙 , 像是okinawans 。
you know the two most dangerous years in your life are the year you're born , because of infant mortality , and the year you retire .	你知道你生命中最危險的兩年是你出生的那一年 , 因為嬰兒死亡率 , 而你退休的那一年 。
these people know their sense of purpose , and they activate in their life , that's worth about seven years of extra life expectancy .	這些人知道他們的目的 , 他們活在他們的生活中 , 價值約七年的預期壽命 。
there's no longevity diet .	沒有長壽的飲食 。
instead , these people drink a little bit every day , not a hard sell to the american population .	相反地 , 這些人每天都喝一點點酒 , 而不是對美國人口販售的辛苦 。
they tend to eat a plantbased diet .	牠們通常會吃植物的飲食 。
doesn't mean they don't eat meat , but lots of beans and nuts .	不是說牠們不吃肉 , 而是很多豆類和堅果 。
and they have strategies to keep from overeating , little things that nudge them away from the table at the right time .	他們有策略可以避免過度 , 一些小東西在適當的時間點把它們推離桌子 。
and then the foundation of all this is how they connect .	接著 , 所有這些的基礎就是它們如何連結 。
they put their families first , take care of their children and their aging parents .	他們把家人放在第一 , 照顧他們的孩子和他們的老父母 。
they all tend to belong to a faithbased community , which is worth between four and 14 extra years of life expectancy if you do it four times a month .	他們都屬於一個以信仰為基礎的社區 , 值四到十四年的預期壽命是值得的 。
and the biggest thing here is they also belong to the right tribe .	最重要的是 , 他們也屬於對的部落 。
they were either born into or they proactively surrounded themselves with the right people .	他們天生就要不就好 , 不然就把自己和對的人包圍在一起 。
we know from the framingham studies , that if your three best friends are obese there is a 50 percent better chance that you'll be overweight .	我們從弗明罕研究中得知 , 如果你三個最好的朋友肥胖 , 你的體重過重的機率是50% 。
so , if you hang out with unhealthy people , that's going to have a measurable impact over time .	所以 , 如果你和不健康的人在一起 , 會隨著時間影響到一個可衡量的影響 。
instead , if your friend's idea of recreation is physical activity , bowling , or playing hockey , biking or gardening , if your friends drink a little , but not too much , and they eat right , and they're engaged , and they're trusting and trustworthy , that is going to have the biggest impact over time .	相反地 , 假如你的朋友對於重建的概念是實體的活動、弓、踢泥巴、騎腳踏車或園藝 , 如果你的朋友喝了一點點酒 , 但他們吃得不太對 , 他們有信任和值得信賴 , 那將會隨著時間影響最大 。
diets don't work . no diet in the history of the world has ever worked for more than two percent of the population .	飲食是行不通的 , 全世界的歷史上沒有飲食 , 超過百分之二的人口 。
exercise programs usually start in january ; they're usually done by october .	運動計畫通常從一月開始 , 他們通常是十月完成的 。
when it comes to longevity there is no short term fix in a pill or anything else .	當談到長壽問題時 , 沒有任何短期的修復方式 , 不管是藥丸或其他東西 。
but when you think about it , your friends are longterm adventures , and therefore , perhaps the most significant thing you can do to add more years to your life , and life to your years . thank you very much .	但當你想想看 , 你的朋友是長期的冒險 , 因此 , 也許你能做最重要的事情 , 讓你能在人生中多年 , 生命多年 。 謝謝你 。
ink that conducts electricity ; a window that turns from clear to opaque at the flip of a switch ; a jelly that makes music . all this stuff exists , and catarina mota says: it's time to play with it . mota leads us on a tour of surprising and cool new materials , and suggests that the way we'll figure out what they're good for is to experiment , tinker and have fun .	墨水會引導電力 ; 一扇窗 , 從清晰轉變到一個開關的不透明 ; 一個製造音樂的珠寶 。 所有這些東西都存在 , 卡特琳娜•莫塔說: 「 該是玩的時候了 。 」 莫塔斯帶領我們到一個驚喜又酷的新材料 , 暗示我們如何找出它們對實驗、粉碎、有趣 。
creativity , design , technology	創造力、設計、科技、科技、
catarina mota: play with smart materials	克里娜•莫塔:玩聰明的材料 。
i have a friend in portugal whose grandfather built a vehicle out of a bicycle and a washing machine so he could transport his family .	我有個朋友在葡萄牙 , 他的祖父在腳踏車和洗衣機上建造了一台車 , 讓他可以運送他的家人 。
he did it because he couldn't afford a car , but also because he knew how to build one .	他做到了 , 因為他買不起車 , 但也是因為他知道如何建造一台車 。
there was a time when we understood how things worked and how they were made , so we could build and repair them , or at the very least make informed decisions about what to buy .	曾經有段時間 , 我們了解事情是如何運作的 , 和如何做出來的 , 我們就能建立並修復它們 , 或者 , 最不知情的決定 , 來決定該如何購買 。
many of these doityourself practices were lost in the second half of the 20th century .	在二十世紀後半葉 , 許多這種做法迷失了 。
but now , the maker community and the opensource model are bringing this kind of knowledge about how things work and what they're made of back into our lives , and i believe we need to take them to the next level , to the components things are made of .	但現在 , 創作者和開放原始碼的模型 , 正是關於事物如何運作的知識 , 以及它們是如何構成我們的生活的知識 , 我相信我們需要把它們帶到下一個層級 , 到組成的元素 。
for the most part , we still know what traditional materials like paper and textiles are made of and how they are produced .	大部分的時候 , 我們仍然知道紙張和紡織品的傳統材料是由什麼組成的 , 以及它們是如何產生的 。
but now we have these amazing , futuristic composites plastics that change shape , paints that conduct electricity , pigments that change color , fabrics that light up .	但現在我們有了這些驚人、自閉症複合的塑膠 , 改變形狀的顏料 , 影響電力的顏料 , 會改變顏色 , 會亮起來的布料 。
let me show you some examples .	讓我給你們看一些例子 。
so conductive ink allows us to paint circuits instead of using the traditional printed circuit boards or wires .	所以導電的墨水能讓我們繪製電路 , 而不是使用傳統的印刷電路板或電線 。
in the case of this little example i'm holding , we used it to create a touch sensor that reacts to my skin by turning on this little light .	以我手上的這個小例子為例 , 我們用它來創造一個觸控感測器 , 來對我的皮膚產生反應 , 藉由啟動這個小小的光 。
conductive ink has been used by artists , but recent developments indicate that we will soon be able to use it in laser printers and pens .	導電墨被藝術家用過 , 但最近的發展顯示 , 我們很快就能用在雷射印表機和筆上 。
and this is a sheet of acrylic infused with colorless lightdiffusing particles .	這張是加密片 , 上面有無色的光驅光粒子 。
what this means is that , while regular acrylic only diffuses light around the edges , this one illuminates across the entire surface when i turn on the lights around it .	這意味著 , 雖然一般的加密器只會在邊緣散射光 , 但在我打開周圍的光線時 , 整個表面都會發光 。
two of the known applications for this material include interior design and multitouch systems .	這材料有兩個已知的應用 , 包括內部設計和多個觸控系統 。
and thermochromic pigments change color at a given temperature .	而溫度上的色素會在特定溫度上改變顏色 。
so i'm going to place this on a hot plate that is set to a temperature only slightly higher than ambient and you can see what happens .	所以我要把這個放在一個熱板上 , 設定在一個溫度上 , 溫度只比環境高一點 , 你可以看到會發生什麼事 。
so one of the principle applications for this material is , amongst other things , in baby bottles , so it indicates when the contents are cool enough to drink .	這種材料的其中一個原則是 , 在嬰兒瓶中 , 其它的原理是 , 在嬰兒奶瓶中 , 它會顯示 , 當內容夠酷的時候 , 可以喝酒 。
so these are just a few of what are commonly known as smart materials .	這些只是我們一般所知的智慧材料一般稱為 「 智慧型材料 」 。
in a few years , they will be in many of the objects and technologies we use on a daily basis .	幾年後 , 它們會出現在我們每天所使用的許多物品和技術中 。
we may not yet have the flying cars science fiction promised us , but we can have walls that change color depending on temperature , keyboards that roll up , and windows that become opaque at the flick of a switch .	我們還可能還沒有飛行車科幻小說給我們帶來的保證 , 但我們可以用牆來改變顏色 , 依據溫度、鍵盤來滾動 , 窗戶就會在開關上轉動 。
so i'm a social scientist by training , so why am i here today talking about smart materials ?	所以 , 我是社會科學家 , 我為什麼今天在這裡談論智慧型材料 ?
well first of all , because i am a maker .	首先 , 因為我是製造家 。
i'm curious about how things work and how they are made , but also because i believe we should have a deeper understanding of the components that make up our world , and right now , we don't know enough about these hightech composites our future will be made of .	我很好奇事情是如何運作的 , 也是因為我相信我們應該更深入了解構成我們的世界的元素 , 而現在 , 我們對這些高科技複合材料的了解不夠多 。
smart materials are hard to obtain in small quantities .	智能材料很難在很小的質量中取得 。
there's barely any information available on how to use them , and very little is said about how they are produced .	幾乎沒有任何資訊可以用來使用它們 , 且很少有關於它們是如何產生的 。
so for now , they exist mostly in this realm of trade secrets and patents only universities and corporations have access to .	所以 , 目前 , 它們主要存在於貿易秘密和專利只能上大學和企業才能取得 。
so a little over three years ago , kirsty boyle and i started a project we called open materials .	三年前 , 凱西男孩和我開始了一個計畫 , 我們稱之為 「 開放材料 」 。
it's a website where we , and anyone else who wants to join us , share experiments , publish information , encourage others to contribute whenever they can , and aggregate resources such as research papers and tutorials by other makers like ourselves .	這是個網站 , 我們和其他想加入的人 , 分享實驗、出版資訊 , 鼓勵其他人隨時可以做出貢獻 , 並聚集資源 , 例如其他製造者的研究論文和教學 。
we would like it to become a large , collectively generated database of doityourself information on smart materials .	我們希望它能成為一個龐大、集體的資料庫 , 由智慧型材料所產生的資訊庫 。
but why should we care how smart materials work and what they are made of ?	但為什麼我們要關心智慧材料如何運作 , 以及它們是由什麼組成的 ?
first of all , because we can't shape what we don't understand , and what we don't understand and use ends up shaping us .	首先 , 因為我們無法形塑我們不了解的事物 , 以及我們不了解和使用的東西 , 最終會塑造我們 。
the objects we use , the clothes we wear , the houses we live in , all have a profound impact on our behavior , health and quality of life .	我們所使用的物品、衣服、我們所居住的房子 , 都對我們的行為、健康和生活品質有著深遠的影響 。
so if we are to live in a world made of smart materials , we should know and understand them .	所以如果我們活在一個由智慧材料構成的世界裡 , 我們應該要知道並了解它們 。
secondly , and just as important , innovation has always been fueled by tinkerers .	第二 , 同樣重要的是 , 創新一直以來都是由小工人來推動 。
so many times , amateurs , not experts , have been the inventors and improvers of things ranging from mountain bikes to semiconductors , personal computers , airplanes .	很多時候 , 業餘人士 , 不是專家 , 是發明家 , 改進了從山腳踏車到半導體、個人電腦、飛機 。
the biggest challenge is that material science is complex and requires expensive equipment .	最大的挑戰是 , 材料科學是複雜的 , 需要昂貴的設備 。
but that's not always the case .	但事實並非如此 。
two scientists at university of illinois understood this when they published a paper on a simpler method for making conductive ink .	伊利諾州大學的兩位科學家了解這一點 , 他們發表了一篇論文 , 用一個簡單的方法製造導電墨水 。
jordan bunker , who had had no experience with chemistry until then , read this paper and reproduced the experiment at his maker space using only offtheshelf substances and tools .	jordanbunker , 他在當時沒有化學經驗 , 讀了這篇論文 , 並在他的製造者空間裡重複這個實驗 , 只用現成的物質和工具 。
he used a toaster oven , and he even made his own vortex mixer , based on a tutorial by another scientist/maker .	他用烤麵包機 , 甚至用他自己的旋渦混合器 , 根據另一位科學家/maker的教學 。
jordan then published his results online , including all the things he had tried and didn't work , so others could study and reproduce it .	約旦在網路上發表了他的結果 , 包括所有他曾經嘗試過的東西 , 沒有成功 , 其他人可以研究並繁殖它 。
so jordan's main form of innovation was to take an experiment created in a wellequipped lab at the university and recreate it in a garage in chicago using only cheap materials and tools he made himself .	所以jordan的主要創新形式是要在大學裡進行一個完整的實驗 , 並在芝加哥的車庫裡重建這個實驗 , 只使用便宜的材料和工具 。
and now that he published this work , others can pick up where he left and devise even simpler processes and improvements .	現在他發表了這個作品 , 其他人可以拿出他所剩的位置 , 設計出更簡單的過程和改善 。
another example i'd like to mention her project's goal is to highlight the expressive qualities of materials while focusing on the creativity and skills of the builder .	另外一個例子 , 我想提一下她的專案計畫的目標 , 是要強調材料的表達品質 , 同時要專注於製造者的創意和技能 。
electronics kits are very powerful in that they teach us how things work , but the constraints inherent in their design influence the way we learn .	電子設備是非常強大的 , 它們教導我們事物如何運作 , 但它們的設計限制會影響我們學習的方式 。
so hannah's approach , on the other hand , is to formulate a series of techniques for creating unusual objects that free us from predesigned constraints by teaching us about the materials themselves .	另一方面 , 漢娜的做法是設立一系列的技術 , 來創造出不尋常的物體 , 使我們免於設定限制 , 教導我們這些材料本身 。
so amongst hannah's many impressive experiments , this is one of my favorites .	在漢娜的許多令人印象深刻的實驗中 , 這是我最喜歡的一個實驗之一 。
[ " paper speakers " ] what we're seeing here is just a piece of paper with some copper tape on it connected to an mp3 player and a magnet .	我們現在看到的只是一張紙 , 上面有一些銅膠帶 , 連接到mp3播放器和磁鐵 。
so based on the research by marcelo coelho from mit , hannah created a series of paper speakers out of a wide range of materials from simple copper tape to conductive fabric and ink .	根據麻省理工學院的marcelocoelho的研究漢娜創造了一系列的紙張講者從簡單的銅膠帶到導電的布料
just like jordan and so many other makers , hannah published her recipes and allows anyone to copy and reproduce them .	就像jordan和很多的製造者漢娜發表了她的食譜讓任何人都能複製並繁殖這些食譜
but paper electronics is one of the most promising branches of material science in that it allows us to create cheaper and flexible electronics .	但紙電子是最有希望的材料科學分支之一 , 它讓我們能創造出更便宜、更靈活的電子 。
so hannah's artisanal work , and the fact that she shared her findings , opens the doors to a series of new possibilities that are both aesthetically appealing and innovative .	漢娜的手工藝作品 , 她分享了她的發現 , 為一系列新的可能性打開門 , 讓她能吸引人心和創新 。
so the interesting thing about makers is that we create out of passion and curiosity , and we are not afraid to fail .	所以 , 關於製造者有趣的是 , 我們從熱情和好奇心中創造出來 , 我們不怕失敗 。
we often tackle problems from unconventional angles , and , in the process , end up discovering alternatives or even better ways to do things .	我們經常處理無條件的角度的問題 , 在過程中 , 發現了其他的替代方案 , 甚至更好的方式來做事 。
so the more people experiment with materials , the more researchers are willing to share their research , and manufacturers their knowledge , the better chances we have to create technologies that truly serve us all .	所以 , 越多人實驗 , 越多研究人員願意分享他們的研究 , 製造商他們的知識 , 我們就越有機會創造出真正服務我們所有人的科技 。
so i feel a bit as ted nelson must have when , in the early 1970s , he wrote , " you must understand computers now . "	我覺得有點像tednelson在1970年代初期 , 他寫道: 「 你現在必須要了解電腦 。 」
back then , computers were these large mainframes only scientists cared about , and no one dreamed of even having one at home .	當時 , 電腦是這些大型的主機 , 只有科學家在乎 , 沒有人夢想在家中有一個 。
so it's a little strange that i'm standing here and saying , " you must understand smart materials now . "	所以這有點奇怪 , 我站在這裡說: 「 你現在必須要了解智慧型材料 。 」
just keep in mind that acquiring preemptive knowledge about emerging technologies is the best way to ensure that we have a say in the making of our future .	請記住 , 關於新興科技的先例知識是確保我們能在未來實現這個說法的最佳方法 。
when we drive , we get into a glass bubble , lock the doors and press the accelerator , relying on our eyes to guide us even though we can only see the few cars ahead of and behind us . but what if cars could share data with each other about their position and velocity , and use predictive models to calculate the safest routes for everyone on the road ? jennifer healey imagines a world without accidents .	當我們開車時 , 我們會進入一個玻璃泡 , 鎖上門 , 按下加速器 , 依賴我們的眼睛來引導我們 , 儘管我們只能看到前方幾輛車子 , 但如果汽車能與彼此分享他們的位置和速度 , 用預測模型來計算路上所有人最安全的路徑 , 珍妮佛雷諾•亨利會在不意外的世界中想像一個沒有意外的世界 。
jennifer healey: if cars could talk , accidents might be avoidable	珍妮佛亨利:如果車子可以說話 , 意外可能是可避免的可能是可避免的 。
let's face it: driving is dangerous .	讓我們面對現實:開車是危險的 。
it's one of the things that we don't like to think about , but the fact that religious icons and good luck charms show up on dashboards around the world betrays the fact that we know this to be true .	這是我們不喜歡思考的其中一件事 , 但事實上 , 宗教象徵和好運的迷惑出現在世界各地的儀表板上 , 背叛了我們所知道的事實 。
car accidents are the leading cause of death in people ages 16 to 19 in the united states leading cause of death and 75 percent of these accidents have nothing to do with drugs or alcohol .	汽車意外是美國16到19歲的人死亡的主要原因 , 其中75%與毒品或酒精無關 。
no one can say for sure , but i remember my first accident .	沒有人能肯定地說 , 但我記得我的第一個意外 。
i was a young driver out on the highway , and the car in front of me , i saw the brake lights go on .	我在高速公路上是個年輕的司機 , 在我面前的車子 , 我看到了煞車的燈亮亮著 。
i'm like , " okay , all right , this guy is slowing down , i'll slow down too . "	我說: 「 好吧 , 好吧 , 這個傢伙慢下來 , 我也會慢下來 。 」
i step on the brake .	我踏上煞車 。
but no , this guy isn't slowing down .	但 , 不 , 這個傢伙並沒有慢下來 。
this guy is stopping , dead stop , dead stop on the highway .	這傢伙停了 , 停了下來 , 停在高速公路上 。
it was just going 65 to zero ?	剛剛六十五歲到零 ?
i slammed on the brakes .	我撞上了煞車 。
i felt the abs kick in , and the car is still going , and it's not going to stop , and i know it's not going to stop , and the air bag deploys , the car is totaled , and fortunately , no one was hurt .	我覺得abs跑進去 , 車子還在走 , 它不會停下來 , 我知道它不會停下來 , 空氣袋部署 , 車子完全安定了 , 幸運的是 , 沒有人會受傷 。
but i had no idea that car was stopping , and i think we can do a lot better than that .	但我完全不知道車停了 , 我想我們能做得更好 。
i think we can transform the driving experience by letting our cars talk to each other .	我認為我們可以透過讓車子彼此交談 , 來改變駕駛體驗 。
i just want you to think a little bit about what the experience of driving is like now .	請各位思考一下開車的經驗現在是什麼樣子 。
get into your car . close the door . you're in a glass bubble .	走進你的車子 , 關上門 。 你在玻璃泡泡裡 。
you can't really directly sense the world around you .	你無法直接感知你周遭的世界 。
you're in this extended body .	你在這個擴張的身體裡 。
you're tasked with navigating it down partiallyseen roadways , in and amongst other metal giants , at superhuman speeds .	你任務是要將它導向某個部分的路面 , 進到另一個巨人的高速公路上 。
okay ? and all you have to guide you are your two eyes .	好嗎 ? 你只需要引導你兩個眼睛 。
okay , so that's all you have , eyes that weren't really designed for this task , but then people ask you to do things like , you want to make a lane change , what's the first thing they ask you do ?	好 , 這就是你所擁有的目光 , 不是為了這個任務而設計 , 但後來人們要求你做這樣的事 , 你想做一個改變 , 他們要做的第一件事是什麼 ?
take your eyes off the road . that's right .	把你的眼睛從路上脫下來 , 沒錯 。
stop looking where you're going , turn , check your blind spot , and drive down the road without looking where you're going .	停下來看看你要去哪裡 , 轉身 , 檢查你的盲點 , 開車到路上 , 看你要去哪裡 。
you and everyone else . this is the safe way to drive .	你和其他人 。 這是安全的開車方式 。
why do we do this ? because we have to , we have to make a choice , do i look here or do i look here ?	為什麼我們要這樣做 ? 因為我們必須做出選擇 , 我看這裡還是看這裡 ?
and usually we do a fantastic job picking and choosing what we attend to on the road .	通常我們會做一個很棒的工作 , 挑選我們在路上的目的是什麼 。
but occasionally we miss something .	但偶爾我們忽略了某件事 。
occasionally we sense something wrong or too late .	偶爾 , 我們會感覺出錯或太遲 。
in countless accidents , the driver says , " i didn't see it coming . "	在無數的意外中 , 司機說: 「 我看不到它會來 。 」
and i believe that . i believe that .	我相信 , 我相信這一點 。
we can only watch so much .	我們只能看得太多 。
but the technology exists now that can help us improve that .	但現在科技的存在 , 可以幫助我們改善這一點 。
in the future , with cars exchanging data with each other , we will be able to see not just three cars ahead and three cars behind , to the right and left , all at the same time , bird's eye view , we will actually be able to see into those cars .	在未來 , 車子彼此交換資料 , 我們不僅能看見前面三輛車 , 後面三輛車 , 右邊和左邊 , 同時 , 鳥的視野 , 我們就能看見這些車子 。
we will be able to see the velocity of the car in front of us , to see how fast that guy's going or stopping .	我們將會看到前方車輛的速度 , 看看那傢伙要走多快或停車 。
if that guy's going down to zero , i'll know .	如果那個傢伙要去零 , 我會知道 。
and with computation and algorithms and predictive models , we will be able to see the future .	有了計算、演算法和預測模型 , 我們就能看見未來 。
you may think that's impossible .	你可能覺得不可能 。
how can you predict the future ? that's really hard .	你要如何預測未來 ? 這真的很難 。
actually , no . with cars , it's not impossible .	事實上 , 不 , 車子 , 不可能 。
cars are threedimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity .	車子是三維的物體 , 有固定的位置和速度 。
they travel down roads .	他們在道路上旅行 。
often they travel on prepublished routes .	通常他們會在預備的路線上旅行 。
it's really not that hard to make reasonable predictions about where a car's going to be in the near future .	對於不久將來車子的未來 , 並不難做出合理的預測 。
even if , when you're in your car and some motorcyclist comes bshoom ! 85 miles an hour down , lanesplitting i know you've had this experience that guy didn't " just come out of nowhere . "	就算你在車上和一些摩托車上時速85英里 , 一小時85英里 , 我知道你有這種經驗 , 沒有 「 出出門 」 。
that guy's been on the road probably for the last half hour .	那傢伙已經在路上待了半個小時 。
right ? i mean , somebody's seen him .	對吧 ? 我的意思是 , 有人看過他 。
ten , 20 , 30 miles back , someone's seen that guy , and as soon as one car sees that guy and puts him on the map , he's on the map position , velocity , good estimate he'll continue going 85 miles an hour .	十、二十、三十英哩 , 有人看過那傢伙 , 一旦車子看到那傢伙 , 把他放在地圖上 , 他就位在地圖、速度 , 估計他每小時85英里 。
you'll know , because your car will know , because that other car will have whispered something in his ear , like , " by the way , five minutes , motorcyclist , watch out . "	你們會知道 , 因為你的車子會知道 , 其他車子會在他的耳中發出一些東西 , 比如: 「 順道一提 , 五分鐘 , 摩托車騎士 , 仔細看 。 」
you can make reasonable predictions about how cars behave .	你可以對汽車的行為做出合理的預測 。
i mean , they're newtonian objects .	我的意思是 , 他們是牛頓人物 。
that's very nice about them .	這對他們來說很棒 。
so how do we get there ?	所以 , 我們要如何做到呢 ?
we can start with something as simple as sharing our position data between cars , just sharing gps .	我們可以從簡單的開始 , 來分享汽車的位置 , 分享gps的位置 。
if i have a gps and a camera in my car , i have a pretty precise idea of where i am and how fast i'm going .	如果我有gps和攝影機在我的車上 , 我有一個非常精確的點子 , 知道我在哪裡 , 以及我要走多快 。
with computer vision , i can estimate where the cars around me are , sort of , and where they're going .	有了電腦視覺 , 我可以估計我身邊的車子在哪裡 , 有點像是在哪裡 。
and same with the other cars .	其他車也一樣 。
they can have a precise idea of where they are , and sort of a vague idea of where the other cars are .	它們可以精確地知道它們在哪裡 , 對於其他車子的位置 , 可以有精確的概念 。
what happens if two cars share that data , if they talk to each other ?	如果兩個汽車共享這些數據 , 如果他們彼此交談 , 會發生什麼事 ?
i can tell you exactly what happens .	我可以告訴你們發生了什麼事 。
professor bob wang and his team have done computer simulations of what happens when fuzzy estimates combine , even in light traffic , when cars just share gps data , and we've moved this research out of the computer simulation and into robot test beds that have the actual sensors that are in cars now on these robots: stereo cameras , gps , and the twodimensional laser range finders that are common in backup systems .	鮑勃教授和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 當fuszy估計加起來時 , 甚至在光速交通中 , 汽車只是分享gps的資料 , 我們把這個研究從電腦模擬中移到機器人測試的實際感應器上 , 在這些機器人身上:sereo、gps , 以及2d的雷射 , 在後備系統中常見 。
we also attach a discrete shortrange communication radio , and the robots talk to each other .	我們也將一個距離簡短的通訊無線電 , 機器人彼此交談 。
when these robots come at each other , they track each other's position precisely , and they can avoid each other .	當這些飛行器互相撞擊時 , 它們會精確地追蹤對方的位置 , 它們可以互相避開 。
we're now adding more and more robots into the mix , and we encountered some problems .	我們現在在混合中加入了更多的機器人 , 我們遇到了一些問題 。
one of the problems , when you get too much chatter , it's hard to process all the packets , so you have to prioritize , and that's where the predictive model helps you .	其中一個問題 , 當你得到太多章節時 , 要處理所有的包裝是很難的 , 所以你得要先排序 , 這就是預測模式協助你的地方 。
if your robot cars are all tracking the predicted trajectories , you don't pay as much attention to those packets .	如果你的機器人車都在追蹤預期的軌跡 , 你就不太會注意那些包裝 。
you prioritize the one guy who seems to be going a little off course .	你把一個看起來有點偏離軌道的人列為優先順序 。
that guy could be a problem .	那傢伙可能是個問題 。
and you can predict the new trajectory .	你可以預測新的軌道 。
so you don't only know that he's going off course , you know how .	所以你不只知道他要怎麼做 , 你知道的 。
and you know which drivers you need to alert to get out of the way .	而且你知道哪一位司機需要警告才能脫離路線 。
and we wanted to do how can we best alert everyone ?	我們想做個最好的警告方式嗎 ?
how can these cars whisper , " you need to get out of the way ? "	這些車子怎麼會說: 「 你得走路 ? 」
well , it depends on two things: one , the ability of the car , and second the ability of the driver .	嗯 , 它取決於兩件事:一 , 車子的能力 , 第二 , 駕駛的能力 。
if one guy has a really great car , but they're on their phone or , you know , doing something , they're not probably in the best position to react in an emergency .	如果一個人有一台很棒的車 , 但他們在手機上或做一些事 , 他們可能不是在緊急情況下反應最好的位置 。
so we started a separate line of research doing driver state modeling .	所以 , 我們開始了一系列的研究 , 做司機的模型 。
and now , using a series of three cameras , we can detect if a driver is looking forward , looking away , looking down , on the phone , or having a cup of coffee .	現在 , 用了一系列三台攝影機 , 我們能偵測到駕駛是否向前看 , 向下看 , 向下看 , 手機或喝杯咖啡 。
we can predict the accident and we can predict who , which cars , are in the best position to move out of the way to calculate the safest route for everyone .	我們可以預測意外發生 , 我們可以預測誰、哪些車子 , 最好的位置 , 去計算每個人最安全的路線 。
fundamentally , these technologies exist today .	基本上 , 這些技術今天存在 。
i think the biggest problem that we face is our own willingness to share our data .	我認為我們面臨的最大問題是我們自己的意願來分享我們的資料 。
i think it's a very disconcerting notion , this idea that our cars will be watching us , talking about us to other cars , that we'll be going down the road in a sea of gossip .	我認為這是一個非常讓人不安的概念 , 我們的車子會看著我們 , 和其他車子聊聊 , 我們會在路上走下去 。
but i believe it can be done in a way that protects our privacy , just like right now , when i look at your car from the outside , i don't really know about you .	但我相信它可以用一種方式來保護我們的隱私 , 就像現在 , 當我從外面看你的車 , 我並不知道你 。
if i look at your license plate number , i don't really know who you are .	如果我看你的車牌牌號碼 , 我並不知道你是誰 。
i believe our cars can talk about us behind our backs .	我相信我們的車子可以在我們的背後談論我們 。
and i think it's going to be a great thing .	我認為這將會是一件很棒的事 。
i want you to consider for a moment if you really don't want the distracted teenager behind you to know that you're braking , that you're coming to a dead stop .	我想請各位思考一下 , 如果你真的不想要身後的那個分心的青少年 , 知道你在煞車 , 你要來到一個死路 。
by sharing our data willingly , we can do what's best for everyone .	藉由願意分享我們的資料 , 我們就能為每個人做最好的事 。
so let your car gossip about you .	所以 , 讓你的車子走向你 。
it's going to make the roads a lot safer .	它會讓道路更安全 。
x prize founder peter diamandis talks about how he helped stephen hawking fulfill his dream of going to space by flying together into the upper atmosphere and experiencing weightlessness at zero g .	xprize創辦人彼得•戴曼迪斯談到他如何協助史蒂芬•霍金實現了他的夢想 , 透過飛行到大氣中 , 體驗到零g的無重力 。
business , flight , science , short talk , space , technology , universe	商業、飛行、科學、短談話、太空、科技、宇宙、宇宙、宇宙 。
peter diamandis on stephen hawking in zero g	彼得•戴曼迪斯在史蒂芬•霍金的零號中 , 在史蒂芬•霍金的零號中 。
those of you who know me know how passionate i am about opening the space frontier .	認識我的人 , 知道我有多熱情 , 我在開太空邊境 。
so when i had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity , it was incredible .	所以當我有機會給世界重力的專家-零重力的體驗時 , 真是不可思議 。
and i want to tell you that story .	我想告訴你們這個故事 。
i first met him through the archon x prize for genomics .	我首次見到他 , 穿越了archonx獎 , 來做基因組學 。
it's a competition we're holding , the second x prize , for the first team to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days .	這是我們所擁有的競爭 , 第二個xprize , 第一組在10天內完成一百個人類基因組 。
we have something called the genome 100 100 individuals we're sequencing as part of that .	我們有一種叫 「 基因組一百個人 」 的序列 。 我們被稱為 「 基因組 」 。
craig venter chairs that event .	克萊格•凡特斯那天事件 。
and i met professor hawking , and he said his dream was to travel into space .	我遇見了霍金教授 , 他說他的夢想是進入太空旅行 。
and i said , " i can't take you there , but i can take you into weightlessness into zerog .	我說: 「 我不能帶你到那裏 , 但我可以帶你進入零 。
and he said , on the spot , " absolutely , yes . "	他說 , 在這個點上 , 「 絕對是的 。 」
well , the only way to experience zerog on earth is actually with parabolic flight , weightless flight .	要在地球上體驗零的唯一方法 , 其實是帶著偏執的飛行 , 無重力的飛行 。
you take an airplane , you fly over the top , you're weightless for 25 seconds .	你拿起飛機 , 飛過頂端 , 你是無重力的25秒 。
come back down , you weigh twice as much .	再回來 , 你的重量是兩倍 。
you do it again and again .	你一而再再而三地做 。
you can get eight , 10 minutes of weightlessness how nasa's trained their astronauts for so long .	你可以得到8、10分鐘的無重力 , 美國太空總署如何訓練他們的太空人 , 長久以來 。
we set out to do this .	我們開始這樣做 。
it took us 11 years to become operational .	我們花了11年才開始營運 。
and we announced that we were going to fly stephen hawking .	我們宣布我們要飛行史蒂芬霍金 。
we had one government agency and one company aircraft operator say , you're crazy , don't do that , you're going kill the guy .	我們有一個政府機構和一家公司的飛機操作員說 , 你瘋了 , 不要這樣做 , 你要殺了那個傢伙 。
and he wanted to go .	他想要去 。
we worked hard to get all the permissions .	我們努力取得所有許可 。
and six months later , we sat down at kennedy space center .	六個月後 , 我們坐在甘迺迪太空中心 。
we had a press conference , we announced our intent to do one zerog parabola , give him 25 seconds of zerog .	我們有一場記者會議 , 我們宣佈我們的目的要做一場零拋物傘 , 給他25秒的零 。
and if it went really well , we might do three parabolas .	如果真的很順利 , 我們可能會做三場拋物機 。
well , we asked him why he wanted to go up and do this .	嗯 , 我們問他為什麼要去做這件事 。
and what he said , for me , was very moving .	對我來說 , 他所說的 , 是非常感人的 。
he said , " life on earth is at an everincreasing risk of being wiped out by disaster . . .	他說: 「 地球上的生命正在不斷地冒著被災難摧毀的風險......
i think the human race doesn't have a future if it doesn't go into space .	我想 , 如果人類進入不存在的話 , 人類就不會有未來了 。
i therefore want to encourage public interest in space . "	我想要鼓勵公眾對太空的興趣 。 」
we took him out to the kennedy space center , up inside the nasa vehicle , into the back of the zerog airplane .	我們帶他到甘迺迪太空中心 , 到nasa車內 , 到零飛機的後面 。
we had about 20 people who made donations we raised $150 , 000 in donations for children's charities who flew with us .	我們有大約20個人捐款 , 捐贈了15萬美金給兒童慈善機構的捐款 。
a few tedsters here .	這裡有幾個ted人 。
we set up a whole er .	我們設立了整個急診室 。
we had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane .	我們有四個急診室醫生和兩位護士在飛機上 。
we were monitoring his po2 of his blood , his heart rate , his blood pressure .	我們在監視他的血液中 , 他的心率 , 他的血壓 。
we had everything all set in case of an emergency ; god knows , you don't want to hurt this worldrenowned expert .	我們有所有事情都發生在緊急情況下 , 上帝知道 , 你不想傷害這個世界知名的專家 。
we took off from the shuttle landing facility , where the shuttle takes off and lands .	我們從太空梭降落場起飛 , 在那裡 , 太空梭起落和降落 。
and my partner byron lichtenberg and i carefully suspended him into zerog .	我的另一半是雷恩•里希伯格和我仔細地把他暫停為零 。
once he was there , [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like .	一旦他到那裡 , 我們就讓他去體驗真正無重力的感覺 。
and after that first parabola , you know , the doc said everything is great . he was smiling , and we said go .	在那第一個拋物面鏡之後 , 你知道的 , 醫生說一切都很棒 , 他微笑 , 我們說 , 開始吧 。
so we did a second parabola .	所以我們做了第二個拋物面鏡 。
we actually floated an apple in homage to sir isaac newton because professor hawking holds the same chair at cambridge that isaac newton did .	我們真的把一個蘋果漂浮到艾薩克•牛頓 , 因為在劍橋的劍橋教授 , 和牛頓同一座椅子一樣 。
and we did a fourth , and a fifth and a sixth .	我們做了第四個 , 第五個和第六個 。
and a seventh and an eighth .	第七和第八 。
and this man does not look like a 65yearold wheelchairbound man .	這個人看起來不像一位65歲的輪椅男子 。
he was so happy .	他很高興 。
we are living on a precious jewel , and it's during our lifetime that we're moving off this planet .	我們生活在一個珍貴的珠寶 , 在我們的一生中 , 我們正在離開這個星球 。
please join us in this epic adventure .	請加入我們這個史詩般的冒險 。
medical animator david bolinsky presents 3 minutes of stunning animation that show the bustling life inside a cell .	醫學動畫師大衛•鮑林斯基有三分鐘的驚人動畫 , 顯示細胞內部的破壞性命 。
design , entertainment , film , health , medicine , science , technology , visualizations	設計、娛樂、電影、健康、醫學、科學、技術、視覺化、視覺化 。
david bolinsky animates a cell	davidbolinsky為細胞動畫
i'm a medical illustrator , and i come from a slightly different point of view .	我是醫學插圖師 , 我從一個稍微不同的角度來看 。
i've been watching , since i grew up , the expressions of truth and beauty in the arts and truth and beauty in the sciences .	自從我長大以來 , 我一直在觀察著真相和美的表達 , 在科學中真與美的表達 。
and while these are both wonderful things in their own right they both have very wonderful things going for them truth and beauty as ideals that can be looked at by the sciences and by math are almost like the ideal conjoined twins that a scientist would want to date .	雖然這些都是他們自己的權利中美好的兩者都有非常美妙的事物 , 可以用科學和數學來觀察理想的雙胞胎 , 就像科學家們想約會的那樣 。
these are expressions of truth as awefull things , by meaning they are things you can worship .	這些表達真相是令人敬畏的事物 , 意思是 , 它們是你可以崇拜的事物 。
they are ideals that are powerful . they are irreducible .	它們是強大的理想 , 它們是不可思議的 。
they are unique . they are useful sometimes , often a long time after the fact .	它們是獨一無二的 , 有時是有用的 , 通常是在事實之後很長一段時間 。
and you can actually roll some of the pictures now , because i don't want to look at me on the screen .	你現在可以在螢幕上播放一些照片 , 因為我不想在螢幕上看我 。
truth and beauty are things that are often opaque to people who are not in the sciences .	真相和美 , 常常對那些不在科學領域的人來說是很不可思議的 。
they are things that describe beauty in a way that is often only accessible if you understand the language and the syntax of the person who studies the subject in which truth and beauty is expressed .	它們是用來形容美的事物 , 通常只能用你了解語言和語法的人 , 來研究真相和美的事物 。
if you look at the math , e=mc squared , if you look at the cosmological constant , where there's an anthropic ideal , where you see that life had to evolve from the numbers that describe the universe these are things that are really difficult to understand .	如果你觀察數學 , e=mc平方 , 如果你觀察宇宙的常數 , 人類的理想 , 你可以看到生命必須從描述宇宙的數字中演化出來 , 這些是很難理解的 。
and what i've tried to do since i had my training as a medical illustrator since i was taught animation by my father , who was a sculptor and my visual mentor i wanted to figure out a way to help people understand truth and beauty in the biological sciences by using animation , by using pictures , by telling stories so that the things that are not necessarily evident to people can be brought forth , and can be taught , and can be understood .	自從我受過醫學插圖之後 , 我就嘗試做些什麼 , 我父親被教導 , 他是雕塑家和視覺導師 , 我想要找出一個方法 , 來協助人們了解生物科學的真與美 , 透過動畫 , 用圖片 , 說故事 , 讓人們不見得可以被引進來 , 可以被教導 , 可以被理解 。
students today are often immersed in an environment where what they learn is subjects that have truth and beauty embedded in them , but the way they're taught is compartmentalized and it's drawn down to the point where the truth and beauty are not always evident .	現今的學生通常會沉浸在一個環境中 , 他們學到的是真相和美的主題 , 但他們被教導的方式是相對的 , 被吸引到真實和美的地點 。
it's almost like that old recipe for chicken soup where you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone .	幾乎就像是雞湯的舊食譜 , 煮雞 , 直到味道消失 。
we don't want to do that to our students .	我們不想對我們的學生這樣做 。
so we have an opportunity to really open up education .	所以我們有機會真正開放教育 。
and i had a telephone call from robert lue at harvard , in the molecular and cellular biology department , a couple of years ago . he asked me if my team and i would be interested and willing to really change how medical and scientific education is done at harvard .	幾年前 , 我接到一通來自哈佛的robertlue , 在分子和細胞生物學部門 , 幾年前 。 他問我 , 我和我的團隊是否有興趣 , 願意真正改變哈佛的醫學和科學教育 。
so we embarked on a project that would explore the cell that would explore the truth and beauty inherent in molecular and cellular biology so that students could understand a larger picture that they could hang all of these facts on .	所以 , 我們開始進行一個探索細胞的計畫 , 來探索分子和細胞生物的真與美 , 讓學生可以了解這些事實的真相 。
they could have a mental image of the cell as a large , bustling , hugely complicated city that's occupied by micromachines .	牠們可能有一塊心智圖像 , 一個巨大、很複雜的城市 , 由微機所佔據 。
and these micromachines really are at the heart of life .	這些微機械是生命的核心 。
these micromachines , which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over , are selfdirected , powerful , precise , accurate devices that are made out of strings of amino acids .	這些微機械 , 是世界各地的奈米技術人員的嫉妒 , 都是自導、強大、精確、精確的裝置 , 由胺基酸組成 。
and these micromachines power how a cell moves .	這些微機械的力量是如何移動的 。
they power how a cell replicates . they power our hearts .	它們能驅動細胞如何複製 。 它們能驅動我們的心 。
they power our minds .	它們驅使我們的心智 。
and so what we wanted to do was to figure out how we could make this story into an animation that would be the centerpiece of biovisions at harvard , which is a website that harvard has for its molecular and cellular biology students that will in addition to all the textual information , in addition to all the didactic stuff put everything together visually , so that these students would have an internalized view of what a cell really is in all of its truth and beauty , and be able to study with this view in mind , so that their imaginations would be sparked , so that their passions would be sparked and so that they would be able to go on and use these visions in their head to make new discoveries and to be able to find out , really , how life works .	所以 , 我們想要做的是 , 找出如何把這個故事變成一個動畫的中心 , 一個哈佛大學的生物視覺中心 , 一個哈佛大學的網站 , 由它的分子和細胞生物組成的學生 , 除了所有的文字資訊以外 , 外 , 所有教學都把所有的東西都放在一起 , 讓這些學生們可以內心了解細胞的真理和美麗 , 並且能夠在心中學習這個觀點 , 這樣他們的想像力才會被激發出來 , 以至於他們發現它們的生命 。
so we set out by looking at how these molecules are put together .	所以我們開始研究這些分子是如何組合在一起的 。
we worked with a theme , which is , you've got macrophages that are streaming down a capillary , and they're touching the surface of the capillary wall , and they're picking up information from cells that are on the capillary wall , and they are given this information that there's an inflammation somewhere outside , where they can't see and sense .	我們和一個主題合作 , 也就是說 , 你有巨噬細胞在微血管下游 , 它們在觸碰微血管壁的表面 , 它們會從微血管壁上的細胞取得資訊 , 它們會得到這個資訊 , 在外面有發炎的資訊 , 它們無法看見和感覺 。
but they get the information that causes them to stop , causes them to internalize that they need to make all of the various parts that will cause them to change their shape , and try to get out of this capillary and find out what's going on .	但他們會得到造成它們停止的資訊 , 導致它們內化 , 使它們需要製造出各種各樣的部件 , 使它們能夠改變形狀 , 試著從這些微小的微小中找出發生了什麼事 。
so these molecular motors we had to work with the harvard scientists and databank models of the atomically accurate molecules and figure out how they moved , and figure out what they did .	所以這些分子馬達 , 我們必須與哈佛大學的科學家和資料庫研究原子正確的分子模型並找出它們是如何移動的 , 找出它們是怎麼做到的 。
and figure out how to do this in a way that was truthful in that it imparted what was going on , but not so truthful that the compact crowding in a cell would prevent the vista from happening .	弄清楚如何用真相的方式來做這件事 , 讓它在發生了什麼事 , 但不是很誠實的 , 要讓細胞中的擁抱者不會發生這種事 。
and so what i'm going to show you is a threeminute reader's digest version of the first aspect of this film that we produced . it's an ongoing project that's going to go another four or five years .	所以我要給你們看的是一個三分鐘的讀者消化版 , 這是我們製作的這部電影的第一面版本 。 這是一個持續發展的專案計畫 , 將會再花四到五年 。
and i want you to look at this and see the paths that the cell manufactures these little walking machines , they're called kinesins that take these huge loads that would challenge an ant in relative size .	請各位看看這個 , 看看細胞製造這些小行走的小機器的路徑 , 它們被稱為kinesins , 可以在相對大小的螞蟻身上挑戰螞蟻的大小 。
run the movie , please .	請播放這部電影 。
but these machines that power the inside of the cells are really quite amazing , and they really are the basis of all life because all of these machines interact with each other .	但這些驅動細胞內部的機器是非常了不起的 , 它們真的是所有生命的基礎 , 因為這些機器互相作用 。
they pass information to each other .	它們會把資訊傳遞給彼此 。
they cause different things to happen inside the cell .	它們會造成不同的事情發生在細胞內 。
and the cell will actually manufacture the parts that it needs on the fly , from information that's brought from the nucleus by molecules that read the genes .	細胞會製造出果蠅所需要的零件 , 從原子核的資訊中 , 透過讀取基因的分子 , 來製造出它們所需要的零件 。
no life , from the smallest life to everybody here , would be possible without these little micromachines .	沒有生命 , 從最小的生命到這裡的每個人 , 都可能沒有這些微生物 。
in fact , it would really , in the absence of these machines , have made the attendance here , chris , really quite sparse .	事實上 , 在沒有這些機器的情況下 , 克里斯 , 真的很矛盾 。
this is the fedex delivery guy of the cell .	這是細胞的fedex遞送人員 。
this little guy is called the kinesin , and he pulls a sack that's full of brand new manufactured proteins to wherever it's needed in the cell whether it's to a membrane , whether it's to an organelle , whether it's to build something or repair something .	這個小傢伙叫做kinesin , 他把一包包裝滿了全新的製造業蛋白質到細胞所需的位置 , 不論是細胞膜 , 不論是組織 , 不論是用來建造東西或修補東西 。
and each of us has about 100 , 000 of these things running around , right now , inside each one of your 100 trillion cells .	我們每個人身上都有大約十萬個這種東西在你的一百兆個細胞內運行 。
so no matter how lazy you feel , you're not really intrinsically doing nothing .	所以 , 不論你有多懶惰 , 你在本質上什麼都不做 。
so what i want you to do when you go home is think about this , and think about how powerful our cells are .	所以 , 當你回家時 , 我要你怎麼做 , 想想我們的細胞有多強大 。
and think about some of the things that we're learning about cellular mechanics .	想想看 , 我們學到了一些關於細胞機械的知識 。
once we figure out all that's going on and believe me , we know almost a percent of what's going on once we figure out what's going on , we're really going to be able to have a lot of control over what we do with our health , with what we do with future generations , and how long we're going to live .	一旦我們搞懂了一切 , 相信我 , 我們就知道發生了什麼事 , 一旦我們搞清楚到底發生了什麼事 , 我們就能夠控制我們對健康的控制 , 和我們未來的世代的做法 , 以及我們未來的壽命 。
and hopefully we'll be able to use this to discover more truth , and more beauty .	希望我們能用這個方法來發現更多的真相 , 更美麗 。
but it's really quite amazing that these cells , these micromachines , are aware enough of what the cell needs that they do their bidding .	但非常驚人的是這些細胞 , 這些微機械 , 已經足夠地意識到細胞所需要做的事 , 以至於它們在協助 。
they work together . they make the cell do what it needs to do .	它們一起合作 , 讓細胞做該做的事 。
and their working together helps our bodies huge entities that they will never see function properly .	它們一起合作 , 協助我們的身體 , 它們永遠不會看到正常的功能 。
enjoy the rest of the show . thank you .	享受其餘的節目 。 謝謝 。
becky blanton planned to live in her van for a year and see the country , but when depression set in and her freelance job ended , her camping trip turned into homelessness . in this intimate talk , she describes her experience of becoming one of america's working homeless .	貝基•布蘭頓計劃要在她的車上住一年 , 看看這個國家 , 但當憂鬱症和她的自由工作結束時 , 她的營地旅行變成無家可歸 。 在這個親密的演講中 , 她描述她成為美國無家可歸的經驗 。
adventure , happiness , life , personal growth , poverty , social change , society , storytelling	冒險、快樂、生活、個人成長、貧窮、社會改變、說故事、說故事、說故事、個人成長、個人成長、貧窮、社會、社會、社會、社會、說故事、說故事
becky blanton: the year i was homeless	貝琪布蘭頓:那一年我是無家可歸的 。
i'm a writer and a journalist , and i'm also an insanely curious person , so in 22 years as a journalist , i've learned how to do a lot of new things .	我是一位作家和記者 , 我也是個非常好奇的人 , 所以在22年後 , 我身為記者 , 我學會如何做很多新事 。
and three years ago , one of the things i learned how to do was to become invisible .	三年前 , 我學到了如何做一件事 , 就是變成隱形 。
i became one of the working homeless .	我成了無家可歸的無家可歸 。
i quit my job as a newspaper editor after my father died in february of that same year , and decided to travel .	同年二月 , 我辭掉了報紙編輯的工作 , 決定去旅行 。
his death hit me pretty hard .	他的死亡對我來說是非常難的 。
and there were a lot of things that i wanted to feel and deal with while i was doing that .	在我做這件事時 , 我會想和處理很多事情 。
i've camped my whole life . and i decided that living in a van for a year to do this would be like one long camping trip .	我一輩子都在露營 , 我決定住在車上一年要做這件事就像一趟漫長的露營旅行 。
so i packed my cat , my rottweiler and my camping gear into a 1975 chevy van , and drove off into the sunset , having fully failed to realize three critical things .	所以 , 我把我的貓包起來 , 我的推特和我的露營器 , 變成了1975年的一台車 , 開到太陽下 , 完全無法實現三件重要的事 。
one: that society equates living in a permanent structure , even a shack , with having value as a person .	第一:社會等同於生活在一個永久的結構中 , 甚至一個模糊 , 一個人有價值 。
two: i failed to realize how quickly the negative perceptions of other people can impact our reality , if we let it .	第二:我沒意識到 , 其他人的負面感知有多快 , 可以影響我們的現實 , 如果我們放下它 。
three: i failed to realize that homelessness is an attitude , not a lifestyle .	第三:我沒意識到無家可歸是態度 , 而非生活方式 。
at first , living in the van was great .	一開始 , 住在車上是很棒的 。
i showered in campgrounds . i ate out regularly .	我在難民營裡淋浴 , 我經常吃東西 。
and i had time to relax and to grieve .	我有時間放鬆和悲慟 。
but then the anger and the depression about my father's death set in .	但接著 , 憤怒和憂鬱對我父親的死亡設定了 。
my freelance job ended . and i had to get a fulltime job to pay the bills .	我的自由工作結束了 , 我得要有全職工作來支付帳單 。
what had been a really mild spring turned into a miserably hot summer .	真正溫和的春天 , 變成了一個非常熱的夏天 。
and it became impossible to park anywhere without being very obvious that i had a cat and a dog with me , and it was really hot .	在任何地方 , 都不可能停車場 , 很明顯我有一隻貓 , 一隻狗 , 牠和我一起去 , 真的很熱 。
the cat came and went through an open window in the van .	貓來了 , 走過一扇開放的窗口 。
the doggy went into doggy day care .	狗狗去了狗狗的日常照顧 。
whenever i could , i used employee showers in office buildings and truck stops .	每當我可以時 , 我會用辦公大樓的員工和卡車停下來 。
or i washed up in public rest rooms .	或者 , 我在公共休息室被洗了 。
nighttime temperatures in the van rarely dropped below 80 degrees fahrenheit , making it difficult or impossible to sleep .	夜晚的時空溫度在華氏80度以下降 , 使得睡眠難以置信 。
food rotted in the heat .	食物在熱氣中腐爛 。
ice in my ice chest melted within hours , and it was pretty miserable .	冰在我冰上幾小時內就融化了 , 這真的很可悲 。
i couldn't afford to find an apartment , or couldn't afford an apartment that would allow me to have the rottweiler and the cat .	我負擔不起公寓 , 或買不起一間公寓 , 讓我有了腐爛的推特和貓 。
and i refused to give them up , so i stayed in the van .	我拒絕放棄 , 所以我待在車上 。
and when the heat made me too sick to walk the 50 feet to the public restroom outside my van at night , i used a bucket and a trash bag as a toilet .	當熱氣使我太生病了 , 晚上在我車外的公共廁所 , 我用了一個桶子和一個垃圾袋來當廁所 。
when winter weather set in , the temperatures dropped below freezing . and they stayed there .	當冬天氣象出現時 , 溫度下降了 , 牠們留在那裡 。
and i faced a whole new set of challenges .	我面對了全新的挑戰 。
i parked a different place every night so i would avoid being noticed and hassled by the police .	我每天晚上都拆了另一個地方 , 這樣我就能避免被警察察察察覺和被警察察察察覺 。
i didn't always succeed .	我並不總是成功 。
but i felt out of control of my life .	但我覺得自己無法掌控我的人生 。
and i don't know when or how it happened , but the speed at which i went from being a talented writer and journalist to being a homeless woman , living in a van , took my breath away .	我不知道它是怎麼發生的 , 但我從一個有才華的作家和記者變成一個無家可歸的女人 , 住在一輛車內 , 把我的呼吸帶帶走 。
i hadn't changed . my i . q . hadn't dropped .	我還沒改變 , 我的智商 , 還沒下降 。
my talent , my integrity , my values , everything about me remained the same .	我的才華、我的完整性、我的價值觀 , 所有關於我的事 , 都仍然是一樣的 。
but i had changed somehow .	但我已經改變了 。
i spiraled deeper and deeper into a depression .	我把更深、更深入憂鬱 。
and eventually someone referred me to a homeless health clinic .	最終有人把我稱為無家可歸的健康診所 。
and i went . i hadn't bathed in three days .	我去了 。 我三天沒洗澡 。
i was as smelly and as depressed as anyone in line .	我跟排隊的人一樣被羞辱和沮喪 。
i just wasn't drunk or high .	我只是不喝醉或喝醉 。
and when several of the homeless men realized that , including a former university professor , they said , " you aren't homeless . why are you really here ? "	當幾個無家可歸的人意識到 , 包括一位前大學教授 , 他們說: 「 你不是無家可歸 。 為什麼你真的在這裡 ? 」
other homeless people didn't see me as homeless , but i did .	其他無家可歸的人都不認為我是無家可歸的人 , 但我確實如此 。
then the professor listened to my story and he said , " you have a job . you have hope .	接著 , 教授傾聽我的故事 , 他說: 「 你有工作 , 你有希望 。
the real homeless don't have hope . "	真正的無家可歸者沒有希望 。 」
a reaction to the medication the clinic gave me for my depression left me suicidal . and i remember thinking , " if i killed myself , no one would notice . "	診所給我的憂鬱症 , 讓我有自殺傾向 。 我記得我在想: 「 如果我殺了自己 , 沒有人會注意到 。 」
a friend told me , shortly after that , that she had heard that tim russert , a nationally renowned journalist , had been talking about me on national t . v .	沒多久之後 , 一位朋友告訴我 , 她聽到提姆•羅斯特 , 一個全國知名的記者 , 一直在全國電視節目上談論我 。
an essay i'd written about my father , the year before he died , was in tim's new book .	我曾寫過一篇關於我父親的論文 , 在他死前的那一年 , 是在提姆的新書 。
and he was doing the talk show circuit . and he was talking about my writing .	他在演說節目電路 。 他在談我的寫作 。
and when i realized that tim russert , former moderator of " meet the press , " was talking about my writing , while i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , i started laughing .	當我了解到提姆•羅斯 , 《會見媒體》的前主持人 , 談到我的寫作 , 當我住在華爾瑪的停車場時 , 我開始笑 。
i started laughing because it got to the point where , was i a writer , or was i a homeless woman ?	我開始笑是因為它到達了 , 我是一個作家 , 還是一個無家可歸的女人 ?
so i went in the bookstore . and i found tim's book .	所以我去了書店 , 找到了提姆的書 。
and i stood there . and i reread my essay .	我站在那裡 , 重新寫我的文章 。
because i was a writer .	因為我是一位作家 。
i was a writer .	我是一位作家 。
shortly after that i moved back to tennessee .	在那之後 , 我搬回田納西 。
i alternated between living in a van and couch surfing with friends .	我和朋友住在車內 , 和沙發衝浪之間 。
and i started writing again .	我又開始再寫作了 。
by the summer of the following year i was a working journalist .	接下來的一年夏天 , 我是個工作記者 。
i was winning awards . i was living in my own apartment .	我贏得了獎項 。 我住在我自己的公寓裡 。
i was no longer homeless .	我不再是無家可歸 。
and i was no longer invisible .	我不再是隱形的 。
thousands of people work full and parttime jobs , and live in their cars .	數以千計的人全職兼兼職 , 住在他們的車子裡 。
but society continues to stigmatize and criminalize living in your vehicle or on the streets .	但社會持續汙名並將生活在你的車子或街道上 。
so the homeless , the working homeless , primarily remain invisible .	所以 , 無家可歸、無家可歸、主要仍然是隱形的 。
but if you ever meet one , engage them , encourage them , and offer them hope .	但如果你遇見一個人 , 加入他們 , 鼓勵他們 , 並提供他們希望 。
the human spirit can overcome anything if it has hope .	人類的精神可以克服任何事情 , 如果它有希望的話 。
and i'm not here to be the poster girl for the homeless .	我在這裡並不是要成為一個無家可歸的海報女孩 。
i'm not here to encourage you to give money to the next panhandler you meet .	我不是要鼓勵你把錢捐給下一個乞討者 。
but i am here to tell you that , based on my experience , people are not where they live , where they sleep , or what their life situation is at any given time .	但我在這裡要告訴各位 , 根據我的經驗 , 人們不是他們住的地方 , 他們睡在哪裡 , 或他們的人生狀況 , 在任何時間 。
three years ago i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , and today i'm speaking at ted .	三年前我住在華爾瑪超市停車場 , 今天我在ted演講 。
hope always , always finds a way . thank you .	希望永遠都能找到方法 。 謝謝 。
at tedxchange , thailand's " mr . condom , " mechai viravaidya , walks us through the country's bold plan to raise its standard of living , starting in the 1970s . first step: population control . and that means a lot of frank , funny and very effective talk about condoms .	在tedxchange , 泰國的《保險套》 , 米塔維拉迪亞 , 帶著我們走遍全國的大膽計劃 , 從70年代開始 。 第一步:人口控制 。 這意味著許多法蘭克 , 很有趣且非常有效的討論保險套 。
culture , global issues , health , population , science	文化、全球議題、健康、人口、科學、科學、科學等問題、
mechai viravaidya: how mr . condom made thailand a better place	米塔維拉迪亞:保險套如何讓泰國成為更好的地方 , 讓泰國先生成為更好的地方 。
now , when i was a young man 40 years ago , the country was very , very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty .	40年前 , 當我還是個年輕人的時候 , 這個國家非常貧窮 , 有許多人生活在貧窮中 。
we decided to do something about it , but we didn't begin with a welfare program or a poverty reduction program .	我們決定要做點什麼 , 但我們不是從福利計畫開始 , 或減少貧窮計畫 。
but we began with a familyplanning program , following a very successful maternal child health activity , sets of activities .	但我們從一個家庭普及計畫開始 , 追蹤一個非常成功的孕產婦健康活動 , 一組活動 。
so basically , no one would accept family planning if their children didn't survive .	基本上 , 沒有人會接受家庭規劃 , 如果他們的孩子沒有存活下來 。
so the first step: get to the children , get to the mothers , and then follow up with family planning .	第一步:去找孩子 , 去找母親 , 然後跟隨家人規劃 。
not just child mortality alone , you need also family planning .	不僅僅是兒童死亡率 , 你還需要家庭規劃 。
now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it .	現在 , 讓我帶各位回到為什麼我們要這麼做 。
in my country , that was the case in 1974 .	在我的國家 , 那是1974年的案例 。
seven children per family tremendous growth at 3 . 3 percent .	每家人的成長率有7個孩子 , 成長率是3.3% 。
there was just no future .	沒有未來 。
we needed to reduce the population growth rate .	我們需要降低人口成長率 。
so we said , " let's do it . "	我們說: 「 咱們來做吧 。 」
the women said , " we agree . we'll use pills , but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills , " and we had very , very few doctors .	女性說: 「 我們同意 , 我們會用藥 , 但我們需要醫生來開藥 。 」 我們有非常非常少的醫生 。
we didn't take no as an answer ; we took no as a question .	我們不把答案當作一個答案 , 我們把不當做一個問題 。
we went to the nurses and the midwives , who were also women , and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill .	我們去了護士和助產士 , 她們也是女性 , 並且在解釋如何使用藥丸時 , 做了一個很棒的工作 。
that was wonderful , but it covered only 20 percent of the country .	那很棒 , 但它只佔了全國百分之二十 。
what do we do for the other 80 percent leave them alone and say , " well , they're not medical personnel . "	另外80%的人會做些什麼 , 讓他們獨自說: 「 嗯 , 他們不是醫療人士 。 」
no , we decided to do a bit more .	不 , 我們決定再多做一點 。
so we went to the ordinary people that you saw .	所以我們去了普通人 。
actually , below that yellow sign i wish they hadn't wiped that , because there was " cocacola " there .	事實上 , 在那條黃色標誌之下 , 我真希望他們沒那麼想 , 因為那裡有 「 可口可樂 」 。
we were so much bigger than cocacola in those days .	當時我們比可口可樂還要大很多 。
and no difference , the people they chose were the people we chose .	沒有差別 , 他們選的人是我們選的人 。
they were wellknown in the community , they knew that customers were always right , and they were terrific , and they practiced their family planning themselves .	他們在社區中很有名 , 他們知道客戶總是對的 , 且他們是很棒的 , 他們會自行練習自己的計畫 。
so they could supply pills and condoms throughout the country , in every village of the country .	所以他們可以供應全國各地的藥丸和保險套 。
so there we are . we went to the people who were seen as the cause of the problem to be the solution .	我們就來了 。 我們去找那些被視為是解決問題的原因的人 。
wherever there were people and you can see boats with the women , selling things here's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives wherever you find people , you'll find contraceptives in thailand .	不論在哪裡 , 人們 , 你都能看到有女人的船 , 賣的是漂浮的市場 , 賣香蕉、螃蟹 , 還有避孕用品 , 不論你在哪裡找到人 , 你都會在泰國找到避孕品 。
and then we decided , why not get to religion because in the philippines , the catholic church was pretty strong , and thai people were buddhist .	然後我們決定 , 為何不去宗教 , 因為在菲律賓 , 天主教教會很強烈 , 泰國人民是佛教徒 。
we went to them and they said , " look , could you help us ? "	我們去找他們 , 他們說: 「 看 , 你能幫我們嗎 ? 」
i'm there the one in blue , not the yellow holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to sprinkle holy water on pills and condoms for the sanctity of the family .	我在那兒是藍色的 , 不是黃色的 , 帶著一碗神聖的水 , 讓僧侶在藥丸和保險套上灑上神聖的水 。
and this picture was sent throughout the country .	這張照片被送到全國各地 。
so some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves .	有些村莊的僧侶在做同樣的事 。
and the women were saying , " no wonder we have no sideeffects .	那些女人說: 「 難怪我們沒有副作用 。
it's been blessed . "	它已經被祝福了 。 」
that was their perception .	那是他們的感知 。
and then we went to teachers .	然後我們去找老師 。
you need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place .	你需要每個人參與 , 試著提供任何能讓人類更好的地方 。
so we went to the teachers .	所以我們去了老師們 。
over a quarter of a million were taught about family planning with a new alphabet a , b for birth , c for condom , i for iud , v for vasectomy .	超過25萬人被教導要用一個新的字母a、出生、攝取保險套、iud、v的陰液檢測機 。
and then we had a snakes and ladders game , where you throw dice .	然後我們就有了蛇和梯子遊戲 , 你丟了骰子 。
if you land on anything profamily planning , you move ahead .	如果你降落任何預期的計劃 , 你就會往前走 。
like , " mother takes the pill every night .	比如: 「 媽媽每天晚上吃藥 。
very good , mother . move ahead .	非常好 , 媽媽 , 向前走 。
uncle buys a condom . very good , uncle . move ahead .	叔叔買了一套保險套 , 很好 , 叔叔 , 向前走 。
uncle gets drunk , doesn't use condom . come back , start again . "	叔叔喝醉 , 不用保險套 , 回來 , 再開始吧 。 」
again , education , class entertainment .	同樣的 , 教育 , 娛樂 。
and the kids were doing it in school too .	孩子們也在學校做這件事 。
we had relay races with condoms , we had children's condomblowing championship .	我們和保險套有相對的競賽 , 我們有兒童保險套的冠軍 。
and before long , the condom was know as the girl's best friend .	不久之後 , 保險套就被稱為 「 女孩最好的朋友 」 。
in thailand , for poor people , diamonds don't make it so the condom is the girl's best friend .	在泰國 , 對窮人來說 , 鑽石不會讓它變成保險套 , 是女孩最好的朋友 。
we introduced our first microcredit program in 1975 , and the women who organized it said , " we only want to lend to women who practice family planning .	我們在1975年引進了我們的第一個微型信貸計劃 , 組織了這個計劃的女性說: 「 我們只想借給那些實踐家庭規劃的女性 。
if you're pregnant , take care of your pregnancy .	如果你懷孕了 , 照顧你的懷孕 。
if you're not pregnant , you can take a loan out from us . "	如果你不懷孕 , 你可以從我們身上取出一個貸款 。 」
and that was run by them .	由他們所經營的 。
and after 35/36 years , it's still going on .	在35/36年之後 , 它還在持續著 。
it's a part of the village development bank ; it's not a real bank , but it's a fund microcredit .	它是村落發展銀行的一部分 , 不是真正的銀行 , 而是一個資金小額貸款 。
and we didn't need a big organization to run it it was run by the villagers themselves .	我們不需要一個大型組織來經營這個組織 , 由村民自己經營 。
and you probably hardly see a thai man there , it's always women , women , women , women .	你可能根本看不到一個泰國人 , 總是女人 , 女人 , 女人 。
and then we thought we'd help america , because america's been helping everyone , whether they want help or not .	然後我們認為我們會幫助美國 , 因為美國一直在幫助每個人 , 不論他們是否想要幫忙 。
and this is on the fourth of july .	這是七月第四號 。
we decided to provide vasectomy to all men , but in particular , american men to the front of the queue , right up to the ambassador's residence during his [unclear] .	我們決定為所有男性提供大量昆蟲 , 但尤其是 , 尤其是 , 美國男性在排隊前面 , 就在大使的期間 。
and the hotel gave us the ballroom for it very appropriate room .	這間飯店給了我們一個非常適當的房間 。
and since it was near lunch time , they said , " all right , we'll give you some lunch .	既然快到了午餐時間 , 他們說: 「 好 , 我們會給你吃午餐 。
of course , it must be american cola .	當然 , 它一定是美國的可樂 。
you get two brands , coke and pepsi .	你有兩個品牌 , 可口可樂和百事可樂 。
and then the food is either hamburger or hotdog . "	然後食物是漢堡或熱狗 。 」
and i thought a hotdog will be more symbolic .	我想熱狗會更符號 。
and here is this , then , young man called willy bohm who worked for the usaid .	這裡是這個 , 接著 , 年輕人叫威廉.博爾 , 他為美國國際組織工作 。
obviously , he's had his vasectomy because his hotdog is half eaten , and he was very happy .	很明顯地 , 他的陰道是他的陰道 , 因為他的熱狗被吃了一半 , 他很高興 。
it made a lot of news in america , and it angered some people also .	它在美國做了很多新聞 , 也讓一些人感到憤怒 。
i said , " don't worry . come over and i'll do the whole lot of you . "	我說: 「 別擔心 , 過來 , 我會幫你做很多 。 」
in all this thing , from seven children to 1 . 5 children , population growth rate of 3 . 3 to 0 . 5 .	總而言之 , 從七個孩子到1.5個孩子 , 人口成長率是3.3到0.5 。
you could call it the cocacola approach if you like it was exactly the same thing .	你可以稱它為可口可樂的方法 , 如果你喜歡它是完全一樣的 。
i'm not sure whether cocacola followed us , or we followed cocacola , but we're good friends .	我不確定可口可樂是否跟著我們 , 或者我們跟著可口可樂 , 但我們是好朋友 。
and so that's the case of everyone joining in .	這就是每個人加入的例子 。
we didn't have a strong government . we didn't have lots of doctors .	我們沒有強大的政府 , 我們沒有很多醫生 。
but it's everybody's job who can change attitude and behavior .	但每個人都能改變態度和行為 。
then aids came along and hit thailand , and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight aids .	接著 , 愛滋病來了 , 抵達泰國 , 我們得要停止做許多好事來對抗愛滋病 。
but unfortunately , the government was in denial , denial , denial .	但不幸的是 , 政府在否認、否認、否認 。
so our work wasn't affected .	所以 , 我們的工作不會受到影響 。
so i thought , " well , if you can't go to the government , go to the military . "	所以我想: 「 嗯 , 如果你不能去政府 , 去軍隊 。 」
so i went to the military and asked to borrow 300 radio stations .	所以我去了軍隊 , 要求借300個無線電站 。
they have more than the government , and they've got more guns than the government .	他們擁有的比政府還多 , 他們的槍枝比政府還多 。
so i asked them , could they help us in our fight against hiv .	所以我問他們 , 能否幫助我們對抗愛滋病毒 。
and after i gave them statistics , they said , " yes . okay . you can use all the radio stations , television stations . "	在我給他們統計數據後 , 他們說: 「 沒錯 , 你可以用所有的電台 , 電視台 。 」
and that's when we went onto the airwaves .	那時我們就到了空中 。
and then we got a new prime minister soon after that .	不久之後 , 我們得到了一個新的首相 。
and he said , " mechai , could you come and join ? "	他說: 「 米奇 , 你能來加入嗎 ? 」
he asked me in because he liked my wife a lot .	他問我 , 因為他喜歡我太太 。
so i said , " okay . "	我說: 「 好吧 。 」
he became the chairman of the national aids committee and increased the budget fiftyfold .	他成為國家愛滋病委員會的主席 , 增加預算的五倍 。
every ministry , even judges , had to be involved in aids education everyone and we said the public , institutions , religious institutions , schools everyone was involved .	每個部長 , 甚至法官 , 都得參與愛滋病教育每個人 , 我們說公共、機構、宗教機構、學校 , 所有人都參與其中 。
and here , every media person had to be trained for hiv .	這裡 , 每個媒體人員都必須受過愛滋病的訓練 。
and we gave every station half a minute extra for advertising to earn more money .	我們給每一站一半的額外廣告 , 賺更多錢 。
so they were happy with that .	所以他們對此很滿意 。
and then aids education in all schools , starting from university .	接著 , 所有學校的愛滋病教育 , 從大學開始 。
and these are high school kids teaching high school kids .	這些是高中生 , 教導高中生 。
and the best teachers were the girls , not the boys , and they were terrific .	最好的老師是女生 , 不是男孩 , 他們很棒 。
and these girls who go around teaching about safe sex and hiv were known as mother theresa .	而這些在教導安全性愛和愛滋病的女孩 , 被稱為 「 泰蕾莎 」 。
and then we went down one more step .	然後我們再走下一步 。
these are primary school kids third , fourth grade going to every household in the village , every household in the whole of thailand , giving aids information and a condom to every household , given by these young kids .	這些小學三年級、四年級 , 到村落的每個家庭 , 在泰國的每個家庭 , 提供愛滋病信息和保險套給每個家庭 , 給予這些孩子 。
and no parents objected , because we were trying to save lives , and this was a lifesaver .	沒有父母反對 , 因為我們試著拯救生命 , 這是救命的救命 。
and we said , " everyone needs to be involved . "	我們說: 「 每個人都需要參與 。 」
so you have the companies also realizing that sick staff don't work , and dead customers don't buy .	所以你也發現 , 生病人員不管用 , 死亡客戶也不買 。
so they all trained .	所以他們都受過訓練 。
and then we have this captain condom , with his harvard mba , going to schools and night spots .	然後我們有了這個保險套 , 帶著他的哈佛mba , 去學校和夜點 。
and they loved him . you need a symbol of something .	他們很愛他 。 你需要一個東西的象徵 。
in every country , every program , you need a symbol , and this is probably the best thing he's ever done with his mba .	在每個國家 , 每一項計畫 , 你都需要一個符號 , 這可能是他在mba做過最好的一件事 。
and then we gave condoms out everywhere on the streets everywhere , everywhere .	然後我們把保險套送到任何地方 , 到處都有 , 到處都有 。
in taxis , you get condoms .	在計程車上 , 你得到保險套 。
and also , in traffic , the policemen give you condoms our " cops and rubbers " programs .	此外 , 在交通中 , 警察會給你保險套 , 我們的 「 警察 」 計畫 。
so , can you imagine new york policemen giving out condoms ?	所以 , 你能想像紐約警察提供保險套嗎 ?
of course i can . and they'd enjoy it immensely ; i see them standing around right now , everywhere .	當然我可以 。 而且他們會很享受它 , 我現在看到它們站在任何地方 , 到處都是 。
imagine if they had condoms , giving out to all sorts of people .	想像一下 , 如果他們有保險套 , 給予各種人 。
and then , new change , we had hair bands , clothing and the condom for your mobile phone during the rainy season .	接著 , 新的改變 , 我們有毛髮、衣服、保險套 , 在雨季時 , 都裝了手機 。
and these were the condoms that we introduced .	這些是我們引入的保險套 。
one says , " weapon of mass protection . "	有人說: 「 大規模保護的武器 。 」
we found you know somebody here was searching for the weapon of mass destruction , but we have found the weapon of mass protection: the condom .	我們發現這裡有人在尋找大規模毀滅的武器 , 但我們找到了大規模保護的武器:保險套 。
and then it says here , with the american flag , " don't leave home without it . "	接著 , 美國國旗上寫著: 「 不要離開家園 。 」
but i have some to give out afterward .	但我還是要放棄 。
but let me warn you , these are thaisized , so be very careful .	但讓我先警告各位 , 這些都是泰國化的 , 非常小心 。
and so you can see that condoms can do so many things .	所以你可以看到保險套可以做很多事 。
look at this i gave this to al gore and to bill senior also .	看看這個 , 我把這個給艾爾•高爾和比爾•高爾 。
stop global warming ; use condoms .	停止全球暖化 , 使用保險套 。
and then this is the picture i mentioned to you the weapon of mass protection .	這張照片是我剛才提到的大規模保護武器 。
and let the next olympics save some lives .	下一個奧運會拯救一些生命 。
why just run around ?	為何會跑來跑去 ?
and then finally , in thailand we're buddhist , we don't have a god , so instead , we say , " in rubber we trust . "	最後 , 在泰國 , 我們是佛教徒 , 我們沒有上帝 , 所以我們說: 「 在橡膠上 , 我們信任 。 」
so you can see that we added everything to our endeavor to make life better for the people .	所以你可以看到 , 我們把一切加到我們努力的努力中 , 以讓人民更好的生活 。
we had condoms in all the refrigerators in the hotels and the schools , because alcohol impairs judgment .	我們在旅館和學校裡都有保險套 , 因為酒精損害了判斷 。
and then what happened ?	然後發生了什麼事 ?
after all this time , everybody joined in .	畢竟 , 所有人都加入了 。
according to the u . n . , new cases of hiv declined by 90 percent , and according to the world bank , 7 . 7 million lives were saved .	根據聯合國 , 新愛滋病的案例減少了百分之九十 , 根據世界銀行 , 七百七十萬人的生命被拯救了 。
otherwise there wouldn't be many thais walking around today .	否則 , 今天就不會有很多泰國人走來走去 。
so it just showed you , you could do something about it .	所以這只是給你看 , 你可以做點什麼 。
90 percent of the funding came from thailand .	90%的資金來自泰國 。
there was political commitment , some financial commitment , and everybody joined in the fight .	有政治承諾 , 有些財務承諾 , 每個人都加入了戰鬥 。
so just don't leave it to the specialists and doctors and nurses .	所以 , 別把它留給專家、醫生、護士 。
we all need to help .	我們都需要幫忙 。
and then we decided to help people out of poverty , now that we got aids somewhat out of the way this time , not with government alone , but in cooperation with the business community .	接著 , 我們決定要幫助貧窮的人 , 現在我們得到愛滋病的方式 , 不是單靠政府 , 而是和商業界合作 。
because poor people are business people who lack business skills and access to credit .	因為窮人是商人 , 他們缺乏商業技能和取得信用 。
those are the things to be provided by the business community .	這些是商業界提供的 。
we're trying to turn them into barefoot entrepreneurs , little business people .	我們試著把他們變成赤腳的企業家 , 小小的企業家 。
the only way out of poverty is through business enterprise .	脫離貧窮的唯一方法是透過企業企業 。
so , that was done .	所以 , 已經完成了 。
the money goes from the company into the village via treeplanting .	金錢從公司變成村落 , 透過樹木移植 。
it's not a free gift .	這不是免費的禮物 。
they plant the trees , and the money goes into their microcredit fund , which we call the village development bank .	他們種植樹木 , 錢進入他們的微型信貸基金 , 我們稱之為 「 村落發展銀行 」 。
everybody joins in , and they feel they own the bank , because they have brought the money in .	每個人都加入 , 他們覺得自己擁有銀行 , 因為他們把錢帶進來了 。
and before you can borrow the money , you need to be trained .	在你借錢之前 , 你得要被訓練 。
and we believe if you want to help the poor , those who are living in poverty , access to credit must be a human right .	我們相信如果你想要幫助窮人 , 那些生活在貧窮中的人 , 能取得信用一定是人權 。
access to credit must be a human right .	能取得信用一定是人權 。
otherwise they'll never get out of poverty .	否則他們永遠不會脫離貧窮 。
and then before getting a loan , you must be trained .	在取得貸款之前 , 你必須要受過訓練 。
here's what we call a " barefoot mba , " teaching people how to do business so that , when they borrow money , they'll succeed with the business .	這是我們所謂的 「 赤腳mba 」 , 教導人們如何做生意 , 當他們借錢時 , 他們會成功地做生意 。
these are some of the businesses: mushrooms , crabs , vegetables , trees , fruits , and this is very interesting nike ice cream and nike biscuits ; this is a village sponsored by nike .	這些是一些企業:蘑菇、螃蟹、蔬菜、樹木、水果 , 這是非常有趣的nike冰淇淋和nike餅乾 , 這是由nike贊助的村落 。
they said , " they should stop making shoes and clothes .	他們說: 「 他們應該停止製作鞋子和衣服 。
make these better , because we can afford them . "	把這些做得更好 , 因為我們能負擔得起 。 」
and then we have silk , thai silk .	然後我們有了絲 , 泰國絲 。
now we're making scottish tartans , as you can see on the left , to sell to all people of scottish ancestors .	現在我們在做蘇格蘭的刺青 , 如你所見 , 賣給所有蘇格蘭祖先的人 。
so anyone sitting in and watching tv , get in touch with me .	所以 , 任何坐在一起看電視的人 , 跟我接觸 。
and then this is our answer to starbucks in thailand " coffee and condoms . "	這是我們在泰國的星巴克 「 咖啡和保險套 」 的答案 。
see , starbucks you awake , we keep you awake and alive .	看 , 星巴克你醒著 , 我們讓你清醒且活著 。
can you imagine , at every starbucks that you can also get condoms ?	你能想像 , 在每一個星巴克都能得到保險套嗎 ?
you can order your condoms with your with your cappuccino .	你可以將保險套用在你的膠囊裡 。
and then now , finally in education , we want to change the school as being underutilized into a place where it's a lifelong learning center for everyone .	接著 , 最後 , 在教育上 , 我們想要改變學校 , 成為一個被人人人人人終身學習的中心 。
we call this our schoolbased integrated rural development .	我們稱之為 「 學校基礎的農村發展 」 。
and it's a center , a focal point for economic and social development .	它是經濟和社會發展的中心 。
redo the school , make it serve the community needs .	重新設計學校 , 讓它成為社區的需求 。
and here is a bamboo building all of them are bamboo .	這是一棟竹子建築 , 全部都是竹子 。
this is a geodesic dome made of bamboo .	這是由竹子組成的地理圓頂 。
and i'm sure buckminster fuller would be very , very proud to see a bamboo geodesic dome .	我相信巴克敏斯特•富勒會很驕傲地看到一個竹子的地質圓頂 。
and we use vegetables around the school ground , so they raise their own vegetables .	我們在學校附近使用蔬菜 , 所以他們會養育自己的蔬菜 。
and then , finally , i firmly believe , if we want the mdgs to work the millennium development goals we need to add family planning to it .	最後 , 我堅信 , 如果我們希望mdgs在千禧年發展目標上 , 我們需要增加家庭規劃 。
of course , child mortality first and then family planning everyone needs family planning service it's underutilized .	當然 , 孩童死亡率先開始 , 家庭規劃每個人都需要家庭規劃的服務 , 卻被充分利用了 。
so we have now found the weapon of mass protection .	我們現在已經找到了大規模保護的武器 。
and we also ask the next olympics to be involved in saving lives .	我們也要求下一次奧運參與拯救生命 。
and then , finally , that is our network .	最後 , 這就是我們的網絡 。
and these are our thai tulips .	這些是我們的泰國鬱金香 。
thank you very much indeed .	非常謝謝你們 。
your smartphone may feel like a friend but a true friend would give you a smile once in a while . at ted2013 , keller rinaudo demos romo , the smartphonepowered mini robot who can motor along with you on a walk , slide you a cup of coffee across the table , and react to you with programmable expressions .	你的智慧手機可能會感覺像個朋友 , 但真正的朋友會給你一個微笑 , 不久後 , 在ted2013年 , 克萊納多•德摩摩爾 , 智慧型機器人可以在行走上行走 , 幻燈會幫你搭一杯咖啡橫跨桌 , 並對你做出可程式的表達反應 。
keller rinaudo: a mini robot powered by your phone	kellerrinaudo:一個小型的機器人 , 由你的手機發電 , 由你的手機發電 。
so just by a show of hands , how many of you all have a robot at home ?	請舉手 , 你們當中有多少人在家裡都有機器人 ?
not very many of you .	不太多人 。
okay . and actually of those hands , if you don't include roomba how many of you have a robot at home ?	好 , 請舉手 , 如果你不包含在家裡有多少人有機器人呢 ?
that's the problem that we're trying to solve at romotive that i and the other 20 nerds at romotive are obsessed with solving .	這是我們試圖解決在我和其他20位在romotive的romotive的romods , 致力於解決這個問題 。
so we really want to build a robot that anyone can use , whether you're eight or 80 .	所以 , 我們真的想要建造一個任何人都可以使用的機器人 , 不論你是八、八十歲 。
and as it turns out , that's a really hard problem , because you have to build a small , portable robot that's not only really affordable , but it has to be something that people actually want to take home and have around their kids .	結果發現 , 這是一個非常困難的問題 , 因為你必須建造一個小型可攜式的機器人 , 它不只能負擔得起 , 也必須是人們真的想要帶小孩回家 。
this robot can't be creepy or uncanny .	這個機器人不會很可怕或不可思議 。
he should be friendly and cute .	他應該是友善且可愛的 。
romo's a robot that uses a device you already know and love your iphone as his brain .	romo是一個使用你已經知道的裝置 , 愛你的iphone是他的大腦 。
and by leveraging the power of the iphone's processor , we can create a robot that is wifi enabled and computer visioncapable for 150 bucks , which is about one percent of what these kinds of robots have cost in the past .	透過iphone處理器的力量 , 我們就能創造出一個機器人 , 可以用wi-fi和電腦視覺 , 可以達150美元 , 大約是這些機器人在過去所花費的百分之一 。
when romo wakes up , he's in creature mode .	當romo醒來時 , 他正處於生物的模式中 。
so he's actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face .	所以他實際上是在裝置上攝影機來跟著我的臉 。
if i duck down , he'll follow me .	如果我躲下去 , 他會跟著我 。
he's wary , so he'll keep his eyes on me .	他很溫暖 , 所以他會把眼睛留在我身上 。
if i come over here , he'll turn to follow me .	如果我來到這裡 , 他就會跟著我 。
if i come over here he's smart .	如果我來到這裡 , 他很聰明 。
and if i get too close to him , he gets scared just like any other creature .	如果我太靠近他 , 他就會像其他生物一樣害怕 。
so in a lot of ways , romo is like a pet that has a mind of his own .	所以 , 在很多方面 , romo就像是他自己的寵物 。
thanks , little guy .	謝謝 , 小傢伙 。
and if i want to explore the world uhoh , romo's tired if i want to explore the world with romo , i can actually connect him from any other ios device .	如果我想要探究世界 , 嗯 , 羅摩已經累了 , 如果我想要用romo來探索這個世界 , 我可以和任何其他的ios設備連接他 。
so here's the ipad .	這是ipad 。
and romo will actually stream video to this device .	romo實際上會把視頻傳到這個裝置上 。
so i can see everything that romo sees , and i get a robot'seyeview of the world .	所以 , 我可以看見romo所看到的一切 , 我得到了一個機器人的審查世界 。
now this is a free app on the app store , so if any of you guys had this app on your phones , we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together .	這是appstore的免費應用程式 , 所以如果你們有人在你的手機上有這個應用程式 , 我們現在可以共享機器人的控制權 , 一起玩遊戲 。
so i'll show you really quickly , romo actually he's streaming video , so you can see me and the entire ted audience .	我會很快地展示給你們看 , romo實際上是他在串流影片 , 所以你們可以看見我和整個ted觀眾 。
if i get in front of romo here .	如果我站在romo前面 。
and if i want to control him , i can just drive .	如果我想要控制他 , 我可以開車 。
so i can drive him around , and i can take pictures of you .	所以 , 我可以驅動他 , 我可以為你們拍照 。
i've always wanted a picture of a 1 , 500person ted audience .	我一直都想要一張1500個人的ted觀眾的照片 。
so i'll snap a picture .	我會拍一張照片 。
and in the same way that you scroll through content on an ipad , i can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device .	就像你在ipad上滑過內容一樣 , 我可以調整裝置上攝影機的角度 。
so there are all of you through romo's eyes .	你們全都穿過romo的眼睛 。
and finally , because romo is an extension of me , i can express myself through his emotions .	最後 , 因為romo是我的延伸 , 我可以透過他的情緒來表達自己 。
so i can go in and i can say let's make romo excited .	所以 , 我可以進去 , 我可以說讓我們做romo很興奮 。
but the most important thing about romo is that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive .	但romo最重要的是 , 我們想要創造一個完全直覺的東西 。
you do not have to teach someone how to drive romo .	你不需要教導別人如何開羅摩 。
in fact , who would like to drive a robot ?	事實上 , 誰想開機械人 ?
thank you , scott .	謝謝你 , 史考特 。
and even cooler , you actually don't have to be in the same geographic location as the robot to control him .	更酷的是 , 你其實不需要和機器人在同一個地理位置來控制他 。
so he actually streams twoway audio and video between any two smart devices .	所以他實際上是在任何兩個智慧裝置之間的雙向音頻和視頻上流 。
so you can log in through the browser , and it's kind of like skype on wheels .	你可以透過瀏覽器登入 , 有點像在輪子上的skype 。
so we were talking before about telepresence , and this is a really cool example .	所以 , 我們先前談到電信 , 這是個很酷的例子 。
you can imagine an eightyearold girl , for example , who has an iphone , and her mom buys her a robot .	舉例來說 , 你可以想像一個八歲的女孩 , 她有iphone , 她的媽媽買了她的機器人 。
that girl can take her iphone , put it on the robot , send an email to grandma , who lives on the other side of the country .	那個女孩可以拿她的iphone , 把它放在機器人上 , 送一封電子郵件給祖母 , 住在這個國家的另一邊 。
grandma can log into that robot and play hideandgoseek with her granddaughter for fifteen minutes every single night , when otherwise she might only be able to get to see her granddaughter once or twice a year .	祖母可以登入這個機器人 , 和她的孫女玩躲起來 , 每晚十五分鐘 , 不然她可能一年或兩次看到她的孫女 。
so those are a couple of the really cool things that romo can do today .	這些是現今romo能做的一些很酷的事 。
but i just want to finish by talking about something that we're working on in the future .	但我想先談談未來我們正在做的事 。
this is actually something that one of our engineers , dom , built in a weekend .	這其實是我們其中一個工程師 , 多姆 , 一個週末建成的 。
it's built on top of a google open framework called blockly .	它是建立在google開放的架構上 , 叫做 「 積木 」 。
this allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic code and create any behavior for this robot you want .	這樣你就可以拖著這些微小的語音密碼 , 為你想要的機器人創造任何行為 。
you do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for romo .	你不需要知道如何編寫romo的行為 。
and you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser , which is what you see romo doing on the left .	你可以在瀏覽器中模擬這種行為 , 也就是你在左邊看到romo在做的事 。
and then if you have something you like , you can download it onto your robot and execute it in real life , run the program in real life .	如果你有你喜歡的東西 , 你可以把它下載到你的機器人上 , 並且在現實生活中執行這個程式 。
and then if you have something you're proud of , you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world .	如果你有你自豪的東西 , 你可以和世界上所有擁有機器人的人分享它 。
so all of these wifi–enabled robots actually learn from each other .	所有這些無線網路的機器人都能互相學習 。
the reason we're so focused on building robots that everyone can train is that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal .	我們之所以如此專注於建造一個人人都能訓練的機器人 , 是因為我們認為 , 在個人機械人中 , 最有說服力的用途是個人的 。
they change from person to person .	它們會從人變成人 。
so we think that if you're going to have a robot in your home , that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination .	所以 , 我們認為如果你要在家裡裝一個機器人 , 機器人應該是你自己的想像力 。
so i wish that i could tell you what the future of personal robotics looks like .	我希望我能告訴各位 , 個人機械人的未來是什麼樣子 。
to be honest , i have no idea .	老實說 , 我不知道 。
but what we do know is that it isn't 10 years or 10 billion dollars or a large humanoid robot away .	但是我們知道的是 , 它不是一百、一百億美金或一台大型人體機器人 。
the future of personal robotics is happening today , and it's going to depend on small , agile robots like romo and the creativity of people like yourselves .	個人機器人的未來正在發生 , 它將取決於小型、敏捷的機器人 , 例如romo , 以及像你這樣的人的創造力 。
so we can't wait to get you all robots , and we can't wait to see what you build .	所以 , 我們等不及要讓你們全部的機器人 , 我們等不及要看你在做什麼 。
author and activist isabel allende discusses women , creativity , the definition of feminism and , of course , passion in this talk .	作者和行動主義者 , 伊莎貝爾會討論女性、創意、女性主義的定義 , 當然 , 這場演說的熱情 。
entertainment , global issues , love , parenting , storytelling , women , world cultures	娛樂、全球議題、愛、養育、說故事、女性、世界文化、文化、女性、女性、說故事、說故事、說故事、說故事、女性、女性、女性、世界文化 。
isabel allende tells tales of passion	伊莎貝爾•艾倫說了充滿熱情的故事 。
thank you so much . it's really scary to be here among the smartest of the smart .	非常謝謝你們 。 這真的很可怕 , 能在這裡是最聰明的人 。
i'm here to tell you a few tales of passion .	我來這裡是要告訴你們一些熱情的故事 。
there's a jewish saying that i love .	有句猶太人說我愛 。
what is truer than truth ? answer: the story .	什麼比真相更真實 ? 答案:故事 。
i'm a storyteller . i want to convey something that is truer than truth about our common humanity .	我是一個說故事的人 , 我想要傳達一個比我們共同的人性更真實的東西 。
all stories interest me , and some haunt me until i end up writing them .	所有故事都感興趣我 , 有些困擾著我 , 直到最後我寫這些故事 。
certain themes keep coming up: justice , loyalty , violence , death , political and social issues , freedom .	某些主題不斷出現:正義、忠誠、暴力、死亡、政治和社會議題 。
i'm aware of the mystery around us , so i write about coincidences , premonitions , emotions , dreams , the power of nature , magic .	我知道我們周圍的謎題 , 所以我寫了關於巧合、先例、情緒、夢想、大自然的力量、魔法 。
in the last 20 years i have published a few books , but i have lived in anonymity until february of 2006 , when i carried the olympic flag in the winter olympics in italy .	在過去的20年中 , 我發表了幾本書 , 但我在匿名生活 , 直到2006年2月 , 當我在義大利的冬季奧林匹克市擔任奧運國旗 。
that made me a celebrity . now people recognize me in macy's , and my grandchildren think that i'm cool .	這讓我成為了名人 。 現在 , 人們認得我是男女 , 我的孫子們認為我很酷 。
allow me to tell you about my four minutes of fame .	讓我來告訴你我的四分鐘的名氣 。
one of the organizers of the olympic ceremony , of the opening ceremony , called me and said that i had been selected to be one of the flagbearers .	一名奧林匹克的組織者 , 開幕式的開幕式 , 打電話給我 , 說我被選為一個旗幟手 。
i replied that surely this was a case of mistaken identity because i'm as far as you can get from being an athlete .	我回答 , 這是個錯誤認同的案例 , 因為我身為運動員的距離 , 遠遠超過你身為運動員的距離 。
actually , i wasn't even sure that i could go around the stadium without a walker .	事實上 , 我甚至不確定我可以在沒有行者的場所四處走動 。
i was told that this was no laughing matter .	我被告知這不是一個笑話 。
this would be the first time that only women would carry the olympic flag .	這是第一次 , 只有女性會帶著奧運國旗 。
five women , representing five continents , and three olympic gold medal winners .	五位女性代表五大洲 , 三位奧林匹克獎得主 。
my first question was , naturally , what was i going to wear ?	我的第一個問題是 , 很自然地 , 我要穿什麼 ?
a uniform , she said , and asked for my measurements .	她說 , 一個制服 , 然後問我的測量結果 。
i had a vision of myself in a fluffy anorak , looking like the michelin man .	我對我自己在流感的奧克 , 看起來就像是米奇林人 。
by the middle of february , i found myself in turin , where enthusiastic crowds cheered when any of the 80 olympic teams was in the street .	到了二月 , 我在土耳其找到了我 , 在那裡熱情的群眾歡呼了80個奧運隊伍都在街上歡呼 。
those athletes had sacrificed everything to compete in the games .	那些運動員犧牲了所有的競爭對手 。
they all deserved to win , but there's the element of luck .	他們都值得贏 , 但有幸運的元素 。
a speck of snow , an inch of ice , the force of the wind , can determine the result of a race or a game .	一片雪 , 一英吋的冰 , 一英吋的風力 , 可以決定一個賽局的結果 。
however , what matters most more than training or luck is the heart .	然而 , 比訓練或運氣還要重要 。
only a fearless and determined heart will get the gold medal .	只有一個無懼且堅定的心會得到金牌 。
it is all about passion .	重點在於熱情 。
the streets of turin were covered with red posters announcing the slogan of the olympics .	土耳其的街道被紅色海報覆著 , 宣佈奧運的口號 。
passion lives here . isn't it always true ?	熱情生活在這裡 , 不是一直都是真的嗎 ?
heart is what drives us and determines our fate .	心是驅使我們並決定我們的命運的原因 。
that is what i need for my characters in my books: a passionate heart .	這是我在書中角色所需要的:熱情的心 。
i need mavericks , dissidents , adventurers , outsiders and rebels , who ask questions , bend the rules and take risks .	我需要mavericks、異議、冒險家、外人和反叛者 , 他們會問問題、扭曲規則、冒險 。
people like all of you in this room .	像在座所有人一樣 。
nice people with common sense do not make interesting characters .	那些有常識的好人 , 並不會做出有趣的角色 。
they only make good former spouses .	它們只能製造出好的前配偶 。
in the green room of the stadium , i met the other flag bearers: three athletes , and the actresses susan sarandon and sophia loren .	在體育場的綠色房間裡 , 我遇見了其他國旗熊:三位運動員 , 還有蘇珊•沙隆和蘇菲亞•洛倫 。
also , two women with passionate hearts: wangari maathai , the nobel prizewinner from kenya who has planted 30 million trees . and by doing so , she has changed the soil , the weather , in some places in africa , and of course the economic conditions in many villages .	此外 , 兩位有熱情心的女士 , wangarimaathai , 來自肯亞的諾貝爾獎得主種了三千萬棵樹 。 透過這麼做 , 她已經改變了土壤 , 在非洲的某些地方 , 當然 , 還有很多村莊的經濟狀況 。
and somaly mam , a cambodian activist who fights passionately against child prostitution .	蘇曼 , 一位柬埔寨的激進分子 , 他們熱愛對抗兒童賣淫 。
when she was 14 years old , her grandfather sold her to a brothel .	當她14歲時 , 她的祖父把她賣到妓院 。
she told us of little girls raped by men who believe that having sex with a very young virgin will cure them from aids .	她告訴我們 , 小女孩被男人強暴 , 她們相信和非常年輕的處女性行為會治好她們的愛滋病 。
and of brothels where children are forced to receive five , 15 clients per day , and if they rebel , they are tortured with electricity .	在那裡 , 孩子們被迫每天收到5、15個客戶 , 如果他們反叛 , 他們就被電擊折磨 。
in the green room i received my uniform .	在綠色的房間裡 , 我收到制服 。
it was not the kind of outfit that i normally wear , but it was far from the michelin man suit that i had anticipated . not bad , really .	我平常穿的那種衣服 , 但它離我所預期的米其林男服還很遠 , 真的很不錯 。
i looked like a refrigerator .	我看起來像個冰箱 。
but so did most of the flagbearers , except sophia loren , the universal symbol of beauty and passion .	除了蘇菲雅羅倫 , 普遍的美和熱情符號
sophia is over 70 and she looks great .	蘇菲雅超過70歲 , 她看起來很棒 。
she's sexy , slim and tall , with a deep tan .	她很性感 , 很輕 , 很高 , 帶著很深的坦白 。
now , how can you have a deep tan and have no wrinkles ?	那麼 , 你要怎麼辦到一個很深的坦克 , 沒有皺紋 ?
when asked in a tv interview , " how could she look so good ? "	當在電視採訪中被問到: 「 她怎麼能看起來這麼好 ? 」
she replied , " posture . my back is always straight , and i don't make old people's noises . "	她說: 「 姿勢 。 我的背一直都很直 , 我不會製造老人的噪音 。 」
so , there you have some free advice from one of the most beautiful women on earth .	所以 , 這裡有一些免費的建議 , 來自地球上最美麗的女性之一 。
no grunting , no coughing , no wheezing , no talking to yourselves , no farting .	沒有抓緊、沒有咳嗽、沒有呼吸、沒有呼吸、沒有自己說話 。
well , she didn't say that exactly .	嗯 , 她沒有這麼說 。
at some point around midnight , we were summoned to the wings of the stadium , and the loudspeakers announced the olympic flag , and the music started by the way , the same music that starts here , the aida march .	在午夜的時候 , 我們被召喚到體育場的翅膀 , 大聲說出奧運國旗 , 音樂始於這裡 , 艾迪達遊行 。
sophia loren was right in front of me she's a foot taller than i am , not counting the poofy hair .	蘇菲亞•羅倫站在我面前 , 她是個比我高高 , 不算頭髮 。
she walked elegantly , like a giraffe on the african savannah , holding the flag on her shoulder . i jogged behind on my tiptoes holding the flag on my extended arm , so that my head was actually under the damn flag .	她優雅地走路 , 像在非洲草原上的長頸鹿 , 把旗子放在肩膀上 。 我在我的腳尖上把旗子放在我的手臂上 , 這樣我的頭就在該死旗下 。
all the cameras were , of course , on sophia .	當然 , 所有的攝影機都是在蘇菲雅 。
that was fortunate for me , because in most press photos i appear too , although often between sophia's legs .	這對我來說很幸運 , 因為在大多數的媒體照片中 , 我也出現在蘇菲雅的雙腳之間 。
a place where most men would love to be .	在那裡 , 大部分男人都喜歡成為一個地方 。
the best four minutes of my entire life were those in the olympic stadium .	我一生中最棒的四分鐘 , 是奧林匹克運動場中的人 。
my husband is offended when i say this although i have explained to him that what we do in private usually takes less than four minutes so he shouldn't take it personally .	當我說這句話時 , 我先生被冒犯了 , 雖然我向他解釋 , 我們在私人生活中所做的 , 通常只花不到四分鐘 , 所以他不應親身服用 。
i have all the press clippings of those four magnificent minutes , because i don't want to forget them when old age destroys my brain cells .	我有這四分鐘的所有媒體點擊 , 因為我不想忘記 , 老年摧毀我的腦細胞 。
i want to carry in my heart forever the key word of the olympics passion .	我心裡想永遠帶著奧運熱情的關鍵字 。
so here's a tale of passion .	這是個熱情的故事 。
the year is 1998 , the place is a prison camp for tutsi refugees in congo .	今年是1998年 , 這個地方是剛果的監獄難民營 。
by the way , 80 percent of all refugees and displaced people in the world are women and girls .	順便一提 , 世界上有百分之八十的難民是女性和女孩 。
we can call this place in congo a death camp , because those who are not killed will die of disease or starvation .	我們可以把這個地方命名為剛果的死營 , 因為那些沒有死於疾病或餓死的人 。
the protagonists of this story are a young woman , rose mapendo , and her children .	這個故事的主角是一位年輕女子 , 羅斯•地圖 , 還有她的孩子 。
she's pregnant and a widow .	她是懷孕和寡婦 。
soldiers have forced her to watch as her husband was tortured and killed .	士兵迫使她看著她的丈夫被折磨並殺害 。
somehow she manages to keep her seven children alive , and a few months later , she gives birth to premature twins .	不知怎麼的 , 她想讓七個孩子活下來 , 幾個月後 , 她生下了早產的雙胞胎 。
two tiny little boys .	兩個小男孩 。
she cuts the umbilical cord with a stick , and ties it with her own hair .	她用棍子剪下麻木頭 , 把它和她自己的頭髮綁起來 。
she names the twins after the camp's commanders to gain their favor , and feeds them with black tea because her milk cannot sustain them .	她以營地指揮官的名字命名為雙胞胎 , 用黑色茶餵食牠們 , 因為她的牛奶無法維持牠們 。
when the soldiers burst in her cell to rape her oldest daughter , she grabs hold of her and refuses to let go , even when they hold a gun to her head .	當士兵衝進她的牢房 , 強暴她最老的女兒 , 她抓住她 , 拒絕放手 , 即使他們抱著槍頭 。
somehow , the family survives for 16 months , and then , by extraordinary luck , and the passionate heart of a young american man , sasha chanoff , who manages to put her in a u . s . rescue plane , rose mapendo and her nine children end up in phoenix , arizona , where they're now living and thriving .	不知怎麼的 , 家庭存活了十六個月 , 接著 , 幸運地 , 一位年輕的美國人 , 薩斯夏•查奈夫 , 他致力於將她放進美國救援飛機 , 羅斯地圖和她的九個孩子最後到了亞利桑納州鳳凰城 , 他們現在住在那裡茁壯 。
mapendo , in swahili , means great love .	在斯瓦希里語的地圖 , 意思是很棒的愛 。
the protagonists of my books are strong and passionate women like rose mapendo .	我書的主角堅強和熱情的女性 , 像羅斯•地圖蘭多 。
i don't make them up . there's no need for that .	我不會讓他們站起來 , 沒有必要的 。
i look around and i see them everywhere .	我環顧四周 , 到處看到他們 。
i have worked with women and for women all my life .	我和我的一生都和女性和女性一起工作 。
i know them well .	我知道他們好 。
i was born in ancient times , at the end of the world , in a patriarchal catholic and conservative family .	我出生於古老的時代 , 在父權的天主教和保守的家庭 。
no wonder that by age five i was a raging feminist although the term had not reached chile yet , so nobody knew what the heck was wrong with me .	難怪 , 五歲時 , 我是個狂熱的女權主義者 , 雖然這個詞還沒到智利 , 所以沒人知道我有什麼問題 。
i would soon find out that there was a high price to pay for my freedom , and for questioning the patriarchy .	我很快就會發現 , 我有很高的代價來支付我的自由 , 並且質疑父權主義 。
but i was happy to pay it , because for every blow that i received , i was able to deliver two .	但我很高興能支付這筆錢 , 因為每次我接到的炸彈 , 我都能遞送兩次 。
once , when my daughter paula was in her twenties , she said to me that feminism was dated , that i should move on .	有一次 , 當我女兒保羅在她二十多歲時 , 她告訴我 , 女權主義是約會的 , 我應該繼續下去 。
we had a memorable fight . feminism is dated ?	我們有一場令人難忘的戰爭 。 女權主義是約會的嗎 ?
yes , for privileged women like my daughter and all of us here today , but not for most of our sisters in the rest of the world who are still forced into premature marriage , prostitution , forced labor they have children that they don't want or they cannot feed .	沒錯 , 對於像我女兒一樣有特權的女性 , 今天在這裡 , 我們所有人 , 但對世界上大部分的姐妹來說 , 她們仍然被迫要結婚、賣淫、強迫她們有孩子 , 她們不想要或無法餵飽 。
they have no control over their bodies or their lives .	他們無法掌控自己的身體或生活 。
they have no education and no freedom .	他們沒有教育 , 也沒有自由 。
they are raped , beaten up and sometimes killed with impunity .	他們被強暴 , 有時被毆打 , 有時被懲罰 。
for most western young women of today , being called a feminist is an insult .	現今大多數西方的年輕女性 , 被稱為女性主義者是種侮辱 。
feminism has never been sexy , but let me assure you that it never stopped me from flirting , and i have seldom suffered from lack of men .	女權主義從來沒有性感過 , 但讓我向你保證 , 從來沒有阻止我調情 , 我也曾被男性缺乏 。
feminism is not dead , by no means .	女性主義沒有死亡 , 沒有意義 。
it has evolved . if you don't like the term , change it , for goddess' sake .	它已經進化了 。 如果你不喜歡這個詞 , 改變它 , 改變它 , 讓神的樣子 。
call it aphrodite , or venus , or bimbo , or whatever you want ; the name doesn't matter , as long as we understand what it is about , and we support it .	稱之為aphrodite , 金星 , 或bimbo , 或任何你想要的 , 這名字不重要 , 只要我們了解它是什麼 , 我們支持它 。
so here's another tale of passion , and this is a sad one .	這是另一個充滿熱情的故事 , 這是個悲傷的故事 。
the place is a small women's clinic in a village in bangladesh .	這個地方是孟加拉的一間小女子診所 。
the year is 2005 .	這一年是2005年 。
jenny is a young american dental hygienist who has gone to the clinic as a volunteer during her threeweek vacation .	珍妮是一位年輕的美國牙醫 , 在她三週假期間 , 她去了診所 。
she's prepared to clean teeth , but when she gets there , she finds out that there are no doctors , no dentists , and the clinic is just a hut full of flies .	她準備好要清潔牙 , 但當她到達那裡時 , 她發現沒有醫生 , 沒有牙醫 , 診所就只是一間蒼蠅的小屋 。
outside , there is a line of women who have waited several hours to be treated .	在外面 , 有一系列的女性 , 等了好幾個小時才被治療 。
the first patient is in excruciating pain because she has several rotten molars .	第一個病患在痛苦之中 , 因為她有好幾個腐爛的老鼠 。
jenny realizes that the only solution is to pull out the bad teeth .	珍妮知道唯一的解決方法就是拉出不好的牙齒 。
she's not licensed for that ; she has never done it .	她不是這樣說的 , 她從來沒有這樣做 。
she risks a lot and she's terrified .	她冒了很多險 , 她嚇壞了 。
she doesn't even have the proper instruments , but fortunately she has brought some novocaine .	她甚至沒有適當的樂器 , 但幸運的是 , 她帶來了一些麻煩 。
jenny has a brave and passionate heart .	珍妮有勇氣和熱情心 。
she murmurs a prayer and she goes ahead with the operation .	她把禱告交給禱告 , 繼續手術前進 。
at the end , the relieved patient kisses her hands .	最後 , 病人鬆了一口氣 , 親吻她的手 。
that day the hygienist pulls out many more teeth .	那天衛生學家抽出更多的牙齒 。
the next morning , when she comes again to the socalled clinic , her first patient is waiting for her with her husband .	隔天早上 , 當她再次到所謂的診所時 , 她的第一個病人正在和她的丈夫等著她 。
the woman's face looks like a watermelon .	這位女士的臉看起來像是一個水母 。
it is so swollen that you can't even see the eyes .	它的腫大到你看不見眼睛 。
the husband , furious , threatens to kill the american .	丈夫、憤怒、威脅要殺害美國人 。
jenny is horrified at what she has done , but then the translator explains that the patient's condition has nothing to do with the operation .	珍妮對她所做的事感到害怕 , 但接著 , 翻譯解釋病人的狀況和操作無關 。
the day before , her husband beat her up because she was not home in time to prepare dinner for him .	前一天 , 她丈夫打她起床 , 因為她不在家準備晚餐 。
millions of women live like this today .	今天有數百萬的女性像這樣生活 。
they are the poorest of the poor .	他們是最貧窮的人 。
although women do twothirds of the world's labor , they own less than one percent of the world's assets .	雖然全世界的勞動力有三分之二女性 , 但她們擁有不到百分之一的資產 。
they are paid less than men for the same work if they're paid at all , and they remain vulnerable because they have no economic independence , and they are constantly threatened by exploitation , violence and abuse .	他們的薪水比男人少 , 如果他們付錢 , 他們仍然脆弱 , 因為他們沒有經濟獨立 , 他們會不斷受到剝削、暴力和虐待的威脅 。
it is a fact that giving women education , work , the ability to control their own income , inherit and own property , benefits the society .	事實上 , 給予婦女教育、工作、控制自己的收入、繼承、擁有自己的財產、受益於社會 。
if a woman is empowered , her children and her family will be better off .	如果一個女人被賦予權力 , 她的孩子和家人就會更好 。
if families prosper , the village prospers , and eventually so does the whole country .	如果家人繁榮 , 村落繁榮 , 最終 , 整個國家也是如此 。
wangari maathai goes to a village in kenya .	wangarimaathai去肯亞的村子 。
she talks with the women and explains that the land is barren because they have cut and sold the trees .	她和婦女談 , 解釋土地是很荒謬的 , 因為他們已經砍了樹 , 賣了樹木 。
she gets the women to plant new trees and water them , drop by drop .	她讓女性種植新樹和水 , 下落 。
in a matter of five or six years , they have a forest , the soil is enriched , and the village is saved .	五、六年之內 , 他們有一片森林 , 土壤充滿豐富 , 村落也存了下來 。
the poorest and most backward societies are always those that put women down .	最貧窮和最後退的社會 , 總是那些讓女性下台的人 。
yet this obvious truth is ignored by governments and also by philanthropy .	然而 , 這個明顯的事實卻被政府忽略 , 也被慈善事業忽略了 。
for every dollar given to a women's program , 20 dollars are given to men's programs .	每給婦女專案的每一塊錢 , 有20塊美金給男性專案 。
women are 51 percent of humankind .	女性是51%的人類 。
empowering them will change everything more than technology and design and entertainment .	賦予他們力量 , 改變一切 , 遠勝於科技、設計和娛樂 。
i can promise you that women working together linked , informed and educated can bring peace and prosperity to this forsaken planet .	我可以向各位保證 , 婦女們合作 , 連結、知情和教育 , 可以帶來和平和和繁榮 , 帶給這個脆弱的地球 。
in any war today , most of the casualties are civilians , mainly women and children . they are collateral damage .	在任何戰爭中 , 大部分的傷亡都是平民 , 主要是婦女和兒童 。 他們是負面的傷害 。
men run the world , and look at the mess we have .	男人經營世界 , 看看我們面臨的混亂 。
what kind of world do we want ?	我們想要什麼樣的世界 ?
this is a fundamental question that most of us are asking .	這是一個我們大部分人都在問的基本問題 。
does it make sense to participate in the existing world order ?	是否合理地參與現有的世界秩序 ?
we want a world where life is preserved and the quality of life is enriched for everybody , not only for the privileged .	我們想要一個保存生命和生活品質的世界 , 能讓每個人更富有 , 不只給予特權 。
in january i saw an exhibit of fernando botero's paintings at the uc berkeley library .	在一月 , 我看到費南多•波特羅在加州大學柏克萊圖書館的畫作 。
no museum or gallery in the united states , except for the new york gallery that carries botero's work , has dared to show the paintings because the theme is the abu ghraib prison .	在美國 , 沒有博物館或畫廊 , 除了紐約畫廊 , 波特羅的作品 , 還敢展示這幅畫 , 因為主題是阿布格萊布監獄 。
they are huge paintings of torture and abuse of power , in the voluminous botero style .	它們是巨大的折磨和濫用權力的畫作 , 在巨大的botero風格中 。
i have not been able to get those images out of my mind or my heart .	我無法從我的心中或心中得到這些影像 。
what i fear most is power with impunity .	我最害怕的是權力 。
i fear abuse of power , and the power to abuse .	我害怕權力濫用 , 以及虐待的力量 。
in our species , the alpha males define reality , and force the rest of the pack to accept that reality and follow the rules .	在我們的物種中 , 雄性領袖定義了現實 , 迫使其他群體接受現實並遵守規則 。
the rules change all the time , but they always benefit them , and in this case , the trickledown effect , which does not work in economics , works perfectly .	規則會隨時改變 , 但它們總是受益 , 在這個例子中 , 棘手的效應 , 在經濟上是行不通的 。
abuse trickles down from the top of the ladder to the bottom .	虐待從梯子的頂端滲透到底部 。
women and children , especially the poor , are at the bottom .	女人和孩子 , 尤其是窮人 , 都在最底層 。
even the most destitute of men have someone they can abuse a woman or a child .	即使是最多男性 , 她們也能虐待女人或小孩 。
i'm fed up with the power that a few exert over the many through gender , income , race , and class .	我充滿了少數的力量 , 透過性別、收入、種族、階級 , 和階級 。
i think that the time is ripe to make fundamental changes in our civilization .	我認為 , 時間是對我們文明的基本改變 。
but for real change , we need feminine energy in the management of the world .	但 , 為了真正的改變 , 我們需要女性化的能量來管理世界 。
we need a critical number of women in positions of power , and we need to nurture the feminine energy in men .	我們需要一群婦女在權力的位置上 , 我們需要培養男性女性化的能量 。
i'm talking about men with young minds , of course .	當然 , 我在說的是有年輕心智的人 。
old guys are hopeless ; we have to wait for them to die off .	老人是無望的 , 我們得要等他們死去 。
yes , i would love to have sophia loren's long legs and legendary breasts .	沒錯 , 我很想有蘇菲雅的長腿和傳奇的胸部 。
but given a choice , i would rather have the warrior hearts of wangari maathai , somaly mam , jenny and rose mapendo .	但 , 為了選擇 , 我寧願有勇氣的心臟 , 天瑪麗•馬塔伊 , 蘇曼 , 珍妮和玫瑰地圖 。
i want to make this world good .	我想讓這個世界變得更好 。
not better , but to make it good .	不是更好 , 而是要讓它更好 。
why not ? it is possible . look around in this room all this knowledge , energy , talent and technology .	為什麼不 ? 它是可能的 。 看看這個房間裡的所有知識、能量、才華和科技 。
let's get off our fannies , roll up our sleeves and get to work , passionately , in creating an almost perfect world .	讓我們脫離我們的粉絲 , 捲起袖子 , 去工作 , 熱情地創造一個幾乎完美的世界 。
every day , in a city the size of london , 30 million meals are served . but where does all the food come from ? architect carolyn steel discusses the daily miracle of feeding a city , and shows how ancient food routes shaped the modern world .	每一天 , 在倫敦的大小 , 有三千萬份餐 , 但 , 所有食物來自哪裡 ? 建築師史黛爾在討論要餵飽一個城市的日常奇蹟 , 展示出古老的食物路線如何影響現代世界 。
cities , culture , food , global issues	城市、文化、食物、全球議題、全球議題 。
carolyn steel: how food shapes our cities	卡羅琳•史黛爾:食物如何塑造我們的城市 , 如何塑造我們的城市 。
how do you feed a city ?	你要如何餵飽一個城市 ?
it's one of the great questions of our time .	這是我們這個時代最偉大的問題之一 。
yet it's one that's rarely asked .	但卻很少被問到 。
we take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant , or indeed into this theater's foyer in about an hour's time , there is going to be food there waiting for us , having magically come from somewhere .	我們把它視為理所當然 , 如果我們去一間商店或餐廳 , 或在一個小時的戲院裡 , 會在那裡等待我們 , 神奇地來自某處 。
but when you think that every day for a city the size of london , enough food has to be produced , transported , bought and sold , cooked , eaten , disposed of , and that something similar has to happen every day for every city on earth , it's remarkable that cities get fed at all .	但當你認為 , 每一天 , 一個像倫敦一樣大的城市 , 足夠的食物必須被生產、運輸、購買、吃飯、廢棄物 , 同樣的事 , 對於世界上的每一座城市 , 都必須有很了不起的意義 。
we live in places like this as if they're the most natural things in the world , forgetting that because we're animals and that we need to eat , we're actually as dependent on the natural world as our ancient ancestors were .	我們生活在像這樣的地方 , 彷彿他們是世界上最自然的事物 , 因為我們是動物 , 也是我們需要吃的 , 我們其實是依賴自然的祖先 。
and as more of us move into cities , more of that natural world is being transformed into extraordinary landscapes like the one behind me it's soybean fields in mato grosso in brazil in order to feed us .	隨著更多人進入城市 , 更多的自然世界被轉化成非凡的地景 , 像我身後的那一塊 , 位在巴西的馬托格羅索的大豆田 , 為了餵飽我們 。
these are extraordinary landscapes , but few of us ever get to see them .	這些是不可思議的地景 , 但我們當中少數人能看到它們 。
and increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either .	越來越多的景觀 , 不僅僅是餵飽我們 。
as more of us move into cities , more of us are eating meat , so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals .	隨著我們進入城市 , 越來越多人在吃肉 , 全球每年有三分之一的穀物被餵給動物 , 而非我們人類的動物 。
and given that it takes three times as much grain actually ten times as much grain to feed a human if it's passed through an animal first , that's not a very efficient way of feeding us .	由於它需要三倍的穀物實際上是十倍的穀物來餵飽人類如果它是先通過動物的話那不是非常有效率的餵食方式
and it's an escalating problem too .	這也是一個不斷增加的問題 。
by 2050 , it's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities .	到2050年 , 據估計 , 我們將會住在城市中的兩倍 。
and it's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed .	估計也會有兩倍的肉和奶類消耗 。
so meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand .	所以 , 肉和城市主義正在崛起 。
and that's going to pose an enormous problem .	這將會是一個巨大的問題 。
six billion hungry carnivores to feed , by 2050 .	到2050年 , 飢餓的食肉動物會餵飽六十億 。
that's a big problem . and actually if we carry on as we are , it's a problem we're very unlikely to be able to solve .	這是個大問題 。 如果我們繼續這樣下去 , 我們就不可能解決這個問題了 。
nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land .	每年有九千萬公頃的雨林消失 , 造成新的可耕地 。
although at the same time we're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion .	儘管我們同時失去了相當多的既有的可耕種性 , 來將海水化和侵蝕降低 。
we're very hungry for fossil fuels too .	我們也對化石燃料非常渴望 。
it takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the west .	要花十卡路里才能產出我們西方的每一卡路里 。
and even though there is food that we are producing at great cost , we don't actually value it .	儘管我們有很大成本生產的食物 , 我們其實不太重視它 。
half the food produced in the usa is currently thrown away .	美國有一半的食物產量正在被丟棄 。
and to end all of this , at the end of this long process , we're not even managing to feed the planet properly .	為了結束這一切 , 在這個長期的過程結束時 , 我們甚至無法妥當地供應食物給地球 。
a billion of us are obese , while a further billion starve .	十億人是肥胖的 , 而更長的十億人是肥胖的 。
none of it makes very much sense .	這一切都沒有道理 。
and when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations , it's a grim picture .	當你認為 , 全球80%的食物交易現在只由五家跨國企業控制 , 這是一張很可怕的照片 。
as we're moving into cities , the world is also embracing a western diet .	當我們進入城市時 , 世界也在擁抱西方的飲食 。
and if we look to the future , it's an unsustainable diet .	如果我們看看未來 , 它是種不穩定的飲食 。
so how did we get here ?	所以 , 我們是怎麼來到這裡的 ?
and more importantly , what are we going to do about it ?	更重要的是 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , to answer the slightly easier question first , about 10 , 000 years ago , i would say , is the beginning of this process in the ancient near east , known as the fertile crescent .	首先 , 稍微簡單一點的回答 , 大約一萬年前 , 我會說 , 是這個過程的開端 , 在古老的東方 , 被稱為肥沃土壤 。
because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .	因為 , 如你所見 , 它是克萊斯的形狀 。
and it was also fertile .	它也很肥沃 。
and it was here , about 10 , 000 years ago , that two extraordinary inventions , agriculture and urbanism , happened roughly in the same place and at the same time .	大約在一萬年前 , 這裡有兩項非凡的發明 , 農業和城市主義 , 發生在同一個地方 , 同時也是如此 。
this is no accident , because agriculture and cities are bound together . they need each other .	這不是意外 , 因為農業和城市是互相連結的 , 他們需要彼此 。
because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements .	因為這是我們古老的祖先第一次發現穀物 , 產生出足夠大且穩定的食物來源 , 足以支撐永久的居住地 。
and if we look at what those settlements were like , we see they were compact .	如果我們看看這些定居處是什麼樣子 , 我們會看到它們是同伴 。
they were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at ur , that were , in fact , effectively , spiritualized , central food distribution centers .	它們被農田包圍 , 被大型寺廟主宰 , 像是烏爾的這一個 , 實際上 , 實際上 , 被心靈化 , 中央食物分佈中心所主宰 。
because it was the temples that organized the harvest , gathered in the grain , offered it to the gods , and then offered the grain that the gods didn't eat back to the people .	因為那是神殿組織了收成的神殿 , 聚集在穀物上 , 將它送給神 , 然後給神們吃不了的穀物 。
so , if you like , the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them .	所以 , 如果你喜歡 , 這些城市的整個靈性和身體生活都是由穀物和收成的 。
and in fact , that's true of every ancient city .	事實上 , 每個古老的城市都是如此 。
but of course not all of them were that small .	但當然不是全部都這麼小 。
famously , rome had about a million citizens by the first century a . d .	著名的是 , 羅馬在第一世紀時就有大約一百萬名公民 。
so how did a city like this feed itself ?	所以 , 像這樣的城市是怎麼養的 ?
the answer is what i call " ancient food miles . "	答案是我稱之為 「 古老的食物里程 」 。
basically , rome had access to the sea , which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away .	基本上 , 羅馬可以取得海洋 , 讓它能在很遠的距離取得進口糧食 。
this is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world , because it was very difficult to transport food over roads , which were rough .	這是唯一能在古代世界做這件事的方式 , 因為在道路上 , 要運送食物是非常困難的 。
and the food obviously went off very quickly .	食物顯然很快就開始了 。
so rome effectively waged war on places like carthage and egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves .	所以羅馬有效地為像卡特和埃及這樣的地方爭取戰爭 , 只為了讓它停在他們的穀物上 。
and , in fact , you could say that the expansion of the empire was really sort of one long , drawn out militarized shopping spree , really .	事實上 , 你可以說 , 帝國的擴張是非常漫長的 , 用軍事化的購物速度 , 真的是如此 。
in fact i love the fact , i just have to mention this: rome in fact used to import oysters from london , at one stage . i think that's extraordinary .	事實上 , 我很喜歡這個事實 , 我只需要提一下:羅馬曾經是從倫敦到倫敦的牡蠣 。 我認為這很了不起 。
so rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite .	所以羅馬形塑了它的暗落 , 通過它的食慾 。
but the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the preindustrial world .	但有趣的是 , 另一件事也發生在工業前的世界 。
if we look at a map of london in the 17th century , we can see that its grain , which is coming in from the thames , along the bottom of this map .	如果我們看一下十七世紀倫敦的地圖 , 我們可以看到它的穀物 , 它的穀物是從這張地圖的底部來的 。
so the grain markets were to the south of the city .	所以 , 穀物市場就在城市南方 。
and the roads leading up from them to cheapside , which was the main market , were also grain markets .	道路從它們變成廉價 , 主要的市場也是穀物市場 。
and if you look at the name of one of those streets , bread street , you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago .	如果你看看其中一條街道的名字 , 布雷德街 , 你可以在300年前知道那裡發生了什麼事 。
and the same of course was true for fish .	當然 , 對魚來說也是如此 。
fish was , of course , coming in by river as well . same thing .	當然 , 魚也是靠河流進來的 。
and of course billingsgate , famously , was london's fish market , operating onsite here until the mid1980s .	當然 , billgate , 著名的 , 是倫敦的魚市場 , 直到1980年代中期 。
which is extraordinary , really , when you think about it .	這真是不可思議 , 真的 , 仔細想想 。
everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port .	所有人都在用手機散步 , 看起來像是磚塊 , 有點像是在港口發生的煙囪魚 。
this is another thing about food in cities: once its roots into the city are established , they very rarely move .	這是城市中食物的另一件事:一旦根植入城市就會被建立起來 , 他們就很少移動 。
meat is a very different story because , of course , animals could walk into the city .	肉類是非常不同的 , 因為 , 當然 , 動物可以走進城市 。
so much of london's meat was coming from the northwest , from scotland and wales .	倫敦大部分的肉來自西北部蘇格蘭和威爾斯 。
so it was coming in , and arriving at the city at the northwest , which is why smithfield , london's very famous meat market , was located up there .	所以它進入了 , 到達了西北的城市 , 這就是為什麼史密斯菲爾德 , 倫敦著名的肉市場 , 位在那裏 。
poultry was coming in from east anglia and so on , to the northeast .	家禽從東加利亞來到東北部 。
i feel a bit like a weather woman doing this . anyway , and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes .	不管怎樣 , 我感覺有點像一位天氣女子 , 鳥兒們就來到他們的腳上 , 用小的帆布來保護 。
and then when they hit the eastern end of cheapside , that's where they were sold , which is why it's called poultry .	當他們到達廉價的東邊時 , 他們就被賣掉了 , 這就是為什麼它會被稱為 「 模仿 」 。
and , in fact , if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age , you can trace food coming in to it .	事實上 , 如果你看任何一個城市在工業時代之前建立的地圖 , 你可以追蹤食物進來 。
you can actually see how it was physically shaped by food , both by reading the names of the streets , which give you a lot of clues .	你可以看到它的身體形狀 , 無論是閱讀街道的名字 , 都可以給你很多線索 。
friday street , in a previous life , is where you went to buy your fish on a friday .	星期五街 , 以前你在星期五去買魚 。
but also you have to imagine it full of food .	但同時你也要想像它充滿食物 。
because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold .	因為街道和公共空間是唯一食物被賣掉的地方 。
and if we look at an image of smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from .	如果我們看一下1830年史密斯菲爾德的圖像 , 你可以看到 , 在像這樣的城市生活是非常困難的 , 不知你的食物從何而來 。
in fact , if you were having sunday lunch , the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier .	事實上 , 如果你有星期天午餐 , 可能在三天前你窗外流浪或在你窗外流浪 。
so this was obviously an organic city , part of an organic cycle .	這顯然是一個有機城市 , 一個有機循環的一部分 。
and then 10 years later everything changed .	十年後 , 一切都改變了 。
this is an image of the great western in 1840 .	這是1840年的大西部大西部的照片 。
and as you can see , some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep .	如你所見 , 最早的火車乘客是豬和羊 。
so all of a sudden , these animals are no longer walking into market .	突然間 , 這些動物不再走進市場 。
they're being slaughtered out of sight and mind , somewhere in the countryside .	他們被從視覺和心智中屠殺 , 在鄉下的某處 。
and they're coming into the city by rail .	他們是以鐵路來到城市的 。
and this changes everything .	這改變了一切 。
to start off with , it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities , really any size and shape , in any place .	首先 , 首次要種植城市 , 大小和形狀 , 在任何地方 。
cities used to be constrained by geography ; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means .	過去 , 城市被地理限制 ; 過去他們必須透過非常困難的實體來取得食物 。
all of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography .	突然間 , 他們從地理上有效地解放 。
and as you can see from these maps of london , in the 90 years after the trains came , it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot , and so on , to a large splurge , that would be very , very difficult to feed with anybody on foot , either animals or people .	如你所見 , 從倫敦的地圖來看 , 在火車經過的90年後 , 它從一個小小的小小點 , 由動物在腳上餵食 , 至於一個巨大的噴泉 , 非常非常難以滿足任何人 , 動物或人類 。
and of course that was just the beginning . after the trains came cars , and really this marks the end of this process .	當然 , 這只是開端 。 火車來了 , 真的是這整個過程的終點 。
it's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all .	這是城市的最後一個解放 , 完全從大自然的任何明顯關係中解放 。
and this is the kind of city that's devoid of smell , devoid of mess , certainly devoid of people , because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape .	這是一種沒有嗅覺、缺乏混亂的城市 , 肯定沒有人 , 因為沒有人會夢想走在這樣的地景中 。
in fact , what they did to get food was they got in their cars , drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts , came back with a week's worth of shopping , and wondered what on earth to do with it .	事實上 , 他們為了得到食物的成果是他們在車子上開車到外面的一個盒子上 , 帶著一週的購物回來 , 想知道地球上要怎麼做 。
and this really is the moment when our relationship , both with food and cities , changes completely .	此時此刻 , 我們與食物和城市的關係 , 完全改變了 。
here we have food that used to be the center , the social core of the city at the periphery .	以前我們有食物是市中心 , 市區的社會核心 。
it used to be a social event , buying and selling food .	它以前是社交活動 , 購買和賣食物 。
we used to cook ; now we just add water , or a little bit of an egg if you're making a cake or something .	我們以前會煮飯 , 只要加水 , 或加一點點蛋 , 只要你做蛋糕或其他東西 。
we don't smell food to see if it's okay to eat .	我們不會聞到食物 , 看看它是否可以吃 。
we just read the back of a label on a packet .	我們只是讀一個包裝後面的標籤 。
and we don't value food . we don't trust it .	我們不重視食物 。 我們不信任它 。
so instead of trusting it , we fear it .	所以 , 我們不再相信它 , 而是害怕它 。
and instead of valuing it , we throw it away .	而不是在評估它 , 而是丟掉它 。
one of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder .	現代食品系統的諷刺之處在於他們已經做出了他們承諾要讓它變得更容易 。
by making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place , they've actually distanced us from our most important relationship , which is that of us and nature .	藉由讓城市在任何地方或任何地方 , 它們都能讓我們遠離我們最重要的關係 , 也就是我們和大自然 。
and also they've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver , that , as we've seen , are unsustainable .	此外 , 它們也讓我們依賴只有它們能傳遞的系統 , 如我們所見 , 它們是不可持續的 。
so what are we going to do about that ?	所以 , 我們該怎麼做 ?
it's not a new question .	這不是一個新問題 。
500 years ago it's what thomas more was asking himself .	五百年前 , 湯瑪斯更多問自己 。
this is the frontispiece of his book " utopia . "	這是他的《烏托邦》這本書的首映 。
and it was a series of semiindependent citystates , if that sounds remotely familiar , a day's walk from one another where everyone was basically farmingmad , and grew vegetables in their back gardens , and ate communal meals together , and so on .	這是一系列半自主的城市如果這聽起來很熟悉 , 某個日子的人會從一個地方走出來 , 在那裡基本上每個人都是農場養殖民者 , 在他們的後花園中種植蔬菜 , 吃下午餐等等 。
and i think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of utopia , even though more never framed it that way .	我認為你可以說食物是烏托邦的基本規則即使更別把食物分成那樣
and here is another very famous " utopian " vision , that of ebenezer howard , " the garden city . "	還有另外一個著名的 「 烏托邦 」 視覺 , 埃比沙尼茲霍華 , 「 花園城市 」 。
same idea: series of semiindependent citystates , little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around , joined to one another by railway .	同樣的想法是:半自主城市 , 小型的大都市 , 附近有可耕地 , 加入了鐵路 。
and again , food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision .	同樣的 , 食物可以被說是他視覺的順序原則 。
it even got built , but nothing to do with this vision that howard had .	它甚至被建造出來了 , 但和霍華德的視野一點關係都沒有 。
and that is the problem with these utopian ideas , that they are utopian .	這就是這些烏托邦的想法 , 他們是烏托邦 。
utopia was actually a word that thomas moore used deliberately .	烏托邦其實是湯瑪斯•摩爾刻意使用的詞 。
it was a kind of joke , because it's got a double derivation from the greek .	這是個笑話 , 因為它是從希臘來的兩倍衍生的 。
it can either mean a good place , or no place .	它可能意味著一個好地方 , 或沒有地方 。
because it's an ideal . it's an imaginary thing . we can't have it .	因為它是理想的 , 它是想像的 。 我們不能擁有它 。
and i think , as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling , that makes it not much use .	我認為 , 作為一個概念工具 , 來思考人類的極深問題 , 讓它不太有用 。
so i've come up with an alternative , which is sitopia , from the ancient greek , " sitos " for food , and " topos " for place .	所以我想出了一個替代方案 , 來自西托邦 , 古希臘 , 「 西托 」 供食物和 「 波斯 」 。
i believe we already live in sitopia .	我相信我們已經生活在西托邦 。
we live in a world shaped by food , and if we realize that , we can use food as a really powerful tool a conceptual tool , design tool , to shape the world differently .	我們生活在一個由食物塑造的世界 , 如果我們意識到 , 我們能用食物作為一個強大的工具 , 一個有力的概念工具 , 設計工具 , 來形塑世界 。
so if we were to do that , what might sitopia look like ?	所以如果我們這樣做 , 西托邦看起來會是什麼樣子 ?
well i think it looks a bit like this .	我想這看起來有點像這樣 。
i have to use this slide . it's just the look on the face of the dog .	我得用這張投影片 , 只不過是狗的臉 。
but anyway , this is it's food at the center of life , at the center of family life , being celebrated , being enjoyed , people taking time for it .	但無論如何 , 這是食物在生活中心 , 在家庭生活的中心 , 被讚頌、享受、享受、花點時間 。
this is where food should be in our society .	這就是食物應該在我們的社會裡 。
but you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this .	但除非你有像這樣的人 , 你就不可能有這樣的場景 。
by the way , these can be men as well .	順道一提 , 這些也可以是男人 。
it's people who think about food , who think ahead , who plan , who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them .	它是那些思考食物的人 , 想著 , 誰計劃 , 誰可以盯著一堆原始蔬菜 , 並且認可他們 。
we need these people . we're part of a network .	我們需要這些人 , 我們是網路的一部分 。
because without these kinds of people we can't have places like this .	因為如果沒有這些人 , 我們就不可能有這樣的場所 。
here , i deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable .	在這裡 , 我故意選這個 , 因為它是一個男人買蔬菜 。
but networks , markets where food is being grown locally .	但網絡 , 食物本地生長的市場 。
it's common . it's fresh .	它很常見 , 很新鮮 。
it's part of the social life of the city .	它是城市社會生活的一部分 。
because without that , you can't have this kind of place , food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape , and is not just a zerosum commodity off in some unseen hellhole .	因為 , 若沒有這樣 , 你就不能有這種地方 , 當地生長的食物 , 也是地景的一部分 , 而不只是零和商品 , 在一些未知的地獄中 。
cows with a view .	牛的觀點是 。
steaming piles of humus .	一堆混合物 。
this is basically bringing the whole thing together .	這基本上是把整個東西整合在一起 。
and this is a community project i visited recently in toronto .	這是我最近在多倫多拜訪的一個社區計畫 。
it's a greenhouse , where kids get told all about food and growing their own food .	這是一間溫室 , 孩子們會告訴所有關於食物和種植食物的東西 。
here is a plant called kevin , or maybe it's a plant belonging to a kid called kevin . i don't know .	這裡有一株叫做凱文的植物 , 或許是植物屬於一個叫凱文的孩子 。 我不知道 。
but anyway , these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important .	但無論如何 , 這些計畫試圖和大自然重新連結 , 非常重要 。
so sitopia , for me , is really a way of seeing .	所以 , 對我來說 , 希托邦是種看法 。
it's basically recognizing that sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere .	基本上 , 西托邦已經在各處存在了小口袋裡 。
the trick is to join them up , to use food as a way of seeing .	訣竅是要加入它們 , 把食物當作一種看法 。
and if we do that , we're going to stop seeing cities as big , metropolitan , unproductive blobs , like this .	如果我們這樣做 , 我們將會停止把城市視為大型、大都會、不生產力的大型城市 , 像這樣 。
we're going to see them more like this , as part of the productive , organic framework of which they are inevitably a part , symbiotically connected .	我們將看到它們更像這樣 , 作為有生產力、有機架構的一部分 , 它們是無可避免的一部分 , 相同的連結 。
but of course , that's not a great image either , because we need not to be producing food like this anymore .	但當然 , 這也不是一個偉大的圖像 , 因為我們不需要再像這樣生產食物 。
we need to be thinking more about permaculture , which is why i think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing .	我們需要更深入思考永續文化 , 這就是為什麼我認為這張圖只是總結一下我們需要做的事 。
it's a reconceptualization of the way food shapes our lives .	它是重新思考食物如何塑造我們的生活的方式 。
the best image i know of this is from 650 years ago .	我所知道最棒的圖像是650年前 。
it's ambrogio lorenzetti's " allegory of good government . "	阿布羅吉歐•洛倫澤蒂的《好政府的寓言》 。
it's about the relationship between the city and the countryside .	重點是城市和鄉村之間的關係 。
and i think the message of this is very clear .	我認為這個訊息非常明確 。
if the city looks after the country , the country will look after the city .	如果城市照顧這個國家 , 這個國家會照顧這個城市 。
and i want us to ask now , what would ambrogio lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today ?	我現在要問我們 , 阿布羅吉歐•洛倫澤蒂是否能畫出這張照片 ?
what would an allegory of good government look like today ?	今天美好政府的寓言會是什麼樣子 ?
because i think it's an urgent question .	因為我認為這是一個急迫的問題 。
it's one we have to ask , and we have to start answering .	這是我們必須問的 , 我們必須開始回答 。
we know we are what we eat .	我們知道我們在吃什麼 。
we need to realize that the world is also what we eat .	我們需要了解到 , 世界也是我們所吃的 。
but if we take that idea , we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better .	但如果我們採用這個想法 , 我們就可以把食物當作一個非常強大的工具來形塑世界更好 。
weeks from the charter for compassion launch , karen armstrong looks at religion's role in the 21st century: will its dogmas divide us ? or will it unite us for common good ? she reviews the catalysts that can drive the world's faiths to rediscover the golden rule .	數週後 , 同情心發射 , 卡倫•阿姆斯壯觀察宗教在21世紀扮演的角色:它的教義會分裂我們嗎 ? 或者它會使我們團結在一起 ? 她會審視世界上的催化劑 , 來重新發現黃金法則 。
god , ted prize , global issues , politics , religion , tedglobal2009 , violence	上帝 , ted的獎、全球議題、政治、宗教、tedglobal-2009、暴力 。
karen armstrong: let's revive the golden rule	卡倫•阿姆斯壯:讓我們重現黃金法則 。
for years i've been feeling frustrated , because as a religious historian , i've become acutely aware of the centrality of compassion in all the major world faiths .	多年來 , 我感到挫敗 , 因為身為宗教歷史學家 , 我漸漸意識到 , 同情心的中心性 , 在世界的主要信仰中 。
every single one of them has evolved their own version of what's been called the golden rule .	每一位都演化出他們自己的 「 黃金法則 」 的版本 。
sometimes it comes in a positive version " always treat all others as you'd like to be treated yourself . "	有時它會出現一個正面的版本: 「 總是把他人當成你想治療自己的方式 。 」
and equally important is the negative version " don't do to others what you would not like them to do to you . "	同樣重要的是負面的版本: 「 不要對別人做你不希望他們做的事 。 」
look into your own heart , discover what it is that gives you pain and then refuse , under any circumstance whatsoever , to inflict that pain on anybody else .	看看你自己的心 , 發現你的痛苦是什麼 , 然後拒絕 , 在任何情況下 , 在任何情況下 , 將痛苦給任何其他人 。
and people have emphasized the importance of compassion , not just because it sounds good , but because it works .	人們強調的是同情心的重要性 , 不只是因為它聽起來很好 , 也因為它有效 。
people have found that when they have implemented the golden rule as confucius said , " all day and every day , " not just a question of doing your good deed for the day and then returning to a life of greed and egotism , but to do it all day and every day , you dethrone yourself from the center of your world , put another there , and you transcend yourself .	人們發現 , 當他們把黃金法則當成混亂 , 說: 「 整天和每一天 」 , 不只是做好事 , 然後回到貪婪和自我主義的一生 , 每天都要做 , 把自己從世界的中心擺脫出來 , 然後超越你自己 。
and it brings you into the presence of what's been called god , nirvana , rama , tao .	它將你帶入了被稱為神的存在 , 尼爾瓦拉、拉馬、tao 。
something that goes beyond what we know in our egobound existence .	超越我們所知的存在 。
but you know you'd never know it a lot of the time , that this was so central to the religious life .	但你知道你從來不知道 , 這對宗教生活是如此的核心 。
because with a few wonderful exceptions , very often when religious people come together , religious leaders come together , they're arguing about abstruse doctrines or uttering a council of hatred or inveighing against homosexuality or something of that sort .	因為有了一些很棒的例外 , 宗教團體聚在一起 , 宗教領袖聚集在一起 , 他們爭論的是荒誕的教條 , 或說出仇恨的議會 , 或對抗同性戀或其他類型的人 。
often people don't really want to be compassionate .	通常 , 人們並不想要有同情心 。
i sometimes see when i'm speaking to a congregation of religious people a sort of mutinous expression crossing their faces because people often want to be right instead .	有時 , 我會看到我在和宗教聚會談話時 , 有點像是跨越他們的臉 , 因為人們通常會想要是對的 。
and that of course defeats the object of the exercise .	當然 , 這也打敗了運動的物體 。
now why was i so grateful to ted ?	我為什麼很感激ted ?
because they took me very gently from my booklined study and brought me into the 21st century , enabling me to speak to a much , much wider audience than i could have ever conceived .	因為他們很溫柔地從我的書籍研究帶我進入21世紀 , 讓我能和一個更廣泛的觀眾說話 。
because i feel an urgency about this .	因為我對此感到急迫 。
if we don't manage to implement the golden rule globally , so that we treat all peoples , wherever and whoever they may be , as though they were as important as ourselves , i doubt that we'll have a viable world to hand on to the next generation .	如果我們無法在全球執行黃金法則 , 這樣我們就能對待所有人 , 不論他們在哪裡 , 不論他們在哪裡 , 都一樣重要 , 我懷疑我們會有一個可實現的世界 , 來接近下一代 。
the task of our time , one of the great tasks of our time , is to build a global society , as i said , where people can live together in peace .	我們這個時代的任務之一 , 就是要建立一個全球社會 , 如我所說 , 在那裡 , 人們可以在和平生活 。
and the religions that should be making a major contribution are instead seen as part of the problem .	而應該要做出重大貢獻的宗教 , 卻被視為是問題的一部分 。
and of course it's not just religious people who believe in the golden rule .	當然 , 不只是宗教信仰黃金法則的人 。
this is the source of all morality , this imaginative act of empathy , putting yourself in the place of another .	這是所有道德的來源 , 這種想像力的行為 , 把你自己放在另一個地方 。
and so we have a choice , it seems to me .	所以 , 我們有一個選擇 , 似乎對我來說 。
we can either go on bringing out or emphasizing the dogmatic and intolerant aspects of our faith , or we can go back to the rabbis . rabbi hillel , the older contemporary of jesus , who , when asked by a pagan to sum up the whole of jewish teaching while he stood on one leg , said , " that which is hateful to you , do not do to your neighbor .	我們要不就是要把我們信仰的教義和包容的觀點提醒 , 要不我們回到拉比 。 拉比希爾 , 古老的耶穌 , 當他在一條腿上總結猶太教時 , 說: 「 這對你是很討厭的 , 不要對你的鄰居做事 。
that is the torah and everything else is only commentary . "	那就是 「 塔拉 」 和 「 一切都只是評論 」 。
and the rabbis and the early fathers of the church who said that any interpretation of scripture that bred hatred and disdain was illegitimate .	教堂早期的rabbis和早期的父親說 , 任何與討厭的劇本的詮釋都是違法的 。
and we need to revive that spirit .	我們需要重生那種精神 。
and it's not just going to happen because a spirit of love wafts us down .	這不只是因為愛的靈魂讓我們失望 。
we have to make this happen , and we can do it with the modern communications that ted has introduced .	我們必須讓這一切發生 , 並且我們可以用現代的溝通來實現ted介紹 。
already i've been tremendously heartened at the response of all our partners .	我已經對我們所有夥伴的反應感到極大的鼓舞 。
in singapore , we have a group going to use the charter to heal divisions recently that have sprung up in singaporean society , and some members of the parliament want to implement it politically .	在新加坡 , 我們有一個團體最近要用章節來治療新加坡社會的癒合分裂 , 議會中的一些成員想在政治上實施它 。
in malaysia , there is going to be an art exhibition in which leading artists are going to be taking people , young people , and showing them that compassion also lies at the root of all art .	在馬來西亞 , 將會有一個藝術展覽 , 領導的藝術家將會帶領人們、年輕人 , 並展現出同情心在所有藝術的根源上 。
throughout europe , the muslim communities are holding events and discussions , are discussing the centrality of compassion in islam and in all faiths .	在整個歐洲 , 穆斯林群體正在舉辦活動和討論 , 都是在討論伊斯蘭和所有信仰中的同情心中心 。
but it can't stop there . it can't stop with the launch .	但它不能停止 。 它不能停止發射 。
religious teaching , this is where we've gone so wrong , concentrating solely on believing abstruse doctrines .	宗教教義 , 這是我們錯了的地方 , 只靠信仰absstruse的教義 。
religious teaching must always lead to action .	宗教教導一定會導致行動 。
and i intend to work on this till my dying day .	我打算在臨終日工作 。
and i want to continue with our partners to do two things educate and stimulate compassionate thinking .	我想繼續和我們的另一半做兩件事 , 教育和刺激同情心 。
education because we've so dropped out of compassion .	教育因為我們已經失去了同情心 。
people often think it simply means feeling sorry for somebody .	人們常常認為這意味著對某人感到遺憾 。
but of course you don't understand compassion if you're just going to think about it .	但 , 當然 , 如果你只是想一想的話 , 你不會了解同情心 。
you also have to do it .	你也必須做到 。
i want them to get the media involved because the media are crucial in helping to dissolve some of the stereotypical views we have of other people , which are dividing us from one another .	我希望他們能參與媒體 , 因為媒體是很重要的 , 協助我們解開一些我們有的人的刻板印象 , 把我們隔開 。
the same applies to educators .	教育者也適用於教學
i'd like youth to get a sense of the dynamism , the dynamic and challenge of a compassionate lifestyle .	我希望年輕人能了解動態、動態和挑戰同情的生活方式 。
and also see that it demands acute intelligence , not just a gooey feeling .	此外 , 它也需要敏銳的智慧 , 不只是感覺美好的感覺 。
i'd like to call upon scholars to explore the compassionate theme in their own and in other people's traditions .	我想打電話給學者 , 來探索他們自己的同情心主題 , 以及其他人的傳統 。
and perhaps above all , to encourage a sensitivity about uncompassionate speaking , so that because people have this charter , whatever their beliefs or lack of them , they feel empowered to challenge uncompassionate speech , disdainful remarks from their religious leaders , their political leaders , from the captains of industry .	最重要的是 , 鼓勵不熱情說話的敏感度 , 如此一來 , 人們有這個特徵 , 不論他們的信念或缺乏信仰 , 他們會覺得有能力去挑戰不熱情的言論、不穩定的言論 , 來自他們的宗教領袖、政治領袖、他們的政治領袖 。
because we can change the world , we have the ability .	因為我們可以改變世界 , 我們有能力 。
i would never have thought of putting the charter online .	我從來沒想過要把章節放上網 。
i was still stuck in the old world of a whole bunch of boffins sitting together in a room and issuing yet another arcane statement .	我仍然被困在舊的世界裡 , 一大堆的芬蘭人坐在一個房間裡 , 同時也在說另一個語音 。
and ted introduced me to a whole new way of thinking and presenting ideas .	ted向我介紹一個全新的思維和呈現想法 。
because that is what is so wonderful about ted .	因為這就是ted的美好之處 。
in this room , all this expertise , if we joined it all together , we could change the world .	在這個房間裡 , 所有這些專業知識 , 如果我們全部加在一起 , 我們就能改變世界 。
and of course the problems sometimes seem insuperable .	當然 , 有時 , 問題似乎是不可思議的 。
but i'd just like to quote , finish at the end with a reference to a british author , an oxford author whom i don't quote very often , c . s . lewis .	但我想要引用 , 最後的結尾是英國作家 , 一位牛津作家 , 我不常引用c.路易斯的話 。
but he wrote one thing that stuck in my mind ever since i read it when i was a schoolgirl .	但他寫了一件事 , 自從我讀書時 , 一直困在我心中 。
it's in his book " the four loves . "	它在他的書《四個愛》中 。
he said that he distinguished between erotic love , when two people gaze , spellbound , into each other's eyes .	他說他分辨了愛情 , 當兩個人凝視著咒語時 , 彼此之間的眼睛 。
and then he compared that to friendship , when two people stand side by side , as it were , shoulder to shoulder , with their eyes fixed on a common goal .	接著 , 他把這和友誼比較 , 當兩個人站在旁邊 , 肩膀肩膀時 , 眼睛被固定在一個共同的目標上 。
we don't have to fall in love with each other , but we can become friends .	我們不必要愛上彼此 , 但我們可以成為朋友 。
and i am convinced .	我深信 。
i felt it very strongly during our little deliberations at vevey , that when people of all different persuasions come together , working side by side for a common goal , differences melt away .	我感覺它非常強烈 , 在我們在vevey的小調查中 , 當所有不同說服的人聚在一起 , 一起工作 , 一個共同的目標時 , 差異會融化 。
and we learn amity .	我們也學會了 「 性 」 。
and we learn to live together and to get to know one another .	我們學會一起生活 , 認識彼此 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝大家
david macaulay relives the winding and sometimes surreal journey toward the completion of rome antics , his illustrated homage to the historic city .	davidmacauly改造了風 , 有時 , 超現實的旅程 , 朝著羅密西斯的競賽之旅邁進 , 他在歷史城市中描繪了同性戀 。
macarthur grant , art , arts , book , cities , communication , culture , design , entertainment , humor , storytelling	macarthurgant、藝術、書、城市、溝通、文化、設計、娛樂、幽默 , 說故事 , 說故事 。
i draw to better understand things .	我畫的是更好的理解事物 。
sometimes i make a lot of drawings and i still don't understand what it is i'm drawing .	有時候我畫了很多畫 , 我仍然不知道我在畫什麼 。
those of you who are comfortable with digital stuff and even smug about that relationship might be amused to know that the guy who is best known for " the way things work , " while preparing for part of a panel for called understanding , spent two days trying to get his laptop to communicate with his new cd burner .	在座的各位 , 對於數位化的東西感到自在 , 甚至對那段感情可能很迷人 , 知道 「 事物運作 」 最為人知的那個人 , 為 「 理解 」 做準備 , 花了兩天的時間 , 試著讓他的筆電和他的新cdburner溝通 。
who knew about extension managers ?	誰知道延伸經理 ?
i've always managed my own extensions so it never even occurred to me to read the instructions , but i did finally figure it out . i had to figure it out , because along with the invitation came the frightening reminder that there would be no projector , so bringing those carousels would no longer be necessary but some alternate form of communication would .	我一直以來都在管理自己的延伸 , 這樣我才不會去讀指示 , 但我終於知道了 。 我得想出了 , 因為我必須想出 , 因為隨著邀請來了 , 讓我想到沒有投影機 , 把那些旋律帶到不必要的情況下去 , 而是一些其他溝通的形式 。
now , i could talk about something that i'm known for , something that would be particularly appropriate for many of the more technically minded people here , or i could talk about something i really care about .	現在 , 我可以談談我所知道的一些事 , 特別適合在許多更技術層面的人身上 , 或者我可以談談我真正在乎的事物 。
i decided to go with the latter .	我決定要去看看後者 。
i'm going to talk about rome .	我要來談談羅馬 。
now , why would i care about rome , particularly ?	我為什麼要特別關心羅馬呢 ?
well , i went to rhode island school of design in the second half of the '60s to study architecture .	嗯 , 我去了rhode島設計學院 , 60年代後半數是研究建築的 。
i was lucky enough to spend my last year , my fifth year , in rome as a student . it changed my life .	我很幸運 , 去年 , 我的第五年 , 羅馬當學生 。 這改變了我的人生 。
not the least reason was the fact that i had spent those first four years living at home , driving into risd everyday , driving back .	不是因為我花了前四年待在家 , 每天開車到risd , 開車回家 。
i missed the '60s . i read about them ; i understand they were pretty interesting . i missed them , but i did spend that extraordinary year in rome , and it's a place that is never far from my mind .	我忽略了1960年代 , 我讀了他們 , 我了解他們很有趣 。 我錯過了他們 , 但我真的花了那年在羅馬 , 這個地方從我腦海都不遠 。
so , whenever given an opportunity , i try to do something in it or with it or for it .	所以 , 每當有機會時 , 我都會試著去做一些事 , 或用它來做 。
i also make drawings to help people understand things .	我也畫畫來幫助人們理解事物 。
things that i want them to believe i understand .	我希望他們能相信我能理解的事物 。
and that's what i do as an illustrator , that's my job .	這是我作為一個插圖師所做的 , 那是我的工作 。
so , i'm going to show you some pictures of rome .	所以 , 我要給你們看一些羅馬的照片 。
i've made a lot of drawings of rome over the years .	多年來 , 我畫了很多羅馬 。
these are just drawings of rome . i get back as often as possible i need to .	這些只是羅馬的畫作 。 我越頻繁地回去 。
all different materials , all different styles , all different times , drawings from sketchbooks looking at the details of rome .	各式各樣的材料 , 各種不同的風格 , 各式各樣的草圖 , 看看羅馬的細節 。
part of the reason i'm showing you these is that it sort of helps illustrate this process i go through of trying to figure out what it is i feel about rome and why i feel it .	我給你們看的原因之一 , 是它可以幫助我解釋這個過程 , 我試著去了解我對於羅馬的感受 , 以及我為什麼會感覺到它 。
these are sketches of some of the little details .	這些是一些細節的草圖 。
rome is a city full of surprises .	羅馬是一個充滿驚喜的城市 。
i mean , we're talking about unusual perspectives , we're talking about narrow little winding streets that suddenly open into vast , sundrenched piazzas never , though , piazzas that are not humanly scaled .	我的意思是 , 我們在談的是不尋常的觀點 , 我們在談的是狹窄的風力小街 , 突然地打開到浩瀚中 , 被陽光遮蔽的披薩 , 永遠不會 , 那些沒有人性擴張的帕薩拉斯 。
part of the reason for that is the fact that they grew up organically .	原因之一是他們在有機長大 。
that amazing juxtaposition of old and new , the bits of light that come down between the buildings that sort of create a map that's traveling above your head of usually blue especially in the summer compared to the map that you would normally expect to see of conventional streets .	這種驚人的對比 , 古老和新鮮的 , 來自於建築物之間的光線 , 形成了一張地圖 , 通常是藍色的地圖 , 特別是在夏天 , 相較於你平常會看到傳統的街道 。
and i began to think about how i could communicate this in book form .	我開始思考我如何用書籍來溝通這件事 。
how could i share my sense of rome , my understanding of rome ?	我要如何分享我對羅馬的了解 , 我對羅馬的理解 ?
and i'm going to show you a bunch of dead ends , basically .	基本上 , 我要給你們看一堆死路 。
the primary reason for all these dead ends is when if you're not quite sure where you're going , you're certainly not going to get there with any kind of efficiency .	這些死去的主要理由是當你不太確定你要去哪裡時 , 你肯定不會去到任何高效率的地方 。
here's a little map . and i thought of maps at the beginning ; maybe i should just try and do a little atlas of my favorite streets and connections in rome .	這是一張小小的地圖 , 我在一開始想著地圖也許我應該試試看我最愛的街道和羅馬的連結
and here's a line of text that actually evolves from the exhaust of a scooter zipping across the page .	這裡有一系列的文字 , 其實是從剪刀的延伸到橫跨頁面的延伸出來的 。
here that same line of text wraps around a fountain in an illustration that can be turned upside down and read both ways .	同樣的文字在噴泉周圍繞著一圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈圈
maybe that line of text could be a story to help give some human aspect to this .	也許這一行的文字可以是一個故事 , 來協助給予一些人性的觀點 。
maybe i should get away from this map completely , and really be honest about wanting to show you my favorite bits and pieces of rome and simply kick a soccer ball in the air which happens in so many of the squares in the city and let it bounce off of things . and i'll simply explain what each of those things is that the soccer ball hits .	也許我應該完全脫離這張地圖 , 坦誠地說 , 想要給你們看我最愛的部分和羅馬的部分 , 只是踢一顆足球 , 在城市中的許多平方中會發生 , 讓它從物體中彈下來 。 我會簡單的解釋一下 , 球球球會撞擊什麼 。
that seemed like a sort of a cheap shot .	看似很便宜的畫面 。
but even though i just started this presentation , this is not the first thing that i tried to do and i was getting sort of desperate .	但即使我剛開始這個簡報 , 這不是我試圖做的第一件事 , 我也有點絕望 。
eventually , i realized that i had really no content that i could count on , so i decided to move towards packaging .	最終 , 我意識到我沒有任何內容可以依靠 , 所以我決定去包裝 。
i mean , it seems to work for a lot of things .	我的意思是 , 它似乎是有用的 。
so i thought a little box set of four small books might do the trick .	所以我想了一組四本小書的小盒子 , 可能會做這個技巧 。
but one of the ideas that emerged from some of those sketches was the notion of traveling through rome in different vehicles at different speeds in order to show the different aspects of rome .	但其中一個想法是從一些草圖中浮現出來的 , 就是在不同的速度旅行羅馬旅遊 , 以展示羅馬的不同面向 。
sort of an overview of rome and the plan that you might see from a dirigible .	有點像是羅馬和你所看到的計劃 。
quick snapshots of things you might see from a speeding motor scooter , and very slow walking through rome , you might be able to study in more detail some of the wonderful surfaces and whatnot that you come across .	快速的拍攝你可能從快速的摩托車禍中看到的事物 , 慢慢地穿過羅馬 , 你可能可以更仔細地研究一些奇妙的表面 , 以及你所遇到的狀況 。
anyways , i went back to the dirigible notion .	無論如何 , 我回到了 「 可辨識 」 的概念 。
went to alberto santosdumont .	去了亞伯托•桑托斯頓特 。
found one of his dirigibles that had enough dimensions so i could actually use it as a scale that i would then juxtapose with some of the things in rome .	找到他有足夠維度的其中一種 , 讓我可以把它當作一個尺度 , 用來和羅馬的一些東西混合在一起 。
this thing would be flying over or past or be parked in front of , but it would be like having a ruler sort of travel through the pages without being a ruler .	這東西會飛越或過去 , 或在前面停車 , 但它就像是有統治者穿越了頁面 , 而不是統治者 。
not that you know how long number 11 actually is , but you would be able to compare number 11 against the pantheon with number 11 against the baths of caracalla , and so on and so forth . if you were interested .	不是你知道第11實際上有多久 , 但你能夠和萬神廟的第11個對比 , 和卡拉卡拉的浴室做比較 , 諸如此類 。 如果你感興趣的話 。
this is beatrix . she has a dog named ajax , she has purchased a dirigible a small dirigible she's assembling the structure , ajax is sniffing for holes in the balloon before they set off .	這是beatrix 。 她有隻叫ajax的狗 , 她買了一台很小的飛行器 , 她組裝了這個結構 , ajax在氣球上聞到漏洞的味道 。
she launches this thing above the spanish steps and sets off for an aerial tour of the city .	她在西班牙階梯上推出這個東西 , 為城市的空中巡迴演出 。
over the spanish steps we go .	橫跨西班牙階段 。
a nice way to show that river , that stream sort of pouring down the hill .	展現這條河 , 河流有點像倒下山丘 。
unfortunately , just across the road from it or quite close by is the column of marcus aurelius , and the diameter of the dirigible makes an impression , as you can see , as she starts trying to read the story that spirals around the column of marcus aurelius gets a little too close , nudges it .	不幸的是 , 在路上或距離很近的地方 , 是馬可•阿里斯的柱子 , 而鑽石的直徑造成了令人印象深刻 , 如你所見 , 當她開始閱讀馬庫斯圓柱周圍的螺旋結構時 , 奧里斯變得太靠近了 , 推著它 。
this gives me a chance to suggest to you the structure of the column of marcus aurelius , which is really no more than a pile of quarters high thick quarters . over the piazza of saint ignacio , completely ruining the symmetry , but that aside a spectacular place to visit .	這給了我一個機會 , 建議馬可•阿里斯的圓柱結構 , 這其實不是一堆高厚的四分之一 。 在聖喬納西亞的偏遠地區 , 完全摧毀了對稱性 , 但除此之外 , 除了造訪了一塊美麗的地方 。
a spectacular framework , inside of which you see , usually , extraordinary blue sky .	一個壯觀的架構 , 在裡面 , 通常是非常不凡的藍天 。
over the pantheon and the 26foot diameter oculus .	在萬神殿和第26英尺的直徑中 。
she parks her dirigible , lowers the anchor rope and climbs down for a closer look inside .	她停下了自己的飛行裝置 , 降低了弦繩子 , 爬下去 , 靠近一點看內部 。
the text here is right side and upside down so that you are forced to turn the book around , and you can see it from ground point of view and from her point of view looking in the hole , getting a different kind of perspective , moving you around the space . particularly appropriate in a building that can contain perfectly a sphere dimensions of the diameter being the same as the distance from the center of the floor to the center of the oculus .	這裡的文字是對的側邊 , 所以你被迫把書轉過來 , 你可以看到它從地面的視角 , 從洞的角度來看 , 得到不同的觀點 , 特別適合在一棟大樓裡 , 直徑的角度和距離相同 。
unfortunately for her , the anchor line gets tangled around the feet of some boy scouts who are visiting the pantheon , and they are immediately yanked out and given an extraordinary but terrifying tour of some of the domes of rome , which would , from their point of view , naturally be hanging upside down .	很不幸的是 , 連接線被綁在一些小孩子的腳上 , 探訪了萬神廟 , 他們馬上就被擠出來 , 出去了不凡又嚇人的旅程 , 那些羅馬的主題 , 從他們的角度來看 , 很自然地 , 被吊死了 。
they bail out as soon as they get to the top of saint ivo , that little spiral structure you see there .	他們一到達聖伊娃的頂端 , 就會在那兒看到螺旋結構 。
she continues on her way over piazza navona .	她在路上穿越了皮亞薩納維娜 。
notices a lot of activity at the tre scalini restaurant , is reminded that it is lunchtime and she's hungry .	注意到在trecarini餐廳裡很多活動 , 都提醒它是午餐時間 , 且她餓了 。
they keep on motoring towards the campo de' fiori , which they soon reach . ajax the dog is put in a basket and lowered with a list of food into the marketplace , which flourishes there until about one in the afternoon , and then is completely removed and doesn't appear again until six or seven the following morning .	他們繼續前進柬埔寨的fiori , 很快就會到達 。 ajax把狗放進籃子裡 , 下載一份食物到市場上 , 直到下午一個 , 然後完全消失 , 直到下午六到七點 。
anyway , the pooch gets back to the dirigible with the stuff .	總之 , 糞便會被這些東西吸引回去 。
unfortunately , when she goes to unwrap the prosciutto , ajax makes a lunge for it .	不幸的是 , 當她去解開原始人時 , ajax會為它做午餐 。
she's managed to save the prosciutto , but in the process she loses the tablecloth , which you can see flying away in the upper lefthand corner .	她成功地拯救了原住民 , 但在這個過程中 , 她失去了桌巾 , 你可以看到在左上角飛走 。
they continue without their tablecloth , looking for a place to land this thing so that they can actually have lunch .	他們不用桌布繼續下去 , 尋找一個地方降落這個地方 , 讓他們可以吃午餐 。
they eventually discover a huge wall that's filled with small holes , ideal for docking a dirigible because you've got a place to tie up .	他們最終發現一個充滿了小洞的巨牆 , 理想的做法 , 因為你有一個地方可以綁起來 。
turns out to be the exterior wall that part of it that remains of the coliseum , so they park themselves there and have a terrific lunch and have a spectacular view .	結果發現 , 外牆的一部分還留在哥倫比亞 , 所以他們把自己停在那裡 , 吃了一頓很棒的午餐 , 看得很棒 。
at the end of lunch , they untie the anchor , they set off through the baths of caracalla and over the walls of the city and then an abandoned gatehouse and decide to take one more look at the pyramid of cestius , which has this lightning rod on top .	在午餐結束時 , 他們打開了主管 , 他們打開了卡拉卡拉的浴室 , 穿越城市的牆壁 , 然後一個廢棄的大門 , 決定再看一下cestius的金字塔 , 上面有一條閃電路 。
unfortunately , that's a problem: they get a little too close , and when you're in a dirigible you have to be very careful about spikes .	不幸的是 , 這是個問題:它們太靠近了 , 當你在潛水中時 , 你必須非常小心地想起尖峰 。
so that sort of brings her little story to a conclusion .	所以這有點像是把她小故事帶到一個結論中 。
marcello , on the other hand , is sort of a lazy guy , but he's not due at work until about noon .	另一方面 , 馬賽洛是個懶惰的人 , 但他一直都在工作 , 直到下午 。
so , the alarm goes off and it's five to 12 or so .	所以 , 警報響起 , 大概有五到十二歲 。
he gets up , leaps onto his scooter , races through the city past the church of santa maria della pace , down the alleys , through the streets that tourists may be wandering through , disturbing the quiet backstreet life of rome at every turn .	他站起來 , 躍上他的摩托車 , 越過城市 , 越過聖塔瑪利亞的教堂 , 走下巷子 , 穿過街頭遊走 , 每次都在羅馬的安靜生活 。
that speed with which he is moving , i hope i have suggested in this little image , which , again , can be turned around and read from both sides because there's text on the bottom and text on the top , one of which is upside down in this image .	他正在移動的速度 , 我希望我在這張小圖片中提到 , 再一次 , 可以從兩邊轉過來閱讀 , 因為上面有文字 , 上面有文字 , 其中一張圖片上下顛倒了 。
so , he keeps on moving , approaching an unsuspecting waiter who is trying to deliver two plates of linguine in a delicate white wine clam sauce to diners who are sitting at a table just outside of a restaurant in the street .	所以 , 他繼續前進 , 接近一個毫無疑問的服務員 , 他試圖在一個很細緻的白葡萄酒蛤醬上遞送兩塊口味 , 讓坐在餐廳外面的晚餐 。
waiter catches on , but it's too late .	服務生抓住了 , 但太遲了 。
and marcello keeps moving in his scooter .	馬歇爾多繼續走下去 。
everything he sees from this point on is slightly affected by the linguine , but keeps on moving because this guy's got a job to do .	所有他在這個時點所看到的一切 , 都受到語言的影響 , 但繼續下去 , 因為這個人有工作要做 。
removes some scaffolding . one of the reasons rome remains the extraordinary place it is that because of scaffolding and the determination to maintain the fabric , it is a city that continues to grow and adapt to the needs of the particular time in which it finds itself , or we find it .	除去一些支架 。 羅馬仍然是如此特別的地方之一 , 因為支架和決心要維持布料 , 這個城市持續成長和適應特定時間的需求 。
right through the piazza della rotonda , in front of the pantheon again wreaking havoc and finally getting to work .	就在潘薩•德拉達面前 , 在萬神殿前 , 又再次破壞了 , 終於成功了 。
marcello , as it turns out , is the driver of the number 64 bus , and if you've been on the number 64 bus , you know that it's driven with the same kind of exuberance as marcello demonstrated on his scooter .	結果發現 , 馬賽洛的驅動力是64輛巴士的駕駛 , 如果你上過了64輛巴士 , 你知道它的驅動力和馬爾賽羅的摩托車一樣 。
and finally carletto . you see his apartment in the upper lefthand corner .	最後是卡萊托 。 你看到他在左上角的公寓 。
he's looking at his table ; he's planning to propose this evening to his girlfriend of 40 years , and he wants it to be perfect .	他在看他的桌子 , 計劃今晚要向他的女朋友建議這個晚上40年的桌子 , 他希望它能完美 。
he's got candles out , he's got flowers in the middle and he's trying to figure out where to put the plates and the glasses .	他有蠟燭 , 中間有花 , 他在想辦法把盤子和玻璃放在哪裡 。
but he's not happy ; something's wrong .	但他並不快樂 , 有些問題 。
the phone rings anyway , he's called to the palazzo .	總之 , 電話響了 , 他被叫到palazo 。
he saunters he saunters at a good clip , but as compared to all the traveling we've just seen , he's sauntering .	他在一支好的短片中挑選 , 但比起我們剛才所看到的旅行 , 他在反射 。
everybody knows carletto , because he's in entertainment , actually ; he's in television .	大家都知道卡萊托 , 因為他在娛樂中 , 其實他在電視上 。
he's actually in television repair , which is why people know him .	他其實是在電視修復中 , 這就是為什麼大家知道他 。
so they all have his number .	所以他們都有他的數字 。
he arrives at the palazzo , arrives at the big front door .	他到達了帕拉zo , 到達了大門 。
enters the courtyard and talks to the custodian , who tells him that there's been a disaster in the palazzo ; nobody's tvs are working and there's a big soccer game coming up , and the crowd is getting a little restless and a little nervous .	進入法庭院 , 和顧客交談 , 他告訴他 , 在巴拉西有一場災難 ; 沒有人在電視上有一場大型的足球比賽 , 群眾變得有點無休止 , 有點緊張 。
he goes down to the basement and starts to check the wiring , and then gradually works his way up to the top of the building , apartment by apartment , checking every television , checking every connection , hoping to find out what this problem is .	他下到地下室 , 開始檢查電線 , 然後逐漸地工作 , 到建築的頂端 , 透過公寓檢查 , 檢查每個電視 , 檢查所有連線 , 希望能找出這個問題的結果 。
he works his way up , finally , the grand staircase and then a smaller staircase until he reaches the attic .	終於 , 他爬上了大樓梯 , 爬上了小樓梯 , 直到他抵達了閣樓 。
he opens the window of the attic , of course , and there's a tablecloth wrapped around the building's television antenna .	他打開閣樓的窗戶 , 當然 , 有一張桌布包圍在大樓的電視天線上 。
he removes it , the problems are solved , everybody in the palazzo is happy .	他移除它 , 問題解決了 , 巴拉zo的所有人都很快樂 。
and of course , he also solves his own problem .	當然 , 他也解決了他自己的問題 。
all he has to do now , with a perfect table , is wait for her to arrive .	他現在只需要做一個完美的桌子 , 等著她來到這裡 。
that was the first attempt , but it didn't seem substantial enough to convey whatever it was i wanted to convey about rome .	那是第一個嘗試 , 但似乎還不夠實質 , 來傳達我想要傳達的關於羅馬的意見 。
so i thought , well , i'll just do piazzas , and i'll get inside and underneath and i'll show these things growing and show why they're shaped the way they are and so on .	所以我想 , 嗯 , 我來做帕亞薩斯 , 下面我會展示這些東西在成長 , 展示它們為何會塑造它們的樣子等等 。
and then i thought , that's too complicated . no , i'll just take my favorite bits and pieces and i'll put them inside the pantheon but keep the scale , so you can see the top of sant'ivo and the pyramid of cestius and the tempietto of bramante all side by side in this amazing space .	然後我想 , 這太複雜了 。 不 , 我會把我最喜歡的部分和碎片放進去 , 把它們放進萬神殿裡 , 這樣你就可以看見聖誕節的頂端和c-stius的金字塔 , 在這神奇的空間中 。
now that's one drawing , so i thought maybe it's time for piranesi to meet escher .	這是一幅畫 , 所以我想也許是該見escher的時候了 。
you see that i'm beginning to really lose control here and also hope .	你可以看到 , 我開始真的失去控制權 , 也開始失去希望 。
there's a very thin blue line of exhaust that sort of runs through this thing that would be kind of the trail that holds it all together .	這裡有一條非常薄的藍色線 , 一路穿過這個東西 , 有點像是把它們整合在一起的軌跡 。
then i thought , " wait a minute , what am i doing ? "	然後我想: 「 等等 , 我在做什麼 ? 」
a book is not only a neat way of collecting and storing information , it's a series of layers .	一本書不僅是收集和儲存資訊的方式 , 而是一系列的層次 。
i mean , you always peel one layer off another ; we think of them as pages , doing it a certain way .	我的意思是 , 你總是把一層剝離另一層 , 我們認為它們是頁面 , 以某種方式做 。
but think of them as layers . i mean , rome is a place of layers horizontal layers , vertical layers and i thought , well just peeling off a page would allow me to if i got you thinking about it the right way would allow me to sort of show you the depth of layers .	但把他們想成一層層 。 我的意思是 , 羅馬是一個層層層的水平層 , 垂直層 , 我心想 , 只要把一頁剝離一頁 , 就會讓我想 , 若我用正確的方式 , 讓我可以向你展示一層的深度 。
the stucco on the walls of most of the buildings in rome covers the scars ; the scars of centuries of change as these structures have been adapted rather than being torn down .	羅馬大廈的牆壁上 , 大部分的建築都覆蓋著疤痕 , 數世紀以來 , 改變的疤痕已經被改造 , 而不是被摧毀 。
if i do a foldout page on the lefthand side and let you just unfold it , you see behind it what i mean by scar tissue .	如果我在左手邊做摺紙 , 讓你展開它 , 你可以看到我所謂的 「 疤組織 」 的背後 。
you can see that in 1635 , it became essential to make smaller windows because the bad guys were coming or whatever .	你可以看到 , 在1635年 , 製造小窗戶是必要的 , 因為壞傢伙來了 , 不管怎麼樣 。
adaptations all get buried under the stucco .	適應系統都被埋在黏土下 。
i could peel out a page of this palazzo to show you what's going on inside of it .	我可以把這一頁的巴拉zo給你看看裡面發生了什麼事 。
but more importantly , i could also show you what it looks like at the corner of one of those magnificent buildings with all the massive stone blocks , or the fake stone blocks done with brick and stucco , which is more often the case .	但更重要的是 , 我還可以向你們展示 , 那些偉大的建築的角落 , 上面有著巨大的石塊 , 或用磚塊做假石塊 , 通常是這樣 。
so it becomes slightly threedimensional .	所以它變得有點三維 。
i could take you down one of those narrow little streets into one of those surprising piazzas by using a double gate fold double foldout page which , if you were like me reading a popup book as a child , you hopefully stick your head into .	我可以把你們其中一條狹窄的小街帶到其中一個令人驚訝的比賽中 , 用一雙雙折疊的頁面 , 如果你像我小時候一樣 , 你希望能把你的頭伸進去 。
you wrap the pages around your head and are in that piazza for that brief period of time .	你把你的頭包裹起來 , 在那短暫的時期 。
and i've really not done anything much more complicated than make foldout pages .	我真的沒有做任何更複雜的事情 , 比摺疊頁面更複雜 。
but then i thought , maybe i could be simpler here .	但我想 , 也許我可以更簡單一點 。
let's look at the pantheon and the piazza della rotonda in front of it .	咱們來看看萬神殿和帕亞薩•德拉 , 就在它面前 。
here's a book completely wide open .	這是一本完全開放的書 。
ok , if i don't open the book the whole way , if i just open it 90 degrees , we're looking down the front of the pantheon , and we're looking sort of at the top , more or less down on the square .	好 , 如果我不打開這本書 , 如果我打開它90度 , 我們就在下面的萬神廟 , 我們就在向上看 , 在廣場上下看 。
and if i turn the book the other way , we're looking across the square at the front of the pantheon .	如果我轉換這本書 , 我們在萬神廟前面看到的正方形 。
no foldouts , no tricks just a book that isn't open the whole way .	沒有摺疊 , 沒有把戲 , 只是一本不打開的書 。
that seemed promising . i thought , maybe i'll do it inside and i can even combine the foldouts with the only partially opened book .	這聽起來很有希望 。 我想 , 也許我可以在裡面做 , 我甚至可以把摺疊技術和唯一的開放書結合起來 。
so we get inside the pantheon and it grows and so on and so forth .	所以 , 我們進到萬神廟裡 , 它會不斷成長 , 等等 。
and i thought , maybe i'm on the right track , but it sort of lost its human quality .	我想 , 也許我在正確的軌道上 , 但它有點失去了人類的特質 。
so i went back to the notion of story , which is always a good thing to have if you're trying to get people to pay attention to a book and pick up information along the way .	所以我回到故事的概念 , 如果你想讓大家注意一本書 , 一路上收集資訊 , 總是一件好事 。
" pigeon's progress " struck me as a catchy title .	「 鴿子的進步 」 把我當作 「 抓住 」 標題 。
if it was a homing pigeon , it would be called " homer's odyssey . "	如果這隻鴿子叫作荷馬的奧德西 "
but it was the journey of the . . .	但那是那段旅程......
i mean , if a title works , use it . but it would be a journey that went through rome and showed all the things that i like about rome .	我的意思是 , 如果一個標題能用 , 但這將會是一段旅程 , 經過羅馬 , 展現我喜歡的羅馬 。
it's a pigeon sitting on top of a church .	這是一隻鴿子坐在教堂的上方 。
goes off during the day and does normal pigeon stuff . comes back , the whole place is covered with scaffolding and green netting and there's no way this pigeon can get home .	白天時 , 做正常的鴿子 , 回來 , 整個地方充滿了支架和綠色的網絡 , 這隻鴿子不可能回家了 。
so it's a homeless pigeon now and it's going to have to find another place to live , and that allows me to go through my catalog of favorite things , and we start with the tall ones and so on .	它現在是無家可歸的鴿子 , 它必須找到另一個居住的地方 , 這樣我才能穿越我最喜歡的目錄 , 我們就從高處開始 。
maybe it has to go back and live with family members ; that's not always a good thing , but it does sort of bring pigeons together again .	也許它必須回到家裡和家人住在一起 , 那不一定是件好事 , 但它會再次把鴿子帶回來 。
and i thought , that's sort of interesting , but maybe there's a person who should be involved in this in some way .	我心想 , 這有點有趣 , 但也許有個人應該以某種方式參與其中 。
so i kind of came up with this old guy who spends his life looking after sick pigeons .	所以我想出了一個老人 , 他一生都在照顧生病的鴿子 。
he'll go anywhere to get them dangerous places and whatnot and they become really friends with this guy , and learn to do tricks for him and entertain him at lunchtime and stuff like that .	他會到哪裡去找他們危險的地方 , 他們會變成和這傢伙真正的朋友 , 學著為他做技倆 , 在午餐時間和其他地方娛樂他 。
there's a real bond that develops between this old man and these pigeons .	在這個老人和鴿子之間 , 有一個真正的聯繫 。
but unfortunately he gets sick . he gets really sick at the end of the story .	但不幸的是 , 他生病了 。 他在故事結束時真的生病了 。
he's taught them to spell his name , which is aldo .	他被教導要拼他的名字 , 艾爾多 。
they show up one day after three or four days of not seeing him he lives in this little garret and they spell his name and fly around .	三到四天後 , 他們出現了一天 , 他住在這個小garret , 把他的名字拼回去 。
and he finally gets enough strength together to climb up the ladder onto the roof , and all the pigeons , a la red balloon , are there waiting for him and they carry him off over the walls of the city .	他終於得到足夠的力量 , 把梯子爬到屋頂上 , 所有的鴿子 , 紅氣球 , 等著他離開城市的牆壁 。
and i forgot to mention this: whenever he lost a pigeon , he would take that pigeon out beyond the walls of the city .	我忘了提到:每當他失去了鴿子時 , 他就會把那隻鴿子帶到城市的牆外 。
in the old roman custom , the dead were never buried within the walls .	在古羅馬的習俗中 , 死者從來沒有被埋在牆上 。
and i thought that's a really cheery story .	我覺得這個故事真的很特別 。
. that's really going to go a long way .	這真的是很長的一段時間 。
so anyway , i went through . . . and again , if packaging doesn't work and if the stories aren't going anywhere , i just come up with titles and hope that a title will sort of kick me off in the right direction .	總之 , 我經歷了一次 , 如果包裝不成功 , 如果故事不在任何地方 , 我只是想出一個標題 , 希望一個標題能讓我走向正確的方向 。
and sometimes it does focus me enough and i'll even do a title page .	有時它會讓我專注 , 我甚至會做一個標題 。
so , these are all title pages that eventually led me to the solution i settled on , which is the story of a young woman who sends a message on a homing pigeon she lives outside the walls of the city of rome to someone in the city .	所以 , 這些都是標題 , 最終引領我到我定居的解決方案 , 就是一個年輕女子的故事 , 她在羅馬城外面的一面牆上傳訊息給城市中的某個人 。
and the pigeon is flying down above the appian way here .	鴿子在上方飛行 。
you can see the tombs and pines and so on and so forth along the way .	你可以看到這些墓碑和松樹等等 , 一路走來 。
if you see the red line , you are seeing the trail of the pigeon ; if you don't see the red line , you are the pigeon .	如果你看到紅線 , 你可以看到鴿子的軌跡 ; 如果你看不到紅線 , 你就是鴿子 。
and it becomes necessary and possible , at this point , to try to convey what that sense would be like of flying over the city without actually moving .	此時此刻 , 它會變成必要且可能 , 試圖傳達那感官在城市中飛過的是什麼樣子 , 而不動 。
past the pyramid of cestius these will seem very familiar to you , even if you haven't been to rome recently past the gatehouse .	經過cestius的金字塔 , 這些金字塔對你來說是很熟悉的 , 即使你最近還沒去過羅馬 。
this is something that's a little bit unusual .	這有點不尋常 。
this pigeon does something that most homing pigeons do not do: it takes the scenic route , which was a device that i felt was necessary to actually extend this book beyond about four pages .	這隻鴿子做的事 , 大部分的熱鴿都做不到:牠帶著螢幕的路徑 , 這是我覺得要把這本書延伸到四頁以外的裝置 。
so , we circle around the coliseum , past the church of santa maria in cosmedin and the temple of hercules towards the river .	所以 , 我們繞過哥倫比山 , 穿越了聖母堂 , 穿越了哥薩米德州的聖殿 , 以及海克斯的神殿朝著河流前進 。
we almost collide with the cornice of the palazzo farnese designed by michelangelo , built of stone taken from the coliseum narrow escape .	我們幾乎和帕拉茲奧•法蘭基羅設計的環環相撞 , 由羅馬競技場所構成的石頭 。
we swoop down over the campo de' fiori .	我們在柬埔寨的fiori上下旋轉 。
this is one of those things i show to my students because it's a complete bastardization a denial of any rules of perspective .	這是我向我的學生展示的其中一件事 , 因為這是一個完全禁止任何觀點的規則 。
the only rule of perspective that i think matters is if it looks believable , you've succeeded .	我認為唯一重要的規則是它看起來是可信的 , 你成功了 。
but you try and figure out where the vanishing points meet here ; a couple are on mars and a couple of others in cremona .	但你試著弄清楚這裡消失的位置 ; 一對夫妻在火星上 , 和其他的cremona 。
but into the piazza in front of santa maria della pace , where invariably a soccer game is going on , and we're hit by a soccer ball .	但 , 在聖塔瑪麗亞•德拉的前面 , 無可避免的一個足球遊戲正在發生 , 我們被足球撞擊了 。
now this is a terrible illustration of being hit by a soccer ball .	這是被足球撞擊的可怕例子 。
i have all the pieces: there's santa maria della pace , there's a soccer ball , there's a little bit of a bird's wing nothing's happening , so i had to rethink it .	我有所有的碎片:有聖誕老人的步調 , 有足球 , 鳥的翅膀沒有發生什麼事 , 所以我得要重新思考 。
and if you do want to see santa maria della pace , these books are really flexible , incredibly interactive just turn it around and look at it the other way .	如果你真的想看聖誕老人瑪麗亞•德拉的步調 , 這些書很有彈性 , 非常互動 , 只要把它轉過來 , 再看看另一種方式 。
through the alley , we can see the impact is captured in the red line .	透過巷子 , 我們可以看到紅線的影響 。
and then bird manages to pull itself together past this medieval tower one of the few remaining medieval towers towards the church of sant'agnese and around the dome looking down into piazza navona which we've already mentioned and seen and flown over a couple of times ; there's the bernini statue of the four rivers and then past the wonderful borromini sant'ivo , stopping just long enough on the 26foot diameter oculus of the pantheon to catch our breath .	接著 , 鳥類會自行拉過去這個中世紀塔 , 只有少數幾個中世紀的中世紀塔 , 朝聖城教堂前進 , 四個圓頂向下看 , 我們已經看過和流過幾次 ; 伯尼•史托爾特是四條河的聖母大樓 , 經過了這四條河的美妙無邊緣 , 停止了26英呎直徑的萬物直徑來抓住我們的呼吸 。
and then we can swoop inside and around ; and because we're flying , we don't really have to worry about gravity at this particular moment in time , so this drawing can be oriented in any way on the page .	然後我們可以在裡面四處轉動 , 因為我們在飛行 , 我們不用擔心重力在這個時刻 , 不用擔心重力 , 所以這幅圖可以在頁面上隨時隨地移動 。
we get a little exuberant as we pass gesu ; it's not surprising to sort of mimic the architecture in this way .	在我們通過gesu時 , 我們變得有點自豪 ; 不是很讓人驚訝的 , 以這種方式模仿建築 。
past the wonderful wall filled with the juxtaposition that i was talking about ; beautiful carvings set into the walls above the neon " ristorante " sign , and so on .	過去 , 充滿了我所說的美麗的牆壁 , 美麗的雕刻在新生 「 崛起 」 的牆上 , 諸如此類 。
and eventually , we arrive at the courtyard of the palazzo , which is our destination .	最終 , 我們到達了帕拉zo的庭院 , 這是我們的目的地 。
straight up through the courtyard into a little window into the attic , where somebody is working at the drawing board .	直接穿過庭院 , 進入閣樓 , 在那裡有人在畫板工作 。
he removes the message from the leg of the bird ; this is what it says .	他從鳥的腿上取出了訊息 , 這是牠所說的 。
as we look at the drawing board , we see what he's working on is , in fact , a map of the journey that the pigeon has just taken , and the red line extends through all the sights .	看看這幅畫板 , 我們看到他正在做的事 , 事實上 , 這趟鴿子剛拍的旅程地圖 , 紅線穿越了所有的視線 。
and if you want the information , so that we complete this cycle of understanding , all you have to do is read these paragraphs .	如果你想要資訊 , 這樣我們才能完成理解的循環 , 你只需要閱讀這些段落 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝大家
mit researcher skylar tibbits works on selfassembly the idea that instead of building something , we can create materials that build themselves , much the way a strand of dna zips itself together . it's a big concept at early stages ; tibbits shows us three inthelab projects that hint at what a selfassembling future might look like .	麻省理工學院的研究者skylartibbit是自我組裝的概念 , 我們能創造出自身建構的材料 , 大多是dna短片本身的大概念 。 這是個早期的階段 ; tibbit向我們展示了三項以往自我組裝的計畫 。
skylar tibbits: can we make things that make themselves ?	skylartibbit:我們能製造製造自己的東西嗎 ?
today i'd like to show you the future of the way we make things .	今天 , 我想向大家展示我們製造東西的未來 。
i believe that soon our buildings and machines will be selfassembling , replicating and repairing themselves .	我相信很快我們的建築和機器會自我組裝、複製、修復自己 。
so i'm going to show you what i believe is the current state of manufacturing , and then compare that to some natural systems .	所以我要向你們展示我相信目前的製造業狀態 , 然後將它和一些自然系統做比較 。
so in the current state of manufacturing , we have skyscrapers two and a half years [of assembly time] , 500 , 000 to a million parts , fairly complex , new , exciting technologies in steel , concrete , glass .	在目前的製造業狀態 , 我們有摩天大樓 , 兩年半的時間 , 五十萬到一百萬個零件 , 相當複雜、令人興奮的新技術 , 在鋼鐵、混凝土、玻璃 。
we have exciting machines that can take us into space five years [of assembly time] , 2 . 5 million parts .	我們有令人興奮的機器可以帶我們進入太空五年 , 組裝時間有250萬個部分 。
but on the other side , if you look at the natural systems , we have proteins that have two million types , can fold in 10 , 000 nanoseconds , or dna with three billion base pairs we can replicate in roughly an hour .	但另一方面 , 如果你看一下自然系統 , 我們有兩百萬種類型的蛋白質 , 可以在一萬奈秒摺疊 , 或是dna有三十億個鹼基對 , 我們可以在大約一小時內複製 。
so there's all of this complexity in our natural systems , but they're extremely efficient , far more efficient than anything we can build , far more complex than anything we can build .	所以 , 我們自然系統的複雜性 , 但它們是非常有效率的 , 比任何我們能建造的東西還要有效率 , 遠遠比任何我們能建造的東西都還要複雜 。
they're far more efficient in terms of energy .	在能源方面 , 它們的效率更高 。
they hardly ever make mistakes .	他們幾乎無法犯錯 。
and they can repair themselves for longevity .	牠們可以長壽地修復自己 。
so there's something super interesting about natural systems .	所以 , 關於自然系統的超級有趣 。
and if we can translate that into our built environment , then there's some exciting potential for the way that we build things .	如果我們可以將它翻譯成我們的建設環境 , 那麼 , 對於我們建造東西的方式有一些令人興奮的潛力 。
and i think the key to that is selfassembly .	我認為關鍵在於自我組裝 。
so if we want to utilize selfassembly in our physical environment , i think there's four key factors .	所以 , 如果我們想在我們的物理環境中自組裝 , 我想有四個關鍵因子 。
the first is that we need to decode all of the complexity of what we want to build so our buildings and machines .	第一 , 我們需要解碼所有我們想建造的東西的複雜性 , 以便我們的建築和機器 。
and we need to decode that into simple sequences basically the dna of how our buildings work .	我們需要將它解碼成簡單的序列 , 基本上就是我們的建築物如何運作的dna 。
then we need programmable parts that can take that sequence and use that to fold up , or reconfigure .	接著 , 我們需要可編程的零件 , 可以用它來摺疊 , 或重組 。
we need some energy that's going to allow that to activate , allow our parts to be able to fold up from the program .	我們需要一些能量來啟動 , 使我們的零件能夠從程式中摺出來 。
and we need some type of error correction redundancy to guarantee that we have successfully built what we want .	我們需要某種類型的錯誤修正 , 來確保我們成功的建立我們想要的 。
so i'm going to show you a number of projects that my colleagues and i at mit are working on to achieve this selfassembling future .	所以我要給你們看幾個項目 , 我和麻省理工學院的同事正在努力實現這個自我組裝的未來 。
the first two are the macrobot and decibot .	第一個是麥克羅機器人和decibot 。
so these projects are largescale reconfigurable robots 8 ft . , 12 ft . long proteins .	這些計畫是大規模的可重組的機器人 , 8英尺 , 12英尺長的蛋白質 。
they're embedded with mechanical electrical devices , sensors .	它們嵌入了機械電子設備、感應器 。
you decode what you want to fold up into , into a sequence of angles so negative 120 , negative 120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , negative 120 something like that ; so a sequence of angles , or turns , and you send that sequence through the string .	解碼你想要摺疊成一連串的角度 , 負120 , 負120 , 0 , 120 , 120 , 負120 , 負120 , 類似這樣的東西 。 所以一連串的角度 , 就會透過弦 , 將這個序列發送出 。
each unit takes its message so negative 120 it rotates to that , checks if it got there and then passes it to its neighbor .	每單位單位都用它的信息為120它旋轉 , 檢查是否到那裡 , 然後傳給鄰居 。
so these are the brilliant scientists , engineers , designers that worked on this project .	這些是傑出的科學家、工程師、設計師在這個專案上工作 。
and i think it really brings to light: is this really scalable ?	我認為它真的能帶來光明嗎 ?
i mean , thousands of dollars , lots of man hours made to make this eightfoot robot .	我的意思是 , 數千美金 , 許多人小時製造了這個八英尺的機器人 。
can we really scale this up ? can we really embed robotics into every part ?	我們真的能把這個規模擴大嗎 ? 我們真的能把機械人的每一個部分嵌入其中嗎 ?
the next one questions that and looks at passive nature , or passively trying to have reconfiguration programmability .	下一個問題是 「 被動 」 , 或 「 被動地試圖有重組程式性 」 。
but it goes a step further , and it tries to have actual computation .	但它進一步進一步 , 試圖進行實際的計算 。
it basically embeds the most fundamental building block of computing , the digital logic gate , directly into your parts .	它基本上嵌入了計算最基本的基礎 , 數位邏輯門 , 直接進入你的零件中 。
so this is a nand gate .	這是一個nand大門 。
you have one tetrahedron which is the gate that's going to do your computing , and you have two input tetrahedrons .	有一個四面體 , 就是這個門 , 它會做你的電腦運算 , 你有兩個輸入的四面體 。
one of them is the input from the user , as you're building your bricks .	其中一個是來自使用者的輸入 , 因為你正在建造你的磚塊 。
the other one is from the previous brick that was placed .	另外一個是從先前被放置的磚塊 。
and then it gives you an output in 3d space .	然後它會給你一個3d空間的輸出 。
so what this means is that the user can start plugging in what they want the bricks to do .	這意味著 , 使用者可以開始加入他們想要的磚塊 。
it computes on what it was doing before and what you said you wanted it to do .	它計算它之前的做法 , 和你說你想要它做什麼 。
and now it starts moving in threedimensional space so up or down .	現在它開始在三維空間中移動 , 或向下移動 。
so on the lefthand side , [1 , 1] input equals 0 output , which goes down .	在左手邊 , [1、1]輸入等於0輸出 , 結果會下降 。
on the righthand side , [0 , 0] input is a 1 output , which goes up .	在右手邊 , 0 , 輸入是1輸出 , 上升 。
and so what that really means is that our structures now contain the blueprints of what we want to build .	這意味著我們的結構現在包含了我們想建造的東西的藍圖 。
so they have all of the information embedded in them of what was constructed .	所以他們有所有的信息嵌入其中 , 內容是建構出來的 。
so that means that we can have some form of selfreplication .	這意味著我們可以有某種形式的自我複製 。
in this case i call it selfguided replication , because your structure contains the exact blueprints .	在這個案例中 , 我稱它為自動複製 , 因為你的結構包含了精確的藍圖 。
if you have errors , you can replace a part .	如果你有錯誤 , 你可以取代一個部分 。
all the local information is embedded to tell you how to fix it .	所有當地的資訊都被嵌入 , 告訴你如何修復它 。
so you could have something that climbs along and reads it and can output at one to one .	所以你可以有一些可以爬上去讀的東西 , 可以輸出一個到一個 。
it's directly embedded ; there's no external instructions .	它是直接嵌入的 ; 沒有外部的指示 。
so the last project i'll show is called biased chains , and it's probably the most exciting example that we have right now of passive selfassembly systems .	最後一個專案叫做 「 偏見鏈 」 , 它可能是目前最令人興奮的例子 , 我們現在有被動的自組裝系統 。
so it takes the reconfigurability and programmability and makes it a completely passive system .	所以它需要可重組和可程式性 , 讓它成為一個完全被動的系統 。
so basically you have a chain of elements .	基本上你有一連串的元素 。
each element is completely identical , and they're biased .	每個元素都是完全相同的 , 且它們有偏見 。
so each chain , or each element , wants to turn right or left .	每一個鏈 , 或每一個元素 , 都想要轉向右或左轉 。
so as you assemble the chain , you're basically programming it .	所以 , 當你組裝鏈時 , 你基本上是在編寫它 。
you're telling each unit if it should turn right or left .	你要告訴每個單位是否應該左轉或左轉 。
so when you shake the chain , it then folds up into any configuration that you've programmed in so in this case , a spiral , or in this case , two cubes next to each other .	所以 , 當你搖動鏈 , 就會摺疊成任何你編寫的裝置 , 在這個案例中 , 螺旋 , 或在這個案例中 , 兩個立方體 。
so you can basically program any threedimensional shape or onedimensional , twodimensional up into this chain completely passively .	基本上 , 你可以設計任何三維形狀或單元 , 二維 , 完全被動地進入這個鏈中 。
so what does this tell us about the future ?	所以 , 這告訴我們未來是什麼 ?
i think that it's telling us that there's new possibilities for selfassembly , replication , repair in our physical structures , our buildings , machines .	我認為它告訴我們 , 自我組裝、複製、修復我們的實體結構、建築物、機器 。
there's new programmability in these parts .	這些部分有新的可程式性 。
and from that you have new possibilities for computing .	由此你有新的可能性可以用來計算 。
we'll have spatial computing .	我們將會有空間的運算 。
imagine if our buildings , our bridges , machines , all of our bricks could actually compute .	想像一下 , 如果我們的建築物、橋樑、機器 , 我們所有的磚塊都能計算出來 。
that's amazing parallel and distributed computing power , new design possibilities .	那是很了不起的平行和分散式的運算能力 , 新的設計可能性 。
so it's exciting potential for this .	所以這很讓人興奮 。
so i think these projects i've showed here are just a tiny step towards this future , if we implement these new technologies for a new selfassembling world .	所以我認為我在這裡展示的這些專案只是對於未來的一個小步驟 , 如果我們將這些新技術實現一個新的自我組裝的世界 。
we've been to the moon , we've mapped the continents , we've even been to the deepest point in the ocean twice . what's left for the next generation to explore ? biologist and explorer nathan wolfe suggests this answer: almost everything . and we can start , he says , with the world of the unseeably small .	我們去過月球 , 我們繪製了大陸 , 我們也去過海洋中最深的一點 。 下一代要探究的是什麼 ? 生物學家和探險家納森•沃爾夫夫夫夫夫夫斯提出這個答案:幾乎每樣東西 。 然後我們開始 , 他可以說 , 帶著一個極小的世界 。
biodiversity , exploration , microbiology , science	生物多樣性、探索、微生物學、科學、科學、科學、科學 。
nathan wolfe: what's left to explore ?	nathanwolfe:還有什麼可以探索的 ?
recently i visited beloit , wisconsin .	最近我拜訪了威斯康辛州的貝洛特 。
and i was there to honor a great 20th century explorer , roy chapman andrews .	我在那裡榮耀一位偉大的20世紀探險家羅伊•查普曼•安德魯斯 。
during his time at the american museum of natural history , andrews led a range of expeditions to uncharted regions , like here in the gobi desert .	在他美國自然歷史博物館的時期 , 安德魯斯帶領一系列的探險領域 , 來揭開未知的區域 , 例如戈壁沙漠 。
he was quite a figure .	他算是個數字 。
he was later , it's said , the basis of the indiana jones character .	他後來被說是印第安納瓊斯角色的基礎 。
and when i was in beloit , wisconsin , i gave a public lecture to a group of middle school students .	當我在威斯康辛州 , 我向一群中學學生公開演講 。
and i'm here to tell you , if there's anything more intimidating than talking here at ted , it'll be trying to hold the attention of a group of a thousand 12yearolds for a 45minute lecture .	我來這裡是要告訴各位 , 如果在ted演講中比在ted這裡更嚇人 , 它會試著把一千二百二百二十五分鐘的小朋友的注意力集中在45分鐘的講座上 。
at the end of the lecture they asked a number of questions , but there was one that's really stuck with me since then .	演講結束後 , 他們問了幾個問題 , 但從那時起 , 有一個真的困擾著我 。
there was a young girl who stood up , and she asked the question: " where should we explore ? "	有一個年輕女孩站起來 , 她問了一個問題: 「 我們該在哪裡探索 ? 」
i think there's a sense that many of us have that the great age of exploration on earth is over , that for the next generation they're going to have to go to outer space or the deepest oceans in order to find something significant to explore .	我想大家都有一種感覺 , 地球上偉大的探索時代已經結束了 , 對下一代而言 , 他們必須要去外太空或深海 , 才能找到重要的探索 。
but is that really the case ?	但這是真的嗎 ?
is there really nowhere significant for us to explore left here on earth ?	地球上究竟沒有什麼值得我們探索的嗎 ?
it sort of made me think back to one of my favorite explorers in the history of biology .	這讓我回想起生物史上最喜歡的探險家之一 。
this is an explorer of the unseen world , martinus beijerinck .	這是一位探險家 , 馬丁•貝西尼克 。
so beijerinck set out to discover the cause of tobacco mosaic disease .	所以 , beijerinck開始發現菸草病的原因 。
what he did is he took the infected juice from tobacco plants and he would filter it through smaller and smaller filters .	他所做的是從菸草植物中感染到的汁液 , 他會用較小、較小的過濾器過濾它 。
and he reached the point where he felt that there must be something out there that was smaller than the smallest forms of life that were ever known bacteria , at the time .	他到了那個時點 , 他覺得一定有某種比當時所知最小的細菌更小的東西 。
he came up with a name for his mystery agent .	他想出了他的神秘經紀人的名字 。
he called it the virus latin for " poison . "	他稱之為 「 毒藥 」 病毒 。
and in uncovering viruses , beijerinck really opened this entirely new world for us .	在揭露病毒的過程中 , beijerinck為我們打開了整個新世界 。
we now know that viruses make up the majority of the genetic information on our planet , more than the genetic information of all other forms of life combined .	我們現在知道病毒是由地球上大部分的基因信息組成的 , 遠超過所有其他形式的生命組合 。
and obviously there's been tremendous practical applications associated with this world things like the eradication of smallpox , the advent of a vaccine against cervical cancer , which we now know is mostly caused by human papillomavirus .	很明顯地 , 和這個世界有著巨大的實際應用 , 像是天花的消滅 , 這種疫苗在對抗子宮頸癌 , 我們現在知道 , 主要是由人類乳癌所造成的 。
and beijerinck's discovery , this was not something that occurred 500 years ago .	而beijerinck的發現 , 這不是500年前發生的事 。
it was a little over 100 years ago that beijerinck discovered viruses .	大約一百多年前 , beijerinck發現了病毒 。
so basically we had automobiles , but we were unaware of the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	基本上 , 我們有了汽車 , 但我們不知道地球上大部分的基因資訊的形式 。
we now have these amazing tools to allow us to explore the unseen world things like deep sequencing , which allow us to do much more than just skim the surface and look at individual genomes from a particular species , but to look at entire metagenomes , the communities of teeming microorganisms in , on and around us and to document all of the genetic information in these species .	我們現在有了這些驚人的工具 , 讓我們可以探索未知的世界 , 像是深度定序 , 讓我們能做的不只是滑雪表面 , 還可以從特定物種身上看個別的基因組 , 而是去看整個金屬群體 , 群體在我們周圍的微生物群落 , 以及記錄所有這些物種的基因信息 。
we can apply these techniques to things from soil to skin and everything in between .	我們可以將這些技術應用到從土壤到皮膚的所有東西上 。
in my organization we now do this on a regular basis to identify the causes of outbreaks that are unclear exactly what causes them .	在我的組織中 , 我們定期做這件事 , 來找出疾病爆發的成因 , 不清楚會造成什麼原因 。
and just to give you a sense of how this works , imagine that we took a nasal swab from every single one of you .	為了讓各位了解這如何運作 , 想像一下 , 我們從你們每一個人身上取得了nasal的腫脹 。
and this is something we commonly do to look for respiratory viruses like influenza .	這是我們常做的事 , 用來尋找呼吸道的病毒 , 如流感病毒 。
the first thing we would see is a tremendous amount of genetic information .	首先 , 我們會看到的是大量的基因信息 。
and if we started looking into that genetic information , we'd see a number of usual suspects out there of course , a lot of human genetic information , but also bacterial and viral information , mostly from things that are completely harmless within your nose .	如果我們開始研究這些基因信息 , 當然 , 我們會發現許多人的基因信息 , 還有細菌和病毒資訊 , 大多來自鼻子中完全無害的事物 。
but we'd also see something very , very surprising .	但我們也看到了非常非常令人驚訝的現象 。
as we started to look at this information , we would see that about 20 percent of the genetic information in your nose doesn't match anything that we've ever seen before no plant , animal , fungus , virus or bacteria .	當我們開始研究這些資訊時 , 我們會發現 , 在你的鼻子裡大約有20%的基因信息並不符合我們以前從未見過的植物、動物、真菌、病毒或細菌 。
basically we have no clue what this is .	基本上 , 我們根本不知道這是什麼 。
and for the small group of us who actually study this kind of data , a few of us have actually begun to call this information biological dark matter .	對於研究這種數據的小組 , 我們當中有一些人開始稱之為 「 生物暗物質 」 。
we know it's not anything that we've seen before ; it's sort of the equivalent of an uncharted continent right within our own genetic information .	我們知道這不是我們以前看過的東西 , 而是類似我們基因信息中未知的大陸 。
and there's a lot of it .	還有很多 。
if you think 20 percent of genetic information in your nose is a lot of biological dark matter , if we looked at your gut , up to 40 or 50 percent of that information is biological dark matter .	如果你認為你鼻子裡百分之二十的基因信息是許多生物暗物質 , 如果我們觀察你的腸子 , 大約百分之四十或五十的信息是生物暗物質 。
and even in the relatively sterile blood , around one to two percent of this information is dark matter can't be classified , can't be typed or matched with anything we've seen before .	即使在相對的無菌血液中 , 大約有1%到2%是暗物質無法被分類 , 無法和我們以前見過的任何東西做配對 。
at first we thought that perhaps this was artifact .	一開始 , 我們認為這可能是人工藝品 。
these deep sequencing tools are relatively new .	這些深度定序的工具相對比較新 。
but as they become more and more accurate , we've determined that this information is a form of life , or at least some of it is a form of life .	但隨著他們變得越來越準確 , 我們已經決定這資訊是生命的一種形式 , 或至少其中一些是生命的形式 。
and while the hypotheses for explaining the existence of biological dark matter are really only in their infancy , there's a very , very exciting possibility that exists: that buried in this life , in this genetic information , are signatures of as of yet unidentified life .	雖然解釋生物暗物質存在的假設只是在嬰兒期間 , 有一個非常非常令人興奮的可能性存在於這個生命中 , 被埋在這個基因信息中 , 代表著尚未明確的生命特徵 。
that as we explore these strings of a's , t's , c's and g's , we may uncover a completely new class of life that , like beijerinck , will fundamentally change the way that we think about the nature of biology .	當我們探索a、t、c、g的弦時 , 我們可能會發現一個全新的生物類型 , 例如beijerinck , 會徹底改變我們對生物的本質的看法 。
that perhaps will allow us to identify the cause of a cancer that afflicts us or identify the source of an outbreak that we aren't familiar with or perhaps create a new tool in molecular biology .	也許這會讓我們辨識出一種癌症的原因 , 或辨識出我們不熟悉的疫情來源 , 或創造分子生物學的新工具 。
i'm pleased to announce that , along with colleagues at stanford and caltech and ucsf , we're currently starting an initiative to explore biological dark matter for the existence of new forms of life .	我很高興地宣佈 , 和史丹佛、加州理工學院、加州理工學院的同事 , 我們目前正開始著手探索生物暗物質 , 來探索新的生命形式的存在 。
a little over a hundred years ago , people were unaware of viruses , the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	大約一百多年前 , 人們對病毒一無所知 , 生命形式創造了地球上大部分的遺傳信息 。
a hundred years from now , people may marvel that we were perhaps completely unaware of a new class of life that literally was right under our noses .	一百年後 , 人們可能會驚嘆我們可能完全沒有意識到一種新的生命類型 , 真的就在我們的鼻子底下 。
it's true , we may have charted all the continents on the planet and we may have discovered all the mammals that are out there , but that doesn't mean that there's nothing left to explore on earth .	這是真的 , 我們可能已經查過地球上所有的大陸 , 我們可能已經發現外面所有哺乳類的哺乳類 , 但這並不表示地球上沒有任何東西可以探索 。
beijerinck and his kind provide an important lesson for the next generation of explorers people like that young girl from beloit , wisconsin .	beijerinck和他的同事為下一代的探險家提供了一堂重要的教訓 , 像是那位來自威斯康辛的年輕女孩 。
and i think if we phrase that lesson , it's something like this: don't assume that what we currently think is out there is the full story .	我想如果我們說出了這一課 , 就有點像這樣:不要假設我們現在所認為的完全是全面的故事 。
go after the dark matter in whatever field you choose to explore .	在你選擇探索的領域中 , 去追尋暗物質 。
there are unknowns all around us and they're just waiting to be discovered .	我們身邊無所知 , 他們只是等待被發現 。
legendary scientist david deutsch puts theoretical physics on the back burner to discuss a more urgent matter: the survival of our species . the first step toward solving global warming , he says , is to admit that we have a problem .	傳奇科學家daviddeutsch把理論物理放在後面的漢堡 , 討論一個更迫切的問題:我們物種的存活率 。 他說 , 要承認我們有問題 。
climate change , cosmos , culture , environment , global issues , physics , science , technology , universe	氣候變遷、宇宙、文化、環境、全球議題、物理、科學、科技、宇宙、宇宙、科學、科學、科技、科技、宇宙等等 。
david deutsch on our place in the cosmos	大衛•德歇斯基於宇宙中的位置 。
we've been told to go out on a limb and say something surprising .	我們被告知要走上肢體 , 說出令人驚訝的事情 。
so i'll try and do that , but i want to start with two things that everyone already knows .	我來試試看 , 但我想要從大家已經知道的兩件事開始 。
and the first one , in fact , is something that has been known for most of recorded history .	事實上 , 首先 , 已經是歷史上大部分的歷史所知的 。
and that is that the planet earth , or the solar system , or our environment or whatever , is uniquely suited to sustain our evolution or creation , as it used to be thought and our present existence , and most important , our future survival .	那就是地球 , 或太陽系 , 或我們的環境 , 或其它 , 都適用於維持我們的演化或創意 , 以前 , 思想和現存 , 最重要的是 , 我們未來的生存 。
nowadays this idea has a dramatic name: spaceship earth .	今日這個想法有個很戲劇性的名字:太空船地球 。
and the idea there is that outside the spaceship , the universe is implacably hostile , and inside is all we have , all we depend on .	這個想法是 , 在太空船之外 , 宇宙是不可置信的 , 而內部是我們所擁有的 , 我們只需要仰賴的 。
and we only get the one chance: if we mess up our spaceship , we've got nowhere else to go .	我們只有一個機會:如果我們搞砸了我們的太空船 , 我們就沒有其他地方可以去 。
now , the second thing that everyone already knows is that contrary to what was believed for most of human history , human beings are not , in fact , the hub of existence .	第二件事 , 大家已經知道的是 , 對大部分人類歷史所相信的相反 , 人類其實不是存在的中心 。
as stephen hawking famously said , we're just a chemical scum on the surface of a typical planet that's in orbit around a typical star , which is on the outskirts of a typical galaxy , and so on .	正如史蒂芬•霍金所說 , 我們只是一個典型的星球表面 , 在一個典型的恆星周圍繞繞著一個典型的星球 , 在一個典型的銀河系的外部 , 諸如此類 。
now the first of those two things that everyone knows is kind of saying that we're at a very untypical place , uniquely suited and so on , and the second one is saying that we're at a typical place .	大家都知道的兩件事的第一件事 , 是我們處在一個非常不尋常的地方 , 獨特的服裝等等 , 第二個是說我們在一個典型的地方 。
and especially if you regard these two as deep truths to live by and to inform your life decisions , then they seem a little bit to conflict with each other .	尤其是如果你把這兩種真相視為深刻的真相 , 告訴你的人生決策 , 那麼它們似乎有點衝突 。
but that doesn't prevent them from both being completely false .	但這並不會阻止他們完全錯誤 。
and they are . so let me start with the second one: typical . well is this a typical place ? well , let's look around , you know , and look in a random direction , and we see a wall , and chemical scum and that's not typical of the universe at all .	它們是的 。 所以 , 讓我從第二個例子開始吧 。 嗯 , 這是典型的地方嗎 ? 讓我們看看四周看看四周 , 看看一個隨機的方向 , 我們看到一面牆 , 化學的雕塑 , 完全不是宇宙的典型 。
all you've got to do is go a few hundred miles in that same direction and look back , and you won't see any walls or chemical scum at all all you see is a blue planet . and if you go further than that , you'll see the sun , the solar system , and the stars and so on .	你所要做的就是走幾百英里 , 回頭看 , 你看不到任何牆或化學雕像 , 你所看到的都是藍色的星球 。 如果你走得更遠 , 你會看到太陽 , 太陽系 , 恆星等等 。
but that's still not typical of the universe , because stars come in galaxies .	但這仍然不是典型的宇宙 , 因為恆星在星系中出現 。
and most places in the universe , a typical place in the universe , is nowhere near any galaxies .	宇宙中的大部分地方 , 宇宙中典型的地方 , 幾乎沒有任何銀河系 。
so let's go out further , till we're outside the galaxy , and look back , and yeah , there's the huge galaxy with spiral arms laid out in front of us .	所以 , 讓我們再向外走 , 直到我們走出星系 , 回頭看 , 是的 , 有一個巨大的星系 , 在我們面前有螺旋臂 。
and at this point we've come 100 , 000 light years from here .	在這個時點 , 我們已經有十萬光年了 。
but we're still nowhere near a typical place in the universe .	但是我們至今仍處於宇宙中典型的地方 。
to get to a typical place , you've got to go 1 , 000 times as far as that into intergalactic space .	為了達到典型的地點 , 你必須將一千倍的速度傳到星系間 。
and so what does that look like ? typical .	這看起來是什麼樣子 ? 典型 。
what does a typical place in the universe look like ?	宇宙中一個典型的位置是什麼樣子 ?
well , at enormous expense , ted has arranged a highresolution immersion virtual reality rendering of intergalactic space the view from intergalactic space .	嗯 , 在巨大的昂貴中 , ted已經安排了高解析度的虛擬實境 , 虛擬實境 , 來自星際空間的景象 。
so can we have the lights off , please , so we can see it ?	所以 , 請把燈關掉 , 請看 , 我們能看到嗎 ?
well , not quite , not quite perfect you see , in intergalactic space intergalactic space is completely dark , pitch dark .	嗯 , 不太完美 , 你可以看到 , 在星系間空間中間的空間是完全黑暗的 , 漆黑的 。
it's so dark that if you were to be looking at the nearest star to you , and that star were to explode as a supernova , and you were to be staring directly at it at the moment when its light reached you , you still wouldn't be able to see even a glimmer .	很黑暗 , 如果你在看最近的星星 , 那星星是以超新星爆炸的 , 而你在閃爍的那一刻 , 直到你眼睛時 , 你依然看不見星星 。
that's how big and how dark the universe is .	這就是宇宙有多大 , 有多黑暗 。
and that's despite the fact that a supernova is so bright , so brilliant an event , that it would kill you stone dead at a range of several light years .	儘管有一顆超新星如此明亮 , 所以很棒的一場活動 , 會讓你在幾光年內死去 。
and yet from intergalactic space , it's so far away you wouldn't even see it .	然而 , 從星系間的空間來看 , 它是如此遙遠 , 你甚至看不到它 。
it's also very cold out there less than three degrees above absolute zero .	在絕對零度之上 , 它也非常寒冷 。
and it's very empty . the vacuum there is one million times less dense than the highest vacuum that our best technology on earth can currently create . so that's how different a typical place is from this place .	而它是非常空的 。 真空的密度比地球上最高的真空還要低一百萬倍 , 目前我們最好的科技可以創造 。 所以 , 在這個地方 , 不同的地方是如此 。
and that is how untypical this place is .	這就是這個地方的典型 。
so can we have the lights back on please ? thank you .	所以 , 我們能把燈打回來嗎 ? 謝謝 。
now how do we know about an environment that's so far away , and so different , and so alien , from anything we're used to ?	現在我們如何知道一個距離如此遙遠的環境 , 又如此不同 , 外星人 , 從任何我們習以為常的環境中 ?
well , the earth our environment , in the form of us is creating knowledge .	嗯 , 地球我們的環境 , 以我們所創造的知識 。
well , what does that mean ? well , look out even further than we've just been i mean from here , with a telescope and you'll see things that look like stars .	嗯 , 這意味著什麼呢 ? 嗯 , 看看比我們剛剛看到的更遠--我是說 , 用望遠鏡 , 然後你會看到像恆星的東西 。
they're called " quasars . " quasars originally meant quasistellar object .	它們被稱為 「 夸拉 」 。 原本是 「 量子力物體 」 。
which means things that look a bit like stars . but they're not stars .	這意味著 , 看起來有點像恆星 , 但它們不是恆星 。
and we know what they are . billions of years ago , and billions of light years away , the material at the center of a galaxy collapsed towards a supermassive black hole .	我們知道它們是什麼 。 數十億年前 , 數十億光年之外 , 銀河系中間的物質落在一個超大質量的黑洞中 。
and then intense magnetic fields directed some of the energy of that gravitational collapse . and some of the matter , back out in the form of tremendous jets which illuminated lobes with the brilliance of i think it's a trillion suns .	接著 , 強烈的磁場引力倒塌了一些能量 。 其中的一些物質 , 回到了巨大的噴射流的形式 , 會照亮葉子的亮點 , 我認為它是一兆個太陽 。
now , the physics of the human brain could hardly be more unlike the physics of such a jet .	現在 , 人類大腦的物理學幾乎不像這種噴射流的物理 。
we couldn't survive for an instant in it . language breaks down when trying to describe what it would be like in one of those jets .	我們不能馬上存活下來 , 語言會在試圖描述在其中一個噴射機中會是什麼樣子的情況時 , 語言會瓦解 。
it would be a bit like experiencing a supernova explosion , but at pointblank range and for millions of years at a time .	這有點像經歷過超新星的爆炸 , 但在時空的範圍內 , 每次有數百萬年的時間 。
and yet , that jet happened in precisely such a way that billions of years later , on the other side of the universe , some bit of chemical scum could accurately describe , and model , and predict , and explain , above all there's your reference what was happening there , in reality .	然而 , 這種噴射機在數十億年後 , 在宇宙的另一端 , 一些化學污垢可以準確地描述 , 模型 , 預測和解釋 , 最重要的是你的參考事實 , 在現實中發生了什麼事 。
the one physical system , the brain , contains an accurate working model of the other the quasar .	一個實體系統 , 大腦 , 包含一個精確的工作模型 , 其它的 「 夸拉 」 。
not just a superficial image of it , though it contains that as well , but an explanatory model , embodying the same mathematical relationships and the same causal structure .	不僅僅是它的超級形象 , 還包含了它 , 而是一個解釋性的模型 , 體現了相同的數學關係以及因果關係結構 。
now that is knowledge . and if that weren't amazing enough , the faithfulness with which the one structure resembles the other is increasing with time . that is the growth of knowledge .	這是知識 。 如果這還不夠驚人 , 信心和哪個結構相似 , 其它的結構會隨著時間增長 。 這就是知識的增長 。
so , the laws of physics have this special property .	所以 , 物理定律有這種特殊的特性 。
that physical objects , as unlike each other as they could possibly be , can nevertheless embody the same mathematical and causal structure and to do it more and more so over time .	這種實體物體 , 和它們之間的可能性不同 , 不論是用相同的數學和因果結構 , 以及隨時間來做更多 。
so we are a chemical scum that is different . this chemical scum has universality .	所以我們是一個不一樣的化學螺絲 。 這個化學螺絲具有普遍性 。
its structure contains , with everincreasing precision , the structure of everything . this place , and not other places in the universe , is a hub which contains within itself the structural and causal essence of the whole of the rest of physical reality . and so , far from being insignificant , the fact that the laws of physics allow this , or even mandate that this can happen , is one of the most important things about the physical world .	它的結構含有著不斷的精確度 , 一切的結構 。 這個地方 , 而不是宇宙的其他地方 , 它是一個包含在整個物理現實的結構和因果的本質 。 所以 , 遠離被忽視的物理定律 , 事實上 , 物理的定律允許這個定律 , 甚至是強迫它發生 , 它是物理世界中最重要的事之一 。
now how does the solar system and our environment , in the form of us acquire this special relationship with the rest of the universe ?	那麼 , 太陽系和我們的環境是如何形成一個與宇宙其餘的特殊關係 ?
well , one thing that's true about stephen hawking's remark i mean , it is true , but it's the wrong emphasis . one thing that's true about it is that it doesn't do it with any special physics . there's no special dispensation , no miracles involved . it does it simply with three things that we have here in abundance .	嗯 , 史蒂芬•霍金的筆記 , 我是說 , 這是真的 , 但它是錯的強調 。 真正的重點是它並沒有用任何特殊的物理來做 。 沒有特殊的解剖 , 沒有奇蹟涉入 。 它只用三樣東西來做我們在這兒所擁有的豐富 。
one of them is matter , because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing . information processing is computation , computation requires a computer there's no known way of making a computer without matter .	其中一個是很重要的 , 因為知識的增長是資訊處理的形式 。 資訊處理是計算 , 計算需要電腦 , 沒有任何東西可以製造電腦 。
we also need energy to make the computer , and most important , to make the media in effect onto which we record the knowledge that we discover .	我們也需要能量來製造電腦 , 最重要的是 , 讓媒體對我們所發現的知識有所影響 。
and then thirdly , less tangible , but just as essential for the openended creation of knowledge , of explanations , is evidence .	第三 , 不太具體 , 但對開放式的知識、解釋的創造而言 , 重要的是證據 。
now , our environment is inundated with evidence .	現在 , 我們的環境充滿了證據 。
we happen to get round to testing , let's say , newton's law of gravity about 300 years ago .	例如 , 牛頓的重力定律大約在300年前發生 。
but the evidence that we used to do that was falling down on every square meter of the earth for billions of years before that , and will continue to fall on for billions of years afterwards . and the same is true for all the other sciences .	但是我們過去數十億年前所做的證據顯示地球每一平方米落下 , 數十億年之後繼續下去 。 其它科學也是如此 。
as far as we know , evidence to discover the most fundamental truths of all the sciences is here just for the taking on our planet .	據我們所知 , 發現所有科學中最基本的真理 , 只是為了取代地球 。
our location is saturated with evidence , and also with matter and energy .	我們的位置充滿了證據 , 也充滿了物質和能量 。
out in intergalactic space , those three prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge are at their lowest possible supply .	在星系間空間中 , 這三個創造開放式知識的前提是最低的供應 。
as i said , it's empty ; it's cold ; and it's dark out there . or is it ?	如我所說 , 它是空的 , 它很冷 , 外面是黑暗的 , 還是它 ?
now actually , that's just another parochial misconception .	實際上 , 這只是另一個關於偏見的誤解 。
because imagine a cube out there in intergalactic space , the same size as our home , the solar system . now that cube is very empty by human standards , but that still means that it contains over a million tons of matter .	因為想像一個在星系間的立方體 , 和我們的家一樣大 , 太陽系 。 現在這個立方體是非常空的 , 由人類標準所組成 , 但這仍然意味著它含有超過一百萬噸的物質 。
and a million tons is enough to make , say , a selfcontained space station , on which there's a colony of scientists that are devoted to creating an openended stream of knowledge , and so on .	一百萬噸足以製造出自足的太空站 , 其中有一群科學家致力於創造一個開放式的知識流 , 諸如此類 。
now , it's way beyond present technology to even gather the hydrogen from intergalactic space and form it into other elements and so on .	現在 , 它已經超越了現有的技術 , 把來自星系空間的氫收集起來 , 將氫變成其他元素等等 。
but the thing is , in a comprehensible universe , if something isn't forbidden by the laws of physics , then what could possibly prevent us from doing it , other than knowing how ?	但 , 重點是 , 在一個可理解的宇宙中 , 如果某個東西不被物理定律禁止 , 那麼 , 什麼能阻止我們去做 , 除了知道怎麼做 ?
in other words , it's a matter of knowledge , not resources .	換句話說 , 它是知識的問題 , 而非資源 。
and the same well , if we could do that we'd automatically have an energy supply , because the transmutation would be a fusion reactor and evidence ?	同樣的 , 如果我們能自動提供能源供應 , 因為交通運輸會是核融合反應器和證據嗎 ?
well , again , it's dark out there to human senses . but all you've got to do is take a telescope , even one of presentday design , look out and you'll see the same galaxies as we do from here .	嗯 , 再說一次 , 它對人類的感官很暗 。 但你要做的就是拿一個望遠鏡 , 甚至今天的設計 , 看看外面 , 你會看到相同的銀河系 。
and with a more powerful telescope , you'll be able to see stars , and planets .	有了更強大的望遠鏡 , 你就能看見恆星 , 行星 。
in those galaxies , you'll be able to do astrophysics , and learn the laws of physics .	在那些星系中 , 你可以做天體物理學 , 並學習物理定律 。
and locally there you could build particle accelerators , and learn elementary particle physics , and chemistry , and so on .	你可以在當地建立粒子加速器 , 學習基本粒子物理 , 化學等等 。
probably the hardest science to do would be biology field trips because it would take several hundred million years to get to the nearest lifebearing planet and back .	最難的科學可能是生物的實地旅行 , 因為它要花上幾億年才能到最近的地球回去 。
but i have to tell you and sorry , richard but i never did like biology field trips much , and i think we can just about make do with one every few hundred million years .	但是我必須告訴你們 , 理查 , 理查 , 但是我從來不太喜歡生物學領域 , 我想我們可以每幾億年就做一次 。
so in fact , intergalactic space does contain all the prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge . any such cube , anywhere in the universe , could become the same kind of hub that we are , if the knowledge of how to do so were present there .	事實上 , 星系間空間確實包含了開放式的知識 。 任何這些立方體 , 在宇宙的任何地方 , 都可以成為我們一樣的樞紐 , 假如我們是如何在現場實現的知識 。
so we're not in a uniquely hospitable place .	所以 , 我們不是獨一無二的居住地 。
if intergalactic space is capable of creating an openended stream of explanations , then so is almost every other environment . so is the earth . so is a polluted earth .	如果星系間空間能夠創造出一個開放式的解釋 , 那麼幾乎所有其他的環境 。 這就是地球 。 這是個污染的地球 。
and the limiting factor , there and here , is not resources , because they're plentiful , but knowledge , which is scarce .	而限制因素 , 在這裡 , 沒有資源 , 因為它們很豐富 , 但知識 , 很稀少 。
now this cosmic knowledgebased view may and i think ought to make us feel very special . but it should also make us feel vulnerable , because it means that without the specific knowledge that's needed to survive the ongoing challenges of the universe , we won't survive them .	現在這個宇宙知識的觀點 , 或許我認為應該讓我們覺得很特別 , 但這也應該讓我們覺得脆弱 , 因為這意味著 , 若要讓宇宙持續的挑戰存活下來 , 我們就不會存活下來 。
all it takes is for a supernova to go off a few light years away , and we'll all be dead !	只需要一個超級新星才能在幾光年內離開 , 我們都死了 !
martin rees has recently written a book about our vulnerability to all sorts of things , from astrophysics , to scientific experiments gone wrong , and most importantly to terrorism with weapons of mass destruction .	馬丁•雷斯最近寫了一本關於我們對各種事物的脆弱的書 , 從天體物理學 , 到科學實驗都錯了 , 最重要的是用大規模毀滅性武器來恐怖主義 。
and he thinks that civilization has only a 50 percent chance of surviving this century .	他認為文明只有50%的機會在這個世紀存活下來 。
i think he's going to talk about that later in the conference .	我想他會在會議後談到這一點 。
now i don't think that probability is the right category to discuss this issue in .	我不認為機率是正確的分類來討論這個議題 。
but i do agree with him about this . we can survive , and we can fail to survive .	但我同意他這件事 , 我們可以生存下來 , 我們無法生存下來 。
but it depends not on chance , but on whether we create the relevant knowledge in time .	但它取決於機會 , 但不論我們是否在時間內建立相關的知識 。
the danger is not at all unprecedented . species go extinct all the time .	危險並不是史無前例的物種會隨時滅絕
civilizations end . the overwhelming majority of all species and all civilizations that have ever existed are now history .	文明終究會結束 , 絕大多數的物種和所有現存的文明都是歷史 。
and if we want to be the exception to that , then logically our only hope is to make use of the one feature that distinguishes our species , and our civilization , from all the others namely , our special relationship with the laws of physics , our ability to create new explanations , new knowledge to be a hub of existence .	如果我們想成為一個例外 , 那麼 , 我們唯一的希望就是利用一個特徵來區別我們的物種 , 而我們的文明 , 也就是說 , 我們與物理定律的特殊關係 , 我們創造新的解釋能力 , 新的知識成為存在的中心 。
so let me now apply this to a current controversy , not because i want to advocate any particular solution , but just to illustrate the kind of thing i mean .	所以 , 讓我把這個應用到目前的爭議中 , 不是因為我想要倡導任何特定的解決方案 , 只為了說明我的意思 。
and the controversy is global warming .	爭議是全球暖化 。
now , i'm a physicist , but i'm not the right kind of physicist . in regard to global warming , i'm just a layman . and the rational thing for a layman to do is to take seriously the prevailing scientific theory . and according to that theory , it's already too late to avoid a disaster .	現在 , 我是物理學家 , 但我不是那種對的物理學家 。 關於全球暖化 , 我只是一個懶人 。 理性的事情是要認真看待科學理論 。 根據這個理論 , 已經太晚了 , 避免一個災難 。
because if it's true that our best option at the moment is to prevent co2 emissions with something like the kyoto protocol , with its constraints on economic activity and its enormous cost of hundreds of billions of dollars or whatever it is , then that is already a disaster by any reasonable measure .	因為 , 如果我們現在最好的選項是要預防二氧化碳排放 , 例如京都議定書 , 對於經濟活動的限制 , 以及它數百億元或其它的成本 , 那就已經是個災難 。
and the actions that are advocated are not even purported to solve the problem , merely to postpone it by a little . so it's already too late to avoid it , and it probably has been too late to avoid it ever since before anyone realized the danger .	倡導的行動甚至沒有被驅逐去解決問題 , 只能稍微延後它 。 所以它已經太晚了 , 已經無法避免它了 , 自從任何人意識到危險之前就已經太晚了 。
it was probably already too late in the 1970s , when the best available scientific theory was telling us that industrial emissions were about to precipitate a new ice age in which billions would die .	在1970年代早就已經太晚了 , 當最好的科學理論告訴我們 , 工業排放將要在數十億人死亡時 。
now the lesson of that seems clear to me , and i don't know why it isn't informing public debate .	這教訓對我來說是很明顯的 , 我不知道為何它沒有公眾辯論 。
it is that we can't always know . when we know of an impending disaster , and how to solve it at a cost less than the cost of the disaster itself , then there's not going to be much argument , really .	是我們無法永遠知道的 。 當我們知道一個即將面臨的災難 , 以及如何用少於災難本身的成本 , 那麼就不會有太多的爭論 。
but no precautions , and no precautionary principle , can avoid problems that we do not yet foresee .	但沒有預防措施 , 也沒有預防的原則 , 可以避免我們還沒預料到的問題 。
hence , we need a stance of problemfixing , not just problemavoidance .	因此 , 我們需要解決問題的穩定 , 不只是重視問題 。
and it's true that an ounce of prevention equals a pound of cure , but that's only if we know what to prevent .	這是真的 , 一盎司的預防措施等同於一磅的治療方法 , 但這只是我們知道如何預防 。
if you've been punched on the nose , then the science of medicine does not consist of teaching you how to avoid punches .	如果你在鼻子上被打 , 那麼醫學的科學就不會教你如何避免打孔 。
if medical science stopped seeking cures and concentrated on prevention only , then it would achieve very little of either .	如果醫學停止尋求治療 , 並專注在預防上 , 那它也無法達成 。
the world is buzzing at the moment with plans to force reductions in gas emissions at all costs .	此時此刻 , 世界正在發動計畫 , 要讓氣體排放量降低所有成本 。
it ought to be buzzing with plans to reduce the temperature , and with plans to live at the higher temperature and not at all costs , but efficiently and cheaply . and some such plans exist , things like swarms of mirrors in space to deflect the sunlight away , and encouraging aquatic organisms to eat more carbon dioxide .	該計劃應該要讓溫度降低 , 計畫要在更高的溫度下生存 , 不需花費 , 而是有效率地、便宜 。 有些計畫存在 , 例如大量的鏡子 , 來將陽光轉移 , 並鼓勵水產量的有機體吃更多的二氧化碳 。
at the moment , these things are fringe research .	此時此刻 , 這些是邊緣研究 。
they're not central to the human effort to face this problem , or problems in general .	它們不是人類努力去解決這個問題的核心 , 也不是一般來說的問題 。
and with problems that we are not aware of yet , the ability to put right not the sheer good luck of avoiding indefinitely is our only hope , not just of solving problems , but of survival .	我們還沒察覺到的問題 , 要把正確的能力 , 不是無限中避免無限運氣的能力 , 是我們唯一的希望 , 不只是解決問題 , 而是生存 。
so take two stone tablets , and carve on them .	拿兩個石板板 , 刻在上面 。
on one of them , carve: " problems are soluble . "	其中一個是 " 問題是 "
and on the other one carve: " problems are inevitable . "	另一部曲子是: 「 問題是不可避免的 。 」
how can a struggling country break out of poverty if it's trapped in a system of bad rules ? economist paul romer unveils a bold idea: " charter cities , " cityscale administrative zones governed by a coalition of nations .	如果它被困在一個不好的規則制度中 , 一個掙扎的國家如何破壞貧窮 ? 經濟學家保羅默揭露了一個大膽想法: 「 特殊城市 」 、 「 城市管理區 , 由國家聯盟統治 。
business , culture , economics , global issues , politics	商業、文化、全球議題、政治議題、商業、經濟問題、經濟問題、
paul romer's radical idea: charter cities	保羅•羅姆的激進想法:特區城市 。
take a look at this picture .	看看這張照片 。
it poses a very fascinating puzzle for us .	它為我們帶來了一個令人著迷的謎題 。
these african students are doing their homework under streetlights at the airport in the capital city because they don't have any electricity at home .	這些非洲學生在首都機場的街燈下做功課 , 因為他們家裡沒有電力 。
now , i haven't met these particular students , but i've met students like them .	我還沒見過這些特別的學生 , 但我遇到了像他們一樣的學生 。
let's just pick one for example , the one in the green shirt .	咱們來挑一個例子 , 綠色襯衫裡的那個 。
let's give him a name , too: nelson .	我們也給他一個名字:nelson 。
i'll bet nelson has a cellphone .	我打賭nelson有手機 。
so here is the puzzle .	這是個謎題 。
why is it that nelson has access to a cuttingedge technology , like the cellphone , but doesn't have access to a 100yearold technology for generating electric light in the home ?	為什麼nelson能接觸到尖端科技 , 例如手機 , 卻無法取得一百歲的技術 , 供電給家裡的電燈 ?
now , in a word , the answer is " rules . "	換句話說 , 答案是 「 規則 」 。
bad rules can prevent the kind of winwin solution that's available when people can bring new technologies in and make them available to someone like nelson .	不好的規則可以預防這種雙贏的解決方案 , 當人們可以把新科技帶進去 , 讓它成為像nelson這樣的人 。
what kinds of rules ?	什麼樣的規則 ?
the electric company in this nation operates under a rule , which says that it has to sell electricity at a very low , subsidized price in fact , a price that is so low it loses money on every unit that it sells .	這個國家的電力公司在一個規則下運作 , 說它必須以非常低的補貼價格銷售出電力 , 事實上 , 價格低到每一單位都被賣掉 。
so it has neither the resources , nor the incentives , to hook up many other users .	所以它既不是資源 , 也不是激勵機制 , 也不是鼓勵許多其他使用者 。
the president wanted to change this rule .	總統想要改變這個規則 。
he's seen that it's possible to have a different set of rules , rules where businesses earn a small profit , so they have an incentive to sign up more customers .	他看過 , 有一套不同的規則 , 企業賺得很小的利潤 , 所以他們有動機去簽更多客戶 。
that's the kind of rules that the cellphone company that nelson purchases his telephony from operates under .	這種規則就是尼爾遜公司在運作下方購買了他的電話 。
the president has seen how those rules worked well .	總統看過這些規則如何順利運作 。
so he tried to change the rules for pricing on electricity , but ran into a firestorm of protest from businesses and consumers who wanted to preserve the existing subsidized rates .	所以他試著改變電價的規則 , 但他遇到了企業和消費者 , 他們想要保有現有的補助率 。
so he was stuck with rules that prevented him from letting the winwin solution help his country .	所以他陷入了規則 , 阻止他放下雙贏的解決方案來協助他的國家 。
and nelson is stuck studying under the streetlights .	nelson在街燈下研究的 。
the real challenge then , is to try to figure out how we can change rules .	真正的挑戰是試著找出我們能如何改變規則 。
are there some rules we can develop for changing rules ?	是否有一些規則可以改變規則 ?
i want to argue that there is a general abstract insight that we can make practical , which is that , if we can give more choices to people , and more choices to leaders who , in many countries , are also people .	我想爭辯的是 , 有一個普遍的抽象洞見 , 我們可以實用 , 那就是 , 如果我們能給人民更多選擇 , 在許多國家 , 對於領導者 , 也是人 。
but , it's useful to present the opposition between these two .	但 , 要展現這兩者之間的反對是有用的 。
because the kind of choice you might want to give to a leader , a choice like giving the president the choice to raise prices on electricity , takes away a choice that people in the economy want .	因為你可能想給領導者一個選擇 , 例如給總統一個選擇 , 提高電力的價格 , 消除人民在經濟中想要的選擇 。
they want the choice to be able to continue consuming subsidized electric power .	他們希望能選擇繼續消耗電力 。
so if you give just to one side or the other , you'll have tension or friction .	所以如果你給予一方或另一方 , 你會有張力或摩擦力 。
but if we can find ways to give more choices to both , that will give us a set of rules for changing rules that get us out of traps .	但如果我們能找到更多選擇的方式 , 就能給予我們一套改變規則的規則 , 來讓我們脫離陷阱 。
now , nelson also has access to the internet .	現在 , nelson也能上網 。
and he says that if you want to see the damaging effects of rules , the ways that rules can keep people in the dark , look at the pictures from nasa of the earth at night .	他說如果你想看到規則的損害 , 規則的威脅會讓人們在黑暗中留在黑暗中 , 看看美國太空總署的照片 。
in particular check out asia .	特別是在亞洲 。
if you zoom in here , you can see north korea , in outline here , which is like a black hole compared to its neighbors .	如果你放大這裡 , 你可以看到北韓 , 這裡的線上 , 和其鄰居相比 , 黑洞就像是黑洞 。
now , you won't be surprised to learn that the rules in north korea keep people there in the dark .	現在 , 你不會驚訝地知道北韓的規則會讓人們處在黑暗中 。
but it is important to recognize that north korea and south korea started out with identical sets of rules in both the sense of laws and regulations , but also in the deeper senses of understandings , norms , culture , values and beliefs .	但 , 重要的是要認出北韓和南韓的規則始於一模一樣的規則 , 無論是法律和規範 , 還是在更深層層的理解、規範、文化、價值、信念 。
when they separated , they made choices that led to very divergent paths for their sets of rules .	當他們分開時 , 他們做出選擇 , 導致他們一系列的規則非常明顯的路徑 。
so we can change we as humans can change the rules that we use to interact with each other , for better , or for worse .	所以 , 我們可以改變我們人類可以改變我們使用的規則 , 來和彼此互動 , 做得更好 , 或更糟 。
now let's look at another region , the caribbean .	現在我們來看看加勒比海另一個區域 。
zoom in on haiti , in outline here .	放大海地 , 這裡的線上 。
haiti is also dark , compared to its neighbor here , the dominican republic , which has about the same number of residents .	海地也是黑暗的 , 相較於其鄰居 , 多明尼加共和國 , 居民的數量是相同的 。
both of these countries are dark compared to puerto rico , which has half as many residents as either haiti or the dominican republic .	這兩個國家都和波多黎各相較 , 居民的數量有一半是海地或多明尼亞共和國 。
what haiti warns us is that rules can be bad because governments are weak .	海地提醒我們 , 規則可能會很糟 , 因為政府很弱 。
it's not just that the rules are bad because the government is too strong and oppressive , as in north korea .	不只是規則不好 , 因為政府太強壯、壓迫 , 和北韓一樣 。
so that if we want to create environments with good rules , we can't just tear down .	所以 , 如果我們想要用好的規則來創造環境 , 我們就不能把環境撕碎 。
we've got to find ways to build up , as well .	我們也必須找到方法來建構 。
now , china dramatically demonstrates both the potential and the challenges of working with rules .	中國戲劇性地展示了與規則的潛力和挑戰 。
back in the beginning of the data presented in this chart , china was the world's hightechnology leader .	回到這張圖表的一開始 , 中國是世界上高科技領袖 。
chinese had pioneered technologies like steel , printing , gunpowder .	中國的先驅技術如鋼鐵、列印、槍枝等 。
but the chinese never adopted , at least in that period , effective rules for encouraging the spread of those ideas a profit motive that could have encouraged the spread .	但中國從來沒有採用過 , 至少在那段期間 , 有效的規則是鼓勵這些點子的散播 , 能夠鼓勵傳播 。
and they soon adopted rules which slowed down innovation and cut china off from the rest of the world .	他們很快就採用了規則 , 讓創新慢下來 , 讓中國脫離世界其他地方 。
so as other countries in the world innovated , in the sense both of developing newer technologies , but also developing newer rules , the chinese were cut off from those advances .	所以 , 如同世界上其他國家所創新的 , 在發展新科技的同時也發展出新的規則 , 中國人從那些進步中脫離了 。
income there stayed stagnant , as it zoomed ahead in the rest of the world .	收入保持停滯不前 , 世界其他地方的收入也一直被放大 。
this next chart looks at more recent data .	接下來這張圖表看到更近期的數據 。
it plots income , average income in china as a percentage of average income in the united states .	它描繪了中國的平均收入比美國平均收入的百分比 。
in the '50s and '60s you can see that it was hovering at about three percent .	在1950和60年代 , 你可以看到它大約佔據了3% 。
but then in the late '70s something changed .	但在70年代末期 , 改變了 。
growth took off in china . the chinese started catching up very quickly with the united states .	成長在中國 , 中國開始迅速地和美國接觸 。
if you go back to the map at night , you can get a clue to the process that lead to the dramatic change in rules in china .	如果你晚上回頭看地圖 , 你就能得到一條線索 , 線索會導致中國的戲劇性改變 。
the brightest spot in china , which you can see on the edge of the outline here , is hong kong .	中國最明亮的地點 , 你可以看到 , 在這個區域的邊緣 , 是香港 。
hong kong was a small bit of china that , for most of the 20th century , operated under a very different set of rules than the rest of mainland china rules that were copied from working market economies of the time , and administered by the british .	香港是中國的一小部分 , 在二十世紀大部分的時候 , 都在非常不同的規則下運作 , 和當時在職場經濟體中被制定的中國規則相比 , 並且由英國政府負責 。
in the 1950s , hong kong was a place where millions of people could go , from the mainland , to start in jobs like sewing shirts , making toys .	在1950年代 , 香港是個地方 , 在那裡 , 數百萬人可以從大陸開始 , 像是縫紉、製造玩具 。
but , to get on a process of increasing income , increasing skills led to very rapid growth there .	但 , 為了要達到增加收入的過程 , 增加的技能 , 會導致非常快速的成長 。
hong kong was also the model which leaders like deng xiaoping could copy , when they decided to move all of the mainland towards the market model .	香港也是典型的典型 , 像是狄米科普這樣的領導人 , 當他們決定將所有大陸移到市場模式上 。
but deng xiaoping instinctively understood the importance of offering choices to his people .	但匈牙利直覺地了解到提供他人民選擇的重要性 。
so instead of forcing everyone in china to shift immediately to the market model , they proceeded by creating some special zones that could do , in a sense , what britain did: make the opportunity to go work with the market rules available to the people who wanted to opt in there .	所以 , 與其強迫在中國的所有人馬上移到市場模式上 , 他們以創造一些特殊區塊來進行 , 在某種意義上 , 英國做的是:讓機會與市場規則一起合作 , 讓那些想要在市場上選擇的人一起工作 。
so they created four special economic zones around hong kong: zones where chinese could come and work , and cities grew up very rapidly there ; also zones where foreign firms could come in and make things .	所以他們在香港周圍創立了四個經濟區:中國可以到那裡工作 , 城市很快就在那裡成長 ; 外國公司也能進來製造東西 。
one of the zones next to hong kong has a city called shenzhen .	香港旁邊的一個區域有一個叫做深圳的城市 。
in that city there is a taiwanese firm that made the iphone that many of you have , and they made it with labor from chinese who moved there to shenzhen .	在那個城市 , 有一個台灣公司 , 讓你們許多人有的iphone , 他們用中國人的勞工 , 搬到深圳 。
so after the four special zones , there were 14 coastal cites that were open in the same sense , and eventually demonstrated successes in these places that people could opt in to , that they flocked to because of the advantages they offered .	所以 , 在四個特區之後 , 有14個海岸的白蟻也在同一個意義上開放 , 最終 , 在這些地方展示了人們可以選擇的成功 , 他們會因為他們提供的優勢而被鎖住 。
demonstrated successes there led to a consensus for a move toward the market model for the entire economy .	證明成功導致了共識轉向整個經濟體的市場模式 。
now the chinese example shows us several points .	現在 , 中國的例子顯示了幾個分數 。
one is: preserve choices for people .	第一:保存人們的選擇 。
two: operate on the right scale .	第二:在正確的規模上運轉 。
if you try to change the rules in a village , you could do that , but a village would be too small to get the kinds of benefits you can get if you have millions of people all working under good rules .	如果你試著改變村落裡的規則 , 你可以做到 , 但村落會太小 , 以得到你能得到的好處 , 如果你有數百萬人在好的規則下工作 。
on the other hand , the nation is too big .	另一方面 , 國家太大了 。
if you try to change the rules in the nation , you can't give some people a chance to hold back , see how things turn out , and let others zoom ahead and try the new rules .	如果你試著改變這個國家的規則 , 你不能給某些人一個機會 , 看看事情的結果如何 , 讓其他人放大 , 嘗試新的規則 。
but cities give you this opportunity to create new places , with new rules that people can opt in to .	但城市給你機會創造新地方 , 讓人們可以選擇的新規則 。
and they're large enough to get all of the benefits that we can have when millions of us work together under good rules .	它們夠大 , 才能得到我們能擁有的所有利益 , 讓數百萬人在好的規則下工作 。
so the proposal is that we conceive of something called a charter city .	提案是我們想出了一個叫做特區的城市 。
we start with a charter that specifies all the rules required to attract the people who we'll need to build the city .	我們從一個特定規則開始 , 把所有規則都吸引到需要建造城市的人 。
we'll need to attract the investors who will build out the infrastructure the power system , the roads , the port , the airport , the buildings .	我們需要吸引投資者 , 來建立基礎建設電力系統、道路、港口、機場、大樓 。
you'll need to attract firms , who will come hire the people who move there first .	你會需要吸引公司 , 誰會先僱用先前移民的人 。
and you'll need to attract families , the residents who will come and live there permanently , raise their children , get an education for their children , and get their first job .	你會需要吸引家庭 , 那些會永久來到那裡的居民 , 培育他們的孩子 , 為他們的孩子接受教育 , 取得他們的第一份工作 。
with that charter , people will move there .	有了這個特點 , 人們就會搬到那裡去 。
the city can be built .	城市可以被建造出來 。
and we can scale this model .	我們可以擴大這個模型 。
we can go do it over and over again .	我們可以一遍又一遍做 。
to make it work , we need good rules . we've already discussed that .	要成功 , 我們需要好的規則 。 我們已經討論過了 。
those are captured in the charter .	這些都是章節拍的 。
we also need the choices for people .	我們也需要人民的選擇 。
that's really built into the model if we allow for the possibility of building cities on uninhabited land .	這真的是建立在模型中如果我們能讓建立在無居住的土地上
you start from uninhabited territory .	從未居住的領域開始 。
people can come live under the new charter , but no one is forced to live under it .	人們可以生活在新的章節之下 , 但沒有人會被迫生活在其中 。
the final thing we need are choices for leaders .	最後 , 我們需要的是領導者的選擇 。
and , to achieve the kind of choices we want for leaders we need to allow for the potential for partnerships between nations: cases where nations work together , in effect , de facto , the way china and britain worked together to build , first a little enclave of the market model , and then scale it throughout china .	為了達成我們想為領導者的選擇 , 我們要讓國家之間的合作夥伴有潛力:國家合作 , 實際上 , 中國和英國同心協力 , 首先建立市場模式 , 然後將它擴大到整個中國 。
in a sense , britain , inadvertently , through its actions in hong kong , did more to reduce world poverty than all the aid programs that we've undertaken in the last century .	在某種意義上 , 英國 , 不經意地 , 透過香港的行動 , 減少了世界貧窮的程度 , 比上個世紀的援助計畫還多 。
so if we allow for these kind of partnerships to replicate this again , we can get those kinds of benefits scaled throughout the world .	所以如果我們允許這種合作關係再複製 , 我們就能得到全世界的這些好處 。
in some cases this will involve a delegation of responsibility , a delegation of control from one country to another to take over certain kinds of administrative responsibilities .	在某些情況下 , 這會涉及到責任的程度 , 從一個國家的控制權 , 到另一個國家的控制權 , 來克服某些行政責任 。
now , when i say that , some of you are starting to think , " well , is this just bringing back colonialism ? "	現在 , 當我這麼說的時候 , 有些人開始想: 「 嗯 , 這只是帶回殖民主義嗎 ? 」
it's not . but it's important to recognize that the kind of emotions that come up when we start to think about these things , can get in the way , can make us pull back , can shut down our ability , and our interest in trying to explore new ideas .	不是 。 但很重要的是 , 當我們開始思考這些東西時 , 會出現的情緒 , 會讓我們退一步 , 可以阻止我們的能力 , 以及我們想要探索新點子的興趣 。
why is this not like colonialism ?	為什麼這不像殖民主義 ?
the thing that was bad about colonialism , and the thing which is residually bad in some of our aid programs , is that it involved elements of coercion and condescension .	殖民主義是不好的 , 在我們的一些援助計畫中是不好的 , 就是它涉及了合作和承認的元素 。
this model is all about choices , both for leaders and for the people who will live in these new places .	這個模式是關於選擇 , 無論是對領導者或對住在這些新地方的人來說 。
and , choice is the antidote to coercion and condescension .	而 , 選擇就是要強迫和接受的解藥 。
so let's talk about how this could play out in practice .	咱們來談談如何在練習上演出 。
let's take a particular leader , raul castro , who is the leader of cuba .	咱們來看看一位特定的領袖 , 拉爾•卡斯楚 , 他是古巴領導者 。
it must have occurred to castro that he has the chance to do for cuba what deng xiaoping did for china , but he doesn't have a hong kong there on the island in cuba .	它一定發生在卡斯楚 , 他有機會為古巴所做的事 , 為中國做了什麼 , 但他在古巴島沒有香港 。
he does , though , have a little bit of light down in the south that has a very special status .	不過 , 他的確有一點光在南方有非常特別的地位 。
there is a zone there , around guantanamo bay , where a treaty gives the united states administrative responsibility for a piece of land that's about twice the size of manhattan .	那裡有一個區塊 , 附近是關塔納摩灣 , 在那裡 , 一個條約給美國行政部門負責一塊土地的大小大約是曼哈頓的兩倍 。
castro goes to the prime minister of canada and says , " look , the yankees have a terrible pr problem .	卡斯楚去到加拿大的總理 , 說: 「 看 , 雅肯斯有一個很糟糕的問題 。
they want to get out .	他們想出去 。
why don't you , canada , take over ?	為何你不 , 加拿大 , 接管你 ?
build run a special administrative zone .	建造一個特殊的行政區 。
allow a new city to be built up there .	讓一個新城市在上面建造 。
allow many people to come in .	讓許多人進來 。
let us have a hong kong nearby .	讓我們附近有香港 。
some of my citizens will move into that city as well .	我的一些市民也會搬進那個城市 。
others will hold back . but this will be the gateway that will connect the modern economy and the modern world to my country . "	其他人則會退回 。 但這將會是將現代經濟和現代社會連結起來的大門 。 」
now , where else might this model be tried ?	現在 , 這個模型還在哪裡呢 ?
well , africa . i've talked with leaders in africa .	嗯 , 非洲 。 我和非洲的領導人談過 。
many of them totally get the notion of a special zone that people can opt into as a rule .	許多人完全理解一個特殊區塊的概念 , 讓人們可以以一個規則作選擇 。
it's a rule for changing rules .	它是改變規則的規則 。
it's a way to create new rules , and let people optin without coercion , and the opposition that coercion can force .	它是一種創造新規則的方法 , 讓人們不需要受到威脅 , 反對法則 。
they also totally get the idea that in some instances they can make more credible promises to longterm investors the kind of investors who will come build the port , build the roads , in a new city they can make more credible promises if they do it along with a partner nation .	他們也完全了解到 , 在某些情況下 , 他們可以讓長期投資人更有信心 , 投資者將來建立港口、建立道路 , 在一個新的城市中 , 他們能做出更有信用的承諾 , 如果他們能和一個夥伴國家合作 。
perhaps even in some arrangement that's a little bit like an escrow account , where you put land in the escrow account and the partner nation takes responsibility for it .	也許甚至在某些安排中 , 有點像人工帳戶 , 你把土地放進帳戶裡 , 伴侶的國家需要負起責任 。
there is also lots of land in africa where new cities could be built .	非洲還有很多土地 , 在那裡 , 新城市可以建造 。
this is a picture i took when i was flying along the coast .	這張照片是我在沿著海岸飛行時拍的 。
there are immense stretches of land like this land where hundreds of millions of people could live .	這裡有大量的土地 , 像這樣的土地 , 數億人可以居住 。
now , if we generalize this and think about not just one or two charter cites , but dozens cities that will help create places for the many hundreds of millions , perhaps billions of people who will move to cities in the coming century is there enough land for them ?	現在 , 若我們把這件事歸納起來 , 想想看 , 不只一或二個特定的居民 , 還能協助數十億的城市創造地方 , 也許數十億人會搬到未來的城市 , 對他們來說有足夠的土地 ?
well , throughout the world , if we look at the lights at night , the one thing that's misleading is that , visually , it looks like most of the world is already built out .	嗯 , 在世界各地 , 如果我們晚上看燈 , 誤導的一件事是 , 視覺上看來 , 大部分的世界已經被建造出來了 。
so let me show you why that's wrong .	所以 , 讓我告訴你們為什麼會這樣 。
take this representation of all of the land .	以所有土地為例 。
turn it into a square that stands for all the arable land on earth .	把它變成一個正方形 , 代表地球上所有可耕地 。
and let these dots represent the land that's already taken up by the cities that three billion people now live in .	讓這些點代表已經被城市佔據的土地 , 現在有三十億人口居住的城市 。
if you move the dots down to the bottom of the rectangle you can see that the cities for the existing three billion urban residents take up only three percent of the arable land on earth .	如果你把這些點移到長方形的底部 , 你可以看到現有的城市有30億的城市居民佔了地球上耕地的3% 。
so if we wanted to build cities for another billion people , they would be dots like this .	所以如果我們想為其他十億人建造城市 , 他們會像這樣做 。
we'd go from three percent of the arable land , to four percent .	我們將從百分之三的耕地變成百分之四 。
we'd dramatically reduce the human footprint on earth by building more cities that people can move to .	我們會大幅降低地球上人類的足跡 , 以建造更多人可以搬到的城市 。
and if these are cities governed by good rules , they can be cities where people are safe from crime , safe from disease and bad sanitation , where people have a chance to get a job .	如果這些都市被好的規則治理 , 他們可以成為城市 , 在那裡 , 人們安全於犯罪、疾病和衛生設施 , 在那裡 , 人們有機會得到工作 。
they can get basic utilities like electricity .	它們能得到基本的功用 , 例如電力 。
their kids can get an education .	他們的孩子可以接受教育 。
so what will it take to get started building the first charter cities , scaling this so we build many more ?	所以 , 要開始建造第一座特區的城市 , 擴大規模 , 才能建造更多 ?
it would help to have a manual .	它會幫助有手冊 。
what university professors could do is write some details that might go into this manual .	大學教授可以做的是寫一些細節 , 可以進入這個手冊 。
you wouldn't want to let us run the cities , go out and design them .	你不會想讓我們經營城市 , 去設計它們 。
you wouldn't let academics out in the wild .	你不會在野外放學者 。
but , you could set us to work thinking about questions like , suppose it isn't just canada that does the deal with raul castro .	但 , 你可以讓我們開始思考像這樣的問題 , 假設這不僅僅是加拿大 , 還能處理拉爾•卡斯楚 。
perhaps brazil comes in as a participant , and spain as well . and perhaps cuba wants to be one of the partners in a fourway joint venture .	也許巴西是參與者 , 也是西班牙 。 也許古巴想要成為四通的合作夥伴之一 。
how would we write the treaty to do that ?	我們要怎麼寫條約才能做到這一點 ?
there is less precedent for that , but that could easily be worked out .	這樣做沒什麼先例 , 但那很容易就成功了 。
how would we finance this ?	我們要如何資助這點呢 ?
turns out singapore and hong kong are cities that made huge gains on the value of the land that they owned when they got started .	結果發現 , 新加坡和香港是城市 , 在他們開始時 , 取得了巨大的利益 。
you could use the gains on the value of the land to pay for things like the police , the courts , but the school system and the health care system too , which make this a more attractive place to live , makes this a place where people have higher incomes which , incidentally , makes the land more valuable .	你可以用土地的價值來支付像警察、法庭、學校體制 , 及健康照護體制 , 讓這個更吸引人的地方居住 , 讓居民有更高的收入 , 順帶一提 , 讓土地更有價值 。
so the incentives for the people helping to construct this zone and build it , and set up the basic rules , go very much in the right direction .	所以 , 人們的動機來協助建構這個區域 , 並建立基礎規則 , 走向正確的方向 。
so there are many other details like this .	所以還有很多類似的細節 。
how could we have buildings that are low cost and affordable for people who work in a first job , assembling something like an iphone , but make those buildings energy efficient , and make sure that they are safe , so they don't fall down in an earthquake or a hurricane .	我們如何能有低成本的建築物 , 讓第一份工作的人能負擔得起 , 組裝像iphone一樣的建築物 , 同時確保他們是安全的 , 所以他們不會落在地震或颶風中 。
many technical details to be worked out , but those of us who are already starting to pursue these things can already tell that there is no roadblock , there's no impediment , other than a failure of imagination , that will keep us from delivering on a truly global winwin solution .	許多技術上的細節 , 都已經開始追尋這些東西的人 , 已經知道沒有道路 , 沒有任何障礙 , 除了缺乏想像力的失敗 , 會讓我們無法實現真正的全球風力解決方案 。
let me conclude with this picture .	讓我總結一下這張照片 。
the reason we can be so well off , even though there is so many people on earth , is because of the power of ideas .	我們之所以能如此順利 , 即使地球上有這麼多人 , 是因為想法的力量 。
we can share ideas with other people , and when they discover them , they share with us .	我們可以和其他人分享想法 , 當他們發現它們時 , 他們會和我們分享 。
it's not like scarce objects , where sharing means we each get less .	它不像稀少物體 , 共享的意思是我們每人的收入較少 。
when we share ideas we all get more .	當我們分享想法時 , 我們都會得到更多 。
when we think about ideas in that way , we usually think about technologies .	當我們以這種方式思考想法時 , 我們通常會想到科技 。
but there is another class of ideas: the rules that govern how we interact with each other ; rules like , let's have a tax system that supports a research university that gives away certain kinds of knowledge for free .	但還有另一種想法:管理我們如何和彼此互動的規則 ; 例如 , 讓我們有一個計程車系統 , 支援一個研究大學 , 讓一些知識自由 。
let's have a system where we have ownership of land that is registered in a government office , that people can pledge as collateral .	讓我們有一個體制 , 我們有政府辦公室註冊的土地 , 人們可以把權力當作商店 。
if we can keep innovating on our space of rules , and particularly innovate in the sense of coming up with rules for changing rules , so we don't get stuck with bad rules , then we can keep moving progress forward and truly make the world a better place , so that people like nelson and his friends don't have to study any longer under the streetlights . thank you .	如果我們能繼續創新我們的規則 , 特別是創新 , 要有改變規則的規則 , 我們就不會陷入不好的規則 , 那麼我們就能繼續進步 , 讓世界變得更美好 , 像nelson和他的朋友不用再在街燈下學習 。 謝謝 。
genomics pioneer craig venter takes a break from his epic roundtheworld expedition to talk about the millions of genes his team has discovered so far in its quest to map the ocean’s biodiversity .	基因組學先驅克萊格•凡特在他的史詩遺棄的探險中休息一下他的團隊發現了數百萬個基因 , 到目前為止 , 以繪製海洋生物多樣性 。
dna , biosphere , biotech , entrepreneur , genetics , invention , oceans , science , technology	dna、生態圈、生物科技、企業家、遺傳學、發明、海洋、科學、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、科技、
craig venter on dna and the sea	dna上的克萊格•凡特和海面上的克萊格•凡特 。
at the break , i was asked by several people about my comments about the aging debate .	休息時間 , 我被幾個人問到我對衰老辯論的評論 。
and this will be my only comment on it .	這將會是我唯一的評論 。
and that is , i understand that optimists greatly outlive pessimists .	那就是 , 我了解樂觀主義者大多超越悲觀主義者 。
what i'm going to tell you about in my 18 minutes is how we're about to switch from reading the genetic code to the first stages of beginning to write the code ourselves .	在我18分鐘內 , 我要告訴各位 , 我們將如何從閱讀基因密碼轉換到開始寫程式碼的第一步 。
it's only 10 years ago this month when we published the first sequence of a freeliving organism , that of haemophilus influenzae .	僅僅在十年前 , 我們發表了一系列免費的有機體 , 大氣流感的第一序列 。
that took a genome project from 13 years down to four months .	這個計畫花了13年到4個月 。
we can now do that same genome project in the order of two to eight hours .	我們現在可以在兩到八個小時內完成同樣的基因組計畫 。
so in the last decade , a large number of genomes have been added: most human pathogens , a couple of plants , several insects and several mammals , including the human genome .	過去十年來 , 大部份的基因組都被加入了:大部份的人類病原體、幾種植物、幾種昆蟲和哺乳類 , 包括人類基因組 。
genomics at this stage of the thinking from a little over 10 years ago was , by the end of this year , we might have between three and five genomes sequenced ; it's on the order of several hundred .	十多年前 , 在這個想法的階段 , 基因組學在今年年底 , 我們可能有三到五個基因組序列 ; 它是數百個 。
we just got a grant from the gordon and betty moore foundation to sequence 130 genomes this year , as a side project from environmental organisms .	我們剛從戈登和貝蒂•摩爾基金會得到獎助 , 到今年的130個基因組序列 , 作為環保有機體的副程式 。
so the rate of reading the genetic code has changed .	所以 , 閱讀基因編碼的速度已經改變了 。
but as we look , what's out there , we've barely scratched the surface on what is available on this planet .	但當我們看 , 外面是什麼 , 我們幾乎沒有抓住地球上可得的表面 。
most people don't realize it , because they're invisible , but microbes make up about a half of the earth's biomass , whereas all animals only make up about one onethousandth of all the biomass .	大部分的人都不知道 , 因為他們是看不見的 , 但微生物組成了地球生物量的一半 , 而所有的動物卻只有三分之一的生物組成 。
and maybe it's something that people in oxford don't do very often , but if you ever make it to the sea , and you swallow a mouthful of seawater , keep in mind that each milliliter has about a million bacteria and on the order of 10 million viruses .	可能是牛津人通常不會做的事 , 但如果你有機會把它做成海水 , 吞下一口海水 , 記住每毫升都有大約一百萬個細菌和一千萬個病毒 。
less than 5 , 000 microbial species have been characterized as of two years ago , and so we decided to do something about it .	不到五千種微生物物種在兩年前就被特徵化了 , 所以我們決定要做點什麼 。
and we started the sorcerer ii expedition , where we were , as with great oceanographic expeditions , trying to sample the ocean every 200 miles .	然後我們開始了 「 冷漠二 」 的探險 , 在那裡 , 我們和大海的探險一樣 , 嘗試在每200英里採集海洋樣本 。
we started in bermuda for our test project , then moved up to halifax , working down the u . s . east coast , the caribbean sea , the panama canal , through to the galapagos , then across the pacific , and we're in the process now of working our way across the indian ocean .	我們從bermuda開始做測試 , 然後搬到哈利法克斯 , 沿著美國東岸工作 , 加勒比海 , 巴拿馬 , 穿越加拉帕戈斯 , 橫越太平洋 , 我們現在正處於橫跨印度洋的過程中 。
it's very tough duty ; we're doing this on a sailing vessel , in part to help excite young people about going into science .	這是非常艱難的任務 ; 我們在航海船上做這件事 , 部分是為了幫助年輕人進入科學領域 。
the experiments are incredibly simple .	實驗非常簡單 。
we just take seawater and we filter it , and we collect different size organisms on different filters , and then take their dna back to our lab in rockville , where we can sequence a hundred million letters of the genetic code every 24 hours .	我們只用海水過濾 , 用不同的過濾器收集不同的大小生物 , 然後把它們的dna帶回我們在岩石維爾的實驗室 , 我們可以每24小時就將一億個字母的基因編碼定下來 。
and with doing this , we've made some amazing discoveries .	藉由這樣做 , 我們有了一些驚人的發現 。
for example , it was thought that the visual pigments that are in our eyes there was only one or two organisms in the environment that had these same pigments .	例如 , 認為在我們的眼睛中只有一兩種有機體存在於環境中 , 有著相同的色素 。
it turns out , almost every species in the upper parts of the ocean in warm parts of the world have these same photoreceptors , and use sunlight as the source of their energy and communication .	結果發現 , 幾乎所有海洋上半部的生物都有相同的光受器 , 用太陽光來作為它們的能量和溝通來源 。
from one site , from one barrel of seawater , we discovered 1 . 3 million new genes and as many as 50 , 000 new species .	從一個地方 , 從一桶海水中 , 我們發現了一百三十萬個新的基因 , 以及五萬個新物種 。
we've extended this to the air now with a grant from the sloan foundation .	我們現在已經把這張圖延伸到空氣中 , 由sloan基金會的補助 。
we're measuring how many viruses and bacteria all of us are breathing in and out every day , particularly on airplanes or closed auditoriums .	我們在測量我們所有人每天都在呼吸的病毒和細菌 , 特別是在飛機上或封閉的聽眾 。
we filter through some simple apparatuses ; we collect on the order of a billion microbes from just a day filtering on top of a building in new york city .	我們過濾了一些簡單的裝置 ; 我們只需要一天從紐約市的一座建築上一天就收集到十億微生物的數量 。
and we're in the process of sequencing all that at the present time .	而我們正處於當下所有這些資料的過程 。
just on the data collection side , just where we are through the galapagos , we're finding that almost every 200 miles , we see tremendous diversity in the samples in the ocean .	就在數據收集的一面 , 我們穿過加拉巴哥群島 , 我們發現幾乎每200英里 , 我們在海洋的樣本中會看到巨大的多樣性 。
some of these make logical sense , in terms of different temperature gradients .	有些是合理的 , 以不同的溫度來看 , 有些是合理的 。
so this is a satellite photograph based on temperatures red being warm , blue being cold and we found there's a tremendous difference between the warm water samples and the cold water samples , in terms of abundant species .	這是一張衛星照片 , 以紅色的溫度為基礎 , 藍色是溫暖 , 藍色是冷的 , 我們發現溫暖的水樣和冷水的樣本有著巨大的差別 。
the other thing that surprised us quite a bit is these photoreceptors detect different wavelengths of light , and we can predict that based on their amino acid sequence .	另一件令我們驚訝的事情是這些光受體偵測到不同的光波長 , 我們可以根據它們的氨基酸序列來預測 。
and these vary tremendously from region to region .	這些差異來自地區到地區 。
maybe not surprisingly , in the deep ocean , where it's mostly blue , the photoreceptors tend to see blue light .	也許不意外的是 , 在深海中 , 它大部分是藍色的 , 光受體通常會看到藍光 。
when there's a lot of chlorophyll around , they see a lot of green light .	當有很多葉綠素附近時 , 它們會看到很多綠光 。
but they vary even more , possibly moving towards infrared and ultraviolet in the extremes .	但它們可能更加不同 , 可能是朝向紅外線和紫外線的極端移動 。
just to try and get an assessment of what our gene repertoire was , we assembled all the data including all of ours thus far from the expedition , which represents more than half of all the gene data on the planet and it totaled around 29 million genes .	只為了試著評估我們的基因的功用 , 我們把所有的資料組合起來 , 包括我們所有的資料 , 遠遠遠超過地球上超過一半的基因資料 , 總共大約有兩千九百萬個基因 。
and we tried to put these into gene families to see what these discoveries are: are we just discovering new members of known families , or are we discovering new families ?	我們試著把這些資料放進基因家庭中 , 看看這些發現是什麼:我們只是發現已知家庭的新成員 , 還是我們發現了新的家庭 ?
and it turns out we have about 50 , 000 major gene families , but every new sample we take in the environment adds in a linear fashion to these new families .	結果發現 , 我們有大約五萬個主要基因家庭 , 但每一種新樣本 , 我們在環境中的每一種樣本 , 都會在這些新家庭中加上線性 。
so we're at the earliest stages of discovery about basic genes , components and life on this planet .	我們在地球上最早期發現基本的基因、元件和生命的階段 。
when we look at the socalled evolutionary tree , we're up on the upper righthand corner with the animals .	當我們觀察所謂的演化樹 , 我們就在右上角和動物一起 。
of those roughly 29 million genes , we only have around 24 , 000 in our genome .	在兩千九百萬個基因中 , 我們的基因只有大約兩萬四千個 。
and if you take all animals together , we probably share less than 30 , 000 and probably maybe a dozen or more thousand different gene families .	如果你把所有動物聚集在一起 , 我們可能就有不到三萬個 , 也許有十萬個不同的基因家庭 。
i view that these genes are now not only the design components of evolution .	我覺得這些基因不僅僅是演化的設計成分 。
and we think in a genecentric view maybe going back to richard dawkins' ideas than in a genomecentric view , which are different constructs of these gene components .	我們認為在一個基因方面也許會回到理查德•達金斯的想法 , 而不是從基因的角度來看 , 這些基因組成的結構是不同的 。
synthetic dna , the ability to synthesize dna , has changed at sort of the same pace that dna sequencing has over the last decade or two , and is getting very rapid and very cheap .	合成dna的能力 , 合成dna的能力 , 隨著dna定序的步驟改變 , 在過去十年或二十年間 , dna的速度越來越快 , 非常便宜 。
our first thought about synthetic genomics came when we sequenced the second genome back in 1995 , and that from mycoplasma genitalium .	我們首先想到合成基因組在1995年我們將第二個基因組定序 , 再從mycollsma的生殖器取得 。
and we have really nice tshirts that say , you know , " i heart my genitalium . "	我們有很棒的t恤 , 上面寫著: 「 我愛我的生殖器 。 」
this is actually just a microorganism .	這其實只是微生物 。
but it has roughly 500 genes .	但它大約有500個基因 。
haemophilus had 1 , 800 genes .	哈伊菲爾斯有1800個基因 。
and we simply asked the question , if one species needs 800 , another 500 , is there a smaller set of genes that might comprise a minimal operating system ?	我們只需要問一個問題 , 如果一個物種需要800 , 另外還有500種 , 是否有較小的基因 , 會組成最小的作業系統 ?
so we started doing transposon mutagenesis .	所以我們開始做跨性別突變 。
transposons are just small pieces of dna that randomly insert in the genetic code .	轉基因只是小小的dna , 隨機插入遺傳密碼 。
and if they insert in the middle of the gene , they disrupt its function .	如果他們在基因的中間插入 , 他們會打斷它的功能 。
so we made a map of all the genes that could take transposon insertions and we called those " nonessential genes . "	所以 , 我們做了一張地圖 , 所有可以將轉性器插入的基因 , 我們稱之為 「 不必要的基因 」 。
but it turns out the environment is very critical for this , and you can only define an essential or nonessential gene based on exactly what's in the environment .	但事實證明 , 環境是非常關鍵的 , 你只能根據環境中什麼東西來定義一個必要或不必要的基因 。
we also tried to take a more directly intellectual approach with the genomes of 13 related organisms , and we tried to compare all of those , to see what they had in common .	我們也嘗試用更直接的智能方法來處理13個相關生物的基因組 , 我們試圖將這些基因做比較 , 看看它們有什麼共通點 。
and we got these overlapping circles . and we found only 173 genes common to all 13 organisms .	我們得到了這些重疊的圓圈 。 我們發現 , 只有173個基因共有13個有機體 。
the pool expanded a little bit if we ignored one intracellular parasite ; it expanded even more when we looked at core sets of genes of around 310 or so .	如果我們忽略一個細胞寄生蟲 , 糞便會擴大一點 ; 當我們觀察核心的核心基因組時 , 糞便會擴大一點 。
so we think that we can expand or contract genomes , depending on your point of view here , to maybe 300 to 400 genes from the minimal of 500 .	所以我們認為我們可以擴大或收縮基因組 , 取決於你的觀點 , 到500年最低的300個基因 。
the only way to prove these ideas was to construct an artificial chromosome with those genes in them , and we had to do this in a cassettebased fashion .	要證明這些點子的唯一方法是建構一個人造染色體 , 與這些基因組組合 , 我們必須在以口袋為基礎的時尚中做這件事 。
we found that synthesizing accurate dna in large pieces was extremely difficult .	我們發現 , 在大片中合成精確的dna是非常困難的 。
ham smith and clyde hutchison , my colleagues on this , developed an exciting new method that allowed us to synthesize a 5 , 000base pair virus in only a twoweek period that was 100 percent accurate , in terms of its sequence and its biology .	哈姆斯•史密斯和克萊德•哈奇森 , 我的同事開發了一種令人興奮的新方法 , 讓我們能在兩週的序列中合成一個5000個鹼基對病毒 , 它的序列和它的生物學 。
it was a quite exciting experiment when we just took the synthetic piece of dna , injected it in the bacteria and all of a sudden , that dna started driving the production of the virus particles that turned around and then killed the bacteria .	這是個相當令人興奮的實驗 , 當我們把合成dna注入細菌中 , 突然間 , dna就開始驅動病毒粒子的生產 , 然後殺死細菌 。
this was not the first synthetic virus a polio virus had been made a year before but it was only one tenthousandth as active and it took three years to do .	這不是第一個合成病毒--小兒麻痺病毒在一年前被製造出來的 , 但它只有一個堅定的活性 , 花了三年才完成 。
this is a cartoon of the structure of phi x 174 .	這是phix-174的結構圖
this is a case where the software now builds its own hardware , and that's the notions that we have with biology .	這是一個軟體現在建立自己的硬體 , 這就是我們對生物的概念 。
people immediately jump to concerns about biological warfare , and i had recent testimony before a senate committee , and a special committee the u . s . government has set up to review this area .	人們馬上就開始關心生物戰事 , 最近我在參議院委員會前證詞 , 美國政府設立了特殊委員會來審查這個區域 。
and i think it's important to keep reality in mind , versus what happens with people's imaginations .	我認為 , 要把現實留在心中是很重要的 , 和人們的想像力是怎樣的 。
basically , any virus that's been sequenced today that genome can be made .	基本上 , 任何今天被基因組定序的病毒 , 都可以被製造出來 。
and people immediately freak out about things about ebola or smallpox , but the dna from this organism is not infective .	人們馬上就對伊波拉或天花感到驚奇 , 但這些生物的dna並不感染 。
so even if somebody made the smallpox genome , that dna itself would not cause infections .	所以即使有人做了天花基因 , dna本身就不會造成感染 。
the real concern that security departments have is designer viruses .	安全部門真正關心的是設計師病毒 。
and there's only two countries , the u . s . and the former soviet union , that had major efforts on trying to create biological warfare agents .	只有兩個國家 , 美國和前蘇聯 , 致力於創造生物戰事代理 。
if that research is truly discontinued , there should be very little activity on the knowhow to make designer viruses in the future .	如果這項研究真的無法持續下去 , 未來應該有非常少的活動來製造設計師病毒 。
i think singlecell organisms are possible within two years .	我認為 , 在兩年內 , 單細胞有機體是有可能的 。
and possibly eukaryotic cells , those that we have , are possible within a decade .	可能是真菌細胞 , 那些我們擁有的細胞 , 可能在十年內就有可能 。
so we're now making several dozen different constructs , because we can vary the cassettes and the genes that go into this artificial chromosome .	所以 , 我們現在正在製造數十種不同的結構 , 因為我們可以將種姓和基因轉換成這種人造染色體 。
the key is , how do you put all of the others ?	關鍵是 , 你要如何把他人放進去 ?
we start with these fragments , and then we have a homologous recombination system that reassembles those into a chromosome .	我們從這些片段開始 , 然後我們有一個同性組合系統 , 將這些片段重新組合成一個染色體 。
this is derived from an organism , deinococcus radiodurans , that can take three million rads of radiation and not be killed .	由一種有機體衍生 , 失智症患者 , 可以接受三百萬張無線輻射 , 不會被殺 。
it reassembles its genome after this radiation burst in about 12 to 24 hours , after its chromosomes are literally blown apart .	它在這個輻射爆發後的基因組 , 大約在12到24小時後 , 它的染色體會被完全拆解 。
this organism is ubiquitous on the planet , and exists perhaps now in outer space due to all our travel there .	這種生物在地球上無所不在 , 或許存在於外太空 , 因為我們的旅行 。
this is a glass beaker after about half a million rads of radiation .	這是一台玻璃啤酒 , 經過五十萬張放射線 。
the glass started to burn and crack , while the microbes sitting in the bottom just got happier and happier .	玻璃開始燃燒和裂縫 , 坐在底部的微生物就變得更快樂、更快樂 。
here's an actual picture of what happens: the top of this shows the genome after 1 . 7 million rads of radiation .	這是一張實際發生的圖片 , 上面顯示了一百七十萬張放射線後的基因組 。
the chromosome is literally blown apart .	染色體是分開的 。
and here's that same dna automatically reassembled 24 hours later .	同樣的dna在24小時後自動重組 。
it's truly stunning that these organisms can do that , and we probably have thousands , if not tens of thousands , of different species on this planet that are capable of doing that .	真的令人驚訝的是 , 這些生物可以做到這一點 , 我們可能有上千種 , 如果不是上萬種 , 在地球上 , 可以做到這一點 。
after these genomes are synthesized , the first step is just transplanting them into a cell without a genome .	在這些基因組被合成之後 , 第一步就是把它們移植到一個沒有基因組的細胞中 。
so we think synthetic cells are going to have tremendous potential , not only for understanding the basis of biology but for hopefully environmental and society issues .	所以我們認為合成細胞將會有巨大的潛力 , 不僅為了了解生物學的基礎 , 還能為環境和社會議題提供希望 。
for example , from the third organism we sequenced , methanococcus jannaschii it lives in boiling water temperatures ; its energy source is hydrogen and all its carbon comes from co2 it captures back from the environment .	例如 , 從第三個我們序列的生物中 , 甲腎上腺素jannaschii它生活在沸騰的水溫中 , 它的能量來源是氫 , 所有的碳來自二氧化碳 , 它從環境中獲取回來 。
so we know lots of different pathways , thousands of different organisms now that live off of co2 , and can capture that back .	所以 , 我們知道許多不同的途徑 , 數千種不同的生物 , 活在二氧化碳之外 , 還能捕捉到它 。
so instead of using carbon from oil for synthetic processes , we have the chance of using carbon and capturing it back from the atmosphere , converting that into biopolymers or other products .	所以 , 與其使用石油作為合成過程 , 我們有使用碳的機會 , 將它從大氣中捕捉回來 , 將它轉換成生物聚合物或其他產品 。
we have one organism that lives off of carbon monoxide , and we use as a reducing power to split water to produce hydrogen and oxygen .	我們有一種生物存在於一氧化碳之外 , 我們用它來降低水分解的能量來產生氫和氧氣 。
also , there's numerous pathways that can be engineered metabolizing methane .	此外 , 有許多途徑可以被改造甲烷 。
and dupont has a major program with statoil in norway to capture and convert the methane from the gas fields there into useful products .	杜邦在挪威有一項重大的計畫 , 來捕集並將甲烷從加油場轉換成有用的產品 。
within a short while , i think there's going to be a new field called " combinatorial genomics , " because with these new synthesis capabilities , these vast gene array repertoires and the homologous recombination , we think we can design a robot to make maybe a million different chromosomes a day .	短暫之內 , 我想有一個新的領域 , 叫做 「 組合基因 」 , 因為這些新的合成能力 , 這些廣大的基因陣列 , 和同性重新組合 , 我們認為我們可以設計一個機器人 , 一天製造一百萬個不同的染色體 。
and therefore , as with all biology , you get selection through screening , whether you're screening for hydrogen production , or chemical production , or just viability .	因此 , 就像所有生物學一樣 , 你透過篩檢來選擇 , 不論你是在為氫生產篩選 , 或是化學生產 , 或單純的可行性 。
to understand the role of these genes is going to be well within reach .	若要了解這些基因的作用 , 就會很明顯 。
we're trying to modify photosynthesis to produce hydrogen directly from sunlight .	我們試著修改光合作用 , 直接從太陽光產生氫 。
photosynthesis is modulated by oxygen , and we have an oxygeninsensitive hydrogenase that we think will totally change this process .	光合作用會調節氧氣 , 我們有一種氧氣敏感的氧氣 , 我們認為會完全改變這個過程 。
we're also combining cellulases , the enzymes that break down complex sugars into simple sugars and fermentation in the same cell for producing ethanol .	我們也在結合細胞 , 酵素會將複雜的糖分解成簡單的糖和發酵 , 以產生乙醇的細胞 。
pharmaceutical production is already under way in major laboratories using microbes .	藥物生產已經在使用微生物的大型實驗室中進行了 。
the chemistry from compounds in the environment is orders of magnitude more complex than our best chemists can produce .	環境中的化合物的化學性質比我們最好的化合物所產生的更複雜 。
i think future engineered species could be the source of food , hopefully a source of energy , environmental remediation and perhaps replacing the petrochemical industry .	我想未來的工程物種可能是食物的來源 , 希望是能量的來源 , 環境的復甦 , 也許可以替代石化產業 。
let me just close with ethical and policy studies .	讓我用倫理和政策研究來做結尾 。
we delayed the start of our experiments in 1999 until we completed a yearandahalf bioethical review as to whether we should try and make an artificial species .	我們在1999年開始了實驗 , 直到我們完成了一年半的生物倫理評論 , 來評估我們是否該嘗試製造人造物種 。
every major religion participated in this .	每一大宗教都參與其中 。
it was actually a very strange study , because the various religious leaders were using their scriptures as law books , and they couldn't find anything in them prohibiting making life , so it must be ok . the only ultimate concerns were biological warfare aspects of this , but gave us the go ahead to start these experiments for the reasons we were doing them .	這其實是個很奇怪的研究 , 因為各式各樣的宗教領袖使用他們的文字作為法律 , 他們無法在他們禁止製造生命的過程中找到任何東西 , 所以 , 沒關係 。 唯一的擔憂是生物戰爭方面的面向 , 但給了我們開始這些實驗 , 原因是我們做這些實驗的理由 。
right now the sloan foundation has just funded a multiinstitutional study on this , to work out what the risk and benefits to society are , and the rules that scientific teams such as my own should be using in this area , and we're trying to set good examples as we go forward .	現在 , sloan基金會剛剛資助了一項跨機構的研究 , 研究對社會的風險和利益 , 以及科學團隊的規則 , 如同我自己應該在這個領域中使用的規則 , 我們正試著在我們繼續前進時設定好的例子 。
these are complex issues .	這些都是複雜的問題 。
except for the threat of bioterrorism , they're very simple issues in terms of , can we design things to produce clean energy , perhaps revolutionizing what developing countries can do and provide through various simple processes .	除了生物恐怖主義的威脅 , 它們是非常簡單的問題 , 我們能否設計出能產生乾淨能源的東西 , 或許能改變開發中國家能做些什麼 , 透過各種簡單的過程提供 。
psychologist philip zimbardo says happiness and success are rooted in a trait most of us disregard: the way we orient toward the past , present and future . he suggests we calibrate our outlook on time as a first step to improving our lives .	心理學家philipzimardo說快樂和成功是根根植在我們大多數人不關心的特質上:我們往過去、現在、未來方向邁進的方式 。 他建議我們在時間軸上 , 來改善我們的生命 。
brain , business , happiness , mind , psychology , science	大腦、商業、快樂、心智、心理、科學、科學、科學、科學、科學、科學、
philip zimbardo prescribes a healthy take on time	philipzimardo開了一段很健康的時間 。
i want to share with you some ideas about the secret power of time , in a very short time .	我想和大家分享一些關於時間的秘密力量的概念 , 很短的時間內 。
video: all right , start the clock please . 30 seconds studio .	影片:好 , 開始時鐘 。 三十秒的工作室 。
keep it quiet please . settle down .	請安靜下來 , 安靜下來 。
it's about time . end sequence . take one .	大概是時間 。 終結一次 。
10 , nine , eight , seven , six , five , four , three , two . . .	10、9、8、7、6、5、4、3、2......
philip zimbardo: let's tune into the conversation of the principals in adam's temptation .	philipzimbardo:咱們來談談亞當的校長在亞當的誘惑中 。
" come on adam , don't be so wishywashy . take a bite . " " i did . "	「 拜託亞當 , 不要那麼願望 , 吃點東西 。 」 我就這麼做了 。 」
" one bite , adam . don't abandon eve . "	「 一口 , adam , 不要放棄eve 。 」
" i don't know , guys .	「 我不知道 , 各位 。
i don't want to get in trouble . "	我不想惹上麻煩 。 」
" okay . one bite . what the hell ? "	「 好 , 一口 , 到底是怎麼回事 ? 」
life is temptation . it's all about yielding , resisting , yes , no , now , later , impulsive , reflective , present focus and future focus .	生命是誘人的 。 它是關於產量、抗拒、是的 , 是的 , 不 , 之後 , 衝動、當下、焦點、未來焦點 。
promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment .	受益的美德落在那一刻的熱情中 。
of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage thank you george bush the majority , 60 percent , yielded to sexual temptations within one year .	十幾歲的女孩 , 她們主宰性腹部和處女 , 直到結婚 , 感謝你 , 喬治布希大部份 , 百分之六十 , 她們在一年內就有性誘惑 。
and most of them did so without using birth control .	大多數人沒有使用生育控制 。
so much for promises .	這麼多的承諾 。
now lets tempt fouryearolds , giving them a treat .	現在讓我們試試四歲的孩子 , 給他們一個治療方法 。
they can have one marshmallow now . but if they wait until the experimenter comes back , they can have two .	他們現在可以有一顆棉花糖 , 但如果他們等到實驗員回來 , 他們就可以有兩顆 。
of course it pays , if you like marshmallows , to wait .	當然 , 如果你喜歡marshmallows , 可以等待它 。
what happens is twothirds of the kids give in to temptation .	發生的事是三分之二的孩子給予誘惑 。
they cannot wait . the others , of course , wait .	他們不能等待 , 當然 , 其他的 , 等等 。
they resist the temptation . they delay the now for later .	他們抗拒誘惑 , 延遲現在 。
walter mischel , my colleague at stanford , went back 14 years later , to try to discover what was different about those kids .	沃爾特•米歇爾 , 我在史丹佛的同事 , 14年後 , 試圖找出那些孩子的不同 。
there were enormous differences between kids who resisted and kids who yielded , in many ways .	在許多方面 , 孩子抗拒和孩子之間有著巨大的差異 。
the kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the sat .	那些在坐上抗拒評分的孩子 , 高出250分 。
that's enormous . that's like a whole set of different iq points .	這很巨大 。 這就像是一整套不同的智商點 。
they didn't get in as much trouble . they were better students .	他們不會惹上麻煩 , 他們是比較好的學生 。
they were selfconfident and determined . and the key for me today , the key for you , is , they were futurefocused rather than presentfocused .	它們是自信和決心 。 今天對我來說 , 關鍵是 , 它們是未來的發展 , 而非具備現代化 。
so what is time perspective ? that's what i'm going to talk about today .	所以 , 時間的觀點是什麼 ? 這是我今天要談的 。
time perspective is the study of how individuals , all of us , divide the flow of your human experience into time zones or time categories .	時間的觀點是關於個人的研究 , 我們所有人 , 把你人類經驗的流程分成時間區或時間分類 。
and you do it automatically and nonconsciously .	然後你就自動做 , 無意識地做 。
they vary between cultures , between nations , between individuals , between social classes , between education levels .	它們不同於文化、國家、個人、社會階級、教育程度之間的差異 。
and the problem is that they can become biased , because you learn to overuse some of them and underuse the others .	問題是 , 它們可以變得偏見 , 因為你學會過度使用其中的一些 , 用到其他的 。
what determines any decision you make ?	你做了什麼決定 ?
you make a decision on which you're going to base an action .	你要做出決定 , 決定你要採取行動 。
for some people it's only about what is in the immediate situation , what other people are doing and what you're feeling .	對某些人來說 , 只是關於立即的狀況 , 其他人在做什麼 , 以及你在想什麼 。
and those people , when they make their decisions in that format we're going to call them " presentoriented , " because their focus is what is now .	而那些人 , 當他們做出決策時 , 我們會稱他們為 「 簡報 」 , 因為他們的焦點是現在 。
for others , the present is irrelevant .	對其他人來說 , 現在是不相關的 。
it's always about " what is this situation like that i've experienced in the past ? "	總是關於 「 我過去所經歷過的這種情況是什麼 ? 」
so that their decisions are based on past memories .	所以他們的決定基於過去的記憶 。
and we're going to call those people " pastoriented , " because they focus on what was .	我們要稱這些人為 「 過去式 」 , 因為他們把焦點放在什麼 。
for others it's not the past , it's not the present , it's only about the future .	對其他人來說 , 不是過去 , 不是現在 , 而是關於未來 。
their focus is always about anticipated consequences .	他們的焦點總是預期後果 。
we're going to call them " futureoriented . " their focus is on what will be .	我們稱之為 「 未來式 」 。 他們的焦點在於將來會發生的事 。
so , time paradox , i want to argue , the paradox of time perspective , is something that influences every decision you make , you're totally unaware of .	所以 , 時間悖論 , 我想說的是 , 時間的悖論 , 是影響你所做的每一決定的影響力 , 你完全不知道的 。
namely , the extent to which you have one of these biased time perspectives .	換句話說 , 你有這種偏見的時間觀點 。
well there is actually six of them . there are two ways to be presentoriented .	其實有六個 。 有兩種方式可以用在現場 。
there is two ways to be pastoriented , two ways to be future .	過去有兩種方式 , 有兩種方式可以成為未來 。
you can focus on pastpositive , or pastnegative .	你可以把焦點放在正面或負面 。
you can be presenthedonistic , namely you focus on the joys of life , or presentfatalist it doesn't matter , your life is controlled .	你可以做個簡報 , 也就是你把焦點放在生活的喜悅上 , 或說簡報主義者不重要 , 你的生活是受控制的 。
you can be futureoriented , setting goals .	你可以是未來的目標 , 設定目標 。
or you can be transcendental future: namely , life begins after death .	或你可能是超然的未來:即 , 生命從死亡開始 。
developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidly depending on the demands of the situation , that's what you've got to learn to do .	發展出能夠改變時間的靈活度的靈活度 , 取決於情況的需求 , 那就是你必須學會做的事 。
so , very quickly , what is the optimal time profile ?	所以 , 很快地 , 最佳的時間檔案是什麼 ?
high on pastpositive . moderately high on future .	正面的高度 。 未來的高度 。
and moderate on presenthedonism .	現代主義的現代主義 。
and always low on pastnegative and presentfatalism .	總是低估了過去的負面和當今的論點 。
so the optimal temporal mix is what you get from the past pastpositive gives you roots . you connect your family , identity and your self .	所以最佳的顳葉混合是你從過去的積極中得到的 , 會給你根 , 連接你的家人、身份和你的自我 。
what you get from the future is wings to soar to new destinations , new challenges .	你從未來得到的是翅膀 , 到新目的地 , 新的挑戰 。
what you get from the present hedonism is the energy , the energy to explore yourself , places , people , sensuality .	你從現在的愛德華主義中得到的能量 , 去探索你自己 , 地點 , 人們 , 人們 , 感覺 。
any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives .	任何時間的觀點都比正面更負面 。
what do futures sacrifice for success ?	未來對成功的犧牲是什麼 ?
they sacrifice family time . they sacrifice friend time .	他們犧牲家人的時間 , 他們犧牲了朋友的時間 。
they sacrifice fun time . they sacrifice personal indulgence .	他們犧牲了有趣的時光 , 他們犧牲了個人的干擾 。
they sacrifice hobbies . and they sacrifice sleep . so it affects their health .	他們犧牲了嗜好 , 他們犧牲了睡眠 。 這影響了他們的健康 。
and they live for work , achievement and control .	他們為工作、成就和控制權而活 。
i'm sure that resonates with some of the tedsters .	我相信 , 和一些ted者共鳴 。
and it resonated for me . i grew up as a poor kid in the south bronx ghetto , a sicilian family everyone lived in the past and present .	對我來說 , 我是南布朗克斯ghetto的一個可憐的孩子 , 一個西西里的家庭 , 住在過去和現在 。
i'm here as a futureoriented person who went over the top , who did all these sacrifices because teachers intervened , and made me future oriented .	我來這裡是一位有著未來的人 , 走過頂端 , 因為老師們採取了這些犧牲 , 讓我成為未來的方向 。
told me don't eat that marshmallow , because if you wait you're going to get two of them , until i learned to balance out .	告訴我不要吃棉花糖 , 因為如果你在等著你會拿到兩個 , 直到我學會了平衡 。
i've added presenthedonism , i've added a focus on the pastpositive , so , at 76 years old , i am more energetic than ever , more productive , and i'm happier than i have ever been .	我加上了 「 簡報主義 」 , 我把焦點放在過去的積極 , 76歲時 , 我比以往更有活力 , 更有生產力 , 我比以前更快樂 。
i just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems: changing the dropout rates of school kids , combating addictions , enhancing teen health , curing vets' ptsd with time metaphors getting miracle cures promoting sustainability and conservation , reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50percent drop out rate , altering appeals to suicidal terrorists , and modifying family conflicts as timezone clashes .	我想說的是 , 我們把這個應用到許多世界問題上:改變學校的輟學率、結合成癮、提升青少年健康、治癒vthsd的方式 , 提升了永續發展和保育 , 讓物理復健率降低了50%的輟學率 , 改變了自殺的恐怖份子 , 以及修改了家庭衝突 。
so i want to end by saying: many of life's puzzles can be solved by understanding your time perspective and that of others .	最後 , 我想說的是:許多生命的謎題可以透過了解你的時間的觀點和其他時間來解決 。
and the idea is so simple , so obvious , but i think the consequences are really profound .	這個想法很簡單 , 很明顯 , 但我認為結果非常深遠 。
how many of today's headlines will matter in 100 years ? 1000 ? kirk citron's " long news " project collects stories that not only matter today , but will resonate for decades even centuries to come . at ted2010 , he highlights recent headlines with the potential to shape our future .	一百年後 , 有多少頭條新聞會造成影響 ? 一百百篇 ? kirkcron的 「 長期新聞計畫 」 收集了許多故事 , 收集了數十年來 , 在ted2010年 , 他發表了近期的頭條 , 以形塑我們未來的潛力 。
future , global issues , media , news , science	未來、全球議題、媒體、科學、科學、科學問題、
kirk citron: and now , the real news	kirkcitron:現在 , 真正的消息是:
we are drowning in news .	新聞淹沒了我們 。
reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year .	光是通勤者每年就發表了三百五十萬個新聞報導 。
that's just one source .	這只是其中一個來源 。
my question is: how many of those stories are actually going to matter in the long run ?	我的問題是:在長期間 , 到底有多少故事會很重要 ?
that's the idea behind the long news .	這是長期新聞背後的想法 。
it's a project by the long now foundation , which was founded by tedsters including kevin kelly and stewart brand .	這個計畫是長期的基金會 , 由tedster所創立的 , 包括凱文凱利和史都華特品牌 。
and what we're looking for is news stories that might still matter 50 or 100 or 10 , 000 years from now .	而我們正在尋找的新聞報導 , 新聞報導來自50或1000或1000年後 。
and when you look at the news through that filter , a lot falls by the wayside .	當你透過那個過濾器看新聞時 , 很多事都跌倒了 。
to take the top stories from the a . p . this last year , is this going to matter in a decade ?	以從a.p.的最佳故事為例 , 去年 , 這會對十年有影響嗎 ?
is this going to matter in 50 or 100 years ?	這在50或100年內是很重要的嗎 ?
okay , that was kind of cool .	好吧 , 真的很酷 。
but the top story of this past year was the economy , and i'm just betting that , sooner or later , this particular recession is going to be old news .	但過去一年最棒的故事是經濟 , 我打賭 , 很快 , 或之後 , 這種衰退將會是老消息 。
so , what kind of stories might make a difference for the future ?	所以 , 什麼樣的故事可能對未來造成影響 ?
well , let's take science .	嗯 , 咱們來看科學 。
someday , little robots will go through our bloodstreams fixing things .	有一天 , 小機器人會透過我們的血液來解決問題 。
that someday is already here if you're a mouse .	某一天 , 如果你是一隻老鼠 , 就已經存在了 。
some recent stories: nanobees zap tumors with real bee venom ; they're sending genes into the brain ; a robot they built that can crawl through the human body .	一些最近的故事:奈米蜜蜂帶有真正的蜜蜂毒液 ; 它們將基因送到大腦中 ; 它們建造的機器人可以爬過人體 。
what about resources ? how are we going to feed nine billion people ?	資源呢 ? 我們要如何餵飽九十億人 ?
we're having trouble feeding six billion today .	我們今天正面臨六十億人的糧食問題 。
as we heard yesterday , there's over a billion people hungry .	正如我們昨天聽到的 , 有超過十億人挨餓 。
britain will starve without genetically modified crops .	英國人不會因為基因改造作物而餓死 。
bill gates , fortunately , has bet a billion on [agricultural] research .	幸運的是 , 比爾•蓋茨在研究中有十億人是賭 。
what about global politics ?	全球政治呢 ?
the world's going to be very different when and if china sets the agenda , and they may .	當中國設定議程時 , 世界會變得非常不同 , 他們可能會 。
they've overtaken the u . s . as the world's biggest car market , they've overtaken germany as the largest exporter , and they've started doing dna tests on kids to choose their careers .	他們已經超過了美國 , 作為世界上最大的汽車市場 , 他們已經把德國當作最大的出口國 , 他們開始在孩子們身上做dna檢測 。
we're finding all kinds of ways to push back the limits of what we know .	我們找到各式各樣的方法 , 來推回我們所知的極限 。
some recent discoveries: there's an ant colony from argentina that has now spread to every continent but antarctica ; there's a selfdirected robot scientist that's made a discovery soon , science may no longer need us , and life may no longer need us either ; a microbe wakes up after 120 , 000 years .	最近的一些發現:阿根廷的蟻群現在已經擴散到每一塊大陸 , 但南極洲 , 有一個自主導的機器人 , 很快就發現了 , 科學不再需要我們 , 生命也不再需要我們 ; 一個微生物在十二萬年後出現了 。
it seems that with or without us , life will go on .	看似有沒有我們 , 生命會持續下去 。
but my pick for the top long news story of this past year was this one: water found on the moon .	但是我在過去一年的長篇報導中挑選了這篇文章:水在月球上找到了 。
makes it a lot easier to put a colony up there .	讓蟻群更容易放到那裡 。
and if nasa doesn't do it , china might , or somebody in this room might write a big check .	如果太空總署不做 , 中國可能 , 或在座的某個人可能會寫很大的支票 。
my point is this: in the long run , some news stories are more important than others .	我的重點是:在長期來看 , 有些新聞故事比其他新聞更重要 。
planetary scientist carolyn porco shows images from the cassini voyage to saturn , focusing on its largest moon , titan , and on frozen enceladus , which seems to shoot jets of ice .	地球科學家carolynporco展示了來自卡西尼航行到土星的影像 , 把焦點放在最大的月球、土衛二 , 和冰凍的土衛二上 , 這似乎是冰射擊 。
nasa , design , exploration , science , space , technology , universe , visualizations	nasa、設計、探索、科學、太空、科技、宇宙 , 視覺化視覺化 。
carolyn porco flies us to saturn	卡羅琳•普拉科斯讓我們飛來土星飛來飛去 。
in the next 18 minutes , i'm going to take you on a journey .	在接下來的18分鐘裡 , 我要帶你們踏上一段旅程 。
and it's a journey that you and i have been on for many years now , and it began some 50 years ago , when humans first stepped off our planet .	這段旅程是你和我已經經歷了好幾年 , 五十年前 , 人類第一次踏出地球 。
and in those 50 years , not only did we literally , physically set foot on the moon , but we have dispatched robotic spacecraft to all the planets all eight of them and we have landed on asteroids , we have rendezvoused with comets , and , at this point in time , we have a spacecraft on its way to pluto , the body formerly known as a planet .	在那50年裡 , 我們不僅僅是真的在月球上定下來 , 我們還將機械太空船分散到所有行星中的八個行星上 , 我們已經登上了小行星 , 在此時此刻 , 我們有了一艘太空船 , 航行到冥王星的路上 , 前面被稱為 「 行星 」 。
and all of these robotic missions are part of a bigger human journey: a voyage to understand something , to get a sense of our cosmic place , to understand something of our origins , and how earth , our planet , and we , living on it , came to be .	所有這些機械任務都是人類旅程的一部分:一趟旅程 , 去理解某樣東西 , 去了解我們的宇宙起源 , 了解我們的地球 , 以及我們居住的地球 。
and of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this , there's saturn . and we have been to saturn before we visited saturn in the early 1980s but our investigations of saturn have become far more indepth in detail since the cassini spacecraft , traveling across interplanetary space for seven years , glided into orbit around saturn in the summer of 2004 , and became at that point the farthest robotic outpost that humanity had ever established around the sun .	而太陽系中所有我們可能去尋找像這樣的問題的答案 , 土星在1980年代早期我們去過土星探訪過土星 , 但我們對土星的調查已經變得更加深刻 , 自卡西尼號太空船七年來 , 橫跨星際空間 , 橫跨土星 , 在2004年夏天就在土星周圍繞行 , 當時人類在太陽周圍的最遙遠的飛行軌道上 。
now , the saturn system is a rich planetary system .	土星系統是個豐富的行星系統 。
it offers mystery , scientific insight and obviously splendor beyond compare , and the investigation of this system has enormous cosmic reach .	它提供了神秘、科學的洞察 , 顯然 , 除了比賽之外 , 對於這個系統的調查有巨大的宇宙接觸 。
in fact , just studying the rings alone , we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies .	事實上 , 光靠研究圓圈 , 我們就有很多關於恆星的圓盤和氣體的知識 , 我們稱之為 「 螺旋星系 」 。
and here's a beautiful picture of the andromeda nebula , which is our closest , largest spiral galaxy to the milky way .	這裡有一個美麗的圖片 , 由andromedanebula , 這是我們最接近的最大螺旋星系 , 到銀河系 。
and then , here's a beautiful composite of the whirlpool galaxy , taken by the hubble space telescope .	然後 , 這是個美麗的旋風星系 , 由哈伯太空望遠鏡所拍攝的 。
so the journey back to saturn is really part of and is also a metaphor for a much larger human voyage to understand the interconnectedness of everything around us , and also how humans fit into that picture .	所以 , 回到土星的旅程其實是人類旅行的一部分 , 也是人類旅行的象徵 , 來了解我們周圍的所有事物之間的關聯性 , 以及人類如何融入這張照片 。
and it pains me that i can't tell you all that we have learned with cassini .	這讓我感到痛苦 , 我無法告訴你們我們在卡西尼學到的一切 。
i can't show you all the beautiful pictures that we've taken in the last two and a half years , because i simply don't have the time .	我無法向你們展示我們過去兩年半所拍攝的美麗照片 , 因為我沒有時間 。
so i'm going to concentrate on two of the most exciting stories that have emerged out of this major exploratory expedition that we are conducting around saturn , and have been for the past two and a half years .	所以我要專注於這次重大的探索探險旅程中 , 兩個最令人興奮的故事 , 我們正在進行土星的探險 , 過去兩年半以來都是如此 。
saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons .	土星是由一大群多樣的衛星所組成的 。
they range in size from a few kilometers across to as big across as the u . s .	它們的大小範圍是從幾公里長到像美國一樣大 。
most of the beautiful pictures we've taken of saturn , in fact , show saturn in accompaniment with some of its moons . here's saturn with dione , and then , here's saturn showing the rings edgeon , showing you just how vertically thin they are , with the moon enceladus .	我們拍攝的土星大部分的美麗照片 , 事實上 , 和一些月球共存 , 這裡是土星的土星 , 這裡是土星 , 這裡是土星 , 這裡是土星的邊緣 , 向你展示它們是多麼薄 , 它們是月球土衛二 。
now , two of the 47 moons that saturn has are standouts .	土星的47個衛星中有兩個是站著的 。
and those are titan and enceladus . titan is saturn's largest moon , and , until cassini had arrived there , was the largest single expanse of unexplored terrain that we had remaining in our solar system .	這些是土衛二和土衛二 。 土衛六是土星最大的衛星 , 直到卡西尼抵達那裡 , 是我們太陽系中最大的一個未被探索的地形 。
and it is a body that has long intrigued people who've watched the planets .	這個身體有著很長的好奇心 , 看過這個星球的人 。
it has a very large , thick atmosphere , and in fact , its surface environment was believed to be more like the environment we have here on the earth , or at least had in the past , than any other body in the solar system .	它的大氣層非常厚 , 事實上 , 它的表面環境被認為比較像我們在地球上所擁有的環境 , 或至少在過去 , 比太陽系中任何其他的身體都更像 。
its atmosphere is largely molecular nitrogen , like you are breathing here in this room , except that its atmosphere is suffused with simple organic materials like methane and propane and ethane .	它的大氣是大氣中的分子氮 , 就像你在這個房間裡呼吸一樣 , 除了它的大氣中有機物質 , 像是甲烷、丙烷和乙烷 。
and these molecules high up in the atmosphere of titan get broken down , and their products join together to make haze particles .	這些分子在泰坦的大氣層中高度被破壞 , 它們的產品結合在一起 , 製造了 「 駭 」 粒子 。
this haze is ubiquitous . it's completely global and enveloping titan .	這種帽子無所不在 , 完全是全球性的 , 包含了土衛六 。
and that's why you cannot see down to the surface with our eyes in the visible region of the spectrum .	這也是為什麼你看不見我們眼睛的表面 , 在可見的光譜範圍內 。
but these haze particles , it was surmised , before we got there with cassini , over billions and billions of years , gently drifted down to the surface and coated the surface in a thick organic sludge .	但在我們和卡西尼來到那裡之前 , 已經有數十億年了 , 溫和地面覆蓋了表面 , 以厚厚的有機水泥覆蓋了表面 。
so like the equivalent , the titan equivalent , of tar , or oil , or what we didn't know what .	如同土衛六、油、石油等同於我們不知道的
but this is what we suspected . and these molecules , especially methane and ethane , can be liquids at the surface temperatures of titan .	但這是我們懷疑的 。 這些分子 , 尤其是甲烷和乙烷 , 在泰坦的表面溫度下 , 可能是液體 。
and so it turns out that methane is to titan what water is to the earth .	結果發現 , 甲烷就是土衛六 , 水對地球來說是什麼 。
it's a condensable in the atmosphere , and so recognizing this circumstance brought to the fore a whole world of bizarre possibilities . you can have methane clouds , ok , and above those clouds , you have this hundreds of kilometers of haze , which prevent any sunlight from getting to the surface .	它在大氣中是可容忍的 , 所以意識到這種狀況 , 導致整個怪異的可能性世界 。 你可以有甲烷雲 , 在那些雲層之上 , 你有數百公里的洞 , 防止陽光到達地表 。
the temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero fahrenheit .	表面的溫度低於華氏零度的350度 。
but despite that cold , you could have rain falling down on the surface of titan .	儘管如此寒冷 , 你還是可以在泰坦的表面下降雨 。
and doing on titan what rain does on the earth: it carves gullies ; it forms rivers and cataracts ; it can create canyons ; it can pool in large basins and craters .	在土衛二上所做的:它雕刻了水道 , 形成了河流和洞穴 ; 它可以創造峽谷 ; 它可以在大盆地和坑洞中池塘 。
it can wash the sludge off high mountain peaks and hills , down into the lowlands . so stop and think for a minute .	它可以洗掉高山峰和山丘 , 進入低地 。 停下來 , 思考一下 。
try to imagine what the surface of titan might look like .	試著想像土衛六的表面看起來是什麼樣子 。
it's dark . high noon on titan is as dark as deep earth twilight on the earth .	它是黑暗的 , 鐵達尼號的高度和地球深海一樣黑暗 。
it's cold , it's eerie , it's misty , it might be raining , and you might be standing on the shores of lake michigan brimming with paint thinner .	它很冷 , 很爛 , 很糟糕 , 可能是下雨 , 你可能會站在密西根湖邊的密西根湖邊 , 用油漆刷刷 。
that is the view that we had of the surface of titan before we got there with cassini , and i can tell you that what we have found on titan , though it is not the same in detail , is every bit as fascinating as that story is .	這是我們在和卡西尼去到那裡之前的土衛六表面 , 我可以告訴你 , 我們在土衛六所發現的 , 雖然它的細節不一樣 , 和那個故事一樣迷人 。
and for us , it has been like the cassini people it has been like a jules verne adventure come true .	對我們來說 , 這就像是卡西尼人一樣 , 曾經是青少年的冒險 。
as i said , it has a thick , extensive atmosphere .	如我所說 , 它有很厚的大氣層 。
this is a picture of titan , backlit by the sun , with the rings as a beautiful backdrop .	這是一張泰坦的背景 , 背面是太陽 , 光環是美麗的背景 。
and yet another moon there i don't even know which one it is . it's a very extensive atmosphere .	另外一個月球 , 我甚至不知道它是哪一個 。 它是非常廣泛的大氣層 。
we have instruments on cassini which can see down to the surface through this atmosphere , and my camera system is one of them .	我們有卡西尼號的儀器可以透過大氣層看到表面 , 我的攝影機系統是其中之一 。
and we have taken pictures like this .	我們拍了像這樣的照片 。
and what you see is bright and dark regions , and that's about as far as it got for us .	而你所看到的是明亮又暗的區域 , 就跟我們所看到的一樣 。
it was so mystifying: we couldn't make out what we were seeing on titan .	這太神秘了:我們無法在泰坦看到什麼 。
when you look closer at this region , you start to see things like sinuous channels we didn't know . you see a few round things .	當你仔細看這個區域 , 你就會開始看到像我們所不知道的一連串頻道 。 你可以看到一些圓形的東西 。
this , we later found out , is , in fact , a crater , but there are very few craters on the surface of titan , meaning it's a very young surface .	後來我們發現 , 事實上 , 一個坑洞 , 但土衛六表面有很少的坑坑 , 意思是它是很年輕的表面 。
and there are features that look tectonic .	有些特徵看起來很像地形 。
they look like they've been pulled apart .	看起來他們被拉開了 。
whenever you see anything linear on a planet , it means there's been a fracture , like a fault .	每當你在星球上看到任何線性時 , 它就意味著有一種裂痕 , 像個錯 。
and so it's been tectonically altered .	所以它已經在線性上改變了 。
but we couldn't make sense of our images , until , six months after we got into orbit , an event occurred that many have regarded as the highlight of cassini's investigation of titan .	但我們無法理解我們的影像 , 直到我們進入軌道六個月後 , 一個事件發生了 , 許多人已經被視為是卡西尼對泰坦的調查 。
and that was the deployment of the huygens probe , the europeanbuilt huygens probe that cassini had carried for seven years across the solar system . we deployed it to the atmosphere of titan , it took two and a half hours to descend , and it landed on the surface .	那個就是蜂巢探測器的部署 , 歐洲建造的蜂箱 , 卡西尼號在太陽系的七年間運送了它 。 我們將它部署到泰坦的大氣層 , 花了兩個半小時的時間在下降 , 然後它落在地表上 。
and i just want to emphasize how significant an event this is .	我想強調一下這個事件有多重要 。
this is a device of human making , and it landed in the outer solar system for the first time in human history .	這是人類製造的裝置 , 它是人類史上第一次登陸的太陽系 。
it is so significant that , in my mind , this was an event that should have been celebrated with ticker tape parades in every city across the u . s . and europe , and sadly , that wasn't the case .	在我腦海中 , 這件事實在太重要了 , 在美國和歐洲和歐洲的每個城市 , 都應該要慶祝 , 不幸的是 , 這並非如此 。
it was significant for another reason . this is an international mission , and this event was celebrated in europe , in germany , and the celebratory presentations were given in english accents , and american accents , and german accents , and french and italian and dutch accents .	這是另一個原因 。 這是國際使命 , 這個事件在歐洲、德國、慶祝的 , 和慶祝的簡報在英國、美國口音、德國口音、法語、義大利語、義大利語、荷蘭語和荷蘭口音 。
it was a moving demonstration of what the words " united nations " are supposed to mean: a true union of nations joined together in a colossal effort for good .	它是一個動人的演示 , 說明了 「 聯合國 」 這個詞的真正意義:一個真正的聚會 , 團結在一個好的努力中 。
and , in this case , it was a massive undertaking to explore a planet , and to come to understand a planetary system that , for all of human history , had been unreachable , and now humans had actually touched it .	在這個案例中 , 要探索一個星球 , 要了解一個行星的行星系統 , 對於所有人類歷史來說 , 都難以置信 , 現在人類已經碰到它了 。
so it was i mean , i'm getting goose bumps just talking about it .	所以 , 我的意思是 , 我只是在談它 。
it was a tremendously emotional event , and it's something that i will personally never forget , and you shouldn't either .	那是個極大的情緒事件 , 我個人永遠不會忘記 , 而你也不該忘記 。
but anyway , the probe took measurements of the atmosphere on the way down , and it also took panoramic pictures .	但總之 , 探測器在降低大氣層的測量結果也拍了全景照片 。
and i can't tell you what it was like to see the first pictures of titan's surface from the probe . and this is what we saw .	我不能告訴你們 , 第一次從探測器看到泰坦的表面是什麼樣子 。 這是我們所看到的 。
and it was a shocker , because it was everything we wanted those other pictures taken from orbit to be .	這是個令人震驚的事件 , 因為我們希望這些照片從軌道上拍下的 。
it was an unambiguous pattern , a geological pattern .	它是個不可思議的模式 , 一個地質的模式 。
it's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids .	這種傾斜的排水模式只能透過液體流來形成 。
and you can follow these channels and you can see how they all converge .	你可以跟著這些管道 , 你可以看到它們是如何融合的 。
and they converge into this channel here , which drains into this region .	他們把這個管道轉換成這個區域 。
you are looking at a shoreline .	你正在看海岸線 。
was this a shoreline of fluids ? we didn't know .	這是流體的海岸線嗎 ? 我們不知道 。
but this is somewhat of a shoreline .	但這是一條海岸線 。
this picture is taken at 16 kilometers .	這張照片是在16公里拍的 。
this is the picture taken at eight kilometers , ok ? again , the shoreline .	這張照片拍攝於8公里 , 好嗎 ? 同樣的 , 海岸線 。
okay , now , 16 kilometers , eight kilometers this is roughly an airline altitude .	好 , 現在 , 16公里 , 8公里--這大概是一架飛機的高度 。
if you were going to take an airplane trip across the u . s . , you would be flying at these altitudes .	如果你要穿越美國的飛機 , 你會在這些高度飛行 。
so , this is the picture you would have at the window of titanian airlines as you fly across the surface of titan .	這張照片是你在鐵達尼亞航空的窗邊飛過泰坦海面時會看到的 。
and then finally , the probe came to rest on the surface , and i'm going to show you , ladies and gentlemen , the first picture ever taken from the surface of a moon in the outer solar system .	最後 , 探測器到了地表上 , 我要給你們看的是 , 女士們先生們 , 這是從外太陽系表面拍的第一張照片 。
and here is the horizon , ok ?	這是地平線 , 好嗎 ?
these are probably water ice pebbles , yes ?	這些可能是冰石 , 對嗎 ?
and obviously , it landed in one of these flat , dark regions and it didn't sink out of sight . so it wasn't fluid that we landed in .	很顯然 , 它落在一個平坦、黑暗的區域中 , 它並沒有從視線下沉 。 所以它不是我們降落的液體 。
what the probe came down in was basically the titan equivalent of a mud flat .	探測器的來源基本上等同於泥土的平面 。
this is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane .	這是一個沒有隔離的土地 , 被液態甲烷給淹沒了 。
and it's probably the case that this material has washed off the highlands of titan through these channels that we saw , and has drained over billions of years to fill in lowlying basins .	可能是這樣 , 這種材料已經從土衛六的高地上清洗掉了土衛六 , 經過我們看到的這些管道 , 已經耗盡了數十億年的時間 , 來填補低盆地 。
and that is what the huygens probe landed in .	而那就是赤裸的探測器所在的地方 。
but still , there was no sign in our images , or even in the huygens' images , of any large , open bodies of fluids .	但是 , 我們的影像中沒有任何跡象 , 甚至在huygens的影像中 , 任何大型、開放的液體 。
where were they ? it got even more puzzling when we found dunes .	牠們在哪裡 ? 當我們發現沙丘時 , 牠們會變得更困惑 。
ok , so this is our movie of the equatorial region of titan , showing these dunes . these are dunes that are 100 meters tall , separated by a few kilometers , and they go on for miles and miles and miles .	好 , 這是我們在titan的赤道區域的電影 , 顯示這些沙丘 。 這些是100公尺高的沙丘 , 分離了幾公里 , 數英里長 。
there's hundreds , up to a 1 , 000 or 1 , 200 miles of dunes .	有數百、一千或一百英里的沙丘 。
this is the saharan desert of titan .	這是泰坦的撒哈拉沙漠
it's obviously a place which is very dry , or you wouldn't get dunes .	很明顯地 , 這個地方很乾燥 , 或你沒辦法得到沙丘 。
so again , it got puzzling that there were no bodies of fluid , until finally , we saw lakes in the polar regions .	再一次 , 這讓人感到困惑 , 那時沒有液體 , 直到終於 , 我們在北極地區看到湖泊 。
and there is a lake scene in the south polar region of titan .	在titan南極有一個湖景 。
it's about the size of lake ontario .	大約是安大略湖的大小 。
and then , only a week and a half ago , we flew over the north pole of titan and found , again , we found a feature here the size of the caspian sea .	接著 , 半年前 , 我們飛越了泰坦北極 , 再次發現 , 我們發現一個特徵 , 大小和卡斯比亞海一樣大 。
so it seems that the liquids , for some reason we don't understand , or during at least this season , are apparently at the poles of titan .	所以 , 似乎液體 , 基於某些原因 , 至少在這個季節 , 很明顯地位在泰坦的北極 。
and i think you would agree that we have found titan is a remarkable , mystical place . it's exotic , it's alien , but yet strangely earthlike , and having earthlike geological formations and a tremendous geographical diversity , and is a fascinating world whose only rival in the solar system for complexity and richness is the earth itself .	我想你會認同我們已經發現土衛六是一個非常奇特、神秘的地方 。 它是外星人 , 但卻是很奇怪的地球形式 , 像地球一樣 , 地球有著巨大的地理多樣性 , 也是一個令人著迷的世界 , 一個在太陽系中只有複雜和豐富才是地球本身 。
and so now we go onto enceladus . enceladus is a small moon , it's about a tenth the size of titan . and you can see it here next to england , just to show you the size . this is not meant to be a threat .	現在我們來到土衛二 。 土衛二是一個小月 , 它的大小大約是土衛六的十分之一 。 你可以看到它旁邊的英格蘭 , 只是要給你看大小 。 這不是威脅 。
and enceladus is very white , it's very bright , and its surface is obviously wrecked with fractures .	土衛二是非常白的 , 它是非常明亮的 , 它的表面很明顯地破碎了 。
it is a very geologically active body .	它是非常地活躍的身體 。
but the mother lode of discoveries on enceladus was found at the south pole and we're looking at the south pole here where we found this system of fractures .	但在土衛二上的發現之母就在南極找到了 , 我們現在看到的是南極 , 我們發現了這個碎形系統 。
and they're a different color because they're a different composition .	它們是不同的顏色 , 因為它們是不同的組成 。
they are coated . these fractures are coated with organic materials .	它們是被覆蓋的 。 這些碎片是被有機材料覆蓋的 。
moreover , this whole , entire region , the south polar region , has elevated temperatures . it's the hottest place on the planet , on the body .	此外 , 整個南極地區 , 已經升高溫度 。 這是地球上最熱的地方 。
that's as bizarre as finding that the antarctic on the earth is hotter than the tropics .	這有點奇怪 , 發現地球上南極洲的溫度比熱帶地區熱帶的溫度更高 。
and then , when we took additional pictures , we discovered that from these fractures are issuing jets of fine , icy particles extending hundreds of miles into space .	接著 , 當我們拍了額外的照片 , 我們發現 , 從這些碎片中 , 正引發好的噴射機 , 冰粒將數百英里延伸到太空中 。
and when we colorcode this image , to bring out the faint light levels , we see that these jets feed a plume that , in fact , we see , in other images , goes thousands of miles into the space above enceladus .	當我們把這張影像編碼出來 , 把這些微弱的光線引出來 , 我們可以看到這些噴射機在其他圖片中 , 事實上 , 我們看到 , 在土衛二上千英里的太空中 。
my team and i have examined images like this , and like this one , and have thought about the other results from cassini .	我和我的團隊已經檢查過像這樣的影像 , 像這張 , 考慮了卡西尼的其他結果 。
and we have arrived at the conclusion that these jets may be erupting from pockets of liquid water under the surface of enceladus .	我們得出的結論是這些噴射機可能是從土衛二表面下的液態水中噴出來的 。
so we have , possibly , liquid water , organic materials and excess heat .	所以 , 我們有 , 可能是液態水、有機物質和過度熱能 。
in other words , we have possibly stumbled upon the holy grail of modern day planetary exploration , or in other words , an environment that is potentially suitable for living organisms .	換句話說 , 我們可能偶然發現了現代行星探索的聖杯 , 或者 , 換句話說 , 一個適合生物的環境 。
and i don't think i need to tell you that the discovery of life elsewhere in our solar system , whether it be on enceladus or elsewhere , would have enormous cultural and scientific implications .	我不認為我需要告訴你們 , 在太陽系中其他地方發現了生命 , 不論是在土衛二或其他地方 , 都會有巨大的文化和科學上的影響 。
because if we could demonstrate that genesis had occurred not once , but twice , independently , in our solar system , then that means , by inference , it has occurred a staggering number of times throughout the universe and its 13 . 7 billion year history .	因為如果我們能夠證明 , 不只一次 , 而是在我們的太陽系獨立的兩倍 , 那就意味著 , 基礎上 , 它在宇宙中發生了驚人的數量 , 且它的歷史有十三十七億年 。
right now , earth is the only planet still that we know is teeming with life .	現在 , 地球是唯一一個我們所知是充滿生命的行星 。
it is precious , it is unique , it is still , so far , the only home we've ever known .	它是珍貴的 , 它是獨一無二的 , 到目前為止 , 只有我們所知唯一的家 。
and if any of you were alert and coherent during the 1960s and we'd forgive you , if you weren't , ok you would remember this very famous picture taken by the apollo 8 astronauts in 1968 .	如果你們當中有人在1960年代和1960年代的警告和協調 , 我們會原諒你們 , 如果你不是 , 那你會記得1968年阿波羅8號太空人拍的這張著名的照片 。
it was the first time that earth was imaged from space , and it had an enormous impact on our sense of place in the universe , and our sense of responsibility for the protection of our own planet .	這是第一次 , 地球是來自太空的影像 , 它對我們在宇宙中的位置有著巨大的影響 , 我們對於保護地球的責任感有著巨大的影響 。
well , we on cassini have taken an equivalent first , a picture that no human eye has ever seen before .	嗯 , 我們在卡西尼拍了一張相同的第一張照片 , 一張前所未見的人類眼睛 。
it is a total eclipse of the sun , seen from the other side of saturn .	它是太陽的完整日蝕 , 從土星的另一側看到 。
and in this impossibly beautiful picture , you see the main rings backlit by the sun , you see the refracted image of the sun and you see this ring created , in fact , by the exhalations of enceladus .	在這張不可思議的美麗照片中 , 你可以看到太陽的主要環狀物 , 你可以看到太陽的折射影像 , 你可以看到這個環 , 事實上 , 由土衛二的排除 。
but as if that weren't brilliant enough , we can spot , in this beautiful image , sight of our own planet , cradled in the arms of saturn's rings .	但如果這還不夠聰明 , 我們可以在這個美麗的圖像中看到我們星球的景象 , 在土星的環中爬行 。
now , there is something deeply moving about seeing ourselves from afar , and capturing the sight of our little , blueocean planet in the skies of other worlds .	現在 , 深深地看待我們自己從遠處移動 , 捕捉我們在其他世界的藍綠色星球的視野 。
and that , and the perspective of ourselves that we gain from that , may be , in the end , the finest reward that we earn from this journey of discovery that started half a century ago .	這樣 , 和我們從中得到的觀點 , 可能是 , 最終 , 我們從這個發現的旅程中得到最好的獎賞 , 從半個世紀開始 。
as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped . this slows the delivery of aid after a disaster and hides the economic potential of unused lands and unknown roads . in this short talk , google's lalitesh katragadda demos map maker , a group mapmaking tool that people around the globe are using to map their world .	在2005年 , 只有15%的世界被繪製了 。 這個緩慢的援助 , 在災難之後 , 隱藏了無用的土地和未知的道路 。 在這個短短的演講中 , google的拉利特•卡特拉特•德達德莫斯地圖 , 一個團體的地圖工具 , 全世界的人都在用繪製他們的世界地圖 。
collaboration , design , map , technology	合作、設計、地圖、科技、科技、科技、
lalitesh katragadda: making maps to fight disaster , build economies	拉利特•卡拉特達:創造出對抗災難的地圖 , 建立經濟體 。
in 2008 , cyclone nargis devastated myanmar .	2008年 , 颶風納吉斯摧毀了緬甸 。
millions of people were in severe need of help .	數百萬人急需幫忙 。
the u . n . wanted to rush people and supplies to the area .	聯合國想要趕人並供應給這個區域 。
but there were no maps , no maps of roads , no maps showing hospitals , no way for help to reach the cyclone victims .	但沒有地圖 , 沒有道路的地圖 , 沒有顯示醫院的地圖 , 無法幫助到周邊的受害者 。
when we look at a map of los angeles or london , it is hard to believe that as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geocodable level of detail .	當我們看洛杉磯或倫敦的地圖時 , 很難相信 , 在2005年 , 世界上只有15%的人口被繪製成地理的細節 。
the u . n . ran headfirst into a problem that the majority of the world's populous faces: not having detailed maps .	聯合國執行一個問題 , 讓世界上大部分的民眾面孔都能解決:沒有詳細的地圖 。
but help was coming .	但幫助即將來臨 。
at google , 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120 , 000 kilometers of roads , 3 , 000 hospitals , logistics and relief points .	在google , 40個志工用了新軟體來繪製十二萬公里的道路 , 三千間醫院、物流和鬆散點 。
and it took them four days .	他們花了四天的時間 。
the new software they used ? google mapmaker .	他們使用的新軟體 ? google地圖製造商 。
google mapmaker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally .	谷歌地圖製造者是一項技術 , 讓我們每個人都能夠繪製我們所知的地圖 。
people have used this software to map everything from roads to rivers , from schools to local businesses , and video stores to the corner store .	人們用這個軟體來繪製所有東西 , 從道路到河流 , 從學校到當地企業 , 影片店到角落商店 。
nobel prize nominee hernando de soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land .	諾貝爾獎提名henandodes意識到 , 對大部分發展中國家經濟利益的關鍵是要處理大量未受影響的土地 。
for example , a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapitalized in india alone .	例如 , 僅僅在印度 , 一兆美金的房地產仍未被監禁 。
in the last year alone , thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information , and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable .	光在去年 , 就有數以千計的使用者在170個國家已經繪製了數百萬個資訊的地圖 , 創造出了一層不可思議的細節 。
and this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere .	這使得世界各地充滿熱情使用者的力量 。
let's look at some of the maps being created by users right now .	咱們來看看目前使用者所創造的一些地圖 。
so , as we speak , people are mapping the world in these 170 countries .	所以 , 如同我們所說 , 在170個國家 , 人們正在繪製這個世界 。
you can see bridget in africa who just mapped a road in senegal .	你可以看到在非洲的橋樑 , 在塞內加爾剛繪製了一條道路 。
and , closer to home , chalua , an n . g . road in bangalore .	靠近家鄉 , 夏盧亞 , 班加羅爾的公路 。
this is the result of computational geometry , gesture recognition , and machine learning .	這是計算幾何、手勢識別、機器學習的結果 。
this is a victory of thousands of users , in hundreds of cities , one user , one edit at a time .	這是數以千計的使用者的勝利 , 在數百個城市中 , 一個使用者 , 一個編輯 。
this is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet .	這是一個邀請給我們未開發的地球70%的全球70% 。
welcome to the new world .	歡迎來到新世界 。
in 2003 , the palestinian village of budrus mounted a 10monthlong nonviolent protest to stop a barrier being built across their olive groves . did you hear about it ? didn't think so . brazilian filmmaker julia bacha asks why we only pay attention to violence in the israelpalestine conflict and not to the nonviolent leaders who may one day bring peace .	在2003年 , 巴勒斯坦村落的布德魯斯登上了十個月的非暴力抗爭 , 來阻止他們橫跨他們的橄欖球 。 你們有聽過嗎 ? 布拉西尼亞的製片人茱莉亞.巴希問:為什麼我們只關注在以色列巴勒斯坦衝突中 , 而非暴力領袖有一天可能會帶來和平 。
arts , communication , compassion , entertainment , film , peace , violence , war	藝術、溝通、同情、娛樂、電影、和平、暴力、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、
julia bacha: pay attention to nonviolence	juliabacha:請注意非暴力事件 。
for the last 8 years , i have dedicated my life to documenting the work of israelis and palestinians who are trying to end the conflict using peaceful means .	過去八年 , 我致力於記錄以色列和巴勒斯坦人的作品 , 他們試圖用和平的手段來結束衝突 。
when i travel with my work across europe and the united states , one question always comes up: where is the palestinian gandhi ?	當我在歐洲和美國旅行時 , 有一個問題總是出現:巴勒斯坦甘地在哪裡 ?
why aren't palestinians using nonviolent resistance ?	為什麼巴勒斯坦人不用非暴力抗爭 ?
the challenge i face when i hear this question is that often i have just returned from the middle east where i spent my time filming dozens of palestinians who are using nonviolence to defend their lands and water resources from israeli soldiers and settlers .	當我聽到這個問題時 , 我面臨的挑戰是 , 我常常從中東回來 , 在那裡 , 我花了很多時間拍攝數十位巴勒斯坦人 , 他們用非暴力的方式來保護他們的土地和水資源 , 來自以色列士兵和移民者 。
these leaders are trying to forge a massive national nonviolent movement to end the occupation and build peace in the region .	這些領導人試圖去維護一個巨大的國家非暴力運動 , 來終止這個地區的職業 , 並建立和平 。
yet , most of you have probably never heard about them .	然而 , 你們大多數人可能從來沒有聽過他們 。
this divide between what's happening on the ground and perceptions abroad is one of the key reasons why we don't have yet a palestinian peaceful resistance movement that has been successful .	這種分歧在國外發生和感知之間的差異 , 是我們尚未有的巴勒斯坦和平抗爭運動的關鍵原因之一 。
so i'm here today to talk about the power of attention , the power of your attention , and the emergence and development of nonviolent movements in the west bank , gaza and elsewhere but today , my case study is going to be palestine .	所以我今天要來談談注意力的力量 , 關注的力量 , 以及在西岸、加薩和其他地方的非暴力運動的出現和發展 , 但今天 , 我的案例研究將成為巴勒斯坦 。
i believe that what's mostly missing for nonviolence to grow is not for palestinians to start adopting nonviolence , but for us to start paying attention to those who already are .	我相信 , 最缺乏非暴力的行為 , 不是要讓巴勒斯坦人開始採用非暴力行為 , 而是要我們開始注意那些已經有的人 。
allow me to illustrate this point by taking you to this village called budrus .	讓我來說明一下這個點 , 帶你到一個叫做布德鲁斯村的村子 。
about seven years ago , they faced extinction , because israel announced it would build a separation barrier , and part of this barrier would be built on top of the village .	大約七年前 , 他們面臨絕種 , 因為以色列宣布要建立一個獨立的障礙 , 而這個障礙的一部分會在村落上建成 。
they would lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded , so they would lose free access to the rest of the west bank .	他們會失去40%的土地 , 被包圍住 , 所以他們會失去西岸其他地方的取得權 。
through inspired local leadership , they launched a peaceful resistance campaign to stop that from happening .	透過當地的領導力 , 他們發起了和平的抗爭活動 , 阻止這一切發生 。
let me show you some brief clips , so you have a sense for what that actually looked like on the ground .	讓我給你們看一段短片 , 你對地面上看起來是什麼樣子 。
palestinian woman: we were told the wall would separate palestine from israel .	巴勒斯坦女人:我們被告知牆會和以色列隔離巴勒斯坦 。
here in budrus , we realized the wall would steal our land .	在布德魯斯 , 我們發現牆會偷我們的土地 。
israeli man: the fence has , in fact , created a solution to terror .	以色列男人:圍籬事實上 , 造成了恐怖的解決方案 。
man: today you're invited to a peaceful march .	男子:今天你被邀請到一個和平的遊行 。
you are joined by dozens of your israeli brothers and sisters .	你被幾十位以色列兄弟和姊妹團結 。
israeli activist: nothing scares the army more than nonviolent opposition .	以色列的行動主義者:軍隊比非暴力反對更害怕 。
woman: we saw the men trying to push the soldiers , but none of them could do that .	女子:我們看到男人試圖推進士兵 , 但沒有人能做到 。
but i think the girls could do it .	但我認為女孩們可以做到 。
fatah party member: we must empty our minds of traditional thinking .	法塔赫派對成員:我們必須忽視傳統思維的思想 。
hamas party member: we were in complete harmony , and we wanted to spread it to all of palestine .	哈馬斯派對成員:我們完全和諧 , 我們想要把它傳播給所有巴勒斯坦 。
chanting: one united nation .	查理:一個聯合國 。
fatah , hamas and the popular front !	法塔 , 哈馬斯和大眾的前線 !
news anchor: the clashes over the fence continue .	新聞主持人:圍籬的關節持續下去 。
reporter: israeli border police were sent to disperse the crowd .	記者:以色列邊界警察被派去分散群眾 。
they were allowed to use any force necessary .	他們被允許使用任何必要的力量 。
man: these are live bullets .	男子:這些是現場的子彈 。
it's like fallujah . shooting everywhere .	這就好像摔角了 。 射擊到處都是 。
israeli activist: i was sure we were all going to die .	以色列的行動主義者:我相信我們都會死 。
but there were others around me who weren't even cowering .	但在我身邊有一些人 , 甚至還沒做牛仔 。
israeli soldier: a nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear] .	以色列的士兵:非暴力抗爭不會阻止他們 。
protester: this is a peaceful march .	普斯特:這是一個和平的遊行 。
there is no need to use violence .	不需要使用暴力 。
chanting: we can do it ! we can do it !	查爾斯:我們能做到 ! 我們能做到 !
julia bacha: when i first heard about the story of budrus , i was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago , in 2003 .	朱莉亞.巴哈:當我第一次聽到布德魯斯的故事時 , 我感到驚訝 , 國際媒體沒有報導發生在七年前的非凡事件 。
what was even more surprising was the fact that budrus was successful .	更令人驚訝的是布德魯斯成功的事實 。
the residents , after 10 months of peaceful resistance , convinced the israeli government to move the route of the barrier off their lands and to the green line , which is the internationally recognized boundary between israel and the palestinian territories .	居民 , 十個月的和平抗爭之後 , 說服了以色列政府將他們的土地的路線移到綠線 , 也就是國際認可了以色列和巴勒斯坦領土之間的界線 。
the resistance in budrus has since spread to villages across the west bank and to palestinian neighborhoods in jerusalem .	布德魯斯的抗爭從此傳播到西岸的村落以及耶路撒冷的巴勒斯坦社區 。
yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories .	但媒體仍然沉默在這些故事上 。
this silence carries profound consequences for the likelihood that nonviolence can grow , or even survive , in palestine .	這種沉默帶著深刻的後果 , 導致非暴力的可能性成長 , 甚至在巴勒斯坦生存 。
violent resistance and nonviolent resistance share one very important thing in common ; they are both a form of theater seeking an audience to their cause .	暴力抗爭和非暴力抗爭有一項非常重要的共通點 ; 它們都是一種形式的劇場 , 尋求觀眾的成因 。
if violent actors are the only ones constantly getting frontpage covers and attracting international attention to the palestinian issue , it becomes very hard for nonviolent leaders to make the case to their communities that civil disobedience is a viable option in addressing their plight .	如果暴力演員是唯一的封面 , 並且吸引國際的關注在巴勒斯坦議題上 , 對非暴力的領導者來說 , 要讓公民不服從是可行的選項 。
the power of attention is probably going to come as no surprise to the parents in the room .	注意力的力量可能對在座的父母而言是毫無意外的 。
the surest way to make your child throw increasingly louder tantrums is by giving him attention the first time he throws a fit .	要讓你的孩子更加明顯地發出聲響的確是讓他注意到他第一次投入一個音符 。
the tantrum will become what childhood psychologists call a functional behavior , since the child has learned that he can get parental attention out of it .	蟻群會變成童年心理學家所謂的功能性行為 , 因為孩子們已經學會了他能從中獲得父母的注意力 。
parents can incentivize or disincentivize behavior simply by giving or withdrawing attention to their children .	父母可以透過給予孩童的注意力來鼓勵或忽視行為 。
but that's true for adults too .	但對成年人也是如此 。
in fact , the behavior of entire communities and countries can be influenced , depending on where the international community chooses to focus its attention .	事實上 , 整個社區和國家的行為會受到影響 , 根據國際社會選擇集中注意力的位置 。
i believe that at the core of ending the conflict in the middle east and bringing peace is for us to transform nonviolence into a functional behavior by giving a lot more attention to the nonviolent leaders on the ground today .	我相信 , 終結中東衝突的核心 , 帶來和平 , 是我們要把非暴力的非暴力行為轉變成功能性行為 , 讓更多關注在現今的非暴力領袖 。
in the course of taking my film to villages in the west bank , in gaza and in east jerusalem , i have seen the impact that even one documentary film can have in influencing the transformation .	在加薩和東耶路撒冷的村子裡 , 我已經看過一部紀錄片能影響到轉變的影響 。
in a village called wallajeh , which sits very close to jerusalem , the community was facing a very similar plight to budrus .	在一個叫華拉傑的村落 , 離耶路撒冷很近 , 社區正面臨著一個與布德魯斯非常相似的困境 。
they were going to be surrounded , lose a lot of their lands and not have freedom of access , either to the west bank or jerusalem .	他們會被包圍 , 失去很多土地 , 沒有取得自由 , 不論是西岸或耶路撒冷 。
they had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention .	兩年來 , 他們一直在使用非暴力 , 但自從沒有人在注意力時 , 一直都很不滿意 。
so we organized a screening .	所以我們組織了一場屏幕 。
a week later , they held the most wellattended and disciplined demonstration to date .	一個禮拜後 , 他們舉辦了最好且最專業的示範 。
the organizers say that the villagers , upon seeing the story of budrus documented in a film , felt that there were indeed people following what they were doing , that people cared .	組織者說 , 村民們 , 看到布德魯斯的故事在電影中被記錄下來 , 覺得有一些人在追蹤他們在做什麼 , 人們在關心 。
so they kept on going .	所以他們繼續前進 。
on the israeli side , there is a new peace movement called solidariot , which means solidarity in hebrew .	在以色列 , 有一個新的和平運動 , 叫做索麗達里特 , 意思是希伯來語的團結 。
the leaders of this movement have been using budrus as one of their primary recruiting tools .	這項運動的領導人 , 已經把布德魯斯當作他們主要的招募工具之一 。
they report that israelis who had never been active before , upon seeing the film , understand the power of nonviolence and start joining their activities .	他們報告以色列從來沒有活躍過 , 看過電影 , 了解非暴力的力量 , 並開始加入他們的活動 。
the examples of wallajeh and the solidariot movement show that even a smallbudget independent film can play a role in transforming nonviolence into a functional behavior .	瓦拉賈和索利德運動的例子顯示 , 即使是一部小型的獨立電影也能扮演一個角色 , 將非暴力變成功能性行為 。
now imagine the power that big media players could have if they started covering the weekly nonviolent demonstrations happening in villages like bil'in , ni'lin , wallajeh , in jerusalem neighborhoods like sheikh jarrah and silwan the nonviolent leaders would become more visible , valued and effective in their work .	想像一下 , 大型媒體播放者的力量 , 如果他們開始報導每週的非暴力行為 , 發生在村落裡 , 像是bil'in、nin、rajeh、jeh、耶路撒冷的社區 , 像sikhjarrah和silwan這樣的非暴力領導人 , 會變得更明顯、更有價值、更有效率 。
i believe that the most important thing is to understand that if we don't pay attention to these efforts , they are invisible , and it's as if they never happened .	我相信最重要的是要了解如果我們不注意這些努力 , 它們是隱形的 , 就好像它們從來沒有發生過一樣 。
but i have seen first hand that if we do , they will multiply .	但是如果我們這樣做 , 他們就會倍增 。
if they multiply , their influence will grow in the overall israelipalestinian conflict .	如果他們倍增 , 他們的影響會在以色列巴勒斯坦的衝突中成長 。
and theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation .	他們的影響力終於可以解開這個情況 。
these leaders have proven that nonviolence works in places like budrus .	這些領導人證明 , 非暴力在像布德魯斯這樣的地方有用 。
let's give them attention so they can prove it works everywhere .	讓我們給他們注意 , 這樣他們就能證明它無所不在 。
simon sinek has a simple but powerful model for inspirational leadership all starting with a golden circle and the question " why ? " his examples include apple , martin luther king , and the wright brothers . . .	西蒙•海克有一個簡單但有力的模型 , 能鼓舞人心的領導力 , 始於黃金圓圈 , 問題是 「 為什麼 ? 」 他的例子包括蘋果、馬丁路德金 , 以及萊特兄弟......
bullseye , business , entrepreneur , leadership , sales , selling , success	bullsee、商業、企業家、領導力、銷售、販售、成功、成功、成功、企業家、領導力、銷售、銷售、販售、成功、成功、成功、企業家、企業家、領導力、
simon sinek: how great leaders inspire action	西蒙.海克:偉大的領袖鼓舞了行動 。
how do you explain when things don't go as we assume ?	你要如何解釋當事情不如我們所想時 ?
or better , how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions ?	或者 , 更好 , 如何解釋 , 當他人能夠做到似乎違背所有假設時 , 你要如何解釋 ?
for example: why is apple so innovative ?	例如:為什麼蘋果如此創新 ?
year after year , after year , after year , they're more innovative than all their competition .	年復一年 , 年復一年 , 他們比他們所有的競爭都更有創意 。
and yet , they're just a computer company .	然而 , 他們只是一家電腦公司 。
they're just like everyone else .	他們和其他人一樣 。
they have the same access to the same talent , the same agencies , the same consultants , the same media .	他們擁有相同的人才 , 相同的機構 , 相同的顧問 , 相同的媒體 。
then why is it that they seem to have something different ?	為何他們看起來有所不同 ?
why is it that martin luther king led the civil rights movement ?	為什麼馬丁•路德•金恩帶領民權運動 ?
he wasn't the only man who suffered in a precivil rights america , and he certainly wasn't the only great orator of the day .	他不是唯一一個在美國受苦的人 , 他肯定不是當代最偉大的演說家 。
and why is it that the wright brothers were able to figure out controlled , powered man flight when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified , better funded . . .	為何萊特兄弟能夠找出控制權力的人飛行 , 尤其是其他更有資格、更好的資金的團隊 。
and they didn't achieve powered man flight , and the wright brothers beat them to it .	他們沒有達到人類飛行的動力 , 萊特兄弟打敗他們 。
there's something else at play here .	這裡還有別的東西 。
about three and a half years ago i made a discovery .	大約三年半前 , 我發現了一項發現 。
and this discovery profoundly changed my view on how i thought the world worked , and it even profoundly changed the way in which i operate in it .	這個發現深深地改變了我的觀點我認為這個世界是如何運作的 , 甚至深深地改變了我在其中運作的方式 。
as it turns out , there's a pattern .	結果發現 , 有一個模式 。
as it turns out , all the great and inspiring leaders and organizations in the world whether it's apple or martin luther king or the wright brothers they all think , act and communicate the exact same way .	結果發現 , 世界上所有偉大、鼓舞人心的領導人和組織 , 無論是蘋果、馬丁路德金恩 , 或萊特兄弟 , 他們都認為 , 行為和溝通方式都一樣 。
and it's the complete opposite to everyone else .	和其他人完全相反 。
all i did was codify it , and it's probably the world's simplest idea .	我所做的只是編寫它 , 可能是世界上最簡單的點子 。
i call it the golden circle .	我稱之為黃金圓圈 。
why ? how ? what ?	為什麼 ? 什麼 ?
this little idea explains why some organizations and some leaders are able to inspire where others aren't .	這個小小的點子解釋了為什麼有些組織和一些領導人能夠鼓舞其他人不在哪裡 。
let me define the terms really quickly .	讓我很快地定義這個詞 。
every single person , every single organization on the planet knows what they do , 100 percent .	每個人 , 地球上的每一個組織都知道他們在做什麼 , 百分之百 。
some know how they do it , whether you call it your differentiated value proposition or your proprietary process or your usp .	有些人知道他們是如何做到的 , 不論你稱它為你不同的價值觀 , 或你的財產流程 , 或你的usp 。
but very , very few people or organizations know why they do what they do .	但很少人或組織知道他們怎麼做 。
and by " why " i don't mean " to make a profit . "	意思是 「 為什麼 」 不是 「 創造利潤 」 。
that's a result . it's always a result .	這是結果 。 結果總是結果 。
by " why , " i mean: what's your purpose ?	「 為什麼 」 我的意思是:你的目的是什麼 ?
what's your cause ? what's your belief ?	你的成因是什麼 ? 你的信念是什麼 ?
why does your organization exist ?	你的組織為什麼存在 ?
why do you get out of bed in the morning ?	為什麼你早上出床 ?
and why should anyone care ?	為何有人要在乎 ?
well , as a result , the way we think , the way we act , the way we communicate is from the outside in .	結果就是 , 我們思考的方式 , 我們溝通的方式是來自外界的 。
it's obvious . we go from the clearest thing to the fuzziest thing .	很明顯的 , 我們從最明顯的事物轉變成最模糊的事物 。
but the inspired leaders and the inspired organizations regardless of their size , regardless of their industry all think , act and communicate from the inside out .	但鼓舞人心的領導人和激勵人心的組織 , 不管他們的大小 , 不管他們的產業都認為 , 行為和溝通都來自內部 。
let me give you an example .	讓我舉個例子 。
i use apple because they're easy to understand and everybody gets it .	我用蘋果是因為他們很容易理解 , 每個人都懂 。
if apple were like everyone else , a marketing message from them might sound like this: " we make great computers .	如果蘋果和其他人一樣 , 他們的行銷訊息可能聽起來像這樣: 「 我們會製造出很棒的電腦 。
they're beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	它們設計得很漂亮 , 很簡單 , 很容易使用 , 且很友善 。
want to buy one ? " " meh . "	想要買一台嗎 ? 」
and that's how most of us communicate .	那就是我們大多數人溝通的方式 。
that's how most marketing is done , that's how most sales is done and that's how most of us communicate interpersonally .	這就是大部分的行銷方式 , 大部分的銷售都是如此 , 那就是我們大多數人之間交流的方式 。
we say what we do , we say how we're different or how we're better and we expect some sort of a behavior , a purchase , a vote , something like that .	我們會說我們所做的事 , 我們會說我們有多不同 , 或如何做得更好 , 我們期待某種行為、購買、投票、類似的行為 。
here's our new law firm: we have the best lawyers with the biggest clients , we always perform for our clients who do business with us .	這是我們的新法律公司:我們有最好的律師和最大客戶 , 我們總是為和我們做生意的客戶表演 。
here's our new car: it gets great gas mileage , it has leather seats , buy our car .	這是我們的新車:它有很大的氣體 , 它有皮革座位 , 買我們的車 。
here's how apple actually communicates .	蘋果是如何溝通的 。
" everything we do , we believe in challenging the status quo .	「 我們所做的每件事 , 我們相信挑戰現狀 。
we believe in thinking differently .	我們相信不同的思考方式 。
the way we challenge the status quo is by making our products beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	我們挑戰現狀的方式 , 是讓我們的產品精美地設計 , 簡單地使用和使用者 。
we just happen to make great computers .	我們剛好製造了很棒的電腦 。
want to buy one ? "	想要買一台嗎 ? 」
totally different right ? you're ready to buy a computer from me .	完全不一樣嗎 ? 你準備好要跟我買一台電腦 。
all i did was reverse the order of the information .	我所做的只是反轉資訊的順序 。
what it proves to us is that people don't buy what you do ; people buy why you do it .	它向我們證明了人們不買你做什麼 ; 人們買你為什麼去做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 。
this explains why every single person in this room is perfectly comfortable buying a computer from apple .	這解釋了為什麼在座的每一個人都很自在買蘋果電腦 。
but we're also perfectly comfortable buying an mp3 player from apple , or a phone from apple , or a dvr from apple .	但我們也非常自在地買蘋果電腦的mp3播放器 , 或蘋果電腦的手機 , 或蘋果電腦的dvr 。
but , as i said before , apple's just a computer company .	但 , 就像我之前說的 , 蘋果只是一家電腦公司 。
there's nothing that distinguishes them structurally from any of their competitors .	沒有任何東西可以從結構中分辨它們 , 不用任何競爭者 。
their competitors are all equally qualified to make all of these products .	他們的競爭者都同樣資格做出這些產品 。
in fact , they tried .	事實上 , 他們試了 。
a few years ago , gateway came out with flat screen tvs .	幾年前 , 高速公路出櫃了平面的電視機 。
they're eminently qualified to make flat screen tvs .	他們很有資格製作平面的電視 。
they've been making flat screen monitors for years .	數年來 , 他們一直在製作平面的螢幕螢幕 。
dell came out with mp3 players and pdas , and they make great quality products , and they can make perfectly welldesigned products and nobody bought one .	德魯爾走出了mp3播放器和pda , 他們製作了很棒的品質產品 , 他們可以做出完美的設計產品 , 沒有人買了 。
in fact , talking about it now , we can't even imagine buying an mp3 player from dell .	事實上 , 談到現在 , 我們甚至無法想像從德國購買mp3播放器 。
why would you buy an mp3 player from a computer company ?	你為什麼要從一家電腦公司買一台mp3播放器 ?
but we do it every day .	但我們每天都會這樣做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 。
the goal is not to do business with everybody who needs what you have .	目標不是要和需要你所需要的人做生意 。
the goal is to do business with people who believe what you believe .	目標是和那些相信你所相信的人做生意 。
here's the best part: none of what i'm telling you is my opinion .	最棒的部分是:我所說的 , 沒有一個是我的意見 。
it's all grounded in the tenets of biology .	一切都在生物的10%之內 。
not psychology , biology .	不是心理學 , 生物學 。
if you look at a crosssection of the human brain , looking from the top down , what you see is the human brain is actually broken into three major components that correlate perfectly with the golden circle .	如果你看一下人類大腦的交叉位置 , 從上方看 , 你看到的是人類的大腦實際上被分解成三個主要元件 , 與黃金圈完全相關 。
our newest brain , our homo sapien brain , our neocortex , corresponds with the " what " level .	我們最新的大腦 , 人類的大腦 , 我們的新皮層 , 與 「 等級 」 相對應 。
the neocortex is responsible for all of our rational and analytical thought and language .	新皮質負責我們所有的理性、分析性思維和語言 。
the middle two sections make up our limbic brains , and our limbic brains are responsible for all of our feelings , like trust and loyalty .	中間兩個部分組成了我們的腦 , 我們的邊緣大腦負責我們所有的感覺 , 像是信任和忠誠 。
it's also responsible for all human behavior , all decisionmaking , and it has no capacity for language .	它也負責所有人類的行為 , 所有的決策 , 沒有語言的能力 。
in other words , when we communicate from the outside in , yes , people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features and benefits and facts and figures .	換句話說 , 當我們從外面溝通時 , 是的 , 人們可以了解很多複雜的資訊 , 比如特徵、利益、事實和數字 。
it just doesn't drive behavior .	它不會驅動行為 。
when we can communicate from the inside out , we're talking directly to the part of the brain that controls behavior , and then we allow people to rationalize it with the tangible things we say and do .	當我們能從內部向外溝通時 , 我們直接和控制行為的部分溝通 , 接著 , 我們就允許人們將之合理化為我們所說和做的事 。
this is where gut decisions come from .	這是腸道決策的來源 。
you know , sometimes you can give somebody all the facts and figures , and they say , " i know what all the facts and details say , but it just doesn't feel right . "	有時候你會給某人所有的事實和數字 , 他們會說: 「 我知道所有事實和細節會說什麼 , 但感覺不對 。 」
why would we use that verb , it doesn't " feel " right ?	為什麼我們要用那動詞 , 它不會 「 感覺 」 呢 ?
because the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking doesn't control language .	因為大腦控制決策的部分無法控制語言 。
and the best we can muster up is , " i don't know . it just doesn't feel right . "	我們最好的辦法是: 「 我不知道 , 感覺不對 。 」
or sometimes you say you're leading with your heart , or you're leading with your soul .	或者有時候你會說你在帶著你的心 , 或者你帶著你的靈魂 。
well , i hate to break it to you , those aren't other body parts controlling your behavior .	嗯 , 我討厭打破它 , 這些不是其他身體部位控制你的行為 。
it's all happening here in your limbic brain , the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking and not language .	一切都發生在你的邊緣大腦中 , 控制決策的部分 , 而非語言 。
but if you don't know why you do what you do , and people respond to why you do what you do , then how will you ever get people to vote for you , or buy something from you , or , more importantly , be loyal and want to be a part of what it is that you do .	但如果你不知道你為什麼做你所做的事 , 人們會回應你為什麼做你所做的事 , 那麼你要如何讓人們投票給你 , 或買東西 , 更重要的是 , 做忠誠 , 想要成為你所做的一部分 。
again , the goal is not just to sell to people who need what you have ; the goal is to sell to people who believe what you believe .	同樣的 , 目標不只是要賣給需要你的人 ; 目標是要賣給那些相信你所相信的人 。
the goal is not just to hire people who need a job ; it's to hire people who believe what you believe .	目標不只是要僱用需要工作的人 ; 而是要僱用相信你所相信的人 。
i always say that , you know , if you hire people just because they can do a job , they'll work for your money , but if you hire people who believe what you believe , they'll work for you with blood and sweat and tears .	我總是這樣說 , 如果你雇用人 , 只因為他們可以做事 , 他們會為你的錢工作 , 但如果你雇用相信你所相信的人 , 他們會為你帶來血汗和淚水 。
and nowhere else is there a better example of this than with the wright brothers .	其他地方都沒有比萊特兄弟更好的例子 。
most people don't know about samuel pierpont langley .	大部分的人不知道samuelpierpontlangley 。
and back in the early 20th century , the pursuit of powered man flight was like the dot com of the day .	回到二十世紀初 , 追求電力飛行的追求 , 就像是白天的點com 。
everybody was trying it .	每個人都在試 。
and samuel pierpont langley had , what we assume , to be the recipe for success .	而samuelpierpontlangley有 , 我們假設是成功的秘訣 。
i mean , even now , you ask people , " why did your product or why did your company fail ? "	我的意思是 , 即使現在 , 你問別人: 「 為什麼你的產品或為什麼你的公司會失敗 ? 」
and people always give you the same permutation of the same three things: undercapitalized , the wrong people , bad market conditions .	人們總是會給你相同的三樣東西:不適合的人、壞人、壞市場條件 。
it's always the same three things , so let's explore that .	總是相同的三件事 , 讓我們來探討一下 。
samuel pierpont langley was given 50 , 000 dollars by the war department to figure out this flying machine .	samuelpierpontlangley被戰爭部門給五萬美金 , 想出這台飛行機器 。
money was no problem .	金錢沒有問題 。
he held a seat at harvard and worked at the smithsonian and was extremely wellconnected ; he knew all the big minds of the day .	他在哈佛舉辦了一座位子 , 在史密森尼人工作 , 當時是非常好的連結 ; 他知道當時的所有大型思維 。
he hired the best minds money could find and the market conditions were fantastic .	他僱用最好的思想錢 , 能找到市場條件是很棒的 。
the new york times followed him around everywhere , and everyone was rooting for langley .	《紐約時報》追蹤他到處跑 , 每個人都在為langley開車 。
then how come we've never heard of samuel pierpont langley ?	那麼我們怎麼可能從來沒有聽過samuelpierpontlangley ?
a few hundred miles away in dayton ohio , orville and wilbur wright , they had none of what we consider to be the recipe for success .	離俄亥俄州的幾百英哩遠 , 奧維爾和威爾布萊特 , 他們沒有我們認為的成功的秘訣 。
they had no money ; they paid for their dream with the proceeds from their bicycle shop ; not a single person on the wright brothers' team had a college education , not even orville or wilbur ; and the new york times followed them around nowhere .	他們沒有錢 , 他們付了他們的夢想 , 用自行車購物的代價 ; 沒有一個人在萊特兄弟的團隊中受過大學教育 , 甚至不是鄉村或威爾布爾 ; 紐約時報追蹤他們到處都是 。
the difference was , orville and wilbur were driven by a cause , by a purpose , by a belief .	差別在於 , 奧維爾和威爾布爾被一個目標所驅使 , 一個信念驅使 。
they believed that if they could figure out this flying machine , it'll change the course of the world .	他們相信如果他們能想出這台飛行機器 , 會改變世界的軌道 。
samuel pierpont langley was different .	samuelpierpontlangley是不同的 。
he wanted to be rich , and he wanted to be famous .	他想成為富人 , 他想成為有名人物 。
he was in pursuit of the result .	他在追求結果 。
he was in pursuit of the riches .	他在追求富人 。
and lo and behold , look what happened .	看 , 看看發生了什麼事 。
the people who believed in the wright brothers' dream worked with them with blood and sweat and tears .	相信萊特兄弟的夢想 , 和他們一起工作 , 用血汗和淚水 。
the others just worked for the paycheck .	其他人則是為了支付錢而工作 。
and they tell stories of how every time the wright brothers went out , they would have to take five sets of parts , because that's how many times they would crash before they came in for supper .	他們會說故事 , 每當萊特兄弟出門時 , 他們就得要採取五組零件 , 因為那是他們在供應商前撞了多少次 。
and , eventually , on december 17th , 1903 , the wright brothers took flight , and no one was there to even experience it .	最後 , 在1903年12月17日 , 萊特兄弟飛行 , 甚至沒有人在那兒體驗它 。
we found out about it a few days later .	幾天後 , 我們發現了它 。
and further proof that langley was motivated by the wrong thing: the day the wright brothers took flight , he quit .	更進一步的證據證明 , 蕾莉的動機是錯誤的:萊特兄弟飛行的那天 , 他辭掉了 。
he could have said , " that's an amazing discovery , guys , and i will improve upon your technology , " but he didn't .	他可能會說: 「 這是很棒的發現 , 各位 , 我會改善你們的科技 。 」 但他並沒有 。
he wasn't first , he didn't get rich , he didn't get famous so he quit .	他不是第一個 , 他沒有得到富人 , 他沒有得到有名的 , 所以他放棄了 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 。
and if you talk about what you believe , you will attract those who believe what you believe .	如果你談到你所相信的 , 你會吸引那些相信你所相信的人 。
but why is it important to attract those who believe what you believe ?	但為什麼吸引那些相信你所相信的人是很重要的 ?
something called the law of diffusion of innovation , and if you don't know the law , you definitely know the terminology .	一個叫做創新的擴散法則 , 如果你不知道法律 , 你絕對知道它的術語 。
the first two and a half percent of our population are our innovators .	前2%的人口是我們的創新者 。
the next 13 and a half percent of our population are our early adopters .	接下來的13.5%的人口是我們早期的採用者 。
the next 34 percent are your early majority , your late majority and your laggards .	接下來的34%是你早期的大多數人 , 你的下半數和你的懶惰 。
the only reason these people buy touch tone phones is because you can't buy rotary phones anymore .	這些人只能買到接觸電話的唯一理由 , 是因為你不能再買零售手機了 。
we all sit at various places at various times on this scale , but what the law of diffusion of innovation tells us is that if you want massmarket success or massmarket acceptance of an idea , you cannot have it until you achieve this tipping point between 15 and 18 percent market penetration , and then the system tips .	我們都坐在這個規模不同的地方 , 但創新的散播法則告訴我們 , 如果你想要大眾市場成功或大眾市場接受一個想法 , 你就不能直到你達成這個臨界點 , 直到你達到15%到18%的市場滲透率 , 然後系統就開始了 。
and i love asking businesses , " what's your conversion on new business ? "	我喜歡問企業: 「 你對新生意的轉變是什麼 ? 」
and they love to tell you , " oh , it's about 10 percent , " proudly .	他們喜歡跟你說: 「 喔 , 這大概是百分之十 , 」 很驕傲 。
well , you can trip over 10 percent of the customers .	嗯 , 你可以嘗試超過百分之十的客戶 。
we all have about 10 percent who just " get it . "	我們都有大約10%的人 「 懂 」 。
that's how we describe them , right ?	這就是我們如何描述它們 , 對吧 ?
that's like that gut feeling , " oh , they just get it . "	那就像是直覺 , 感覺: 「 喔 , 他們就懂了 。 」
the problem is: how do you find the ones that get it before you're doing business with them versus the ones who don't get it ?	問題是:如何在你和他們做生意之前 , 找到他們 , 而不是那些不懂的人 ?
so it's this here , this little gap that you have to close , as jeffrey moore calls it , " crossing the chasm " because , you see , the early majority will not try something until someone else has tried it first .	這裡是這個 , 你必須關閉的小缺口 , 就像傑佛里摩爾所說的 , 「 跨越教室 」 , 因為 , 你看 , 早期大多數人不會嘗試 , 直到其他人先試過它 。
and these guys , the innovators and the early adopters , they're comfortable making those gut decisions .	這些人 , 創新者和早期的採用者 , 他們很舒適地做出這些直覺決策 。
they're more comfortable making those intuitive decisions that are driven by what they believe about the world and not just what product is available .	他們更自在地做出那些直覺的決定 , 由他們對世界的信念所驅使 , 而不僅僅是產品可以取得的 。
these are the people who stood in line for six hours to buy an iphone when they first came out , when you could have just walked into the store the next week and bought one off the shelf .	這些人排隊排隊六小時 , 當他們第一次出門時 , 買iphone , 下週你只要走進商店 , 買下架 。
these are the people who spent 40 , 000 dollars on flat screen tvs when they first came out , even though the technology was substandard .	這些人花了四萬美金在平面的螢幕上 , 第一次出櫃 , 即便這項技術是替代品 。
and , by the way , they didn't do it because the technology was so great ; they did it for themselves .	順帶一提 , 他們並沒有這麼做 , 因為這項技術太棒了 , 他們為自己做這件事 。
it's because they wanted to be first .	因為他們想要成為第一 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it and what you do simply proves what you believe .	人們不買你所做的事 ; 他們買你為什麼做的事 , 以及你所做的 , 證明了你所相信的事 。
in fact , people will do the things that prove what they believe .	事實上 , 人們會做他們所相信的事 。
the reason that person bought the iphone in the first six hours , stood in line for six hours , was because of what they believed about the world , and how they wanted everybody to see them: they were first .	一個人在前六個小時買iphone的理由 , 排長六個小時 , 是因為他們對這個世界的信念 , 以及他們想要每個人看他們的方式:他們是第一個 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 。
so let me give you a famous example , a famous failure and a famous success of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我舉個有名的例子 , 一個有名的失敗和一個有名的成功 , 來說明創新的散播法則 。
first , the famous failure .	首先 , 著名的失敗 。
it's a commercial example .	這是個商業的例子 。
as we said before , a second ago , the recipe for success is money and the right people and the right market conditions , right ? you should have success then .	正如我們先前所說的 , 成功的秘訣是金錢、對的人、對的市場條件 , 對嗎 ? 你應該成功了 。
from the time tivo came out about eight or nine years ago to this current day , they are the single highestquality product on the market , hands down , there is no dispute .	從八、九年前到今日 , 到目前為止 , 它們是市場上最高品質的產品 , 手上也沒有爭議 。
they were extremely wellfunded .	他們非常受歡迎 。
market conditions were fantastic .	市場狀況很棒 。
i mean , we use tivo as verb .	我的意思是 , 我們把tivo當作動詞 。
i tivo stuff on my piece of junk time warner dvr all the time .	我隨時都在我的垃圾時間華納dvr上 。
but tivo's a commercial failure .	但tivo是一個商業上的失敗 。
they've never made money .	他們從來沒有賺到錢 。
and when they went ipo , their stock was at about 30 or 40 dollars and then plummeted , and it's never traded above 10 .	當他們去ipo時 , 他們的股票大約是三、四十元 , 然後爆炸了 , 從來沒有在10歲以上交易 。
in fact , i don't think it's even traded above six , except for a couple of little spikes .	事實上 , 我不認為它在六號以上的交易 , 除了幾個小尖峰之外 。
because you see , when tivo launched their product they told us all what they had .	因為你看 , 當tivo推出他們的產品時 , 他們告訴我們他們所擁有的一切 。
they said , " we have a product that pauses live tv , skips commercials , rewinds live tv and memorizes your viewing habits without you even asking . "	他們說: 「 我們有一個會暫停現場電視的產品 , 滑雪廣告 , 重塑現場電視 , 記住你的觀看習慣 , 甚至你會問 。 」
and the cynical majority said , " we don't believe you .	憤世嫉俗的多數人說: 「 我們不相信你 。
we don't need it . we don't like it .	我們不需要它 , 我們不喜歡它 。
you're scaring us . "	你害怕我們 。 」
what if they had said , " if you're the kind of person who likes to have total control over every aspect of your life , boy , do we have a product for you .	如果他們說: 「 若你是那種想要完全掌控你人生的各個面向的人 , 男孩 , 我們有產品給你 。
it pauses live tv , skips commercials , memorizes your viewing habits , etc . , etc . "	它會暫停電視 , 跳過廣告 , 記住你的觀看習慣 , 等等 。 」
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it , and what you do simply serves as the proof of what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼這麼做 , 而你所做的就是證明你所相信的事 。
now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我給你們一個成功的例子 , 說明創新的擴散法則 。
in the summer of 1963 , 250 , 000 people showed up on the mall in washington to hear dr . king speak .	在1963年夏天 , 有二十五萬人出現在華盛頓的購物中心 , 聽到金恩博士演說 。
they sent out no invitations , and there was no website to check the date .	他們沒有發送任何邀請 , 也沒有網站來檢查約會 。
how do you do that ?	要怎麼做呢 ?
well , dr . king wasn't the only man in america who was a great orator .	金恩博士不是美國唯一一個偉大的演說家 。
he wasn't the only man in america who suffered in a precivil rights america .	他不是美國唯一一個被處於普通的美國人 。
in fact , some of his ideas were bad .	事實上 , 他的一些想法很糟 。
but he had a gift .	但他有一個禮物 。
he didn't go around telling people what needed to change in america .	他沒有到處告訴人們在美國需要什麼改變 。
he went around and told people what he believed .	他四處走 , 告訴大家他所相信的 。
" i believe , i believe , i believe , " he told people .	「 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 , 「 他告訴人們 。
and people who believed what he believed took his cause , and they made it their own , and they told people .	相信他所造成的成因 , 並且他們自己做出來 , 告訴人們 。
and some of those people created structures to get the word out to even more people .	其中一些人創造了結構 , 讓這個詞傳遞給更多人 。
and lo and behold , 250 , 000 people showed up on the right day at the right time to hear him speak .	你看 , 25 , 000人在適當的日子 , 聽到他說話 。
how many of them showed up for him ?	有多少人為他出席 ?
they showed up for themselves .	他們為了自己而出 。
it's what they believed about america that got them to travel in a bus for eight hours to stand in the sun in washington in the middle of august .	他們相信美國能讓他們在公車上旅行八小時 , 讓他們站在華盛頓 , 站在八月中央 。
it's what they believed , and it wasn't about black versus white: 25 percent of the audience was white .	這是他們所相信的 , 重點不是黑人和白人:25%的觀眾是白人 。
dr . king believed that there are two types of laws in this world: those that are made by a higher authority and those that are made by man .	金恩博士相信世界上有兩種法律:那些由高權威制定的法律 , 而這些法律是由男性組成的 。
and not until all the laws that are made by man are consistent with the laws that are made by the higher authority will we live in a just world .	直到人類所制定的所有法則都與較高權威制定的法律一致 , 我們就能生活在一個公平的世界 。
it just so happened that the civil rights movement was the perfect thing to help him bring his cause to life .	剛好是公民權運動是幫助他終身的完美 。
we followed , not for him , but for ourselves .	我們追隨了 , 不是為了他 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and , by the way , he gave the " i have a dream " speech , not the " i have a plan " speech .	順帶一提 , 他給了 「 我有一個夢想 」 演講 , 而不是 「 我有一個計劃 」 演講 。
listen to politicians now , with their comprehensive 12point plans .	現在 , 聽政治人物 , 用他們全面的12點的植物聽著 。
they're not inspiring anybody .	他們沒有鼓舞任何人 。
because there are leaders and there are those who lead .	因為有領導者 , 也有領導者 。
leaders hold a position of power or authority , but those who lead inspire us .	領導者擁有權力或權威的位置 , 但領導人卻鼓舞了我們 。
whether they're individuals or organizations , we follow those who lead , not because we have to , but because we want to .	不論是個人或組織 , 我們追隨領導的人 , 不是因為我們必須 , 而是我們想要 。
we follow those who lead , not for them , but for ourselves .	我們遵循那些領導者 , 不是為了他們 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and it's those who start with " why " that have the ability to inspire those around them or find others who inspire them .	正是那些從 「 為什麼 」 開始的人 , 能夠鼓舞他們身邊的人 , 或找到那些激勵他們的人 。
how do you remember where you parked your car ? how do you know if you're moving in the right direction ? neuroscientist neil burgess studies the neural mechanisms that map the space around us , and how they link to memory and imagination .	你如何記得你在哪兒停車 ? 你如何知道你是否在正確的方向移動 ? 神經科學家neilburges研究我們周圍的神經機制 , 以及它們如何連結記憶和想像力 。
brain , cognitive science , exploration , neuroscience , science	大腦、認知科學、探索、神經科學、科學、科學、科學 。
neil burgess: how your brain tells you where you are	neilburgeges:你的大腦如何告訴你你的位置在哪裡 。
when we park in a big parking lot , how do we remember where we parked our car ?	當我們在一個大停車場停車場時 , 我們如何記得停車位在哪裡 ?
here's the problem facing homer .	這是面對荷馬的問題 。
and we're going to try to understand what's happening in his brain .	我們會試著去了解他的大腦裡發生了什麼事 。
so we'll start with the hippocampus , shown in yellow , which is the organ of memory .	所以 , 我們先從海馬體開始 , 黃色的就是記憶的器官 。
if you have damage there , like in alzheimer's , you can't remember things including where you parked your car .	如果你在那兒受傷 , 像阿茲海默那樣 , 你就無法記起事情 , 包括你在哪裡停車 。
it's named after latin for " seahorse , " which it resembles .	它是以拉丁文為名的 , 它是以拉丁文為名 , 它是相似的 。
and like the rest of the brain , it's made of neurons .	就像大腦的其餘部分 , 它是由神經元組成的 。
so the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it .	人類的大腦有大約一千億個神經元 。
and the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other .	神經元彼此互相溝通 , 通過發送小脈衝或電流 , 通過互相連結 。
the hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells , which are very densely interconnected .	海馬體是兩種細胞的組成 , 非常緊密的相互連結 。
and scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food .	科學家開始了解空間記憶是如何運作的 , 藉由記錄老鼠或老鼠在覓食或探索環境尋找食物時記錄個人的神經元 。
so we're going to imagine we're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here .	想像一下 , 我們要從這隻老鼠的海馬體中記錄下來 。
and when it fires a little spike of electricity , there's going to be a red dot and a click .	當它開啟一點電力衝動時 , 會有一個紅點 , 點擊一下 。
so what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment .	所以 , 我們看到這個神經元每當老鼠進入某個特定的位置時 , 就會知道這個位置的位置 。
and it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike .	它會傳送到大腦的其他部位 , 藉由發送一個小小的電流 。
so we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal's location .	所以 , 我們可以將神經元的激發率呈現為動物所在位置的功能 。
and if we record from lots of different neurons , we'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment , like in this square box shown here .	如果我們從許多不同的神經元中記錄下來 , 我們會發現 , 當動物進入環境的不同部位時 , 會產生不同的神經元發射 , 就像這邊的正方形盒子 。
so together they form a map for the rest of the brain , telling the brain continually , " where am i now within my environment ? "	所以 , 它們一起組成了一張大腦的地圖 , 不斷地告訴大腦: 「 我現在在我的環境中在哪裡 ? 」
place cells are also being recorded in humans .	位置細胞也被記錄在人類身上 。
so epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring .	所以癲癇患者有時需要腦部監控的電活動 。
and some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town .	有些病人玩了一個電玩遊戲 , 他們在一個小鎮附近開車 。
and place cells in their hippocampi would fire , become active , start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town .	海馬體內的細胞會啟動 , 活躍 , 開始發送電脈衝 , 在他們開車穿過這個城鎮的特定位置 。
so how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment ?	所以 , 一個地方細胞如何知道老鼠或人在其環境中的位置 ?
well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important .	這兩個細胞告訴我們 , 環境的界線特別重要 。
so the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat's in .	最上方的這個 , 像是在老鼠的牆壁中發火一樣 。
and when you expand the box , the firing location expands .	當你拓展盒子時 , 發射地點會擴張 。
the one below likes to fire whenever there's a wall close by to the south .	下面的這一面 , 每當有一面牆靠近南方時 , 就會有一面牆 。
and if you put another wall inside the box , then the cell fires in both place wherever there's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box .	如果你把另一面牆放在盒子裡 , 細胞會在兩邊都有牆壁的位置 , 以動物的盒子來探索 。
so this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you extended buildings and so on is particularly important for the hippocampus .	這種預測 , 感應到你周圍的距離和距離 , 延伸出建築物 , 對於海馬體來說 , 尤其重要 。
and indeed , on the inputs to the hippocampus , cells are found which project into the hippocampus , which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it's exploring around .	的確 , 在海馬體的輸入中 , 細胞會發現海馬體的專案 , 它會根據特定距離來偵測海馬體的界線或邊緣 , 尤其是來自老鼠或老鼠的方向 。
so the cell on the left , you can see , it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east , whether it's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table , which the animals are running around .	左邊的細胞 , 你可以看到 , 當動物靠近牆時 , 它會發出火焰 , 或是向東邊邊界線 , 不論是方形的邊緣 , 或圓形的圍牆 , 或甚至是桌子的邊緣 , 動物會跑來跑去 。
and the cell on the right there fires whenever there's a boundary to the south , whether it's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart .	而在右邊的細胞 , 每當有南邊界時 , 都會被激發 , 不論是桌子的邊緣或是牆壁的邊緣 , 或甚至兩張桌子之間的鴻溝 。
so that's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it's exploring around .	這是我們認為位置細胞的一種方式 , 決定動物在周圍探索的位置 。
we can also test where we think objects are , like this goal flag , in simple environments or indeed , where your car would be .	我們還可以測試我們認為物體的位置 , 比如這個目標 , 在簡單的環境中 , 或你的車子會在哪裡 。
so we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember .	所以我們可以讓人們去探索一個環境 , 看看他們需要記得的地點 。
and then , if we put them back in the environment , generally they're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was .	接著 , 如果我們把它們放回環境中 , 通常它們都很擅長把標記放在他們認為旗幟或車的位置上 。
but on some trials , we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell .	但在某些試驗中 , 我們能改變環境的形狀和大小 , 就像我們用位置細胞所做的一樣 。
in that case , we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment .	在這個案例中 , 我們可以看到他們認為旗幟的改變是如何改變環境的形狀和大小 。
and what you see , for example , if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment , and then if you ask people where it was , but you've made the environment bigger , where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out .	舉例來說 , 你所看到的旗幟在一個小平方的環境中 , 然後如果你問人們在哪裡 , 但你讓環境更大 , 他們認為旗幟在哪裡被延伸出來 , 完全相同地點細胞爆炸的方式 。
it's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location , and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern .	彷彿你還記得旗幟的位置 , 藉由儲存你在那個位置的所有位置細胞的圖案 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 這樣你就可以把你位置細胞的激發模式和那個儲存的圖案進行配對 。
that guides you back to the location that you want to remember .	那會引導你回到你想要記住的位置 。
but we also know where we are through movement .	但我們也知道我們透過運動來做什麼 。
so if we take some outbound path perhaps we park and we wander off we know because our own movements , which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back .	所以如果我們把一些外觀的路徑停下來 , 我們就知道 , 因為我們自己的運動 , 我們可以整合這條路徑 , 來回回走 。
and place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell .	位置細胞也會得到這種路徑整合 , 來自一種叫做格狀細胞的細胞 。
now grid cells are found , again , on the inputs to the hippocampus , and they're a bit like place cells .	同樣的 , 網格細胞在海馬體的輸入 , 它們有點像個地方細胞 。
but now as the rat explores around , each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid .	但現在 , 當老鼠四處探索時 , 每一塊細胞會在不同的地點上發射 , 這些地點是以驚人的三角形狀在周圍形成的 。
and if you record from several grid cells shown here in different colors each one has a gridlike firing pattern across the environment , and each cell's gridlike firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells .	若你從數個網格中記錄到這裡的不同顏色 , 每個細胞都有像網格一樣的旋轉圖案 , 每個細胞的網狀圖案會稍微轉移到其他細胞上 。
so the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one .	紅色的這條格子上是綠色的 , 藍色是這條格子上的藍色 。
so together , it's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you'd find on a map , but using triangles .	所以 , 一起來 , 老鼠就好像可以在其周遭的虛擬網狀網格 , 有點像你在地圖上找到的緯度和長度線 , 但用三角形 。
and as it moves around , the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is , so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment .	當它移動時 , 電子活動會從其中一個細胞傳遞到下一個細胞 , 持續追蹤它的位置 , 這樣它就可以利用它自己的移動 , 來知道它在周圍的位置 。
do people have grid cells ?	人們有網格細胞嗎 ?
well because all of the gridlike firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry , the same orientations of grid , shown in orange here , it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between .	因為所有像網格般的通路圖案都有相同的對稱軸 , 圖中的格狀 , 圖中顯示橘色代表的是 , 所有網格細胞在某個區域的net活動 , 應該根據我們在這些六個方向進行的改變 , 或在六個方向的運作 。
so we can put people in an mri scanner and have them do a little video game like the one i showed you and look for this signal .	所以 , 我們可以把人放進核磁共振造影機 , 讓他們做個小遊戲 , 就像我剛才展示的一樣 , 去尋找這個信號 。
and indeed , you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex , which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats .	的確 , 你的確在人類的腦皮質中看到的 , 和你在老鼠身上看到的網格細胞一樣 。
so back to homer .	回到荷馬 。
he's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked .	他可能還記得車子的距離和方向 , 來延伸建築物和界線 , 在停車位的位置上 。
and that would be represented by the firing of boundarydetecting cells .	由邊界檢測細胞的發射所代表 。
he's also remembering the path he took out of the car park , which would be represented in the firing of grid cells .	他還記得他走出車子公園的路徑 , 它會被代表在網格細胞的發射中 。
now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire .	兩種類型的細胞都可以使地方細胞發光 。
and he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car .	他可以回到他移動的位置 , 找到最好的位置 , 配對大腦中細胞的激發模式 , 目前他用儲存的模式 , 把他的車子停在位置上 。
and that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car's actually there .	那引導他回到那個地點 , 不像他的車子是否真的在那兒 。
maybe it's been towed .	也許它是被推翻的 。
but he knows where it was , so he knows to go and get it .	但他知道它在哪裡 , 所以他知道要去找它 。
so beyond spatial memory , if we look for this gridlike firing pattern throughout the whole brain , we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks , like remembering the last time you went to a wedding , for example .	所以 , 除了空間記憶之外 , 如果我們在整個大腦中尋找像網格般的激動模式 , 我們會在一系列的位置上看到 , 當我們做各種自傳記憶的任務時 , 總是活躍起來 , 比如記住你上次去婚禮時的最後一次 。
so it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene , at least , of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them .	所以 , 可能是因為我們周遭的神經機制也用來產生視覺影像 , 使我們能夠重現空間的場景 , 至少 , 當我們想想像它們時發生的事件 。
so if this was happening , your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint .	所以 , 如果這發生了 , 你的記憶可以從這些密度的相互連結開始 , 再次啟動邊界細胞 , 來創造你觀點周圍的空間結構 。
and grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space .	網格細胞可以在這個空間中移動這個觀點 。
another kind of cell , head direction cells , which i didn't mention yet , they fire like a compass according to which way you're facing .	另外一種細胞 , 頭部的方向細胞 , 我還沒提到 , 它們會像一個指針一樣 , 根據你正在面對的方向 。
they could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery , so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding , for example .	他們可以根據你的視覺圖像來定義視覺的方向 , 例如 , 當你在婚禮上時 , 會發生什麼事 。
so this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains .	所以這只是一個新的認知神經科學的一個例子 , 我們開始了解心理的過程 , 像是你如何記得、想像 , 甚至在數十億個獨立神經元的行動中 , 開始思考 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝大家
imagine a global security driven by collaboration among agencies , government , the private sector and the public . that's not just the distant hope of opensource fans , it's the vision of james stavridis , the supreme commander of nato , who shares vivid moments from recent military history to explain why security of the future should be built with bridges rather than walls .	想像一個全球安全驅動力 , 由政府、私營部門和大眾合作 。 這不僅僅是開放源碼的粉絲所驅動的遠景 , 最高層的namesstridis , 來自最近的軍事歷史中 , 維生下來的偉大時刻 , 來解釋為何未來的安全性應該是用橋而不是牆壁來建造的 。
collaboration , global issues , opensource , peace , politics , social media , violence , war	合作、全球議題、開放原始碼、和平、政治、社交媒體、暴力、戰爭、戰爭、開放原始碼、開放資源、和平、政治、政治、政治、社交媒體、社交媒體、暴力、暴力、
james stavridis: how nato's supreme commander thinks about global security	詹姆斯斯•斯特里迪斯:nato的最高指揮官對全球安全的看法是如何看待全球安全 。
i'm gonna talk a little bit about opensource security , because we've got to get better at security in this 21st century .	我將要談談開放原始碼安全 , 因為我們在21世紀必須更好 。
let me start by saying , let's look back to the 20th century , and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us .	首先 , 讓我們回顧一下二十世紀 , 對於安全的運作方式 , 有點了解到安全的運作方式 。
this is verdun , a battlefield in france just north of the nato headquarters in belgium .	這是verdun , 法國的一個戰場 , 位在北美比利時總部的北方 。
at verdun , in 1916 , over a 300day period , 700 , 000 people were killed , so about 2 , 000 a day .	1916年 , 在verdun , 超過300天 , 70萬人死亡 , 每天大約2000人死亡 。
if you roll it forward 20thcentury security into the second world war , you see the battle of stalingrad , 300 days , 2 million people killed .	如果你將它推向20世紀的第二次世界大戰 , 你會看到史達林升級的戰役 , 300天 , 兩百萬人死亡 。
we go into the cold war , and we continue to try and build walls .	我們進入冷戰 , 繼續嘗試建造牆壁 。
we go from the trench warfare of the first world war to the maginot line of the second world war , and then we go into the cold war , the iron curtain , the berlin wall .	我們從第一次世界大戰開始 , 變成第二次世界大戰的馬吉尼線 , 然後我們進入冷戰 , 鐵幕 , 柏林牆 。
my thesis for us today is , instead of building walls to create security , we need to build bridges .	今天 , 我的論點是 , 與其建構安全 , 我們需要建立橋樑 。
this is a famous bridge in europe .	這是歐洲有名的橋 。
it's the bridge over the drina river , the subject of a novel by ivo andrić , and it talks about how , in that very troubled part of europe and the balkans , over time there's been enormous building of walls .	它是一座橋 , 位於愛德華•安德里的小說 , 它談到如何在歐洲和巴爾幹半島 , 經過一段時間 , 一直有一座巨大的牆壁 。
more recently , in the last decade , we begin to see these communities start , hesitatingly , to come together .	最近 , 在過去十年 , 我們開始看到這些社區開始 , 猶豫地 , 團結在一起 。
i would argue , again , opensource security is about connecting the international , the interagency , the privatepublic , and lashing it together with strategic communication , largely in social networks .	我認為 , 開放原始碼的安全性是要連結國際的 , 國際的介入 , 私人公開的 , 將它與戰略通訊聯繫在一起 , 主要是在社交網路上 。
so let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that , because our global commons is under attack in a variety of ways , and none of the sources of threat to the global commons will be solved by building walls .	所以 , 讓我來談談為什麼我們需要這樣做 , 因為我們的全球公有物在各方面受到攻擊 , 而沒有任何威脅的來源 , 都是由建牆來解決 。
now , i'm a sailor , obviously .	很明顯 , 我是水手 。
this is a ship , a liner , clipping through the indian ocean .	這是一艘船 , 一艘線性 , 穿過印度洋 。
what's wrong with this picture ?	這張照片有什麼問題 ?
it's got concertina wire along the sides of it .	它的邊緣有協奏曲線 。
that's to prevent pirates from attacking it .	這是要防止海盜攻擊 。
piracy is a very active threat today around the world . this is in the indian ocean .	海盜現在是世界上非常活躍的威脅 。 這是在印度洋 。
piracy is also very active in the strait of malacca .	海盜也非常活躍在馬拉加的位置上 。
it's active in the gulf of guinea .	它位於幾內亞海灣 。
we see it in the caribbean .	我們在加勒比海看到它 。
it's a $10billionayear discontinuity in the global transport system .	在全球交通運輸系統中 , 它是10億美元的不連續性 。
last year , at this time , there were 20 vessels , 500 mariners held hostage .	去年 , 當時有20艘船 , 500名海軍陸地主持人 。
this is an attack on the global commons .	這是全球公有物的攻擊 。
we need to think about how to address it .	我們需要考慮如何處理它 。
let's shift to a different kind of sea , the cyber sea .	咱們來轉變一種不同的海洋 , 網路海 。
here are photographs of two young men .	這是兩位年輕男士的照片 。
at the moment , they're incarcerated .	此時此刻 , 他們被監禁 。
they conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars .	他們進行了一張信用卡詐欺 , 用了超過一百億美金 。
this is part of cybercrime which is a $2trillionayear discontinuity in the global economy .	這是網路犯罪的一部分 , 在全球經濟中有2兆美元的連續性 。
two trillion a year .	一年兩兆美元 。
that's just under the gdp of great britain .	這只是英國的國內生產總值 。
so this cyber sea , which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness , is very much under threat as well .	所以這個網路海 , 我們知道無止盡是根本的開放 , 同時也受到威脅 。
another thing i worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking , by the movement of narcotics , opium , here coming out of afghanistan through europe over to the united states .	在全球公有物中 , 我擔心的另一件事 , 是人口販賣、毒品、鴉片、來自阿富汗的威脅 。
we worry about cocaine coming from the andean ridge north .	我們擔心來自安地斯山脊的可卡因 。
we worry about the movement of illegal weapons and trafficking . above all , perhaps , we worry about human trafficking , and the awful cost of it .	我們擔心非法武器的運動 , 最重要的是 , 我們擔心人口販賣 , 以及它的成本 。
trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons .	人口販賣會在海上移動 , 但在全球公有物的其他地方 。
this is a photograph , and i wish i could tell you that this is a very hightech piece of us navy gear that we're using to stop the trafficking .	這是一張照片 , 我希望我能告訴你們這是一個非常高科技的美國海軍陸戰隊我們用它來阻止人口販賣 。
the bad news is , this is a semisubmersible run by drug cartels .	壞消息是 , 這是一個由毒品卡特爾負責的半個半個半個半個子 。
it was built in the jungles of south america .	它是在南美的叢林裡建造的 。
we caught it with that lowtech raft — — and it was carrying six tons of cocaine .	我們用那低科技的火雞捕捉到它 , 它帶著六噸的可卡因 。
crew of four . sophisticated communications sweep .	第四個 。 精密的通訊會掃描 。
this kind of trafficking , in narcotics , in humans , in weapons , god forbid , in weapons of mass destruction , is part of the threat to the global commons .	這種販賣、毒品、人、武器、上帝禁止大規模破壞的武器 , 是對全球公有物威脅的一部分 。
and let's pull it together in afghanistan today .	今天我們一起在阿富汗 。
this is a field of poppies in afghanistan .	這是在阿富汗的一個派對 。
eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppy , opium and heroin , comes out of afghanistan .	世界上百分之八十到九十的餅乾、鴉片和海洛因 , 來自阿富汗 。
we also see there , of course , terrorism .	當然 , 我們也看到了恐怖主義 。
this is where al qaeda is staged from .	這是基地組織所在的地方 。
we also see a very strong insurgency embedded there .	我們也看到一個非常強烈的迫切性嵌在其中 。
so this terrorism concern is also part of the global commons , and what we must address .	所以 , 這種恐怖主義的關注也是全球公有物的一部分 , 我們必須解決的問題 。
so here we are , 21st century .	所以 , 我們在這裡 , 21世紀 。
we know our 20thcentury tools are not going to work .	我們知道我們20世紀的工具不會有用 。
what should we do ?	我們該怎麼做 ?
i would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我認為 , 我們不會只從槍枝的桶子上遞送安全 。
we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我們不會只從槍枝的桶子上遞送安全性 。
we will need the application of military force .	我們需要軍隊的應用 。
when we do it , we must do it well , and competently .	當我們這麼做時 , 我們必須要做得很好 , 且要有競爭力 。
but my thesis is , opensource security is about international , interagency , privatepublic connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the internet .	但我的論點是 , 開放式安全是關於國際、國際間、私人公共的關係 , 由網路上的策略通訊的概念所組成 。
let me give you a couple of examples of how this works in a positive way .	讓我舉幾個例子來說明這如何以正面的方式運作 。
this is afghanistan . these are afghan soldiers .	這是阿富汗 。 這些是阿富汗士兵 。
they are all holding books .	他們都是拿著書 。
you should say , " that's odd . i thought i read that this demographic , young men and women in their 20s and 30s , is largely illiterate in afghanistan . "	你應該說: 「 這很奇怪 。 我想我讀到 , 人口統計學 , 二十、三十歲的年輕男女 , 大部分都是在阿富汗的文盲 。 」
you would be correct .	你可能會是正確的 。
eightyfive percent cannot read when they enter the security forces of afghanistan .	當他們進入阿富汗安全部隊時 , 85%無法閱讀 。
why ? because the taliban withheld education during the period of time in which these men and women would have learned to read .	為什麼 ? 因為塔利班長期在這些男人和女人都學會閱讀 。
so the question is , so , why are they all standing there holding books ?	所以問題是 , 為什麼他們都站在那裡拿著書 ?
the answer is , we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by nato in partnership with private sector entities , in partnership with development agencies .	答案是 , 我們在教導他們在識字課程中讀書 , 透過和私人企業合作 , 和發展機構合作 。
we've taught well over 200 , 000 afghan security forces to read and write at a basic level .	我們已經教過超過二十萬阿富汗安全部隊來閱讀和寫在基本的層面 。
when you can read and write in afghanistan , you will typically put a pen in your pocket .	當你閱讀和寫在阿富汗 , 你通常會把一支筆放在你的口袋裡 。
at the ceremonies , when these young men and women graduate , they take that pen with great pride , and put it in their pocket .	在儀式裡 , 當這些年輕男女畢業時 , 他們把那支筆拿到很大的驕傲的錢 , 把它放在口袋裡 。
this is bringing together international — there are 50 nations involved in this mission — interagency — these development agencies — and privatepublic , to take on this kind of security .	這使得國際組織有五十個國家參與這個任務 , 國際組織這些發展機構和私人公共機構 , 來進行這種安全 。
now , we are also teaching them combat skills , of course , but i would argue , opensource security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect .	當然 , 我們也在教他們戰鬥技巧 , 但我認為 , 開放原始碼安全意味著將更長久的安全聯繫起來 。
this is a us navy warship .	這是美國海軍戰艦 。
it's called the comfort .	它叫做舒適 。
there's a sister ship called the mercy .	有一艘叫做慈悲的姐妹船 。
they are hospital ships .	他們是醫院的船隻 。
this one , the comfort , operates throughout the caribbean and the coast of south america conducting patient treatments .	這個 , 舒適 , 在加勒比海和南美洲的海岸進行病人治療 。
on a typical cruise , they'll do 400 , 000 patient treatments .	在典型的路易士 , 他們會進行四十萬個病人的治療 。
it is crewed not strictly by military but by a combination of humanitarian organizations: operation hope , project smile .	它並不是由軍隊所組成 , 而是由人道組織組成的組合:營運希望、微笑 。
other organizations send volunteers .	其他組織發送志願者 。
interagency physicians come out .	外科醫生出來了 。
they're all part of this .	它們都是這個的一部分 。
to give you one example of the impact this can have , this little boy , eight years old , walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the comfort .	舉個例子 , 這個小男孩 , 八歲 , 帶著他的母親走兩天走進舒適的眼科診所 。
when he was fitted , over his extremely myopic eyes , he suddenly looked up and said , " mama , veo el mundo . "	當他適應了 , 在他的極端的眼睛中 , 他突然抬起頭 , 說: 「 媽媽 , 維歐•埃爾普羅 」
" mom , i see the world . "	「 媽 , 我看見這個世界 。 」
multiply this by 400 , 000 patient treatments , this privatepublic collaboration with security forces , and you begin to see the power of creating security in a very different way .	乘以四十萬人的治療 , 這種私人公開的合作 , 和安全部隊合作 , 你開始以非常不同的方式 , 創造安全的力量 。
here you see baseball players .	在這裡你可以看到棒球運動員 。
can you pick out the two us army soldiers in this photograph ?	你能在這張照片中挑出兩位美國軍隊嗎 ?
they are the two young men on either side of these young boys . this is part of a series of baseball clinics , where we have explored collaboration between major league baseball , the department of state , who sets up the diplomatic piece of this , military baseball players , who are real soldiers with real skills but participate in this mission , and they put on clinics throughout latin america and the caribbean , in honduras , in nicaragua , in all of the central american and caribbean nations where baseball is so popular , and it creates security .	兩位年輕男孩兩位年輕男孩 。 這是一系列的棒球診所的一部分 , 我們探討了大聯盟棒球、國家部門 , 他們設立了這個防彈軍棒球員 , 他們是真正的軍隊 , 但參與這個使命的一部分 , 他們在拉丁美洲和加勒比海 , 在全美洲和加勒比海 , 在全美各個角落 , 創造了安全保險 。
it shows role models to young men and women about fitness and about life that i would argue help create security for us .	它向年輕男性和女性的榜樣 , 展現了關於健身和生活的典範 , 我主張幫助我們創造安全 。
another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief .	另一方面 , 這種合作關係在災難性的解脫中 。
this is a us air force helicopter participating after the tsunami in 2004 which killed 250 , 000 people .	這是美國空軍直升機 , 在2004年海嘯發生後 , 造成25萬人死亡 。
in each of these major disasters — the tsunami in 2004 , 250 , 000 dead , the kashmiri earthquake in pakistan , 2005 , 85 , 000 dead , the haitian earthquake , about 300 , 000 dead , more recently the awful earthquaketsunami combination which struck japan and its nuclear industry — in all of these instances , we see partnerships between international actors , interagency , privatepublic working with security forces to respond to this kind of natural disaster .	在這些重大的災難中 , 2004年海嘯發生了25萬人死亡 , 2005年巴基斯坦的kamiri地震 , 8萬5千人死亡 , 海地震大約有30萬人死亡 , 最近的地震隧道加上了日本和核子產業 , 在所有這些例子中 , 我們看到了國際演員、國際關係、國際關係、私人合作合作 , 和安全的災難 。
so these are examples of this idea of opensource security .	這些是開放式安全的例子 。
we tie it together , increasingly , by doing things like this .	我們將它連接起來 , 越來越多的做法 , 像是這樣 。
now , you're looking at this thinking , " ah , admiral , these must be sea lanes of communication , or these might be fiber optic cables . "	各位現在看到的是這個想法: 「 啊 , 阿達密 , 這些必定是溝通的海道 , 或這些可能是光纖電纜 。 」
no . this is a graphic of the world according to twitter .	不 , 這是全球根據推特的圖表 。
purple are tweets . green are geolocation .	紫色是推特 , 綠色是地緣化 。
white is the synthesis .	白色是合成 。
it's a perfect evocation of that great population survey , the six largest nations in the world in descending order: china , india , facebook , the united states , twitter and indonesia .	它是一個絕佳的驅動人口調查 , 世界上六大國進行下降秩序:中國、印度、臉書、美國、推特和印尼 。
why do we want to get in these nets ?	為什麼我們要進入這些蚊帳 ?
why do we want to be involved ?	為什麼我們要參與其中 ?
we talked earlier about the arab spring , and the power of all this .	我們先前談到阿拉伯之春 , 以及這一切的力量 。
i'll give you another example , and it's how you move this message .	再舉一個例子 , 該如何傳遞這個訊息 。
i gave a talk like this in london a while back about this point . i said , as i say to all of you , i'm on facebook . friend me .	我在倫敦發表了一場這樣的演講 。 正如我對你們說的 , 我在facebook , 朋友們 。
got a little laugh from the audience .	聽眾笑了一下 。
there was an article which was run by ap , on the wire .	有一篇文章是以ap來經營 。
got picked up in two places in the world: finland and indonesia .	世界上有兩個地方:芬蘭和印尼 。
the headline was: nato admiral needs friends .	頭條是:北約需求需求的朋友 。
and the story was a catalyst , and the next morning i had hundreds of facebook friend requests from indonesians and finns , mostly saying , " admiral , we heard you need a friend , and oh , by the way , what is nato ? "	故事是催化劑 , 隔天早上 , 我有數百個來自印尼的朋友請求 , 來自印尼人和芬蘭人 , 大多是說: 「 農夫 , 我們聽說你需要一個朋友 , 順便一提 , 哪個是北約 ? 」
yeah , we laugh , but this is how we move the message , and moving that message is how we connect international , interagency , privatepublic , and these social nets to help create security .	沒錯 , 我們笑了 , 但這就是我們如何傳遞訊息 , 移動那個訊息 , 是我們如何連結國際、國際、國際、私人公開、這些社會網絡 , 來協助創造安全 。
now , let me hit a somber note .	現在 , 讓我按下一個音 。
this is a photograph of a brave british soldier .	這是一張勇敢的英國士兵的照片 。
he's in the scots guards .	他在史考特的守衛中 。
he's standing the watch in helmand , in southern afghanistan .	他站在阿富汗南阿富汗的監獄中 。
i put him here to remind us , i would not want anyone to leave the room thinking that we do not need capable , competent militaries who can create real military effect .	我讓他來這裡提醒我們 , 我不想讓任何人離開房間 , 認為我們不需要有能力、有能力的軍隊 , 他們可以創造出真正的軍事效應 。
that is the core of who we are and what we do , and we do it to protect freedom , freedom of speech , all the things we treasure in our societies .	這就是我們所做的核心 , 並且保護自由 , 言論自由 , 所有我們在社會中珍惜的事物 。
but , you know , life is not an onandoff switch .	但 , 你知道的 , 生命不是開關 。
you don't have to have a military that is either in hard combat or is in the barracks .	你不需要軍隊 , 要不就在戰場上 , 要不就在戰場上 。
i would argue life is a rheostat .	我會爭辯生命是一場災難 。
you have to dial it in , and as i think about how we create security in this 21st century , there will be times when we will apply hard power in true war and crisis , but there will be many instances , as we've talked about today , where our militaries can be part of creating 21stcentury security , international , interagency , privatepublic , connected with competent communication .	你要把它撥進去 , 正如我在思考我們如何在21世紀建立安全性 , 我們要在真正的戰爭和危機上使用硬力 , 但還有很多例子 , 如我們今天所說的 , 軍隊可以成為創造21世紀安全、國際、國際、國際安全、私人公平、與競爭溝通的一部分 。
i would close by saying that we heard earlier today about wikipedia . i use wikipedia all the time to look up facts , and as all of you appreciate , wikipedia is not created by 12 brilliant people locked in a room writing articles .	最後我要說的是 , 今天早些時候我們聽到維基百科 。 我常常用維基百科來查證事實 , 就像你們所欣賞的 , 維基百科並不是由十二位傑出的人鎖在一個房間寫文章 。
wikipedia , every day , is tens of thousands of people inputting information , and every day millions of people withdrawing that information .	維基百科每天都有成千上萬人輸入信息 , 每天有數百萬人用這些信息編排 。
it's a perfect image for the fundamental point that no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	對根本的觀點來說 , 沒有人像我們所有人一樣聰明 。
no one person , no one alliance , no one nation , no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	沒有一個人 , 沒有一個聯盟 , 沒有一個國家 , 沒有人像我們所有人一樣聰明 。
the vision statement of wikipedia is very simple: a world in which every human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge .	維基百科的視覺陳述是非常簡單的:一個每個人都可以在知識總和分享的世界 。
my thesis for you is that by combining international , interagency , privatepublic , strategic communication , together , in this 21st century , we can create the sum of all security .	我的論點是 , 透過結合國際、國際、私人公開、戰略溝通 , 在21世紀 , 我們就能創造所有安全的總和 。
thank you very much . thank you . thank you .	非常謝謝你們 。 謝謝 。
