BLEU = 22.15 55.0/29.6/16.7/9.9 (BP = 0.973 ratio = 0.973 hyp_len = 108324 ref_len = 111282)
when you say she's a programmer , she did do some , but the real thing is to have said the future is going to be much , much more than this .	當你說她是程式設計師時 , 她做了一些事 , 但真正的 , 是要說未來會比這個還要多 。
now , a hundred years later , this guy comes along , alan turing , and in 1936 , and invents the computer all over again .	一百年後 , 這個傢伙出現了亞特林 , 1936年 , 發明了電腦 。
now , of course , babbage's machine was entirely mechanical .	當然 , 巴比斯的機器是完全機械的 。
turing's machine was entirely theoretical .	turing的機器完全是理論性的 。
both of these guys were coming from a mathematical perspective , but turing told us something very important .	這些人都是從數學角度來的 , 但土耳其告訴我們一件非常重要的事 。
he laid down the mathematical foundations for computer science , and said , " it doesn't matter how you make a computer . "	他把數學基礎放在電腦科學上 , 說: 「 不論你如何製作電腦 。 」
it doesn't matter if your computer's mechanical , like babbage's was , or electronic , like computers are today , or perhaps in the future , cells , or , again , mechanical again , once we get into nanotechnology .	不管是電腦的機械裝置 , 像是babbage的 , 或是電子裝置 , 像現今的電腦 , 或也許在未來的細胞 , 或再一次 , 一旦我們進入了奈米科技 。
we could go back to babbage's machine and just make it tiny . all those things are computers .	我們可以回到babbage的機器 , 讓它變小 , 所有這些東西都是電腦 。
there is in a sense a computing essence .	有一個計算機的本質 。
this is called the church–turing thesis .	這是所謂的教堂演唱論 。
and so suddenly , you get this link where you say this thing babbage had built really was a computer .	突然間 , 你看到了這個連結 , 你說巴比斯建造了這個東西 , 真的是一台電腦 。
in fact , it was capable of doing everything we do today with computers , only really slowly .	事實上 , 它能夠做到我們今天用電腦做的每件事 , 只能慢慢地 。
to give you an idea of how slowly , it had about 1k of memory .	為了讓你們知道 , 記憶有多慢 , 它有1k的記憶力 。
it used punch cards , which were being fed in , and it ran about 10 , 000 times slower the first zx81 .	它會用穿孔卡 , 被吸進來 , 最早的zx81會慢一萬倍 。
it did have a ram pack .	它的確有一堆雨水 。
you could add on a lot of extra memory if you wanted to .	如果你想加入多餘的記憶體 。
so , where does that bring us today ?	那麼 , 這帶給我們什麼呢 ?
so there are plans .	所以 , 有一些計畫 。
over in swindon , the science museum archives , there are hundreds of plans and thousands of pages of notes written by charles babbage about this analytical engine .	在瑞典 , 科學博物館檔案 , 有數百個計劃和數以千計的筆記 , 由查爾斯•巴貝奇寫下這個分析引擎 。
one of those is a set of plans that we call plan 28 , and that is also the name of a charity that i started with doron swade , who was the curator of computing at the science museum , and also the person who drove the project to build a difference engine , and our plan is to build it .	其中一個是我們稱之為 「 計畫28 」 的計畫 , 也是我一開始的慈善機構的名字 , 他是科學博物館的競賽者 , 也是開車建造不同引擎的人 , 我們的計劃就是要建造它 。
here in south kensington , we will build the analytical engine .	在南肯辛頓 , 我們會建造分析引擎 。
the project has a number of parts to it .	這個計畫有許多零件可以用來做 。
one was the scanning of babbage's archive .	其中一個是巴比斯的檔案 。
that's been done . the second is now the study of all of those plans to determine what to build .	這已經完成了 。 第二個是研究所有計劃的研究 , 來決定要建造什麼 。
the third part is a computer simulation of that machine , and the last part is to physically build it at the science museum .	第三部分是電腦模擬這台機器的最後一部分就是在科學博物館建造它 。
when it's built , you'll finally be able to understand how a computer works , because rather than having a tiny chip in front of you , you've got to look at this humongous thing and say , " ah , i see the memory operating , i see the cpu operating , i hear it operating . i probably smell it operating . "	當它建成時 , 你終於可以理解電腦如何運作 , 因為不如在你面前有一個小小的晶片 , 你得看看這個龐大的東西 , 然後說: 「 啊 , 我看到記憶操作 , 我看到cpu操作 , 我聽見它在運作 。 我可能聞到它 。 」
but in between that we're going to do a simulation .	但在這兩者之間 , 我們要做模擬 。
babbage himself wrote , he said , as soon as the analytical engine exists , it will surely guide the future course of science .	巴比斯自己寫下 , 他說 , 一旦分析引擎存在 , 它將會引導未來科學的發展 。
of course , he never built it , because he was always fiddling with new plans , but when it did get built , of course , in the 1940s , everything changed .	當然 , 他從來沒有打造它 , 因為他總是和新計劃結合 , 但當他建造時 , 當然 , 在1940年代 , 一切都改變了 。
now , i'll just give you a little taste of what it looks like in motion with a video which shows just one part of the cpu mechanism working .	現在 , 我給大家一點一點點味道 , 用影片顯示cpu機制運作的其中一部分 。
so this is just three sets of cogs , and it's going to add . this is the adding mechanism in action , so you imagine this gigantic machine .	所以這只是三組齒輪 , 它會加上它 。 這是行動的加速機制 , 所以你想像這台巨大的機器 。
so , give me five years .	所以 , 給我五年 。
before the 2030s happen , we'll have it .	在2030年代之前 , 我們將會有它 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝 。
in this imagefilled talk , yann arthusbertrand displays his three most recent projects on humanity and our habitat stunning aerial photographs in his series " the earth from above , " personal interviews from around the globe featured in his web project " 6 billion others , " and his soontobereleased movie , " home , " which documents human impact on the environment through breathtaking video .	在這張影像中 , 雅恩•亞伯特蘭德展示了他最近期人類和我們居住的居住地照片 , 在他的系列中 , 《地》中 , 來自世界各地的個人訪問 , 《六十億人的網路專案》 , 以及他的小說《六十億人》 , 透過呼吸的影片 , 記錄了人類對環境的影響 。
art , climate change , environment , film , future , humanity , media , photography	藝術、氣候變遷、環境、未來、人類、媒體、攝影 。
yann arthusbertrand captures fragile earth in wideangle	yan藝術hubertrand在寬角處捕捉脆弱的地球 。
i have a big impact on the planet to travel here by plane .	我對地球的影響很大 , 由飛機來到這裡 。
i emitted , in the atmosphere , nine tons of co2 ; that is the weight of two elephants .	我在大氣中排放九噸的二氧化碳 , 那是兩隻大象的重量 。
i came here to speak about ecology , and i emitted as much co2 as a frenchman in one year .	我來這裡談的是生態學 , 一年內我將二氧化碳排放成法國人 。
so what do i have to do ?	所以 , 我該怎麼做 ?
i have to kill a frenchman when i come back at home ?	當我回到家時 , 我得殺害一位法國人嗎 ?
i have to do my carbon offset in another way , like i do every time .	我必須用另一種方式來做我的碳排放 , 就像我每次都在做一樣 。
in fact my work is to show our impact on our planet .	事實上 , 我的作品是要展現我們對地球的影響 。
i'm going to show you some examples of the last pictures i've done in the last year .	我要給你們看一些例子 , 是我去年拍的最後一張照片 。
alberta sand oil , a lot of pollution .	亞伯達•沙石 , 很多污染 。
you know the problem ; we don't want to believe what we know .	你知道問題 , 我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
in alberta people work nonstop , 24 hours by seven to extract as much oil as they can .	在阿爾伯塔人工作非營運24小時 , 七小時 , 盡可能抽取石油 。
we know about the end of oil .	我們知道石油的終點 。
oil sand is not a longterm solution .	石油沙子不是長期的解決方案 。
but we use three times more oil than we find every year .	但我們每年使用三倍的石油 , 比我們所發現的石油還要多 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
coral reef in new caledonia .	新加州的珊瑚礁 。
100 percent of the coral may be wiped out before 2050 because of global warming .	在2050年之前 , 百分之百的珊瑚可能會因為全球暖化而消失 。
and you know how coral are very sensitive to temperature , and are very important for the biodiversity of the sea .	你知道珊瑚對溫度非常敏感 , 對海洋的生物多樣性非常重要 。
north pole . i've done this picture last summer .	北極 , 我去年夏天拍了這張照片 。
it was impossible to do this picture 15 years ago .	15年前這張照片是不可能的 。
now there is a new way open between atlantic and pacific .	在大西洋和太平洋之間有一個新方法 。
the thickness of the arctic decreased more than 40 percent since 1960 .	從1960年以來 , 北極的濃度減少了超過40% 。
there is a new face of kilimanjaro without ice .	沒有冰的吉里馬尼歐有新的面孔 。
it lost 80 percent of its ice .	它失去了80%的冰 。
according to scientists , in 100 years all the mountain glacier will be gone .	根據科學家 , 在一百年內 , 所有山的冰河都會消失 。
glaciers are very important for the life on earth .	冰河對地球的生命是非常重要的 。
like al gore told you , two billion people live on the water from the glacier of himalaya .	就像高爾說過的 , 有20億人住在喜馬拉雅冰河的水上 。
return of fish men .	回歸魚類的人 。
one fifth of human kind depend on fish to live .	五分之一的人類依賴魚來生存 。
today now 70 percent of the fish stock are overexploited .	現今 , 70%的魚類被濫用了 。
according to fao , if we don't change our system of fishing the main sea resources will be gone in 2050 .	根據faceo , 如果我們不改變我們的捕魚系統 , 主要的海洋資源將會在2050年消失 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
the beautiful picture , by [unclear] in africa .	這張美麗的照片 , 來自非洲 。
one human of six have not enough to eat in the world .	六個人沒有足夠的食物可以在世界上吃 。
one billion people have not enough to eat .	十億人沒有足夠的飲食 。
in africa , corn is one of the main foods in many places .	在非洲 , 玉米是許多地方主要的食物之一 。
here in america , 90 percent of the corn cultivated is used to feed animals or to do oil .	在美國 , 百分之九十的玉米培養被用來餵食動物或做石油 。
palm tree plantation in borneo .	棕櫚樹種植在出生時 。
every year we lose 50 thousand square miles in deforestation .	每年我們損失了五萬平方英里的森林砍伐 。
refugee camp in darfur .	達佛的難民營 。
today we have 20 million refugees in the world .	今天我們有兩千萬名難民 。
according to the u . n . , we speak about 250 million refugees in 2050 .	根據聯合國 , 我們在2050年談到2億5千萬難民 。
i always show my pictures in the street .	我總是在街上展示我的照片 。
we have done already 100 exhibitions in the cities .	我們已經在城市裡做了100個展覽 。
but how to understand the world without the voice of people ?	但若沒有人的聲音 , 要如何理解這個世界 ?
landscape was not enough .	地景不夠 。
it was obvious to me to do another work .	很顯然我要做另一份工作 。
i launched a project named six billion others .	我發起了一個名為六十億人的計畫 。
i sent around the world six cameramen asking the same question , the same crucial question , about life .	我把世界上六個攝影機送到世界各地問同樣的問題 , 同樣的關鍵問題 , 關於生命 。
we have done five thousand interviews .	我們做了五千個訪談 。
i'm going to show you this .	我要給你們看這個 。
man: the most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life ?	男子:我人生中最美麗的事情 ?
it's when my dad told me , " here , i give you this girl as your fiance . "	我父親告訴我: 「 在這裡 , 我把這個女孩當作你的優雅 。 」
woman: love ? love is nice if you can have it .	女人:愛 ? 愛是好的 , 如果你能做到的話 。
second man: romeo and juliet , sassi and panno , dodi and diana , heer and ranjha , this is love ! third man: my greatest fear is . . .	第二個男人:羅密歐和茱麗葉 , 薩西、多迪、多迪、戴安娜、哈哈 , 這是愛 ! 第三個男人:我最大的恐懼......
woman: you're asking me a hard question .	女子:你在問我一個困難的問題 。
fourth man: i live happily because what else should i do ?	第四個男人:我活得很快樂 , 因為我該怎麼做 ?
fifth man: the first thing i remember . . .	第五個男人:我記得的第一件事 。
fifth man: . . . from my childhood , fifth man: we were having fun , biking .	第五個男人:從我的童年 , 第五個男人:我們有樂趣 , 腳踏車 。
seventh man: we invented stories , we flew around the world , while remaining in our attic .	第七個男人:我們發明了故事 , 我們飛遍世界各地 , 卻仍在我們的政治中 。
eighth man: i had a big laugh today .	8h男人:今天我有一個大笑 。
ninth man: you see , family is . . . it's awful .	第九個男人:你看 , 家庭是......很糟糕 。
10th man: in the word life , you have the life .	第十個男人:在生命中 , 你有生命 。
11th man: who am i ? isn't that the biggest question ?	第十一個男人:我是誰 ? 不是最大的問題嗎 ?
12th man: if i was to go back to iraq and speak to the people , i'd have to bow down and kiss their feet .	第十二個男人:如果我回到伊拉克跟那些人說話 , 我就得下腳 , 親吻他們的腳 。
just as that woman tried to kiss my feet when we were taking her sons .	正如那位女子在服用她的兒子時 , 試著親吻我的腳 。
and i feel humbled by their strength .	我感到謙卑 , 因為他們的力量 。
and i will forever feel a need to make reparations to iraq .	我永遠會覺得 , 需要對伊拉克做回應 。
second woman: dad , mom , i grew up .	第二個女人:爸 , 媽 , 我長大了 。
you shouldn't worry about me . dad doesn't need to go to work .	你不該擔心我 。 爸爸不需要去工作 。
my family . . . what can i say ?	我的家人......我能說什麼 ?
at the moment , my family is very poor , my life here in shenzhen is just about showing myself that i can earn more and to let my parents stay and have something to live on .	此刻 , 我的家人很窮 , 我在深圳的人生 , 只是要展現自己 , 我可以賺更多錢 , 讓我的父母留下來 , 還能活下去 。
i don't want them to spend their whole lives in poverty .	我不希望他們一輩子都生活在貧窮中 。
if someday i can achieve something , i would like to say thank you daddy and mommy .	如果有一天我能達成某樣東西 , 我想說謝謝爸和媽媽 。
thank you for having fed me and raised me , and for making my life of today . thank you .	謝謝你給我餵飽和養長大 , 今天讓我的人生 。 謝謝 。
13th man: after seven years now of being in a wheelchair , i've done more in life being in a chair than out of a chair .	第十三個男人:現在七年來在輪椅上 , 我在人生中做得比椅子還要多 。
i still surf . i sail the world . i freedive .	我仍然衝浪 , 我航行這個世界 。 我自由了 。
after many people said i couldn't do that .	經過許多人說我做不到 。
and i think that comes from connecting with nature , connecting with the energy of life , because we're all disabled in some way on the planet spiritually , mentally or physically .	我認為這來自於與大自然連結 , 與生命的能量連結 , 因為我們都在靈感上存在殘疾 , 心理上或身體上的存在 。
i got the easy part .	我得到了簡單的部分 。
14th man: let's say that you and me like each other .	第十四個男人:讓我們說你和我一樣 。
you come from elsewhere .	你來自其他地方 。
you don't know me . i don't know you .	你不認識我 , 我不認識你 。
we talk without lying .	我們沒有說謊 。
if i do like you , i give you one cow and many other things and we become friends .	如果我喜歡你 , 我給你一頭牛和很多其他東西 , 我們就會變成朋友 。
how can we make it all by ourselves ?	我們要如何讓它全都是自己 ?
yab: you can also go to the website , answer respond to the questions also .	yab:你也可以上網站 , 回答這個問題也會回應 。
now i am going to speak to you about my movie .	現在我要跟大家談我的電影 。
for the last three years , i was shooting the earth for the movie .	過去三年 , 我為電影拍攝地球 。
the name of the movie is " home " " maison . "	電影的名字是 「 家 」 梅森 。
it is about the state of the planet .	重點在於地球的狀態 。
it's a fantastic story of life on the earth .	這是一個關於地球上生命的奇妙故事 。
i'm very proud to show you the teaser .	我很驕傲地向你們展示這些小龍蝦 。
video: this earth is four and a half billion years old .	影片:地球已經四十五億歲了 。
these plants , several hundred million years old .	這些植物 , 幾億年前 。
and we humans have been walking upright for only 200 thousand years .	我們人類只走了二十萬年 。
we've managed to adapt , and have conquered the whole planet .	我們已經成功地適應 , 征服了整個地球 。
for generations , we've been raising our children , not unlike millions of other species living beside us .	數世代以來 , 我們一直在養育我們的孩子 , 而不是其他數百萬種生物 , 除了我們之外 。
for the past 30 years i've been closely watching the earth and its dwellers from high up in the sky .	過去三十年來 , 我非常靠近地球和它在天空中高空中高空的dweller 。
our life is tied to the wellbeing of our planet .	我們的生命與地球的幸福息息息息相關 。
we depend on water , forests , deserts , oceans .	我們依賴水、森林、沙漠、海洋 。
fishing , breeding , farming are still the world's foremost human occupations .	捕魚、繁殖 , 農場仍然是世界上最頂尖的人類職業 。
and what binds us together is far greater than what divides us .	把我們結合在一起的比我們分裂還要大很多 。
we all share the same need for the earth's gifts the same wish to rise above ourselves , and become better .	我們都分享地球的禮物 , 相同的願望 , 相同的願望 , 並且變得更好 。
and yet we carry on raising walls to keep us apart .	然而 , 我們還帶著提高牆壁 , 使我們不分離 。
today our greatest battle is to protect the natural offerings of our planet .	今天 , 我們最大的戰役是保護我們星球的天然生產力 。
in less than 50 years we've altered it more thoroughly than in the entire history of mankind .	在不到五十年的時間裡 , 我們將它徹底改變 , 遠比人類歷史上人類的歷史還要嚴重 。
half of the world's forests have vanished .	世界上一半的森林消失了 。
water resources are running low .	水資源在運作低 。
intensive farming is depleting soils .	強烈的農業正在耗盡土壤 。
our energy sources are not sustainable .	我們的能源來源並不永續 。
the climate is changing .	氣候正在改變 。
we are endangering ourselves .	我們正在危害我們自己 。
we're only trying to improve our lives .	我們只想改善我們的生活 。
but the wealth gaps are growing wider .	但財富差距越來越大 。
we haven't yet understood that we're going at a much faster pace than the planet can sustain .	我們還沒了解到 , 我們的速度比地球的永續發展還要快很多 。
we know that solutions are available today .	我們知道 , 解決方案是可行的 。
we all have the power to change this trend for the better .	我們都有改變這個趨勢的力量 。
so what are we waiting for ?	那麼 , 我們在等什麼呢 ?
yab: luc besson is the producer of the movie .	yab:lucbeson是電影的製作者 。
but it is not a normal movie .	但這不是一般的電影 。
the film is going to be distributed free .	這部電影將免費分佈出去 。
this film has no copyright .	這部電影沒有版權 。
on the five of june , the environment day , everybody can download the movie on internet .	在六月的五日 , 環境日 , 每個人都可以在網路上下載這部電影 。
the film is given for free to the distributor for tv and theater to show it the fifth of june .	這部電影是免費給電視和劇院提供的 , 可以展現六月的五分之一 。
there is no business on this movie .	這部電影沒有生意 。
it is also available for school , cities , ngos and you .	它也能為學校、城市、非政府組織和你服務 。
we have to believe what we know .	我們必須相信我們所知道的 。
let me tell you something .	讓我告訴你一些事 。
it's too late to be pessimistic really too late .	實在太遲了 , 太過悲觀了 。
we have all a part of the solutions .	我們都有解決方案的一部分 。
to finish , i would like to welcome the 4 , 700th baby born since the beginning of this talk .	最後 , 我想歡迎從這場演說的開始 , 出生了4 , 700個嬰兒 。
merci beaucoup . i love you .	我很愛你 。
illustrious jugglers the raspyni brothers show off their uncanny balance , agility , coordination and willingness to sacrifice . now , if you'll just stand completely still . . .	不可思議的雜誌者 , 拉斯佩尼兄弟 , 展現他們的不平衡、友善、協調、願意犧牲 。 現在 , 如果你能完全站在完全的狀態......
collaboration , entertainment , humor , physics	合作、娛樂、幽默、物理學、物理學 。
the raspyni brothers juggle and jest	拉斯普尼兄弟會雜耍和傑西 。
dan holzman: please throw out the beanbag chairs . here we go .	丹.霍爾曼:請把全包的椅子丟出來 。 我們開始吧 。
barry friedman: there are all kinds of hightech chairs here today , but this is really , i think , when it reached its peak as far as ergonomics , comfort , design , flexibility . . .	巴瑞•弗里德曼:今天有各種高科技椅子 , 但這真的是 , 我認為 , 當它到達最高峰時 , 舒適、設計、靈活度......
dh: now obviously , this is not something we do on our regular show ; it's something we just kind of learned for this , so we're going to try . but can we have some inspirational music for the beanbag chairs ?	很顯然 , 這不是我們經常在我們的節目上做的事 ; 這是我們剛學到的 , 所以我們要試試的 。 但是我們能否為beanbag椅子做一些鼓舞人心的音樂 ?
bf: nice show , daniel , nice show . you are the man !	bf:好的節目 , 丹尼爾 , 很好的節目 , 你就是那個人 !
nice show . man , that was good !	很好的節目 。 太好了 !
bf: you know , sometimes when people do those , they go all the way down .	布:你知道 , 有時當人們做這些事時 , 他們就會一路往下走 。
you actually just did that .	其實你就是這樣做的 。
that's the kind of extra effort that's gotten us where we are today . . .	這就是我們今天所在地的額外努力 。
dh: all right , let's show them something special .	好 , 給他們看一些特別的東西 。
bf: . . . without a macarthur grant .	布:沒有馬克•格蘭德 。
yeah , look at this . you know , all kinds of different . . .	是的 , 看看這個 , 你知道的 , 各種不同......
ted is about invention , let's be honest . right ? dh: yeah , it is .	ted是關於發明 , 我們誠實吧 ? dh:是的 , 是的 。
bf: last night , michael moschen showed some juggling props he has invented and working on .	布:昨晚 , michaelmoschen展示了一些他發明的雜耍特質 。
right now , dan's going to show something he actually invented .	現在 , 丹會展示他發明的東西 。
dh: a type of juggling i actually invented , right after i saw another juggler do it .	dh:我發明了一種雜耍 , 就在我看到另一個雜耍演員的時候 。
dh: and this is a small excerpt from a longer piece .	dh:這是一段較長的一段影片 。
folks , this is shaker cup juggling . it's not a showstopper but it certainly slows it down .	各位 , 這位是shakercup雜耍 , 這不是節目表演者 , 但它確實會減緩它 。
bf: oh yeah , it does .	布魯諾:是的 , 是的 。
bf: oh , daniel .	布:喔 , 丹尼爾 。
bf: ok . dh: oh ! all right .	好 。 dh:噢 ! 好的 。
i'm now pushing my luck: i'm skipping right to six cups .	我現在在推著我的運氣:我正在滑到六個杯子的右邊 。
in order to do six cups , i must have perfect control over three with my right hand .	為了要做六個杯子 , 我一定要用我的右手做完美的控制 。
bf: also three with his left .	貝夫:還有三個 。
and now , all six cups . should i do it on the first try or should i miss once on purpose ?	現在 , 所有六個杯子 。 我應該先試試 , 還是要錯過一次用途 ?
bf: first try ? once on purpose ?	首先 , 試試看 ? 一試一試 ?
dh: how about if i try first and then decide ?	dh:如果我先試試 , 然後決定呢 ?
bf: good idea . let's leave that . we'll leave that door open .	bf:好主意 , 請留下那扇門 , 打開門 。
dh: he's looking at me .	他看著我 。
bf: that's all right , he does that . all right .	布:沒問題 , 他就這樣做 。 好 。
dh: oh ! it's time for richard's help .	哈:喔 ! 該是理查的幫忙的時候了 。
oh , good . all right .	喔 , 很好 。 好 。
bf: you know , over the years , every year at the conference , it's kind of become a tradition for us to do something dangerous with richard . and we've always done something with the bullwhips in our act . it's funny , for years i did it with daniel holding balloons .	多年來 , 在研討會上 , 這有點像是個傳統 , 用理查來做一些危險的事 。 我們一直在做一些事 , 用我們的行為 , 布萊普斯 。 很有趣的是 , 我用丹尼爾拿著氣球來做 。
and then we thought , " how stupid . "	然後我們想: 「 多麼愚蠢 。 」
dh: excuse me , could we work on the design of the microphone ?	不好意思 , 我們能否設計麥克風 ?
bf: i think that's the next session .	布:我覺得這是下一場演說 。
bf: yeah . and so we've actually found a way to incorporate richard in this .	布魯諾:是的 。 我們已經找到了一個方法 , 將理查納入其中 。
he actually assumes more of the danger in this .	實際上 , 他認為它的危險性更高 。
dh: please stand up , richard .	請站起來 , 理查 。
dh: now richard , please . . .	謝:現在 , 理查 , 請......
bf: ok , sorry .	好 , 抱歉 。
dh: jesus christ . richard , please stand in front of me .	耶穌基督 。 理查 , 請站在我面前 。
richard wurman: can i say something ?	理查沃爾曼:我能說些什麼嗎 ?
rw: in all past years i've rehearsed with them , the things that have happened to me i have no idea what's going to happen and that's the truth .	烏爾曼:在過去幾年裡 , 我和他們在一起 , 發生在我身上的事 , 我不知道會發生什麼事 , 那是真相 。
dh: all right , please stand here in front . . .	好 , 請站在前面......
god , i hate that . put your hands out like this , please .	上帝 , 我討厭這一點 , 請把你的手伸出來 。
bf: no , come stay up with him .	不 , 來跟他在一起 。
dan used to actually hold them but now he's got you for protection .	丹曾經幫他們做事 , 但現在他要你做保護 。
it's kind of neat . ok .	聽起來有點好玩 。 好 。
dh: wow , you've been working out .	哇 , 你已經成功了 。
bf: no , shut up !	不 , 閉嘴 !
having a little bit of richard time . that's nice , that's good .	有一點理查的時間 , 很好 , 很好 。
ok , here we go .	好 , 我們開始吧 。
have him hold your wrist so i can . . .	請他舉起手腕 , 我可以...
dh: please hold my wrist , will you . bf: yeah , hold this a minute .	請舉手 , 請舉手 。 bf:是的 , 握一下這一分鐘 。
ok , hold on .	好 , 等等 。
bf: all those midyear phone calls are coming back to me now , richard .	布:所有的中年電話都回來給我 , 理查德 。
dh: so richard , what were we on the list ? like 1 , 020 ?	理查德:我們在列表上有什麼 ? 例如1 , 020 ?
bf: i think we were just outside .	布:我想我們就在外面了 。
dh: sorry . bf: having some bad flashbacks .	抱歉 , bf:有一些不好的閃光 。
rw: do you want me to hold you or not ? dh: don't hold me that hard .	烏爾曼:你要我抱住你嗎 ? 丹:不要抱住我 。
bf: here we go , i'm taking it .	布魯諾:我們來了 , 我就拿走了 。
dh: one more , one more .	再一次 , 再一次 。
bf: we've got one more we're going to do .	布:我們還有另外一個我們要做的 。
rw: do i get to hold them ?	烏爾曼:我能拿它們嗎 ?
bf: you don't want to hold these , trust me .	布:你不想堅持這些 , 相信我 。
dh: could you spread your legs a little bit ?	大衛:你能不能把你的腿分散一點點嗎 ?
bf: gloria , you want to do it ? it's very cool .	布:gloria , 你想做嗎 ? 很酷 。
one more try . man , i don't want to get too close .	再試一試 。 老兄 , 我不想太靠近 。
could you just push that ?	你能不能把它推開來嗎 ?
dh: wow ! boy !	哇 ! 天啊 !
bf: that's cool . i always wanted to try that .	布:那很酷 。 我一直都想要試試 。
dh: let's jump this way , though .	不過 , 讓我們以這種方式跳躍 。
now , we risked richard's life , it's only fair we risk our own lives .	現在 , 我們冒險了richard的生命 , 我們只冒著自己的生命危險 。
so to do that , i will juggle these three razorsharp sickles .	為了做到這一點 , 我會把這三隻老鼠的生病拿出來 。
and if that wasn't enough , and judging by your response , it's not . . .	如果這還不夠 , 根據你的回應 , 那就不是......
dh: wow ! bf: hoping for a little more build .	哇 ! bf:希望再多建造一點 。
dh: true . barry . . .	沒錯 , 巴瑞......
bf: i'm going to run up behind him .	布:我要跑到他後面 。
dh: leap over my shoulder .	講者:跳過我的肩膀 。
bf: up and over his shoulders .	布:挺身而過他的肩膀 。
dh: grab the blades in midair , land right there in a pool of blood . . .	大衛:抓住中間的爆炸 , 地點在一堆血液中 。
impossible , you say ?	你說 , 不可能嗎 ?
bf: incredible , you say ?	很不可思議吧 ?
dh: why bother , you say ?	你說 , 為何麻煩 ?
bf: here we go .	布:我們來吧 。
dh: just do it juggler boys , you say ?	妳說 , 妳說嗎 ?
bf: this guy , this guy invented air .	布:這個傢伙發明了空氣 。
dh: i think so , that's right .	我認為 , 沒錯 。
bf: he invented the pencil .	布:他發明了鉛筆
dh: all right , we'll do this trick , but please remember it took us over 10 years to perfect .	沒錯 , 我們會這樣做 , 但請記住我們花了十年才完美 。
bf: ten years to perfect , which you're about to see .	布:十年到完美 , 你即將看到的 。
dh: it's not that difficult , we just don't like to practice that much .	沒那麼難 , 我們只是不太喜歡練習 。
bf: no , it's a hassle . traveling too much .	布:不 , 它是有的 。 太多旅行 。
actually , we will take a second to prove this could be fake that the blades are indeed razorsharp .	事實上 , 我們要花一秒鐘才能證明這可能是假的 , 那些怪物的確是狂犬病 。
dh: will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage ?	有人願意把一個小小的農場動物丟到舞台上嗎 ?
or a virgin for a sacrifice ?	或是犧牲的處女 ?
bf: no , she's got . . . farm animal .	布:不 , 她有......農場動物 。
dh: do you have a small farm animal ?	你有一隻小小的農場動物嗎 ?
just trying to play the odds . all right , here we go .	只是試著播放機率 。 好 , 我們開始了 。
bf: over the top , over the top .	bf:在頂端 , 在頂端 。
dh: how you feeling , barry ? you feeling all right ?	你感覺如何 , 巴瑞 ? 你感覺好嗎 ?
bf: yeah , it's all right .	沒錯 , 沒錯 。
dh: do you feel everything's ok ? the atmosphere , the . . .	你覺得一切好嗎 ? 大氣層 , ...
bf: yeah , a little sketchy .	布:是的 , 一個小小的草圖 。
dh: everything up here's ok ?	觀眾:一切都沒問題嗎 ?
dh: then here we go .	接著 , 我們來了 。
bf: this one's a little . . . who's doing the lights ? could you point that a little more directly into my eyeballs ? is that possible ? i can still see a little .	布:這隻小......誰在做燈光 ? 能否更直接地指向我的眼球 ? 有可能嗎 ? 我還是能看到一點點 。
dh: and turn up the intensity ; we're still pink in the middle .	高:調高強度 , 我們仍在中間的粉紅色 。
we went too far .	我們走得太遠了 。
bf: yeah , it's too far . it's too much of a visual .	布:是的 , 太遠了 , 太多視覺了 。
the design of the body is a whole different thing .	身體的設計是完全不同的 。
dh: ready , barry ? bf: over the top .	準備好了 , 巴瑞 ? 貝夫:在頂端 。
dh: may we have our jumping music please ?	哈:我們是否有跳躍音樂嗎 ?
may we have it a bit louder ?	我們可能有點大聲嗎 ?
bf: they're a good crew ! whoa !	布:他們是個好的傢伙 ! 哇 !
dh: whoa , sorry . all right .	噢 , 抱歉 , 沒錯 。
bf: we're going on .	布:我們正在努力 。
dh: all right , we'll try again .	好 , 我們再試一次 。
bf: all right ? oh my gosh . oh .	布:好嗎 ? 喔 , 天啊 !
dh: all right , here we go . sorry about that .	好的 , 來吧 , 抱歉 。
bf: i thought i had the hard part . ok .	布魯諾:我覺得我很辛苦 。 好 。
dh: whenever you're ready .	不論你何時準備好 。
bf: there we go !	布魯諾:我們來了 !
all right , get up ! come on and dance ! dh: dance , come on . bf: come on and dance !	好 , 上吧 ! 跳吧 ! 跳吧 ! 舞 , 跳吧 ! 快點 , 跳吧 !
somebody dance ! come on !	有人跳舞 ! 拜託 !
wow , wow , ok , stop .	哇 , 哇 , 好 , 停下來 。
weird , no one dances . we're two guys doing this .	很奇怪 , 沒有人跳舞 , 我們有兩個人這樣做 。
i think that's uncomfortable for everyone .	我認為這對每個人來說是不舒服的 。
dh: the french judge . . .	法國的法官......
bf: one more quick thing .	再簡單一點 。
dh: the french judge gives it a 5 . 2 .	法國法官給了5.2 。
bf: well , you know . . .	布:嗯 , 你知道的 ,
dh: there you go . . . bf: oh , yeah . another one coming in .	沒錯 , 再來一個 。
dh: tell them about our bio and stuff .	dh:告訴他們我們的生物和東西 。
bf: yeah . in our bio , some of you may have read that we've won two world juggling championships .	布魯諾:是的 。 在我們的生物中 , 有些人可能已經讀過我們贏了兩個世界雜耍冠軍 。
and believe it or not , you don't win juggling champions for doing things with bullwhips or shaker cups .	信不信由你 , 你不會贏得雜耍冠軍 , 用布爾威普斯或莎士頓杯來做事 。
we're going to show you right now an excerpt from a routine that we used to wipe out the other juggling team competition .	我們現在要向你們展示一個從我們以前用來擦除其他雜耍團隊的團隊比賽 。
dh: i know what you're thinking: other juggling teams must really suck .	dh:我知道你在想什麼:其他雜耍團隊一定會很糟 。
bf: juggling's got a bad rap .	布:朱格林有不好的強暴 。
dh: but wait , barry , there's still one more club lying there by my foot .	沒錯 , 等等 , 我腳上還有一根俱樂部 。
and look , it has a twin !	看 , 它有雙胞胎 !
dh: there's still one more by my foot .	多:我的腳仍然有一根 。
what do you want me to do with it ?	你希望我用它做什麼 ?
bf: richard you tell him , it's your last year .	bf:理查你告訴他 , 這是你去年的事 。
dh: that's a pretty good setup , richard .	理查德:這是個非常好的設定 。
bf: yeah , it's a good setup . that's a big setup .	布:是的 , 這是一個好的設定 。 這是個大架構 。
dh: you can't get any better than that . all right . what i will do: i will use my pantherlike reflexes .	沒辦法比這更好 。 好的 , 我要做的是:我會用像我一樣的胰島素反射 。
dh: i got that to reach down and grab that club in my grip of steel .	dh:我拿到了那條線 , 抓住那條線 , 抓住我的鋼鐵 。
dh: i touched it , barry . that should be enough .	哈:我碰到它 , 巴瑞 , 那應該夠好 。
bf: it's progress , that's the thing .	布:這是進步 , 重點是 。
dh: how about that ? i'll do it again .	怎麼樣 ? 我再做一次 。
oh wait , it's on your side , barry .	喔 , 等等 , 在你的側邊 , 巴瑞 。
and it's awfully windy over there .	那裡的風力很大 。
bf: it is , it's weird . you wouldn't think it would affect half the stage , but it is . it's weird .	布:很奇怪 , 你不會覺得它會影響到半個階段 , 但它是很奇怪的 。
watch this: what i'm going to do is slide the seventh one onto my foot .	看一下:我要把第七張投影片放到我的腳上 。
dh: wow ! what a great trick , barry !	太棒了 ! 太棒了 ! 太棒了 !
oh , look how it lies there .	喔 , 看看它是怎麼存在的 。
oh , barry , is there nothing you can't do ?	喔 , 巴瑞 , 你做不到什麼嗎 ?
you are my hero . you're my jim shea , jr .	你是我的英雄 , 你是我的吉姆希亞 , 吉爾 。
bf: from my foot , i'll attempt to kick the seventh club . here we go .	布:從我的腳 , 我試著踢七根俱樂部 。 來吧 。
dh: where , barry ? where ? tell us , barry .	巴瑞:哪裡 ? 哪裡 ? 告訴我們 , 巴瑞 。
[unclear] eagerly awaits your next syllable . what will it be ?	[不清楚][不清楚]你接下來會怎麼樣 ?
what gem of knowledge ?	什麼樣的知識 ?
what pearl of wisdom ?	有什麼珍貴的智慧 ?
do you want to buy a vowel , barry ?	你想買個誓言嗎 ?
is that your final answer ?	你的最後一個答案是嗎 ?
bf: all right ! you have to turn off the tv from time to time .	布魯諾:好的 ! 你得從時間到現在關掉電視 。
dh: i do , i do .	講者:我是這樣 。
bf: from my foot , the kick up in the seven .	布:從我的腳 , 直到7歲 。
dh: we will juggle seven .	dh:我們會搞七個 。
bf: from six to seven . dh: that's a world's record . bf: really ? dh: for us .	bf:從六到七 。 dh:這是世界紀錄 。 b:真的嗎 ? dh:對我們來說 。
dh: whenever you're ready there , big guy .	不管你準備好了 , 大傢伙 。
put your tongue away , barry .	把你的舌頭放開 , 巴瑞 。
bf: oh , oh , whoa .	噢 , 噢 , 哇 !
dh: please , please stay seated . stay seated . thank you .	拜託 , 請留下 , 留下 。 謝謝 。
because now , to make this twice as difficult , we'll juggle the seven clubs back . . .	因為現在 , 要讓這兩倍的困難 , 我們要回去七個俱樂部......
dh: . . . to back .	老天 , 回來 。
bf: thank you , that's it .	布:謝謝你 , 就是這樣 。
bf: thank you guys !	布:謝謝你們 !
dh: thank you very much !	非常謝謝你 !
in this accessible talk from tedxboston , richard resnick shows how cheap and fast genome sequencing is about to turn health care upside down .	在tedxboston的這場演說中 , 理查.雷尼克顯示出 , 健康照護將如何降低 。
dna , biotech , health care , science , technology	dna、生物科技、健康照護、科學、技術、技術 。
richard resnick: welcome to the genomic revolution	理查.雷斯尼克:歡迎來到基因體革命 。
ladies and gentlemen , i present to you the human genome .	各位先生女士 , 我向你們展示人類基因組 。
chromosome one , top left .	染色體是左上角 。
bottom right are the sex chromosomes .	右下角是性染色體 。
women have two copies of that big x chromosome ; men have the x and , of course , that small copy of the y .	女性有兩份大x染色體的複製品 ; 男性有x , 當然 , 小型y的複製品 。
sorry boys , but it's just a tiny little thing that makes you different .	很抱歉的男孩 , 但這只是一個小小的小東西 , 讓你有所不同 。
so if you zoom in on this genome , then what you see , of course , is this double helix structure the code of life spelled out with these four biochemical letters , or we call them bases , right: a , c , g and t .	所以 , 如果你放大這個基因組 , 你可以看到 , 這雙螺旋結構 , 生命的編碼是這四個生物化學字母的編碼 , 或者我們稱它們為基礎:a、c、g和t 。
how many are there in the human genome ? three billion .	人類基因組中有多少人 ? 30億人 。
is that a big number ?	這是個大數字嗎 ?
well , everybody can throw around big numbers .	嗯 , 每個人都可以在大數字中丟下 。
but in fact , if i were to place one base on each pixel of this 1280 by 800 resolution screen , we would need 3 , 000 screens to take a look at the genome .	但事實上 , 如果我把一個像素放在這個1280到800個解析度螢幕上 , 我們就需要3000個螢幕來觀察基因組 。
so it's really quite big .	這真的很大 。
and perhaps because of its size , a group of people all , by the way , with y chromosomes decided they would want to sequence it .	或許是因為它的大小 , 一群人 , 順便一提 , y染色體決定要定序 。
and so 15 years , actually , and about four billion dollars later , the genome was sequenced and published .	事實上 , 15年後 , 大約40億美金 , 基因組是序列和出版的 。
in 2003 , the final version was published , and they keep working on it .	在2003年 , 最後一個版本出版了 , 他們一直在做這件事 。
that was all done on a machine that looks like this .	這些都是在機器上完成的 , 看起來像這樣 。
it costs about a dollar for each base a very slow way of doing it .	它的成本是每一塊錢--一個非常緩慢的做法 。
well folks , i'm here to tell you that the world has completely changed and none of you know about it .	嗯 , 各位 , 我來這裡告訴你們 , 世界已經完全改變了 , 你們都不知道 。
so now what we do is we take a genome , we make maybe 50 copies of it , we cut all those copies up into little 50base reads , and then we sequence them , massively parallel .	我們現在做的是將基因組做五十個複製 , 我們把這些複製片切成五十個棒子 , 然後我們將它們定序 , 大量的平行 。
and then we bring that into software , and we reassemble it and we tell you what the story is .	然後我們把這個帶到軟體中 , 重新組合它 , 告訴各位故事是什麼 。
and so just to give you a picture of what this looks like , the human genome project: 3 gigabases , right .	所以 , 為了給你一張圖片 , 人類基因組計劃:3gabes , 沒錯 。
one run on one of these machines: 200 gigabases in a week .	一台運行在其中一台機器上:每週200個gbases 。
and that 200 is going to change to 600 this summer , and there's no sign of this pace slowing .	今年夏天將要改變600個 , 沒有這種速度慢下來的跡象 。
so the price of a base , to sequence a base , has fallen 100 million times .	所以 , 基礎的代價 , 將基礎序列列列定序 , 總共有一億次 。
that's the equivalent of you filling up your car with gas in 1998 , waiting until 2011 , and now you can drive to jupiter and back twice .	相當於你在1998年填滿車子 , 等到2011年 , 等到2011年 , 你就可以駕駛到木星和兩倍 。
world population , pc placements , the archive of all the medical literature , moore's law , the old way of sequencing , and here's all the new stuff .	世界人口、pc位置、醫學文獻的檔案、摩爾定律、古老的定序方式 , 等等都是新東西 。
guys , this is a log scale ; you don't typically see lines that go up like that .	各位 , 這是個邏輯尺度 ; 你通常不會看到像這樣的線條 。
so the worldwide capacity to sequence human genomes is something like 50 , 000 to 100 , 000 human genomes this year .	所以 , 世界各地的基因序列 , 今年大約有五萬到十萬個人類基因組 。
and we know this based on the machines that are being placed .	而我們知道這一點 , 基於已被放置的機器 。
this is expected to double , triple or maybe quadruple year over year for the foreseeable future .	這是預期兩倍、三倍或四倍的一年 , 預計未來是可預見的 。
in fact , there's one lab in particular that represents 20 percent of all that capacity .	事實上 , 有一個實驗室代表了百分之二十的能力 。
it's called the beijing genomics institute .	它叫做北京基因學研究所 。
the chinese are absolutely winning this race to the new moon , by the way .	順道一提 , 中國在新月球上贏得了這場比賽 。
what does this mean for medicine ?	這對醫學的意義是什麼 ?
so a woman is age 37 .	一個女人是37歲 。
she presents with stage 2 estrogen receptorpositive breast cancer .	她展示了階段2個雌激素接受性乳癌 。
she is treated with surgery , chemotherapy and radiation .	她接受手術治療 , 化療和放射性治療 。
two years later , she comes back with stage three c ovarian cancer .	兩年後 , 她帶著三階段的卵巢癌回來 。
unfortunately , treated again with surgery and chemotherapy .	不幸的是 , 再一次用手術和化療治療來治療 。
she comes back three years later at age 42 with more ovarian cancer , more chemotherapy .	三年後 , 她在42歲時回來 , 更有卵巢癌 , 更有化療 。
six months later , she comes back with acute myeloid leukemia .	六個月後 , 她回來時 , 帶著急性的白血病回來 。
she goes into respiratory failure and dies eight days later .	八天後 , 她走進呼吸道失敗 。
so first , the way in which this woman was treated , in as little as 10 years , will look like bloodletting .	首先 , 這位女士被治療的過程 , 大約十年後 , 會看起來像血管一樣 。
and it's because of people like my colleague , rick wilson , at the genome institute at washington university , who decided to take a look at this woman postmortem .	那是因為像我同事rickwilson這樣的人 , 在華盛頓大學的基因組研究所 , 她決定要看看這位女子後期 。
and he sequenced , he took skin cells , healthy skin , and cancerous bone marrow , and he sequenced the whole genomes of both of them in a couple of weeks , no big deal .	他將皮膚細胞、健康的皮膚和癌症的骨髓序列序列列列列 , 兩者的基因組數週內 , 沒有大的交易 。
and then he compared those two genomes in software , and what he found , among other things , was a deletion , a 2 , 000base deletion across three billion bases in a particular gene called tp53 .	然後他把這兩組基因組做比較 , 他發現 , 其中有一組廢棄物 , 一個2 , 000個鹼基在一個叫做tp53的基因中 , 一個叫做tp53的基因 。
if you have this deleterious mutation in this gene , you're 90 percent likely to get cancer in your life .	如果你的基因中有這種嚴重的突變 , 你有90%的可能罹患癌症 。
so unfortunately , this doesn't help this woman , but it does have severe , profound if you will , implications to her family .	不幸的是 , 這並不幫助這位女士 , 但如果你願意的話 , 它的確是嚴重的 , 深刻的影響她的家人 。
i mean , if they have the same mutation , and they get this genetic test , and they understand it , then they can go and get regular screens , and they can catch cancer early and potentially live a significantly longer life .	我的意思是 , 如果他們有同樣的突變 , 他們得到了這個基因測試 , 然後他們了解它 , 那麼他們就可以得到一般的篩檢 , 他們可以早期發現癌症 , 可能活得更長壽 。
let me introduce you now to the beery twins , diagnosed with cerebral palsy at the age of two .	讓我向各位介紹beerywins , 診斷出brebralpalsy的年齡 。
their mom is a very brave woman who didn't believe that the symptoms weren't matching up , and through some heroic efforts and a lot of internet searching , she was able to convince the medical community that , in fact , they had something else .	他們的母親是一位非常勇敢的女性 , 不相信症狀不適合 , 透過一些英雄的努力和網路搜尋 , 她能夠說服醫學社群 , 事實上 , 他們也有別的 。
what they had was doparesponsive dystonia .	他們所擁有的 , 是多麼的反應性失調症 。
and so they were given ldopa , and their symptoms did improve , but they weren't totally asymptomatic .	所以他們被賦予了 「 ldopa 」 , 他們的症狀確實改善了 , 但他們並非完全的症狀 。
turns out the gentleman in this picture is a guy named joe beery , who was lucky enough to be the cio of a company called life technologies .	這張照片的先生是一位叫joebery的傢伙 , 他很幸運能成為一家叫做生命科技的公司 。
they're one of the two companies that makes these massive whole genome sequencing tools .	它們是兩家公司之一 , 製造這些龐大的基因組定序工具 。
and so what he did was he got his kids sequenced .	所以他做的是 , 他拿到了他的孩子的序列 。
and what they found was a series of mutations in a gene called spr , which is responsible for producing serotonin , among other things .	他們發現一系列的突變 , 叫做 「 春天 」 , 負責製造血清素 , 及其它東西 。
so on top of ldopa , they gave these kids a serotonin precursor drug , and they're effectively normal now .	所以 , 在德opa的頂端 , 他們給了這些孩子一個血清素前的藥 , 他們現在是正常的 。
guys , this would never have happened without whole genome sequencing .	沒有完整的基因序列 , 這絕對不會發生 。
and at the time this was a few years ago it cost $100 , 000 .	當時是幾年前 , 它花了十萬美金 。
today it's $10 , 000 . next year it's $1 , 000 .	今天是一萬元 。 明年是一千元 。
the year after it's $100 , give or take a year .	一百元以後的一年 , 給予一年 。
that's how fast this is moving .	速度就是這麼快 。
so here's little nick likes batman and squirt guns .	這裡有小小的尼克 , 像是蝙蝠俠和松鼠槍 。
and it turns out nick shows up at the children's hospital with this distended belly like a famine victim .	結果發現 , 尼克出現在兒童醫院 , 這種異常的肚子 , 像是一個飢荒的受害者 。
and it's not that he's not eating , it's that when he eats , his intestine basically opens up and feces spill out into his gut .	不是說他不吃東西 , 而是當他吃東西時 , 他的腸道基本上就打開了 , 進到腸道裡 。
so a hundred surgeries later , he looks at his mom and says , " mom , please pray for me . i'm in so much pain . "	一百個手術後 , 他看著他的媽媽說: 「 媽 , 請為我禱告 。 我真的很痛 。 」
his pediatrician happens to have a background in clinical genetics and he has no idea what's going on , but he says , " let's get this kid's genome sequenced . "	他的小兒科醫生剛好有臨床遺傳學的背景 , 他不知道發生什麼事 , 但他說: 「 咱們來取得這個孩子的基因序列 。 」
and what they find is a singlepoint mutation in a gene responsible for controlling programmed cell death .	他們發現一個單一的基因突變 , 負責控制細胞死亡的基因 。
so the theory is that he's having some immunological reaction to what's going on to the food essentially , and that's a natural reaction , which causes some programmed cell death .	所以 , 理論是 , 他有一些免疫反應 , 基本上對食物的影響 , 這是天然的反應 , 導致一些細胞死亡 。
but the gene that regulates that down is broken .	但控制下的基因是壞掉的 。
and so this informs , among other things , of course , a treatment for bone marrow transplant , which he undertakes .	所以 , 這種資訊 , 當然 , 對於骨髓移植的治療 , 這種治療方式 , 是他所做的 。
and after nine months of grueling recovery , he's now eating steak with a1 sauce .	經過九個月的苦難復原後 , 他現在正在吃牛排 , 拿著一塊醬 。
the prospect of using the genome as a universal diagnostic is upon us today .	利用基因組作為普遍診斷的前景 , 就是今天我們 。
today , it's here .	今天 , 它就在這裡 。
and what it means for all of us is that everybody in this room could live an extra five , 10 , 20 years just because of this one thing .	對我們所有人來說 , 這意味著 , 在這間房間裡的每個人都可以過5、10、20年 , 只是因為這一件事而已 。
which is a fantastic story , unless you think about humanity's footprint on the planet and our ability to keep up food production .	這是個很棒的故事 , 除非你在地球上想出人類的足跡 , 以及我們能維持糧食生產的能力 。
so it turns out that the very same technology is also being used to grow new lines of corn , wheat , soybean and other crops that are highly tolerant of drought , of flood , of pests and pesticides .	結果發現 , 同樣的技術也被用來種植玉米、小麥、黃豆和其他農作物 , 高度包含乾旱、洪水、殺蟲劑和殺蟲劑 。
now look , as long as we continue to increase the population , we're going to have to continue to grow and eat genetically modified foods , and that's the only position that i'll take today .	仔細看 , 只要我們繼續增加人口 , 我們就得繼續生長和吃基因改造的食物 , 這是我今天唯一要吃的位置 。
unless there's anybody in the audience that would like to volunteer to stop eating ?	除非在觀眾席中有人想要自願不再吃東西 ?
none , not one .	沒有人 , 沒有人 。
this is a typewriter , a staple of every desktop for decades .	這是一台打字機 , 數十年來 , 每台桌面的釘子 。
and in fact , the typewriter was essentially deleted by this thing .	事實上 , 打字機基本上被這個東西刪除 。
and then more general versions of word processors came about .	接著 , 更廣泛的詞彙處理器就來了 。
but ultimately , it was a disruption on top of a disruption .	但最終 , 它是干擾的上方 。
it was bob metcalfe inventing the ethernet and the connection of all these computers that fundamentally changed everything .	它是bbobmefe發明了ethernet和這些電腦的連結 , 基本上改變了一切 。
and suddenly we had netscape , and we had yahoo and we had , indeed , the entire dotcom bubble .	突然間 , 我們有了netscape , 我們有了yahoo , 沒錯 , 整個網路泡泡 。
not to worry though , that was quickly rescued by the ipod , facebook and , indeed , angry birds .	不用擔心 , 這很快就被ipod、臉書和憤怒鳥拯救了 。
look , this is where we are today .	看 , 這就是我們今天的目的 。
this is the genomic revolution today . this is where we are .	這是今天的基因體革命 。 這是我們所在之處 。
so what i'd like you to consider is: what does it mean when these dots don't represent the individual bases of your genome , but they connect to genomes all across the planet ?	所以 , 我希望你們考慮的是:當這些點並不代表你的基因組的個別基礎 , 但它們與地球各地的基因組連結在一起 , 會是什麼意思 ?
so i just recently had to buy life insurance .	所以最近我得要買保險 。
and i was required to answer: a . i have never had a genetic test , b . i've had one , here you go , and c . i've had one and i'm not telling .	我被要求回答:a.我從來沒有一個基因測試b.我有一個 , 先說c.我有一個--我沒有告訴你們
thankfully , i was able to answer a , and i say that honestly in case my life insurance agent is listening .	謝天謝地 , 我能回答一個 , 老實說 , 我的人生保險經常在聆聽 。
but what would have happened if i had said c ?	但如果我說c , 會發生什麼事 ?
consumer applications for genomics , they will flourish .	基因組學的消費者應用 , 它們會蓬勃發展 。
do you want to see whether you're genetically compatible with your girlfriend ? sure .	你想知道你是否和你的女朋友在基因上有關係嗎 ? 當然 。
dna sequencing on your iphone ? there's an app for that .	dna在你的iphone上定序 ? 有一個應用程式 。
personalized genomic massage anyone ?	個人化的基因質量嗎 ?
there's already a lab today that tests for allele 334 of the avpr1 gene , the socalled cheating gene .	今日已經有一個實驗室 , 針對維普爾1基因的艾倫.334個基因 , 所謂的作弊基因 。
so anybody who's here today with your significant other , just turn over to them and swab their mouth , send it to the lab and you'll know for sure .	所以 , 今天任何在場的人都很明顯地 , 只要轉向他們 , 腫脹他們的嘴巴 , 將它送到實驗室 , 你肯定會知道 。
do you really want to elect a president whose genome suggests cardiomyopathy ?	你真的想選一個總統 , 誰的基因組建議是心肌病 ?
now think of it , it's 2016 and the leading candidate releases not only her four years of back tax returns , but also her personal genome .	想想看 , 它是2016年 , 領導候選人會釋放她四年的稅收 , 同時也是她的個人基因組 。
and it looks really good .	看起來真的很棒 。
and then she challenges all of her competitors to do the same .	然後她挑戰所有她的競爭對手去做同樣的事 。
do you think that's not going to happen ?	你認為這不會發生嗎 ?
do you think it would have helped john mccain ?	你認為這會幫助johnmccain ?
how many people in the audience have the last name resnick like me ? raise your hand .	觀眾中有多少人 , 像我一樣的最後一個名字 ? 舉手 。
typically , there's one or two .	一般來說 , 有一或兩種 。
so my father's father was one of 10 resnick brothers .	我父親的父親是十個resnick兄弟之一 。
they all hated each other .	他們都討厭彼此 。
and they all moved to different parts of the planet .	它們都搬到地球的各個角落 。
so it's likely that i'm related to every resnick that i ever meet , but i don't know .	所以 , 很可能我和我所見過的每一家resnick有關係 , 但我不知道 。
but imagine if my genome were deidentified , sitting in software , and a third cousin's genome was also sitting there , and there was software that could compare these two and make these associations .	但想像一下 , 如果我的基因被定位 , 坐在軟體中 , 第三個表親的基因組就在那裡 , 軟體可以比較這兩者 , 做出這些聯繫 。
not hard to imagine . my company has software that does this right now .	難以想像 。 我的公司現在有軟體 。
and so imagine one more thing: that that software is able to ask both parties for mutual consents , " would you be willing to meet your third cousin ? "	再想像一件事:軟體可以要求兩黨都要同意 , 「 你願意和你的第三位表兄弟見面嗎 ? 」
and if we both say yes , voila ! welcome to chromosomally linkedin .	如果我們都說是的 , voila ! 歡迎來到染色體的連結 。
now this is probably a good thing , right ?	這可能是件好事 , 對吧 ?
you have bigger clan gatherings and so on .	你有更大的集會等等 。
but maybe it's a bad thing as well .	但也許這也是個壞事 。
how many fathers in the room ? raise your hands .	房間裡有多少父親 ? 請舉手 。
okay , so experts think that one to three percent of you are not actually the father of your child .	好的 , 專家認為 , 百分之三的人其實不是你孩子的父親 。
look these genomes , these 23 chromosomes , they don't in any way represent the quality of our relationships or the nature of our society at least not yet .	看看這些基因組 , 這23個染色體 , 它們沒有任何意義 , 代表我們的關係和社會的品質 , 至少目前還沒有 。
and like any new technology , it's really in humanity's hands to wield it for the betterment of mankind , or not .	和任何新科技一樣 , 在人類的手中 , 真的是為了人類的好處 , 或不是這樣 。
and so i urge you all to wake up and to tune in and to influence the genomic revolution that's happening all around you .	所以 , 我鼓勵大家起床 , 來影響你周遭發生的基因革命 。
daniel kraft demos his marrow miner a new device that quickly harvests lifesaving bone marrow with minimal pain to the donor . he emphasizes that the adult stem cells found in bone marrow can be used to treat many terminal conditions , from parkinson's to heart disease .	danielkraft展示他的骨髓 , 一個新的裝置 , 很快就收集了生命的骨髓 , 和捐贈者的最少疼痛 。 他強調 , 骨髓中的成年幹細胞可以用來治療許多臨界條件 , 從巴金森氏症到心臟病 。
biology , biotech , health , health care , medicine , science , technology	生物科技、生物科技、健康照護、醫療、醫學、科學、科技、科技、技術 。
daniel kraft invents a better way to harvest bone marrow	丹尼爾克拉夫發明了更好的方式來收集骨髓 。
so i am a pediatric cancer doctor and stemcell researcher at stanford university where my clinical focus has been bone marrow transplantation .	我是一位小兒科癌症的醫生和史丹佛大學的史丹佛大學的研究者 , 我的臨床專注是骨髓移植 。
now , inspired by jill bolte taylor last year , i didn't bring a human brain , but i did bring a liter of bone marrow .	去年 , 吉爾•布爾特泰勒的啟發 , 我並沒有帶人類的大腦 , 但我真的帶了一公升的骨髓 。
and bone marrow is actually what we use to save the lives of tens of thousands of patients , most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphoma and some other diseases .	骨髓其實是我們用來拯救數萬名病患的生命 , 大部分先進的惡性腫瘤 , 例如白血病、淋巴瘤和其他疾病 。
so , a few years ago , i'm doing my transplant fellowship at stanford .	幾年前 , 我在史丹佛大學進行移植 。
i'm in the operating room . we have bob here , who is a volunteer donor .	我在手術室 , 這裡有bob , 他是志工捐贈者 。
we're sending his marrow across the country to save the life of a child with leukemia .	我們把他的骨髓送到全國 , 來拯救一個患有白血病的孩子 。
so actually how do we harvest this bone marrow ?	所以 , 我們該如何收集這些骨髓呢 ?
well we have a whole o . r . team , general anesthesia , nurses , and another doctor across from me .	我們有一整個o.r.r.團隊 , 普遍麻醉、護士 , 以及另一位醫生 。
bob's on the table , and we take this sort of small needle , you know , not too big .	巴布在桌上 , 我們拿著這個小針 , 你知道的 , 不太大 。
and the way we do this is we basically place this through the soft tissue , and kind of punch it into the hard bone , into the tuchus that's a technical term and aspirate about 10 mls of bone marrow out , each time , with a syringe .	我們的做法基本上就是透過軟組織把這個放進硬骨裡 , 把它放進圖中 , 一個技術術語 , 每次都會用針筒來刺激10磅的骨髓 。
and hand it off to the nurse . she squirts it into a tin .	把它交給護士 , 她將它安靜到一個小小的房間裡 。
hands it back to me . and we do that again and again .	把它交給我 , 我們再次這樣做 。
about 200 times usually .	通常是兩百次 。
and by the end of this my arm is sore , i've got a callus on my hand , let alone bob , whose rear end looks something more like this , like swiss cheese .	我的手臂的尾端是索爾 , 我手上有一通電話 , 更別說鮑勃 , 他的耳朵看起來像這樣 , 像是瑞士起士 。
so i'm thinking , you know , this procedure hasn't changed in about 40 years .	所以我在想 , 這種手術在40年內並沒有改變 。
and there is probably a better way to do this .	這樣做可能有更好的方法 。
so i thought of a minimally invasive approach , and a new device that we call the marrow miner .	所以我想到一個極度侵入式的方法 , 一個我們稱之為 「 骨髓礦工 」 的新裝置 。
and the marrow miner , the way it works is shown here .	標記礦工是這樣運作的 。
our standard seethrough patient .	我們的標準分裂患者 。
instead of entering the bone dozens of times , we enter just once , into the front of the hip or the back of the hip .	與其進入骨頭幾十次 , 我們進入了一次 , 進入髖部或臀部的前面 。
and we have a flexible , powered catheter with a special wire loop tip that stays inside the crunchy part of the marrow and follows the contours of the hip , as it moves around .	我們有一個彈性、強大的導管 , 帶著一個特殊的迴圈尖 , 留在 「 三月 」 中 , 追隨 「 髖部 」 的路徑 , 隨著它四處移動 。
so it enables you to very rapidly aspirate , or suck out , rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole .	所以它能讓你非常快速地吸引人或吸引人的骨髓 , 非常迅速地穿過一個洞 。
we can do multiple passes through that same entry .	我們可以通過同樣的入口 , 做多重 。
and , so , very quickly , bob can just get one puncture , local anesthesia , and do this harvest as an outpatient .	所以 , 很快的 , 鮑勃就能得到一個懲罰 , 當地的麻醉 , 並把這些收穫當作一個廣告 。
so i did a few prototypes . i got a small little grant at stanford .	所以我做了幾個原型 。 我在史丹佛大學拿了個小小的補丁 。
and played around with this a little bit .	玩一下這個 。
and our team members developed this technology .	我們的團隊成員開發了這項技術 。
and eventually we got two large animals , and pig studies .	最後我們有兩個大型動物和豬研究 。
and we found , to our surprise , that we not only got bone marrow out , but we got 10 times the stem cell activity in the marrow from the marrow miner , compared to the normal device .	我們發現 , 對於我們的驚喜 , 我們不僅得到骨髓 , 還得到10倍的幹細胞活動 , 相較於一般的裝置 。
this device was just fda approved in the last year .	這個裝置在去年才被核准 。
here is a live patient . you can see it following the flexible curves around .	這裡是活的病患 , 你可以看到它跟隨靈活的曲線 。
there will be two passes here , in the same patient , from the same hole .	同一個病人 , 同一個病人 , 會在同一個洞裡經過兩條路 。
this was done under local anesthesia , as an outpatient .	這是在當地的麻醉劑 , 作為一個廣告 。
and we got , again , about three to six times more stem cells than the standard approach done on the same patient .	同樣的 , 我們得到了三到六倍的幹細胞 , 比同一個病人做的標準方法還要多 。
so why should you care ? bone marrow is a very rich source of adult stem cells .	所以 , 你為什麼要在乎 ? 骨髓是成人幹細胞的豐富來源 。
you all know about embryonic stem cells .	你們都知道胚胎幹細胞 。
they've got great potential but haven't yet entered clinical trials .	他們有很大的潛力 , 但還沒有進入臨床試驗 。
adult stem cells are throughout our body , including the bloodforming stem cells in our bone marrow , which we've been using as a form of stemcell therapy for over 40 years .	成人幹細胞在我們的身體中 , 包括我們骨髓裡的血液幹細胞 , 我們一直使用這種幹細胞治療法 , 超過四十年來 。
in the last decade there's been an explosion of use of bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient's other diseases such as heart disease , vascular disease , orthopedics , tissue engineering , even in neurology to treat parkinson's and diabetes .	在過去的十年中 , 使用骨髓幹細胞來治療病人的其他疾病 , 例如心臟病、血管疾病、組織工程 , 甚至在神經邏輯上治療帕金森氏症和糖尿病 。
we've just come out , we're commercializing , this year , generation 2 . 0 of the marrow miner .	我們剛剛出櫃 , 今年商業化 , 兩代的遊行礦工 。
the hope is that this gets more stem cells out , which translates to better outcomes .	希望這能得到更多幹細胞 , 轉化成更好的結果 。
it may encourage more people to sign up to be potential livesaving bone marrow donors .	它可能會鼓勵更多人簽下潛在的骨髓捐贈者 。
it may even enable you to bank your own marrow stem cells , when you're younger and healthier , to use in the future should you need it .	它甚至可能讓你可以把你自己的骨髓幹細胞安排 , 當你比較年輕、更健康 , 在未來你就應該要用它 。
and ultimately and here's a picture of our bone marrow transplant survivors , who come together for a reunion each year at stanford .	最終 , 這是一張我們骨髓移植的倖存者照片 , 每年在史丹佛 , 聚集在一起 。
hopefully this technology will let us have more of these survivors in the future .	希望這項技術能讓我們在未來有更多這些倖存者 。
physicist and surfer garrett lisi presents a controversial new model of the universe that just maybe answers all the big questions . if nothing else , it's the most beautiful 8dimensional model of elementary particles and forces you've ever seen .	物理學家和衝浪莉西提出一個有爭議的宇宙模型 , 可能可以回答所有大問題 。 如果沒有 , 它是你所見過最美麗的基本粒子和力量 。
physics , science , technology	物理、科學、科技、科技、科技 。
garrett lisi on his theory of everything	garrettlisi理論上 , 所有事情的理論都在他的理論上 。
whoa , dude . check out those killer equations . sweet .	哇 , 老兄 , 看看那些殺手方程式 。 很甜 。
actually , for the next 18 minutes i'm going to do the best i can to describe the beauty of particle physics without equations .	事實上 , 接下來的十八分鐘 , 我會盡我所能 , 來描述粒子物理的美麗 。
it turns out there's a lot we can learn from coral .	事實證明 , 我們可以從珊瑚身上學到很多 。
coral is a very beautiful and unusual animal .	珊瑚是非常美麗且不尋常的動物 。
each coral head consists of thousand of individual polyps .	每個珊瑚頭部是由數千個個個體的聚合物所組成 。
these polyps are continually budding and branching into genetically identical neighbors .	這些聚合物不斷地擴散到基因相同的鄰居身上 。
if we imagine this to be a hyperintelligent coral , we can single out an individual and ask him a reasonable question .	如果我們想像這是一個超級聰明的珊瑚 , 我們可以單獨獨獨獨立 , 問他一個很合理的問題 。
we can ask how exactly he got to be in this particular location compared to his neighbors if it was just chance , or destiny , or what ?	我們可以問他在這個特定位置的位置 , 與他的鄰居相比 , 或命運 , 或如何 ?
now , after admonishing us for turning the temperature up too high , he would tell us that our question was completely stupid .	在把溫度升到太高之後 , 他會告訴我們 , 我們的問題完全是愚蠢的 。
these corals can be quite kind of mean , you see , and i have surfing scars to prove that .	這些珊瑚的意思是 , 你看 , 我有衝浪疤可以證明這一點 。
but this polyp would continue and tell us that his neighbors were quite clearly identical copies of him .	但這個聚會會會繼續告訴我們 , 他的鄰居非常明顯地對他有同感 。
that he was in all these other locations as well , but experiencing them as separate individuals .	他也處於其他地方 , 但也把他們和個體分開 。
for a coral , branching into different copies is the most natural thing in the world .	對珊瑚而言 , 分散到不同的複製品是世界上最自然的東西 。
unlike us , a hyperintelligent coral would be uniquely prepared to understand quantum mechanics .	與我們不同 , 超級智慧的珊瑚會特別準備好要了解量子力學 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics very accurately describes how our universe works .	量子力學的數學非常準確地描述我們的宇宙如何運作 。
and it tells us our reality is continually branching into different possibilities , just like a coral .	它告訴我們 , 我們的現實持續地擴散到不同的可能性 , 就像珊瑚一樣 。
it's a weird thing for us humans to wrap our minds around , since we only ever get to experience one possibility .	對我們人類來說 , 這是一件很奇怪的事 , 因為我們只能體驗一個可能性 。
this quantum weirdness was first described by erwin schrödinger and his cat .	這種量子奇怪的現象首先是艾爾文•薛丁格和他的貓的描述 。
the cat likes this version better .	貓喜歡這個版本 。
in this setup , schrödinger is in a box with a radioactive sample that , by the laws of quantum mechanics , branches into a state in which it is radiated and a state in which it is not .	在這個設定中 , 薛丁格在一個盒子裡 , 一個放射性樣本 , 由量子力學定律 , 分裂成一個狀態 , 它是放射性和一個狀態 , 它不是 。
in the branch in which the sample radiates , it sets off a trigger that releases poison and schrödinger is dead .	在樣本放射線中 , 它會產生一種觸發 , 釋放毒藥和薛丁格的觸發 。
but in the other branch of reality , he remains alive .	但在現實中 , 他仍然活著 。
these realities are experienced separately by each individual .	每個人的真實體驗都不同 。
as far as either can tell , the other one doesn't exist .	無論如何 , 另一個也不存在 。
this seems weird to us , because each of us only experiences an individual existence , and we don't get to see other branches .	這對我們來說是很奇怪的 , 因為我們每個人都經歷了個人的存在 , 而我們無法看見其他的分支 。
it's as if each of us , like schrödinger here , are a kind of coral branching into different possibilities .	就好像我們每一個人 , 像schordinger一樣 , 都是一種珊瑚在不同的可能性中分支 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics tells us this is how the world works at tiny scales .	量子力學的數學告訴我們 , 世界在小尺度上是如何運作的 。
it can be summed up in a single sentence: everything that can happen , does .	它可以在單一句子中總結起來:所有可能發生的事 , 都可以 。
but this does not mean everything happens .	但這並不意味著一切都發生了 。
the rest of physics is about describing what can happen and what can't .	物理的其他部分是要描述可能發生什麼事 , 以及什麼不能 。
what physics tells us is that everything comes down to geometry and the interactions of elementary particles .	物理學告訴我們 , 所有東西都來到幾何和基本粒子的互動 。
and things can happen only if these interactions are perfectly balanced .	事情才有可能發生 , 即使這些互動是完全平衡的 。
now i'll go ahead and describe how we know about these particles , what they are and how this balance works .	現在 , 我先來描述一下我們對這些粒子的認識 , 它們是什麼 , 以及這個平衡是如何運作的 。
in this machine , a beam of protons and antiprotons are accelerated to near the speed of light and brought together in a collision , producing a burst of pure energy .	在這台機器中 , 質子和反質子的光速加速到近光速的近端 , 融合在一起 , 產生出純粹能量的爆炸 。
this energy is immediately converted into a spray of subatomic particles , with detectors and computers used to figure out their properties .	這種能量會立刻轉換成海底粒子的噴霧 , 探測器和電腦以前用來找出它們的特性 。
this enormous machine the large hadron collider at cern in geneva has a circumference of 17 miles and , when it's operating , draws five times as much power as the city of monterey .	這台巨大的機器 , 位於日內瓦的大型強子對撞機 , 有17英哩的圓形 , 當它在運作時 , 引發了五倍的力量 , 就像蒙特里的城市一樣 。
we can't predict specifically what particles will be produced in any individual collision .	我們無法準確預測哪些粒子會在任何個體碰撞中產生什麼 。
quantum mechanics tells us all possibilities are realized .	量子力學告訴我們所有可能性都被發現 。
but physics does tell us what particles can be produced .	但物理學告訴我們 , 粒子能產生什麼 。
these particles must have just as much mass and energy as is carried in by the proton and antiproton .	這些粒子的質量和能量相同於質子和反質子所攜帶的能量 。
any particles more massive than this energy limit aren't produced , and remain invisible to us .	任何粒子都比這種能量限制更大 , 且對我們來說仍然是隱形的 。
this is why this new particle accelerator is so exciting .	這就是為什麼新粒子加速器如此令人興奮 。
it's going to push this energy limit seven times beyond what's ever been done before , so we're going to get to see some new particles very soon .	它將超越前所未有的能量限制七倍之外所以我們會很快地看到一些新的粒子
but before talking about what we might see , let me describe the particles we already know of .	但在談我們可能看到的之前 , 讓我先描述我們已經知道的粒子 。
there's a whole zoo of subatomic particles .	有一系列的亞原子粒子 。
most of us are familiar with electrons .	我們大部分人都很熟悉電子 。
a lot of people in this room make a good living pushing them around .	在這間房間裡的許多人 , 使得他們生活得更好 。
but the electron also has a neutral partner called the neutrino , with no electric charge and a very tiny mass .	但電子也有一個中立的夥伴 , 叫做中子 , 沒有電荷和一個非常小的質量 。
in contrast , the upanddown quarks have very large masses , and combine in threes to make the protons and neutrons inside atoms .	相較之下 , 上下的夸克有很大的質量 , 三分之三 , 將質子和中子結合在一起 , 使原子在原子裡 。
all of these matter particles come in left and righthanded varieties , and have antiparticle partners that carry opposite charges .	所有這些粒子都在左邊和右邊的品種 , 有反粒子的伴侶 , 帶著相反的載荷 。
these familiar particles also have less familiar second and third generations , which have the same charges as the first but have much higher masses .	這些熟悉的粒子也較不熟悉的第二代和第三代 , 相同的載荷是第一代 , 但質量較高 。
these matter particles all interact with the various force particles .	這些粒子都與各種力量相互作用 。
the electromagnetic force interacts with electrically charged matter via particles called photons .	電磁力會互相作用 , 通過所謂的光子粒子 , 產生電磁力 。
there is also a very weak force called , rather unimaginatively , the weak force , that interacts only with lefthanded matter .	還有一個非常弱的力量 , 非常不想像力 , 弱的力量 , 只有左撇子的物質相互作用 。
the strong force acts between quarks which carry a different kind of charge , called color charge , and come in three different varieties: red , green and blue .	夸克之間的強力作用有著不同的載荷 , 叫做顏色載荷 , 再來三種不同的品種:紅、綠和藍 。
you can blame murray gellmann for these names they're his fault .	你可以怪罪murraygellmann給這些名字 , 這是他的錯 。
finally , there's the force of gravity , which interacts with matter via its mass and spin .	最後 , 引力是引力 , 與物質交互作用 , 透過它的質量和旋轉 。
the most important thing to understand here is that there's a different kind of charge associated with each of these forces .	最重要的是 , 每一股力量都有不同的載荷 。
these four different forces interact with matter according to the corresponding charges that each particle has .	這四種不同的力量 , 根據每個粒子都有的相應載荷 。
a particle that hasn't been seen yet , but we're pretty sure exists , is the higgs particle , which gives masses to all these other particles .	一個還沒見過的粒子但我們很確定是希格斯粒子這使得其他粒子的質量
the main purpose of the large hadron collider is to see this higgs particle , and we're almost certain it will .	大型強子對撞機的主要目的就是看到希格斯粒子 , 我們幾乎可以確定它會發生 。
but the greatest mystery is what else we might see .	但最神秘的是我們可能看到的 。
and i'm going to show you one beautiful possibility towards the end of this talk .	我要給你們看一段美麗的可能性 , 來到這場演說的結束 。
now , if we count up all these different particles using their various spins and charges , there are 226 .	如果我們用不同的旋轉和載荷來計算這些不同的粒子 , 有226個粒子 。
that's a lot of particles to keep track of .	這是很多粒子用來追蹤的 。
and it seems strange that nature would have so many elementary particles .	看起來很奇怪 , 大自然會有這麼多元的粒子 。
but if we plot them out according to their charges , some beautiful patterns emerge .	但如果我們根據他們的指控 , 加上一些美麗的圖案 , 就會出現了 。
the most familiar charge is electric charge .	最熟悉的電荷是電荷 。
electrons have an electric charge , a negative one , and quarks have electric charges in thirds .	電子有電荷 , 負電荷 , 夸克有三分之一的電荷 。
so when two up quarks and a down quark are combined to make a proton , it has a total electric charge of plus one .	所以當兩個夸克和一個夸克結合成一個質子 , 它有完全的電荷 。
these particles also have antiparticles , which have opposite charges .	這些粒子也有反粒子 , 有相反的載荷 。
now , it turns out the electric charge is actually a combination of two other charges: hypercharge and weak charge .	結果發現 , 電荷其實是另外兩個載荷的組合:超電荷和弱荷 。
if we spread out the hypercharge and weak charge and plot the charges of particles in this twodimensional charge space , the electric charge is where these particles sit along the vertical direction .	如果我們把超電荷和弱電荷分散出來 , 將粒子的載荷放在這兩維電荷空間中 , 電荷是這些粒子在垂直方向附近的位置 。
the electromagnetic and weak forces interact with matter according to their hypercharge and weak charge , which make this pattern .	電磁力和弱力會根據高電荷和弱電荷相互作用 , 產生這種模式 。
this is called the unified electroweak model , and it was put together back in 1967 .	這叫做 「 統一的電擊模型 」 , 它在1967年被放回來 。
the reason most of us are only familiar with electric charge and not both of these is because of the higgs particle .	我們之所以很熟悉 , 是因為希格斯粒子 。
the higgs , over here on the left , has a large mass and breaks the symmetry of this electroweak pattern .	左邊的希格斯有很大的質量 , 打破了這個選舉模式的對稱性 。
it makes the weak force very weak by giving the weak particles a large mass .	它會讓弱力變弱 , 使弱粒子變弱 , 使得弱粒子變大 。
since this massive higgs sits along the horizontal direction in this diagram , the photons of electromagnetism remain massless and interact with electric charge along the vertical direction in this charge space .	自從這張圖中 , 大量的希格斯會沿著水平方向 , 電磁共振成像的光子仍然很大 , 在這個載荷空間中的垂直方向相互作用 。
so the electromagnetic and weak forces are described by this pattern of particle charges in twodimensional space .	所以電磁力和弱力被二維空間中的粒子載荷所描述的模式 。
we can include the strong force by spreading out its two charge directions and plotting the charges of the force particles in quarks along these directions .	我們可以把強力的力量分散出兩個載荷的方向並將引導電粒子的載荷放在這些方向上
the charges of all known particles can be plotted in a fourdimensional charge space , and projected down to two dimensions like this so we can see them .	所有已知粒子的載荷都可以在四度載荷空間中繪製 , 並投射到兩度空間 , 這樣我們就能看見它們 。
whenever particles interact , nature keeps things in a perfect balance along all four of these charge directions .	每當粒子互動時 , 大自然就會沿著四個載荷方向保持完美的平衡 。
if a particle and an antiparticle collide , it creates a burst of energy and a total charge of zero in all four charge directions .	如果粒子和反粒子碰撞 , 它會產生能量的破裂 , 總載四個電荷方向的零 。
at this point , anything can be created as long as it has the same energy and maintains a total charge of zero .	在這一刻 , 任何東西都可以被創造出來 , 只要它有相同的能量 , 維持一個完全零的載荷 。
for example , this weak force particle and its antiparticle can be created in a collision .	例如 , 這種弱力粒子和反粒子可以在碰撞中產生 。
in further interactions , the charges must always balance .	在更進一步的互動中 , 控訴一定要平衡 。
one of the weak particles could decay into an electron and an antineutrino , and these three still add to zero total charge .	其中一個弱的粒子可以腐化成電子和反中子 , 這三種粒子仍然加上零 ,
nature always keeps a perfect balance .	大自然總是保持完美的平衡 。
so these patterns of charges are not just pretty .	所以這些載荷的模式並不很漂亮 。
they tell us what interactions are allowed to happen .	他們告訴我們 , 什麼互動允許發生 。
and we can rotate this charge space in four dimensions to get a better look at the strong interaction , which has this nice hexagonal symmetry .	我們可以在四度空間中旋轉這個載荷空間 , 來更好地觀察這個強大的互動 , 它有這種美妙的六角形對稱性 。
in a strong interaction , a strong force particle , such as this one , interacts with a colored quark , such as this green one , to give a quark with a different color charge this red one .	在強烈的互動中 , 強力的粒子 , 例如這一個 , 和有色的夸克互動 , 例如這個綠色的夸克 , 用不同的色荷來充當這個紅色 。
and strong interactions are happening millions of times each second in every atom of our bodies , holding the atomic nuclei together .	而強烈的互動每秒發生在我們身體的每一個原子中 , 每秒鐘都在發生數百萬次 , 把原子核放在一起 。
but these four charges corresponding to three forces are not the end of the story .	但這四個載荷相對應到三種力 , 並不是故事的終點 。
we can also include two more charges corresponding to the gravitational force .	我們還可以將兩種載荷給引力 。
when we include these , each matter particle has two different spin charges , spinup and spindown .	當我們將這些物質結合在一起 , 每個粒子都有兩個不同的旋轉載荷、旋轉和旋轉 。
so they all split , and give a nice pattern in sixdimensional charge space .	所以他們都分開 , 在六度載荷空間中提供一個好的圖案 。
we can rotate this pattern in six dimensions , and see that it's quite pretty .	我們可以在六維空間中旋轉這個模式 , 看看它是很漂亮的 。
right now , this pattern matches our best current knowledge of how nature is built at the tiny scales of these elementary particles .	此時此刻 , 這種模式符合了我們目前對大自然的知識 , 以這些基本粒子的微小規模建造 。
this is what we know for certain .	這是我們確定的 。
some of these particles are at the very limit of what we've been able to reach with experiments .	有些粒子是極限的 , 我們能用實驗來接觸到的 。
from this pattern , we already know the particle physics of these tiny scales . the way the universe works with these tiny scales is very beautiful .	從這個模式中 , 我們已經知道這些微小的物理學 。 宇宙與這些微小的尺度是非常美麗的 。
but now i'm going to discuss some new and old ideas about things we don't know yet .	但現在我要討論一些我們還不知道的新想法 。
we want to expand this pattern using mathematics alone , and see if we can get our hands on the whole enchilada .	我們想單獨用數學來拓展這個模式 , 看看我們能不能把我們的手放在整個安達拉達州 。
we want to find all the particles and forces that make a complete picture of our universe .	我們想找到所有的粒子和力量 , 讓宇宙成為完整的圖片 。
and we want to use this picture to predict new particles that we'll see when experiments reach higher energies .	我們想用這張照片來預測我們將看到的新粒子 , 當實驗達到更高的能量時 。
so there's an old idea in particle physics that this known pattern of charges , which is not very symmetric , could emerge from a more perfect pattern that gets broken similar to how the higgs particle breaks the electroweak pattern to give electromagnetism .	所以 , 在粒子物理學中有個古老的想法 , 這種已知的電荷模式 , 不對稱 , 可以從更完美的模式中出現 , 希格斯粒子會突破電流模式 , 以提供電磁性 。
in order to do this , we need to introduce new forces with new charge directions .	為了做到這一點 , 我們需要引入新的載荷方向 。
when we introduce a new direction , we get to guess what charges the particles have along this direction , and then we can rotate it in with the others .	當我們介紹一個新的方向 , 我們就能猜測粒子在這個方向上載電荷 , 然後我們可以把粒子轉換成另一個方向 。
if we guess wisely , we can construct the standard charges in six charge dimensions as a broken symmetry of this more perfect pattern in seven charge dimensions .	如果我們很明智地猜測 , 我們就能建構標準載荷的六度空間 , 作為一個破碎的對稱性 , 在七度空間中 , 一個完美的圖案 。
this particular choice corresponds to a grand unified theory introduced by pati and salam in 1973 .	在1973年 , 這種特殊的選擇對應 , 由pati和salam所提出的理論 。
when we look at this new unified pattern , we can see a couple of gaps where particles seem to be missing .	當我們看到這個新統一的模式 , 我們可以看到一些缺陷 , 粒子似乎缺少了 。
this is the way theories of unification work .	這是統一理論的運作方式 。
a physicist looks for larger , more symmetric patterns that include the established pattern as a subset .	物理學家會尋找更大、更對稱的模式 , 包括建立模式的基礎 。
the larger pattern allows us to predict the existence of particles that have never been seen .	更大的模式讓我們能夠預測從未見過的粒子存在 。
this unification model predicts the existence of these two new force particles , which should act a lot like the weak force , only weaker .	這種統一模型預測了這兩種新力粒子的存在 , 它應該很像弱力 , 只有弱力 。
now we can rotate this set of charges in seven dimensions and consider an odd fact about the matter particles: the second and third generations of matter have exactly the same charges in sixdimensional charge space as the first generation .	現在我們可以把這組載荷轉換成七度 , 並考慮一下關於物質粒子的奇怪事實:在六度載荷空間中的第二代和第三代物質有完全相同的載荷空間 。
these particles are not uniquely identified by their six charges .	這些粒子並非獨一無二的辨識出它們的六個載荷 。
they sit on top of one another in the standard charge space .	他們坐在標準載荷空間的另一端 。
however , if we work in eightdimensional charge space , then we can assign unique new charges to each particle .	然而 , 如果我們在八度載荷空間中工作 , 那麼 , 我們就能針對每一個粒子發出獨特的新載荷 。
then we can spin these in eight dimensions , and see what the whole pattern looks like .	接著 , 我們可以在八度內旋轉 , 看看整個圖案看起來是什麼樣子 。
here we can see the second and third generations of matter now related to the first generation by a symmetry called " triality . "	這裡我們可以看到第二代和第三代物質與第一代的對稱性有關 , 叫做 「 試驗性 」 。
this particular pattern of charges in eight dimensions is actually part of the most beautiful geometric structure in mathematics .	在八度空間中這種特殊的載荷模式實際上是數學中最漂亮的幾何結構之一 。
it's a pattern of the largest exceptional lie group , e8 .	這是最大例外的謊言群體的模式e8 。
this lie group is a smooth , curved shape with 248 dimensions .	這個謊言團體是一個平滑的曲線形狀有248度的形狀
each point in this pattern corresponds to a symmetry of this very complex and beautiful shape .	在這個模式中 , 每一點都對應到一個非常複雜且美麗的形狀 。
one small part of this e8 shape can be used to describe the curved spacetime of einstein's general relativity , explaining gravity .	這種e8形狀的一小部分可以用來描述愛因斯坦的廣義相對論 , 解釋重力 。
together with quantum mechanics , the geometry of this shape could describe everything about how the universe works at the tiniest scales .	加上量子力學 , 這種形狀的幾何圖形可以描述宇宙在最小的尺度上如何運作 。
the pattern of this shape living in eightdimensional charge space is exquisitely beautiful , and it summarizes thousands of possible interactions between these elementary particles , each of which is just a facet of this complicated shape .	這種形狀的形狀在八度載荷空間中是非常美麗的 , 它在這些基本粒子之間總結成千上萬的交互作用 , 每一個都只是一個複雜的形狀的面向 。
as we spin it , we can see many of the other intricate patterns contained in this one .	正如我們所旋轉的 , 我們可以看到許多其他複雜的圖案 , 包含在這一個圖案中 。
and with a particular rotation , we can look down through this pattern in eight dimensions along a symmetry axis and see all the particles at once .	帶著特定的旋轉 , 我們可以在八度空間沿著對稱軸向下看 , 同時看到所有粒子 。
it's a very beautiful object , and as with any unification , we can see some holes where new particles are required by this pattern .	它是一個非常美麗的物體 , 和任何統一物一樣 , 我們可以看到一些洞 , 新的粒子被這個模式所需要 。
there are 20 gaps where new particles should be , two of which have been filled by the patisalam particles .	新粒子應該有20個差距 , 其中兩個被派粒子填滿 。
from their location in this pattern , we know that these new particles should be scalar fields like the higgs particle , but have color charge and interact with the strong force .	從它們的位置來看 , 我們知道這些新的粒子應該像希格斯粒子一樣可怕的粒子 , 但有色荷力和強力的作用 。
filling in these new particles completes this pattern , giving us the full e8 .	在這些新的粒子中填滿了這個圖案 , 給予我們完整的e8 。
this e8 pattern has very deep mathematical roots .	這個e8模式有很深的數學根源 。
it's considered by many to be the most beautiful structure in mathematics .	被認為是數學中最漂亮的結構 。
it's a fantastic prospect that this object of great mathematical beauty could describe the truth of particle interactions at the smallest scales imaginable .	這是個神奇的前景 , 一個偉大的數學美麗物體可以描述粒子在最小的尺度相互作用的真相 。
and this idea that nature is described by mathematics is not at all new .	這種想法 , 大自然是由數學所描述的 , 完全不是全新的 。
in 1623 , galileo wrote this: " nature's grand book , which stands continually open to our gaze , is written in the language of mathematics .	在1623年 , 伽利略寫了這個: 「 大自然的孫子書 , 不斷地打開我們的視覺 , 寫在數學的語言中 。
its characters are triangles , circles and other geometrical figures , without which it is humanly impossible to understand a single word of it ; without these , one is wandering around in a dark labyrinth . "	它的角色是三角形 , 圓圈和其他幾何圖形 , 沒有人能理解它的單一字 ; 沒有這些字 , 一個在黑暗的迷宮周圍 。 」
i believe this to be true , and i've tried to follow galileo's guidance in describing the mathematics of particle physics using only triangles , circles and other geometrical figures .	我相信這是真的 , 我試著跟隨著伽利略的指引 , 描述粒子物理的數學數學 , 只用三角形、圓圈和其他幾何數字 。
of course , when other physicists and i actually work on this stuff , the mathematics can resemble a dark labyrinth .	當然 , 當其他物理學家和我真的在研究這個東西時 , 數學可以重新組成一個黑暗的迷宮 。
but it's reassuring that at the heart of this mathematics is pure , beautiful geometry .	但 , 值得知道 , 在數學的核心是純淨的 , 美麗的幾何 。
joined with quantum mechanics , this mathematics describes our universe as a growing e8 coral , with particles interacting at every location in all possible ways according to a beautiful pattern .	加入量子力學 , 這種數學描述了我們的宇宙 , 隨著長大的e8珊瑚 , 粒子在每個地方互動 , 根據一個美麗的圖案 , 所有可能的粒子 。
and as more of the pattern comes into view using new machines like the large hadron collider , we may be able to see whether nature uses this e8 pattern or a different one .	隨著圖案的觀點越來越多 , 用像大型強子對撞機 , 我們可能可以看見大自然是否使用這種e8型式或不同的形式 。
this process of discovery is a wonderful adventure to be involved in .	這項發現的過程 , 是一項很棒的冒險 。
if the lhc finds particles that fit this e8 pattern , that will be very , very cool .	如果lhc找到符合這個e8模式的粒子 , 那會是非常非常非常酷的 。
if the lhc finds new particles , but they don't fit this pattern well , that will be very interesting , but bad for this e8 theory .	如果lhc找到新的粒子 , 但它們不符合這個模式 , 那會非常有趣 , 但對這個e8理論來說是不好的 。
and , of course , bad for me personally .	當然 , 對我來說 , 不好 。
now how bad would that be ?	那會有多糟 ?
well , pretty bad .	嗯 , 很不好 。
but predicting how nature works is a very risky game .	但 , 預測大自然如何運作是非常危險的遊戲 。
this theory and others like it are long shots .	這個理論和其他類似的理論是很長的 。
one does a lot of hard work knowing that most of these ideas probably won't end up being true about nature .	一個人做了很多努力 , 知道大部分這些想法可能不會是對大自然的真理 。
that's what doing theoretical physics is like: there are a lot of wipeouts .	這就是理論物理學的樣子:有大量的野生動物 。
in this regard , new physics theories are a lot like startup companies .	在這個方面 , 新的物理理論很像新創公司 。
as with any large investment , it can be emotionally difficult to abandon a line of research when it isn't working out .	如同任何大投資一樣 , 可能會對一系列的研究感到非常困難 。
but in science , if something isn't working , you have to toss it out and try something else .	但在科學上 , 如果沒有用的話 , 你就得去試試別的 。
now , the only way to maintain sanity and achieve happiness in the midst of this uncertainty is to keep balance and perspective in life .	現在 , 要維持清潔和達成幸福的唯一方法就是維持平衡和生活的觀點 。
i've tried the best i can to live a balanced life .	我盡了最好的生存平衡生活 。
i try to balance my life equally between physics , love and surfing my own three charge directions .	我試著在物理、愛、衝浪我自己的三條載荷方向之間平衡我的生活 。
this way , even if the physics i work on comes to nothing , i still know i've lived a good life .	這樣 , 即使我所研究的物理學都沒有 , 我仍然知道我過著好的生活 。
and i try to live in beautiful places .	我試著生活在美麗的地方 。
for most of the past ten years i've lived on the island of maui , a very beautiful place .	過去十年來 , 我住在大麻島 , 一個非常美麗的地方 。
now it's one of the greatest mysteries in the universe to my parents how i managed to survive all that time without engaging in anything resembling fulltime employment .	宇宙中最偉大的謎團之一 , 是我父母 , 我如何能在沒有完整的職業中生存下來的時刻 。
i'm going to let you in on that secret .	我要讓你們看這個秘密 。
this was a view from my home office on maui .	這是我家的辦公室的照片 。
and you may have noticed that these beautiful views are similar , but in slightly different places .	你可能已經注意到這些美麗的觀點是相似的 , 但在稍微不同的地方 。
that's because this used to be my home and office on maui .	那是因為這曾經是我在梅伊的家和辦公室 。
i've chosen a very unusual life .	我選擇了非常不尋常的生活 。
but not worrying about rent allowed me to spend my time doing what i love .	但 , 不擔心租金讓我花時間做我所愛的事 。
living a nomadic existence has been hard at times , but it's allowed me to live in beautiful places and keep a balance in my life that i've been happy with .	活著的遊牧存在很艱辛 , 但它讓我能活在美麗的地方 , 保持平衡 , 我一生都很快樂 。
it allows me to spend a lot of my time hanging out with hyperintelligent coral .	我可以花很多時間和超級聰明的珊瑚在一起 。
but i also greatly enjoy the company of hyperintelligent people .	但我也很享受超級智慧的人的公司 。
so i'm very happy to have been invited here to ted .	我很高興被邀請來ted 。
chris anderson: i probably understood two percent of that , but i still absolutely loved it . so i'm going to sound dumb .	克里斯•安德森:我大概了解了百分之二 , 但我仍然很愛它 。 所以我要聽起來很蠢 。
your theory of everything garrett lisi: i'm used to coral .	你的所有東西的理論:我習慣了珊瑚 。
ca: that's right . the reason it's got a few people at least excited is because , if you're right , it brings gravity and quantum theory together .	克里斯:沒錯 。 讓幾個人至少感到興奮是因為 , 如果你是對的 , 它會把重力和量子理論結合在一起 。
so are you saying that we should think of the universe , at its heart that the smallest things that there are , are somehow an e8 object of possibility ?	所以 , 你是說 , 我們應該去思考宇宙 , 最小的事物 , 無論何種可能的e8物體 ?
i mean , is there a scale to it , at the smallest scale , or . . . ?	我的意思是 , 在最小的尺度上 , 是否有規模 ?
gl: well , right now the pattern i showed you that corresponds to what we know about elementary particle physics that already corresponds to a very beautiful shape .	格林:嗯 , 現在我給你們看的圖案 , 是對我們所知的基本粒子物理學已經對應到一個非常漂亮的形狀 。
and that's the one that i said we knew for certain .	這就是我所說的 , 我們肯定知道 。
and that shape has remarkable similarities and the way it fits into this e8 pattern could be the rest of the picture .	這種形狀有很大的相似性和它融入這個e8的圖案中 , 可能是其餘的圖片 。
and these patterns of points that i've shown for you actually represent symmetries of this highdimensional object that would be warping and moving and dancing over the space time that we experience .	我向各位展示的這些圖案 , 其實代表著這種高維的物體的對稱性 , 會被扭曲、移動和跳舞在我們所經歷的時空中 。
and that would be what explains all these elementary particles that we see .	這就解釋了我們所看到的所有元素粒子 。
ca: but a string theorist , as i understand it , explains electrons in terms of much smaller strings vibrating i know you don't like string theory vibrating inside it .	克:但弦理論學家 , 如我所知 , 用較小的弦弦來解釋電子 , 我知道你不喜歡弦理論的震動 。
how should we think of an electron in relation to e8 ?	我們該如何看待電子與e8的關係呢 ?
gl: no , it would be one of the symmetries of this e8 shape .	格林:不 , 它是這個e8形狀的對稱之一 。
so what's happening is , as the shape is moving over spacetime , it's twisting . and the direction it's twisting as it moves is what particle we see . so it would be ca: the size of the e8 shape , how does that relate to the electron ?	所以 , 當形狀在空間中移動時 , 它是扭曲的 。 當它移動時 , 它的方向是粒子的 。 所以它會是克:e8形狀的大小 , 和電子是怎麼相連的 ?
i kind of feel like i need that for my picture .	我覺得我需要這張照片 。
is it bigger ? is it smaller ?	它更大嗎 ? 它更小嗎 ?
gl: well , as far as we know electrons are point particles , so this would be going down to the smallest possible scales .	格林:嗯 , 正如我們所知 , 電子是指定的粒子 , 所以它會降到最小的尺度 。
so the way these things are explained in quantum field theory is , all possibilities are expanding and developing at once .	所以 , 在量子場理論中 , 所有可能性都在擴張和發展中 。
and this is why i use the analogy to coral .	這就是為什麼我要用類比來做珊瑚 。
and in this way , the way that e8 comes in is it will be as a shape that's attached at each point in spacetime .	如此一來 , e8的出現方式是 , 每一刻都附著在空間的形狀 。
and , as i said , the way the shape twists the directional along which way the shape is twisting as it moves over this curved surface is what the elementary particles are , themselves .	正如我所說的 , 形狀扭曲了方向 , 形狀在轉動這曲線表面的形狀是基本粒子本身 。
so through quantum field theory , they manifest themselves as points and interact that way .	透過量子場理論 , 他們表現出自己是指點 , 以這種方式互動 。
i don't know if i'll be able to make this any clearer .	我不知道我能不能讓這個更清楚 。
ca: it doesn't really matter .	克里斯:這並不重要 。
it's evoking a kind of sense of wonder , and i certainly want to understand more of this .	它發揮了一種奇妙的感覺 , 我當然也想了解更多這一點 。
but thank you so much for coming . that was absolutely fascinating .	但 , 非常謝謝你來到這裡 , 這真是令人著迷的 。
the legendary chimpanzee researcher jane goodall talks about tacare and her other community projects , which help people in booming african towns live sidebyside with threatened animals .	傳奇的黑猩猩研究員珍•古巴爾談到計程車和其它社區計畫 , 協助在非洲大城的居住地 , 威脅動物 。
africa , animals , biodiversity , environment , global issues , pollution , primates , science	非洲、動物、生物多樣性、環境、全球議題、污染、靈長類、科學、科學 。
jane goodall helps humans and animals live together	珍•古柯鹼能協助人類和動物一起生活 。
good afternoon , good evening , whatever .	好的下午 , 晚安 , 等等 。
we can go , jambo , guten abend , bonsoir , but we can also ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh .	我們可以去 , 詹姆士 , 吉姆博 , 邦索爾 , 但我們也可以ooh , oh , oh , oh , oh , oh , oh , oh , oh , oh , oh 。
that is the call that chimpanzees make before they go to sleep in the evening .	這是黑猩猩在晚上睡覺之前所謂的 「 黑猩猩 」 。
you hear it going from one side of the valley to the other , from one group of nests to the next .	你聽到它從山谷的一邊到另一邊 , 從一群巢穴到下一個 。
and i want to pick up with my talk this evening from where zeray left off yesterday .	今天晚上我要拿起我的演說 , 今天晚上 , 零光是昨天離開的地方 。
he was talking about this amazing , threeyearold australopithecine child , selam .	他在談論這個驚人、三歲的澳洲兒童 , 塞拉姆 。
and we've also been hearing about the history , the family tree , of mankind through dna genetic profiling .	我們也聽說過歷史、家族樹 , 透過dna基因獲利 , 人類的基因樹 。
and it was a paleontologist , the late louis leakey , who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees .	這位是一位古生物學家 , 最近的路易斯路克西 , 他讓我走上研究黑猩猩的路徑 。
and it was pretty extraordinary , way back then .	當時是非常不凡的 。
it's kind of commonplace now , but his argument was because he'd been searching for the fossilized remains of early humans in africa .	現在有點常見 , 但他的論點是 , 因為他一直在尋找非洲早期人類的化石 。
and you can tell an awful lot about what those beings looked like from the fossils , from the shape of the muscle attachments , something about the way they lived from the various artifacts found with them .	你可以從化石中分辨出非常多人的樣子 , 從肌肉附著的形狀 , 和他們生活的方式有關 。
but what about how they behaved ? that's what he wanted to know .	但它們的行為呢 ? 這是他想要知道的 。
and of course , behavior doesn't fossilize .	當然 , 行為不會化石 。
he argued and it's now a fairly common theory that if we found behavior patterns similar or the same in our closest living relatives , the great apes , and humans today , then maybe those behaviors were present in the apelike , humanlike ancestor some seven million years ago .	他主張 , 現在是一個相當常見的理論 , 如果我們在我們最接近的活體親戚、大猩猩 , 和人類的行為 , 那麼也許這些行為在七百萬年前就出現了 , 人類的祖先 。
and therefore , perhaps we had brought those characteristics with us from that ancient , ancient past .	因此 , 或許我們把這些特徵從古老、古老的過去帶到我們身上 。
well , if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution , you very often find people speculating about how early humans may have behaved , based on the behavior of chimpanzees .	嗯 , 今天如果你看教科書處理人類演化 , 你通常會發現人們在猜測早期人類的行為 , 根據黑猩猩的行為來推測 。
they are more like us than any other living creature , and we've heard about that during this ted conference .	它們比任何生物更像我們 , 在ted研討會中我們也聽說過 。
so it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzees are so like us , in certain aspects of their behavior .	所以 , 我還是要在這些黑猩猩的行為中留下評論 , 在某些方面 , 黑猩猩的行為 。
every chimpanzee has his or her own personality .	每個黑猩猩都有自己的個性 。
of course , i gave them names . they can live to be 60 years or more , although we think most of them probably don't make it to 60 in the wild .	當然 , 我給他們名字 。 他們可以活到六十年 , 儘管我們認為大多數人可能不會在野外生存到六十歲 。
mr . wurzel . the female has her first baby when she's 11 or 12 .	華茲先生 , 女生在十一或十二歲時 , 她的第一個嬰兒 。
thereafter , she has one baby only every five or six years , a long period of childhood dependency when the child is nursing , sleeping with the mother at night , and riding on her back .	在那裡 , 她每五到六年就只有一個嬰兒 , 一個長期的童年依賴於童年 , 孩子在晚上和母親同床睡覺 , 背著她 。
and we believe that this long period of childhood is important for chimpanzees , just as it is for us , in relation to learning .	我們相信這段長期的童年對黑猩猩很重要 , 就如同我們一樣 , 和學習有關 。
as the brain becomes ever more complex during evolution in different forms of animals , so we find that learning plays an ever more important role in an individual's life history .	隨著大腦在不同的動物演化過程中變得更複雜 , 所以我們發現 , 學習在個人的生命歷史中扮演著更重要的角色 。
and young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do .	年輕的黑猩猩花了很多時間觀看他們的長輩所做的事 。
we know now that they're capable of imitating behaviors that they see .	我們現在知道他們有能力模仿他們所看到的行為 。
and we believe that it's in this way that the different toolusing behaviors that have now been seen in all the different chimpanzee populations studied in africa how these are passed from one generation to the next , through observation , imitation and practice , so that we can describe these toolusing behaviors as primitive culture .	我們相信 , 這種方式是不同的工具行為 , 現在已經在所有不同黑猩猩的族群中 , 研究這些族群是如何通過一個世代傳到下一個世代 , 透過觀察、模仿和練習 , 來形容這些工具的行為是原始的文化 。
chimpanzees don't have a spoken language . we've talked about that .	黑猩猩沒有口語的語言 。 我們已經談到這一點 。
they do have a very rich repertoire of postures and gestures , many of which are similar , or even identical , to ours and formed in the same context . greeting chimpanzees embracing .	牠們的確有非常豐富的姿勢和姿勢 , 很多都很相似 , 甚至是相同的 , 在同一個情境中形成 。 希臘的黑猩猩會擁抱 。
they also kiss , hold hands , pat one another on the back .	他們也親吻雙手 , 雙手 , 把另一張貼在背上 。
and they swagger and they throw rocks .	他們會變汗 , 他們會丟石頭 。
in chimpanzee society , we find many , many examples of compassion , precursors to love and true altruism .	在黑猩猩的社會中 , 我們發現許多關於同情心的例子 , 都是愛和真正的利他主義 。
unfortunately , they , like us , have a dark side to their nature .	不幸的是 , 他們和我們一樣 , 他們有著黑暗的一面 。
they're capable of extreme brutality , even a kind of primitive war .	它們有能力極度殘酷 , 甚至是一種原始的戰爭 。
and these really aggressive behaviors , for the most part , are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group .	而這些非常積極的行為 , 大部分的部分 , 都是對抗鄰近社會群體的個體 。
they are very territorially aggressive .	它們是非常積極的 。
chimpanzees , i believe , more than any other living creature , have helped us to understand that , after all , there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom .	黑猩猩 , 我相信 , 比任何其他生物 , 都協助我們了解 , 畢竟 , 人類和其他動物王國之間沒有鯊魚界線 。
it's a very blurry line , and it's getting more blurry all the time as we make even more observations .	這是一條非常模糊的線 , 隨著我們觀察更加模糊 。
the study that i began in 1960 is still continuing to this day .	我從1960年開始的這項研究至今仍持續著 。
and these chimpanzees , living their complex social lives in the wild , have helped more than anything else to make us realize we are part of , and not separated from , the amazing animals with whom we share the planet .	而這些黑猩猩 , 生活在野外的複雜社交生活 , 幫助我們了解到我們是其中的一部分 , 而非分離 , 和我們共享這個星球的神奇動物 。
so it's pretty sad to find that chimpanzees , like so many other creatures around the world , are losing their habitats .	所以 , 很難找到黑猩猩 , 就像世界上許多其他生物一樣 , 失去了牠們的棲息地 。
this is just one photograph from the air , and it shows you the forested highlands of gombe .	這只是從空氣中拍攝的一張照片 , 它向你展示了戈姆貝的森林高地 。
and it was when i flew over the whole area , about 16 years ago , and realized that outside the park , this forest , which in 1960 had stretched almost unbroken along the eastern shore of lake tanganyika , which is where the tiny , 30squaremile gombe national park lies , that a question came to my mind .	那時我在整個地區飛越 , 大約16年前 , 了解到在公園之外 , 這個森林 , 在1960年間 , 幾乎沒有在湖泊的海岸上 , 那裡是小小的 , 三十平方公園 , 我心中有個問題 。
" how can we even try to save these famous chimpanzees , when the people living around the national park are struggling to survive ? "	「 我們要如何試著拯救這些有名的黑猩猩 , 當住在全國公園附近的人掙扎著生存 ? 」
more people are living there than the land could possibly support .	更多人住在那裡 , 超過土地可能支持 。
the numbers increased by refugees pouring in from burundi and over the lake from congo .	難民數目增加 , 來自於緬甸 , 以及來自剛果湖泊的湖泊 。
and very poor people they couldn't afford to buy food from elsewhere .	貧窮的人 , 他們負擔不起從其他地方買食物 。
this led to a program , which we call tacare .	這個計畫導致了我們稱之為 「 計程車 」 。
it's a very holistic way of improving the lives of the people living in the villages around the park .	這是一種非常全面的方式 , 來改善生活在公園周圍的村民的生活 。
it started small with 12 villages . it's now in 24 .	它從12個村落開始 , 現在是24個村落 。
there isn't time to go into it , but it's including things like tree nurseries , methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded , almost desertlike land up in these mountains .	沒有時間可以進去 , 但它包含了一些東西 , 像是樹木護士 , 目前最適合農耕的方法 , 幾乎像沙漠一樣落在這些山中 。
ways of controlling , preventing soil erosion .	控制的方式 , 預防土壤的侵蝕 。
ways of reclaiming overused farmland , so that within two years they can again be productive .	重建過度使用的農地 , 這樣兩年後他們就能再次有生產力 。
working to help the villagers obtain fresh water from wells .	為了幫助村民從井中取得淡水 。
perhaps build some schoolrooms .	也許可以建立一些教室 。
most important of all , i believe , is working with small groups of women , providing them with opportunities for microcredit loans .	最重要的是 , 我相信 , 與一小群婦女合作 , 提供他們機會給微型貸款 。
and we've got , as is the case around the world , about 95 percent of all loans returned .	我們已經知道 , 世界上有95%的貸款回來了 。
empowering women , working with education , providing scholarships for girls so they can finish secondary school , in the clear understanding that , all around the world , as women's education improves , family size drops .	賦權女性 , 和教育合作 , 為女孩提供獎學金 , 這樣她們才能完成中學 , 清楚知道 , 全世界的女性教育改善 , 家庭大小的輟學 。
we provide information about family planning and about hiv/aids .	我們提供家庭規劃和愛滋病的資訊 。
and as a result of this program , something's happening for conservation .	由於這個計畫 , 關於保育 , 發生了什麼事 。
what's happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages , instead of looking on us as a bunch of white people coming to study a whole bunch of monkeys and by the way , many of the staff are now tanzanian but when we began the tacare program , it was a tanzanian team going into the villages .	關於保育的狀況是 , 農夫住在這24個村落 , 而不是把我們當成一群白人來研究一群猴子 , 順道一提 , 許多員工現在是坦尚尼亞人 , 但當我們開始計劃時 , 坦尚尼亞團隊進入村落 。
it was a tanzanian team talking to the villagers , asking what they were interested in .	那是一個坦尚尼亞團隊和村民談話 , 問他們對什麼感興趣 。
were they interested in conservation ? absolutely not .	他們對保育感興趣嗎 ? 絕對不是 。
they were interested in health ; they were interested in education .	他們對健康有興趣 , 他們對教育有興趣 。
and as time went on , and as their situation began to improve , they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation .	隨著時間持續下去 , 當他們的情況開始改善 , 他們開始對保育的需求越來越了解 。
they began to understand that as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees , so you've got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides .	他們開始了解 , 隨著山丘上升的層次被摧毀 , 所以你有了這種糟糕的土壤侵蝕和泥土 。
today , we are developing what we call the greater gombe ecosystem .	今天 , 我們正在發展我們所謂的 「 大黃金生態系統 」 。
this is an area way outside the national park , stretching out into all these very degraded lands .	這是個地方 , 在全國公園之外 , 延伸到這些非常乾燥的土地上 。
and as these villages have a better standard of life , they are actually agreeing to put between 10 percent and 20 percent of their land in the highlands aside , so that once again , as the trees grow back , the chimpanzees will have leafy corridors through which they can travel to interact as they must for genetic viability with other remnant groups outside the national park .	當這些村莊有更好的生命標準 , 他們其實同意在高地上10%到20%的土地 , 所以 , 同樣的 , 隨著樹木長回來 , 黑猩猩就會有葉子 , 牠們可以在國家公園外的遺傳能力互動 。
so tacare is a success .	所以 , 泰卡爾是成功的 。
we're replicating it in other parts of africa , around other wilderness areas which are faced with extreme population pressure .	我們在非洲的其他地方複製它 , 其他的荒野地區 , 正面臨著極端人口的壓力 。
the problems in africa , however , as we've been discussing for the whole of these first couple of days of ted , are major problems .	然而 , 非洲的問題 , 正如我們前幾天所討論的 , 都是大問題 。
there is a great deal of poverty .	有很大的貧窮 。
and when you get large numbers of people living in land that is not that fertile , particularly when you cut down trees , and you leave the soil open to the wind for erosion , as desperate populations cut down more and more trees , so that they can try and grow food for themselves and their families , what's going to happen ? something's got to give .	當你有大量的人住在陸地上那不是肥沃 , 尤其是當你砍樹時 , 你把土壤留在空氣中 , 如同絕望的族群砍下更多樹木 , 所以他們可以試著為自己和家人種食物 , 會發生什麼事 ? 一定要給予 。
and the other problems in not only africa , but the rest of the developing world and , indeed , everywhere what are we doing to our planet ?	而其他的問題不僅是非洲 , 還有其他開發中國家 , 的確 , 到處都是我們對地球所做的事 ?
you know , the famous scientist , e . o . wilson said that if every person on this planet attains the standard of living of the average european or american , we need three new planets .	你知道 , 知名的科學家e.wilson說如果地球上每一個人都能維持平均歐洲或美國人的平均壽命的標準我們需要三個新星球
today , they are saying four . but we don't have them . we've got one .	今天 , 他們說了四個 。 但我們沒有 。 我們有一顆 。
and what's happened ? i mean , the question here is , here we are , arguably the most intelligent being that's ever walked planet earth , with this extraordinary brain , capable of the kind of technology that is so well illustrated by these ted conferences , and yet we're destroying the only home we have .	發生了什麼事 ? 我的意思是 , 問題是 , 我們是最聰明的生物 , 最聰明的生物 , 有著非凡的大腦 , 可以用這些ted會議來描述的技術 , 但我們卻在摧毀我們唯一的家 。
the indigenous people around the world , before they made a major decision , used to sit around and ask themselves , " how does this decision affect our people seven generations ahead ? "	世界各地的原住民 , 在他們做出重大決定之前 , 以前會坐下來問自己: 「 這種決定會如何影響我們的七代人 ? 」
today , major decisions and i'm not particularly talking about africa here , but the developed world major decisions involving millions of dollars , and millions of people , are often based on , " how will this affect the next shareholders' meeting ? "	今天 , 主要的決定 , 我並不是在談論非洲 , 而是已開發國家的主要決策 , 數百萬人 , 通常是基於 「 下一個股東會議如何影響下一個股東會議 ? 」
and these decisions affect africa .	這些決定會影響非洲 。
as i began traveling around africa talking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests , i realized more and more how so many of africa's problems could be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation .	當我開始在非洲四處旅行時 , 談到黑猩猩和牠們消失的森林 , 我越來越了解到 , 非洲有多少問題可以在以前殖民地剝削 。
so i began traveling outside africa , talking in europe , talking in the united states , going to asia .	所以我開始在非洲外旅行 , 在歐洲 , 說話 , 在美國 , 要去亞洲 。
and everywhere there were these terrible problems .	到處都有這些可怕的問題 。
and you know the kind i'm talking about . i'm talking about pollution .	各位知道我在說什麼 , 我在談污染 。
the air that we breathe that often poisons us .	我們呼吸的空氣通常會毒害我們 。
the earth is poisoning our foods .	地球正在毒害我們的食物 。
the water water is perhaps one of the most crucial issues that we're going to face in this century and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural , industrial and household chemicals that still are being sprayed around the world , seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience .	水源可能是我們這個世紀所面臨的最關鍵問題之一 , 每個地方的水都被農業、工業和家庭化學物質污染 , 仍然在全世界流通 , 看似無能為力 , 從過去經驗中獲利 。
the mangroves are being cut down ; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse .	紅樹林被砍掉了 ; 海嘯的影響更糟 。
we've talked about the soil erosion .	我們已經談到土壤侵蝕 。
we have the reckless burning of fossil fuels along with other greenhouse gasses , so called , leading to climate change .	我們有不幸的燃燒化石燃料 , 和其他溫室氣體一起 , 叫做 「 氣候變遷 」 。
finally , all around the world , people have begun to believe that there is something going on very wrong with our climate .	最後 , 世界各地 , 人們開始相信 , 我們的氣候非常錯誤 。
all around the world climates are mixed up .	全世界的氣候都是混合在一起的 。
and it's the poor people who are affected worse .	窮人受到影響更糟糕 。
it's africa that already is affected .	非洲已經受到影響 。
in many parts of subsaharan africa , the droughts are so much worse .	在撒哈拉以南非洲許多地區 , 乾旱更糟糕 。
and when the rain does come , it so often leads to flooding and added distress , and the cycle of poverty and hunger and disease .	當雨來臨時 , 通常會導致洪水 , 加上痛苦 , 貧窮和疾病的循環 。
and the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support , who are too poor to buy food , who can't move away because the whole land is degraded .	居住在一個地區 , 土地無法支援 , 他們太貧窮 , 無法購買食物 , 因為整片土地被降低 。
and so you get desertification creeping , creeping , creeping as the last of the trees are cut down .	所以你得到了沙漠化的危機 , 火化 , 當樹的最後一棵被砍掉時 , 你就會被砍掉 。
and this kind of thing is not just in africa . it's all over the world .	這種東西不只在非洲 , 全世界都在 。
so it wasn't surprising to me that as i was traveling around the world i met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope .	所以 , 我並不意外 , 當我在世界各地旅行時 , 我遇到這麼多年輕人似乎失去了希望 。
we seem to have lost wisdom , the wisdom of the indigenous people .	我們似乎失去了智慧 , 原住民的智慧 。
i asked a question . " why ? "	我問了一個問題: 「 為什麼 ? 」
well , do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain , the kind of brain that the ted technologies exemplify , and the human heart ? talking about it in the nonscientific term , in terms of love and compassion . is there some disconnect ?	嗯 , 你認為 , 在這種非凡的聰明大腦中 , 可能有某種區別的大腦 , 像是ted技術的爆炸 , 人類的心 ? 以非科學的角度 , 以愛和同理心來談論它 。 是否有一些隔閡 ?
and these young people , when i talk to them , basically they were either depressed or apathetic , or bitter and angry . and they said more or less the same thing , " we feel this way because we feel you've compromised our future and there's nothing we can do about it . "	這些年輕人 , 當我和他們談話時 , 基本上他們都很沮喪、很生氣 。 他們說了更多或比較不一樣的東西: 「 我們有這種感覺 , 因為我們覺得自己已經妥協了我們的未來 , 沒有我們能做的事 。 」
we have compromised their future .	我們已經承諾了他們的未來 。
i've got three little grandchildren , and every time i look at them and i think how we've harmed this beautiful planet since i was their age , i feel this desperation .	我有三個小孫子 , 每當我看著他們時 , 我就會想 , 我們如何傷害這個美麗的星球 , 自我年紀以來 , 我感覺到這種絕望 。
and that led to this program we call roots and shoots , which began right here in tanzania and has now spread to 97 countries around the world .	這個計畫導致了我們稱之為根和芽 , 剛開始在坦尚尼亞這裡 , 現在散播到世界上97個國家 。
it's symbolic . roots make a firm foundation .	它是象徵性的 。 樹根建立了一間公司基金會 。
shoots seem tiny ; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall .	射擊似乎很小 , 要抵達太陽 , 才能穿過磚牆 。
see the brick wall as all these problems we've inflicted on the planet , environmental and social . it's a message of hope .	把磚牆視為是所有我們在地球上遇到的問題 , 環保和社會的問題 , 都是希望的訊息 。
hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things .	世界各地有成千上萬的年輕人可以打破 , 讓這個世界變得更好 。
the most important message of roots and shoots: every single one of us makes a difference , every single day .	最重要的訊息是根和芽 , 我們每個人每一天都能有所不同 。
we have a choice . every one of us in this room , we have a choice as to what kind of difference we want to make .	我們有選擇 。 在座的每個人 , 我們都有選擇 , 來決定我們想要做什麼樣的差異 。
the very poor have no choice . it's up to us to change things so that the poor have choice as well .	窮人沒有選擇 , 我們要改變事物 , 讓窮人也有選擇 。
the roots and shoots groups all choose three projects .	樹根和芽團體都選擇了三個計畫 。
it depends on how old they are , and which country , whether they're in a city or rural , as to what kinds of projects .	這取決於他們有多古老 , 以及哪個國家 , 不論他們在城市或鄉村 , 都取決於什麼樣的計畫 。
but basically , we have programs now from preschool right through university , with more and more adults starting their own roots and shoots groups .	但 , 基本上 , 我們現在有來自學齡前學院的計畫 , 越來越多的成年人開始自己的根和芽團體 。
and every group chooses , between them , three different kinds of project to make this a better world , recognizing that all these different problems are interconnected and impinge on each other .	每一組選舉 , 在他們之間 , 三個不同的項目 , 來讓這個更美好的世界 , 認知到所有這些不同的問題都是互相連結的 , 並互相阻礙 。
so one of their projects will be to help their own human community .	其中一個計畫是幫助他們自己的人類社群 。
and then , if they're able , they may raise money to help communities in other parts of the world .	然後 , 如果他們能做到 , 他們可能會募到錢來協助世界上其他地方的社區 。
one of their projects will be to help animals not just wildlife , domestic animals as well .	其中一項計畫是協助動物 , 不只是野生動物 , 家畜動物 。
and one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share .	其中一個計畫是幫助我們共享的環境 。
and woven throughout all of this is a message of learning to live in peace and harmony within ourselves , in our families , in our communities , between nations , between cultures , between religions and between us and the natural world .	在這整個過程中 , 要傳達自我和平和和諧的訊息 , 在我們的家庭、我們的社區、國家、文化、宗教之間 , 和我們之間的宗教之間 。
we need the natural world . we cannot go on destroying it at the rate we are .	我們需要自然的世界 。 我們不能以我們的速度來摧毀它 。
we not do have more than this one planet .	我們的確沒有超過這個星球 。
just picking one or two of the projects right here in africa that the roots and shoots groups are doing , one or two projects only in tanzania , in uganda , kenya , south africa , congobrazzaville , sierra leone , cameroon and other groups . and as i say , it's in 97 countries around the world .	這裡有一到兩項計畫 , 非洲的根和芽團體正在進行 , 只有在坦尚尼亞、烏干達、肯亞、南非、剛果、獅子山共和國、喀麥隆和其他團體 。 如我所說 , 它是在世界上97個國家 。
of course , they're planting trees . they're growing organic vegetables .	當然 , 他們正在種樹 , 種有機蔬菜 。
they're working in the refugee camps , with chickens and selling the eggs for a little amount of money , or just using them to feed their families , and feeling a sense of pride and empowerment , because they're no longer helpless and depending on others with their vegetables and their chickens .	他們在難民營工作 , 用雞和雞把蛋賣掉 , 或用它們來餵飽他們的家人 , 並感受到驕傲和賦權 , 因為它們不再是無助的 , 依靠它們的蔬菜和雞 。
it's being used in uganda to give some psychological help to exchild soldiers .	它被用在烏干達 , 給予一些心理協助 , 讓士兵延伸 。
doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves .	這樣做 , 將他們自己帶出去 。
once again , they're useful members of society .	再一次 , 他們是有用的社會成員 。
we have this program in prisons as well .	我們在監獄裡也有這個計畫 。
so , there's no time for more roots and shoots now .	所以 , 目前沒有更多根和芽的時刻 。
but oh , they're also working on hiv/aids .	但 , 喔 , 他們也在研究愛滋病 。
that's a very important component of roots and shoots , with older kids talking to younger ones .	那是根和芽的重要成因 , 年長的孩子和年輕的孩子談話 。
and unwanted pregnancies and things like that , which young people listen to better from other youth , rather than adults .	那些沒有預期的懷孕和類似的事情 , 年輕人會傾聽其他年輕人 , 而不是成年人 。
hope . that's the question i get asked as i'm going around the world: " jane , you've seen so many terrible things , you've seen your chimpanzees decrease in number from about one million , at the turn of the century , to no more than 150 , 000 now , and the same with so many other animals .	希望 。 這也是我在世界各地所面臨的問題: 「 珍 , 你看過這麼多可怕的事情 , 你看過你的黑猩猩 , 從一百萬分之一 , 到現在 , 沒有超過150 , 000隻 , 和許多其他動物一樣 。
forests disappearing , deserts where once there was forest .	森林消失了 , 一旦有森林 , 沙漠就在那裡 。
do you really have hope ? " well , yes .	你真的有希望嗎 ? 」 是的 。
you can't come to a conference like ted and not have hope , can you ?	你不能來像ted這樣的研討會 , 沒有希望 , 你能嗎 ?
and of course , there's hope . one is this amazing human brain .	當然 , 有希望 。 一個是令人驚嘆的人類大腦 。
and i mean , think of the technologies .	我的意思是 , 想想科技 。
and i've just been so thrilled , finally , to come to people talking about compost latrines .	我一直很興奮 , 最後 , 來到人們談到作曲線 。
it's one of my hobbyhorses .	這是我的嗜好之一 。
we just flush all this water down the lavatory , it's terrible .	我們就把這些水沖到水道下 , 很糟糕 。
and then talking about renewable energy desperately important .	接著 , 談到可再生能源極度重要 。
do we care about the planet for our children ?	我們是否關心孩子的星球 ?
how many of us have children or grandchildren , nieces , nephews ?	我們有多少人有孩子或孫子、姪子、姪子 ?
do we care about their future ?	我們是否在乎他們的未來 ?
and if we care about their future , we , as the elite around the world , we can do something about it . we can make choices as to how we live each day .	如果我們關心他們的未來 , 我們身為世界各地的菁英 , 我們就能做點什麼 。 我們可以選擇每天的生活方式 。
what we buy . what we wear .	我們買了什麼、穿什麼、穿什麼 。
and choose to make these choices with the question , how will this affect the environment around me ?	選擇用這些問題來做選擇 , 這會如何影響我周遭的環境 ?
how will it affect the life of my child when he or she grows up ?	當他或她長大後 , 會如何影響我的孩子 ?
or my grandchild , or whatever it is .	或我的孫子 , 或任何東西 。
so the human brain , coupled with the human heart , and we join hands around the world .	所以 , 人類的大腦 , 與人類的心相結合 , 我們加入了世界各地 。
and that's what ted is helping so well with , and google who help us , and esri are helping us with mapping in gombe national park .	ted的幫助很大 , google也幫助我們 , esri也幫助我們 , esri也幫助我們在gombe國家公園的地圖 。
all of these technologies we can use .	所有我們能使用的科技 。
now let's link them , and it's beginning to happen , isn't it ?	現在讓我們把它們連結起來 , 開始發生 , 不是嗎 ?
you've heard about it this afternoon . it's beginning to happen .	你們已經聽過這個下午 , 開始發生了 。
this change , this change . to see change that we must have if we care about the future .	這種改變 , 這種改變 。 看看如果我們關心未來 , 我們一定有的改變 。
and the next reason for hope nature is amazingly resilient .	希望大自然的下一個理由是驚人的恢復力 。
you can take an area that's absolutely destroyed , with time and perhaps some help it can regenerate .	你可以拿一個完全摧毀的區域 , 隨著時間 , 或許還有一些幫助可以再生 。
and an example is the tacare program .	一個例子是計程車計畫 。
i told you , where a seemingly dead tree stump if you stop hacking them for firewood , which you don't need to because you have wood lots , then in five years you can have a 30foot tree .	我告訴各位 , 看似死掉的樹木 , 如果你停止為消防栓 , 你不需要因為你有木材 , 五年內 , 就可以有三十英尺長的樹木 。
and animals , almost on the brink of extinction , can be given a second chance . that's my next book .	而動物 , 幾乎在滅絕的邊緣 , 可以得到第二次機會 。 這是我的下一本書 。
it's inspiring . and it brings me to my last category of hope , and we've heard about this so much in the last two days: this indomitable human spirit . this determination of people , the resilience of the human spirit , so that people who you would think would be battered by poverty , or disease , or whatever , can pull themselves up out of it , sometimes with a helping hand , and take their part in society , and take their part in changing the world .	它很有啟發性 。 它帶我到最後一個希望類別 , 我們在過去的兩天中聽到了這麼多關於這種不可避免的人類精神 , 人類精神的韌性 , 所以你認為會被貧窮或疾病所侵害的人 , 或者 , 不論如何 , 都可以把自己趕出去 , 有時 , 透過協助手 , 和社會的一部分 , 改變他們的世界 。
and just to think of one or two people out of africa who are just really inspiring .	想想非洲有一到兩個人 , 他們真的很鼓舞人心 。
we could make a very long list , but obviously nelson mandela , emerging from 17 years of hard physical labor , 23 years of imprisonment , with this amazing ability to forgive , so that he could lead his nation out the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath .	我們可以列出很長的清單 , 但很顯然 , 曼德拉從17年的艱難實體勞動中湧現 , 23年的監禁性 , 讓他可以帶領他的國家 , 讓他沒有血腥的邪惡政權 。
ken sarowiwa , in nigeria , who took on the giant oil companies , and although people around the world tried their best , was executed .	kensarowiwa , 在奈及利亞 , 他採用了巨型石油公司 , 雖然全世界的人都盡了最好的努力 , 被執行 。
people like this are so inspirational .	像這樣的人是如此的鼓舞人心 。
people like this are the role models we need for young africans .	像這樣的人是年輕非洲人所需要的榜樣 。
and we need some environmental role models as well , and i've been hearing some of them today .	我們也需要一些環保的榜樣 , 今天我也聽到了其中一些 。
so i'm really grateful for this opportunity to share this message again , with everyone at ted .	所以 , 我真的很感激這個機會能再次分享這個訊息 , 和ted的所有人分享 。
and i hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things , especially the roots and shoots program .	我希望我們當中有些人可以聚在一起 , 談論這些事 , 特別是根和芽計畫 。
and just a last word on that the young woman who's running this entire conference center , i met her today .	最後一個詞語是 , 經營這整個會議中心的年輕女子 , 我今天見到她 。
she came up so excited , with her certificate . she was [in] roots and shoots .	她很興奮 , 用她的證據 , 她是根和芽 。
she was in the leadership in dar es salaam .	她在達爾•薩拉姆的領導力 。
she said it's helped her to do what she's doing .	她說 , 是幫助她做她正在做的事 。
and it was very , very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people , when they are empowered , given the opportunity to take action , to make the world a better place , truly are our hope for tomorrow .	對我來說 , 很興奮 , 讓我很興奮 , 看看年輕人如何被賦予力量 , 給予機會 , 讓世界變得更美好 , 真正是我們明天的希望 。
artist dianna cohen shares some tough truths about plastic pollution in the ocean and in our lives and some thoughts on how to free ourselves from the plastic gyre .	藝術家dannacohen分享了一些艱難的事實 , 關於塑膠污染的真相 , 以及我們生活中的一些思想 , 如何將我們自己從塑膠體中解放出來 。
consumerism , global issues , green , mission blue , oceans , plastic	消費主義、全球議題、綠色、使命藍色、海洋、塑膠、塑膠 。
dianna cohen: tough truths about plastic pollution	黛安娜.庫恩:關於塑膠污染的艱難真理:關於塑膠污染的艱難真理 。
i'm a visual artist , and i'm also one of the cofounders of the plastic pollution coalition .	我是一個視覺藝術家 , 我也是塑膠污染聯盟的共同創辦人之一 。
i've been working with plastic bags , which i cut up and sew back together as my primary material for my artwork for the last 20 years .	我一直在用塑膠袋 , 把塑膠袋切開 , 把它們縫在一起 , 用在我過去二十年的藝術作品中 。
i turn them into two and threedimensional pieces and sculptures and installations .	我把它們變成兩個三維的碎片、雕塑和裝置 。
upon working with the plastic , after about the first eight years , some of my work started to fissure and break down into smaller little bits of plastic .	和塑膠一起工作 , 大約十八年後 , 我的一些作品開始融化 , 分解成小小的塑膠 。
and i thought , " great .	我心想: 「 太棒了 。
it's ephemeral just like us . "	和我們一樣是多元的 。 」
upon educating myself a little further about plastics , i actually realized this was a bad thing .	教育我自己更進一步教育塑膠 , 我發現這是一件壞事 。
it's a bad thing that plastic breaks down into smaller little bits , because it's always still plastic .	塑膠會把塑膠分成小一點點 , 因為它一直都是塑膠 。
and what we're finding is that a lot of it is in the marine environment .	我們所發現的是 , 很多在海洋環境中 。
i then , in the last few years , learned about the pacific garbage patch and the gyre .	然後 , 在過去幾年 , 我學到了太平洋垃圾堆和蓋爾 。
and my initial reaction and i think this is a lot of people's first reaction to learning about it is , " oh my god !	而我最初的反應 , 我認為這是很多人最早的反應 , 就是 「 天啊 !
we've got to go out there and clean this thing up . "	我們必須去那裡清理這個東西 。 」
so i actually developed a proposal to go out with a cargo ship and two decommissioned fishing trawlers , a crane , a chipping machine and a coldmolding machine .	所以 , 我真的開發了一個提案 , 用一艘貨船和兩艘被驅逐的捕魚拖網 , 一台拖車 , 一台拖車 , 一台冷卻的機器 。
and my intention was to go out to the gyre , raise awareness about this issue and begin to pick up the plastic , chip it into little bits and cold mold it into bricks that could potentially be used as building materials in underdeveloped communities .	我的意圖是去到健身房 , 開始意識到這個議題 , 開始將塑膠切片切成碎片 , 冷卻的磚塊 , 可以用來當作隱藏社區的材料 。
i began talking with people who actually had been out to the gyre and were studying the plastic problem in the marine environment and upon doing so , i realized actually that cleaning it up would be a very small drop in the bucket relative to how much is being generated every day around the world , and that actually i needed to back up and look at the bigger picture .	我開始和那些真的去過健身和研究海洋環境中的塑膠問題談話 , 等等 , 我意識到 , 清理這些東西會是非常小的一滴 , 和全世界每天所產生的物質有多大 , 我真的需要回到過去 , 看看更大的照片 。
and the bigger picture is: we need to find a way to turn off the faucet .	更大的圖片是:我們需要找到一個方法來關閉水面 。
we need to cut the spigot of singleuse and disposable plastics , which are entering the marine environment every day on a global scale .	我們需要把單一use和不可取代塑膠的位置切割在全球各地的環境中 。
so in looking at that , i also realized that i was really angry .	仔細看 , 我也了解到 , 我真的很生氣 。
i wasn't just concerned about plastic that you're trying to imagine out in the middle of the pacific ocean of which i have learned there are now 11 gyres , potentially , of plastic in five major oceans in the world .	我不只關心塑膠 , 你在太平洋中間的想像 , 我學到現在有11個冰河 , 可能是世界上五個主要的海洋 。
it's not just that gyre of plastic that i'm concerned about it's the gyre of plastic in the supermarket .	不單只是我擔心的塑膠小屋 , 是超級市場的塑膠小屋 。
i'd go to the supermarket and all of my food is packaged in plastic .	我會去超市 , 所有的食物都包含在塑膠上 。
all of my beverages are packaged in plastic , even at the health food market .	我的所有平均都是塑膠包裝 , 甚至是健康食物市場 。
i'm also concerned about the plastic in the refrigerator , and i'm concerned about the plastic and the toxins that leach from plastic into us and into our bodies .	我也關心冰箱裡的塑膠 , 我關心塑膠和從塑膠帶到我們體內的毒素 。
so i came together with a group of other people who were all looking at this issue , and we created the plastic pollution coalition .	所以我和一群人一起研究這個議題 , 我們創造了塑膠污染聯盟 。
we have many initiatives that we're working on , but some of them are very basic .	我們有許多計畫 , 我們正在努力 , 但有些是非常基本的 。
one is: if 80 to 90 percent of what we're finding in the ocean of the marine debris that we're finding in the ocean is plastic , then why don't we call it what it is .	一是:如果我們在海洋中發現的生物有百分之八十到九十--我們在海洋中發現的生物是塑膠 , 那為什麼我們不把它稱之為它是什麼 。
recycling everybody kind of ends their books about being sustainable and greening with the idea of recycling .	回收所有人的書 , 都是關於永續和綠化 , 關於回收的概念 。
you put something in a bin and you don't have to think about it again .	你把某樣東西放進一個桶子裡 , 你不用再想一想 。
what is the reality of that ?	這是什麼樣的現實呢 ?
in the united states , less than seven percent of our plastics are recycled .	在美國 , 不到7%的塑膠回收 。
and if you really look into it , particularly when it comes to plastic bottles , most of it is only downcycled , or incinerated , or shipped to china .	如果你真的仔細觀察 , 尤其是當到塑膠瓶時 , 大部分的瓶子只會被回收 , 或被送到中國 。
it is downcycled and turned into lesser things , while a glass bottle can be a glass bottle again or can be used again a plastic bottle can never be a plastic bottle again .	它被降低 , 變成更少的東西 , 而玻璃瓶可以再次成為玻璃瓶 , 或是可以再次使用塑膠瓶 , 永遠不會是塑膠瓶 。
so this is a big issue for us .	這對我們來說是個大問題 。
another thing that we're looking at and asking people to think about is we've added a fourth r onto the front of the " reduce , reuse , recycle , " three r's , and that is refuse .	我們看到的另一件事是 , 請大家思考一下 , 我們在 「 減少、再利用、回收 」 前面加了第四個節目 , 拒絕了 。
whenever possible , refuse singleuse and disposable plastics .	不論如何 , 都拒絕單一和可取的塑膠 。
alternatives exist ; some of them are very oldschool .	替代方案存在 , 有些是很古老的學者 。
i myself am now collecting these cool pyrex containers and using those instead of glad and tupperware containers to store food in .	我現在正在收集這些很酷的pyrex容器 , 用這些裝置 , 而不是放鬆和提醒容器來儲存食物 。
and i know that i am doing a service to myself and my family .	我知道我在為自己和家人做一個服務 。
it's very easy to pick up a stainlesssteel bottle or a glass bottle , if you're traveling and you've forgotten to bring your stainlesssteel bottle and fill that up with water or filtered water , versus purchasing plastic bottled water .	很容易就能拿起一瓶無菌的瓶子或玻璃瓶 , 如果你在旅行 , 你就忘了把你的不穩定的瓶子裝滿水或過濾過濾的水 , 對抗塑膠瓶瓶水 。
i guess what i want to say to everybody here and i know that you guys know a lot about this issue is that this is a huge problem in the oceans , but this is a problem that we've created as consumers and we can solve .	我猜我想跟大家說的 , 我知道你們都知道這個議題 , 就是這在海洋中是個很大的問題 , 但這是我們作為消費者所創造的一個問題 , 我們可以解決這個問題 。
we can solve this by raising awareness of the issue and teaching people to choose alternatives .	我們可以藉由提高警覺的認知和教導人們選擇替代方案 。
so whenever possible , to choose alternatives to singleuse plastics .	所以 , 無論何時 , 選擇用到單一塑膠的替代品 。
we can cut the stem tide the stem of this into our oceans and in doing so , save our oceans , save our planet , save ourselves .	我們可以把這首詩切成我們的海洋 , 這樣做 , 拯救我們的海洋 , 拯救我們的地球 , 拯救我們自己 。
this demo from pattie maes' lab at mit , spearheaded by pranav mistry was the buzz of ted . it's a wearable device with a projector that paves the way for profound interaction with our environment . imagine " minority report " and then some .	在麻省理工學院的帕特•馬斯的實驗室 , 被帕拉維•密爾指的是ted的一個可穿戴式裝置 , 一個投影機 , 讓環境深刻的互動 。 想像 「 少數報告 」 和 「 少數性報告 」 。
demo , design , interface design , technology	demo , 設計 , 介面設計 , 科技 , 科技 。
pattie maes and pranav mistry demo sixthsense	帕蒂•馬斯和帕拉夫•帕拉夫•密特摩第六感 。
i've been intrigued by this question of whether we could evolve or develop a sixth sense a sense that would give us seamless access and easy access to metainformation or information that may exist somewhere that may be relevant to help us make the right decision about whatever it is that we're coming across .	我對這個問題很感興趣 , 不論我們能否進化或發展出第六感 , 一種感官 , 能讓我們無縫的接觸、容易取得的資訊 , 或許能協助我們做出正確的決策 , 來協助我們做出正確的決策 。
and some of you may argue , well , don't today's cell phones do that already ?	有些人可能會說 , 嗯 , 今天的手機不是已經做到的嗎 ?
but i would say no .	但我會說 , 不 。
when you meet someone here at ted and this is the top networking place , of course , of the year you don't shake somebody's hand and then say , " can you hold on for a moment while i take out my phone and google you ? "	當你在ted碰到某個人 , 當然是最頂尖的網絡 , 你不會搖著某人的手 , 然後說: 「 你能不能在我拿出手機的時候抓住你嗎 ? 」
or when you go to the supermarket and you're standing there in that huge aisle of different types of toilet papers , you don't take out your cell phone , and open a browser , and go to a website to try to decide which of these different toilet papers is the most ecologically responsible purchase to make .	或當你去超市 , 你站在那一大堆不同的廁所文件中 , 你不會拿出你的手機 , 打開瀏覽器 , 然後去一個網站 , 試著決定這些不同的廁所報紙是最合理的購買法 。
so we don't really have easy access to all this relevant information that can just help us make optimal decisions about what to do next and what actions to take .	所以 , 我們沒有很容易取得相關的資訊 , 只能協助我們做出最佳決定 , 決定下一步要做什麼 , 以及採取行動 。
and so my research group at the media lab has been developing a series of inventions to give us access to this information in a sort of easy way , without requiring that the user changes any of their behavior .	所以 , 我在媒體實驗室的研究小組已經開發了一系列的發明 , 以一種簡單的方式 , 不需要使用者改變他們的行為 。
and i'm here to unveil our latest effort , and most successful effort so far , which is still very much a work in process .	我來這裡是要揭開我們最新的努力 , 到目前為止 , 這種努力仍是非常成功的過程 。
i'm actually wearing the device right now and we've sort of cobbled it together with components that are off the shelf and that , by the way , only cost 350 dollars at this point in time .	我現在正穿著這個裝置 , 我們將它與裝置的零件混合在一起 , 順便一提 , 目前只花了350美元 。
i'm wearing a camera , just a simple webcam , a portable , batterypowered projection system with a little mirror .	我穿著相機 , 只是一個簡單的網路攝影機 , 一個可攜式、電池發射的投影機 , 一個小鏡子 。
these components communicate to my cell phone in my pocket which acts as the communication and computation device .	這些元件通訊到我的口袋裡的手機 , 它是通訊和運算裝置 。
and in the video here we see my student pranav mistry , who's really the genius who's been implementing and designing this whole system .	在這段影片中 , 我們看到我的學生pranav遺產 , 他是實施和設計這整個系統的天才 。
and we see how this system lets him walk up to any surface and start using his hands to interact with the information that is projected in front of him .	我們可以看到這個系統讓他走到任何表面 , 開始用他的手去和他前面投射在他面前的資訊互動 。
the system tracks the four significant fingers .	系統會追蹤四個手指 。
in this case , he's wearing simple marker caps that you may recognize .	在這個案例中 , 他戴著簡單的標記帽 , 你可能認得出來 。
but if you want a more stylish version you could also paint your nails in different colors .	但如果你想要一個更具體的版本 , 你也可以用不同的顏色畫出你的指甲 。
and the camera basically tracks these four fingers and recognizes any gestures that he's making so he can just go to , for example , a map of long beach , zoom in and out , etc .	攝影機基本上追蹤了這四個手指 , 並認出任何他正在製作的姿勢 , 例如 , 長灘的地圖 , 放大 , 等等 。
the system also recognizes iconic gestures such as the " take a picture " gesture , and then takes a picture of whatever is in front of you .	系統也能辨識出有標準的姿勢 , 例如 「 拍照 」 姿勢 , 然後拍攝你面前的任何東西 。
and when he then walks back to the media lab , he can just go up to any wall and project all the pictures that he's taken , sort through them and organize them , and resize them , etc . , again using all natural gestures .	當他回到媒體實驗室時 , 他可以走到任何牆上 , 投影所有他拍攝的照片 , 將它們組織起來 , 再次用所有自然的姿態 。
so , some of you most likely were here two years ago and saw the demo by jeff han or some of you may think , " well , doesn't this look like the microsoft surface table ? "	所以 , 兩年前有些人可能在場 , 看到傑夫•漢斯或有些人可能會想: 「 嗯 , 這不是微軟表面嗎 ? 」
and yes , you also interact using natural gestures , both hands , etc .	是的 , 你也用自然的姿勢互動 , 雙手等等 。
but the difference here is that you can use any surface , you can walk to up to any surface , including your hand if nothing else is available and interact with this projected data .	但這裡的差別是 , 你可以用任何表面 , 你可以走到任何表面 , 包括你的手 , 如果沒有其他東西可以用 , 和這個投影的資料互動 。
the device is completely portable , and can be . . .	這個裝置是完全可攜式的 , 可以是......
so one important difference is that it's totally mobile .	一個重要的差別是它完全是行動 。
another even more important difference is that in mass production this would not cost more tomorrow than today's cell phones and would actually not sort of be a bigger packaging could look a lot more stylish than this version that i'm wearing around my neck .	另一個更重要的差異是 , 在大量生產中 , 明天的成本不會比現今的手機更高 , 實際上 , 包裝不會更大 , 比我在脖子上穿的版本還要多 。
but other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as tom cruise in " minority report , " the reason why we're really excited about this device is that it really can act as one of these sixthsense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you .	但 , 除了讓你們之外 , 你們之中 , 看起來很酷 , 在 「 少數民族報告報告 」 中 , 我們對這個裝置的理由是它真的可以作為這六感裝置之一 , 讓你對你面前的任何資訊有相關性 。
so we see pranav here going into the supermarket and he's shopping for some paper towels .	我們看到帕拉病毒進入超市 , 他正在購物一些紙巾 。
and , as he picks up a product the system can recognize the product that he's picking up , using either image recognition or marker technology , and give him the green light or an orange light .	當他拿起一個產品時 , 系統可以辨識出他拿起的產品 , 使用影像辨識或標記技術 , 給他綠光或橘光 。
he can ask for additional information .	他可以請求額外的資訊 。
so this particular choice here is a particularly good choice , given his personal criteria .	這種特定的選擇是特別好的選擇 , 因為他個人的標準 。
some of you may want the toilet paper with the most bleach in it rather than the most ecologicallyresponsible choice .	有些人可能會想要有最多的廁所紙 , 而不是最有責任的選擇 。
if he picks up a book in the bookstore , he can get an amazon rating it gets projected right on the cover of the book .	如果他在書店裡拿起一本書 , 他就可以拿到亞馬遜評分 , 就會在書的封面上投影出來 。
this is juan's book , our previous speaker , which gets a great rating , by the way , at amazon .	這是胡安的書 , 我們先前的演講者 , 順便一提 , 亞馬遜的評級 。
and so , pranav turns the page of the book and can then see additional information about the book reader comments , maybe sort of information by his favorite critic , etc .	所以 , 帕拉夫將這本書的頁面轉變 , 再來看看這本書的讀者評論 , 也許是他最喜歡的批評者的資訊 。
if he turns to a particular page he finds an annotation by maybe an expert of a friend of ours that gives him a little bit of additional information about whatever is on that particular page .	如果他轉到一個特別的頁面 , 他會找到一個朋友的註解 , 給予他一點額外的資訊 , 關於那個頁面的任何資訊 。
reading the newspaper it never has to be outdated .	閱讀報紙永遠不需要太過時了 。
you can get video annotations of the event that you're reading about you can get the latest sports scores etc .	你可以得到你正在閱讀的事件的影片註解 , 你可以得到最新的運動分數等等 。
this is a more controversial one .	這是一個更具爭議性的 。
as you interact with someone at ted , maybe you can see a word cloud of the tags , the words that are associated with that person in their blog and personal web pages .	當你和ted的某個人互動時 , 也許你會看到一個標籤的字 , 和那個人在他們的部落格和個人網頁中連結的字 。
in this case , the student is interested in cameras , etc .	在這個例子中 , 學生對攝影機有興趣 , 等等 。
on your way to the airport , if you pick up your boarding pass , it can tell you that your flight is delayed , that the gate has changed , etc .	在你到機場的路上 , 如果你拿起你的登機 , 它可以告訴你你的飛行裝置被延遲 , 閘門已經改變了 , 等等 。
and , if you need to know what the current time is it's as simple as drawing a watch on your arm .	如果你需要知道目前的時機 , 簡單地在你的手臂上畫手錶 。
so that's where we're at so far in developing this sixth sense that would give us seamless access to all this relevant information about the things that we may come across .	所以 , 到目前為止 , 我們正在發展這六感 , 使我們無法取得所有相關的資訊 , 關於我們可能遇到的事物 。
my student pranav , who's really , like i said , the genius behind this .	我的學生帕拉夫 , 真的很像我說的 , 背後的天才 。
he does deserve a lot of applause because i don't think he's slept much in the last three months , actually .	他的確值得很多掌聲 , 因為我不認為他在過去三個月裡睡得太多了 。
and his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either .	他的女朋友可能也不太開心 。
but it's not perfect yet , it's very much a work in progress .	但這還不完美 , 進步很多 。
and who knows , maybe in another 10 years we'll be here with the ultimate sixth sense brain implant .	誰知道 , 或許在接下來的十年 , 我們將來會有六感大腦植入 。
phyllis rodriguez and aicha elwafi have a powerful friendship born of unthinkable loss . rodriguez' son was killed in the world trade center attacks on september 11 , 2001 ; elwafi's son zacarias moussaoui was convicted of a role in those attacks and is serving a life sentence . in hoping to find peace , these two moms have come to understand and respect one another .	菲利莎•羅德里格茲和艾瑞莎有一位強大的友誼 , 充滿了不可思議的失去 , 羅德•索維茲的兒子在9月11日被殺害 , 2001年9月11日 , 艾爾菲的兒子•桑卡薩尼在那些攻擊中被判定扮演的角色 , 希望能找到和平 , 這兩位母親來來來來來互相尊敬 。
culture , global issues , politics	文化、全球議題、政治議題、政治議題、
9/11 healing: the mothers who found forgiveness , friendship	911的治癒方式:找到寬恕、友誼、友誼的母親 。
phyllis rodriguez: we are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship .	菲利斯•羅德里格茲:我們今天來到這裡 , 因為我們有大多數人認為不尋常的友誼 。
and yet , it feels natural to us now .	然而 , 對我們來說 , 感覺很自然 。
i first learned that my son had been in the world trade center on the morning of september 11th , 2001 .	我第一次了解到 , 我的兒子在2001年9月11日的9月11日貿易中心 。
we didn't know if he had perished yet until 36 hours later .	我們不知道他是否曾在36小時後被判死刑 。
at the time , we knew that it was political .	當時 , 我們知道它是政治的 。
we were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son my husband , orlando , and i and our family .	我們害怕我們的國家會用我兒子的名字 , 奧蘭多 , 我和我們的家人 。
and when i saw it and yet , through the shock , the terrible shock , and the terrible explosion in our lives , literally , we were not vengeful .	當我看到它時 , 經過震驚 , 震驚的震驚 , 以及我們生活中可怕的爆炸 , 真的是 , 我們還沒有復仇 。
and a couple of weeks later when zacarias moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism , and the u . s . government called for a death penalty for him , if convicted , my husband and i spoke out in opposition to that , publicly .	幾週後 , 扎卡亞斯•莫薩烏伊被指責犯下恐怖主義 , 美國政府為他打電話給死刑 , 如果被判死刑 , 我先生和我公開對話 。
through that and through human rights groups , we were brought together with several other victims' families .	透過這些人權團體 , 我們和許多其他受害者的家庭聚在一起 。
when i saw aicha in the media , coming over when her son was indicted , and i thought , " what a brave woman .	當我在媒體上看到aicha時 , 她兒子被指控過來 , 我心想: 「 一個勇敢的女人 。
someday i want to meet that woman when i'm stronger . "	有一天 , 我想要在我更強壯的時候見到那個女人 。 」
i was still in deep grief ; i knew i didn't have the strength .	我還在很深的悲傷中 , 我知道我沒有力量 。
i knew i would find her someday , or we would find each other .	我知道有一天我會找到她 , 或我們會找到彼此 。
because , when people heard that my son was a victim , i got immediate sympathy .	因為 , 當人們聽到我的兒子是受害者 , 我立即有同理心 。
but when people learned what her son was accused of , she didn't get that sympathy .	但當人們知道她兒子被指控的是什麼時 , 她並沒有得到那種同理心 。
but her suffering is equal to mine .	但她的痛苦和我一樣 。
so we met in november 2002 , and aicha will now tell you how that came about .	所以 , 我們在2002年11月見面 , aicha現在會告訴你這怎麼回事 。
aicha elwafi: good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen .	aichaelwafi:午安 , 各位先生女士 。
i am the mother of zacarias moussaoui .	我是zacaria的母親 。
and i asked the organization of human rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims .	我詢問了人權組織 , 讓我與受害者的父母接觸 。
so they introduced me to five families .	他們把我介紹給五個家庭 。
and i saw phyllis , and i watched her .	我看到了phyllis , 我看了她 。
she was the only mother in the group .	她是群體中唯一的母親 。
the others were brothers , sisters .	其他人是兄弟 , 姐妹 。
and i saw in her eyes that she was a mother , just like me .	我在她的眼中看到她是母親 , 就像我一樣 。
i suffered a lot as a mother .	我身為母親 , 受苦很多 。
i was married when i was 14 .	我十四歲時結婚了 。
i lost a child when i was 15 , a second child when i was 16 .	我十五歲時失去了一個孩子 , 我十六歲時 , 第二個孩子 。
so the story with zacarias was too much really .	所以 , zacaria的故事實在太大了 。
and i still suffer , because my son is like he's buried alive .	我仍然感到痛苦 , 因為我兒子就好像被埋葬了一樣 。
i know she really cried for her son .	我知道她真的為她兒子哭了 。
but she knows where he is .	但她知道他在哪裡 。
my son , i don't know where he is .	我的兒子 , 我不知道他在哪裡 。
i don't know if he's alive . i don't know if he's tortured .	我不知道他是否活著 , 我不知道他有沒有被折磨 。
i don't know what happened to him .	我不知道他發生了什麼事 。
so that's why i decided to tell my story , so that my suffering is something positive for other women .	這就是為什麼我決定要說我的故事 , 所以 , 我的痛苦對其他女性來說是正面的 。
for all the women , all the mothers that give life , you can give back , you can change .	所有婦女 , 所有給予生命的母親 , 你可以回饋 , 你可以改變 。
it's up to us women , because we are women , because we love our children .	因為我們是女性 , 因為我們是女性 , 因為我們愛我們的孩子 。
we must be handinhand and do something together .	我們必須雙手做點什麼 。
it's not against women , it's for us , for us women , for our children .	不是對女人 , 而是對我們 , 對我們女性 , 對我們的孩子 。
i talk against violence , against terrorism .	我反對暴力 , 反對恐怖主義 。
i go to schools to talk to young , muslim girls so they don't accept to be married against their will very young .	我去學校跟年輕的穆斯林女孩說話 , 所以她們不接受和她們的意志結婚 。
so if i can save one of the young girls , and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as i did , well this is something good .	所以 , 如果我能拯救其中一位年輕女孩 , 避免她們和我一樣結婚和受苦 , 嗯 , 這是件好事 。
this is why i'm here in front of you .	這就是為什麼我站在你們面前 。
pr: i would like to say that i have learned so much from aicha , starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members which was a very private meeting with security , because it was november 2002 , and , frankly , we were afraid of the superpatriotism of that time in the country those of us family members .	pr:我想說 , 我從aicha學到很多 , 從那天開始 , 我們和其他家族成員第一次見面 , 那是一個非常私人的會議 , 因為這是2002年11月 , 坦白說 , 我們害怕那個時候在美國的超父主義 。
but we were all so nervous .	但我們都很緊張 。
" why does she want to meet us ? "	「 為什麼她要見我們 ? 」
and then she was nervous .	然後她又緊張了 。
" why did we want to meet her ? "	「 為什麼我們要見她 ? 」
what did we want from each other ?	我們彼此想要什麼 ?
before we knew each others' names , or anything , we had embraced and wept .	在我們認識彼此的名字之前 , 我們已經擁抱和wept 。
then we sat in a circle with support , with help , from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation .	接著 , 我們在一個充滿支持的圈子裡 , 協助 , 從人們體驗到這種解析 。
and aicha started , and she said , " i don't know if my son is guilty or innocent , but i want to tell you how sorry i am for what happened to your families .	aicha開始 , 她說: 「 我不知道我的兒子有罪或無辜 , 但我想告訴你們 , 我對你的家人有多抱歉 。
i know what it is to suffer , and i feel that if there is a crime , a person should be tried fairly and punished . "	我知道要承受什麼 , 我覺得如果有犯罪 , 一個人應該是公平的、懲罰 。 」
but she reached out to us in that way , and it was , i'd like to say , it was an icebreaker .	但她用這種方式向我們伸出援手 , 我想要說 , 那是個冰箱 。
and what happened then is we all told our stories , and we all connected as human beings .	接下來發生的是 , 我們都告訴我們自己的故事 , 我們都是人的連結 。
by the end of the afternoon it was about three hours after lunch we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever .	到了下午的結束 , 午餐三小時後 , 我們感覺到 , 彷彿我們永遠認識彼此 。
now what i learned from her , is a woman , not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then , and what was being done to her son , but the life she's had .	我從她身上學到的是 , 一個女人 , 不僅是她在這些現在的情況下如此慷慨 , 以及她對她的兒子所做的事 , 還有她所擁有的生命 。
i never had met someone with such a hard life , from such a totally different culture and environment from my own .	我從來沒有遇過這麼難過的人 , 從這樣一個完全不同的文化和環境中 。
and i feel that we have a special connection , which i value very much .	我覺得我們有一個特別的連結 , 我非常重視它 。
and i think it's all about being afraid of the other , but making that step and then realizing , " hey , this wasn't so hard .	我覺得這一切都要害怕他人 , 但要讓這一步 , 然後意識到: 「 嘿 , 這並不難 。
who else can i meet that i don't know , or that i'm so different from ? "	我還能碰到我不知道的 , 或是我和誰不同 ? 」
so , aicha , do you have a couple of words for conclusion ?	所以 , aicha , 你有沒有想出幾個字嗎 ?
because our time is up .	因為我們的時間到了 。
aw: i wanted to say that we have to try to know other people , the other .	aw:我想說的是 , 我們必須試著認識他人 , 另一個人 。
you have to be generous , and your hearts must be generous , your mind must be generous .	你必須要慷慨 , 你的心一定要慷慨 , 你的大腦必須要慷慨 。
you must be tolerant .	你一定是堅持的 。
you have to fight against violence .	你必須對抗暴力 。
and i hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other .	我希望有一天 , 我們會一起生活在和平和尊重彼此 。
this is what i wanted to say .	這是我想說的 。
too much of the world lacks access to clean drinking water . engineer michael pritchard did something about it inventing the portable lifesaver filter , which can make the most revolting water drinkable in seconds . an amazing demo from tedglobal 2009 .	世界上有太多人無法取得乾淨的飲用水 。 工程師麥可•普里卡 , 發明了可攜式的生物濾水器 , 可以在二零九年tedglobal的tedglobaltedglobal提出一個驚人的示範 。
business , demo , design , global issues , invention , technology , water	商業、demo、設計、全球議題、發明、科技、水資源、水資源、水資源 。
michael pritchard's water filter turns filthy water drinkable	michaelpritchard的水過濾器轉化為骯髒的水飲料 。
i'd like to talk about a couple of things today .	今天我想談談幾件事情 。
the first thing is water .	首先是水 。
now i see you've all been enjoying the water that's been provided for you here at the conference , over the past couple of days .	現在我看到你們都在享受這座研討會為你們提供的水 , 在過去的幾天裡 。
and i'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source .	我相信你們會覺得這是安全的來源 。
but what if it wasn't ?	但如果不是這樣呢 ?
what if it was from a source like this ?	如果它來自這樣一個來源呢 ?
then statistics would actually say that half of you would now be suffering with diarrhea .	統計數據會說 , 你們當中有一半會患有腹瀉 。
i talked a lot in the past about statistics , and the provision of safe drinking water for all .	過去我談了很多關於統計數據 , 以及所有人飲用水的建設 。
but they just don't seem to get through .	但它們似乎沒有經過 。
and i think i've worked out why .	我想我已經知道為什麼了 。
it's because , using current thinking , the scale of the problem just seems too huge to contemplate solving .	因為 , 使用目前的思維 , 問題的規模似乎太大了 , 無法思考解決問題 。
so we just switch off: us , governments and aid agencies .	所以我們就關掉:我們、政府和援助機構 。
well , today , i'd like to show you that through thinking differently , the problem has been solved .	今天 , 我想用不同的思考方式來向各位展示 , 問題已經被解決了 。
by the way , since i've been speaking , another 13 , 000 people around the world are suffering now with diarrhea .	順便一提 , 自從我開始說起 , 全世界有一萬三千人罹患腹瀉 。
and four children have just died .	四個孩子剛過世了 。
i invented lifesaver bottle because i got angry .	我發明了救生素瓶 , 因為我生氣了 。
i , like most of you , was sitting down , the day after christmas in 2004 , when i was watching the devastating news of the asian tsunami as it rolled in , playing out on tv .	我和大部分人一樣 , 在2004年聖誕節後的一天 , 當我看著亞洲海嘯的毀滅性消息 , 當時在電視上播放 。
the days and weeks that followed , people fleeing to the hills , being forced to drink contaminated water or face death .	接下來的幾天和幾週 , 人們逃到山丘 , 被迫喝下污染的水或面對死亡 。
that really stuck with me .	這真的讓我困住了 。
then , a few months later , hurricane katrina slammed into the side of america .	接著 , 幾個月後 , 卡崔娜颶風落入美國 。
" okay , " i thought , " here's a first world country , let's see what they can do . "	「 好吧 , 」 我心想: 「 這是第一個世界 , 讓我們看看他們能做什麼 。 」
do you know it took five days to get water to the superdome ?	你知道嗎 ? 要花五天才能讓水到超級室 ?
people were shooting each other on the streets for tv sets and water .	人們在街上為電視節目和水槍擊彼此 。
that's when i decided i had to do something .	那時我決定要做點什麼 。
now i spent a lot of time in my garage , over the next weeks and months , and also in my kitchen much to the dismay of my wife .	現在我花了很多時間在我的車庫裡 , 在接下來的幾週和幾個月 , 我廚房裡也對我妻子感到不安 。
however , after a few failed prototypes , i finally came up with this , the lifesaver bottle .	然而 , 在少數失敗的原型之後 , 我終於想出了這個 , 救命的瓶子 。
okay , now for the science bit .	好吧 , 現在來談談科學 。
before lifesaver , the best hand filters were only capable of filtering down to about 200 nanometers .	在生物樣本之前 , 最好的手過濾器只能過濾到大約200奈米 。
the smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers .	最小的細菌大約有200奈米 。
so a 200nanometer bacteria is going to get through a 200nanometer hole .	一個200奈米的細菌會穿過200奈米的洞 。
the smallest virus , on the other hand , is about 25 nanometers .	另一方面 , 最小的病毒大約是25奈米 。
so that's definitely going to get through those 200 nanometer holes .	所以這絕對會穿越這兩百奈米大孔 。
lifesaver pores are 15 nanometers .	生命沙龍是15奈米 。
so nothing is getting through .	所以 , 什麼都沒有 。
okay , i'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration .	好 , 我要給你們一些示範 。
would you like to see that ?	你想看到嗎 ?
i spent all the time setting this up , so i guess i should .	我花了很多時間設定這點 , 所以我猜我應該要 。
we're in the fine city of oxford .	我們在牛津城 。
so someone's done that up .	所以 , 有人這樣做 。
fine city of oxford , so what i've done is i've gone and got some water from the river cherwell , and the river thames , that flow through here . and this is the water .	牛津的城市好了 , 所以我做的是 , 我從河流中拿到了一些水 , 河流在這裡流過來 , 這是水 。
but i got to thinking , you know , if we were in the middle of a flood zone in bangladesh , the water wouldn't look like this .	但我想 , 若我們在孟加拉的洪水區中 , 水就不會像這樣 。
so i've gone and got some stuff to add into it .	所以我已經去了 , 把一些東西加進去 。
and this is from my pond .	這是我的池塘 。
have a smell of that , mister cameraman .	試試一下 , 攝影師的氣味 。
we're just going to pour that in there .	我們只是要把它倒進去 。
michael pritchard: okay . we've got some runoff from a sewage plant farm .	michaelprichard:好的 , 我們有一些從污水農場跑出來的 。
so i'm just going to put that in there .	所以 , 我要把它放進去 。
put that in there . there we go .	把它放進去 , 開始吧 。
and some other bits and pieces , chuck that in there .	另外還有一些小片段和碎片 , 卡在裡面 。
and i've got a gift here from a friend of mine's rabbit .	我有一個朋友的兔子的禮物 。
so we're just going to put that in there as well .	所以 , 我們也要把它放進去 。
the lifesaver bottle works really simply .	生物救生素瓶真的很簡單 。
you just scoop the water up .	你只要把水放上去 。
today i'm going to use a jug just to show you all . let's get a bit of that poo in there .	今天我要用一顆果汁給大家看 , 讓大家看一下裡面的小兒子 。
that's not dirty enough . let's just stir that up a little bit .	那還不夠髒 。 咱們來稍微攪拌一下 。
okay , so i'm going to take this really filthy water , and put it in here . do you want a drink yet ?	好 , 所以我要把這個非常骯髒的水放進這裡 , 你要喝嗎 ?
okay . there we go .	好 , 我們開始吧 。
give it a few pumps . okay ?	給你幾個幫浦 , 好嗎 ?
that's all that's necessary .	這是必要的 。
now as soon as i pop the teat , sterile drinking water is going to come out .	一旦我把脂肪抽出來 , 固定的飲用水就會出去 。
i've got to be quick . okay , ready ?	我得很快 , 好 , 準備好了嗎 ?
there we go . mind the electrics .	就這樣 , 請注意電力 。
that is safe , sterile drinking water .	那是安全、穩定的飲用水 。
there you go chris .	克里斯 。
what's it taste of ?	它的味道是什麼 ?
let's see chris's program throughout the rest of the show . okay ?	咱們來看看克里斯在其他節目裡的程式 。 好嗎 ?
okay . lifesaver bottle is used by thousands of people around the world .	好的 , 世界各地有成千上萬的人使用過生命瓶 。
it'll last for 6 , 000 liters .	它會維持六千公升 。
and when it's expired , using failsafe technology , the system will shut off , protecting the user .	當它爆炸時 , 使用失敗的技術 , 系統就會關閉 , 保護使用者 。
pop the cartridge out . pop a new one in .	把這張卡路里趕出去 , 再打個新東西 。
it's good for another 6 , 000 liters .	對另一萬六千公升來說是好的 。
so let's look at the applications .	咱們來看看這個應用 。
traditionally , in a crisis , what do we do ?	傳統上 , 在危機中 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
then , after a few weeks , we set up camps .	然後 , 幾週後 , 我們設立營地 。
and people are forced to come into the camps to get their safe drinking water .	人們被迫進入難民營 , 讓他們的安全飲用水 。
what happens when 20 , 000 people congregate in a camp ?	當兩萬人聚集在營地時會發生什麼事 ?
diseases spread . more resources are required .	疾病散播 , 需要更多資源 。
the problem just becomes selfperpetuating .	問題就變成了自我延續的 。
but by thinking differently , and shipping these , people can stay put .	但藉由不同的思維 , 運送這些資料 , 人們可以留下來 。
they can make their own sterile drinking water , and start to get on with rebuilding their homes and their lives .	他們可以製造自己的穩定飲用水 , 開始重建家園和生活 。
now , it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work .	這並不需要天然災害才能成功 。
using the old thinking , of national infrastructure and pipe work , is too expensive .	使用舊思維 , 國家基礎建設和管道的工作太昂貴了 。
when you run the numbers on a calculator , you run out of noughts .	當你在計算機上執行數字時 , 你就失敗了 。
so here is the " thinking different " bit .	這裡是 「 思考 」 的位置 。
instead of shipping water , and using manmade processes to do it , let's use mother nature . she's got a fantastic system .	與其運送水 , 使用人造的流程 , 讓我們使用大自然 。 她有一個很棒的系統 。
she picks the water up from there , desalinates it , for free , transports it over there , and dumps it onto the mountains , rivers , and streams .	她從那裡拿起水 , 免費送到那裡 , 把水丟到山上 , 河流和溪流上 。
and where do people live ? near water .	人們住在哪裡 ? 鄰近水域 。
all we've go to do is make it sterile . how do we do that ?	我們所要做的就是讓它穩定 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , we could use the lifesaver bottle .	嗯 , 我們可以用生物樣本 。
or we could use one of these .	或者 , 我們可以用其中一種 。
the same technology , in a jerry can .	同樣的技術 , 在jerry能做到的 。
this will process 25 , 000 liters of water ; that's good enough for a family of four , for three years .	這會處理二萬五千公升的水 ; 足夠四個家庭 , 三年之久 。
and how much does it cost ?	要花多少錢 ?
about half a cent a day to run .	一天大概只有半分錢才能經營 。
so , by thinking differently , and processing water at the point of use , mothers and children no longer have to walk four hours a day to collect their water .	所以 , 用不同的方式思考和處理水 , 母親和孩子不再需要每天走四小時才能收集他們的水 。
they can get it from a source nearby .	它們可以從附近的來源取得 。
so with just eight billion dollars , we can hit the millennium goal's target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water .	只要花了八十億美金 , 我們就能達到千禧年目標 , 來拯救人們的數量 , 不用取得安全的飲用水 。
to put that into context , the u . k . government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid .	以此為背景 , 英國政府每年花大約120億英鎊在外國援助 。
but why stop there ?	但為什麼要停下來 ?
with 20 billion dollars , everyone can have access to safe drinking water .	有200億美元 , 每個人都能取得安全飲用水 。
so the threeandahalf billion people that suffer every year as a result , and the two million kids that die every year , will live .	所以每年有三千五億人遭受痛苦 , 每年有兩百萬個孩子死去 , 會活下來 。
paddy ashdown claims that we are living in a moment in history where power is changing in ways it never has before . in a spellbinding talk at tedxbrussels he outlines the three major global shifts that he sees coming .	padadyshown聲稱我們生活在歷史上 , 權力在以前從未有過的方式改變 。 在tedxussel的演講中他提到他所見到的三個重大的全球轉變
foreign policy , global issues , politics , world cultures	外交政策、全球議題、政治、世界文化、文化 。
paddy ashdown: the global power shift	padyshown:全球權力的轉變 。
there's a poem written by a very famous english poet at the end of the 19th century .	在十九世紀末 , 有一首詩寫了一首著名的英文詩 。
it was said to echo in churchill's brain in the 1930s .	在1930年代 , 它被用來回應教堂的大腦 。
and the poem goes: " on the idle hill of summer , lazy with the flow of streams , hark i hear a distant drummer , drumming like a sound in dreams , far and near and low and louder on the roads of earth go by , dear to friend and food to powder , soldiers marching , soon to die . "	這首詩是: 「 在夏天的大山上 , 充滿著溪流的流動 , 我聽到一個遙遠的鼓聲 , 鼓聲就像是夢中的聲音 , 很近、很低、很大聲 , 在地球的路上 , 親愛的朋友 , 吃粉、食物、士兵遊行 , 很快就死亡 。 」
those who are interested in poetry , the poem is " a shropshire lad " written by a . e . housman .	那些對詩很感興趣的人 , 這首詩是 " 夏洛夫拉 " 由a.e.housman所寫的 。
but what housman understood , and you hear it in the symphonies of nielsen too , was that the long , hot , silvan summers of stability of the 19th century were coming to a close , and that we were about to move into one of those terrifying periods of history when power changes .	但霍斯曼也知道 , 在尼爾森的交響樂中 , 你也聽到這句話 , 那就是 , 十九世紀的穩定性夏天的穩定性 , 我們即將進入一個可怕的時代 , 當權力改變 。
and these are always periods , ladies and gentlemen , accompanied by turbulence , and all too often by blood .	女士們 , 女士們先生們 , 伴隨著亂流 , 經常是血液 。
and my message for you is that i believe we are condemned , if you like , to live at just one of those moments in history when the gimbals upon which the established order of power is beginning to change and the new look of the world , the new powers that exist in the world , are beginning to take form .	而我的訊息是 , 我相信我們是有信心的 , 如果你喜歡 , 在歷史上 , 最高階級的權力開始改變世界的新角度 , 世界上存在的新勢力開始開始形成 。
and these are and we see it very clearly today nearly always highly turbulent times , highly difficult times , and all too often very bloody times .	今天我們看到的很明顯 , 幾乎永遠都很亂 , 很困難的時刻 , 很多時候都太過血 。
by the way , it happens about once every century .	順便一提 , 每一世紀都發生一次 。
you might argue that the last time it happened and that's what housman felt coming and what churchill felt too was that when power passed from the old nations , the old powers of europe , across the atlantic to the new emerging power of the united states of america the beginning of the american century .	你可能會爭辯說 , 上次發生了這場演說 , 霍斯曼感來了 , 以及教會的感受 , 就是當權力從古老的國家通過 , 歐洲的舊勢力 , 橫跨大西洋到美國新興的新興力量 , 美國一世紀開始的新興力量 。
and of course , into the vacuum where the tooold european powers used to be were played the two bloody catastrophes of the last century the one in the first part and the one in the second part: the two great world wars .	當然 , 在真空中歐洲的權力 , 以前的兩場血腥的災難 , 發生在上個世紀的兩場災難 , 第二部分:二場大戰 。
mao zedong used to refer to them as the european civil wars , and it's probably a more accurate way of describing them .	maozedong用來當歐洲內戰時 , 它可能是更精確的描述方式 。
well , ladies and gentlemen , we live at one of those times .	各位先生女士 , 我們生活在其中之一 。
but for us , i want to talk about three factors today .	但對我們來說 , 我今天要談三個因子 。
and the first of these , the first two of these , is about a shift in power .	首先 , 這兩者是權力的轉變 。
and the second is about some new dimension which i want to refer to , which has never quite happened in the way it's happening now .	第二個是關於一些新的維度 , 我想要提出一個新的維度 , 目前從來沒有發生過 。
but let's talk about the shifts of power that are occurring to the world .	但讓我們來談談在世界發生權力的轉變 。
and what is happening today is , in one sense , frightening because it's never happened before .	今天發生的狀況是 , 很害怕 , 因為從來沒有發生過 。
we have seen lateral shifts of power the power of greece passed to rome and the power shifts that occurred during the european civilizations but we are seeing something slightly different .	我們已經看到了革命的力量 , 希臘的力量過去了羅馬的力量 , 以及在歐洲文明期間發生的權力轉移 , 但我們看到一些稍微不同的東西 。
for power is not just moving laterally from nation to nation .	權力不僅僅是以後從國家到國家的移動 。
it's also moving vertically .	它也在垂直移動 。
what's happening today is that the power that was encased , held to accountability , held to the rule of law , within the institution of the nation state has now migrated in very large measure onto the global stage .	現今正在發生的力量是 , 負責責任的權力 , 在國家國家的制度中 , 已經在全球階段大規模的測量方式上移民 。
the globalization of power we talk about the globalization of markets , but actually it's the globalization of real power .	全球化的權力 , 我們談的是市場化 , 但實際上是全球化的權力 。
and where , at the nation state level that power is held to accountability subject to the rule of law , on the international stage it is not .	在國際層面上 , 權力被要求為法律規則 , 國際舞台主題 , 不是 。
the international stage and the global stage where power now resides: the power of the internet , the power of the satellite broadcasters , the power of the money changers this vast moneygoround that circulates now 32 times the amount of money necessary for the trade it's supposed to be there to finance the money changers , if you like , the financial speculators that have brought us all to our knees quite recently , the power of the multinational corporations now developing budgets often bigger than mediumsized countries .	國際舞台和全球舞台現在的權力是網際網路的力量 , 衛星廣播的權力 , 金錢改變者的權力 , 這種巨大的金錢場所現在是32倍交易所必要的金錢是金融變革者 , 如果你喜歡 , 金融的推論者 , 把我們所有人帶到我們的膝蓋裡 , 近期 , 跨國企業的權力 , 經常發展出比中國家更大的電力 。
these live in a global space which is largely unregulated , not subject to the rule of law , and in which people may act free of constraint .	這些生活在一個很大的全球空間 , 不受法律規則的主宰 , 而人們可能是免費的限制 。
now that suits the powerful up to a moment .	這套裝置有力到一個時刻 。
it's always suitable for those who have the most power to operate in spaces without constraint , but the lesson of history is that , sooner or later , unregulated space space not subject to the rule of law becomes populated , not just by the things you wanted international trade , the internet , etc . but also by the things you don't want international criminality , international terrorism .	總是適合那些在沒有限制的空間中最有權力的人 , 但歷史的教訓是 , 很快的 , 沒有規範的空間 , 不單單單單單單是你想要國際貿易、網路等等 。 也是你不想要國際犯罪、國際恐怖主義 。
the revelation of 9/11 is that even if you are the most powerful nation on earth , nevertheless , those who inhabit that space can attack you even in your most iconic of cities one bright september morning .	911事件的啟示是 , 即使你是地球上最強大的國家 , 儘管如此 , 那些居住空間的人 , 甚至可以攻擊你大部分的城市 , 一個明亮的九月早晨 。
it's said that something like 60 percent of the four million dollars that was taken to fund 9/11 actually passed through the institutions of the twin towers which 9/11 destroyed .	據說 , 400萬美金大約有60%的資金被帶到911恐怖組織中 , 通過了雙胞胎塔的機構 , 911事件摧毀了 。
you see , our enemies also use this space the space of mass travel , the internet , satellite broadcasters to be able to get around their poison , which is about destroying our systems and our ways .	你看 , 我們的敵人也使用這個空間 , 質量旅行、網路、衛星廣播 , 以取得它們的毒害 , 重點在於摧毀我們的系統和我們的方式 。
sooner or later , sooner or later , the rule of history is that where power goes governance must follow .	不久後 , 歷史的規則是 , 權力的管理必須追隨 。
and if it is therefore the case , as i believe it is , that one of the phenomenon of our time is the globalization of power , then it follows that one of the challenges of our time is to bring governance to the global space .	因此 , 假如我相信 , 我們這個時代的一個現象是全球化的權力 , 那麼 , 我們這個時代的挑戰之一就是把治理帶到全球空間 。
and i believe that the decades ahead of us now will be to a greater or lesser extent turbulent the more or less we are able to achieve that aim: to bring governance to the global space .	我相信 , 未來的數十年將會是更大、更大、更少的亂流 , 我們能夠達成目標:把治理帶到全球空間 。
now notice , i'm not talking about government .	請注意 , 我不是在說政府 。
i'm not talking about setting up some global democratic institution .	我不是在說建立一些全球民主制度 。
my own view , by the way , ladies and gentlemen , is that this is unlikely to be done by spawning more u . n . institutions .	順便一提 , 我自己的觀點 , 女士們先生們 , 這種觀點是不太可能的 , 藉由擴展更多聯合國機構 。
if we didn't have the u . n . , we'd have to invent it .	如果我們沒有聯合國 , 我們就得發明它 。
the world needs an international forum .	世界需要國際論壇 。
it needs a means by which you can legitimize international action .	它需要一種方式 , 讓你可以合法化國際行動 。
but when it comes to governance of the global space , my guess is this won't happen through the creation of more u . n . institutions .	但當談到全球空間的治理時 , 我猜這不會發生 , 透過創造更多聯合國的機構 。
it will actually happen by the powerful coming together and making treatybased systems , treatybased agreements , to govern that global space .	它會發生在強大的團結在一起 , 建立合約的系統、合約的協議、治理全球空間的協議 。
and if you look , you can see them happening , already beginning to emerge .	如果你看 , 你可以看到他們正在發生 , 已經開始出現了 。
the world trade organization: treatybased organization , entirely treatybased , and yet , powerful enough to hold even the most powerful , the united states , to account if necessary .	世界貿易組織:以合約為基礎的組織 , 完全是合法的組織 , 然而 , 強大的力量 , 足以支撐最強大的美國 , 如果必要的話 。
kyoto: the beginnings of struggling to create a treatybased organization .	kyoto:努力奮鬥的開始 , 來建立一個合約的組織 。
the g20: we know now that we have to put together an institution which is capable of bringing governance to that financial space for financial speculation .	g20:我們現在知道 , 我們得要建立一個機構 , 能夠將治理帶入金融空間 , 來推測財務規範 。
and that's what the g20 is , a treatybased institution .	而g20就是以合約為基礎的機構 。
now there's a problem there , and we'll come back to it in a minute , which is that if you bring the most powerful together to make the rules in treatybased institutions , to fill that governance space , then what happens to the weak who are left out ?	現在有一個問題 , 我們等一下會再回到這個問題 , 那就是 , 如果你把最強大的統治規則 , 以合約為基礎的制度來填補那個治理空間 , 會發生什麼事 ?
and that's a big problem , and we'll return to it in just a second .	這是個很大的問題 , 只要一秒鐘就回來了 。
so there's my first message , that if you are to pass through these turbulent times more or less turbulently , then our success in doing that will in large measure depend on our capacity to bring sensible governance to the global space .	所以 , 我的第一個訊息是 , 如果你能通過這些亂流的次數 , 或更少的亂流 , 那麼我們的成功會取決於我們的能力 , 來將全球空間的負面治理帶給我們 。
and watch that beginning to happen .	看著這一切開始發生 。
my second point is , and i know i don't have to talk to an audience like this about such a thing , but power is not just shifting vertically , it's also shifting horizontally .	我的第二點是 , 我知道 , 我不需要和像這樣的觀眾談話 , 而是權力不只在垂直轉移 , 它也在地平地轉移 。
you might argue that the story , the history of civilizations , has been civilizations gathered around seas with the first ones around the mediterranean , the more recent ones in the ascendents of western power around the atlantic .	你可能會爭論這個故事 , 文明的歷史 , 已經在海中聚集在一起 , 帶著第一批在地中海 , 最近在大西洋的西方力量 。
well it seems to me that we're now seeing a fundamental shift of power , broadly speaking , away from nations gathered around the atlantic [seaboard] to the nations gathered around the pacific rim .	對我來說 , 我們現在看到了權力的基本轉變 , 廣泛地說話 , 從大西洋到大西洋的各國都聚集在太平洋中 。
now that begins with economic power , but that's the way it always begins .	從經濟力量開始 , 但這一直是這樣開始的 。
you already begin to see the development of foreign policies , the augmentation of military budgets occurring in the other growing powers in the world .	你已經開始看到外交政策的發展 , 軍事預算的擴增 , 在世界上其他成長的權力 。
i think actually this is not so much a shift from the west to the east ; something different is happening .	其實這不是西方的轉變 , 和東方的轉變 ; 不同的事情正在發生 。
my guess is , for what it's worth , is that the united states will remain the most powerful nation on earth for the next 10 years , 15 , but the context in which she holds her power has now radically altered ; it has radically changed .	我的猜測是 , 值得的 , 美國將會在未來十年內維持著世界上最強大的國家 , 十五年、十五歲 , 但她認為她的權力現在已經徹底改變了 ; 它已經徹底改變了 。
we are coming out of 50 years , most unusual years , of history in which we have had a totally monopolar world , in which every compass needle for or against has to be referenced by its position to washington a world bestrode by a single colossus .	我們從50年以來 , 最不尋常的歷史中 , 我們有一個完全獨立的世界 , 在這個世界中 , 每一位羅盤針 , 都必須被它的位置給華盛頓 , 一個世界最好的英雄 。
but that's not a usual case in history .	但這不是歷史上常見的案例 。
in fact , what's now emerging is the much more normal case of history .	事實上 , 現在正在發生的是更正常的歷史案例 。
you're beginning to see the emergence of a multipolar world .	你正開始看到一個多向分化世界的出現 。
up until now , the united states has been the dominant feature of our world .	到目前為止 , 美國一直是世界的主要特徵 。
they will remain the most powerful nation , but they will be the most powerful nation in an increasingly multipolar world .	他們將維持著最強大的國家 , 但他們將成為一個越來越多世界中最強大的國家 。
and you begin to see the alternative centers of power building up in china , of course , though my own guess is that china's ascent to greatness is not smooth .	而你開始看到中國的權力中心 , 當然 , 我自己的猜測是中國對偉大的中心 , 不是光滑 。
it's going to be quite grumpy as china begins to democratize her society after liberalizing her economy .	中國會開始民主化她的社會 , 在自由化經濟之後 , 自由化了她的社會 。
but that's a subject of a different discussion .	但這是個不同的討論主題 。
you see india , you see brazil .	你看到印度 , 你看到巴西 。
you see increasingly that the world now looks actually , for us europeans , much more like europe in the 19th century .	你可以看到現在世界看起來 , 對歐洲人來說 , 實際上 , 對歐洲人來說 , 比較像19世紀的歐洲 。
europe in the 19th century: a great british foreign secretary , lord canning , used to describe it as the " european concert of powers . "	在十九世紀 , 一個偉大的英國外交部長 , 林肯 , 以前用來描述它是 「 歐洲權力協會 」 。
there was a balance , a fivesided balance .	有平衡 , 五大的平衡 。
britain always played to the balance .	英國總是在平衡上演 。
if paris got together with berlin , britain got together with vienna and rome to provide a counterbalance .	如果巴黎和柏林合作 , 英國和維也納和羅馬一起合作 , 來提供平衡 。
now notice , in a period which is dominated by a monopolar world , you have fixed alliances nato , the warsaw pact .	請注意 , 在一個單一世界主導的時期 , 你已經修復了雙方的盟友 , 戰役的先鋒 。
a fixed polarity of power means fixed alliances .	一個固定的權力的極端代表固定的盟友 。
but a multiple polarity of power means shifting and changing alliances .	但權力的多極限意味著轉變和改變盟友 。
and that's the world we're coming into , in which we will increasingly see that our alliances are not fixed .	這是我們進入的世界 , 我們會越來越常見到我們的盟友並不固定 。
canning , the great british foreign secretary once said , " britain has a common interest , but no common allies . "	坎昆 , 偉大的英國國外秘書長曾說: 「 英國有共同的利益 , 但沒有共同盟友 。 」
and we will see increasingly that even we in the west will reach out , have to reach out , beyond the cozy circle of the atlantic powers to make alliances with others if we want to get things done in the world .	我們會發現 , 即使在西方也能接觸到 , 必須要伸出援手 , 超越大西洋力量的結盟 , 才能和他人聯盟 , 如果我們想要在世界上做事 。
note , that when we went into libya , it was not good enough for the west to do it alone ; we had to bring others in .	請注意 , 當我們走進利比亞時 , 西方不夠好 , 我們得把其他人帶進去 。
we had to bring , in this case , the arab league in .	我們得把阿拉伯聯盟帶進來 。
my guess is iraq and afghanistan are the last times when the west has tried to do it themselves , and we haven't succeeded .	我的猜測是伊拉克和阿富汗 , 西方國家試圖自己做到 , 我們還沒成功 。
my guess is that we're reaching the beginning of the end of 400 years i say 400 years because it's the end of the ottoman empire of the hegemony of western power , western institutions and western values .	我的猜測是400年後的開始 , 我說了400年 , 因為那是西方力量的奧圖曼帝國的終結 , 西方的機構和西方的價值觀 。
you know , up until now , if the west got its act together , it could propose and dispose in every corner of the world .	你知道嗎 , 直到現在 , 如果西方國家團結起來 , 它可以在世界上的每個角落提出和消滅 。
but that's no longer true .	但這已經不是真的了 。
take the last financial crisis after the second world war .	以第二次世界大戰後最後一次金融危機為例 。
the west got together the bretton woods institution , world bank , international monetary fund the problem solved .	西方世界銀行 , 國際貨幣基金解決了問題 。
now we have to call in others .	現在我們必須呼籲他人 。
now we have to create the g20 .	現在我們必須創造g20 。
now we have to reach beyond the cozy circle of our western friends .	現在我們必須超越西方朋友的瘋狂圈 。
let me make a prediction for you , which is probably even more startling .	讓我為你們做一個預測 , 可能更令人驚訝 。
i suspect we are now reaching the end of 400 years when western power was enough .	我猜我們現在已經到了400年的終點 , 西方的權力足夠 。
people say to me , " the chinese , of course , they'll never get themselves involved in peacemaking , multilateral peacemaking around the world . "	人們對我說: 「 中國 , 當然 , 他們永遠不會涉及到和平、多邊和平的交流 。 」
oh yes ? why not ?	是的 ? 為何不呢 ?
how many chinese troops are serving under the blue beret , serving under the blue flag , serving under the u . n . command in the world today ?	有多少中國軍隊在藍色的賭場下 , 在藍色旗幟下 , 在聯合國的指令下 , 服務全世界的國家 ?
how many americans ? 11 .	有多少美國人 ? 十一歲 。
what is the largest naval contingent tackling the issue of somali pirates ?	何謂索馬利海盜最大的海軍聯盟 ?
the chinese naval contingent .	中國的海軍聯盟 。
of course they are , they are a mercantilist nation .	當然 , 他們是農民國家 。
they want to keep the sea lanes open .	他們想讓海道打開 。
increasingly , we are going to have to do business with people with whom we do not share values , but with whom , for the moment , we share common interests .	漸漸地 , 我們要和我們沒有共享價值的人做生意 , 但和誰一起 , 我們共享共同的利益 。
it's a whole new different way of looking at the world that is now emerging .	這是一種全新的看待世界的方式 , 一種現在正在興起的世界 。
and here's the third factor , which is totally different .	第三個因素完全不同 。
today in our modern world , because of the internet , because of the kinds of things people have been talking about here , everything is connected to everything .	今天 , 在我們現代的世界裡 , 由於網際網路 , 因為人們在談論的各種事物 , 一切都與所有事物連結在一起 。
we are now interdependent .	我們現在是互相依賴的 。
we are now interlocked , as nations , as individuals , in a way which has never been the case before , never been the case before .	我們現在被關閉了 , 作為一個國家 , 一個從未發生過的案例 , 從未發生過 。
the interrelationship of nations , well it's always existed .	國家的相互關聯 , 嗯 , 總是存在著 。
diplomacy is about managing the interrelationship of nations .	外交的重點是要管理國家的相互關係 。
but now we are intimately locked together .	但現在 , 我們密切關連在一起了 。
you get swine flu in mexico , it's a problem for charles de gaulle airport 24 hours later .	你在墨西哥得到了瑞士流感 , 那是24小時後 , 查爾斯•德蓋爾機場的問題 。
lehman brothers goes down , the whole lot collapses .	雷曼兄弟掉下來 , 很多崩盤 。
there are fires in the steppes of russia , food riots in africa .	在俄羅斯、非洲的食物暴動中有火 。
we are all now deeply , deeply , deeply interconnected .	我們現在都非常、非常、非常緊密地相互連結 。
and what that means is the idea of a nation state acting alone , not connected with others , not working with others , is no longer a viable proposition .	這意味著 , 一個國家單獨行動的概念 , 而不是與他人連結 , 而不是與他人合作 , 不再是一個可行的建議 。
because the actions of a nation state are neither confined to itself , nor is it sufficient for the nation state itself to control its own territory , because the effects outside the nation state are now beginning to affect what happens inside them .	因為一個國家的行動 , 不只限於自己 , 也不足以控制國家自身的領土 , 因為國家的影響已經開始影響到國家內部的狀況 。
i was a young soldier in the last of the small empire wars of britain .	我是英國最後一場小型帝國戰爭的士兵 。
at that time , the defense of my country was about one thing and one thing only: how strong was our army , how strong was our air force , how strong was our navy and how strong were our allies .	那時 , 我國家的防禦是一件事 , 只有一件事:我們的軍隊有多強壯 , 我們的空軍有多強壯 , 我們的海軍有多強壯 , 我們的盟友有多強壯 。
that was when the enemy was outside the walls .	那時候 , 敵人就在牆外 。
now the enemy is inside the walls .	敵人就在牆上 。
now if i want to talk about the defense of my country , i have to speak to the minister of health because pandemic disease is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of agriculture because food security is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of industry because the fragility of our hitech infrastructure is now a point of attack for our enemies as we see from cyber warfare i have to speak to the minister of home affairs because who has entered my country , who lives in that terraced house in that inner city has a direct effect on what happens in my country as we in london saw in the 7/7 bombings .	現在 , 如果我想要談我國家的防禦 , 我得要和那些健康的部長談 , 因為流行疾病對我的安全有威脅 , 我得要和農業部談談 , 因為食物安全對我的安全是威脅 , 我得要和工業部談談 , 因為我們僱用基礎設施的脆弱 , 正是我們從網路戰爭中看到的敵人 , 我必須對國內的敵人說話 , 我得要和國內的家裡的家鄉 , 談談談 , 因為在我國內 , 第七個家庭中 , 七個案例 。
it's no longer the case that the security of a country is simply a matter for its soldiers and its ministry of defense .	不再是國家安全的案例 , 只是對其士兵和國防部而言是很重要的 。
it's its capacity to lock together its institutions .	是它的能力 , 把它的機構鎖在一起 。
and this tells you something very important .	這告訴我們一件非常重要的事 。
it tells you that , in fact , our governments , vertically constructed , constructed on the economic model of the industrial revolution vertical hierarchy , specialization of tasks , command structures have got the wrong structures completely .	它告訴你 , 事實上 , 我們的政府 , 垂直建構 , 建構在工業革命的經濟模式上 , 垂直的階級制度 , 專門化任務 , 指揮結構完全是錯誤的結構 。
you in business know that the paradigm structure of our time , ladies and gentlemen , is the network .	你在商業界知道我們時代的範式結構 , 各位先生女士 , 是網路 。
it's your capacity to network that matters , both within your governments and externally .	是你對網絡有影響的能力 , 兩者都在你的政府和外部 。
so here is ashdown's third law .	這裡是阿什德欠第三條法則 。
by the way , don't ask me about ashdown's first law and second law because i haven't invented those yet ; it always sounds better if there's a third law , doesn't it ?	順便一提 , 不要問我第一個法律和第二定律 , 因為我還沒有發明這些法則 ; 如果有第三個法則 , 聽起來會比較好嗎 ?
ashdown's third law is that in the modern age , where everything is connected to everything , the most important thing about what you can do is what you can do with others .	ashdown第三個法則是 , 在現代 , 每件事都連接到任何東西 , 最重要的是你能做什麼 , 就是你能和別人做些什麼 。
the most important bit about your structure whether you're a government , whether you're an army regiment , whether you're a business is your docking points , your interconnectors , your capacity to network with others .	你的結構最重要的一點是 , 無論你是政府 , 無論你是軍隊註冊 , 不論你是生意 , 你的交錯點 , 你的連結者 , 你的能力 , 你和其他人的連結 。
you understand that in industry ; governments don't .	你明白在工業界 , 政府沒有 。
but now one final thing .	但現在 , 最後一件事 。
if it is the case , ladies and gentlemen and it is that we are now locked together in a way that has never been quite the same before , then it's also the case that we share a destiny with each other .	如果是這樣的例子 , 女士們先生們 , 我們現在被鎖在一個以前從未相同的方式上 , 那也是我們彼此的命運 。
suddenly and for the very first time , collective defense , the thing that has dominated us as the concept of securing our nations , is no longer enough .	突然間 , 一開始 , 集體防禦 , 把我們當作是保障國家的概念 , 已經不再夠了 。
it used to be the case that if my tribe was more powerful than their tribe , i was safe ; if my country was more powerful than their country , i was safe ; my alliance , like nato , was more powerful than their alliance , i was safe .	以前 , 如果我的部落比他們的部落更強大 , 我是安全的 ; 如果我的國家比他們的國家更強大 , 我是安全的 ; 猶太人 , 像娜托 , 比他們的盟友更強大 , 我是安全的 。
it is no longer the case .	不再是事實 。
the advent of the interconnectedness and of the weapons of mass destruction means that , increasingly , i share a destiny with my enemy .	相互連結的進展和大規模毀滅的武器意味著越來越多 , 我和我的敵人分享了命運 。
when i was a diplomat negotiating the disarmament treaties with the soviet union in geneva in the 1970s , we succeeded because we understood we shared a destiny with them .	我當時是一位外交官協商在1970年代在日內瓦的蘇聯協商時 , 我們成功了 , 因為我們知道我們和他們分享了命運 。
collective security is not enough .	集體安全還不夠 。
peace has come to northern ireland because both sides realized that the zerosum game couldn't work .	和平來到北愛爾蘭 , 因為兩方都知道 , 零和的遊戲是行不通的 。
they shared a destiny with their enemies .	他們和敵人分享了命運 。
one of the great barriers to peace in the middle east is that both sides , both israel and , i think , the palestinians , do not understand that they share a collective destiny .	中東和平的最大障礙之一 , 就是以色列和伊斯蘭人 , 我認為 , 巴勒斯坦人並不了解他們有共同的命運 。
and so suddenly , ladies and gentlemen , what has been the proposition of visionaries and poets down the ages becomes something we have to take seriously as a matter of public policy .	所以 , 女士們先生們 , 一直以來 , 遠見和詩人的提議變成了我們必須認真看待的公共政策 。
i started with a poem , i'll end with one .	我從一首詩開始 , 我會用一首詩來結束 。
the great poem of john donne's .	約翰•唐恩的偉大詩 。
" send not for whom the bell tolls . "	「 不要寄錢給誰 。 」
the poem is called " no man is an island . "	這首詩叫做 「 沒有人是島嶼 」 。
and it goes: " every man's death affected me , for i am involved in mankind , send not to ask for whom the bell tolls , it tolls for thee . "	內容是: 「 每個人的死亡都影響著我 , 因為我在人身上 , 不去尋求任何人的肚子 , 它會為我冒險 。 」
for john donne , a recommendation of morality .	對約翰•唐恩來說 , 是道德的建議 。
for us , i think , part of the equation for our survival .	對我們來說 , 我認為 , 我們生存的一部分 。
to find the path to long life and health , dan buettner and team study the world's " blue zones , " communities whose elders live with vim and vigor to recordsetting age . at tedxtc , he shares the 9 common diet and lifestyle habits that keep them spry past age 100 .	為了尋找長壽和健康的路徑 , 丹•布特納和團隊研究這個世界的 「 藍色區塊 」 , 他們的長輩們和vimorgor一起生活 , 記錄tedxtc的時代 , 他分享了9個常見飲食和生活習慣 , 使他們能在一百歲之前長壽 。
biology , culture , exploration , food , health , life , science	生物、文化、探索、探索、食物、健康、生命、科學、科學、科學 。
dan buettner: how to live to be 100+	丹•布特納:如何活到一百個+ 。
something called the danish twin study established that only about 10 percent of how long the average person lives , within certain biological limits , is dictated by our genes .	一個叫danishwin的研究指出 , 平均壽命的百分之十 , 在某些生物限制下 , 被我們的基因所分離 。
the other 90 percent is dictated by our lifestyle .	其它90%是由我們的生活方式來決定 。
so the premise of blue zones: if we can find the optimal lifestyle of longevity we can come up with a de facto formula for longevity .	所以藍色區域的前提是:如果我們能找到長壽的最佳生活方式 , 我們就能找到一個事實公式 , 長壽的公式 。
but if you ask the average american what the optimal formula of longevity is , they probably couldn't tell you .	但如果你問一般美國人 , 長壽最佳的公式 , 他們可能會不會告訴你 。
they've probably heard of the south beach diet , or the atkins diet .	他們可能聽說過南海灘飲食 , 或墨水飲食 。
you have the usda food pyramid .	你有美國食品藥物管理局 。
there is what oprah tells us .	歐普拉告訴我們什麼 。
there is what doctor oz tells us .	奧茲醫生告訴我們什麼 。
the fact of the matter is there is a lot of confusion around what really helps us live longer better .	事實是 , 有很多困惑 , 真正能幫助我們活得更久 。
should you be running marathons or doing yoga ?	你應該要跑馬拉松或做瑜伽嗎 ?
should you eat organic meats or should you be eating tofu ?	你應該吃有機肉還是吃豆子嗎 ?
when it comes to supplements , should you be taking them ?	談到補給品時 , 你應該要服用他們嗎 ?
how about these hormones or resveratrol ?	荷爾蒙或反轉荷爾蒙呢 ?
and does purpose play into it ?	目的是什麼 ?
spirituality ? and how about how we socialize ?	靈性 ? 我們如何社交呢 ?
well , our approach to finding longevity was to team up with national geographic , and the national institute on aging , to find the four demographically confirmed areas that are geographically defined .	我們尋找長壽的方法是和國家地理學團隊合作 , 國家老化研究所 , 找出四個人口統一的區域 , 確認地理上的定義 。
and then bring a team of experts in there to methodically go through exactly what these people do , to distill down the crosscultural distillation .	接著 , 把一組專家帶到那裡 , 以正常的方式來處理這些人的做法 , 把跨文化分散 。
and at the end of this i'm going to tell you what that distillation is .	最後我要告訴各位 , 這種分析是什麼 。
but first i'd like to debunk some common myths when it comes to longevity .	但 , 首先 , 我想在長壽時破壞一些常見的迷思 。
and the first myth is if you try really hard you can live to be 100 .	第一個迷思是 , 如果你真的很難活到一百歲 。
the problem is , only about one out of 5 , 000 people in america live to be 100 .	問題是 , 美國只有五千人當中只有一人活到一百歲 。
your chances are very low .	你的機會非常低 。
even though it's the fastest growing demographic in america , it's hard to reach 100 .	雖然它是美國成長最快的人口統計 , 但很難達到100 。
the problem is that we're not programmed for longevity .	問題是 , 我們不是為了長壽而設計出來的 。
we are programmed for something called procreative success .	我們為所謂的 「 積極的成功 」 設計出來 。
i love that word .	我喜歡這個詞 。
it reminds me of my college days .	它讓我想起我大學的日子 。
biologists term procreative success to mean the age where you have children and then another generation , the age when your children have children .	生物學家稱之為 「 繁衍的成功 」 , 意思是 「 年齡 」 和 「 孩子 」 的年齡 。
after that the effect of evolution completely dissipates .	在那之後 , 演化的效應完全消失了 。
if you're a mammal , if you're a rat or an elephant , or a human , in between , it's the same story .	如果你是哺乳類 , 如果你是一隻老鼠或一隻大象 , 在兩者之間 , 都是同一個故事 。
so to make it to age 100 , you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle , you also have to have won the genetic lottery .	所以 , 要讓它活到一百歲 , 你不需要有很棒的生活方式 , 你也得贏得基因彩票 。
the second myth is , there are treatments that can help slow , reverse , or even stop aging .	第二個迷思是 , 有治療方法可以協助緩慢、逆轉 , 甚至阻止衰老 。
when you think of it , there is 99 things that can age us .	當你想一想 , 有99件事情可以讓我們老化 。
deprive your brain of oxygen for just a few minutes , those brain cells die , they never come back .	只要幾分鐘 , 腦細胞就死了 , 它們就永遠不會回來 。
play tennis too hard , on your knees , ruin your cartilage , the cartilage never comes back .	玩網球太硬 , 在你的膝蓋上 , 毀掉你的軟骨 , 軟骨永遠不會回來 。
our arteries can clog . our brains can gunk up with plaque , and we can get alzheimer's .	我們的動脈可以堵塞 , 我們的大腦可以用斑塊槍擊 , 我們可以得到阿茲海默症 。
there is just too many things to go wrong .	有太多事情要出錯 。
our bodies have 35 trillion cells , trillion with a " t . " we're talking national debt numbers here .	我們的身體有35兆個細胞 , 用一個 「 t 」 的 「 t 」 , 我們在這裡談的是國家債務 。
those cells turn themselves over once every eight years .	這些細胞每八年就轉一次 。
and every time they turn themselves over there is some damage . and that damage builds up .	每當他們轉身時 , 就會產生一些傷害 , 造成損害 。
and it builds up exponentially .	以指數的方式來建造 。
it's a little bit like the days when we all had beatles albums or eagles albums and we'd make a copy of that on a cassette tape , and let our friends copy that cassette tape , and pretty soon , with successive generations that tape sounds like garbage .	有點像日子 , 當我們有披頭四或老鷹專輯時 , 我們會在膠帶上複製 , 讓我們的朋友複製膠帶 , 很快地 , 有了成功的世代 , 聽起來像是垃圾 。
well , the same things happen to our cells .	同樣的事情也發生在我們的細胞身上 。
that's why a 65yearold person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12yearold person .	這就是為什麼一個65歲的人老化速度比一個12歲的人快125倍
so , if there is nothing you can do to slow your aging or stop your aging , what am i doing here ?	所以 , 如果沒有什麼能讓你的老化或停止你的老化 , 我在這裡做什麼 ?
well , the fact of the matter is the best science tells us that the capacity of the human body , my body , your body , is about 90 years , a little bit more for women .	事實上 , 最好的科學告訴我們 , 人類身體的能力 , 我的身體 , 你的身體 , 大約是90年 , 女性的能力 。
but life expectancy in this country is only 78 .	但在這個國家的預期壽命只有78歲 。
so somewhere along the line , we're leaving about 12 good years on the table .	在這條線的某處 , 我們留下了大約12年的美好日子 。
these are years that we could get .	這些都是我們能得到的 。
and research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease , heart disease , cancer and diabetes .	研究顯示 , 大部分的疾病是慢性疾病、心臟病、癌症和糖尿病 。
we think the best way to get these missing years is to look at the cultures around the world that are actually experiencing them , areas where people are living to age 100 at rates up to 10 times greater than we are , areas where the life expectancy is an extra dozen years , the rate of middle age mortality is a fraction of what it is in this country .	我們認為最好的方法就是去看世界各地的文化 , 去體驗他們 , 在那裡 , 人們活到一百歲 , 比我們多十倍 , 預期壽命是十多年 , 中年死亡率是這個國家的一部分 。
we found our first blue zone about 125 miles off the coast of italy , on the island of sardinia .	我們發現我們在義大利海岸的第一塊藍色區域 , 位在薩丁尼亞島 。
and not the entire island , the island is about 1 . 4 million people , but only up in the highlands , an area called the nuoro province .	不是整個島嶼 , 島嶼大約有一百四十萬人 , 但只有在高地 , 一個叫做nuoro省的區域 。
and here we have this area where men live the longest , about 10 times more centenarians than we have here in america .	在這裡 , 男性生活最長的地區 , 大約是美國有10倍的青少年 。
and this is a place where people not only reach age 100 , they do so with extraordinary vigor .	這個地方 , 人們不僅到達一百歲 , 他們也和非凡的優勢相處 。
places where 102 year olds still ride their bike to work , chop wood , and can beat a guy 60 years younger than them .	那裡有102歲的老人仍然騎腳踏車去工作 , chopod , 可以打得比他們年輕60年 。
their history actually goes back to about the time of christ .	他們的歷史其實回到基督的時代 。
it's actually a bronze age culture that's been isolated .	它實際上是一個被隔離出來的青銅時代文化 。
because the land is so infertile , they largely are shepherds , which occasions regular , lowintensity physical activity .	因為土地是如此的不足 , 大部份是牧羊人 , 偶爾會是低強度的實體活動 。
their diet is mostly plantbased , accentuated with foods that they can carry into the fields .	牠們的飲食主要是植物 , 牠們的食物會被集中在田野中 。
they came up with an unleavened whole wheat bread called carta musica made out of durum wheat , a type of cheese made from grassfed animals so the cheese is high in omega3 fatty acids instead of omega6 fatty acids from cornfed animals , and a type of wine that has three times the level of polyphenols than any known wine in the world .	他們想出了一整隻獨特的麥田 , 叫卡塔•麥德 , 用草原製成的一種乳酪 , 乳酪是omega-3脂肪酸 , 而不是omega-6脂肪酸 , 而是來自玉米的動物 , 還有一種葡萄酒 , 有三倍的葡萄級 , 比世界上任何已知葡萄酒量都多三倍 。
but the real secret i think lies more in the way that they organize their society .	但我認為真正的秘密是他們組織社會的方式 。
and one of the most salient elements of the sardinian society is how they treat older people .	薩丁尼亞社會最吸引人的元素之一 , 就是他們對待老年人的方式 。
you ever notice here in america , social equity seems to peak at about age 24 ?	你有沒有注意到在美國 , 社會平等似乎在24歲時達到高峰 ?
just look at the advertisements .	看看廣告 。
here in sardinia , the older you get the more equity you have , the more wisdom you're celebrated for .	在薩丁尼亞 , 你得到越多的平等 , 你就越有智慧 。
you go into the bars in sardinia , instead of seeing the sports illustrated swimsuit calendar , you see the centenarian of the month calendar .	你去了薩丁尼亞的酒吧 , 而不是看運動會描述游泳日曆 , 你看到月曆的中亞人 。
this , as it turns out , is not only good for your aging parents to keep them close to the family it imparts about four to six years of extra life expectancy research shows it's also good for the children of those families , who have lower rates of mortality and lower rates of disease .	事實證明 , 這不只適合你的老年父母 , 讓他們和家人密切相關 , 大約四到六年的預期壽命研究顯示 , 對那些家庭的孩子來說 , 死亡率較低、較低的疾病率 。
that's called the grandmother effect .	叫做祖母效應 。
we found our second blue zone on the other side of the planet , about 800 miles south of tokyo , on the archipelago of okinawa .	我們在地球的另一端發現了第二個藍色區域 , 大約有800英哩南東東京 , 位於奧克蘭哥 。
okinawa is actually 161 small islands .	okinawa實際上是161個小島 。
and in the northern part of the main island , this is ground zero for world longevity .	在主要島嶼的北部 , 這是世界長壽的基礎 。
this is a place where the oldest living female population is found .	這是最古老的女性族群被發現的地方 。
it's a place where people have the longest disabilityfree life expectancy in the world .	這個地方 , 人們有世界上最長的殘疾預期壽命 。
they have what we want .	他們有我們想要的 。
they live a long time , and tend to die in their sleep , very quickly , and often , i can tell you , after sex .	牠們活很久 , 牠們的睡眠很快 , 通常 , 我可以告訴你 , 性行為之後 。
they live about seven good years longer than the average american .	他們的壽命比一般美國人多七年 。
five times as many centenarians as we have in america .	美國有五倍之多 。
one fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer , big killers here in america .	五分之一的殖民和乳癌 , 在美國這裡有大型殺手 。
and one sixth the rate of cardiovascular disease .	心血管疾病的機率是六分之一 。
and the fact that this culture has yielded these numbers suggests strongly they have something to teach us .	而這個文化的事實證明了這些數字他們有強烈的教導我們 。
what do they do ?	他們會怎麼做 ?
once again , a plantbased diet , full of vegetables with lots of color in them .	再一次 , 一個植物的飲食 , 裡面有許多顏色的蔬菜 。
and they eat about eight times as much tofu as americans do .	他們吃大約八倍多的豆腐 , 如美國人一樣 。
more significant than what they eat is how they eat it .	比他們吃的東西更重要的是他們如何吃它 。
they have all kinds of little strategies to keep from overeating , which , as you know , is a big problem here in america .	他們有各式各樣的策略來避免過度濫用 , 如你所知 , 在美國是個大問題 。
a few of the strategies we observed: they eat off of smaller plates , so they tend to eat fewer calories at every sitting .	我們觀察到的一些策略:它們吃掉較小的盤子 , 所以它們每一處都會吃少的卡路里 。
instead of serving family style , where you can sort of mindlessly eat as you're talking , they serve at the counter , put the food away , and then bring it to the table .	與其服務家庭風格 , 不如你在說話時 , 人們可以無心地吃東西 , 把食物放在櫃子上 , 然後把食物送到桌子上 。
they also have a 3 , 000yearold adage , which i think is the greatest sort of diet suggestion ever invented .	他們還有3000歲的老年人 , 我覺得這是史上最偉大的飲食建議 。
it was invented by confucius .	它是由混合物發明的 。
and that diet is known as the hara , hatchi , bu diet .	飲食被稱為騷擾、仇恨、飲食 。
it's simply a little saying these people say before their meal to remind them to stop eating when their stomach is [80] percent full .	這只是一個小小的說 , 在他們的餐點之前 , 提醒他們不要再吃掉他們 , 因為他們的胃是80% 。
it takes about a half hour for that full feeling to travel from your belly to your brain .	要花大約半小時才能從腹部傳到腦部 。
and by remembering to stop at 80 percent it helps keep you from doing that very thing .	藉由記住 , 阻止百分之八十的情況 , 讓你無法做到那樣的事情 。
but , like sardinia , okinawa has a few social constructs that we can associate with longevity .	但 , 如薩丁尼亞 , okinawa有幾個社會建構 , 我們能與長壽相關 。
we know that isolation kills .	我們知道隔離會致命 。
fifteen years ago , the average american had three good friends .	十五年前 , 美國人平均有三個好朋友 。
we're down to one and half right now .	我們現在只有1.5歲 。
if you were lucky enough to be born in okinawa , you were born into a system where you automatically have a half a dozen friends with whom you travel through life .	如果你很幸運 , 出生在okinawa , 你出生在一個系統中 , 你就有一半的朋友 , 和你經歷過人生 。
they call it a moai . and if you're in a moai you're expected to share the bounty if you encounter luck , and if things go bad , child gets sick , parent dies , you always have somebody who has your back .	他們稱它為moai 。 如果你在moai , 你預期如果你遇到運氣不好 , 如果事情不好 , 孩子會生病 , 父母會死 , 你總是有你的後遺 。
this particular moai , these five ladies have been together for 97 years .	這個特別的moai , 這五位女士花了九十七年的時間 。
their average age is 102 .	他們的平均年齡是102歲 。
typically in america we've divided our adult life up into two sections .	通常在美國 , 我們把我們的成年生活分為兩部分 。
there is our work life , where we're productive .	我們的工作是有生產力的 。
and then one day , boom , we retire .	然後有一天 , 我們退休了 。
and typically that has meant retiring to the easy chair , or going down to arizona to play golf .	一般來說 , 這意味著退縮到簡單的椅子上 , 或是到亞利桑那州去打高爾夫球 。
in the okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement .	在奧克丁語中 , 甚至沒有退休的詞語 。
instead there is one word that imbues your entire life , and that word is " ikigai . "	取而代之的是 , 一個詞 , 就是 「 ikigai 」 。
and , roughly translated , it means " the reason for which you wake up in the morning . "	大約翻譯的意思是 「 你早上醒來的理由 」 。
for this 102yearold karate master , his ikigai was carrying forth this martial art .	這位十二歲的凱特大師 , 他的ikigai正帶著這場遊行藝術 。
for this hundredyearold fisherman it was continuing to catch fish for his family three times a week .	在這一百歲的漁夫 , 每週捕到他的家人魚三次 。
and this is a question . the national institute on aging actually gave us a questionnaire to give these centenarians .	這是個問題 。 國家老化的研究所實際上給了我們一個問卷 , 給了這些中年人 。
and one of the questions , they were very culturally astute , the people who put the questionnaire .	其中一個問題是 , 他們在文化上是很明顯的 , 那些提出質疑的人 。
one of the questions was , " what is your ikigai ? "	其中一個問題是: 「 你的ikigai是什麼 ? 」
they instantly knew why they woke up in the morning .	他們馬上就知道為什麼他們早上醒來 。
for this 102 year old woman , her ikigai was simply her greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	在這十二歲的老女人中 , 她的曾曾曾曾曾曾祖父 。
two girls separated in age by 101 and a half years .	兩個女孩在101歲和半年之間分離 。
and i asked her what it felt like to hold a greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	我問她 , 拿著曾曾祖父的感覺是怎樣的感覺 。
and she put her head back and she said , " it feels like leaping into heaven . "	她把她的頭放回去 , 說: 「 感覺就像是進入天堂 。 」
i thought that was a wonderful thought .	我以為那是個很棒的思想 。
my editor at geographic wanted me to find america's blue zone .	我在地理雜誌的編輯希望我能找到美國的藍色區 。
and for a while we looked on the prairies of minnesota , where actually there is a very high proportion of centenarians .	有一陣子 , 我們在明尼蘇達的展覽上看 , 實際上 , 有非常高的比例是中尼亞人 。
but that's because all the young people left .	但那是因為所有的年輕人都離開了 。
so , we turned to the data again .	所以 , 我們再次轉向數據 。
and we found america's longestlived population among the seventhday adventists concentrated in and around loma linda , california .	我們發現美國最長壽的人口 , 在加州 , 七天的廣告家集中在加州 , 和加州的羅馬林達州 。
adventists are conservative methodists .	傳統主義者是保守主義者 。
they celebrate their sabbath from sunset on friday till sunset on saturday .	他們在星期五的星期六從日出慶祝他們的日子 。
a " 24hour sanctuary in time , " they call it .	一個 「 24小時的聖誕老人 」 , 他們稱之為 「 24小時 」 。
and they follow five little habits that conveys to them extraordinary longevity , comparatively speaking .	他們遵循五個小習慣 , 傳遞給他們非凡長壽 , 相較之下的說法 。
in america here , life expectancy for the average woman is 80 .	在美國 , 平均女性平均壽命是八十歲 。
but for an adventist woman , their life expectancy is 89 .	但對於一位傳統的女性來說 , 他們的壽命是89 。
and the difference is even more pronounced among men , who are expected to live about 11 years longer than their american counterparts .	不同之處在於 , 比起他們的美國人 , 他們預期壽命比他們的美國人壽命還要長十一歲 。
now , this is a study that followed about 70 , 000 people for 30 years .	這個研究追蹤了大約七萬人 , 三十年來 。
sterling study . and i think it supremely illustrates the premise of this blue zone project .	史特林研究 。 我認為它會很快地說明了這個藍色區域的前提 。
this is a heterogeneous community .	這是一個異常的社區 。
it's white , black , hispanic , asian .	是白人、黑人、西班牙裔、亞洲人 。
the only thing that they have in common are a set of very small lifestyle habits that they follow ritualistically for most of their lives .	他們唯一共通點 , 是一組非常小的生活習慣 , 以至於他們生活中大部分的習慣 。
they take their diet directly from the bible .	他們直接從聖經中直接吃掉他們的飲食 。
genesis: chapter one , verse [29] , where god talks about legumes and seeds , and on one more stanza about green plants , ostensibly missing is meat .	第一章 , 一章 , 一章 , 上帝談到 「 肢體和種子 」 , 另一種是關於綠色植物的斯坦尚 , 最好是缺少肉 。
they take this sanctuary in time very serious .	他們認真看待這個聖誕老人 。
for 24 hours every week , no matter how busy they are , how stressed out they are at work , where the kids need to be driven , they stop everything and they focus on their god , their social network , and then , hardwired right in the religion , are nature walks .	每週24小時 , 不管他們有多忙 , 他們在工作上有多壓力 , 孩子需要被驅動 , 他們會停止一切 , 他們會把焦點放在他們的上帝、他們的社交網路 , 接著 , 在宗教中 , 硬線是自然的走路 。
and the power of this is not that it's done occasionally , the power is it's done every week for a lifetime .	這項技術的力量並不是偶爾完成的 , 權力是每週都在完成的 。
none of it's hard . none of it costs money .	沒有錢 , 沒有錢 。
adventists also tend to hang out with other adventists .	傳統主義者也傾向和其他的冒險家結合 。
so , if you go to an adventist's party you don't see people swilling jim beam or rolling a joint .	所以 , 若你去參加一位傳統主義者的派對 , 你不會看到人們在流汗或滾動一個關節 。
instead they're talking about their next nature walk , exchanging recipes , and yes , they pray .	相反地 , 他們在談論他們的下一步 , 交換食譜 , 是的 , 他們祈禱 。
but they influence each other in profound and measurable ways .	但它們會以深刻且可測量的方式影響彼此 。
this is a culture that has yielded ellsworth whareham .	這是一種文化 , 這種文化已經產出了不少美麗的沃爾蒙 。
ellsworth whareham is 97 years old .	埃爾斯威爾•沃爾罕是97歲 。
he's a multimillionaire , yet when a contractor wanted 6 , 000 dollars to build a privacy fence , he said , " for that kind of money i'll do it myself . "	他是多百萬富翁 , 但當一個承包商想要建造一個隱私的柵欄時 , 他說: 「 為了我自己所付出的錢 。 」
so for the next three days he was out shoveling cement , and hauling poles around .	所以接下來的三天 , 他在外面的水泥 , 拖著兩極 。
and predictably , perhaps , on the fourth day he ended up in the operating room .	可以預測 , 也許 , 在他在手術室的第四天 , 他終於在手術室裡 。
but not as the guy on the table ; the guy doing openheart surgery .	但不是桌上的那個人 , 而是開心手術的那個人 。
at 97 he still does 20 openheart surgeries every month .	九十七歲時 , 他每個月都會進行二十次開心手術 。
ed rawlings , 103 years old now , an active cowboy , starts his morning with a swim .	愛德華•魯林斯 , 103歲 , 一個活躍的牛仔 , 早上開始游泳 。
and on weekends he likes to put on the boards , throw up rooster tails .	週末 , 他喜歡在董事會上 , 扔掉屋頂的尾巴 。
her grandson actually lives in the twin cities here .	她的孫子其實住在這兒 。
she starts her day with lifting weights .	她每天從升起的重量開始 。
she rides her bicycle .	她騎腳踏車 。
and then she gets in her rootbeer colored 1994 cadillac seville , and tears down the san bernardino freeway , where she still volunteers for seven different organizations .	然後她走進她的根部 , 穿著1994年的卡迪拉•塞維爾 , 穿著聖柏納多的高速公路 , 在那裡 , 她仍然自願參加七個不同的組織 。
i've been on 19 hardcore expeditions .	我曾參加過19個硬幣的探險 。
i'm probably the only person you'll ever meet who rode his bicycle across the sahara desert without sunscreen .	我可能是你唯一能見的人 , 穿越撒哈拉沙漠的腳踏車 , 穿越撒哈拉沙漠 。
but i'll tell you , there is no adventure more harrowing than riding shotgun with marge deton .	但我要告訴各位 , 沒有任何冒險 , 比騎馬•德頓的攝影機更有傷害 。
" a stranger is a friend i haven't met yet ! " she'd say to me .	「 我還沒見過一個陌生人 ! 」 她對我說:
so , what are the common denominators in these three cultures ?	所以 , 這三種文化中有什麼共同點 ?
what are the things that they all do ?	他們所有人都在做什麼 ?
and we managed to boil it down to nine .	我們成功地將它歸結為九個 。
in fact we've done two more blue zone expeditions since this and these common denominators hold true .	事實上 , 自此以來 , 我們已經做了兩個藍色的探險 , 這些共同的決策者持有真相 。
and the first one , and i'm about to utter a heresy here , none of them exercise , at least the way we think of exercise .	首先 , 我將要給你們一個玩具 , 沒有一個練習 , 至少我們對運動的看法 。
instead , they set up their lives so that they are constantly nudged into physical activity .	相反地 , 他們設立了自己的生命 , 這樣他們就不斷地被推動到實體活動中 。
these 100yearold okinawan women are getting up and down off the ground , they sit on the floor , 30 or 40 times a day .	這一百歲的俄亥俄州的婦女正在上地下 , 他們每天都坐在地板上 , 30或40次 。
sardinians live in vertical houses , up and down the stairs .	薩丁尼亞人住在垂直的房子 , 上下樓梯 。
every trip to the store , or to church or to a friend's house occasions a walk .	每次旅行到商店、教堂或朋友家 , 都偶爾會走路 。
they don't have any conveniences .	他們沒有任何方便 。
there is not a button to push to do yard work or house work .	沒有一個按鈕 , 去做院子工作或房子工作 。
if they want to mix up a cake , they're doing it by hand .	如果他們想把蛋混合起來 , 他們會用手做蛋糕 。
that burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does .	這種燃燒卡路里和跑步機一樣大 。
when they do do intentional physical activity , it's the things they enjoy . they tend to walk , the only proven way to stave off cognitive decline , and they all tend to have a garden .	當他們做實體活動時 , 這是他們享受的事物 。 他們傾向走路 , 唯一證明如何減緩認知衰退 , 他們都傾向有花園 。
they know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook .	他們知道如何以正確的方式建立他們的人生 , 讓他們有正確的看法 。
each of these cultures take time to downshift .	每一種文化都需要時間下降 。
the sardinians pray . the seventhday adventists pray .	薩丁尼亞人祈禱 , 七天的廣告家祈禱 。
the okinawans have this ancestor veneration .	okinawans擁有這個祖先的神經 。
but when you're in a hurry or stressed out , that triggers something called the inflammatory response , which is associated with everything from alzheimer's disease to cardiovascular disease .	但當你受傷或壓力時 , 會觸發一種稱為發炎反應 , 這種反應和阿茲海默症有關 , 和心血管疾病有關 。
when you slow down for 15 minutes a day you turn that inflammatory state into a more antiinflammatory state .	當你一天慢下來15分鐘 , 把炎熱狀態轉化為更反炎狀態 。
they have vocabulary for sense of purpose , ikigai , like the okinawans .	他們有詞典的目的感 , 愛基加 , 例如 「 俄語 」 。
you know the two most dangerous years in your life are the year you're born , because of infant mortality , and the year you retire .	你知道你生命中最危險的兩年是你出生的一年 , 因為嬰兒死亡率 , 而你退休的那一年 。
these people know their sense of purpose , and they activate in their life , that's worth about seven years of extra life expectancy .	這些人知道自己的目的 , 他們活化了他們的生命 , 這值得花七年的預期壽命 。
there's no longevity diet .	沒有長壽的飲食 。
instead , these people drink a little bit every day , not a hard sell to the american population .	相反地 , 這些人每天都喝一點點錢 , 不是美國人 。
they tend to eat a plantbased diet .	他們通常會吃植物的飲食 。
doesn't mean they don't eat meat , but lots of beans and nuts .	並不是說他們不吃肉 , 而是很多豆子和堅果 。
and they have strategies to keep from overeating , little things that nudge them away from the table at the right time .	他們有策略來阻止過度過度的策略 , 讓他們在正確的時間內遠離桌子 。
and then the foundation of all this is how they connect .	這一切的基礎是他們如何連結 。
they put their families first , take care of their children and their aging parents .	他們先把家人送到家裡 , 照顧他們的孩子和老爸的父母 。
they all tend to belong to a faithbased community , which is worth between four and 14 extra years of life expectancy if you do it four times a month .	他們都傾向於以信仰為基礎的社區 , 值得四到十四年的預期壽命 , 每個月做四次 。
and the biggest thing here is they also belong to the right tribe .	這裡最大的原因是他們屬於對的部落 。
they were either born into or they proactively surrounded themselves with the right people .	他們要麼出生 , 要麼他們積極地圍繞著對人的身邊 。
we know from the framingham studies , that if your three best friends are obese there is a 50 percent better chance that you'll be overweight .	我們從弗林明罕的研究中得知 , 如果你的三個最好的朋友都肥胖了 , 你將會過度過重 。
so , if you hang out with unhealthy people , that's going to have a measurable impact over time .	所以 , 如果你和不健康的人在一起 , 隨著時間 , 會造成很大的影響 。
instead , if your friend's idea of recreation is physical activity , bowling , or playing hockey , biking or gardening , if your friends drink a little , but not too much , and they eat right , and they're engaged , and they're trusting and trustworthy , that is going to have the biggest impact over time .	相反地 , 如果你的朋友對重建的想法是實體的活動 , 弓 , 腳踏車或花園 , 如果你的朋友喝得一點點 , 但他們吃得太多 , 他們也很投入 , 他們相信和信任 , 隨著時間 , 會產生最大的影響 。
diets don't work . no diet in the history of the world has ever worked for more than two percent of the population .	飲食不行得通 , 世界上歷史上沒有飲食 , 超過百分之二的人口都行得通 。
exercise programs usually start in january ; they're usually done by october .	運動計畫通常是一月開始 , 通常是十月份做的 。
when it comes to longevity there is no short term fix in a pill or anything else .	談到長壽時 , 沒有藥丸或其他任何東西的短期解決方案 。
but when you think about it , your friends are longterm adventures , and therefore , perhaps the most significant thing you can do to add more years to your life , and life to your years . thank you very much .	但當你想一想 , 你的朋友是長期的冒險 , 因此 , 或許你能多多年的時間來增加你的生命 , 和你的日子 。 非常謝謝你們 。
ink that conducts electricity ; a window that turns from clear to opaque at the flip of a switch ; a jelly that makes music . all this stuff exists , and catarina mota says: it's time to play with it . mota leads us on a tour of surprising and cool new materials , and suggests that the way we'll figure out what they're good for is to experiment , tinker and have fun .	墨水會傳送電力 ; 一扇窗 , 轉向一個開關 , 一個可以創作音樂的水母 。 所有這些東西都存在 , 加大莫大說:該是玩 。 馬塔帶領我們進入一個驚喜和酷的新材料 , 並且建議我們如何去做實驗、粉紅色、有趣 。
creativity , design , technology	創造力、設計、科技、科技
catarina mota: play with smart materials	catarinamota:用智慧型材料來玩 。
i have a friend in portugal whose grandfather built a vehicle out of a bicycle and a washing machine so he could transport his family .	我有一個在葡萄牙的朋友 , 他的祖父建造了一台車 , 用腳踏車和洗衣機來運送他的家人 。
he did it because he couldn't afford a car , but also because he knew how to build one .	他這麼做是因為他買不起車 , 也因為他知道如何建造一台車 。
there was a time when we understood how things worked and how they were made , so we could build and repair them , or at the very least make informed decisions about what to buy .	有一段時間 , 我們了解到東西是如何運作的 , 以及它們是如何被製造出來的 , 這樣我們就能建立並修復它們 , 或在最少被知名的決策中 , 決定要買什麼 。
many of these doityourself practices were lost in the second half of the 20th century .	許多這些做法在二十世紀的第二半失去了 。
but now , the maker community and the opensource model are bringing this kind of knowledge about how things work and what they're made of back into our lives , and i believe we need to take them to the next level , to the components things are made of .	但現在 , 製造者和開放原始碼模型把知識帶回我們的生命中 , 它們是如何運作的 , 我相信我們需要把它們帶到下一個層面 , 到下一個層面 。
for the most part , we still know what traditional materials like paper and textiles are made of and how they are produced .	大部分的情況下 , 我們仍然知道像紙張和紡織品的傳統材料是什麼 , 製造出來的 。
but now we have these amazing , futuristic composites plastics that change shape , paints that conduct electricity , pigments that change color , fabrics that light up .	但現在我們有了這些驚人、具體的塑膠 , 會改變形狀 , 油漆會產生電力 , 顏料會改變顏色 , 會亮起來 。
let me show you some examples .	讓我給你們看一些例子 。
so conductive ink allows us to paint circuits instead of using the traditional printed circuit boards or wires .	所以 , 導電墨讓我們可以用傳統的印刷電路或電線來繪製電路 。
in the case of this little example i'm holding , we used it to create a touch sensor that reacts to my skin by turning on this little light .	以我所舉的這個小例子來說 , 我們用它來創造一個觸覺感應器 , 藉由啟動這個小小的光線來對我的皮膚做出反應 。
conductive ink has been used by artists , but recent developments indicate that we will soon be able to use it in laser printers and pens .	導電墨水被藝術家使用 , 但近期的發展指出 , 我們很快就能用雷射印表機和筆 。
and this is a sheet of acrylic infused with colorless lightdiffusing particles .	這是加密的加密表 , 充滿了無色光的粒子 。
what this means is that , while regular acrylic only diffuses light around the edges , this one illuminates across the entire surface when i turn on the lights around it .	這意謂著 , 一般的加密器只會在邊緣周圍散光 , 在這一顆光照亮整個表面 , 當我把光照在周圍的光線上時 。
two of the known applications for this material include interior design and multitouch systems .	其中兩個已知的應用程式包括內部設計和多觸覺系統 。
and thermochromic pigments change color at a given temperature .	熱染色體在特定溫度上改變顏色 。
so i'm going to place this on a hot plate that is set to a temperature only slightly higher than ambient and you can see what happens .	所以 , 我要把這個放在一個熱板上 , 設定在溫度上 , 比野生動物更高 , 你可以看到發生了什麼事 。
so one of the principle applications for this material is , amongst other things , in baby bottles , so it indicates when the contents are cool enough to drink .	所以 , 這種材料的原則之一是 , 在嬰兒瓶中 , 其它的原則是 , 當內容夠酷時 , 它會指出 , 內容是很酷的飲料 。
so these are just a few of what are commonly known as smart materials .	這些只是一些常被稱為智慧型材料的東西 。
in a few years , they will be in many of the objects and technologies we use on a daily basis .	幾年後 , 它們將成為我們日常使用的物品和技術 。
we may not yet have the flying cars science fiction promised us , but we can have walls that change color depending on temperature , keyboards that roll up , and windows that become opaque at the flick of a switch .	我們可能還沒有飛行汽車 , 科幻小說讓我們承諾 , 但是我們可以有牆壁 , 以溫度來改變顏色 , 按鍵板滾動 , 轉動的窗戶 , 轉換成開關的光線 。
so i'm a social scientist by training , so why am i here today talking about smart materials ?	所以 , 我是一位社會科學家 , 為何我今天要談的是智慧型材料 ?
well first of all , because i am a maker .	首先 , 因為我是個製造家 。
i'm curious about how things work and how they are made , but also because i believe we should have a deeper understanding of the components that make up our world , and right now , we don't know enough about these hightech composites our future will be made of .	我很好奇事物是如何運作的 , 以及它們是如何製作的 , 也因為我相信我們應該更深入了解組成我們的世界的元件 , 而現在 , 我們對這些高科技的組合並不足夠 。
smart materials are hard to obtain in small quantities .	智慧型材料很難在很小的數量中取得 。
there's barely any information available on how to use them , and very little is said about how they are produced .	幾乎沒有任何資訊可以用在如何使用它們 , 很少是說它們是如何產生的 。
so for now , they exist mostly in this realm of trade secrets and patents only universities and corporations have access to .	所以現在 , 它們主要存在於交易秘密和專利領域 , 只有大學和企業才能取得 。
so a little over three years ago , kirsty boyle and i started a project we called open materials .	三年前 , 我和kirsty男孩開始了一個計畫 , 我們稱之為 「 開放材料 」 。
it's a website where we , and anyone else who wants to join us , share experiments , publish information , encourage others to contribute whenever they can , and aggregate resources such as research papers and tutorials by other makers like ourselves .	這是個網站 , 我們和任何想要加入我們的人 , 共同實驗 , 發表訊息 , 鼓勵其他人可以發揮貢獻 , 包括研究論文和教學 , 像是我們自己 。
we would like it to become a large , collectively generated database of doityourself information on smart materials .	我們希望它能成為一個龐大、集體的多元資料庫 , 以智慧型材料來建立資料庫 。
but why should we care how smart materials work and what they are made of ?	但為何我們要在乎聰明的材料如何運作和它們的成果 ?
first of all , because we can't shape what we don't understand , and what we don't understand and use ends up shaping us .	首先 , 因為我們無法塑造我們不了解的事物 , 以及我們不了解的 , 最後用的是塑造我們 。
the objects we use , the clothes we wear , the houses we live in , all have a profound impact on our behavior , health and quality of life .	我們所使用的物品 , 衣服 , 我們所居住的房子 , 都對我們的行為、健康和生活品質有很大的影響 。
so if we are to live in a world made of smart materials , we should know and understand them .	如果我們要生活在一個智慧型材料的世界 , 我們應該要知道並了解它們 。
secondly , and just as important , innovation has always been fueled by tinkerers .	第二 , 同樣重要的是 , 創新總是被粉紅色的人所燃燒 。
so many times , amateurs , not experts , have been the inventors and improvers of things ranging from mountain bikes to semiconductors , personal computers , airplanes .	許多時候 , 業餘者 , 不是專家 , 曾經是來自山區的發明家和改進者 , 從自行車到半導體、個人電腦、飛機 。
the biggest challenge is that material science is complex and requires expensive equipment .	最大的挑戰是 , 物質科學是複雜且需要昂貴的設備 。
but that's not always the case .	但事實並非如此 。
two scientists at university of illinois understood this when they published a paper on a simpler method for making conductive ink .	伊利諾大學的兩個科學家了解這一點 , 當時他們在一個簡單的方法上發表了一張紙 , 用來做導電墨 。
jordan bunker , who had had no experience with chemistry until then , read this paper and reproduced the experiment at his maker space using only offtheshelf substances and tools .	約旦bunker , 他完全沒有化學經驗 , 直到那時 , 閱讀這篇論文 , 並在他的製造者空間中複製這個實驗 , 只用自身的物質和工具 。
he used a toaster oven , and he even made his own vortex mixer , based on a tutorial by another scientist/maker .	他用了烤箱 , 甚至製作了他自己的vortex混合器 , 根據另一個科學家/maker的直覺 。
jordan then published his results online , including all the things he had tried and didn't work , so others could study and reproduce it .	約旦後來在網路上發表了他的結果 , 包括所有他曾經嘗試過的東西 , 沒有工作 , 其他人可以研究並繁殖它 。
so jordan's main form of innovation was to take an experiment created in a wellequipped lab at the university and recreate it in a garage in chicago using only cheap materials and tools he made himself .	所以 , 約旦的主要創新是要在大學創造一個很好的實驗 , 並在芝加哥的車庫用便宜的材料和工具來重建這個實驗 。
and now that he published this work , others can pick up where he left and devise even simpler processes and improvements .	現在他發表了這項工作 , 其他人可以在他左邊的位置 , 設想更簡單的過程和改善 。
another example i'd like to mention her project's goal is to highlight the expressive qualities of materials while focusing on the creativity and skills of the builder .	另外一個例子 , 我想提到她的專案目的 , 是要強調材料的特質 , 同時專注於創造力和技能 。
electronics kits are very powerful in that they teach us how things work , but the constraints inherent in their design influence the way we learn .	電子設備在他們教導我們事物如何運作 , 但他們設計的限制會影響我們學習的方式 。
so hannah's approach , on the other hand , is to formulate a series of techniques for creating unusual objects that free us from predesigned constraints by teaching us about the materials themselves .	另一方面 , 漢娜的做法是建立一系列的技術 , 來創造出不尋常的物品 , 來免費我們的限制 , 來教導我們這些材料本身 。
so amongst hannah's many impressive experiments , this is one of my favorites .	在漢娜許多令人印象深刻的實驗中 , 這是我最喜歡的一個實驗之一 。
[ " paper speakers " ] what we're seeing here is just a piece of paper with some copper tape on it connected to an mp3 player and a magnet .	[紙喇叭]我們現在看到的只是一張紙 , 上面有一些銅帶 , 連接到mp3播放器和磁鐵 。
so based on the research by marcelo coelho from mit , hannah created a series of paper speakers out of a wide range of materials from simple copper tape to conductive fabric and ink .	所以 , 根據麻省理工學院的marcelocoho的研究 , 漢娜創造了一系列的紙喇叭 , 從簡單的銅線到導電布和墨水 。
just like jordan and so many other makers , hannah published her recipes and allows anyone to copy and reproduce them .	就像jordan和許多其他製造商 , 漢娜出版了她的食譜 , 讓任何人可以複製和繁殖它們 。
but paper electronics is one of the most promising branches of material science in that it allows us to create cheaper and flexible electronics .	但紙質電子學是最有前景的材料科學分支 , 它讓我們能夠創造更便宜且彈性的電子學 。
so hannah's artisanal work , and the fact that she shared her findings , opens the doors to a series of new possibilities that are both aesthetically appealing and innovative .	所以漢娜的工藝工作 , 她分享她的發現 , 把門打開給一連串的新可能性 , 都是合理的、有創新的 。
so the interesting thing about makers is that we create out of passion and curiosity , and we are not afraid to fail .	所以 , 製造者有趣的是 , 我們用熱情和好奇心創造出來 , 而我們並不害怕失敗 。
we often tackle problems from unconventional angles , and , in the process , end up discovering alternatives or even better ways to do things .	我們經常從未有的角度解決問題 , 在過程中 , 最後發現了其他的替代方案 , 甚至更好的方式來做事 。
so the more people experiment with materials , the more researchers are willing to share their research , and manufacturers their knowledge , the better chances we have to create technologies that truly serve us all .	所以越多人用材料做實驗 , 越多研究人員願意分享他們的研究 , 製造出他們的知識 , 我們就越有機會創造出真正為我們服務的科技 。
so i feel a bit as ted nelson must have when , in the early 1970s , he wrote , " you must understand computers now . "	所以 , 我覺得tednelson一定有時 , 在1970年代早期 , 他寫道: 「 你現在必須要了解電腦了 。 」
back then , computers were these large mainframes only scientists cared about , and no one dreamed of even having one at home .	當時 , 電腦是這些大型的主流 , 只有科學家在乎 , 沒有人在家裡想過 , 甚至在家裡也沒有人夢想過 。
so it's a little strange that i'm standing here and saying , " you must understand smart materials now . "	所以這有點奇怪 , 我站在這裡 , 說: 「 你現在必須要了解智慧型材料 。 」
just keep in mind that acquiring preemptive knowledge about emerging technologies is the best way to ensure that we have a say in the making of our future .	請記住 , 要獲得新興科技的先進知識是確保我們未來的說法最好的 。
when we drive , we get into a glass bubble , lock the doors and press the accelerator , relying on our eyes to guide us even though we can only see the few cars ahead of and behind us . but what if cars could share data with each other about their position and velocity , and use predictive models to calculate the safest routes for everyone on the road ? jennifer healey imagines a world without accidents .	當我們開車時 , 我們會進入玻璃泡 , 把門鎖住 , 壓住加速器 , 仰賴我們的眼睛來引導我們 , 雖然我們只能看到我們身後的少數車子 。 但如果車子可以和彼此分享他們的位置和速度 , 用預測模型來計算每個人在路上最安全的路線嗎 ? 珍妮佛•艾利 , 想像一個沒有意外的世界 。
jennifer healey: if cars could talk , accidents might be avoidable	珍妮佛.療法:如果車子能說話 , 意外就會避免發生 。
let's face it: driving is dangerous .	讓我們面對現實:開車是危險的 。
it's one of the things that we don't like to think about , but the fact that religious icons and good luck charms show up on dashboards around the world betrays the fact that we know this to be true .	這是我們不喜歡思考的一件事 , 但事實上 , 宗教的圖標和好運的圖表顯示在世界各地的儀表板上 , 背叛我們所知的事實 。
car accidents are the leading cause of death in people ages 16 to 19 in the united states leading cause of death and 75 percent of these accidents have nothing to do with drugs or alcohol .	車禍是16到19歲的人死因的主要原因 , 在美國 , 導致死亡 , 75%的意外事件與毒品或酒精無關 。
no one can say for sure , but i remember my first accident .	沒有人能肯定地說話 , 但我記得我的第一個意外 。
i was a young driver out on the highway , and the car in front of me , i saw the brake lights go on .	我是一位年輕的司機在高速公路上 , 車子在我面前 , 我看到了煞車燈亮了 。
i'm like , " okay , all right , this guy is slowing down , i'll slow down too . "	我說: 「 好吧 , 好吧 , 這個傢伙正在慢下來 , 我也會慢下來 。 」
i step on the brake .	我站在煞車上 。
but no , this guy isn't slowing down .	但 , 不 , 這個傢伙並沒有慢下來 。
this guy is stopping , dead stop , dead stop on the highway .	這個傢伙停下來 , 停下來 , 停在高速公路上 。
it was just going 65 to zero ?	只需要65到0 ?
i slammed on the brakes .	我衝在煞車上 。
i felt the abs kick in , and the car is still going , and it's not going to stop , and i know it's not going to stop , and the air bag deploys , the car is totaled , and fortunately , no one was hurt .	我感覺到abskick進來 , 車仍然在走 , 不會停下來 , 我知道它不會停下來 , 空氣袋部署 , 幸運的是 , 沒有人會受傷 。
but i had no idea that car was stopping , and i think we can do a lot better than that .	但我不知道車子已經停下來了 , 我認為我們能做得更好 。
i think we can transform the driving experience by letting our cars talk to each other .	我認為我們可以改變駕駛經驗 , 讓車子彼此交流 。
i just want you to think a little bit about what the experience of driving is like now .	我只是想讓你們思考一下現在駕駛的經驗是什麼 。
get into your car . close the door . you're in a glass bubble .	走進你的車 , 關門 。 你在一個玻璃泡泡 。
you can't really directly sense the world around you .	你無法直接感知你周遭的世界 。
you're in this extended body .	你身在這個延伸的身體中 。
you're tasked with navigating it down partiallyseen roadways , in and amongst other metal giants , at superhuman speeds .	你的任務是用一部分的路徑來導航它 , 在另一塊金屬巨人中 , 在超級人類的速度中 。
okay ? and all you have to guide you are your two eyes .	好嗎 ? 你只需要指引你是你的雙眼 。
okay , so that's all you have , eyes that weren't really designed for this task , but then people ask you to do things like , you want to make a lane change , what's the first thing they ask you do ?	好吧 , 那你只有眼睛 , 不是為了這個任務而設計的 , 但是人們要求你做這樣的事 , 你想做出一個改變 , 他們要你做的第一件事是什麼 ?
take your eyes off the road . that's right .	把你的眼睛從路邊脫下來 , 沒錯 。
stop looking where you're going , turn , check your blind spot , and drive down the road without looking where you're going .	別再看你要去哪裡 , 轉身 , 看看你的盲點 , 不用看你要去哪裡 。
you and everyone else . this is the safe way to drive .	你和其他人 , 這是開車的安全路徑 。
why do we do this ? because we have to , we have to make a choice , do i look here or do i look here ?	為什麼我們要這樣做 ? 因為我們必須做出選擇 , 我要在這裡看或是看這裡 ?
and usually we do a fantastic job picking and choosing what we attend to on the road .	通常我們會做一份很棒的工作 , 選擇我們要在路上做的事 。
but occasionally we miss something .	但偶爾 , 我們錯過了某樣東西 。
occasionally we sense something wrong or too late .	偶爾 , 我們會感覺錯了或太遲 。
in countless accidents , the driver says , " i didn't see it coming . "	無數的意外 , 司機說: 「 我看不到它來了 。 」
and i believe that . i believe that .	我相信 , 我相信 。
we can only watch so much .	我們只能看得太多 。
but the technology exists now that can help us improve that .	但現在的科技可以幫助我們改善這一點 。
in the future , with cars exchanging data with each other , we will be able to see not just three cars ahead and three cars behind , to the right and left , all at the same time , bird's eye view , we will actually be able to see into those cars .	在未來 , 車子互相交換資料 , 我們不只能看到三輛車 , 三輛車 , 到右邊和左邊 , 同時 , 鳥的眼睛 , 我們就能看見這些車子 。
we will be able to see the velocity of the car in front of us , to see how fast that guy's going or stopping .	我們將能夠看到在我們面前的車子的速度 , 看到那個人走得多快 , 或停下來 。
if that guy's going down to zero , i'll know .	如果那個人下降到零 , 我就會知道 。
and with computation and algorithms and predictive models , we will be able to see the future .	有了計算和演算法和預測模型 , 我們就能看見未來 。
you may think that's impossible .	你可能覺得這不可能 。
how can you predict the future ? that's really hard .	你要如何預測未來 ? 這真的很難 。
actually , no . with cars , it's not impossible .	實際上 , 沒有車子 , 不是不可能 。
cars are threedimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity .	汽車是三維的物體 , 有固定的位置和速度 。
they travel down roads .	他們在路上行走 。
often they travel on prepublished routes .	通常他們會在公開的路線上旅行 。
it's really not that hard to make reasonable predictions about where a car's going to be in the near future .	要做出合理的預測 , 並不難 , 無法預測未來車會在哪裡 。
even if , when you're in your car and some motorcyclist comes bshoom ! 85 miles an hour down , lanesplitting i know you've had this experience that guy didn't " just come out of nowhere . "	即便你在車子裡 , 有些摩托車的人來了 , 每小時85英哩 ! 拉內斯普洛斯--我知道你有過這個經驗--那傢伙沒有 「 不出門 」 的經驗 。
that guy's been on the road probably for the last half hour .	那個人在路上大概是過去的半小時 。
right ? i mean , somebody's seen him .	對嗎 ? 我的意思是 , 有人看過他 。
ten , 20 , 30 miles back , someone's seen that guy , and as soon as one car sees that guy and puts him on the map , he's on the map position , velocity , good estimate he'll continue going 85 miles an hour .	十、二十、三十英哩後 , 有人看過這個傢伙 , 一旦一輛車看到那個人 , 把他放在地圖上 , 他就在地圖上位置、速度、估計他會每小時要走85英哩 。
you'll know , because your car will know , because that other car will have whispered something in his ear , like , " by the way , five minutes , motorcyclist , watch out . "	你會知道 , 因為你的車會知道 , 因為另一輛車會在他的耳朵上揮之不去 , 比如: 「 順便一提 , 五分鐘 , 摩托車騎士 , 看 。 」
you can make reasonable predictions about how cars behave .	你可以做出合理的預測 , 預測車子的行為 。
i mean , they're newtonian objects .	我的意思是 , 它們是牛頓的物體 。
that's very nice about them .	這對他們是非常好的 。
so how do we get there ?	那我們該怎麼辦到呢 ?
we can start with something as simple as sharing our position data between cars , just sharing gps .	我們可以從簡單的開始 , 如共享汽車之間的位置資料 , 分享gps 。
if i have a gps and a camera in my car , i have a pretty precise idea of where i am and how fast i'm going .	如果我有一台gps和一台攝影機 , 我對於我在哪裡 , 以及我要走多快 。
with computer vision , i can estimate where the cars around me are , sort of , and where they're going .	有了電腦視覺 , 我可以估計我周圍的車子的位置 , 有點像 , 他們會去哪裡 。
and same with the other cars .	和其他車子一樣 。
they can have a precise idea of where they are , and sort of a vague idea of where the other cars are .	他們可以有一個精確的點子 , 一個模糊的點子 , 可以解釋其他車子在哪裡 。
what happens if two cars share that data , if they talk to each other ?	如果兩輛車共用這些資料 , 如果他們彼此交談 , 會發生什麼事 ?
i can tell you exactly what happens .	我可以告訴你發生了什麼事 。
professor bob wang and his team have done computer simulations of what happens when fuzzy estimates combine , even in light traffic , when cars just share gps data , and we've moved this research out of the computer simulation and into robot test beds that have the actual sensors that are in cars now on these robots: stereo cameras , gps , and the twodimensional laser range finders that are common in backup systems .	波布教授和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 來模擬當燃料結合時 , 甚至在光線交通中 , 我們把這個研究從電腦模擬和機器人測試床上 , 讓機器人的感測器現在在這些機器人上 , 史里奧攝影機、gps , 以及二維的雷射範圍 , 發現這些系統中常見的系統 。
we also attach a discrete shortrange communication radio , and the robots talk to each other .	我們也將一個短距離通訊無線電附著 , 機器人彼此交流 。
when these robots come at each other , they track each other's position precisely , and they can avoid each other .	當這些機器人互相接觸時 , 它們會精確地追蹤彼此的位置 , 它們就能避免彼此 。
we're now adding more and more robots into the mix , and we encountered some problems .	我們現在越來越多的機器人在混合中加入 , 我們遇到了一些問題 。
one of the problems , when you get too much chatter , it's hard to process all the packets , so you have to prioritize , and that's where the predictive model helps you .	其中一個問題是 , 當你有太多的聊天 , 要處理所有包裝 , 要優先順序 , 那就是預測模型可以幫助你 。
if your robot cars are all tracking the predicted trajectories , you don't pay as much attention to those packets .	如果你的機器人汽車都在追蹤預測軌跡 , 你不會注意到那些包裝 。
you prioritize the one guy who seems to be going a little off course .	你優先把一個看起來有點偏離軌道的那個人 。
that guy could be a problem .	那個人可能會是個問題 。
and you can predict the new trajectory .	你可以預測新的軌跡 。
so you don't only know that he's going off course , you know how .	所以你不只知道他要走下去 , 你知道他怎麼走 。
and you know which drivers you need to alert to get out of the way .	而且你知道你需要哪個駕駛 , 才能走出路 。
and we wanted to do how can we best alert everyone ?	我們想做的事是如何讓每個人更能警告嗎 ?
how can these cars whisper , " you need to get out of the way ? "	這些車是怎麼可能的 ? " 你需要走出路 ? "
well , it depends on two things: one , the ability of the car , and second the ability of the driver .	嗯 , 這取決於兩件事:第一 , 車的能力 , 第二 , 駕駛的能力 。
if one guy has a really great car , but they're on their phone or , you know , doing something , they're not probably in the best position to react in an emergency .	如果一個人有一台很棒的車 , 但他們在手機上 , 或在做某件事 , 他們可能不是最好的職位 , 要在緊急情況下做出反應 。
so we started a separate line of research doing driver state modeling .	所以 , 我們開始了一系列的研究 , 做為駕駛狀態模型 。
and now , using a series of three cameras , we can detect if a driver is looking forward , looking away , looking down , on the phone , or having a cup of coffee .	現在 , 使用一系列三台攝影機 , 我們可以偵測駕駛向前 , 向下看 , 看著手機 , 或喝杯咖啡 。
we can predict the accident and we can predict who , which cars , are in the best position to move out of the way to calculate the safest route for everyone .	我們可以預測意外 , 我們可以預測誰 , 哪個車子 , 最好的位置是要讓每個人計算最安全的路線 。
fundamentally , these technologies exist today .	基本上 , 這些科技是現今存在的 。
i think the biggest problem that we face is our own willingness to share our data .	我認為我們所面臨的最大的問題就是我們自願分享我們的資料 。
i think it's a very disconcerting notion , this idea that our cars will be watching us , talking about us to other cars , that we'll be going down the road in a sea of gossip .	我覺得這是個非常令人困惑的概念 , 我們的車會看著我們 , 和其他車子談起 , 我們會在大西洋向下走 。
but i believe it can be done in a way that protects our privacy , just like right now , when i look at your car from the outside , i don't really know about you .	但我相信 , 可以用一種保護我們的隱私的方式來保護我們的隱私 , 就像現在 , 當我從外面看你的車 , 我不知道你在做什麼 。
if i look at your license plate number , i don't really know who you are .	如果我看你的牌號碼 , 我不知道你是誰 。
i believe our cars can talk about us behind our backs .	我相信我們的車子可以在我們的背後談論我們 。
and i think it's going to be a great thing .	我認為這將會是件好事 。
i want you to consider for a moment if you really don't want the distracted teenager behind you to know that you're braking , that you're coming to a dead stop .	請各位考慮一下 , 如果你不希望你背後的青少年分散的青少年 , 知道你在煞車 , 你正要停下來 。
by sharing our data willingly , we can do what's best for everyone .	透過分享我們的數據 , 我們就能為每個人做最好的做法 。
so let your car gossip about you .	所以 , 讓你的車子對你說話 。
it's going to make the roads a lot safer .	它會讓道路變得更安全 。
x prize founder peter diamandis talks about how he helped stephen hawking fulfill his dream of going to space by flying together into the upper atmosphere and experiencing weightlessness at zero g .	xprize創辦人彼得•迪安德斯談到他如何幫助史蒂芬•霍金的夢想 , 透過把他一起飛到大氣中 , 並在零g中體驗無重力的夢想 。
business , flight , science , short talk , space , technology , universe	商業、飛行、科學、短暫的演講、科技、宇宙、宇宙 。
peter diamandis on stephen hawking in zero g	彼得•迪安德斯在零格的斯蒂芬霍金州斯蒂芬.戴維斯上了peter.
those of you who know me know how passionate i am about opening the space frontier .	那些認識我的人 , 都知道我有多熱情 , 打開太空前進 。
so when i had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity , it was incredible .	所以當我有機會給予世界重力的專家 , 不可思議地心引力的體驗 , 這實在是不可思議 。
and i want to tell you that story .	我想要告訴你們這個故事 。
i first met him through the archon x prize for genomics .	我第一次見到他 , 透過archonxprize來基因組學獎 。
it's a competition we're holding , the second x prize , for the first team to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days .	這是我們的競爭 , 第二個xprize , 第一個團隊在10天內完成100個人類基因組定序 。
we have something called the genome 100 100 individuals we're sequencing as part of that .	我們有一種叫做基因組100個人的基因組 , 我們被定序為其中一部分 。
craig venter chairs that event .	克雷格•凡特的椅子 。
and i met professor hawking , and he said his dream was to travel into space .	我遇見了霍金教授 , 他說他的夢想是進入太空 。
and i said , " i can't take you there , but i can take you into weightlessness into zerog .	我說: 「 我不能帶你到那裡 , 但我可以帶你到無重力之中 。
and he said , on the spot , " absolutely , yes . "	他說: 「 沒錯 , 是的 。 」
well , the only way to experience zerog on earth is actually with parabolic flight , weightless flight .	嗯 , 世界上唯一能體驗零的途徑 , 其實是飛行傘 , 無重力飛行 。
you take an airplane , you fly over the top , you're weightless for 25 seconds .	你拿一個飛機 , 你飛越頂端 , 你有25秒的重量 。
come back down , you weigh twice as much .	再回來 , 再重兩倍 。
you do it again and again .	你再做一次 。
you can get eight , 10 minutes of weightlessness how nasa's trained their astronauts for so long .	你可以得到8 , 10分鐘的無重力訓練nasa的太空人多久才被訓練出來 。
we set out to do this .	我們開始這樣做 。
it took us 11 years to become operational .	我們花了11年才開始營運 。
and we announced that we were going to fly stephen hawking .	我們宣佈我們要飛史蒂芬•霍金 。
we had one government agency and one company aircraft operator say , you're crazy , don't do that , you're going kill the guy .	我們有一間政府機構 , 一間公司的飛機操作員說 , 你瘋了 , 別這樣做 , 你要殺了這個傢伙 。
and he wanted to go .	他想要去 。
we worked hard to get all the permissions .	我們努力取得所有允許 。
and six months later , we sat down at kennedy space center .	六個月後 , 我們坐在甘迺迪太空中心 。
we had a press conference , we announced our intent to do one zerog parabola , give him 25 seconds of zerog .	我們有一場媒體研討會 , 我們宣佈了我們的意圖 , 給他25秒的零 。
and if it went really well , we might do three parabolas .	如果它運行得非常好 , 我們可能會做三架拋物線 。
well , we asked him why he wanted to go up and do this .	嗯 , 我們問他為什麼要去做這件事 。
and what he said , for me , was very moving .	他對我說 , 對我來說 , 非常感動 。
he said , " life on earth is at an everincreasing risk of being wiped out by disaster . . .	他說: 「 地球上的生命 , 被災難摧毀的風險越來越高 。
i think the human race doesn't have a future if it doesn't go into space .	我想 , 人類在太空中不會有未來 。
i therefore want to encourage public interest in space . "	所以我想鼓勵大眾對太空的興趣 。 」
we took him out to the kennedy space center , up inside the nasa vehicle , into the back of the zerog airplane .	我們把他帶到甘迺迪太空中心 , 在美國太空總署的飛機後面 , 帶到零飛機的後面 。
we had about 20 people who made donations we raised $150 , 000 in donations for children's charities who flew with us .	我們有大約20個捐贈者 , 他們捐贈了一萬五萬美金給兒童慈善機構的捐贈者 。
a few tedsters here .	這裡有幾個tedster 。
we set up a whole er .	我們設立了整個急診室 。
we had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane .	我們有四個急診室醫生和兩位護士在飛機上 。
we were monitoring his po2 of his blood , his heart rate , his blood pressure .	我們在監測他的血液中 , 他的心跳率 , 他的血壓 。
we had everything all set in case of an emergency ; god knows , you don't want to hurt this worldrenowned expert .	上帝知道 , 你不想傷害這個世界的專家 。
we took off from the shuttle landing facility , where the shuttle takes off and lands .	我們從太空梭降落設施中脫落 , 太空梭起飛和降落 。
and my partner byron lichtenberg and i carefully suspended him into zerog .	我和我的伴侶lichtenberg , 小心地把他綁在零 。
once he was there , [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like .	一旦他在那裡 , 我們讓他去體驗無重力的感覺 。
and after that first parabola , you know , the doc said everything is great . he was smiling , and we said go .	在第一個拋物架之後 , 你知道嗎 , 醫生說一切都很棒 。 他微笑了 , 我們說: 「 去吧 ! 」
so we did a second parabola .	所以我們做了第二個拋物線 。
we actually floated an apple in homage to sir isaac newton because professor hawking holds the same chair at cambridge that isaac newton did .	實際上 , 我們把一顆蘋果搬到比薩•牛頓 , 因為霍金教授在劍橋有同樣的椅子 , 艾薩克•牛頓的確 。
and we did a fourth , and a fifth and a sixth .	我們做了第四次 , 第五次和第六次 。
and a seventh and an eighth .	第七和第八個 。
and this man does not look like a 65yearold wheelchairbound man .	這個人看起來不像一個65歲的輪椅人 。
he was so happy .	他很高興 。
we are living on a precious jewel , and it's during our lifetime that we're moving off this planet .	我們正生活在一個珍貴的珠寶上 , 而在我們的一生中 , 我們正在離開這個星球 。
please join us in this epic adventure .	請加入我們這個史詩般的冒險 。
medical animator david bolinsky presents 3 minutes of stunning animation that show the bustling life inside a cell .	醫學動畫家大衛•鮑林斯基在細胞內展現了三分鐘的驚人動畫 。
design , entertainment , film , health , medicine , science , technology , visualizations	設計、娛樂、電影、健康、醫學、科學、技術、視覺化 。
david bolinsky animates a cell	davidbolinsky是一個細胞的動畫
i'm a medical illustrator , and i come from a slightly different point of view .	我是個醫學插圖師 , 我來自一個稍微不同的觀點 。
i've been watching , since i grew up , the expressions of truth and beauty in the arts and truth and beauty in the sciences .	我一直在觀察 , 自從我長大後 , 藝術和美麗的表達方式 , 都是科學的美 。
and while these are both wonderful things in their own right they both have very wonderful things going for them truth and beauty as ideals that can be looked at by the sciences and by math are almost like the ideal conjoined twins that a scientist would want to date .	雖然這些都是他們自己的權利 , 他們都有非常美好的事物 , 會讓他們成為理想和美麗的理想 , 可以透過數學 , 就像一個科學家想約會的理想結合的雙胞胎 。
these are expressions of truth as awefull things , by meaning they are things you can worship .	這些是真理的表達 , 意思是 , 它們是你可以崇拜的事物 。
they are ideals that are powerful . they are irreducible .	它們是很強大的理想 。 它們是不可思議的 。
they are unique . they are useful sometimes , often a long time after the fact .	他們是獨一無二的 , 有時是有用的 , 通常是事實之後很長一段時間 。
and you can actually roll some of the pictures now , because i don't want to look at me on the screen .	你現在可以滾一些照片 , 因為我不想在螢幕上看著我 。
truth and beauty are things that are often opaque to people who are not in the sciences .	真相和美 , 通常是對不在科學領域的人來說 , 相反的 。
they are things that describe beauty in a way that is often only accessible if you understand the language and the syntax of the person who studies the subject in which truth and beauty is expressed .	它們是用來形容美的事物 , 通常只能用你了解語言和研究主題的人的語調來形容美 。
if you look at the math , e=mc squared , if you look at the cosmological constant , where there's an anthropic ideal , where you see that life had to evolve from the numbers that describe the universe these are things that are really difficult to understand .	如果你看數學 , e=mc的平方 , 如果你看宇宙的常數 , 那裡有一個人類的理想 , 你可以看到生命必須從數字演化出來 , 來描述宇宙這些東西是非常難理解的 。
and what i've tried to do since i had my training as a medical illustrator since i was taught animation by my father , who was a sculptor and my visual mentor i wanted to figure out a way to help people understand truth and beauty in the biological sciences by using animation , by using pictures , by telling stories so that the things that are not necessarily evident to people can be brought forth , and can be taught , and can be understood .	自從我教導我身為醫學插畫家之後 , 我就試著去做 , 我父親是雕塑家和我的視覺導師 , 我想要想辦法幫助人們了解生物科學的真與美 , 透過使用動畫 , 透過用圖片 , 來告訴故事 , 告訴大家 , 那些不見得會被帶到的事物 , 可以被教導 , 並且可以被理解 。
students today are often immersed in an environment where what they learn is subjects that have truth and beauty embedded in them , but the way they're taught is compartmentalized and it's drawn down to the point where the truth and beauty are not always evident .	今天的學生們常常在一個環境中沉浸在他們學習的主題中 , 擁有真實和美麗的主題 , 但他們被教導的方式是相互矛盾的 , 並且被吸引到真相和美並不是總是明顯的 。
it's almost like that old recipe for chicken soup where you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone .	差不多是雞湯的古老食譜 , 你把雞炸掉 , 直到味道消失了 。
we don't want to do that to our students .	我們不想這樣對我們的學生做 。
so we have an opportunity to really open up education .	所以我們有機會真正開放教育 。
and i had a telephone call from robert lue at harvard , in the molecular and cellular biology department , a couple of years ago . he asked me if my team and i would be interested and willing to really change how medical and scientific education is done at harvard .	幾年前 , 我和哈佛的robertlue打電話給我 , 在哈佛的分子和細胞生物學系裡 , 他問我 , 我的團隊是否會對我感興趣 , 並願意真正改變哈佛醫學和科學教育的做法 。
so we embarked on a project that would explore the cell that would explore the truth and beauty inherent in molecular and cellular biology so that students could understand a larger picture that they could hang all of these facts on .	所以我們開始著手進行一個計畫 , 探索細胞的真與美 , 探索分子和細胞生物學中的真與美 , 讓學生可以更大的理解這些事實 。
they could have a mental image of the cell as a large , bustling , hugely complicated city that's occupied by micromachines .	他們可以把細胞的心智圖像做為一個大型、忙碌的、非常複雜的城市 , 由微機械組成 。
and these micromachines really are at the heart of life .	而這些微機械是生命的核心 。
these micromachines , which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over , are selfdirected , powerful , precise , accurate devices that are made out of strings of amino acids .	這些微機械 , 來自世界各地的奈米技術專家 , 都是自我導向、強大、精準、精準的裝置 , 由胺基酸的弦組成 。
and these micromachines power how a cell moves .	而這些微機械能是細胞如何移動的 。
they power how a cell replicates . they power our hearts .	它們會影響細胞如何複製 , 它們會影響我們的心臟 。
they power our minds .	它們會影響我們的心智 。
and so what we wanted to do was to figure out how we could make this story into an animation that would be the centerpiece of biovisions at harvard , which is a website that harvard has for its molecular and cellular biology students that will in addition to all the textual information , in addition to all the didactic stuff put everything together visually , so that these students would have an internalized view of what a cell really is in all of its truth and beauty , and be able to study with this view in mind , so that their imaginations would be sparked , so that their passions would be sparked and so that they would be able to go on and use these visions in their head to make new discoveries and to be able to find out , really , how life works .	所以我們想做的是想辦法把這個故事做成一個動畫 , 讓哈佛生物的中心在哈佛大學 , 一個網站是哈佛的分子和細胞生物學學生 , 加上所有文字的資訊 , 加上所有做法 , 加上所有做法 , 加上所有做法 , 加上所有做法 , 讓這些學生可以把一切放在一起 , 以內化的視覺和美麗來研究這個觀點 , 以致於他們的想法 , 以此類推測 , 以致於他們的生命 , 以此類推論 , 以至於他們會如何運用這些觀點 。
so we set out by looking at how these molecules are put together .	所以我們開始研究這些分子如何組合在一起 。
we worked with a theme , which is , you've got macrophages that are streaming down a capillary , and they're touching the surface of the capillary wall , and they're picking up information from cells that are on the capillary wall , and they are given this information that there's an inflammation somewhere outside , where they can't see and sense .	我們和一個主題合作 , 也就是 , 你有巨噬菌體 , 正在流著微小的管道 , 它們會觸碰微血管牆的表面 , 它們會從細菌牆上取得資訊 , 它們會得到在外面某處發炎的資訊 , 在那裡 , 它們無法看見和感知 。
but they get the information that causes them to stop , causes them to internalize that they need to make all of the various parts that will cause them to change their shape , and try to get out of this capillary and find out what's going on .	但他們得到的資訊會使他們停下來 , 使他們內化 , 他們需要做出各式各樣的零件 , 讓他們改變他們的形狀 , 試著脫離這個微鏡 , 找出發生了什麼事 。
so these molecular motors we had to work with the harvard scientists and databank models of the atomically accurate molecules and figure out how they moved , and figure out what they did .	所以這些分子馬達我們必須和哈佛科學家和資料庫模型一起合作 , 準確地準確的分子 , 並找出它們是如何移動 , 找出它們是如何做到的 。
and figure out how to do this in a way that was truthful in that it imparted what was going on , but not so truthful that the compact crowding in a cell would prevent the vista from happening .	想出如何用這種方式來實現這個狀況 , 卻沒有真正的事實 , 細胞內的群眾會阻止這個狀況 。
and so what i'm going to show you is a threeminute reader's digest version of the first aspect of this film that we produced . it's an ongoing project that's going to go another four or five years .	接下來我要給你們看的是一部三分鐘的讀者我們製作的這部電影的第一個面向 。 這是個不斷的計劃 , 接下來要花四到五年 。
and i want you to look at this and see the paths that the cell manufactures these little walking machines , they're called kinesins that take these huge loads that would challenge an ant in relative size .	我希望你們看看這個 , 看看細胞製造這些小步行機器的路徑 , 他們叫kinesins , 採用相對大小的載荷來挑戰一隻螞蟻 。
run the movie , please .	播放這部電影 , 拜託 。
but these machines that power the inside of the cells are really quite amazing , and they really are the basis of all life because all of these machines interact with each other .	但這些機器在細胞內的力量是非常驚人的 , 它們真的是所有生命的基礎 , 因為所有這些機器彼此之間的互動 。
they pass information to each other .	它們互相傳遞訊息 。
they cause different things to happen inside the cell .	它們會造成細胞內部發生不同的事 。
and the cell will actually manufacture the parts that it needs on the fly , from information that's brought from the nucleus by molecules that read the genes .	細胞會製造出果蠅需要的部分 , 來自原子核的資訊 , 這些分子會讀取基因的基因 。
no life , from the smallest life to everybody here , would be possible without these little micromachines .	沒有生命 , 從最小的生命到這裡的每一個人 , 若沒有這些小小的微機械 。
in fact , it would really , in the absence of these machines , have made the attendance here , chris , really quite sparse .	事實上 , 在這些機器的缺席之中 , 真的會讓這台機關變得很快 , 克里斯 , 真的很恐怖 。
this is the fedex delivery guy of the cell .	這是fedex的傳送人員 。
this little guy is called the kinesin , and he pulls a sack that's full of brand new manufactured proteins to wherever it's needed in the cell whether it's to a membrane , whether it's to an organelle , whether it's to build something or repair something .	這個小傢伙叫做松果 , 他拿了一袋袋子 , 滿是全新的製造蛋白質 , 到任何細胞需要的位置 , 不管是蛋白質 , 不管是蛋白質 , 不管是蛋白質 , 不管是製造或修補某樣東西 。
and each of us has about 100 , 000 of these things running around , right now , inside each one of your 100 trillion cells .	我們每個人都有大約十萬個這些東西正在四處奔跑 , 現在 , 在你每一百兆個細胞中 。
so no matter how lazy you feel , you're not really intrinsically doing nothing .	所以 , 不論你覺得多懶惰 , 你本質上沒有做任何事 。
so what i want you to do when you go home is think about this , and think about how powerful our cells are .	所以當你回家想想 , 我希望你能做什麼 , 想想我們的細胞有多強大 。
and think about some of the things that we're learning about cellular mechanics .	想想看 , 我們學到了一些關於細胞機械的知識 。
once we figure out all that's going on and believe me , we know almost a percent of what's going on once we figure out what's going on , we're really going to be able to have a lot of control over what we do with our health , with what we do with future generations , and how long we're going to live .	一旦我們了解了這一切 , 相信我 , 我們就知道發生了什麼事 , 一旦我們了解了發生了什麼事 , 我們將會有很大的控制權 , 掌控我們對未來世代的影響 , 以及我們將會活多久 。
and hopefully we'll be able to use this to discover more truth , and more beauty .	希望我們能用它來發現更多真相 , 更美麗 。
but it's really quite amazing that these cells , these micromachines , are aware enough of what the cell needs that they do their bidding .	但這些細胞 , 這些微機械 , 非常了不起 , 足以了解細胞的需求 , 足以維持它們的支撐 。
they work together . they make the cell do what it needs to do .	它們一起工作 , 讓細胞做它需要做什麼 。
and their working together helps our bodies huge entities that they will never see function properly .	他們一起工作 , 協助我們的身體 , 讓它們永遠看不到正常的功能 。
enjoy the rest of the show . thank you .	享受剩下的節目 。 謝謝 。
becky blanton planned to live in her van for a year and see the country , but when depression set in and her freelance job ended , her camping trip turned into homelessness . in this intimate talk , she describes her experience of becoming one of america's working homeless .	貝克•布蘭頓計畫要在她的車上住一年 , 見到這個國家 , 但當憂鬱和她的自由工作結束時 , 她的營地變成了無家可歸 。 在這個親密的演講中 , 她描述了她成為美國無家可歸的經歷 。
adventure , happiness , life , personal growth , poverty , social change , society , storytelling	冒險、幸福、生活、個人成長、貧窮、社會改變、社會、說故事 , 講故事 。
becky blanton: the year i was homeless	貝琪•布蘭頓:那年 , 我是無家可歸的 。
i'm a writer and a journalist , and i'm also an insanely curious person , so in 22 years as a journalist , i've learned how to do a lot of new things .	我是作家和記者 , 我也是個好奇的人 , 在22年內 , 身為記者 , 我學了如何做很多新事 。
and three years ago , one of the things i learned how to do was to become invisible .	三年前 , 我學到的一件事情 , 就是變成隱形的 。
i became one of the working homeless .	我成為了無家可歸之家之一 。
i quit my job as a newspaper editor after my father died in february of that same year , and decided to travel .	我辭掉了我父親死於同一年二月的報紙編輯的工作 , 決定去旅行 。
his death hit me pretty hard .	他的死亡擊中了我 。
and there were a lot of things that i wanted to feel and deal with while i was doing that .	當我在做這件事時 , 我會想和處理很多事情 。
i've camped my whole life . and i decided that living in a van for a year to do this would be like one long camping trip .	我一生都在營運 , 我決定住在旅行車裡一年 , 要做這樣的事 , 就好像一個長期的營地 。
so i packed my cat , my rottweiler and my camping gear into a 1975 chevy van , and drove off into the sunset , having fully failed to realize three critical things .	所以我把我的貓、我的旋轉器和營地裝滿了1975年的清潔車 , 開車到日落 , 完全沒有意識到三件重要的事 。
one: that society equates living in a permanent structure , even a shack , with having value as a person .	第一:社會等同於一個永久的結構 , 甚至是一團糟 , 身為一個人的價值 。
two: i failed to realize how quickly the negative perceptions of other people can impact our reality , if we let it .	第二:我沒有意識到別人的負面認知 , 會如何影響我們的現實 , 如果我們放下它 。
three: i failed to realize that homelessness is an attitude , not a lifestyle .	三:我沒有意識到無家可歸是一種態度 , 而不是生活方式 。
at first , living in the van was great .	一開始 , 住在車上很棒 。
i showered in campgrounds . i ate out regularly .	我在營地表演 , 我常常吃飯 。
and i had time to relax and to grieve .	我有時間放鬆和悲慟 。
but then the anger and the depression about my father's death set in .	但接著憤怒和憂鬱 , 我父親的死亡就出現了 。
my freelance job ended . and i had to get a fulltime job to pay the bills .	我的自由工作結束了 , 我得付一份全職工作來支付帳單 。
what had been a really mild spring turned into a miserably hot summer .	一個非常溫和的春天 , 後來變成一個非常熱的夏天 。
and it became impossible to park anywhere without being very obvious that i had a cat and a dog with me , and it was really hot .	沒有任何地方的公園 , 很明顯我有一隻貓和一隻狗 , 真的很熱 。
the cat came and went through an open window in the van .	貓來了 , 穿過車子裡的窗戶 。
the doggy went into doggy day care .	小玩意兒進入了小玩意兒的日常生活 。
whenever i could , i used employee showers in office buildings and truck stops .	每當我可以 , 我都會用在辦公大樓裡的員工 , 卡車停下來 。
or i washed up in public rest rooms .	或是我在公共場所洗衣服 。
nighttime temperatures in the van rarely dropped below 80 degrees fahrenheit , making it difficult or impossible to sleep .	夜晚的溫度極少於華氏80度以下的華氏度 , 使得睡眠很難 。
food rotted in the heat .	食物在熱氣中轉動 。
ice in my ice chest melted within hours , and it was pretty miserable .	在我的冰塊中 , 幾小時內融化了 , 且它是非常悲慘的 。
i couldn't afford to find an apartment , or couldn't afford an apartment that would allow me to have the rottweiler and the cat .	我負擔不起找個公寓 , 或買不起公寓 , 讓我可以有旋轉者和貓 。
and i refused to give them up , so i stayed in the van .	我拒絕放棄他們 , 所以我待在車子裡 。
and when the heat made me too sick to walk the 50 feet to the public restroom outside my van at night , i used a bucket and a trash bag as a toilet .	當熱氣使我生病 , 走到五十英尺外的公共廁所 , 晚上我用桶和垃圾袋當廁所 。
when winter weather set in , the temperatures dropped below freezing . and they stayed there .	當冬天氣象進來時 , 溫度下降 , 停留在冰凍之下 。
and i faced a whole new set of challenges .	我面對了一系列的挑戰 。
i parked a different place every night so i would avoid being noticed and hassled by the police .	我每晚都停在一個不同的地方 , 讓我避免被警察察察覺並被警察察察察覺 。
i didn't always succeed .	我並不總是成功 。
but i felt out of control of my life .	但我感到無法掌控我的人生 。
and i don't know when or how it happened , but the speed at which i went from being a talented writer and journalist to being a homeless woman , living in a van , took my breath away .	我不知道發生了什麼事 , 但是我從一個有才華的作家和記者 , 變成一個無家可歸的女人 , 住在車子裡 , 把我的呼吸帶走 。
i hadn't changed . my i . q . hadn't dropped .	我沒有改變 。 我的智商 , 還沒有放棄 。
my talent , my integrity , my values , everything about me remained the same .	我的才華 , 我的正直、我的價值觀、我的價值觀 , 所有關於我的事都一樣 。
but i had changed somehow .	但我已經改變了 。
i spiraled deeper and deeper into a depression .	我轉向更深層、更深層的憂鬱 。
and eventually someone referred me to a homeless health clinic .	最後 , 有人幫我介紹一個無家可歸的健康診所 。
and i went . i hadn't bathed in three days .	我去了 。 我三天沒洗澡 。
i was as smelly and as depressed as anyone in line .	我和排隊中的任何人一樣緊張和沮喪 。
i just wasn't drunk or high .	我只是沒喝醉或很高 。
and when several of the homeless men realized that , including a former university professor , they said , " you aren't homeless . why are you really here ? "	當許多無家可歸的人意識到 , 包括前大學教授 , 他們說: 「 你不是無家可歸 。 你為什麼會在這裡 ? 」
other homeless people didn't see me as homeless , but i did .	其他無家可歸的人不認為我是無家可歸的 , 但我確實做到了 。
then the professor listened to my story and he said , " you have a job . you have hope .	接著 , 教授傾聽我的故事 , 他說: 「 你有工作 , 你有希望 。
the real homeless don't have hope . "	真正的無家可歸沒有希望 。 」
a reaction to the medication the clinic gave me for my depression left me suicidal . and i remember thinking , " if i killed myself , no one would notice . "	治療診所給了我憂鬱症的反應 。 我記得心想: 「 如果我殺了自己 , 沒有人會注意到 。 」
a friend told me , shortly after that , that she had heard that tim russert , a nationally renowned journalist , had been talking about me on national t . v .	不久之後 , 一位朋友告訴我 , 她聽說timrusert , 一個全國知名的記者 , 一直在說我在國家t.v 。
an essay i'd written about my father , the year before he died , was in tim's new book .	我寫了一篇關於我父親的論文 , 在他死前的那一年 , 他在提姆的新書中 。
and he was doing the talk show circuit . and he was talking about my writing .	他在做這場演說的電路 。 他在談論我的寫作 。
and when i realized that tim russert , former moderator of " meet the press , " was talking about my writing , while i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , i started laughing .	當我意識到 , timrussert , 《會議》的前任者 , 正在談我的寫作 , 當我住在華爾瑪的停車場 , 我開始笑 。
i started laughing because it got to the point where , was i a writer , or was i a homeless woman ?	我開始笑 , 因為它到了那個地方 , 我是一位作家 , 還是一個無家可歸的女人 ?
so i went in the bookstore . and i found tim's book .	所以我去了書店 , 我找到了tim的書 。
and i stood there . and i reread my essay .	我站在那裡 , 重返我的論文 。
because i was a writer .	因為我是個作家 。
i was a writer .	我是個作家 。
shortly after that i moved back to tennessee .	在那之後不久 , 我搬回田納西 。
i alternated between living in a van and couch surfing with friends .	我改變了生活在車廂和沙發衝浪的朋友之間 。
and i started writing again .	我又開始寫作 。
by the summer of the following year i was a working journalist .	接下來的一年夏天 , 我是一位職業記者 。
i was winning awards . i was living in my own apartment .	我贏得獎項 。 我住在我自己的公寓裡 。
i was no longer homeless .	我不再無家可歸 。
and i was no longer invisible .	我不再是隱形的 。
thousands of people work full and parttime jobs , and live in their cars .	數以千計的人全職工作 , 住在他們的車子裡 。
but society continues to stigmatize and criminalize living in your vehicle or on the streets .	但社會持續將生活在你的車上或在街道上被汙名化和犯罪化 。
so the homeless , the working homeless , primarily remain invisible .	所以無家可歸 , 工作無家可歸 , 主要還是隱形的 。
but if you ever meet one , engage them , encourage them , and offer them hope .	但如果你遇到一個人 , 加入他們 , 鼓勵他們 , 並提供他們希望 。
the human spirit can overcome anything if it has hope .	如果有希望的話 , 人類的精神可以克服任何事 。
and i'm not here to be the poster girl for the homeless .	我不是來這裡是無家可歸的海報 。
i'm not here to encourage you to give money to the next panhandler you meet .	我不是要鼓勵你們捐錢給下一個乞討者 。
but i am here to tell you that , based on my experience , people are not where they live , where they sleep , or what their life situation is at any given time .	但我來這裡要告訴各位 , 根據我的經驗 , 人們不是他們住的地方 , 他們睡在哪裡 , 或他們的人生狀況在任何時刻 。
three years ago i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , and today i'm speaking at ted .	三年前 , 我住在一個沃爾瑪停車場 , 今天我在ted演講 。
hope always , always finds a way . thank you .	希望總是找到一個方法 。 謝謝 。
at tedxchange , thailand's " mr . condom , " mechai viravaidya , walks us through the country's bold plan to raise its standard of living , starting in the 1970s . first step: population control . and that means a lot of frank , funny and very effective talk about condoms .	在tedxchange , 泰國的《保險套》 , mechaiviravaida , 走過我們國家的大膽計劃 , 從1970年代開始 , 第一步:人口控制 。 這意味著很多法蘭克、有趣的和非常有效的討論保險套 。
culture , global issues , health , population , science	文化、全球議題、健康、人口、科學、科學 。
mechai viravaidya: how mr . condom made thailand a better place	mechaiviraida:保險套如何讓泰國成為更好的地方 。
now , when i was a young man 40 years ago , the country was very , very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty .	四十年前 , 當我還是個年輕人時 , 這個國家非常貧窮 , 有許多人生活在貧困中 。
we decided to do something about it , but we didn't begin with a welfare program or a poverty reduction program .	我們決定要做點什麼 , 但我們不是從福利計畫開始 , 或是一個貧窮的減少計畫開始 。
but we began with a familyplanning program , following a very successful maternal child health activity , sets of activities .	但我們從一個家庭禁止計畫開始 , 遵循一個非常成功的孕產兒健康活動 , 一系列活動 。
so basically , no one would accept family planning if their children didn't survive .	基本上 , 沒有人會接受家庭規劃 , 如果他們的孩子沒有存活下來 。
so the first step: get to the children , get to the mothers , and then follow up with family planning .	所以 , 第一步:去看孩子 , 去看媽媽 , 然後跟著家庭計畫 。
not just child mortality alone , you need also family planning .	不只是兒童死亡率 , 你也需要家庭規劃 。
now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it .	現在 , 讓我帶各位回到為什麼我們需要這樣做 。
in my country , that was the case in 1974 .	在我的國家 , 那是1974年 。
seven children per family tremendous growth at 3 . 3 percent .	每個家庭的七個孩子成長率是3.3% 。
there was just no future .	沒有任何未來 。
we needed to reduce the population growth rate .	我們需要減少人口成長率 。
so we said , " let's do it . "	我們說: 「 我們來做吧 。 」
the women said , " we agree . we'll use pills , but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills , " and we had very , very few doctors .	女人說: 「 我們同意 , 我們會用藥丸 , 但我們需要醫生來開藥丸 。 」 我們有非常少的醫生 。
we didn't take no as an answer ; we took no as a question .	我們沒有把答案當成一個答案 , 我們把不當作一個問題 。
we went to the nurses and the midwives , who were also women , and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill .	我們去了護士和助產士 , 同時也是女性 , 在解釋如何使用藥丸時 , 做了一個很棒的工作 。
that was wonderful , but it covered only 20 percent of the country .	那真是太棒了 , 但它只佔全國百分之二十 。
what do we do for the other 80 percent leave them alone and say , " well , they're not medical personnel . "	我們為其他80%的人做些什麼 ? 說: 「 嗯 , 他們不是醫療人員 。 」
no , we decided to do a bit more .	不 , 我們決定再多做一點 。
so we went to the ordinary people that you saw .	所以 , 我們去了你所看到的一般人 。
actually , below that yellow sign i wish they hadn't wiped that , because there was " cocacola " there .	事實上 , 在那黃色的標誌之下 , 我希望他們還沒聽過 , 因為那裡有 「 可口可樂 」 。
we were so much bigger than cocacola in those days .	當時我們比可口可樂更大 。
and no difference , the people they chose were the people we chose .	沒有差別 , 他們選的人就是我們選的人 。
they were wellknown in the community , they knew that customers were always right , and they were terrific , and they practiced their family planning themselves .	他們在社區中很知名 , 他們知道客戶一直是對的 , 他們很厲害 , 他們練習他們的家庭規劃他們自己 。
so they could supply pills and condoms throughout the country , in every village of the country .	所以他們可以在全國各地提供藥丸和保險套 。
so there we are . we went to the people who were seen as the cause of the problem to be the solution .	所以 , 我們就在那裡 。 我們去找那些被視為問題的成因 , 來解決方案 。
wherever there were people and you can see boats with the women , selling things here's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives wherever you find people , you'll find contraceptives in thailand .	不論在哪裡有人 , 你都能看見那些婦女 , 賣東西 , 這是漂浮的市場賣香蕉和螃蟹 , 還有避孕裝置 , 只要你在泰國找到人 , 你會在泰國找到避孕裝置 。
and then we decided , why not get to religion because in the philippines , the catholic church was pretty strong , and thai people were buddhist .	然後我們決定 , 為何不去宗教 , 因為在菲律賓 , 天主教堂很強壯 , 泰國人是佛教徒 。
we went to them and they said , " look , could you help us ? "	我們去找他們 , 他們說: 「 看 , 你能幫我們嗎 ? 」
i'm there the one in blue , not the yellow holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to sprinkle holy water on pills and condoms for the sanctity of the family .	我在藍色的那邊 , 不是黃色的拿著一碗聖水給僧人 , 用藥丸和保險套來吐水 。
and this picture was sent throughout the country .	這張照片是在全國各地寄來的 。
so some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves .	有些村莊的僧侶也在做同樣的事 。
and the women were saying , " no wonder we have no sideeffects .	女人說: 「 難怪我們沒有副作用 。
it's been blessed . "	它被祝福了 。 」
that was their perception .	那是他們的感知 。
and then we went to teachers .	然後我們去了老師 。
you need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place .	你需要每個人去試著提供任何讓人類成為一個更好的地方 。
so we went to the teachers .	所以我們去了老師們 。
over a quarter of a million were taught about family planning with a new alphabet a , b for birth , c for condom , i for iud , v for vasectomy .	超過四分之一的家庭計劃被教導要用新的字母a、b , 為了生育 , 保險套 , 我為iud , 維護陰道學 。
and then we had a snakes and ladders game , where you throw dice .	然後我們有了蛇和梯子遊戲 , 你扔掉的方向 。
if you land on anything profamily planning , you move ahead .	如果你在任何可行的規劃上登陸 , 你就向前移動 。
like , " mother takes the pill every night .	例如: 「 媽媽每天晚上都會吃藥 。
very good , mother . move ahead .	非常好 , 媽媽 , 繼續前進 。
uncle buys a condom . very good , uncle . move ahead .	叔叔買保險套 , 非常好 , 叔叔 , 前往 。
uncle gets drunk , doesn't use condom . come back , start again . "	叔叔喝酒 , 不用保險套 , 再回來吧 。 」
again , education , class entertainment .	再一次 , 教育 , 課堂娛樂 。
and the kids were doing it in school too .	孩子也在學校做這件事 。
we had relay races with condoms , we had children's condomblowing championship .	我們和保險套有相對的競爭 , 我們有孩子的保險套競賽 。
and before long , the condom was know as the girl's best friend .	不久之前 , 保險套被稱為女孩最好的朋友 。
in thailand , for poor people , diamonds don't make it so the condom is the girl's best friend .	在泰國 , 對貧窮的人來說 , 鑽石不會這樣做 , 保險套就是女孩最好的朋友 。
we introduced our first microcredit program in 1975 , and the women who organized it said , " we only want to lend to women who practice family planning .	我們在1975年推出了我們的第一個微型信息計畫 , 那些組織的女性說: 「 我們只想借給做家庭規劃的婦女 。
if you're pregnant , take care of your pregnancy .	如果你懷孕了 , 照顧你的懷孕 。
if you're not pregnant , you can take a loan out from us . "	如果你不懷孕 , 你可以從我們身上拿出一支貸款 。 」
and that was run by them .	這是他們所經營的 。
and after 35/36 years , it's still going on .	在35/36年之後 , 它仍然持續著 。
it's a part of the village development bank ; it's not a real bank , but it's a fund microcredit .	它是村落發展銀行的一部分 ; 它不是真正的銀行 , 但它是資金小額貸款 。
and we didn't need a big organization to run it it was run by the villagers themselves .	我們不需要一個大型組織來經營它 , 由村民自己運作 。
and you probably hardly see a thai man there , it's always women , women , women , women .	你可能看不見一個泰國男子 , 總是女人、女人、女人、女人 。
and then we thought we'd help america , because america's been helping everyone , whether they want help or not .	然後我們認為我們會幫助美國 , 因為美國一直在幫助每個人 , 不管他們是否想要幫忙 。
and this is on the fourth of july .	這是7月4日 。
we decided to provide vasectomy to all men , but in particular , american men to the front of the queue , right up to the ambassador's residence during his [unclear] .	我們決定為所有男人提供隱形體 , 但尤其是 , 美國男性站在隊伍的前面 , 位於阿巴斯德的住所 。
and the hotel gave us the ballroom for it very appropriate room .	旅館給了我們這間球場 , 非常適當的房間 。
and since it was near lunch time , they said , " all right , we'll give you some lunch .	自從很接近午餐時間 , 他們說: 「 好 , 我們會給你一些午餐 。
of course , it must be american cola .	當然 , 這一定是美國的可樂 。
you get two brands , coke and pepsi .	你有兩個品牌 , 可口可樂和百事可樂 。
and then the food is either hamburger or hotdog . "	然後食物是漢堡或熱狗 。 」
and i thought a hotdog will be more symbolic .	我覺得熱狗會更符合象徵性 。
and here is this , then , young man called willy bohm who worked for the usaid .	這裡是這個 , 接著 , 名叫willybohm的年輕人 , 為美國援助工作 。
obviously , he's had his vasectomy because his hotdog is half eaten , and he was very happy .	很顯然 , 他的陰道是吃了一半的熱狗 , 他很高興 。
it made a lot of news in america , and it angered some people also .	它在美國做了很多新聞 , 同時也憤怒了一些人 。
i said , " don't worry . come over and i'll do the whole lot of you . "	我說: 「 別擔心 , 過來 , 我會做你們很多人 。 」
in all this thing , from seven children to 1 . 5 children , population growth rate of 3 . 3 to 0 . 5 .	在這一切中 , 從七個孩子到1.5個孩子 , 人口成長率是3.3.5 。
you could call it the cocacola approach if you like it was exactly the same thing .	你可以稱它為可口可樂的方法 , 如果你喜歡它是完全一樣的 。
i'm not sure whether cocacola followed us , or we followed cocacola , but we're good friends .	我不確定可口可樂是否跟著我們 , 或我們跟著可口可樂 , 但我們是好朋友 。
and so that's the case of everyone joining in .	這就是所有人加入的案例 。
we didn't have a strong government . we didn't have lots of doctors .	我們沒有強大的政府 , 我們沒有很多醫生 。
but it's everybody's job who can change attitude and behavior .	但每個人都能改變態度和行為 。
then aids came along and hit thailand , and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight aids .	接著愛滋病出現 , 撞到泰國 , 我們得要停止做很多好事來對抗愛滋病 。
but unfortunately , the government was in denial , denial , denial .	但不幸的是 , 政府在否認、否認、否認 。
so our work wasn't affected .	所以 , 我們的作品並沒有受到影響 。
so i thought , " well , if you can't go to the government , go to the military . "	所以我想: 「 嗯 , 如果你不能去政府 , 去軍隊 。 」
so i went to the military and asked to borrow 300 radio stations .	所以我去了軍方 , 要求借300個電台 。
they have more than the government , and they've got more guns than the government .	他們比政府還多 , 他們的槍枝比政府還多 。
so i asked them , could they help us in our fight against hiv .	所以我問他們 , 他們能否協助我們對抗愛滋病 。
and after i gave them statistics , they said , " yes . okay . you can use all the radio stations , television stations . "	在我給他們統計數據之後 , 他們說: 「 沒錯 , 你可以使用所有的無線電站 , 電視台 。 」
and that's when we went onto the airwaves .	而那就是我們上了飛機的時候 。
and then we got a new prime minister soon after that .	之後我們就得到了一個新的總理 。
and he said , " mechai , could you come and join ? "	他說: 「 米奇 , 你能來加入嗎 ? 」
he asked me in because he liked my wife a lot .	他問我 , 因為他很喜歡我的妻子 。
so i said , " okay . "	我說: 「 好吧 。 」
he became the chairman of the national aids committee and increased the budget fiftyfold .	他成為了國家愛滋病委員會的主席 , 增加了五十倍 。
every ministry , even judges , had to be involved in aids education everyone and we said the public , institutions , religious institutions , schools everyone was involved .	每一位部長 , 甚至法官 , 都必須參與愛滋病教育 , 我們說公共、機構、宗教機構 , 所有人都參與 。
and here , every media person had to be trained for hiv .	在這裡 , 每一位媒體人都得接受愛滋病的訓練 。
and we gave every station half a minute extra for advertising to earn more money .	我們給了每一站半分鐘額外的廣告 , 來賺更多錢 。
so they were happy with that .	他們對此感到高興 。
and then aids education in all schools , starting from university .	所有學校的愛滋病教育 , 從大學開始 。
and these are high school kids teaching high school kids .	這些是高中生教導高中生的孩子 。
and the best teachers were the girls , not the boys , and they were terrific .	最好的老師是女孩 , 不是男孩 , 她們是很棒的 。
and these girls who go around teaching about safe sex and hiv were known as mother theresa .	而這些女孩們圍繞著教導安全性愛和愛滋病感染的女孩 , 被稱為 「 媽媽 」 。
and then we went down one more step .	然後我們再走下一步 。
these are primary school kids third , fourth grade going to every household in the village , every household in the whole of thailand , giving aids information and a condom to every household , given by these young kids .	這些是小學三、四年級的孩子 , 在村子裡的每個家庭 , 每個家庭都有愛滋病資訊和保險套 , 由這些孩子提供 。
and no parents objected , because we were trying to save lives , and this was a lifesaver .	沒有父母反對 , 因為我們試圖拯救生命 , 這是個救命 。
and we said , " everyone needs to be involved . "	我們說: 「 每個人都需要參與 。 」
so you have the companies also realizing that sick staff don't work , and dead customers don't buy .	所以 , 公司也發現 , 生病人員不行得通 , 死客也不買 。
so they all trained .	所以他們都受過訓練 。
and then we have this captain condom , with his harvard mba , going to schools and night spots .	然後我們有了這個船長 , 帶著他的哈佛mba , 去學校和夜晚的地方 。
and they loved him . you need a symbol of something .	他們很愛他 , 你需要一個東西的象徵
in every country , every program , you need a symbol , and this is probably the best thing he's ever done with his mba .	在每個國家 , 每個計畫 , 你都需要一個象徵 , 這可能是他做過最好的一件事 。
and then we gave condoms out everywhere on the streets everywhere , everywhere .	然後我們把保險套送到街上 , 到處都有 , 到處都有 。
in taxis , you get condoms .	在計程車中 , 你得到保險套 。
and also , in traffic , the policemen give you condoms our " cops and rubbers " programs .	此外 , 在交通中 , 警察給你保險套 , 我們的 「 警察 」 計畫 。
so , can you imagine new york policemen giving out condoms ?	所以 , 你能想像紐約警察給保險套嗎 ?
of course i can . and they'd enjoy it immensely ; i see them standing around right now , everywhere .	當然我可以 。 他們很享受它 。 我現在看到他們站在旁邊 , 無所不在 。
imagine if they had condoms , giving out to all sorts of people .	想像一下 , 如果他們有保險套 , 給予各種各樣的人 。
and then , new change , we had hair bands , clothing and the condom for your mobile phone during the rainy season .	接著 , 新的改變 , 我們有毛髮、衣服和保險套 , 在雨季時 , 你的手機 。
and these were the condoms that we introduced .	這些是我們介紹的保險套 。
one says , " weapon of mass protection . "	有人說: 「 大規模保護的武器 。 」
we found you know somebody here was searching for the weapon of mass destruction , but we have found the weapon of mass protection: the condom .	我們發現這裡有人在尋找大規模毀滅的武器 , 但我們找到了大規模保護的武器:保險套 。
and then it says here , with the american flag , " don't leave home without it . "	上面寫著 , 美國國旗說: 「 別再離開家了 。 」
but i have some to give out afterward .	但我有一些後續的意見 。
but let me warn you , these are thaisized , so be very careful .	但讓我先警告你 , 這些是泰國化的 , 非常小心 。
and so you can see that condoms can do so many things .	你可以看到保險套可以做很多事 。
look at this i gave this to al gore and to bill senior also .	看看這張 , 我給了高爾和比爾•高爾 。
stop global warming ; use condoms .	阻止全球暖化 ; 使用保險套 。
and then this is the picture i mentioned to you the weapon of mass protection .	這張照片是我提到的 , 是大規模保護的武器 。
and let the next olympics save some lives .	下次奧林匹克救了一些生命 。
why just run around ?	為什麼只是跑來跑去 ?
and then finally , in thailand we're buddhist , we don't have a god , so instead , we say , " in rubber we trust . "	最後 , 在泰國 , 我們是佛教徒 , 我們沒有上帝 , 所以我們反而說: 「 我們相信橡膠 。 」
so you can see that we added everything to our endeavor to make life better for the people .	所以你可以看到 , 我們把所有東西加到我們的努力中 , 以讓人們更好地活下去 。
we had condoms in all the refrigerators in the hotels and the schools , because alcohol impairs judgment .	我們在旅館和學校裡都有保險套 , 因為酒精的判斷 。
and then what happened ?	然後發生了什麼事 ?
after all this time , everybody joined in .	在這段時間之後 , 大家都加入了 。
according to the u . n . , new cases of hiv declined by 90 percent , and according to the world bank , 7 . 7 million lives were saved .	根據聯合國 , 愛滋病的新案例減少了百分之九十 , 根據世界銀行 , 拯救了七百七十七十萬條生命 。
otherwise there wouldn't be many thais walking around today .	否則今天不會有太多泰國到處走 。
so it just showed you , you could do something about it .	所以它給你看 , 你可以做點什麼 。
90 percent of the funding came from thailand .	90%的資金來自泰國 。
there was political commitment , some financial commitment , and everybody joined in the fight .	有政治承諾 , 有些財務承諾 , 每個人都加入了戰鬥 。
so just don't leave it to the specialists and doctors and nurses .	所以 , 不要把它留給專家、醫生和護士 。
we all need to help .	我們都需要幫助 。
and then we decided to help people out of poverty , now that we got aids somewhat out of the way this time , not with government alone , but in cooperation with the business community .	接著 , 我們決定要幫助人們脫離貧困 , 現在我們得到了愛滋病 , 不是只有政府 , 而是和商業社群合作 。
because poor people are business people who lack business skills and access to credit .	因為窮人是商人 , 他們缺乏商業技能和取得信用 。
those are the things to be provided by the business community .	這些是企業界所提供的 。
we're trying to turn them into barefoot entrepreneurs , little business people .	我們試著把他們變成赤腳企業家 , 小企業家 。
the only way out of poverty is through business enterprise .	唯一脫離貧窮的方法就是透過企業 。
so , that was done .	所以 , 完成了 。
the money goes from the company into the village via treeplanting .	貨幣從公司到村落的村莊 , 再來是樹木 ,
it's not a free gift .	這不是免費的禮物 。
they plant the trees , and the money goes into their microcredit fund , which we call the village development bank .	他們種植樹木 , 金錢進到他們的微型基金 , 我們稱之為村落發展銀行 。
everybody joins in , and they feel they own the bank , because they have brought the money in .	每個人都加入 , 他們覺得自己擁有銀行 , 因為他們把錢帶進來 。
and before you can borrow the money , you need to be trained .	在你借錢之前 , 你得要被訓練 。
and we believe if you want to help the poor , those who are living in poverty , access to credit must be a human right .	我們相信如果你想要幫助窮人 , 那些生活在貧困中的人 , 取得信用信用必須是人權 。
access to credit must be a human right .	若要取得信用 , 就必須要是人權 。
otherwise they'll never get out of poverty .	否則他們永遠不會脫離貧窮 。
and then before getting a loan , you must be trained .	在取得貸款之前 , 你必須要被訓練 。
here's what we call a " barefoot mba , " teaching people how to do business so that , when they borrow money , they'll succeed with the business .	我們稱之為 「 赤腳mba 」 , 教導人們如何做生意 , 當他們借錢時 , 他們就會成功 。
these are some of the businesses: mushrooms , crabs , vegetables , trees , fruits , and this is very interesting nike ice cream and nike biscuits ; this is a village sponsored by nike .	這些是一些生意:蘑菇、螃蟹、蔬菜、樹木、水果 , 這是非常有趣的冰淇淋和nike餅乾的村落 , 這是nike的村落贊助 。
they said , " they should stop making shoes and clothes .	他們說: 「 他們應該停止製造鞋子和衣服 。
make these better , because we can afford them . "	讓這些更好 , 因為我們能負擔得起 。 」
and then we have silk , thai silk .	然後我們有絲 , 泰國絲 。
now we're making scottish tartans , as you can see on the left , to sell to all people of scottish ancestors .	現在我們正在製造蘇格蘭塔人 , 如你在左邊看到的 , 賣給蘇格蘭祖先的所有人 。
so anyone sitting in and watching tv , get in touch with me .	所以 , 任何人坐著看電視 , 跟我接觸 。
and then this is our answer to starbucks in thailand " coffee and condoms . "	這是我們在泰國的星巴克 , 「 咖啡和保險套 」 的答案 。
see , starbucks you awake , we keep you awake and alive .	看 , 星巴克你醒來 , 我們保持醒來和活著 。
can you imagine , at every starbucks that you can also get condoms ?	你能想像 , 在每一顆星巴克都能得到保險套嗎 ?
you can order your condoms with your with your cappuccino .	你可以把你的保險套用你的卡卡普西諾來定位 。
and then now , finally in education , we want to change the school as being underutilized into a place where it's a lifelong learning center for everyone .	現在 , 終於在教育中 , 我們想要改變學校 , 把學校當作被剝削到一個地方 , 讓每個人成為終身學習中心 。
we call this our schoolbased integrated rural development .	我們稱之為 「 學校基於農村發展 」 。
and it's a center , a focal point for economic and social development .	這是個中心 , 一個對經濟和社會發展的對立點 。
redo the school , make it serve the community needs .	重新設計學校 , 讓社區需要 。
and here is a bamboo building all of them are bamboo .	這裡有一棟竹子建築 , 全部都是竹子 。
this is a geodesic dome made of bamboo .	這是竹子的地理圓頂 。
and i'm sure buckminster fuller would be very , very proud to see a bamboo geodesic dome .	我相信巴克敏斯特•富勒會非常驕傲地看到一個竹子的圓頂 。
and we use vegetables around the school ground , so they raise their own vegetables .	我們在學校各地使用蔬菜 , 所以他們會自行提高蔬菜 。
and then , finally , i firmly believe , if we want the mdgs to work the millennium development goals we need to add family planning to it .	最後 , 我堅信如果我們希望mdgs能在千禧年發展目標上 , 我們需要把家庭計畫加入 。
of course , child mortality first and then family planning everyone needs family planning service it's underutilized .	當然 , 兒童死亡率先是家庭規劃每個人都需要家庭規劃的服務 , 都被忽略了 。
so we have now found the weapon of mass protection .	我們現在找到了大規模保護的武器 。
and we also ask the next olympics to be involved in saving lives .	我們也要求下次奧林匹克參與拯救生命 。
and then , finally , that is our network .	最後 , 這就是我們的網絡 。
and these are our thai tulips .	這些是我們的泰國鬱金香 。
thank you very much indeed .	非常謝謝你 。
your smartphone may feel like a friend but a true friend would give you a smile once in a while . at ted2013 , keller rinaudo demos romo , the smartphonepowered mini robot who can motor along with you on a walk , slide you a cup of coffee across the table , and react to you with programmable expressions .	你的智慧手機可能像朋友一樣 , 但真正的朋友會給你一陣微笑 。 在ted2013年 , 凱勒•里納多•狄摩斯 , 智慧型手機機器人可以跟你一起走路 , 把你一杯咖啡放在桌上 , 並且對你做出可程式的表情 。
keller rinaudo: a mini robot powered by your phone	kellerrinaudo:一台小型機器人 , 由你的手機發電 。
so just by a show of hands , how many of you all have a robot at home ?	請舉手 , 你們當中有多少人在家裡有機器人 ?
not very many of you .	不是你們很多人 。
okay . and actually of those hands , if you don't include roomba how many of you have a robot at home ?	好的 。 實際上 , 那些手 , 如果你不介紹室巴 , 你們當中有多少人在家裡有機器人 ?
that's the problem that we're trying to solve at romotive that i and the other 20 nerds at romotive are obsessed with solving .	這是我們在romotive解決的問題 , 我和其他20位romotive的怪胎 , 都對解決這個問題很著迷 。
so we really want to build a robot that anyone can use , whether you're eight or 80 .	所以 , 我們真的想要建立一個機器人 , 任何人都可以使用 , 不論你是八到八十歲 。
and as it turns out , that's a really hard problem , because you have to build a small , portable robot that's not only really affordable , but it has to be something that people actually want to take home and have around their kids .	結果發現 , 這真的是個很困難的問題 , 因為你必須建造一個小型、可攜式的機器人 , 不但能負擔得起 , 但它必須是人們真的想要回家 , 讓孩子身邊 。
this robot can't be creepy or uncanny .	這種機器人無法輕視或忽視 。
he should be friendly and cute .	他應該是友善且可愛的 。
romo's a robot that uses a device you already know and love your iphone as his brain .	romo是一個你已經知道且愛你的iphone的機器人 。
and by leveraging the power of the iphone's processor , we can create a robot that is wifi enabled and computer visioncapable for 150 bucks , which is about one percent of what these kinds of robots have cost in the past .	透過iphone處理器的力量 , 我們就能創造一個機器人 , 它能讓wi-fi和電腦視覺可用150美元 , 也就是過去這類機器人的成本 。
when romo wakes up , he's in creature mode .	當romo醒來時 , 他正處於生物模式 。
so he's actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face .	所以他實際上是用攝影機在裝置上來追蹤我的臉 。
if i duck down , he'll follow me .	如果我死了 , 他會跟著我 。
he's wary , so he'll keep his eyes on me .	他很害怕 , 所以他會把眼睛留在我身上 。
if i come over here , he'll turn to follow me .	如果我來這裡 , 他就會跟著我 。
if i come over here he's smart .	如果我來這裡 , 他很聰明 。
and if i get too close to him , he gets scared just like any other creature .	如果我太靠近他 , 他就會害怕任何其他生物 。
so in a lot of ways , romo is like a pet that has a mind of his own .	所以 , 在很多方面 , romo就像一隻寵物 , 他有自己的思想 。
thanks , little guy .	謝謝 , 小傢伙 。
and if i want to explore the world uhoh , romo's tired if i want to explore the world with romo , i can actually connect him from any other ios device .	如果我想要探索這個世界 , romo已經累壞了 , 如果我想要和romo一起探索這個世界 , 我真的可以將他與任何ios設備連結起來 。
so here's the ipad .	這是ipad 。
and romo will actually stream video to this device .	而romo實際上會把視頻傳給這個裝置 。
so i can see everything that romo sees , and i get a robot'seyeview of the world .	我可以看見romo看到的所有東西 , 我得到了機器人的世界觀 。
now this is a free app on the app store , so if any of you guys had this app on your phones , we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together .	這是個免費的應用程式 , 如果你們有人在你的手機上有這個應用程式 , 我們現在可以分享機器人的控制權 , 一起玩遊戲 。
so i'll show you really quickly , romo actually he's streaming video , so you can see me and the entire ted audience .	我很快地展示給你們看 , romo他正在播放影片 , 你可以看到我和ted的觀眾 。
if i get in front of romo here .	如果我站在這裡 。
and if i want to control him , i can just drive .	如果我想要控制他 , 我可以開車 。
so i can drive him around , and i can take pictures of you .	所以 , 我可以隨身開車 , 我可以拍攝你們的照片 。
i've always wanted a picture of a 1 , 500person ted audience .	我一直都想要一張1500名ted觀眾的照片 。
so i'll snap a picture .	所以 , 我來拍一張照片 。
and in the same way that you scroll through content on an ipad , i can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device .	就如同你在ipad上穿過的內容一樣 , 我可以在裝置上調整相機的角度 。
so there are all of you through romo's eyes .	所以在座的各位都透過romo的眼睛 。
and finally , because romo is an extension of me , i can express myself through his emotions .	最後 , 因為romo是我的延伸 , 我可以透過他的情緒來表達自己 。
so i can go in and i can say let's make romo excited .	所以 , 我可以進去 , 我可以說 , 讓我們讓romo感到興奮 。
but the most important thing about romo is that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive .	但最重要的是 , 我們想要創造一個完全直覺的東西 。
you do not have to teach someone how to drive romo .	你不需要教別人如何駕駛romo 。
in fact , who would like to drive a robot ?	事實上 , 誰想驅動機器人 ?
thank you , scott .	謝謝你 , 史考特 。
and even cooler , you actually don't have to be in the same geographic location as the robot to control him .	更酷的是 , 你不需要在同一個地理位置上 , 來控制他 。
so he actually streams twoway audio and video between any two smart devices .	所以他實際上在兩台智慧型裝置之間偷走了雙向和影片 。
so you can log in through the browser , and it's kind of like skype on wheels .	你可以在瀏覽器上登入 , 有點像是輪子的skype 。
so we were talking before about telepresence , and this is a really cool example .	所以 , 我們先來談談電信 , 這是個很酷的例子 。
you can imagine an eightyearold girl , for example , who has an iphone , and her mom buys her a robot .	你可以想像一個八歲的女孩 , 舉例來說 , 她有iphone , 她媽媽買了一台機器人 。
that girl can take her iphone , put it on the robot , send an email to grandma , who lives on the other side of the country .	那個女孩可以拿她的iphone , 把它放在機器人上 , 把電子郵件寄給祖母 , 送到全國的另一端 。
grandma can log into that robot and play hideandgoseek with her granddaughter for fifteen minutes every single night , when otherwise she might only be able to get to see her granddaughter once or twice a year .	奶奶可以登入那個機器人 , 和她的孫女一起玩躲藏 , 每晚十五分鐘 , 否則她只能看見她的孫女 , 或一年兩倍 。
so those are a couple of the really cool things that romo can do today .	所以這些是romo今天能做到的一些很酷的事 。
but i just want to finish by talking about something that we're working on in the future .	但我只想談談我們未來正在努力的事物 。
this is actually something that one of our engineers , dom , built in a weekend .	這其實是我們其中一個工程師在週末建造的 。
it's built on top of a google open framework called blockly .	它是用google的開放框架建立在一個叫做 「 街區 」 的google框架上 。
this allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic code and create any behavior for this robot you want .	這樣就可以讓你拖著 , 把這些複雜的密碼堆積起來 , 為你所想要的機器人創造出任何行為 。
you do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for romo .	你不需要知道如何編寫程式來為romo創造一個行為 。
and you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser , which is what you see romo doing on the left .	你實際上可以模擬瀏覽器中的行為 , 左邊是romo在做的事 。
and then if you have something you like , you can download it onto your robot and execute it in real life , run the program in real life .	如果你有你喜歡的東西 , 你可以把它下載到你的機器人上 , 在真實生活中執行 , 執行這個程式 。
and then if you have something you're proud of , you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world .	如果你有你感到驕傲的 , 你可以和世界上所有擁有機器人的人分享 。
so all of these wifi–enabled robots actually learn from each other .	所有這些wi-fi的機器人 , 其實是從彼此身上學到的 。
the reason we're so focused on building robots that everyone can train is that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal .	我們之所以專注在建立能訓練的機器人上 , 是因為我們認為 , 個人機械人最有說服力的案例是個人的 。
they change from person to person .	他們改變了人和人 。
so we think that if you're going to have a robot in your home , that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination .	所以 , 我們認為如果你要在你的家中有一個機器人 , 機器人應該要成為你自己的想像力的展現 。
so i wish that i could tell you what the future of personal robotics looks like .	我希望我能告訴你個人機器人的未來是什麼樣子 。
to be honest , i have no idea .	老實說 , 我不知道 。
but what we do know is that it isn't 10 years or 10 billion dollars or a large humanoid robot away .	但我們確實知道 , 不是十年或一百億美金 , 或一大型人形機器人 。
the future of personal robotics is happening today , and it's going to depend on small , agile robots like romo and the creativity of people like yourselves .	個人機器人的未來正在發生 , 它將取決於小型、敏捷的機器人 , 例如romo , 以及像你這樣的人的創造力 。
so we can't wait to get you all robots , and we can't wait to see what you build .	所以 , 我們不能等待你全部的機器人 , 我們等不及要看你所建造的 。
author and activist isabel allende discusses women , creativity , the definition of feminism and , of course , passion in this talk .	作者和活躍主義者是阿拉伯女性 , 創造力 , 女性主義的定義 , 當然 , 在這場演說中 , 熱情是如此 。
entertainment , global issues , love , parenting , storytelling , women , world cultures	娛樂、全球議題、愛、養育、說故事、女性、世界文化、文化、世界文化、文化 。
isabel allende tells tales of passion	伊莎貝爾•艾倫說過熱情的故事 。
thank you so much . it's really scary to be here among the smartest of the smart .	非常謝謝你 。 非常可怕 , 非常可怕 , 非常聰明 。
i'm here to tell you a few tales of passion .	我來這裡是要告訴各位一些熱情的故事 。
there's a jewish saying that i love .	有一個猶太人說我喜歡 。
what is truer than truth ? answer: the story .	什麼是真相 ? 答案是:故事 。
i'm a storyteller . i want to convey something that is truer than truth about our common humanity .	我是個說故事的人 。 我想傳達出比我們共同的人道真相更真實的東西 。
all stories interest me , and some haunt me until i end up writing them .	所有故事都對我感興趣 , 直到我終於寫下它們 。
certain themes keep coming up: justice , loyalty , violence , death , political and social issues , freedom .	有些主題不斷出現:正義、忠誠、暴力、死亡、政治和社會議題、自由 。
i'm aware of the mystery around us , so i write about coincidences , premonitions , emotions , dreams , the power of nature , magic .	我知道我們周圍的謎團 , 所以我寫下巧合、預演、情緒、夢想、大自然的力量、魔法 。
in the last 20 years i have published a few books , but i have lived in anonymity until february of 2006 , when i carried the olympic flag in the winter olympics in italy .	在過去的20年裡 , 我出版了幾本書 , 但我住在2006年2月 , 直到我在義大利的奧林匹克國旗 。
that made me a celebrity . now people recognize me in macy's , and my grandchildren think that i'm cool .	這讓我成為了名人 。 現在人們認得我是macy的 , 而我的孫子認為我很酷 。
allow me to tell you about my four minutes of fame .	容我告訴你我四分鐘的名氣 。
one of the organizers of the olympic ceremony , of the opening ceremony , called me and said that i had been selected to be one of the flagbearers .	奧林匹克儀式的組織者 , 打開儀式 , 打電話給我 , 說我被選為旗幟的一員 。
i replied that surely this was a case of mistaken identity because i'm as far as you can get from being an athlete .	我回答說 , 這肯定是錯誤的身分認同的案例 , 因為我可以從運動員身上得到的 。
actually , i wasn't even sure that i could go around the stadium without a walker .	事實上 , 我甚至不確定我可以在沒有步行者的體育場四周 。
i was told that this was no laughing matter .	我被告知 , 這不是笑話 。
this would be the first time that only women would carry the olympic flag .	這是第一次 , 只有婦女會攜帶奧林匹克國旗 。
five women , representing five continents , and three olympic gold medal winners .	五個女人 , 代表五個大陸 , 三位奧運金牌贏家 。
my first question was , naturally , what was i going to wear ?	我的第一個問題是 , 很自然的 , 我將要穿什麼 ?
a uniform , she said , and asked for my measurements .	一個制服 , 她說 , 問了我的測量 。
i had a vision of myself in a fluffy anorak , looking like the michelin man .	我有一個想像 , 在一個流暢的亂流中 , 看起來像是米開林人 。
by the middle of february , i found myself in turin , where enthusiastic crowds cheered when any of the 80 olympic teams was in the street .	在二月中期 , 我發現自己在土耳其 , 那裡有熱情的群眾歡呼 , 在街上有80個奧運隊在街上 。
those athletes had sacrificed everything to compete in the games .	那些運動員犧牲了所有東西來競爭遊戲 。
they all deserved to win , but there's the element of luck .	他們都應得勝利 , 但運氣的元素 。
a speck of snow , an inch of ice , the force of the wind , can determine the result of a race or a game .	一英吋的雪 , 一英吋的冰 , 風的力量 , 可以決定種族或遊戲的結果 。
however , what matters most more than training or luck is the heart .	然而 , 最重要的是訓練或運氣是心臟 。
only a fearless and determined heart will get the gold medal .	只有一種無畏和堅決的心才會得到金牌 。
it is all about passion .	這一切都是關於熱情 。
the streets of turin were covered with red posters announcing the slogan of the olympics .	土耳其的街道被紅海報覆蓋 , 宣佈奧運的口號 。
passion lives here . isn't it always true ?	熱情生活在這裡 , 不是嗎 ?
heart is what drives us and determines our fate .	心是驅使我們和決定我們的命運 。
that is what i need for my characters in my books: a passionate heart .	這就是我在我的書中所需要的:熱情的心 。
i need mavericks , dissidents , adventurers , outsiders and rebels , who ask questions , bend the rules and take risks .	我需要mavericks、異議者、異議者、外人、反叛者 , 他們問問題、彎曲規則、冒險 。
people like all of you in this room .	像在座所有人一樣 。
nice people with common sense do not make interesting characters .	一個常識的人 , 沒有創造有趣的角色 。
they only make good former spouses .	它們只會製造出好的前配偶 。
in the green room of the stadium , i met the other flag bearers: three athletes , and the actresses susan sarandon and sophia loren .	在體育場的綠色房間裡 , 我遇見了其他的旗幟熊:三位運動員 , 也是索菲亞•羅倫 。
also , two women with passionate hearts: wangari maathai , the nobel prizewinner from kenya who has planted 30 million trees . and by doing so , she has changed the soil , the weather , in some places in africa , and of course the economic conditions in many villages .	此外 , 有兩個充滿熱情的婦女 , 一個來自肯亞的諾貝爾獎得主 , 她種植了三千萬棵樹 。 藉此 , 她改變了土壤 , 天氣 , 在非洲的某些地方 , 當然還有許多村莊的經濟狀況 。
and somaly mam , a cambodian activist who fights passionately against child prostitution .	媽媽媽 , 柬埔寨的活動家 , 熱情地對抗兒童賣淫 。
when she was 14 years old , her grandfather sold her to a brothel .	當她十四歲時 , 她的祖父把她賣給兄弟 。
she told us of little girls raped by men who believe that having sex with a very young virgin will cure them from aids .	她告訴我們小女孩被男人強暴 , 她們相信在愛滋病中有性行為 , 會治癒她們 。
and of brothels where children are forced to receive five , 15 clients per day , and if they rebel , they are tortured with electricity .	在那裡 , 孩子們被迫每天收到五、十五個客戶 , 如果他們反抗 , 他們就會受到電力折磨 。
in the green room i received my uniform .	在綠色的房間裡 , 我收到了制服 。
it was not the kind of outfit that i normally wear , but it was far from the michelin man suit that i had anticipated . not bad , really .	這不是我一般穿的衣服 , 而是來自密西林人的服裝 , 我預期的不是很糟 , 真的很糟 。
i looked like a refrigerator .	我看起來像是冰箱 。
but so did most of the flagbearers , except sophia loren , the universal symbol of beauty and passion .	但 , 大部分的旗幟家 , 除了蘇菲亞洛倫 , 美和熱情的普遍象徵 。
sophia is over 70 and she looks great .	蘇菲亞超過70歲 , 她看起來很棒 。
she's sexy , slim and tall , with a deep tan .	她很性感、很瘦、很高、很高、很高 。
now , how can you have a deep tan and have no wrinkles ?	那麼 , 你如何能擁有一個深刻的坦克斯 , 沒有皺紋 ?
when asked in a tv interview , " how could she look so good ? "	在電視訪談中被問到: 「 她怎麼看起來這麼好 ? 」
she replied , " posture . my back is always straight , and i don't make old people's noises . "	她回答: 「 姿勢 , 我的背總是直直的 , 我不會讓老人的噪音 。 」
so , there you have some free advice from one of the most beautiful women on earth .	所以 , 這裡有一些免費的建議 , 來自地球上最美麗的女性 。
no grunting , no coughing , no wheezing , no talking to yourselves , no farting .	沒有誇張 , 沒有咳嗽 , 沒有吹口哨 , 沒有跟自己說話 , 沒有遙控 。
well , she didn't say that exactly .	嗯 , 她並沒有說這句話 。
at some point around midnight , we were summoned to the wings of the stadium , and the loudspeakers announced the olympic flag , and the music started by the way , the same music that starts here , the aida march .	在午夜的某個時點 , 我們被召喚到體育場的翅膀 , 大聲調員宣佈奧運國旗 , 音樂從這裡開始 , 相同的音樂從這裡開始 , 艾達•馬赫 。
sophia loren was right in front of me she's a foot taller than i am , not counting the poofy hair .	蘇菲亞•羅倫在我面前 , 她比我高一英尺 , 不是在計算小毛髮 。
she walked elegantly , like a giraffe on the african savannah , holding the flag on her shoulder . i jogged behind on my tiptoes holding the flag on my extended arm , so that my head was actually under the damn flag .	她走得很優雅 , 像非洲大草原上的長頸鹿 , 把旗子放在肩膀上 , 我在我的尖邊伸出旗子 , 所以我的頭其實是在丹旗下 。
all the cameras were , of course , on sophia .	當然 , 所有的相機都在蘇菲亞 。
that was fortunate for me , because in most press photos i appear too , although often between sophia's legs .	這對我來說很幸運 , 因為在大部分的媒體照片中 , 我也出現在蘇菲亞的雙腿之間 。
a place where most men would love to be .	大部分男人都喜歡成為一個地方 。
the best four minutes of my entire life were those in the olympic stadium .	我人生中最棒的四分鐘是奧林匹克體育館裡的那些人 。
my husband is offended when i say this although i have explained to him that what we do in private usually takes less than four minutes so he shouldn't take it personally .	當我說這句話時 , 我的丈夫被冒犯了 , 雖然我向他解釋 , 我們在私下的做法通常只花不到四分鐘 , 所以他不應該私下採取它 。
i have all the press clippings of those four magnificent minutes , because i don't want to forget them when old age destroys my brain cells .	我有四分鐘的媒體按鈕 , 因為我不想忘記 , 古老的腦細胞破壞我的大腦細胞 。
i want to carry in my heart forever the key word of the olympics passion .	我想永遠帶著奧林匹克熱情的關鍵字 。
so here's a tale of passion .	這是個充滿熱情的故事 。
the year is 1998 , the place is a prison camp for tutsi refugees in congo .	今年是1998年 , 剛果的特魯西難民營是個監獄營 。
by the way , 80 percent of all refugees and displaced people in the world are women and girls .	順道一提 , 世界上80%的難民和歧視者是女性和女孩 。
we can call this place in congo a death camp , because those who are not killed will die of disease or starvation .	我們可以稱之為 「 剛果死亡營地 」 , 因為那些未被殺死的人 , 會死於疾病或飢餓 。
the protagonists of this story are a young woman , rose mapendo , and her children .	這個故事的主角是一位年輕女子 , 羅塞•地圖 , 和她的孩子 。
she's pregnant and a widow .	她懷孕和寡婦 。
soldiers have forced her to watch as her husband was tortured and killed .	士兵強迫她去看她的丈夫被虐待和殺害 。
somehow she manages to keep her seven children alive , and a few months later , she gives birth to premature twins .	不知怎麼的 , 她能讓她七個孩子活下來 , 幾個月後 , 她生下了雙胞胎 。
two tiny little boys .	兩個小男孩 。
she cuts the umbilical cord with a stick , and ties it with her own hair .	她用棍子來切斷腫瘤 , 用自己的頭髮做結合 。
she names the twins after the camp's commanders to gain their favor , and feeds them with black tea because her milk cannot sustain them .	她把雙胞胎命名為營隊的指揮者 , 以獲得他們的利益 , 餵飽黑人茶 , 因為她的牛奶無法維持它們 。
when the soldiers burst in her cell to rape her oldest daughter , she grabs hold of her and refuses to let go , even when they hold a gun to her head .	當軍人在她的牢房中強暴她最老的女兒時 , 她抓住她的女兒 , 拒絕放手 , 即使她們拿著槍頭 。
somehow , the family survives for 16 months , and then , by extraordinary luck , and the passionate heart of a young american man , sasha chanoff , who manages to put her in a u . s . rescue plane , rose mapendo and her nine children end up in phoenix , arizona , where they're now living and thriving .	不知怎麼的 , 家庭存活了16個月 , 接著 , 由亞利桑那州 , 一位年輕人的熱情之心 , 薩薩哈•查諾夫 , 把她送進美國救援飛機 , 羅斯•貝多和她的九個孩子最後到了鳳凰 , 亞利桑納 , 在那裡 , 他們活著和茁壯 。
mapendo , in swahili , means great love .	在斯瓦希里 , 地圖是很棒的愛 。
the protagonists of my books are strong and passionate women like rose mapendo .	我的書中的主角是堅強且熱情的女性 , 例如羅斯地圖 。
i don't make them up . there's no need for that .	我不會把它們弄出來 , 沒有必要的 。
i look around and i see them everywhere .	我環顧四周 , 無所不在 。
i have worked with women and for women all my life .	我一生都在與女性和女性一起工作 。
i know them well .	我知道他們很清楚 。
i was born in ancient times , at the end of the world , in a patriarchal catholic and conservative family .	我出生於古代 , 在世界末日 , 在父權天主教和保守家庭中 。
no wonder that by age five i was a raging feminist although the term had not reached chile yet , so nobody knew what the heck was wrong with me .	難怪在我五歲時 , 我是個憤怒的女權主義者雖然這個詞尚未接觸到智利 , 所以沒有人知道我是怎麼回事的 。
i would soon find out that there was a high price to pay for my freedom , and for questioning the patriarchy .	我很快就會發現 , 為我的自由付出很高的代價 , 並且質疑父權主義 。
but i was happy to pay it , because for every blow that i received , i was able to deliver two .	但我很高興能付出這筆錢 , 因為每一股我都能付出兩台錢 。
once , when my daughter paula was in her twenties , she said to me that feminism was dated , that i should move on .	有一次 , 我女兒保拉在她二十歲時 , 她對我說女權主義是約會的 , 我應該繼續下去 。
we had a memorable fight . feminism is dated ?	我們有了不可思議的鬥爭 , 女權主義是約會的 ?
yes , for privileged women like my daughter and all of us here today , but not for most of our sisters in the rest of the world who are still forced into premature marriage , prostitution , forced labor they have children that they don't want or they cannot feed .	是的 , 對於像我女兒和所有人這樣的特權女性來說 , 現今在世界上大部分的姊妹仍然被強迫做早婚、妓女、迫使勞工 , 她們有孩子 , 她們不想要或不能餵飽 。
they have no control over their bodies or their lives .	他們無法控制自己的身體或自己的生命 。
they have no education and no freedom .	他們沒有教育 , 也沒有自由 。
they are raped , beaten up and sometimes killed with impunity .	他們被強暴、被毆打、有時被無罪殺 。
for most western young women of today , being called a feminist is an insult .	至今大部分的西方女性 , 被稱為女性主義者是一種侮辱 。
feminism has never been sexy , but let me assure you that it never stopped me from flirting , and i have seldom suffered from lack of men .	女權主義從來沒有性感 , 但讓我向你保證 , 它從來沒有阻止我發情 , 而我也因為缺乏男性而遭受過嚴重的痛苦 。
feminism is not dead , by no means .	女權主義沒有死 , 沒有意義 。
it has evolved . if you don't like the term , change it , for goddess' sake .	它演化了 。 如果你不喜歡這個詞 , 改變它 , 改變它 , 給女神的選擇 。
call it aphrodite , or venus , or bimbo , or whatever you want ; the name doesn't matter , as long as we understand what it is about , and we support it .	稱之為 「 異性 」 , 金星 , 或任何你想要的 , 名字並不重要 , 只要我們了解它是什麼 , 我們就支持它 。
so here's another tale of passion , and this is a sad one .	這是另外一個熱情的故事 , 這是個悲傷的例子 。
the place is a small women's clinic in a village in bangladesh .	這個地方是一個小婦女診所 , 位於孟加拉的村莊 。
the year is 2005 .	今年是2005年 。
jenny is a young american dental hygienist who has gone to the clinic as a volunteer during her threeweek vacation .	珍妮是一位年輕的美國牙醫衛生學家 , 她在三週的假期中擔任志工 。
she's prepared to clean teeth , but when she gets there , she finds out that there are no doctors , no dentists , and the clinic is just a hut full of flies .	她準備要清潔牙齒 , 但當她到達那裡時 , 她發現沒有醫生 , 沒有牙醫 , 診所只是充滿蒼蠅的小屋 。
outside , there is a line of women who have waited several hours to be treated .	外面有一群女人 , 等了幾個小時才能被治療 。
the first patient is in excruciating pain because she has several rotten molars .	第一位病人在痛苦中 , 是因為她有幾種腐爛的腫瘤 。
jenny realizes that the only solution is to pull out the bad teeth .	珍妮知道 , 唯一的解決方案就是拿出壞牙齒 。
she's not licensed for that ; she has never done it .	她不為此授權 ; 她從來沒有做過 。
she risks a lot and she's terrified .	她冒了很多險 , 且她很害怕 。
she doesn't even have the proper instruments , but fortunately she has brought some novocaine .	她甚至沒有適當的樂器 , 但幸運的是她帶了一些新鮮事 。
jenny has a brave and passionate heart .	珍妮有勇敢和熱情的心 。
she murmurs a prayer and she goes ahead with the operation .	她是一位禱告師 , 她向前走 。
at the end , the relieved patient kisses her hands .	最後 , 幻想的病人親吻她的手 。
that day the hygienist pulls out many more teeth .	那天 , 衛生學家拉出更多牙齒 。
the next morning , when she comes again to the socalled clinic , her first patient is waiting for her with her husband .	隔天早上 , 她再次來到所謂的診所 , 她的第一位病人正在和丈夫等著她 。
the woman's face looks like a watermelon .	女人的臉看起來就像是水手 。
it is so swollen that you can't even see the eyes .	你甚至看不到眼睛的腫脹 。
the husband , furious , threatens to kill the american .	丈夫 , 非常憤怒 , 威脅要殺死美國人 。
jenny is horrified at what she has done , but then the translator explains that the patient's condition has nothing to do with the operation .	珍妮對她所做的事感到害怕 , 但翻譯解釋病人的狀況和手術無關 。
the day before , her husband beat her up because she was not home in time to prepare dinner for him .	前一天 , 她的丈夫打敗她 , 因為她當時不在家 , 為他準備晚餐 。
millions of women live like this today .	現今有數百萬名女性生活在這裡 。
they are the poorest of the poor .	他們是窮人中最窮的人 。
although women do twothirds of the world's labor , they own less than one percent of the world's assets .	雖然女性有三分之二的勞動力 , 但她們擁有世界上少於1%的資產 。
they are paid less than men for the same work if they're paid at all , and they remain vulnerable because they have no economic independence , and they are constantly threatened by exploitation , violence and abuse .	他們的薪水低於同事 , 如果他們薪水很低 , 他們仍然很脆弱 , 因為他們沒有經濟獨立 , 且他們經常受到剝削、暴力和虐待 。
it is a fact that giving women education , work , the ability to control their own income , inherit and own property , benefits the society .	事實上 , 給予婦女教育、工作能力、控制自己的收入、繼承和自身財產 , 讓社會受益 。
if a woman is empowered , her children and her family will be better off .	如果一個女人被賦予權力 , 她的孩子和家人會更好 。
if families prosper , the village prospers , and eventually so does the whole country .	如果家庭繁榮 , 村子繁榮 , 最終 , 整個國家也是如此 。
wangari maathai goes to a village in kenya .	wangarimaathai到肯亞的一個村子 。
she talks with the women and explains that the land is barren because they have cut and sold the trees .	她跟女人說話 , 解釋土地是barren , 因為他們已經砍樹 , 賣樹木 。
she gets the women to plant new trees and water them , drop by drop .	她讓婦女去種新的樹和水 , 一滴一滴下去 。
in a matter of five or six years , they have a forest , the soil is enriched , and the village is saved .	在5或6年之內 , 他們有一片森林 , 土壤充滿豐富 , 村子就拯救了 。
the poorest and most backward societies are always those that put women down .	最貧窮和最後退的社會總是把女人放下 。
yet this obvious truth is ignored by governments and also by philanthropy .	然而 , 這種顯而易見的事實卻被政府和慈善事業忽略了 。
for every dollar given to a women's program , 20 dollars are given to men's programs .	每一塊錢給婦女計畫 , 每一塊20塊美金給男人的計畫 。
women are 51 percent of humankind .	女性是51%的人 。
empowering them will change everything more than technology and design and entertainment .	給予他們力量 , 將改變一切 , 遠超過科技和設計和娛樂 。
i can promise you that women working together linked , informed and educated can bring peace and prosperity to this forsaken planet .	我可以向各位保證 , 女性一起工作、聯繫、資訊、受過教育 , 能讓和平和繁榮帶給這個史無前例的星球 。
in any war today , most of the casualties are civilians , mainly women and children . they are collateral damage .	在任何戰爭中 , 大部分的傷亡都是平民 , 主要是女人和小孩 。 他們是相對的傷害 。
men run the world , and look at the mess we have .	男人跑遍世界 , 看看我們有哪一團糟 。
what kind of world do we want ?	我們想要什麼樣的世界 ?
this is a fundamental question that most of us are asking .	這是我們大多數人在問的一個根本問題 。
does it make sense to participate in the existing world order ?	要參與現有的世界秩序是有道理的嗎 ?
we want a world where life is preserved and the quality of life is enriched for everybody , not only for the privileged .	我們想要一個世界 , 生活的品質和生活的品質 , 不僅是對所有人的特權而已 。
in january i saw an exhibit of fernando botero's paintings at the uc berkeley library .	在一月 , 我看到了fernandobotero的畫作 , 在加州柏克萊圖書館 。
no museum or gallery in the united states , except for the new york gallery that carries botero's work , has dared to show the paintings because the theme is the abu ghraib prison .	沒有美國的博物館或藝廊 , 除了紐約的畫廊 , 那些帶著波特羅的作品 , 都很高興能展現這幅畫 , 因為主題是阿布格拉伯監獄 。
they are huge paintings of torture and abuse of power , in the voluminous botero style .	它們是巨大的虐待和濫用權力的大畫作 , 在大型的玻璃風格中 。
i have not been able to get those images out of my mind or my heart .	我無法把這些影像從我的心中得到 , 或我的心中 。
what i fear most is power with impunity .	我最擔心的是 「 不幸 」 的力量 。
i fear abuse of power , and the power to abuse .	我害怕濫用權力和濫用權力 。
in our species , the alpha males define reality , and force the rest of the pack to accept that reality and follow the rules .	在我們的物種中 , 雄性領袖定義了現實 , 迫使其餘的包裝接受現實 , 並遵循規則 。
the rules change all the time , but they always benefit them , and in this case , the trickledown effect , which does not work in economics , works perfectly .	規則不斷地改變 , 但他們總是有益 , 在這個案例中 , 被欺騙的效果 , 在經濟上行不通 , 完美地運作 。
abuse trickles down from the top of the ladder to the bottom .	從梯子的頂端 , 虐待技巧從梯子的頂端到底部 。
women and children , especially the poor , are at the bottom .	女性和孩子 , 尤其是窮人 , 在底部 。
even the most destitute of men have someone they can abuse a woman or a child .	即使是男人中最多的學徒 , 他們也能虐待一個女人或一個小孩 。
i'm fed up with the power that a few exert over the many through gender , income , race , and class .	我得到的力量是少於性別、收入、種族、階級的權力 。
i think that the time is ripe to make fundamental changes in our civilization .	我認為 , 時間是為了在我們的文明中做出根本的改變 。
but for real change , we need feminine energy in the management of the world .	但對真正的改變 , 我們需要女性化的精力在世界上的管理上 。
we need a critical number of women in positions of power , and we need to nurture the feminine energy in men .	我們需要很多女性在權力的位置上 , 我們需要培養男性的女性能量 。
i'm talking about men with young minds , of course .	當然 , 我在談的是年輕人的心智 。
old guys are hopeless ; we have to wait for them to die off .	老年人是無希望的 ; 我們必須等待他們死去 。
yes , i would love to have sophia loren's long legs and legendary breasts .	是的 , 我很想有索菲亞•洛倫的長腿和傳奇的胸部 。
but given a choice , i would rather have the warrior hearts of wangari maathai , somaly mam , jenny and rose mapendo .	但 , 為了一個選擇 , 我寧願有天使的熱心 , 瑪麗 , 媽媽 , 珍妮和玫瑰地圖 。
i want to make this world good .	我想要讓這個世界好 。
not better , but to make it good .	不是更好 , 而是要讓它更好 。
why not ? it is possible . look around in this room all this knowledge , energy , talent and technology .	為何不 ? 它是可能的 。 看看這間房間裡的知識、能量、才華和科技 。
let's get off our fannies , roll up our sleeves and get to work , passionately , in creating an almost perfect world .	咱們走下去 , 捲起袖子 , 熱情地工作 , 創造一個幾乎完美的世界 。
every day , in a city the size of london , 30 million meals are served . but where does all the food come from ? architect carolyn steel discusses the daily miracle of feeding a city , and shows how ancient food routes shaped the modern world .	每一天 , 倫敦的大小 , 三千萬份餐都被服務 。 但所有食物都來自哪裡 ? 建築師卡林•史蒂爾討論城市的日常奇蹟 , 並展現古老的糧食路線如何塑造現代的世界 。
cities , culture , food , global issues	城市、文化、食物、全球議題、全球議題 。
carolyn steel: how food shapes our cities	嘉賓史蒂爾:食物如何塑造我們的城市 。
how do you feed a city ?	你要如何餵飽城市 ?
it's one of the great questions of our time .	這是我們時代最棒的問題之一 。
yet it's one that's rarely asked .	但很少被問到 。
we take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant , or indeed into this theater's foyer in about an hour's time , there is going to be food there waiting for us , having magically come from somewhere .	我們把它視為理所當然 , 如果我們走進商店或餐廳 , 或是在一小時內進入這個劇院的foyer , 那裡將會有食物等著我們 , 神奇地來自某處 。
but when you think that every day for a city the size of london , enough food has to be produced , transported , bought and sold , cooked , eaten , disposed of , and that something similar has to happen every day for every city on earth , it's remarkable that cities get fed at all .	但當你想到 , 倫敦的城市的大小 , 食物必須被生產、運送、購買、吃、丟棄、丟棄 , 類似的事情 , 都必須在地球上每一天發生 , 城市都能被餵食 。
we live in places like this as if they're the most natural things in the world , forgetting that because we're animals and that we need to eat , we're actually as dependent on the natural world as our ancient ancestors were .	我們生活在這樣的地方 , 彷彿他們是世界上最自然的事物 , 忘了 , 因為我們是動物 , 我們需要吃 , 我們其實是依賴自然界的祖先 。
and as more of us move into cities , more of that natural world is being transformed into extraordinary landscapes like the one behind me it's soybean fields in mato grosso in brazil in order to feed us .	隨著我們進入城市 , 越來越多的自然世界被轉化成非凡的景觀 , 像我身後的這個景觀 , 它在巴西的馬托格羅索 , 為了餵飽我們 。
these are extraordinary landscapes , but few of us ever get to see them .	這些是非凡的景觀 , 但少數人見到它們 。
and increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either .	而這些地景越來越多 , 不單只是給我們餵食 。
as more of us move into cities , more of us are eating meat , so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals .	隨著我們進入城市 , 越來越多人吃肉 , 所以每年全球有三分之一的農作物被餵食給動物 , 而非我們人類的動物 。
and given that it takes three times as much grain actually ten times as much grain to feed a human if it's passed through an animal first , that's not a very efficient way of feeding us .	既然它需要三倍的穀物才能餵飽人類 , 如果它通過動物的第一條路 , 那就不是非常有效率的餵養我們 。
and it's an escalating problem too .	這也是一個惡化的問題 。
by 2050 , it's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities .	到了2050年 , 估計我們在城市中有兩倍的人口 。
and it's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed .	據估計 , 肉類和乳類消耗量會增加兩倍 。
so meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand .	肉類和都市主義正在舉手 。
and that's going to pose an enormous problem .	這會帶來巨大的問題 。
six billion hungry carnivores to feed , by 2050 .	到2050年 , 60億隻飢餓的食肉食品 。
that's a big problem . and actually if we carry on as we are , it's a problem we're very unlikely to be able to solve .	這是個很大的問題 。 實際上 , 如果我們繼續這樣下去 , 這是個我們無法解決的問題 。
nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land .	每年有九百萬公頃的雨林失去 , 創造出新的可耕地 。
although at the same time we're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion .	雖然同時 , 我們也失去了相當多現有的可耕種 , 來達成鹽化和侵蝕 。
we're very hungry for fossil fuels too .	我們對化石燃料也很渴望 。
it takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the west .	要花大約10卡路里才能產生我們在西方所消耗的每一卡路里 。
and even though there is food that we are producing at great cost , we don't actually value it .	儘管我們有很大的成本生產食物 , 我們其實不重視它 。
half the food produced in the usa is currently thrown away .	美國目前有一半的食物會被丟棄 。
and to end all of this , at the end of this long process , we're not even managing to feed the planet properly .	為了結束這一切 , 在長程結束後 , 我們甚至無法妥善管理地球的糧食 。
a billion of us are obese , while a further billion starve .	我們當中有十億人肥胖 , 同時又是十億人挨餓 。
none of it makes very much sense .	沒有什麼意義 。
and when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations , it's a grim picture .	當你認為80%的全球貿易現在被五大企業控制時 , 全球交易是很嚴格的 。
as we're moving into cities , the world is also embracing a western diet .	隨著我們進入城市 , 世界也在擁抱西方的飲食 。
and if we look to the future , it's an unsustainable diet .	如果我們看看未來 , 它是種無法永續的飲食 。
so how did we get here ?	我們是怎麼走到這一步的 ?
and more importantly , what are we going to do about it ?	更重要的是 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , to answer the slightly easier question first , about 10 , 000 years ago , i would say , is the beginning of this process in the ancient near east , known as the fertile crescent .	首先 , 來回答這個問題 , 大約一萬年前 , 我會說 , 這個過程的開端是古老的東岸 , 所謂的肥沃口腔 。
because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .	因為 , 正如你所見 , 最近的形狀 。
and it was also fertile .	同時也是肥沃 。
and it was here , about 10 , 000 years ago , that two extraordinary inventions , agriculture and urbanism , happened roughly in the same place and at the same time .	大約一萬年前 , 這裡有兩個非凡的發明 , 農業和城市主義 , 發生在同一個地方 , 同時發生了 。
this is no accident , because agriculture and cities are bound together . they need each other .	這不是意外 , 因為農業和城市是互相連結的 。 他們需要彼此 。
because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements .	因為它是從我們古老的祖先所發現的穀物 , 第一次產生出足夠的食物來源 , 足以維持永久的居住地 。
and if we look at what those settlements were like , we see they were compact .	如果我們看看這些定居處的樣子 , 我們會發現它們是完整的 。
they were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at ur , that were , in fact , effectively , spiritualized , central food distribution centers .	他們被農地包圍 , 被大型寺廟複雜的神廟包圍 , 如同烏地 , 實際上 , 由中央食物分佈中心來主導 。
because it was the temples that organized the harvest , gathered in the grain , offered it to the gods , and then offered the grain that the gods didn't eat back to the people .	因為那是把收穫的神殿 , 聚集在穀物中 , 提供給神的神 , 接著 , 神才不會再吃掉人 。
so , if you like , the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them .	所以 , 如果你喜歡 , 這些城市的整個精神和生理生活 , 都是由穀物所主宰的 , 以及維持它們的收穫 。
and in fact , that's true of every ancient city .	事實上 , 每個古老城市都是如此 。
but of course not all of them were that small .	但當然不是全部都那麼小 。
famously , rome had about a million citizens by the first century a . d .	最著名的是 , 羅馬在第一世紀就有一百萬個市民 。
so how did a city like this feed itself ?	那麼 , 像這樣的城市如何自給自足 ?
the answer is what i call " ancient food miles . "	答案是 , 我稱之為 「 古老的食物旅程 」 。
basically , rome had access to the sea , which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away .	基本上 , 羅馬能接觸到海洋 , 讓它可以從很長的路外進入港口食物 。
this is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world , because it was very difficult to transport food over roads , which were rough .	這是在古代世界中唯一能做到的辦法 , 因為很難把食物運送到道路上 , 這樣很艱辛 。
and the food obviously went off very quickly .	很顯然 , 食物很快就消失了 。
so rome effectively waged war on places like carthage and egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves .	所以 , 羅馬有效地打擊了像卡瑟和埃及那樣的地區 , 只為了讓它在它們的穀物保留下來 。
and , in fact , you could say that the expansion of the empire was really sort of one long , drawn out militarized shopping spree , really .	事實上 , 你可以說 , 帝國的擴張是相當長的 , 把軍事化的購物速度拿出來 , 真的 。
in fact i love the fact , i just have to mention this: rome in fact used to import oysters from london , at one stage . i think that's extraordinary .	事實上 , 我很喜歡這個事實 , 我只需要提到這個:羅馬以前從倫敦到奧特斯特 , 在某個階段 , 我覺得這很不尋常 。
so rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite .	羅馬透過胃口塑造了它的蜂群 。
but the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the preindustrial world .	但有趣的是 , 另一件事情也發生在工業時代 。
if we look at a map of london in the 17th century , we can see that its grain , which is coming in from the thames , along the bottom of this map .	如果我們看看十七世紀的倫敦地圖 , 我們可以看到它的穀物 , 它的穀物是從這張地圖的底部來的 。
so the grain markets were to the south of the city .	所以 , 穀物市場到城市的南方 。
and the roads leading up from them to cheapside , which was the main market , were also grain markets .	道路從他們走到廉價的市場 , 也是主要的市場 。
and if you look at the name of one of those streets , bread street , you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago .	如果你看看其中一條街道的名字 , 麵包街 , 你可以知道300年前發生了什麼事 。
and the same of course was true for fish .	當然 , 對魚來說也是如此 。
fish was , of course , coming in by river as well . same thing .	當然 , 魚也是靠河流進來的 。 同樣的事 。
and of course billingsgate , famously , was london's fish market , operating onsite here until the mid1980s .	當然 , 很有名的 , 是倫敦的魚市場 , 直到1980年代中期一直在營運 。
which is extraordinary , really , when you think about it .	真的 , 真的 , 想想這點 , 真是太棒了 。
everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port .	其他所有人都在帶著行動電話 , 看起來像是磚塊 , 有點像在港口上流下的魚 。
this is another thing about food in cities: once its roots into the city are established , they very rarely move .	城市裡的食物是另一回事:一旦城市的根源被建立起來 , 它們很少會移動 。
meat is a very different story because , of course , animals could walk into the city .	肉類是個非常不一樣的故事 , 因為 , 動物可以走進城市 。
so much of london's meat was coming from the northwest , from scotland and wales .	倫敦的肉類來自西北部 , 蘇格蘭和威爾斯 。
so it was coming in , and arriving at the city at the northwest , which is why smithfield , london's very famous meat market , was located up there .	所以它來了 , 抵達西北部的城市 , 這就是為什麼史密斯菲爾德 , 倫敦著名的肉市場 , 位在那兒 。
poultry was coming in from east anglia and so on , to the northeast .	污染來自東部 , 諸如此類 , 到東北部 。
i feel a bit like a weather woman doing this . anyway , and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes .	我覺得有點像氣象女人在做這件事 。 不管怎樣 , 鳥兒就在腳上保護著小畫布鞋 。
and then when they hit the eastern end of cheapside , that's where they were sold , which is why it's called poultry .	然後當他們到了便宜的東部時 , 他們就在那兒賣 , 這就是為什麼它叫做 " 污染 " 。
and , in fact , if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age , you can trace food coming in to it .	事實上 , 如果你看看任何城市在工業時代建立的地圖 , 你可以追蹤食物來到它之前的食物 。
you can actually see how it was physically shaped by food , both by reading the names of the streets , which give you a lot of clues .	你可以看到它是如何形塑的 , 透過閱讀街頭的名字 , 讓你知道很多線索 。
friday street , in a previous life , is where you went to buy your fish on a friday .	星期五街 , 在一個星期五的生活中 , 你在星期五去買你的魚 。
but also you have to imagine it full of food .	但你也得想像它充滿了食物 。
because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold .	因為街道和公共空間是唯一能買到食物的地方 。
and if we look at an image of smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from .	如果我們看看1830年的史密斯菲爾德的影像 , 你可以看到 , 在這樣的城市中 , 很難想像你的食物來自哪裡 。
in fact , if you were having sunday lunch , the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier .	事實上 , 如果你有星期日午餐 , 你的機會就在三天前就在你的窗外 。
so this was obviously an organic city , part of an organic cycle .	顯然這是一個有機的城市 , 一個有機循環的一部分 。
and then 10 years later everything changed .	十年後一切都改變了 。
this is an image of the great western in 1840 .	這是1840年的偉大西方的照片 。
and as you can see , some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep .	如你所見 , 一些最早的火車乘客是豬和羊 。
so all of a sudden , these animals are no longer walking into market .	突然間 , 這些動物不再進入市場 。
they're being slaughtered out of sight and mind , somewhere in the countryside .	他們從視覺和心中被屠宰 , 在鄉村的某處 。
and they're coming into the city by rail .	他們被鐵軌進入城市 。
and this changes everything .	這改變了一切 。
to start off with , it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities , really any size and shape , in any place .	首先 , 要從這裡開始 , 首次可以種植城市 , 任何大小和形狀 , 任何地方都有可能 。
cities used to be constrained by geography ; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means .	過去 , 城市被地理限制了 ; 他們以前得要用非常困難的實體方式來取得食物 。
all of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography .	突然間 , 他們從地理位置解放出來 。
and as you can see from these maps of london , in the 90 years after the trains came , it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot , and so on , to a large splurge , that would be very , very difficult to feed with anybody on foot , either animals or people .	正如你從倫敦的地圖看到的 , 在火車經過的90年後 , 它從一個小小的氣球 , 很容易被動物從腳上進來 , 到一個大的水泥 , 非常難和任何人在腳上、腳上、或人類一起餵食 。
and of course that was just the beginning . after the trains came cars , and really this marks the end of this process .	當然 , 這只是開端 。 火車經過車輛 , 真的是這個過程的終點 。
it's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all .	它是城市的最後一種解放 , 完全與大自然的關係 。
and this is the kind of city that's devoid of smell , devoid of mess , certainly devoid of people , because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape .	這種城市是缺乏氣味、缺乏混亂的城市 , 肯定是缺乏人的 , 因為沒有人會夢想在這樣的地景中走路 。
in fact , what they did to get food was they got in their cars , drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts , came back with a week's worth of shopping , and wondered what on earth to do with it .	事實上 , 他們所做的是拿到食物 , 開車到戶外的某個地方 , 再回來一週的購物中心 , 想知道地球上該怎麼做 。
and this really is the moment when our relationship , both with food and cities , changes completely .	此時此刻 , 與食物和城市的關係 , 完全改變了 。
here we have food that used to be the center , the social core of the city at the periphery .	這裡的食物是市中心 , 市區的社會核心 。
it used to be a social event , buying and selling food .	以前是社會活動 , 買東西和賣食物 。
we used to cook ; now we just add water , or a little bit of an egg if you're making a cake or something .	我們以前烹飪過來 , 只要加一點水 , 或少一點卵 , 只要你做蛋糕或其他東西 。
we don't smell food to see if it's okay to eat .	我們不會聞到食物 , 看看是否可以吃 。
we just read the back of a label on a packet .	我們剛在包裝上讀到標籤的後面 。
and we don't value food . we don't trust it .	我們不重視食物 , 我們不信任它 。
so instead of trusting it , we fear it .	所以 , 我們不相信它 , 而是害怕它 。
and instead of valuing it , we throw it away .	而不是評估它 , 而是把它丟掉 。
one of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder .	現代的糧食系統之一 , 其中一個很諷刺 , 是他們承諾要讓食物更容易 。
by making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place , they've actually distanced us from our most important relationship , which is that of us and nature .	藉由讓任何地方都可以建立城市 , 實際上 , 它們與我們最重要的關係有關係 , 也就是我們和大自然之間的距離 。
and also they've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver , that , as we've seen , are unsustainable .	同時 , 它們也讓我們依賴了系統 , 只有它們才能實現 , 如我們所見 , 無法永續發展 。
so what are we going to do about that ?	那我們要怎麼做呢 ?
it's not a new question .	這不是一個新問題 。
500 years ago it's what thomas more was asking himself .	500年前 , 湯瑪斯自問得更多 。
this is the frontispiece of his book " utopia . "	這是他的書《烏托邦》的首席成果 。
and it was a series of semiindependent citystates , if that sounds remotely familiar , a day's walk from one another where everyone was basically farmingmad , and grew vegetables in their back gardens , and ate communal meals together , and so on .	這是一系列半獨立的城市 , 如果聽起來很遙遠 , 有一天 , 每個人基本上都是養殖 , 在他們的後花園裡種植蔬菜 , 然後一起吃餐 , 等等 。
and i think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of utopia , even though more never framed it that way .	我想你們可以主張 , 食物是烏托邦的基本秩序原則 , 儘管它從來沒有這麼想過 。
and here is another very famous " utopian " vision , that of ebenezer howard , " the garden city . "	這是另一個非常有名的 「 烏托邦 」 遠景 , 伊本霍華的 「 花園城市 」 。
same idea: series of semiindependent citystates , little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around , joined to one another by railway .	同樣的點子:一系列半獨立的城市 , 都市的小塊大地 , 附近有可耕地 , 加入了鐵路 。
and again , food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision .	同樣地 , 食物可以被說是他視覺的順序原則 。
it even got built , but nothing to do with this vision that howard had .	它甚至被建造出來 , 但和霍華的視覺無關 。
and that is the problem with these utopian ideas , that they are utopian .	而這些烏托邦的想法 , 就是他們是烏托邦人 。
utopia was actually a word that thomas moore used deliberately .	烏托邦其實是湯瑪斯•摩爾故意使用的詞 。
it was a kind of joke , because it's got a double derivation from the greek .	這是個笑話 , 因為希臘的雙重指揮 。
it can either mean a good place , or no place .	它可能意味著一個好的地方 , 或沒有地方 。
because it's an ideal . it's an imaginary thing . we can't have it .	因為這是一個理想的 , 一個想像性的事物 。 我們無法擁有它 。
and i think , as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling , that makes it not much use .	我認為 , 作為一個概念化的工具 , 來思考人類最深層的問題 , 讓它無法使用 。
so i've come up with an alternative , which is sitopia , from the ancient greek , " sitos " for food , and " topos " for place .	所以我想出了一個替代方案 , 來自古希臘的 「 聖地 」 、 「 食物 」 、 「 接地 」 。
i believe we already live in sitopia .	我相信我們已經住在西托邦 。
we live in a world shaped by food , and if we realize that , we can use food as a really powerful tool a conceptual tool , design tool , to shape the world differently .	我們生活在一個由食物塑造的世界 , 如果我們意識到 , 我們能用食物作為一個非常強大的工具 , 一個概念的工具 , 設計工具 , 以不同的方式形塑世界 。
so if we were to do that , what might sitopia look like ?	所以如果我們這樣做 , 會是什麼樣子 ?
well i think it looks a bit like this .	我想它看起來有點像這樣 。
i have to use this slide . it's just the look on the face of the dog .	我得用這張投影片 , 只是狗的臉 。
but anyway , this is it's food at the center of life , at the center of family life , being celebrated , being enjoyed , people taking time for it .	總之 , 這是生活中央的食物 , 在家庭生活的中心 , 被慶祝、被享受 , 人們花時間去做 。
this is where food should be in our society .	在我們的社會中 , 食物應該是這樣 。
but you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this .	但 , 除非你有這樣的人 , 你就不可能有這樣的場景 。
by the way , these can be men as well .	順便一提 , 這些人也可以是男性 。
it's people who think about food , who think ahead , who plan , who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them .	人們會想到食物 , 先思考 , 他們計畫 , 可以盯著一堆原始蔬菜 , 並且認得它們 。
we need these people . we're part of a network .	我們需要這些人 , 我們是網路的一部分 。
because without these kinds of people we can't have places like this .	因為如果沒有這些人 , 我們就不可能有這樣的地方 。
here , i deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable .	在這裡 , 我刻意選擇這一點 , 因為這是男人買蔬菜的男人 。
but networks , markets where food is being grown locally .	但網絡 , 食物在當地種植的市場 。
it's common . it's fresh .	很常見 , 很新鮮 。
it's part of the social life of the city .	它是城市的社會生活的一部分 。
because without that , you can't have this kind of place , food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape , and is not just a zerosum commodity off in some unseen hellhole .	因為沒有這些 , 你不可能有這種地方 , 當地種植的食物 , 同時也是地景的一部分 , 不僅僅是一些失敗的地獄裡的零商品 。
cows with a view .	牛有一種觀點 。
steaming piles of humus .	一堆 「 嗡 」 的串流 。
this is basically bringing the whole thing together .	這基本上就是把整個東西結合在一起 。
and this is a community project i visited recently in toronto .	這是我最近在多倫多拜訪的社區計畫 。
it's a greenhouse , where kids get told all about food and growing their own food .	這是一個溫室 , 在那裡 , 孩子們會告訴所有關於食物和種植他們自己的食物 。
here is a plant called kevin , or maybe it's a plant belonging to a kid called kevin . i don't know .	這裡有個叫kevin的植物 , 或許它是屬於一個叫kevin的孩子 。 我不知道 。
but anyway , these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important .	總之 , 這些與大自然重新連結的項目是非常重要的 。
so sitopia , for me , is really a way of seeing .	所以 , 西托邦 , 對我來說 , 真的是種看法 。
it's basically recognizing that sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere .	基本上就是認知到 , 西托邦已經存在在小口袋裡 。
the trick is to join them up , to use food as a way of seeing .	訣竅是加入它們 , 用食物作為一種看待方式 。
and if we do that , we're going to stop seeing cities as big , metropolitan , unproductive blobs , like this .	如果我們這樣做 , 我們將不再把城市視為是大、大都市、不生產力的爆炸 。
we're going to see them more like this , as part of the productive , organic framework of which they are inevitably a part , symbiotically connected .	我們會把它們看得更像這樣 , 作為生產力、有機架構的一部分 , 不可避免地是一部分 , 相互連結 。
but of course , that's not a great image either , because we need not to be producing food like this anymore .	但當然 , 這不是一個很棒的影像 , 因為我們不需要再生產像這樣的食物 。
we need to be thinking more about permaculture , which is why i think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing .	我們需要更深入思考 , 這也是為什麼我認為這張影像總結了我認為我們需要做的事 。
it's a reconceptualization of the way food shapes our lives .	它是一種重新思考食物如何塑造我們的生活方式 。
the best image i know of this is from 650 years ago .	我所知道的最好的圖片是650年前 。
it's ambrogio lorenzetti's " allegory of good government . "	它是阿布羅吉歐•洛倫澤蒂的 「 良好政府的寓言 」 。
it's about the relationship between the city and the countryside .	重點是城市和鄉村之間的關係 。
and i think the message of this is very clear .	我覺得這訊息很清楚 。
if the city looks after the country , the country will look after the city .	如果城市照顧這個國家 , 國家會照顧這個城市 。
and i want us to ask now , what would ambrogio lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today ?	現在我要我們問 , 阿布羅吉歐•洛倫澤蒂如果他今天畫了這張圖片 , 阿布羅吉歐•洛倫澤蒂會怎麼樣 ?
what would an allegory of good government look like today ?	今天好的政府會是什麼樣子 ?
because i think it's an urgent question .	因為我認為這是一個迫切的問題 。
it's one we have to ask , and we have to start answering .	我們得要問 , 我們得要開始回答 。
we know we are what we eat .	我們知道我們吃的是什麼 。
we need to realize that the world is also what we eat .	我們需要了解 , 世界也是我們吃的 。
but if we take that idea , we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better .	但如果我們採取這個想法 , 我們可以用食物作為一個非常強大的工具來塑造世界更好的工具 。
weeks from the charter for compassion launch , karen armstrong looks at religion's role in the 21st century: will its dogmas divide us ? or will it unite us for common good ? she reviews the catalysts that can drive the world's faiths to rediscover the golden rule .	幾週後 , 卡倫•阿姆斯壯在21世紀的宗教角色:它的教條會不會分裂我們嗎 ? 或者它會讓我們團結在一起 ? 她會評視世界上的信仰 , 來重新審視黃金法則 。
god , ted prize , global issues , politics , religion , tedglobal2009 , violence	上帝、ted , 全球議題、政治、宗教、tedglobal2009、暴力、暴力 。
karen armstrong: let's revive the golden rule	卡倫•阿姆斯壯:讓我們重建黃金法則 。
for years i've been feeling frustrated , because as a religious historian , i've become acutely aware of the centrality of compassion in all the major world faiths .	多年來 , 我感到很挫折 , 因為身為一個宗教歷史學家 , 我已經意識到所有主要的信仰中央的同情心 。
every single one of them has evolved their own version of what's been called the golden rule .	每一個人都演化出他們自己的版本 , 來稱之為黃金法則 。
sometimes it comes in a positive version " always treat all others as you'd like to be treated yourself . "	有時 , 它出現在一個正面的版本中 , 「 總是對待所有人 , 如同你對待自己 。 」
and equally important is the negative version " don't do to others what you would not like them to do to you . "	同樣重要的是負面版本: 「 別對別人做你不想做的事 。 」
look into your own heart , discover what it is that gives you pain and then refuse , under any circumstance whatsoever , to inflict that pain on anybody else .	看看你自己的心 , 發現它會給你痛苦 , 然後拒絕任何情況 , 在任何人的情況下 , 去衝突任何人的痛苦 。
and people have emphasized the importance of compassion , not just because it sounds good , but because it works .	人們強調了同情心的重要性 , 不只是因為它聽起來很好 , 也因為它有效 。
people have found that when they have implemented the golden rule as confucius said , " all day and every day , " not just a question of doing your good deed for the day and then returning to a life of greed and egotism , but to do it all day and every day , you dethrone yourself from the center of your world , put another there , and you transcend yourself .	人們發現 , 當他們執行黃金法則時 , 說: 「 整天 , 不單是做好事的一天 , 再回到貪婪和自我主義的生命 , 每天都在做 , 把自己從世界的中心 , 放到另一邊 , 超越你自己 。
and it brings you into the presence of what's been called god , nirvana , rama , tao .	它帶你進入了所謂的神、nirvana、rama、tao 。
something that goes beyond what we know in our egobound existence .	超越我們所知的 , 超越了我們的自我存在 。
but you know you'd never know it a lot of the time , that this was so central to the religious life .	但你知道你從來沒有認識過這段時間 , 對宗教生活是如此中心的 。
because with a few wonderful exceptions , very often when religious people come together , religious leaders come together , they're arguing about abstruse doctrines or uttering a council of hatred or inveighing against homosexuality or something of that sort .	因為有幾個奇妙的例外 , 通常當宗教人士聚在一起時 , 宗教領袖聚在一起 , 他們爭論abstrustrines , 或說是仇恨或侵略同性戀或某種類型的 。
often people don't really want to be compassionate .	人們通常不想同情心 。
i sometimes see when i'm speaking to a congregation of religious people a sort of mutinous expression crossing their faces because people often want to be right instead .	我有時會看到我在和宗教人士談話時 , 會看到一種完全的表情 , 因為人們通常會想對 。
and that of course defeats the object of the exercise .	這當然會打敗運動的物體 。
now why was i so grateful to ted ?	為什麼我這麼感激ted ?
because they took me very gently from my booklined study and brought me into the 21st century , enabling me to speak to a much , much wider audience than i could have ever conceived .	因為他們讓我非常溫柔地從我的書籍研究帶領我進入21世紀 , 讓我能和更多的觀眾說話 , 比我想像中更廣 。
because i feel an urgency about this .	因為我對此感到急迫 。
if we don't manage to implement the golden rule globally , so that we treat all peoples , wherever and whoever they may be , as though they were as important as ourselves , i doubt that we'll have a viable world to hand on to the next generation .	如果我們無法在全球實施黃金法則 , 這樣我們才能對待所有人 , 無論他們身為何人 , 儘管他們和我們自己一樣重要 , 我懷疑我們將會有一個可行的世界 , 來傳遞下一代 。
the task of our time , one of the great tasks of our time , is to build a global society , as i said , where people can live together in peace .	我們這個時代的任務之一 , 是建立一個全球社會 , 如我所說 , 在那裡人們可以一起生活在和平之中 。
and the religions that should be making a major contribution are instead seen as part of the problem .	要做出重大貢獻的宗教 , 反而被視為問題的一部分 。
and of course it's not just religious people who believe in the golden rule .	當然 , 這不只是宗教人士相信黃金法則 。
this is the source of all morality , this imaginative act of empathy , putting yourself in the place of another .	這是所有道德的來源 , 這種同理心的想像力 , 把你自己放在另一個地方 。
and so we have a choice , it seems to me .	所以 , 我們有一個選擇 , 似乎對我來說 。
we can either go on bringing out or emphasizing the dogmatic and intolerant aspects of our faith , or we can go back to the rabbis . rabbi hillel , the older contemporary of jesus , who , when asked by a pagan to sum up the whole of jewish teaching while he stood on one leg , said , " that which is hateful to you , do not do to your neighbor .	要麼我們要麼把我們信仰的信仰帶到外面 , 再來談談猶太教 , 老年猶太教 , 老年的猶太教徒 , 當他把整個猶太教給一腿時 , 說: 「 對你來說 , 這對你是有害的 , 不要對你的鄰居 。
that is the torah and everything else is only commentary . "	那就是托拉 , 所有其他的都只是留言 。 」
and the rabbis and the early fathers of the church who said that any interpretation of scripture that bred hatred and disdain was illegitimate .	瑞比斯和早期教會的父親說 , 任何關於經文的詮釋都被培養成仇恨和殘疾 , 都是違法的 。
and we need to revive that spirit .	我們需要重建這精神 。
and it's not just going to happen because a spirit of love wafts us down .	這不只會發生 , 因為愛情的靈魂讓我們失望 。
we have to make this happen , and we can do it with the modern communications that ted has introduced .	我們必須讓這一切發生 , 並且我們可以利用ted所介紹的現代溝通 。
already i've been tremendously heartened at the response of all our partners .	我已經對我們所有伴侶的反應很大 。
in singapore , we have a group going to use the charter to heal divisions recently that have sprung up in singaporean society , and some members of the parliament want to implement it politically .	在新加坡 , 我們有一群人 , 會用charter來治癒分裂 , 最近才在新加坡社會中興起 , 有些國會的成員想要在政治上實施它 。
in malaysia , there is going to be an art exhibition in which leading artists are going to be taking people , young people , and showing them that compassion also lies at the root of all art .	在馬來西亞 , 將會有一個展覽 , 主導藝術家將要帶領人、年輕人 , 並告訴他們 , 同情也是所有藝術的根源 。
throughout europe , the muslim communities are holding events and discussions , are discussing the centrality of compassion in islam and in all faiths .	在整個歐洲 , 穆斯林社區正在舉辦活動和討論 , 討論伊斯蘭的核心 , 以及所有信仰 。
but it can't stop there . it can't stop with the launch .	但它不能停在那裡 , 它不能停下來 。
religious teaching , this is where we've gone so wrong , concentrating solely on believing abstruse doctrines .	宗教教導 , 這是我們錯了的地方 , 唯一集中在相信abststrustrines 。
religious teaching must always lead to action .	宗教教學一定會導致行動 。
and i intend to work on this till my dying day .	我本來是想在這個臨終的日子裡工作 。
and i want to continue with our partners to do two things educate and stimulate compassionate thinking .	我想繼續跟伴侶一起做兩件事 , 教育和刺激同情思考 。
education because we've so dropped out of compassion .	教育是因為我們從同情心中退縮 。
people often think it simply means feeling sorry for somebody .	人們常認為這只是對某人感到抱歉的意思 。
but of course you don't understand compassion if you're just going to think about it .	但 , 當然 , 如果你想的話 , 你不會了解同情心 。
you also have to do it .	你也必須這麼做 。
i want them to get the media involved because the media are crucial in helping to dissolve some of the stereotypical views we have of other people , which are dividing us from one another .	我希望他們能得到媒體參與 , 因為媒體是很重要的 , 協助解決我們對其他人有的刻板印象 , 把我們從彼此身上分離出來 。
the same applies to educators .	同一個教育家也適用於教育家 。
i'd like youth to get a sense of the dynamism , the dynamic and challenge of a compassionate lifestyle .	我希望青年能感受到動態的感覺 , 動態和挑戰同情的生活方式 。
and also see that it demands acute intelligence , not just a gooey feeling .	此外 , 它也要求有敏銳的智能 , 不單只是個美好的感覺 。
i'd like to call upon scholars to explore the compassionate theme in their own and in other people's traditions .	我想打電話給學者 , 去探索他們自己的同情心 , 以及在其他人的傳統中 。
and perhaps above all , to encourage a sensitivity about uncompassionate speaking , so that because people have this charter , whatever their beliefs or lack of them , they feel empowered to challenge uncompassionate speech , disdainful remarks from their religious leaders , their political leaders , from the captains of industry .	最重要的是 , 鼓勵一個對不停的說話的敏感性 , 如此一來 , 因為人們有這個主意 , 或缺乏他們的信仰 , 他們覺得有能力去挑戰不舒服的言論 , 不論他們的宗教領袖 , 政治領袖 , 他們的政治領袖 , 來自產業的總部 。
because we can change the world , we have the ability .	因為我們可以改變世界 , 我們有能力 。
i would never have thought of putting the charter online .	我從來沒有想過要把charter放在網路上 。
i was still stuck in the old world of a whole bunch of boffins sitting together in a room and issuing yet another arcane statement .	我仍然困在舊世界裡 , 一群人坐在一間房間裡 , 還在說另一個阿卡內語 。
and ted introduced me to a whole new way of thinking and presenting ideas .	ted向我介紹一個全新的思維和展示想法 。
because that is what is so wonderful about ted .	因為這是ted的美妙之處 。
in this room , all this expertise , if we joined it all together , we could change the world .	在這間房間裡 , 所有的專業知識 , 如果我們一起加入 , 我們就能改變世界 。
and of course the problems sometimes seem insuperable .	當然 , 問題有時似乎是很不可思議的 。
but i'd just like to quote , finish at the end with a reference to a british author , an oxford author whom i don't quote very often , c . s . lewis .	但最後 , 我想引用一句話 , 用英國作者來結束 , 牛津作家 , 我不常引用我說的 , c.路易斯 。
but he wrote one thing that stuck in my mind ever since i read it when i was a schoolgirl .	但他寫了一句話 , 自從我還是個學童時 , 我就讀了這句話 。
it's in his book " the four loves . "	在他的書《四個愛》中 。
he said that he distinguished between erotic love , when two people gaze , spellbound , into each other's eyes .	他說 , 他在愛情之間分辨出 , 當兩個人凝視、拼字、對方的眼睛 。
and then he compared that to friendship , when two people stand side by side , as it were , shoulder to shoulder , with their eyes fixed on a common goal .	然後他比較友誼 , 當兩個人站在一旁 , 肩膀肩膀肩膀肩膀 , 雙眼固定在共同的目標上 。
we don't have to fall in love with each other , but we can become friends .	我們不需要互相愛 , 但我們能成為朋友 。
and i am convinced .	我深信 。
i felt it very strongly during our little deliberations at vevey , that when people of all different persuasions come together , working side by side for a common goal , differences melt away .	我覺得在我們在vevey的小小決心時 , 非常強烈的感覺 , 當各種不同的說服的人聚在一起 , 一起工作 , 一邊是共同的目標 , 差異融化了 。
and we learn amity .	我們學到了 「 雄性 」 。
and we learn to live together and to get to know one another .	我們學會一起生活 , 認識彼此 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝 。
david macaulay relives the winding and sometimes surreal journey toward the completion of rome antics , his illustrated homage to the historic city .	davidmacaulay重建了風 , 有時超現實的旅程 , 前往羅馬的競爭 , 他對歷史的城市感到敬畏 。
macarthur grant , art , arts , book , cities , communication , culture , design , entertainment , humor , storytelling	macarthurgant , 藝術、藝術、城市、城市、溝通、文化、設計、娛樂、幽默、說故事 。
i draw to better understand things .	我畫出更好的理解事物 。
sometimes i make a lot of drawings and i still don't understand what it is i'm drawing .	有時我會畫很多畫 , 我仍然不了解我在畫什麼 。
those of you who are comfortable with digital stuff and even smug about that relationship might be amused to know that the guy who is best known for " the way things work , " while preparing for part of a panel for called understanding , spent two days trying to get his laptop to communicate with his new cd burner .	那些對數位化事物感到舒適 , 甚至對那段關係感到不舒服 , 知道 「 事物運作 」 最佳的傢伙 , 同時為所謂的理解做準備 , 花了兩天時間 , 試圖用筆記型電腦和他的新cdner交流 。
who knew about extension managers ?	誰知道延伸經理 ?
i've always managed my own extensions so it never even occurred to me to read the instructions , but i did finally figure it out . i had to figure it out , because along with the invitation came the frightening reminder that there would be no projector , so bringing those carousels would no longer be necessary but some alternate form of communication would .	我一直在管理自己的延伸 , 讓我從來沒有想過要讀指令 , 但我終於明白了 。 因為 , 邀請來的時候 , 提醒會不會有投影機 , 所以 , 帶著這些帶子不再是必要的 , 而是其他形式的溝通方式 。
now , i could talk about something that i'm known for , something that would be particularly appropriate for many of the more technically minded people here , or i could talk about something i really care about .	現在 , 我可以談我所知的事物 , 特別適合在座的許多人 , 或我可以談論我真正關心的東西 。
i decided to go with the latter .	我決定用拉丁文字來做 。
i'm going to talk about rome .	我要來談談羅馬 。
now , why would i care about rome , particularly ?	我為什麼要特別關心羅馬 ?
well , i went to rhode island school of design in the second half of the '60s to study architecture .	嗯 , 我去了rhode島設計學院 , 在六○年代的二半研究建築 。
i was lucky enough to spend my last year , my fifth year , in rome as a student . it changed my life .	我很幸運 , 去年我五年在羅馬擔任學生 , 這改變了我的生活 。
not the least reason was the fact that i had spent those first four years living at home , driving into risd everyday , driving back .	最不理由是 , 我花了前四年在家裡 , 每天開車回來 。
i missed the '60s . i read about them ; i understand they were pretty interesting . i missed them , but i did spend that extraordinary year in rome , and it's a place that is never far from my mind .	我錯過了60年代 。 我讀了他們 。 我知道他們很有趣 。 我錯過了他們 , 但我確實花了那一年在羅馬 , 那是我從來沒有想過的地方 。
so , whenever given an opportunity , i try to do something in it or with it or for it .	所以 , 每當有機會 , 我都試著用它或它來做點什麼 。
i also make drawings to help people understand things .	我也畫畫圖 , 來協助人們了解事物 。
things that i want them to believe i understand .	我希望他們相信我所了解的事物 。
and that's what i do as an illustrator , that's my job .	這就是我作為一個插畫家的做法 , 那是我的工作 。
so , i'm going to show you some pictures of rome .	我要給你們看一些羅馬的照片 。
i've made a lot of drawings of rome over the years .	多年來 , 我畫了許多羅馬的畫作 。
these are just drawings of rome . i get back as often as possible i need to .	這些只是羅馬的畫作 , 我盡可能回來 。
all different materials , all different styles , all different times , drawings from sketchbooks looking at the details of rome .	各式各樣的材料 , 各式各樣的風格 , 各式各樣的草圖 , 從羅馬的細節來看 。
part of the reason i'm showing you these is that it sort of helps illustrate this process i go through of trying to figure out what it is i feel about rome and why i feel it .	我向你們展示這些原因的部分原因是 , 它可以幫助我解釋我經歷過的這個過程 , 試圖找出我對羅馬的感受 , 以及我為什麼感受到它 。
these are sketches of some of the little details .	這些是一些小細節的草圖 。
rome is a city full of surprises .	羅馬是個充滿驚喜的城市 。
i mean , we're talking about unusual perspectives , we're talking about narrow little winding streets that suddenly open into vast , sundrenched piazzas never , though , piazzas that are not humanly scaled .	我的意思是 , 我們談的是不尋常的觀點 , 我們談的是狹窄的小小的風向 , 突然間 , 變成浩瀚的陽光 , 卻從未被人認可過 。
part of the reason for that is the fact that they grew up organically .	原因之一是他們在有機成長的過程中 。
that amazing juxtaposition of old and new , the bits of light that come down between the buildings that sort of create a map that's traveling above your head of usually blue especially in the summer compared to the map that you would normally expect to see of conventional streets .	那種古老和新事物的驚人組合 , 那些在建築物之間的光線 , 有點像在你頭頂上穿著藍色的地圖 , 特別是在夏天 , 你通常會期待看到傳統的街道 。
and i began to think about how i could communicate this in book form .	我開始思考如何用書的形式來溝通 。
how could i share my sense of rome , my understanding of rome ?	我該如何分享我對羅馬的理解 ?
and i'm going to show you a bunch of dead ends , basically .	基本上 , 我要給你們看一堆死去的終點 。
the primary reason for all these dead ends is when if you're not quite sure where you're going , you're certainly not going to get there with any kind of efficiency .	這些死者的主要原因是 , 如果你不太確定你要去哪裡 , 你絕對不會得到任何效率 。
here's a little map . and i thought of maps at the beginning ; maybe i should just try and do a little atlas of my favorite streets and connections in rome .	這是一張小小的地圖 , 我一開始就想著地圖 , 也許我應該在羅馬最喜歡的街道和連結 。
and here's a line of text that actually evolves from the exhaust of a scooter zipping across the page .	這裡有一句文字 , 實際上是從一部雕刻者在頁面中演化出來的 。
here that same line of text wraps around a fountain in an illustration that can be turned upside down and read both ways .	在這裡 , 同樣的文字在噴泉周圍圍圍繞著一個插圖 , 可以被顛倒 , 同時閱讀兩種方式 。
maybe that line of text could be a story to help give some human aspect to this .	也許那條文字可能是一個故事 , 來協助給人類一些面向 。
maybe i should get away from this map completely , and really be honest about wanting to show you my favorite bits and pieces of rome and simply kick a soccer ball in the air which happens in so many of the squares in the city and let it bounce off of things . and i'll simply explain what each of those things is that the soccer ball hits .	也許我應該完全脫離這張地圖 , 誠實地說我最愛的部分 , 羅馬的一小部分 , 只能在空中踢一顆足球 , 讓它從城市中彈出來 。 我簡單地解釋一下 , 足球撞擊的每一件事 。
that seemed like a sort of a cheap shot .	這看起來像是一張便宜的照片 。
but even though i just started this presentation , this is not the first thing that i tried to do and i was getting sort of desperate .	但即使我剛開始這個簡報 , 這不是我嘗試做的第一件事 , 我也變得有點絕望 。
eventually , i realized that i had really no content that i could count on , so i decided to move towards packaging .	最終 , 我了解到 , 我沒有什麼內容可以算數 , 所以我決定要繼續包裝 。
i mean , it seems to work for a lot of things .	我的意思是 , 似乎很多事情都行得通 。
so i thought a little box set of four small books might do the trick .	所以我想一組四本小書的小盒子 , 可能是把戲 。
but one of the ideas that emerged from some of those sketches was the notion of traveling through rome in different vehicles at different speeds in order to show the different aspects of rome .	但其中一個點子是從一些草圖出現的 , 就是旅行在不同的交通中 , 以不同的速度 , 來呈現羅馬的不同面向 。
sort of an overview of rome and the plan that you might see from a dirigible .	有點像是羅馬的過度審查和你可能從一個多樣化的計劃 。
quick snapshots of things you might see from a speeding motor scooter , and very slow walking through rome , you might be able to study in more detail some of the wonderful surfaces and whatnot that you come across .	很快的 , 你可能從一個速度的摩托車上看到的東西 , 很慢的走過羅馬 , 你可能可以更細微地研究一些奇妙的表面 , 不管你會碰到什麼 。
anyways , i went back to the dirigible notion .	總之 , 我回到了可行的觀點 。
went to alberto santosdumont .	去了alberto聖誕節 。
found one of his dirigibles that had enough dimensions so i could actually use it as a scale that i would then juxtapose with some of the things in rome .	他找到了一台有足夠維度的潛水裝置 , 讓我可以把它當作我在羅馬的一些東西 , 將它與羅馬的一些東西結合在一起 。
this thing would be flying over or past or be parked in front of , but it would be like having a ruler sort of travel through the pages without being a ruler .	這東西會飛越過去 , 或被停在前面 , 但它會好像有一條規則穿越頁面 , 而不是規則 。
not that you know how long number 11 actually is , but you would be able to compare number 11 against the pantheon with number 11 against the baths of caracalla , and so on and so forth . if you were interested .	不是因為你知道11號的確有多長 , 但你能和11號和卡薩拉浴場相比 , 等等 。 如果你有興趣的話 。
this is beatrix . she has a dog named ajax , she has purchased a dirigible a small dirigible she's assembling the structure , ajax is sniffing for holes in the balloon before they set off .	這是beatrix 。 她有一隻叫ajax的狗 , 她買了一條很可怕的小方塊 , 她組裝了這個結構 , ajax在氣球上裝滿孔子 。
she launches this thing above the spanish steps and sets off for an aerial tour of the city .	她在西班牙步道上發射了這個東西 , 為城市的航行設立了空中旅行 。
over the spanish steps we go .	跨越西班牙步驟 。
a nice way to show that river , that stream sort of pouring down the hill .	一個好方法可以展示河流 , 河流有點像是在山丘上倒下 。
unfortunately , just across the road from it or quite close by is the column of marcus aurelius , and the diameter of the dirigible makes an impression , as you can see , as she starts trying to read the story that spirals around the column of marcus aurelius gets a little too close , nudges it .	不幸的是 , 走在路上 , 或很靠近馬可•奧里斯的柱子裡 , 神聖的直徑使得你印象深刻 , 如你所見 , 當她開始嘗試閱讀馬可.阿里斯周圍的故事時 , 馬可.阿里斯的圓柱變得太近了 , 引發它 。
this gives me a chance to suggest to you the structure of the column of marcus aurelius , which is really no more than a pile of quarters high thick quarters . over the piazza of saint ignacio , completely ruining the symmetry , but that aside a spectacular place to visit .	這讓我有機會向各位建議馬可•奧里斯的結構 , 其實這不是一堆高厚的四分之一 。 在聖烏干達的廣場中 , 完全破壞了對稱 , 但那是非常壯觀的地方 。
a spectacular framework , inside of which you see , usually , extraordinary blue sky .	一個非常壯觀的框架 , 通常你看到的 , 藍天是非凡的 。
over the pantheon and the 26foot diameter oculus .	在萬神殿和第26英尺的直徑奧洛斯 。
she parks her dirigible , lowers the anchor rope and climbs down for a closer look inside .	她停下來 , 把椅子降低 , 向下爬 , 靠近一點看內部 。
the text here is right side and upside down so that you are forced to turn the book around , and you can see it from ground point of view and from her point of view looking in the hole , getting a different kind of perspective , moving you around the space . particularly appropriate in a building that can contain perfectly a sphere dimensions of the diameter being the same as the distance from the center of the floor to the center of the oculus .	這裡的文字是對的 , 向下顛倒 , 讓你可以把書轉過來 , 從地面和她的觀點來看 , 從她的角度來看 , 得到不同的觀點 , 讓你在太空中移動 。 尤其是對的 , 在一棟建築物中 , 直徑的角度完全相同 , 直徑與地板的中心相同 。
unfortunately for her , the anchor line gets tangled around the feet of some boy scouts who are visiting the pantheon , and they are immediately yanked out and given an extraordinary but terrifying tour of some of the domes of rome , which would , from their point of view , naturally be hanging upside down .	不幸的是 , 對她來說 , 安排線會圍繞著一些男孩的尖叫 , 他們馬上就被大叫 , 給予了一團不可思議的 , 但很恐怖的一環 , 從他們的角度來看 , 自然就會被粉碎 。
they bail out as soon as they get to the top of saint ivo , that little spiral structure you see there .	一旦他們到了聖艾佛的頂端 , 你可以看到那個小小的螺旋結構 。
she continues on her way over piazza navona .	她繼續走在拉雅茲納佛納的路上 。
notices a lot of activity at the tre scalini restaurant , is reminded that it is lunchtime and she's hungry .	注意到在trestrepalini餐廳裡有很多活動 , 被提醒它是午餐時間 , 她很餓 。
they keep on motoring towards the campo de' fiori , which they soon reach . ajax the dog is put in a basket and lowered with a list of food into the marketplace , which flourishes there until about one in the afternoon , and then is completely removed and doesn't appear again until six or seven the following morning .	牠們不斷地移動到柬埔寨的功效 , 牠們很快就會接觸到 。 阿傑克斯把狗放進一個籃子裡 , 把食物放進市場中 , 直到下午大約一個人 , 然後完全被移除 , 直到凌晨六點 , 直到第七點 。
anyway , the pooch gets back to the dirigible with the stuff .	總之 , 口味會回歸到這些東西的寬度 。
unfortunately , when she goes to unwrap the prosciutto , ajax makes a lunge for it .	不幸的是 , 當她去解開這個原則時 , ajax會為它做個午餐 。
she's managed to save the prosciutto , but in the process she loses the tablecloth , which you can see flying away in the upper lefthand corner .	她成功拯救了原住民 , 但在她失去桌布的過程中 , 你可以看到在左上角飛走 。
they continue without their tablecloth , looking for a place to land this thing so that they can actually have lunch .	他們沒有桌布 , 尋找一個地方降落這個東西 , 讓他們可以吃午餐 。
they eventually discover a huge wall that's filled with small holes , ideal for docking a dirigible because you've got a place to tie up .	他們終於發現了一道巨大的牆 , 充滿了小洞 , 理想地點 , 因為你有一個地方可以綁在一起 。
turns out to be the exterior wall that part of it that remains of the coliseum , so they park themselves there and have a terrific lunch and have a spectacular view .	結果發現 , 這裡的外部牆 , 留在哥倫比亞的那一部分 , 所以他們停在那裡 , 吃了一頓很棒的午餐 , 也有很壯觀的景象 。
at the end of lunch , they untie the anchor , they set off through the baths of caracalla and over the walls of the city and then an abandoned gatehouse and decide to take one more look at the pyramid of cestius , which has this lightning rod on top .	午餐結束時 , 他們解開了教堂 , 他們在城市的牆壁上擺脫了卡拉拉 , 然後是廢棄的門廊 , 決定再看一看cestius的金字塔 , 上面有這條粗糙的屋頂 。
unfortunately , that's a problem: they get a little too close , and when you're in a dirigible you have to be very careful about spikes .	不幸的是 , 這是個問題:它們太靠近了 , 而當你身處一個可憐的靈感時 , 你必須非常小心 。
so that sort of brings her little story to a conclusion .	所以 , 這種故事帶給她一個結論 。
marcello , on the other hand , is sort of a lazy guy , but he's not due at work until about noon .	另一方面 , 瑪賽羅是個懶惰的傢伙 , 但他不是在工作直到上午才開始 。
so , the alarm goes off and it's five to 12 or so .	所以 , 警報開始了 , 五到十二 。
he gets up , leaps onto his scooter , races through the city past the church of santa maria della pace , down the alleys , through the streets that tourists may be wandering through , disturbing the quiet backstreet life of rome at every turn .	他走上去 , 躍進了他的樂團 , 穿越城市的種族 , 穿越了聖塔瑪麗亞•德拉斯的教堂 , 穿越了遊客的街道 , 可能每一輪都穿越羅馬的安靜背景 。
that speed with which he is moving , i hope i have suggested in this little image , which , again , can be turned around and read from both sides because there's text on the bottom and text on the top , one of which is upside down in this image .	他在移動的速度 , 我希望我建議這張小圖片 , 同樣地 , 可以從兩側轉過來 , 因為在底部和文字上有文字 , 其中一個是顛倒在這張圖片上 。
so , he keeps on moving , approaching an unsuspecting waiter who is trying to deliver two plates of linguine in a delicate white wine clam sauce to diners who are sitting at a table just outside of a restaurant in the street .	所以 , 他繼續移動 , 接近一間不懷疑的服務生 , 試圖在一片精緻的白色酒杯中發出兩塊口語 , 來吃飯 , 讓他們坐在餐廳外面的餐廳 。
waiter catches on , but it's too late .	等候會繼續下去 , 但太遲了 。
and marcello keeps moving in his scooter .	馬賽羅在他的樂團中繼續移動 。
everything he sees from this point on is slightly affected by the linguine , but keeps on moving because this guy's got a job to do .	他所看到的一切都稍微受到語言影響 , 但繼續移動 , 因為這傢伙有工作要做 。
removes some scaffolding . one of the reasons rome remains the extraordinary place it is that because of scaffolding and the determination to maintain the fabric , it is a city that continues to grow and adapt to the needs of the particular time in which it finds itself , or we find it .	除去一些支架 。 羅馬仍然是非凡的地方之一 , 就是因為支架和決心要維持布料 , 城市持續成長和適應特定時間的需求 , 或我們找到它 。
right through the piazza della rotonda , in front of the pantheon again wreaking havoc and finally getting to work .	透過pazadellrotonda , 在萬神殿前 , 再次震撼的哈佛 , 終於成功了 。
marcello , as it turns out , is the driver of the number 64 bus , and if you've been on the number 64 bus , you know that it's driven with the same kind of exuberance as marcello demonstrated on his scooter .	結果發現 , 64輛巴士的司機是64輛巴士的司機 , 如果你曾經在64輛巴士上 , 你知道它的驅動力是馬爾洛在他的摩托車上展示的 。
and finally carletto . you see his apartment in the upper lefthand corner .	最後 , 卡莉托 , 你可以看到他在左上角的公寓 。
he's looking at his table ; he's planning to propose this evening to his girlfriend of 40 years , and he wants it to be perfect .	他在看他的桌子 , 他計劃要向他的女友提出這個晚上 , 四十年來 , 他希望他能做到完美 。
he's got candles out , he's got flowers in the middle and he's trying to figure out where to put the plates and the glasses .	他拿著蠟燭 , 中間有花 , 他想辦法把板子和玻璃放在哪裡 。
but he's not happy ; something's wrong .	但他並不快樂 ; 有些問題 。
the phone rings anyway , he's called to the palazzo .	總之 , 電話響了 , 他被叫到palazo 。
he saunters he saunters at a good clip , but as compared to all the traveling we've just seen , he's sauntering .	他在好的短片中航行 , 但和我們剛才看到的所有旅行相比 , 他在飛行 。
everybody knows carletto , because he's in entertainment , actually ; he's in television .	大家都知道carleto , 因為他在娛樂中 , 事實上 , 他在電視中 。
he's actually in television repair , which is why people know him .	他其實是在電視修復中 , 這就是為什麼人們知道他 。
so they all have his number .	所以他們都有他的數字 。
he arrives at the palazzo , arrives at the big front door .	他抵達palazo , 抵達大門 。
enters the courtyard and talks to the custodian , who tells him that there's been a disaster in the palazzo ; nobody's tvs are working and there's a big soccer game coming up , and the crowd is getting a little restless and a little nervous .	進入法庭 , 和顧客交談 , 他告訴他 , 在巴拉索有場災難 ; 沒有人的電視在工作 , 那裡有一場大足球比賽 , 群眾變得有點無休 , 有點緊張 。
he goes down to the basement and starts to check the wiring , and then gradually works his way up to the top of the building , apartment by apartment , checking every television , checking every connection , hoping to find out what this problem is .	他走到地下室 , 開始檢查航線 , 然後逐漸地在建築的頂端工作 , 公寓的公寓 , 檢查每個電視節目、檢查每個連結 , 希望找出問題是什麼 。
he works his way up , finally , the grand staircase and then a smaller staircase until he reaches the attic .	他在路上工作 , 終於 , 大樓 , 接著樓梯變小 , 直到他抵達政治 。
he opens the window of the attic , of course , and there's a tablecloth wrapped around the building's television antenna .	他打開了閣樓的窗戶 , 當然 , 還有一張桌布圍繞著建築的電視天線 。
he removes it , the problems are solved , everybody in the palazzo is happy .	他移除它 , 問題解決了 , 在palazo的每個人都很高興 。
and of course , he also solves his own problem .	當然 , 他也解決他自己的問題 。
all he has to do now , with a perfect table , is wait for her to arrive .	他現在要做的 , 用一個完美的桌子 , 等著她到來 。
that was the first attempt , but it didn't seem substantial enough to convey whatever it was i wanted to convey about rome .	那是第一個嘗試 , 但看來不太重要 , 足以傳達我對羅馬的意見 。
so i thought , well , i'll just do piazzas , and i'll get inside and underneath and i'll show these things growing and show why they're shaped the way they are and so on .	所以我想 , 嗯 , 嗯 , 我會在裡面 , 在下面 , 我會展示這些東西的成長 , 展示它們的形狀 , 等等 。
and then i thought , that's too complicated . no , i'll just take my favorite bits and pieces and i'll put them inside the pantheon but keep the scale , so you can see the top of sant'ivo and the pyramid of cestius and the tempietto of bramante all side by side in this amazing space .	然後我想 , 這太複雜了 。 不 , 我會把我最愛的部分和碎片放進萬神殿裡 , 保持尺度 , 這樣你就可以看見聖誕節的最高層 , 及布拉曼特的金字塔 , 全側側側側的布拉曼人 。
now that's one drawing , so i thought maybe it's time for piranesi to meet escher .	這是一幅畫 , 所以我認為 , 也許是時候piranesi去見escher的時候了 。
you see that i'm beginning to really lose control here and also hope .	你可以看到 , 我開始失去控制權 , 也開始失去希望 。
there's a very thin blue line of exhaust that sort of runs through this thing that would be kind of the trail that holds it all together .	有一條非常細微的藍色線 , 可以穿越這條路 , 將它包住在一起的軌道 。
then i thought , " wait a minute , what am i doing ? "	然後我想: 「 等等 , 我在做什麼 ? 」
a book is not only a neat way of collecting and storing information , it's a series of layers .	一本書不只是收集和儲存資訊的好方法 , 它是一系列的層次 。
i mean , you always peel one layer off another ; we think of them as pages , doing it a certain way .	我的意思是 , 你總是把一層拿下來 , 我們把他們當成一頁 , 做某一頁 。
but think of them as layers . i mean , rome is a place of layers horizontal layers , vertical layers and i thought , well just peeling off a page would allow me to if i got you thinking about it the right way would allow me to sort of show you the depth of layers .	但 , 把它們想成是層層 。 我的意思是 , 羅馬是層層層層層 , 垂直層層次 , 我想 , 剛剛脫下一頁會允許我去思考 , 如果我用正確的方式來表達層層次的深度 。
the stucco on the walls of most of the buildings in rome covers the scars ; the scars of centuries of change as these structures have been adapted rather than being torn down .	羅馬大部分建築物的牆壁都遮住了傷疤 , 數世紀以來的傷疤 , 隨著這些結構的適應 , 而不是被摧毀 。
if i do a foldout page on the lefthand side and let you just unfold it , you see behind it what i mean by scar tissue .	如果我在左手邊做一個摺疊頁 , 讓你們看看它背後的我所謂的疤組織 。
you can see that in 1635 , it became essential to make smaller windows because the bad guys were coming or whatever .	你可以看到 , 在1635年 , 製造較小的窗戶是必要的 , 因為壞人要來了 。
adaptations all get buried under the stucco .	所有的改造都被埋在黏土之下 。
i could peel out a page of this palazzo to show you what's going on inside of it .	我可以把這一頁拼湊出來 , 讓大家看看裡面發生什麼事 。
but more importantly , i could also show you what it looks like at the corner of one of those magnificent buildings with all the massive stone blocks , or the fake stone blocks done with brick and stucco , which is more often the case .	但更重要的是 , 我也能向你們展示在那些巨大的建築物的角落中 , 其中一個巨大的石塊 , 或者是假的石塊 , 用磚塊和石塊做成 , 比較常發生 。
so it becomes slightly threedimensional .	所以它變得有點像三度空間 。
i could take you down one of those narrow little streets into one of those surprising piazzas by using a double gate fold double foldout page which , if you were like me reading a popup book as a child , you hopefully stick your head into .	我可以把你們其中一條狹窄的小街 , 帶到一個令人驚訝的小區塊裡 , 用兩層的摺疊頁 , 如果你跟我一樣 , 你希望你會把你的頭伸進去 。
you wrap the pages around your head and are in that piazza for that brief period of time .	你把你的腦袋包裹在那段短暫的短暫時間內 。
and i've really not done anything much more complicated than make foldout pages .	我真的沒有做任何更複雜的事情 , 比做摺疊頁更複雜 。
but then i thought , maybe i could be simpler here .	但接著我就想 , 也許我可以更簡單一點 。
let's look at the pantheon and the piazza della rotonda in front of it .	咱們來看看萬神殿和前面的pazadellrotonda
here's a book completely wide open .	這本書完全是開放的 。
ok , if i don't open the book the whole way , if i just open it 90 degrees , we're looking down the front of the pantheon , and we're looking sort of at the top , more or less down on the square .	好 , 如果我完全不打開這本書 , 如果我打開這本書 , 我們就從萬神廟的前面看下面 , 我們看到的正方形上方 , 或更少的下方 。
and if i turn the book the other way , we're looking across the square at the front of the pantheon .	如果我換了另一本書 , 我們就會在萬神廟的前面 。
no foldouts , no tricks just a book that isn't open the whole way .	沒有摺疊 , 沒有任何詭計 , 只是一本書 , 完全沒有打開整個過程 。
that seemed promising . i thought , maybe i'll do it inside and i can even combine the foldouts with the only partially opened book .	這看來很有前景 。 我想 , 也許我會在裡面做 , 我甚至可以把摺疊品和唯一一部分開放的書結合在一起 。
so we get inside the pantheon and it grows and so on and so forth .	於是我們進入了萬神廟 , 開始成長等等 。
and i thought , maybe i'm on the right track , but it sort of lost its human quality .	我想 , 也許我在正確的軌道上 , 但它有點像失去了它的人類特質 。
so i went back to the notion of story , which is always a good thing to have if you're trying to get people to pay attention to a book and pick up information along the way .	所以 , 我回到故事的概念 , 如果你想要讓人們注意到一本書 , 並在路上取得資訊 。
" pigeon's progress " struck me as a catchy title .	「 鴿子的進步 」 讓我陷入困境 。
if it was a homing pigeon , it would be called " homer's odyssey . "	如果它是一顆熱鴿子 , 它會被稱為 「 作家的奧迪斯西 」 。
but it was the journey of the . . .	但那是這趟旅程 。
i mean , if a title works , use it . but it would be a journey that went through rome and showed all the things that i like about rome .	我的意思是 , 如果一個標題可以用 , 但這將會是一趟旅程 , 穿越羅馬的旅程 , 展現我喜歡羅馬的一切 。
it's a pigeon sitting on top of a church .	這是一個鴿子坐在教堂的頂端 。
goes off during the day and does normal pigeon stuff . comes back , the whole place is covered with scaffolding and green netting and there's no way this pigeon can get home .	白天就離開 , 做正常的鴿子 。 回來 , 整個地方都被支架和綠色網絡覆蓋 , 這樣鴿子無法回家 。
so it's a homeless pigeon now and it's going to have to find another place to live , and that allows me to go through my catalog of favorite things , and we start with the tall ones and so on .	所以 , 現在是無家可歸的鴿子 , 要找到另一個地方來居住 , 這讓我能穿越我最愛的東西的目錄 , 我們從最高的那一開始 。
maybe it has to go back and live with family members ; that's not always a good thing , but it does sort of bring pigeons together again .	也許它必須回到家族成員的生活 , 這不一定是件好事 , 但它確實會把鴿子帶回來 。
and i thought , that's sort of interesting , but maybe there's a person who should be involved in this in some way .	我心想 , 這有點有趣 , 但也許有一個人應該用某種方式參與其中 。
so i kind of came up with this old guy who spends his life looking after sick pigeons .	所以我想出了一個老傢伙 , 他一生都在照顧生病的鴿子 。
he'll go anywhere to get them dangerous places and whatnot and they become really friends with this guy , and learn to do tricks for him and entertain him at lunchtime and stuff like that .	他會去任何地方 , 讓他們變得危險 , 什麼也不 , 他們會成為這個傢伙的朋友 , 學會為他招戲 , 在午餐時間和其他東西娛樂 。
there's a real bond that develops between this old man and these pigeons .	在這個老人和這些鴿子之間 , 有一個真正的連結 。
but unfortunately he gets sick . he gets really sick at the end of the story .	但 , 不幸的是 , 他生病了 。 他在故事的結尾就生病了 。
he's taught them to spell his name , which is aldo .	他被教導要他們拼字 , 也就是aldo 。
they show up one day after three or four days of not seeing him he lives in this little garret and they spell his name and fly around .	他們在三、四天後出席 , 沒有見到他住在這個小小的garret , 他們會說出他的名字 , 四處飛來飛去 。
and he finally gets enough strength together to climb up the ladder onto the roof , and all the pigeons , a la red balloon , are there waiting for him and they carry him off over the walls of the city .	他終於得到足夠的力量 , 爬上梯子的屋頂 , 所有的鴿子 , 紅色的氣球 , 在那裡等著他 , 他們把他帶到城市的牆壁上 。
and i forgot to mention this: whenever he lost a pigeon , he would take that pigeon out beyond the walls of the city .	我忘了提到這一點:只要他失去了鴿子 , 他就會把鴿子帶到城市的牆壁之外 。
in the old roman custom , the dead were never buried within the walls .	在古老的羅馬習俗中 , 死者從未埋在牆壁中 。
and i thought that's a really cheery story .	我覺得這是一個非常便宜的故事 。
. that's really going to go a long way .	真的很長一段時間 。
so anyway , i went through . . . and again , if packaging doesn't work and if the stories aren't going anywhere , i just come up with titles and hope that a title will sort of kick me off in the right direction .	總之 , 我經歷了...再一次 , 如果包裝不行 , 如果故事不在任何地方 , 我就想出一個標題 , 希望一個標題可以把我踢在正確的方向上 。
and sometimes it does focus me enough and i'll even do a title page .	有時 , 它會專注在我身上 , 我甚至會做一個標題 。
so , these are all title pages that eventually led me to the solution i settled on , which is the story of a young woman who sends a message on a homing pigeon she lives outside the walls of the city of rome to someone in the city .	所以 , 這些都是標題的頁面 , 最終引領我進入我安定的解決方案 , 故事是一位年輕女子 , 她在羅馬城外傳遞一個訊息 , 她住在羅馬城的牆壁 , 到城市的某人 。
and the pigeon is flying down above the appian way here .	而鴿子正從這邊飛下來 , 飛到這邊 。
you can see the tombs and pines and so on and so forth along the way .	你可以看到墳墓、松鼠等等 。
if you see the red line , you are seeing the trail of the pigeon ; if you don't see the red line , you are the pigeon .	如果你看到紅線 , 你就會看到鴿子的軌跡 ; 如果你看不到紅線 , 你就是鴿子 。
and it becomes necessary and possible , at this point , to try to convey what that sense would be like of flying over the city without actually moving .	在這個時點 , 它變得很必要且有可能 , 試著說服它的感覺 , 它會在沒有移動的城市中會是什麼感覺 。
past the pyramid of cestius these will seem very familiar to you , even if you haven't been to rome recently past the gatehouse .	在凱薩蒂斯的金字塔中 , 這些對你來說是很熟悉的 , 即使你最近沒去過羅馬的大道 。
this is something that's a little bit unusual .	這是有點不尋常的事 。
this pigeon does something that most homing pigeons do not do: it takes the scenic route , which was a device that i felt was necessary to actually extend this book beyond about four pages .	這隻鴿子做了一件最適合的鴿子不做的事:它需要一趟風景的路線 , 這是我覺得很必要的裝置 , 要把這本書延長到四頁以外 。
so , we circle around the coliseum , past the church of santa maria in cosmedin and the temple of hercules towards the river .	所以 , 我們圍繞著哥倫坡 , 過去的聖母瑪麗亞的教堂 , 以及海克力士的神殿 。
we almost collide with the cornice of the palazzo farnese designed by michelangelo , built of stone taken from the coliseum narrow escape .	我們幾乎和palazofrangelo的玉米相撞 , 由米開朗基羅所設計的石頭 , 由哥倫坡逃離 。
we swoop down over the campo de' fiori .	我們在campodefiori上掉下去 。
this is one of those things i show to my students because it's a complete bastardization a denial of any rules of perspective .	這是我向我的學生展示的其中一件事 , 因為這是一個完全的基準 , 完全否認任何的觀點 。
the only rule of perspective that i think matters is if it looks believable , you've succeeded .	我認為唯一重要的觀點是 , 如果它看起來是可信的 , 你就成功了 。
but you try and figure out where the vanishing points meet here ; a couple are on mars and a couple of others in cremona .	但你會試著找出消失點在哪裡 ; 一對夫婦在火星上 , 以及在克里蒙亞的幾個人 。
but into the piazza in front of santa maria della pace , where invariably a soccer game is going on , and we're hit by a soccer ball .	但在聖塔馬尼亞•德拉的前面 , 無可避免的足球賽正在進行 , 我們被足球打擊 。
now this is a terrible illustration of being hit by a soccer ball .	這是一個非常糟糕的圖像 , 由足球打擊 。
i have all the pieces: there's santa maria della pace , there's a soccer ball , there's a little bit of a bird's wing nothing's happening , so i had to rethink it .	我有各式各樣的:聖塔馬里亞•德拉•帕斯 , 有一顆足球 , 有一點點鳥在發生 , 所以我得重新思考一下 。
and if you do want to see santa maria della pace , these books are really flexible , incredibly interactive just turn it around and look at it the other way .	如果你真的想要看到聖誕老人的速度 , 這些書非常靈活 , 非常互動 , 只是轉過來 , 看看它的另一面 。
through the alley , we can see the impact is captured in the red line .	透過巷子 , 我們可以看到這影響是紅線捕捉到的 。
and then bird manages to pull itself together past this medieval tower one of the few remaining medieval towers towards the church of sant'agnese and around the dome looking down into piazza navona which we've already mentioned and seen and flown over a couple of times ; there's the bernini statue of the four rivers and then past the wonderful borromini sant'ivo , stopping just long enough on the 26foot diameter oculus of the pantheon to catch our breath .	之後 , 鳥會自行拉近這座中世紀的高樓 , 少數幾個中世紀的高樓 , 位於聖母峰的教堂 , 周圍的圓頂 , 向下看 , 我們已經提到 , 看到和流過幾次 ; 那裡有柏尼•斯雕像 , 雕像有四個河流 , 然後超越了美麗的布洛明尼西聖母島 , 距離太遠 , 距離我們26公尺長的天堂 。
and then we can swoop inside and around ; and because we're flying , we don't really have to worry about gravity at this particular moment in time , so this drawing can be oriented in any way on the page .	然後我們就可以在裡面掉下來 , 因為我們正在飛翔 , 在這一刻我們不用擔心重力 , 所以這張圖可以以任何方式在頁面上 。
we get a little exuberant as we pass gesu ; it's not surprising to sort of mimic the architecture in this way .	當我們經過gesu時 , 我們會得到一些驚喜 , 這並不令人驚訝 , 以這種方式模仿建築 。
past the wonderful wall filled with the juxtaposition that i was talking about ; beautiful carvings set into the walls above the neon " ristorante " sign , and so on .	經過我剛提到的美麗牆 , 充滿了我所說的混合物 ; 美麗的雕刻設在牆上 , 上面是 「 中風 」 標誌 , 等等 。
and eventually , we arrive at the courtyard of the palazzo , which is our destination .	最終 , 我們到了palazo的庭院 , 是我們的目的 。
straight up through the courtyard into a little window into the attic , where somebody is working at the drawing board .	直接穿過庭院 , 進入一個小窗戶 , 有人在畫板上工作 。
he removes the message from the leg of the bird ; this is what it says .	他把訊息從鳥的腿上移除 , 這是牠說的 。
as we look at the drawing board , we see what he's working on is , in fact , a map of the journey that the pigeon has just taken , and the red line extends through all the sights .	當我們看畫板時 , 我們會看到他正在努力的 , 事實上 , 鴿子的地圖已經拍攝了 , 紅線會延伸到所有視覺 。
and if you want the information , so that we complete this cycle of understanding , all you have to do is read these paragraphs .	如果你想要這些資訊 , 我們就完成了這個理解的循環 , 你只需要閱讀這些範例 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝 。
mit researcher skylar tibbits works on selfassembly the idea that instead of building something , we can create materials that build themselves , much the way a strand of dna zips itself together . it's a big concept at early stages ; tibbits shows us three inthelab projects that hint at what a selfassembling future might look like .	麻省理工學院研究者skylarbbit在自組裝上工作 , 而不是建立某樣東西 , 我們可以創造出一系列dna自己的方式 。 這是個很大的概念 ; tibbit讓我們看到三項 「 自我組裝 」 的項目 , 可以隱藏在自我組裝未來的樣貌 。
skylar tibbits: can we make things that make themselves ?	skylartibbit:我們能否做出製造自己的東西 ?
today i'd like to show you the future of the way we make things .	今天 , 我想向各位展示我們製造東西的方式 。
i believe that soon our buildings and machines will be selfassembling , replicating and repairing themselves .	我相信很快地 , 我們的建築和機器會自我組裝、複製、修復自己 。
so i'm going to show you what i believe is the current state of manufacturing , and then compare that to some natural systems .	所以 , 我要給你們看我相信目前的製造狀態 , 然後將它和一些自然系統做比較 。
so in the current state of manufacturing , we have skyscrapers two and a half years [of assembly time] , 500 , 000 to a million parts , fairly complex , new , exciting technologies in steel , concrete , glass .	所以 , 在目前的製造狀態 , 我們有摩天大樓 , 兩年半的時間 , 五十萬到一百萬個零件 , 相當複雜、新、令人興奮的新技術 , 鋼鐵、混凝土、玻璃 。
we have exciting machines that can take us into space five years [of assembly time] , 2 . 5 million parts .	我們有令人興奮的機器可以帶領我們進入太空五年的時空 , 兩百五十萬個零件 。
but on the other side , if you look at the natural systems , we have proteins that have two million types , can fold in 10 , 000 nanoseconds , or dna with three billion base pairs we can replicate in roughly an hour .	但另一方面 , 如果你看自然系統 , 我們有兩百萬種類型的蛋白質 , 可以在一萬個奈米秒中摺疊 , 或者有三十億個鹼基對 , 我們可以在大約一小時內複製 。
so there's all of this complexity in our natural systems , but they're extremely efficient , far more efficient than anything we can build , far more complex than anything we can build .	在我們的自然系統中 , 所有這些複雜性 , 但它們的效率非常高 , 比任何我們能建造的東西都還要高 , 比任何我們能建造的東西都還要複雜 。
they're far more efficient in terms of energy .	它們比能源更有效率 。
they hardly ever make mistakes .	他們幾乎不會犯錯 。
and they can repair themselves for longevity .	他們可以為自己修復壽命 。
so there's something super interesting about natural systems .	所以 , 關於自然系統有個超級有趣的現象 。
and if we can translate that into our built environment , then there's some exciting potential for the way that we build things .	如果我們可以把它轉化成我們的建築環境 , 那麼 , 我們建造東西的方式有一些令人興奮的潛力 。
and i think the key to that is selfassembly .	我認為這關鍵在於自我組裝 。
so if we want to utilize selfassembly in our physical environment , i think there's four key factors .	所以如果我們想要在我們的實體環境中自行組裝 , 我認為有四個關鍵因素 。
the first is that we need to decode all of the complexity of what we want to build so our buildings and machines .	首先 , 我們需要解碼所有我們想要建造的複雜性 , 以便我們的建築物和機器 。
and we need to decode that into simple sequences basically the dna of how our buildings work .	我們需要把這個編碼成簡單的序列基本上就是我們建築物如何運作的dna
then we need programmable parts that can take that sequence and use that to fold up , or reconfigure .	接著 , 我們需要可編寫的零件 , 可以用那段序列來摺疊 , 或重組 。
we need some energy that's going to allow that to activate , allow our parts to be able to fold up from the program .	我們需要一些能量來啟動 , 使我們的部件能夠從計畫中折疊起來 。
and we need some type of error correction redundancy to guarantee that we have successfully built what we want .	我們需要某種類型的錯誤 , 來確保我們成功地建立了我們想要的 。
so i'm going to show you a number of projects that my colleagues and i at mit are working on to achieve this selfassembling future .	所以 , 我要給你們看一些計畫 , 我的同事和我在麻省理工學院工作 , 來達成這個自我組裝的未來 。
the first two are the macrobot and decibot .	首先是麥克風和決定性機器人 。
so these projects are largescale reconfigurable robots 8 ft . , 12 ft . long proteins .	這些計畫是大規模的可重組的機器人8英尺 , 12英尺長的蛋白質 。
they're embedded with mechanical electrical devices , sensors .	他們嵌入了機械電裝置、感應器 。
you decode what you want to fold up into , into a sequence of angles so negative 120 , negative 120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , negative 120 something like that ; so a sequence of angles , or turns , and you send that sequence through the string .	你將你想要的東西摺疊成一連串的角度 , 以負120、0、0、120、負120、負120 , 類似這樣的東西 。 所以一連串的角度 , 或轉動 , 通過弦 , 將這個序列寄出去 。
each unit takes its message so negative 120 it rotates to that , checks if it got there and then passes it to its neighbor .	每個單位都把訊息傳遞給負面的120 , 只要它到達那裡 , 然後傳遞給鄰居 。
so these are the brilliant scientists , engineers , designers that worked on this project .	這些是傑出的科學家、工程師、設計師 , 研究這個計畫 。
and i think it really brings to light: is this really scalable ?	我認為它真的能帶來光明:這真的是可擴展的嗎 ?
i mean , thousands of dollars , lots of man hours made to make this eightfoot robot .	我的意思是 , 數千美金 , 很多人花時間製作這八英尺的機器人 。
can we really scale this up ? can we really embed robotics into every part ?	我們真的能把這個規模擴大嗎 ? 我們真的能把機器人嵌入每一部分嗎 ?
the next one questions that and looks at passive nature , or passively trying to have reconfiguration programmability .	下一個問題 , 觀察被動的自然 , 或被動地嘗試重新設計程式 。
but it goes a step further , and it tries to have actual computation .	但它又更進一步 , 它嘗試有實際的計算能力 。
it basically embeds the most fundamental building block of computing , the digital logic gate , directly into your parts .	基本上 , 它嵌入了最基本的運算基礎 , 數位邏輯門 , 直接植入你的零件中 。
so this is a nand gate .	這是nandgates 。
you have one tetrahedron which is the gate that's going to do your computing , and you have two input tetrahedrons .	你有一台超載體 , 即將完成你的運算 , 你有兩個輸入電子 。
one of them is the input from the user , as you're building your bricks .	其中一個是使用者的輸入 , 當你在打破你的磚塊時 。
the other one is from the previous brick that was placed .	另外一個是從前所未有的磚塊裡出來的 。
and then it gives you an output in 3d space .	然後它會給你一個3d空間中的輸出 。
so what this means is that the user can start plugging in what they want the bricks to do .	意思是 , 使用者可以開始在他們想要的磚塊上做些什麼 。
it computes on what it was doing before and what you said you wanted it to do .	它計算了它之前的作用以及你所說的你想做的 。
and now it starts moving in threedimensional space so up or down .	現在它開始在三維空間中移動 , 以至於上或下 。
so on the lefthand side , [1 , 1] input equals 0 output , which goes down .	左邊的是1 , 1.1 , 輸入等同等於0的輸出 , 下降了 。
on the righthand side , [0 , 0] input is a 1 output , which goes up .	在右手邊 , 0 , 0的輸入是1的輸出 , 結果會上升 。
and so what that really means is that our structures now contain the blueprints of what we want to build .	這意味著我們的結構現在包含了我們想要建造的藍圖 。
so they have all of the information embedded in them of what was constructed .	所以他們有所有的資訊 , 都嵌入在他們所建立的結構中 。
so that means that we can have some form of selfreplication .	這意味著我們能有某種形式的自我複製 。
in this case i call it selfguided replication , because your structure contains the exact blueprints .	在這個例子中 , 我稱它為自我複製 , 因為你的結構包含了特定的藍圖 。
if you have errors , you can replace a part .	如果你有錯誤 , 你可以取代一個部分 。
all the local information is embedded to tell you how to fix it .	所有當地的資訊都被嵌入去告訴你如何修復它 。
so you could have something that climbs along and reads it and can output at one to one .	所以你可以有一些東西可以爬上去 , 讀它 , 並且可以在一個地方輸出去 。
it's directly embedded ; there's no external instructions .	它是直接嵌入的 ; 沒有外部指示 。
so the last project i'll show is called biased chains , and it's probably the most exciting example that we have right now of passive selfassembly systems .	最後一個專案叫做偏見鏈 , 它可能是我們目前最令人興奮的例子 , 被動自組裝系統 。
so it takes the reconfigurability and programmability and makes it a completely passive system .	所以它需要重組性和程式性 , 讓它成為一個完全被動的系統 。
so basically you have a chain of elements .	基本上你有一連串的元素 。
each element is completely identical , and they're biased .	每個元素都是完全相同的 , 它們是偏見的 。
so each chain , or each element , wants to turn right or left .	所以每一鏈 , 或每一元素都想要轉右轉或左轉 。
so as you assemble the chain , you're basically programming it .	當你組裝鏈時 , 你基本上就是在編寫它 。
you're telling each unit if it should turn right or left .	你告訴每個單位是否該轉右轉或左轉 。
so when you shake the chain , it then folds up into any configuration that you've programmed in so in this case , a spiral , or in this case , two cubes next to each other .	所以 , 當你搖鏈時 , 它就會折疊到任何你編寫的構造中 , 在這個例子中 , 一個螺旋 , 或這個例子中 , 兩個立方體彼此相鄰 。
so you can basically program any threedimensional shape or onedimensional , twodimensional up into this chain completely passively .	基本上 , 你可以將任何三維形狀或立體的形狀編寫成這個鏈 , 完全被動地被動化 。
so what does this tell us about the future ?	所以 , 這告訴我們未來的意義是什麼 ?
i think that it's telling us that there's new possibilities for selfassembly , replication , repair in our physical structures , our buildings , machines .	我認為這告訴我們 , 自我組裝的新可能性 , 複製、修復我們的身體結構、建築物、機器 。
there's new programmability in these parts .	在這些部分有新的可程式性 。
and from that you have new possibilities for computing .	從那之後 , 你就有了新的運算能力 。
we'll have spatial computing .	我們會有空間運算 。
imagine if our buildings , our bridges , machines , all of our bricks could actually compute .	想像一下 , 如果我們的建築物、橋樑、機器 , 我們所有的磚頭都可以計算 。
that's amazing parallel and distributed computing power , new design possibilities .	這是很棒的平行和分散式運算能力 , 新的設計可能性 。
so it's exciting potential for this .	所以這對這個來說是很令人興奮的潛力 。
so i think these projects i've showed here are just a tiny step towards this future , if we implement these new technologies for a new selfassembling world .	所以我認為 , 我剛剛展示的這些項目 , 只是一個小小的步驟 , 如果我們能實現這些新的自我組裝世界的新技術 。
we've been to the moon , we've mapped the continents , we've even been to the deepest point in the ocean twice . what's left for the next generation to explore ? biologist and explorer nathan wolfe suggests this answer: almost everything . and we can start , he says , with the world of the unseeably small .	我們去過月球 , 繪製了大陸 , 我們甚至去過海底深處的深處 。 下一代要探險 ? 生物學家和探險家nathanwolfe提出這個答案:幾乎所有事情 。 我們都可以開始 , 他說 , 帶著不可預期的小世界 。
biodiversity , exploration , microbiology , science	生物多樣性、探索、微生物學、科學、科學 。
nathan wolfe: what's left to explore ?	內森•沃爾夫:要探究什麼 ?
recently i visited beloit , wisconsin .	最近我造訪了威斯康辛 。
and i was there to honor a great 20th century explorer , roy chapman andrews .	我在那裡榮耀一個偉大的20世紀探險家roychapmanandrews 。
during his time at the american museum of natural history , andrews led a range of expeditions to uncharted regions , like here in the gobi desert .	在他在美國自然歷史博物館的期間 , 安德魯斯領導了一系列的探險 , 來到聯合國沙漠 。
he was quite a figure .	他是個人物 。
he was later , it's said , the basis of the indiana jones character .	後來 , 他說 , 印第安娜瓊斯角色的基礎 。
and when i was in beloit , wisconsin , i gave a public lecture to a group of middle school students .	當我在貝洛特 , 威斯康辛時 , 我給了一群中學學生公開演講 。
and i'm here to tell you , if there's anything more intimidating than talking here at ted , it'll be trying to hold the attention of a group of a thousand 12yearolds for a 45minute lecture .	我來這裡是要告訴各位 , 如果ted演講比ted更恐怖的話還要多 , 它會試著把一千二歲的孩子的注意力放在45分鐘的講座上 。
at the end of the lecture they asked a number of questions , but there was one that's really stuck with me since then .	在演講結束後 , 他們問了幾個問題 , 但從那時起 , 有一個問題讓我困住了 。
there was a young girl who stood up , and she asked the question: " where should we explore ? "	有一個年輕女孩站起來 , 她問了一個問題: 「 我們該去哪裡探索 ? 」
i think there's a sense that many of us have that the great age of exploration on earth is over , that for the next generation they're going to have to go to outer space or the deepest oceans in order to find something significant to explore .	我認為 , 我們當中許多人認為 , 地球上偉大的探索時代已經結束了 , 下一代他們必須去外太空或最深的海洋 , 才能找到一個重要的探索 。
but is that really the case ?	但這真的是這樣嗎 ?
is there really nowhere significant for us to explore left here on earth ?	對我們來說 , 有沒有什麼意義可以讓我們在地球上探索 ?
it sort of made me think back to one of my favorite explorers in the history of biology .	它讓我回想起我最喜歡的生物學探索家之一 。
this is an explorer of the unseen world , martinus beijerinck .	這是未知世界的探險家 , 馬丁•貝爾辛克 。
so beijerinck set out to discover the cause of tobacco mosaic disease .	所以 , beijerinck開始發現菸草性疾病的原因 。
what he did is he took the infected juice from tobacco plants and he would filter it through smaller and smaller filters .	他把感染的果汁從煙草中除去 , 他會透過更小的過濾器過濾出來 。
and he reached the point where he felt that there must be something out there that was smaller than the smallest forms of life that were ever known bacteria , at the time .	他到達了他感覺到一定有比當時所知的細菌還小的生命形式還小 。
he came up with a name for his mystery agent .	他想出了一個名字給他的神秘代理 。
he called it the virus latin for " poison . "	他稱之為 " 毒藥 " 的病毒 。
and in uncovering viruses , beijerinck really opened this entirely new world for us .	在揭開病毒時 , 北jerinck為我們打開了這個全新的世界 。
we now know that viruses make up the majority of the genetic information on our planet , more than the genetic information of all other forms of life combined .	我們現在知道 , 病毒佔據了地球上大部分的基因信息 , 比其他生命形式的基因信息還要多 。
and obviously there's been tremendous practical applications associated with this world things like the eradication of smallpox , the advent of a vaccine against cervical cancer , which we now know is mostly caused by human papillomavirus .	很明顯地 , 對於這個世界的實際應用 , 像是天花消滅疫苗 , 這種疫苗對抗子宮頸癌 , 我們現在知道主要是由人類乳癌所造成的 。
and beijerinck's discovery , this was not something that occurred 500 years ago .	beijerinck的發現並不是500年前發生的事 。
it was a little over 100 years ago that beijerinck discovered viruses .	一百多年前 , 北京發現了病毒 。
so basically we had automobiles , but we were unaware of the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	基本上 , 我們有汽車 , 但我們不知道生命形式的形式 , 製造了地球上大部分的基因信息 。
we now have these amazing tools to allow us to explore the unseen world things like deep sequencing , which allow us to do much more than just skim the surface and look at individual genomes from a particular species , but to look at entire metagenomes , the communities of teeming microorganisms in , on and around us and to document all of the genetic information in these species .	我們現在有了這些驚人的工具 , 讓我們可以探索不敏感的世界 , 例如深度測序 , 使我們能做到更多 , 不僅僅是滑雪地表面 , 觀察不同物種的個別基因組 , 而是觀察整個新陳代謝的社群 , 包括我們周圍的微生物 , 以及我們周圍的基因信息 , 記錄這些物種中的所有基因信息 。
we can apply these techniques to things from soil to skin and everything in between .	我們可以把這些技術應用到土壤、皮膚和其他東西之間 。
in my organization we now do this on a regular basis to identify the causes of outbreaks that are unclear exactly what causes them .	在我的組織中 , 我們現在經常這樣做 , 來辨識出爆發的成因 , 正是他們造成的原因 。
and just to give you a sense of how this works , imagine that we took a nasal swab from every single one of you .	為了讓你們了解這如何運作 , 想像一下我們從你們每一個人身上拿了一根鼻子 。
and this is something we commonly do to look for respiratory viruses like influenza .	我們常常會尋找呼吸性病毒 , 例如流感 。
the first thing we would see is a tremendous amount of genetic information .	我們首先會看到的是非常大量的基因信息 。
and if we started looking into that genetic information , we'd see a number of usual suspects out there of course , a lot of human genetic information , but also bacterial and viral information , mostly from things that are completely harmless within your nose .	如果我們開始研究基因信息 , 我們會看到很多常見的疑問 , 當然 , 很多人類遺傳信息 , 還有細菌和病毒信息 , 大部分來自鼻子中完全無害的事物 。
but we'd also see something very , very surprising .	但我們也會看到非常令人驚訝的事物 。
as we started to look at this information , we would see that about 20 percent of the genetic information in your nose doesn't match anything that we've ever seen before no plant , animal , fungus , virus or bacteria .	當我們開始檢視這些資訊時 , 我們會發現 , 你的鼻子中有20%的基因信息 , 和我們從未見過的任何東西 , 沒有植物、動物、真菌、病毒或細菌 。
basically we have no clue what this is .	基本上 , 我們根本不知道這是什麼 。
and for the small group of us who actually study this kind of data , a few of us have actually begun to call this information biological dark matter .	對於我們研究這種數據的小組 , 我們當中有一些人已經開始稱之為 「 生物暗物質 」 。
we know it's not anything that we've seen before ; it's sort of the equivalent of an uncharted continent right within our own genetic information .	我們知道這不是我們以前看過的任何東西 ; 它和我們遺傳信息中未知的大陸一樣 。
and there's a lot of it .	還有很多 。
if you think 20 percent of genetic information in your nose is a lot of biological dark matter , if we looked at your gut , up to 40 or 50 percent of that information is biological dark matter .	如果你認為你的鼻子裡有百分之二十的基因信息是許多生物暗物質 , 如果我們觀察你的腸子 , 高達百分之四十或五十的信息是生物暗物質 。
and even in the relatively sterile blood , around one to two percent of this information is dark matter can't be classified , can't be typed or matched with anything we've seen before .	即使在相對穩定的血液中 , 大約百分之一到兩分之一是暗物質無法被分類 , 也不能被我們以前見過的任何東西分類 。
at first we thought that perhaps this was artifact .	一開始我們認為這可能是人造的 。
these deep sequencing tools are relatively new .	這些深度測序工具相對是新的 。
but as they become more and more accurate , we've determined that this information is a form of life , or at least some of it is a form of life .	但隨著它們變得越來越精確 , 我們決定了這些資訊是一種生命形式 , 至少有些是生命形式的生命 。
and while the hypotheses for explaining the existence of biological dark matter are really only in their infancy , there's a very , very exciting possibility that exists: that buried in this life , in this genetic information , are signatures of as of yet unidentified life .	雖然解釋生物暗物質存在的假設只是在他們的嬰兒體內 , 存在著非常令人興奮的可能性:生命中的遺傳信息 , 存在於未被辨識出來的生命中 , 被遺傳信息所包含的特徵 。
that as we explore these strings of a's , t's , c's and g's , we may uncover a completely new class of life that , like beijerinck , will fundamentally change the way that we think about the nature of biology .	當我們在探索a、t、c、g的弦時 , 我們可能會發現一個全新的生命類型 , 像是beijerinck , 會徹底改變我們對生物學的看法 。
that perhaps will allow us to identify the cause of a cancer that afflicts us or identify the source of an outbreak that we aren't familiar with or perhaps create a new tool in molecular biology .	這或許可以讓我們辨識出一個癌症的成因 , 或辨識出我們不熟悉的疫情來源 , 或可能在分子生物學中創造一個新的工具 。
i'm pleased to announce that , along with colleagues at stanford and caltech and ucsf , we're currently starting an initiative to explore biological dark matter for the existence of new forms of life .	我很高興地宣布 , 和史丹佛和加州理工學院和加州理工學院的同事們 , 我們正開始探索生物暗物質 , 以新形式的生命存在 。
a little over a hundred years ago , people were unaware of viruses , the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	一百多年前 , 人們不知道病毒 , 生命的形式 , 構成我們地球上大部分的基因信息 。
a hundred years from now , people may marvel that we were perhaps completely unaware of a new class of life that literally was right under our noses .	一百年後 , 人們可能會驚嘆我們可能完全沒有意識到新的生命階級 , 真的就在我們的鼻子之下 。
it's true , we may have charted all the continents on the planet and we may have discovered all the mammals that are out there , but that doesn't mean that there's nothing left to explore on earth .	這是真的 , 我們可能已經掌控了地球上的所有大陸 , 我們可能已經發現了所有的哺乳動物 , 但這並不代表地球上沒有任何東西可以探索 。
beijerinck and his kind provide an important lesson for the next generation of explorers people like that young girl from beloit , wisconsin .	beijerinck和他的仁慈為下一代探險家提供了一個重要的教訓 , 例如來自貝洛斯、威斯康辛的年輕女孩 。
and i think if we phrase that lesson , it's something like this: don't assume that what we currently think is out there is the full story .	我認為 , 如果我們說出這一課 , 有點像這樣:不要假設我們目前認為的完整故事 。
go after the dark matter in whatever field you choose to explore .	在你選擇去探索的領域後 , 再來看看黑暗物質 。
there are unknowns all around us and they're just waiting to be discovered .	我們身邊沒有人知道 , 他們正等著被發現 。
legendary scientist david deutsch puts theoretical physics on the back burner to discuss a more urgent matter: the survival of our species . the first step toward solving global warming , he says , is to admit that we have a problem .	傳奇的科學家大衛•德西斯把理論物理放在後面 , 討論一個更急迫的物質:我們人類的生存 。 解決全球暖化的第一步 , 他說 , 就是承認我們有問題 。
climate change , cosmos , culture , environment , global issues , physics , science , technology , universe	氣候變遷、宇宙、文化、環境、全球議題、物理、物理、科學、科技、宇宙、宇宙 。
david deutsch on our place in the cosmos	大衛deutsch在我們的宇宙中 , 位於宇宙中 。
we've been told to go out on a limb and say something surprising .	我們被告知要走上肢體 , 說些令人驚訝的事 。
so i'll try and do that , but i want to start with two things that everyone already knows .	我會試著這樣做 , 但我想從兩個大家都知道的事情開始 。
and the first one , in fact , is something that has been known for most of recorded history .	首先 , 事實上 , 是歷史上大部分記錄下來的一件事 。
and that is that the planet earth , or the solar system , or our environment or whatever , is uniquely suited to sustain our evolution or creation , as it used to be thought and our present existence , and most important , our future survival .	那就是地球 , 或太陽系 , 或環境等等 , 獨特地適合維持我們的演化或創造力 , 如同以前的思想和存在 , 以及最重要的 , 我們未來的生存 。
nowadays this idea has a dramatic name: spaceship earth .	現今這個想法有個很戲劇性的名字:太空船地球 。
and the idea there is that outside the spaceship , the universe is implacably hostile , and inside is all we have , all we depend on .	而這個想法是 , 在太空船之外 , 宇宙是不可思議的 , 而我們所擁有的只是我們所仰賴的 。
and we only get the one chance: if we mess up our spaceship , we've got nowhere else to go .	我們只有一個機會:如果我們搞砸了我們的太空船 , 我們還有其他地方要去 。
now , the second thing that everyone already knows is that contrary to what was believed for most of human history , human beings are not , in fact , the hub of existence .	第二件大家已經知道的事是 , 與大部分人類歷史的信念相反 , 人類不是存在的中心 。
as stephen hawking famously said , we're just a chemical scum on the surface of a typical planet that's in orbit around a typical star , which is on the outskirts of a typical galaxy , and so on .	正如史蒂芬•霍金所說的 , 我們只是一個典型的星球表面 , 一個典型的恆星環繞著一個典型的星系 , 位於典型的星系之外 , 等等 。
now the first of those two things that everyone knows is kind of saying that we're at a very untypical place , uniquely suited and so on , and the second one is saying that we're at a typical place .	首先 , 大家都知道這兩件事情是說我們在一個非常不典型的地方 , 獨一無二的安排等等 , 第二個是說我們在一個典型的地方 。
and especially if you regard these two as deep truths to live by and to inform your life decisions , then they seem a little bit to conflict with each other .	尤其是如果你把這兩者看成是深刻的真理 , 來傳達你的生命決策 , 那麼他們似乎和彼此有一點點衝突 。
but that doesn't prevent them from both being completely false .	但這並不會阻止他們完全錯誤 。
and they are . so let me start with the second one: typical . well is this a typical place ? well , let's look around , you know , and look in a random direction , and we see a wall , and chemical scum and that's not typical of the universe at all .	它們就這樣 。 讓我從第二個開始 , 典型的 。 嗯 , 這是個典型的地方嗎 ? 咱們來看看四周 , 看看隨機的方向 , 我們看到一面牆 , 化學的腫瘤 , 完全不是典型的宇宙 。
all you've got to do is go a few hundred miles in that same direction and look back , and you won't see any walls or chemical scum at all all you see is a blue planet . and if you go further than that , you'll see the sun , the solar system , and the stars and so on .	你所要做的就是走上幾百英哩的路 , 回頭看 , 你不會看到任何牆壁或化學氣質 , 你只能看到一個藍色的星球 。 如果你走得遠一點 , 你會看到太陽、太陽系、恆星等等 。
but that's still not typical of the universe , because stars come in galaxies .	但這仍然不是宇宙的典型 , 因為恆星在星系中存在 。
and most places in the universe , a typical place in the universe , is nowhere near any galaxies .	宇宙中的大部分地方 , 一個典型的地方 , 在宇宙中 , 幾乎沒有任何星系 。
so let's go out further , till we're outside the galaxy , and look back , and yeah , there's the huge galaxy with spiral arms laid out in front of us .	讓我們更進一步 , 直到我們在銀河之外 , 再回頭看 , 是的 , 在我們面前 , 有著螺旋手臂的巨大銀河 。
and at this point we've come 100 , 000 light years from here .	此時此刻 , 我們已經從這裡得到了十萬光年 。
but we're still nowhere near a typical place in the universe .	但我們仍處於一個典型的宇宙中 。
to get to a typical place , you've got to go 1 , 000 times as far as that into intergalactic space .	要到一個典型的地方 , 你要走一千倍 , 才能進入國際空間 。
and so what does that look like ? typical .	那看起來是什麼樣子 ? 典型的 。
what does a typical place in the universe look like ?	宇宙中一個典型的地方是什麼樣子 ?
well , at enormous expense , ted has arranged a highresolution immersion virtual reality rendering of intergalactic space the view from intergalactic space .	嗯 , 在巨大的費用上 , ted已經排列了高解析度的虛擬實境 , 由星系空間的觀點組成 。
so can we have the lights off , please , so we can see it ?	所以 , 我們能否把燈關掉 , 請看 , 我們能看到嗎 ?
well , not quite , not quite perfect you see , in intergalactic space intergalactic space is completely dark , pitch dark .	嗯 , 不太完美 , 在星際間的空間中 , 完全是黑暗、黑暗的 。
it's so dark that if you were to be looking at the nearest star to you , and that star were to explode as a supernova , and you were to be staring directly at it at the moment when its light reached you , you still wouldn't be able to see even a glimmer .	黑暗之處是如此的黑暗 , 如果你看著最近的恆星 , 那顆恆星是一顆超新星 , 而你正直接盯著它盯著你 , 當光線到達你時 , 你仍無法看見一個光明 。
that's how big and how dark the universe is .	宇宙是如此的巨大和黑暗 。
and that's despite the fact that a supernova is so bright , so brilliant an event , that it would kill you stone dead at a range of several light years .	儘管超新星太亮了 , 所以很聰明 , 很棒的一件事 , 它會在幾光年之內殺了你死的石頭 。
and yet from intergalactic space , it's so far away you wouldn't even see it .	然而 , 從星系的空間 , 到目前為止 , 你甚至看不到 。
it's also very cold out there less than three degrees above absolute zero .	在絕對零度以上 , 它也是非常冷的 。
and it's very empty . the vacuum there is one million times less dense than the highest vacuum that our best technology on earth can currently create . so that's how different a typical place is from this place .	它很空 , 真空 , 真空的密度比地球上最高的真空溫度低了一百萬倍 , 目前我們在地球上最好的科技所創造出來的更大 。 這就是典型的地方有多大 。
and that is how untypical this place is .	這就是這個地方的不典型 。
so can we have the lights back on please ? thank you .	所以 , 我們能把燈光放回去嗎 ? 謝謝 。
now how do we know about an environment that's so far away , and so different , and so alien , from anything we're used to ?	現在 , 我們如何知道一個遙遠的環境 , 如此不同的環境 , 從我們所習慣的任何東西到外星人 ?
well , the earth our environment , in the form of us is creating knowledge .	嗯 , 我們的環境 , 創造知識 。
well , what does that mean ? well , look out even further than we've just been i mean from here , with a telescope and you'll see things that look like stars .	嗯 , 這意味著什麼呢 ? 嗯 , 遠遠超過我們剛剛從這裡開始的意思 , 用望遠鏡 , 你會看到一些類似恆星的東西 。
they're called " quasars . " quasars originally meant quasistellar object .	他們稱之為 「 quars 」 。 quars原本是指量子星的物體 。
which means things that look a bit like stars . but they're not stars .	這意味著看起來有點像星星 , 但它們不是星星 。
and we know what they are . billions of years ago , and billions of light years away , the material at the center of a galaxy collapsed towards a supermassive black hole .	數十億年前 , 我們知道它們是什麼 。 數十億光年之外 , 銀河系中間的物質崩塌到一個超大質量的黑洞 。
and then intense magnetic fields directed some of the energy of that gravitational collapse . and some of the matter , back out in the form of tremendous jets which illuminated lobes with the brilliance of i think it's a trillion suns .	接著 , 強烈的磁場會引導引引力崩塌的能量 。 有些物質 , 以巨大的噴射機形式 , 以我認為它是一兆個太陽 。
now , the physics of the human brain could hardly be more unlike the physics of such a jet .	人類大腦的物理學幾乎不像這種噴射機的物理學 。
we couldn't survive for an instant in it . language breaks down when trying to describe what it would be like in one of those jets .	我們無法立即存活下來 。 語言破壞了 , 試圖描述在其中一個噴射機中會是什麼樣子 。
it would be a bit like experiencing a supernova explosion , but at pointblank range and for millions of years at a time .	這有點像經驗超級新星爆炸 , 但在指尖範圍和數百萬年的時間 。
and yet , that jet happened in precisely such a way that billions of years later , on the other side of the universe , some bit of chemical scum could accurately describe , and model , and predict , and explain , above all there's your reference what was happening there , in reality .	然而 , 這個噴射機發生在幾十億年後 , 在宇宙的另一面 , 有些化學氣質可以精確地描述 , 並且預測 , 最重要的是你在現實中所發生的狀況 。
the one physical system , the brain , contains an accurate working model of the other the quasar .	一個物理系統 , 大腦 , 包含一個精確的工作模式 , 其它的正方形 。
not just a superficial image of it , though it contains that as well , but an explanatory model , embodying the same mathematical relationships and the same causal structure .	不單只是一個超級基本的圖像 , 它也包含了它 , 一個解釋模型 , 包含了相同的數學關係 , 以及相同的因果結構 。
now that is knowledge . and if that weren't amazing enough , the faithfulness with which the one structure resembles the other is increasing with time . that is the growth of knowledge .	這是知識 。 如果這還不夠驚人 , 信心與其它結構的相似性會隨著時間增長 。 這就是知識的增長 。
so , the laws of physics have this special property .	所以 , 物理定律有這種特性 。
that physical objects , as unlike each other as they could possibly be , can nevertheless embody the same mathematical and causal structure and to do it more and more so over time .	那個實體物體 , 不像彼此一樣 , 可能是 , 永遠無法體現相同的數學和因果結構 , 並且不斷地做 。
so we are a chemical scum that is different . this chemical scum has universality .	所以 , 我們是一個不同的化學腫瘤 , 這種化學腫瘤具有普遍性 。
its structure contains , with everincreasing precision , the structure of everything . this place , and not other places in the universe , is a hub which contains within itself the structural and causal essence of the whole of the rest of physical reality . and so , far from being insignificant , the fact that the laws of physics allow this , or even mandate that this can happen , is one of the most important things about the physical world .	它的結構包含著有史無前例的精確度、結構的結構 。 這個地方 , 而不是宇宙中的其他地方 , 是一個謙遜的中心 , 包含了整個物理現實的本質 。 到目前為止 , 物理定律 , 允許它發生 , 甚至允許它實現 , 也是最重要的事之一 。
now how does the solar system and our environment , in the form of us acquire this special relationship with the rest of the universe ?	那麼 , 太陽系和我們的環境是如何在我們和宇宙的其他地方取得這種特別的關係 ?
well , one thing that's true about stephen hawking's remark i mean , it is true , but it's the wrong emphasis . one thing that's true about it is that it doesn't do it with any special physics . there's no special dispensation , no miracles involved . it does it simply with three things that we have here in abundance .	嗯 , 史蒂芬•霍金的評論是真的 , 但這是錯的 。 一件事是真的 。 一件事是不對的 。 沒有任何特殊的物理 。 沒有特殊的干擾 , 沒有奇蹟 。 它只是我們在這裡所存在的三件東西 。
one of them is matter , because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing . information processing is computation , computation requires a computer there's no known way of making a computer without matter .	其中一個是重要的 , 因為知識的增長是一種資訊處理的形式 。 資訊處理是計算 , 計算需要一台電腦 , 不知不覺地製造電腦 。
we also need energy to make the computer , and most important , to make the media in effect onto which we record the knowledge that we discover .	我們也需要精力來製造電腦 , 最重要的是要讓媒體有效地記錄我們發現的知識 。
and then thirdly , less tangible , but just as essential for the openended creation of knowledge , of explanations , is evidence .	第三 , 比較不具體 , 但對於開放知識、解釋的開放原則 , 也是證據 。
now , our environment is inundated with evidence .	現在 , 我們的環境受到證據影響 。
we happen to get round to testing , let's say , newton's law of gravity about 300 years ago .	例如 , 牛頓定律大約300年前的重力定律 。
but the evidence that we used to do that was falling down on every square meter of the earth for billions of years before that , and will continue to fall on for billions of years afterwards . and the same is true for all the other sciences .	但是我們以前做的證據是 , 數十億年前地球的平方公尺落下了地球的每一平方公尺 , 數十億年後也會持續下降 。 所有其他的科學都一樣 。
as far as we know , evidence to discover the most fundamental truths of all the sciences is here just for the taking on our planet .	至於我們所知 , 證據發現所有科學中最基本的真理 , 只是為了在地球上採取行動 。
our location is saturated with evidence , and also with matter and energy .	我們的位置充滿了證據 , 也充滿了物質和能量 。
out in intergalactic space , those three prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge are at their lowest possible supply .	在星際空間中 , 這三種預先設定的知識是它們最低的可供應能力 。
as i said , it's empty ; it's cold ; and it's dark out there . or is it ?	如我所說 , 它是空的 , 它很冷 , 那裡是黑暗的 。 還是嗎 ?
now actually , that's just another parochial misconception .	實際上 , 這只是另外一個理論誤解 。
because imagine a cube out there in intergalactic space , the same size as our home , the solar system . now that cube is very empty by human standards , but that still means that it contains over a million tons of matter .	因為想像一個立方體存在於星際空間 , 和我們的家一樣大 , 太陽系 。 以人類標準來說 , 立方體是空的 , 但這仍然意味著它含有超過一百萬噸的物質 。
and a million tons is enough to make , say , a selfcontained space station , on which there's a colony of scientists that are devoted to creating an openended stream of knowledge , and so on .	一百萬噸足以製造出自動控制的太空站 , 那裡有一群科學家 , 致力於創造一個開放式知識流 , 諸如此類 。
now , it's way beyond present technology to even gather the hydrogen from intergalactic space and form it into other elements and so on .	現在 , 超越現在的科技 , 甚至從星系空間中收集氫氣 , 形成其它元素等等 。
but the thing is , in a comprehensible universe , if something isn't forbidden by the laws of physics , then what could possibly prevent us from doing it , other than knowing how ?	但 , 重點是 , 在一個不可思議的宇宙中 , 如果有某樣東西不被物理定律禁止 , 那麼 , 什麼能阻止我們去做 , 除了知道如何 ?
in other words , it's a matter of knowledge , not resources .	換句話說 , 它是知識 , 而不是資源 。
and the same well , if we could do that we'd automatically have an energy supply , because the transmutation would be a fusion reactor and evidence ?	同樣地 , 如果我們能自動進行能源供應 , 因為轉變會是核融合反應爐和證據 ?
well , again , it's dark out there to human senses . but all you've got to do is take a telescope , even one of presentday design , look out and you'll see the same galaxies as we do from here .	再說一次 , 它對人類的感官很暗 。 但你只需要用一台望遠鏡 , 甚至是現今的設計 , 看看你會從這裡看到相同的銀河系 。
and with a more powerful telescope , you'll be able to see stars , and planets .	有了更強大的望遠鏡 , 你會看到星星 , 和行星 。
in those galaxies , you'll be able to do astrophysics , and learn the laws of physics .	在那些星系中 , 你將能夠做天體物理學 , 並且學習物理定律 。
and locally there you could build particle accelerators , and learn elementary particle physics , and chemistry , and so on .	在那裡 , 你可以建造粒子加速器 , 學習基本粒子物理、化學等等 。
probably the hardest science to do would be biology field trips because it would take several hundred million years to get to the nearest lifebearing planet and back .	最難做到的科學是生物實地試驗 , 因為要花上幾億年才能到達最近的生死星 。
but i have to tell you and sorry , richard but i never did like biology field trips much , and i think we can just about make do with one every few hundred million years .	但我必須告訴各位 , 很抱歉 , 理察 , 但我從來沒有像生物實地旅行 , 我想我們能每幾億年就做一次 。
so in fact , intergalactic space does contain all the prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge . any such cube , anywhere in the universe , could become the same kind of hub that we are , if the knowledge of how to do so were present there .	所以 , 事實上 , 星系空間包含了所有開放式的知識 。 任何宇宙中任何地方的任何一個立方體 , 都可以成為我們所擁有的那種樞紐 , 如果我們知道如何做到這一點 。
so we're not in a uniquely hospitable place .	所以 , 我們並不處於一個獨特的敵意之中 。
if intergalactic space is capable of creating an openended stream of explanations , then so is almost every other environment . so is the earth . so is a polluted earth .	如果星系空間能夠創造出一個開放式的解釋 , 那麼幾乎所有其他的環境 。 這就是地球 。 這是污染的地球 。
and the limiting factor , there and here , is not resources , because they're plentiful , but knowledge , which is scarce .	而有限的因素 , 在這裡 , 不是資源 , 因為它們是豐富的 , 但知識 , 是很稀少的 。
now this cosmic knowledgebased view may and i think ought to make us feel very special . but it should also make us feel vulnerable , because it means that without the specific knowledge that's needed to survive the ongoing challenges of the universe , we won't survive them .	以宇宙為基礎的觀點 , 我覺得應該讓我們覺得很特別 。 但這也應該讓我們感到脆弱 , 因為這意味著 , 若沒有需要真正的知識來生存宇宙的挑戰 , 我們就不會生存它們 。
all it takes is for a supernova to go off a few light years away , and we'll all be dead !	只需要幾光年之外的超新星 , 我們都死了 !
martin rees has recently written a book about our vulnerability to all sorts of things , from astrophysics , to scientific experiments gone wrong , and most importantly to terrorism with weapons of mass destruction .	馬丁rees最近寫了一本關於我們對各種事物的脆弱性 , 從天體物理學、到科學實驗都錯了 , 最重要的是對大規模毀滅性武器的恐怖主義 。
and he thinks that civilization has only a 50 percent chance of surviving this century .	他認為文明只有50%的機會能在這個世紀生存 。
i think he's going to talk about that later in the conference .	我想他會在研討會上談到這一點 。
now i don't think that probability is the right category to discuss this issue in .	我不認為機率是正確的類別 , 來討論這個議題 。
but i do agree with him about this . we can survive , and we can fail to survive .	但我同意他 , 我們能生存下來 , 我們無法生存下來 。
but it depends not on chance , but on whether we create the relevant knowledge in time .	但它取決於偶然而不是偶然的 , 而是我們是否在時間內創造相關的知識 。
the danger is not at all unprecedented . species go extinct all the time .	危險不是史無前例的 。 物種總是滅絕 。
civilizations end . the overwhelming majority of all species and all civilizations that have ever existed are now history .	文明終結 , 絕大多數的物種和所有已存在的文明都已經有歷史了 。
and if we want to be the exception to that , then logically our only hope is to make use of the one feature that distinguishes our species , and our civilization , from all the others namely , our special relationship with the laws of physics , our ability to create new explanations , new knowledge to be a hub of existence .	若我們想成為那樣的例外 , 我們唯一的希望是用一種特徵來區別我們物種的特徵 , 以及我們的文明 , 和我們的特殊關係 , 和物理定律的特殊關係 , 我們創造新的解釋 , 新的知識 , 成為存在的擁抱 。
so let me now apply this to a current controversy , not because i want to advocate any particular solution , but just to illustrate the kind of thing i mean .	所以 , 讓我現在把它應用到目前的爭議 , 不是因為我想要提倡任何特定的解決方案 , 只是為了說明我是說的 。
and the controversy is global warming .	爭議是全球暖化 。
now , i'm a physicist , but i'm not the right kind of physicist . in regard to global warming , i'm just a layman . and the rational thing for a layman to do is to take seriously the prevailing scientific theory . and according to that theory , it's already too late to avoid a disaster .	我是物理學家 , 但我不是物理學家 。 在全球暖化的情況下 , 我只是一名女士 。 而對一位女士來說 , 要認真看待現有的科學理論 。 根據這個理論 , 已經太遲了 , 避免災難 。
because if it's true that our best option at the moment is to prevent co2 emissions with something like the kyoto protocol , with its constraints on economic activity and its enormous cost of hundreds of billions of dollars or whatever it is , then that is already a disaster by any reasonable measure .	因為如果說真的 , 我們現在最好的選項就是預防二氧化碳排放 , 例如京都議定書 , 其經濟活動的限制和巨大的成本 , 只要花上數百億美元或任何錢 , 那就已經被任何合理的衡量所造成了災難 。
and the actions that are advocated are not even purported to solve the problem , merely to postpone it by a little . so it's already too late to avoid it , and it probably has been too late to avoid it ever since before anyone realized the danger .	倡導者的行動甚至還沒被資格解決這個問題 , 只需要用一點點來重建它 。 所以它已經太遲可以避免它了 , 可能在任何人意識到危險之前就已經太遲了 。
it was probably already too late in the 1970s , when the best available scientific theory was telling us that industrial emissions were about to precipitate a new ice age in which billions would die .	可能在1970年代已經太晚了 , 最好的科學理論告訴我們 , 工業排放即將預防數十億人死亡的新冰河時代 。
now the lesson of that seems clear to me , and i don't know why it isn't informing public debate .	這一課對我來說是很明顯的 , 我不知道為何它沒有傳達公眾辯論 。
it is that we can't always know . when we know of an impending disaster , and how to solve it at a cost less than the cost of the disaster itself , then there's not going to be much argument , really .	就是我們無法永遠知道 。 當我們知道一個即興的災難時 , 如何用比災難本身的成本低於成本 , 真的沒有太多的爭論 。
but no precautions , and no precautionary principle , can avoid problems that we do not yet foresee .	但沒有預防措施 , 也沒有預防原則 , 可以避免我們尚未預防的問題 。
hence , we need a stance of problemfixing , not just problemavoidance .	因此 , 我們需要一個解決問題的平衡 , 不只是問題 。
and it's true that an ounce of prevention equals a pound of cure , but that's only if we know what to prevent .	事實是 , 一堆預防等同於一磅的療法 , 但這只是我們知道預防什麼 。
if you've been punched on the nose , then the science of medicine does not consist of teaching you how to avoid punches .	如果你在鼻子上被打了 , 那麼醫學的科學並不包含教導你如何避免懲罰 。
if medical science stopped seeking cures and concentrated on prevention only , then it would achieve very little of either .	如果醫學界不再尋求治療 , 只專注於預防 , 就會達成非常少的成就 。
the world is buzzing at the moment with plans to force reductions in gas emissions at all costs .	目前世界正在進行計畫 , 來強迫氣體排放量的減少 。
it ought to be buzzing with plans to reduce the temperature , and with plans to live at the higher temperature and not at all costs , but efficiently and cheaply . and some such plans exist , things like swarms of mirrors in space to deflect the sunlight away , and encouraging aquatic organisms to eat more carbon dioxide .	它應該要用計劃來減少溫度 , 用計劃來維持更高的溫度 , 而不是所有成本 , 而是有效率和便宜 。 有些計畫存在 , 例如太空中大量的鏡子 , 來反射太陽光 , 並鼓勵水分生物進食更多的二氧化碳 。
at the moment , these things are fringe research .	此時此刻 , 這些東西正在進行研究 。
they're not central to the human effort to face this problem , or problems in general .	它們不是人類的核心 , 或一般的問題 。
and with problems that we are not aware of yet , the ability to put right not the sheer good luck of avoiding indefinitely is our only hope , not just of solving problems , but of survival .	有了我們還不知道的問題 , 要把對的能力 , 不是避免的好運──絕對是我們唯一的希望 , 不只是解決問題 , 而是生存 。
so take two stone tablets , and carve on them .	拿兩個石頭表 , 把它們關在上面 。
on one of them , carve: " problems are soluble . "	其中一個是 , 卡夫: 「 問題是很困難的 。 」
and on the other one carve: " problems are inevitable . "	另一張車上: 「 問題是不可避免的 。 」
how can a struggling country break out of poverty if it's trapped in a system of bad rules ? economist paul romer unveils a bold idea: " charter cities , " cityscale administrative zones governed by a coalition of nations .	一個掙扎的國家 , 如果它被困在一個不好的規則中呢 ? 經濟學家保羅•羅默揭露了一個大膽的想法: 「 查理城市 」 , 市政區的行政區被國家聯盟統治 。
business , culture , economics , global issues , politics	商業、文化、經濟、全球議題、政治議題、政治 。
paul romer's radical idea: charter cities	保羅羅•羅默的極端點子:查爾•都市 。
take a look at this picture .	看看這張照片 。
it poses a very fascinating puzzle for us .	它對我們來說是非常著迷的謎題 。
these african students are doing their homework under streetlights at the airport in the capital city because they don't have any electricity at home .	這些非洲學生在首都機場的街燈下做功課 , 因為他們家裡沒有任何電力 。
now , i haven't met these particular students , but i've met students like them .	我還沒見過這些特別的學生 , 但我遇到了像他們這樣的學生 。
let's just pick one for example , the one in the green shirt .	舉個例子 , 綠色襯衫中的一個 。
let's give him a name , too: nelson .	讓我們給他一個名字:nelson 。
i'll bet nelson has a cellphone .	我打賭nelson有手機 。
so here is the puzzle .	這是個謎題 。
why is it that nelson has access to a cuttingedge technology , like the cellphone , but doesn't have access to a 100yearold technology for generating electric light in the home ?	為什麼nelson能取得先進技術 , 例如手機 , 但沒有一個100歲的科技能在家裡產生電燈 ?
now , in a word , the answer is " rules . "	以一個詞來說 , 答案是 「 規則 」 。
bad rules can prevent the kind of winwin solution that's available when people can bring new technologies in and make them available to someone like nelson .	不好的規則可以防止贏得的解決方案 , 讓人們可以把新的科技帶進來 , 讓像nelson這樣的人能取得 。
what kinds of rules ?	什麼規則 ?
the electric company in this nation operates under a rule , which says that it has to sell electricity at a very low , subsidized price in fact , a price that is so low it loses money on every unit that it sells .	這個國家的電力公司在一個規則下執行 , 說它必須在非常低、補助的價格上銷售 , 事實上 , 價格太低 , 每單位賣出的每一單位都損失金錢 。
so it has neither the resources , nor the incentives , to hook up many other users .	所以它沒有資源 , 沒有激勵力 , 沒有其他使用者 。
the president wanted to change this rule .	總統想要改變這個規則 。
he's seen that it's possible to have a different set of rules , rules where businesses earn a small profit , so they have an incentive to sign up more customers .	他看到 , 可能有不同的規則 , 企業賺到小利潤的規則 , 所以他們有獎勵來簽更多客戶 。
that's the kind of rules that the cellphone company that nelson purchases his telephony from operates under .	那是一種規則 , nelson購買了他的電話 。
the president has seen how those rules worked well .	總統看過這些規則是如何運作的 。
so he tried to change the rules for pricing on electricity , but ran into a firestorm of protest from businesses and consumers who wanted to preserve the existing subsidized rates .	所以他試著改變使用電力的規則 , 但他進入了企業和消費者的激烈抗議活動 , 他們想要保存現有的補助率 。
so he was stuck with rules that prevented him from letting the winwin solution help his country .	他被困住了規則 , 阻止他讓贏家解決方案幫助他的國家 。
and nelson is stuck studying under the streetlights .	尼爾森在街燈下學習 。
the real challenge then , is to try to figure out how we can change rules .	真正的挑戰是要試著弄清楚我們能如何改變規則 。
are there some rules we can develop for changing rules ?	是否有一些規則可以用來改造規則 ?
i want to argue that there is a general abstract insight that we can make practical , which is that , if we can give more choices to people , and more choices to leaders who , in many countries , are also people .	我想主張 , 有一個普遍抽象的洞見 , 我們可以做出實際的體驗 , 那就是 , 如果我們能給人們更多選擇 , 並且對許多國家的領導者有更多選擇 , 也是人 。
but , it's useful to present the opposition between these two .	但 , 這兩者之間的反對是有用的 。
because the kind of choice you might want to give to a leader , a choice like giving the president the choice to raise prices on electricity , takes away a choice that people in the economy want .	因為你可能想給領袖一個選擇 , 像是給總統一個選擇 , 來提高電力的價格 , 取代經濟中人民的選擇 。
they want the choice to be able to continue consuming subsidized electric power .	他們希望選擇能夠繼續消耗補助電力 。
so if you give just to one side or the other , you'll have tension or friction .	所以如果你給一邊或另一邊 , 你會有張力或摩擦力 。
but if we can find ways to give more choices to both , that will give us a set of rules for changing rules that get us out of traps .	但如果我們能找到方法 , 給予兩者更多的選擇 , 那就給了我們一套規則 , 來改變我們走出陷阱的規則 。
now , nelson also has access to the internet .	nelson也能取得網路 。
and he says that if you want to see the damaging effects of rules , the ways that rules can keep people in the dark , look at the pictures from nasa of the earth at night .	他說 , 如果你想要看到規則的破壞效應 , 規則能讓人們在黑暗中保持在黑暗中 , 看一下地球的照片 。
in particular check out asia .	特別是亞洲人 。
if you zoom in here , you can see north korea , in outline here , which is like a black hole compared to its neighbors .	如果你放大這裡 , 你可以看到北韓 , 在線上 , 這就像是黑洞和鄰居相比 。
now , you won't be surprised to learn that the rules in north korea keep people there in the dark .	現在 , 你不會很驚訝地發現北韓的規則會讓人們在黑暗中保持在黑暗中 。
but it is important to recognize that north korea and south korea started out with identical sets of rules in both the sense of laws and regulations , but also in the deeper senses of understandings , norms , culture , values and beliefs .	但很重要的是 , 要知道北韓和南韓的規則 , 在法律和規範方面 , 兩者都一模一樣的規則 , 但在更深層的理解、規範、文化、價值觀和信念上 。
when they separated , they made choices that led to very divergent paths for their sets of rules .	當他們分開時 , 他們做了一些選擇 , 導致他們有非常多樣化的規則 。
so we can change we as humans can change the rules that we use to interact with each other , for better , or for worse .	所以 , 我們可以改變人類的規則 , 改變我們互相互動的規則 , 更好 , 或更糟糕 。
now let's look at another region , the caribbean .	現在讓我們來看另一個區域 , 加勒比海 。
zoom in on haiti , in outline here .	放大海地 , 在外線這裡 。
haiti is also dark , compared to its neighbor here , the dominican republic , which has about the same number of residents .	海地也是黑暗的 , 相較於它的鄰居 , 多明尼加共和國 , 相較於相同的居民數量 。
both of these countries are dark compared to puerto rico , which has half as many residents as either haiti or the dominican republic .	這些國家兩者都很暗 , 與波多黎各相比 , 其中有一半的居民是海地或多明尼加共和國 。
what haiti warns us is that rules can be bad because governments are weak .	海地警告我們 , 規則可能很糟 , 因為政府很弱 。
it's not just that the rules are bad because the government is too strong and oppressive , as in north korea .	不單只是規則不好 , 因為政府太強、太壓迫 , 就像北韓一樣 。
so that if we want to create environments with good rules , we can't just tear down .	所以如果我們想創造一個有好規則的環境 , 我們就不能只靠撕裂 。
we've got to find ways to build up , as well .	我們也得找出方法來建構 。
now , china dramatically demonstrates both the potential and the challenges of working with rules .	現在 , 中國戲劇性地展示了與規則合作的潛力和挑戰 。
back in the beginning of the data presented in this chart , china was the world's hightechnology leader .	在這個圖表的開端 , 中國是世界高科技領袖 。
chinese had pioneered technologies like steel , printing , gunpowder .	中國有先驅的技術 , 像是鋼、列印、槍枝 。
but the chinese never adopted , at least in that period , effective rules for encouraging the spread of those ideas a profit motive that could have encouraged the spread .	但中國從來沒有採用過 , 至少在那個時期 , 有效的規則來鼓勵那些想法的傳播 , 一個可以鼓勵傳播的利潤動機 。
and they soon adopted rules which slowed down innovation and cut china off from the rest of the world .	他們很快就採用了規則 , 減慢了創新 , 並將中國從世界其它地方移除 。
so as other countries in the world innovated , in the sense both of developing newer technologies , but also developing newer rules , the chinese were cut off from those advances .	所以 , 如同世界上其他國家的創新 , 兩者都發展新技術 , 但同時發展新的規則 , 中國人從這些進步中被砍掉 。
income there stayed stagnant , as it zoomed ahead in the rest of the world .	收入保持穩定 , 隨著它在世界其他地方放大 。
this next chart looks at more recent data .	下一個圖表比較近期的數據 。
it plots income , average income in china as a percentage of average income in the united states .	中國的平均收入佔美國平均收入的比例 。
in the '50s and '60s you can see that it was hovering at about three percent .	在50到60年代 , 你可以看到 , 大約佔百分之三 。
but then in the late '70s something changed .	但到了70年代末期 , 有些改變了 。
growth took off in china . the chinese started catching up very quickly with the united states .	成長在中國起飛 , 中國開始趕上美國 。
if you go back to the map at night , you can get a clue to the process that lead to the dramatic change in rules in china .	如果你回到夜晚的地圖 , 你就能得到一個線索 , 讓中國的規則有很大的改變 。
the brightest spot in china , which you can see on the edge of the outline here , is hong kong .	中國最亮的地點 , 你可以看到在外線的邊緣 , 就是香港 。
hong kong was a small bit of china that , for most of the 20th century , operated under a very different set of rules than the rest of mainland china rules that were copied from working market economies of the time , and administered by the british .	香港是一小部分的中國 , 大部分20世紀以來 , 採用非常不同的規則 , 遠超過當時的主要中國規則 , 已經從工業市場經濟中複製出來 , 由英國人主導 。
in the 1950s , hong kong was a place where millions of people could go , from the mainland , to start in jobs like sewing shirts , making toys .	在1950年代 , 香港是數百萬人可以去的地方 , 從大陸開始 , 像是縫製襯衫 , 製作玩具 。
but , to get on a process of increasing income , increasing skills led to very rapid growth there .	但 , 為了增加收入的過程 , 增加技能 , 導致非常快速的成長 。
hong kong was also the model which leaders like deng xiaoping could copy , when they decided to move all of the mainland towards the market model .	香港也是個典範 , 像是英國xiaoping可以複製 , 當他們決定把所有大陸都移到市場模式時 。
but deng xiaoping instinctively understood the importance of offering choices to his people .	但 , 英雄要直覺地了解 , 給予他人選擇的重要性 。
so instead of forcing everyone in china to shift immediately to the market model , they proceeded by creating some special zones that could do , in a sense , what britain did: make the opportunity to go work with the market rules available to the people who wanted to opt in there .	所以 , 與其迫使中國人立即轉變為市場模式 , 他們創造了一些特殊的區塊 , 在某種意義上 , 英國所做的是:讓機會和市場規則合作 , 和想要選的人一起合作 。
so they created four special economic zones around hong kong: zones where chinese could come and work , and cities grew up very rapidly there ; also zones where foreign firms could come in and make things .	所以他們在香港附近創造了四個特殊的經濟區 , 中國人可以來工作 , 城市很快就在那裡長大 , 外國企業可以進來製造東西 。
one of the zones next to hong kong has a city called shenzhen .	香港旁邊有一座城市叫做 「 希恩文 」 。
in that city there is a taiwanese firm that made the iphone that many of you have , and they made it with labor from chinese who moved there to shenzhen .	在這個城市中 , 有一間台台灣公司 , 在座很多人都有iphone , 他們用中國的勞工搬到sanzhen 。
so after the four special zones , there were 14 coastal cites that were open in the same sense , and eventually demonstrated successes in these places that people could opt in to , that they flocked to because of the advantages they offered .	所以在四個特殊區域之後 , 有14個海岸線 , 以相同的方式開放 , 最終 , 在這些地方 , 人們可以選擇的成功 , 他們被鎖定在他們提供的優勢上 。
demonstrated successes there led to a consensus for a move toward the market model for the entire economy .	那裡的成功導致了共識 , 讓整個經濟體的市場模式向前邁進 。
now the chinese example shows us several points .	中國的例子顯示了好幾個點 。
one is: preserve choices for people .	第一 , 保存人們的選擇 。
two: operate on the right scale .	第二:在正確的規模操作 。
if you try to change the rules in a village , you could do that , but a village would be too small to get the kinds of benefits you can get if you have millions of people all working under good rules .	如果你試著改變一個村莊的規則 , 你可以做到 , 但一個村莊太小了 , 要是你有數百萬人在良好的規則下工作 , 就能得到好處 。
on the other hand , the nation is too big .	另一方面 , 國家太大了 。
if you try to change the rules in the nation , you can't give some people a chance to hold back , see how things turn out , and let others zoom ahead and try the new rules .	如果你試著改變國家的規則 , 你就不能給一些人一個機會 , 看看事情如何發生 , 讓其他人放大 , 嘗試新的規則 。
but cities give you this opportunity to create new places , with new rules that people can opt in to .	但城市給你一個機會 , 創造出新的地方 , 新的規則 , 讓人們可以選擇 。
and they're large enough to get all of the benefits that we can have when millions of us work together under good rules .	而他們大到足以取得所有我們在好規則下工作的好處 。
so the proposal is that we conceive of something called a charter city .	所以 , 提議是我們構想一個叫做 「 查理城市 」 的東西 。
we start with a charter that specifies all the rules required to attract the people who we'll need to build the city .	我們從一個章節開始 , 針對所有規則 , 來吸引我們所需要的人 , 來建造這個城市 。
we'll need to attract the investors who will build out the infrastructure the power system , the roads , the port , the airport , the buildings .	我們需要吸引投資者 , 建立基礎建設電力系統、道路、港口、機場、建築物 。
you'll need to attract firms , who will come hire the people who move there first .	你需要吸引公司 , 誰會先僱用先搬到那裡的人 。
and you'll need to attract families , the residents who will come and live there permanently , raise their children , get an education for their children , and get their first job .	你需要吸引家庭、居民來到那裡 , 永久生活 , 養育他們的孩子 , 為他們的孩子取得教育 , 取得他們的第一份工作 。
with that charter , people will move there .	有了那張圖表 , 人們會搬到那裡 。
the city can be built .	城市可以被建造出來 。
and we can scale this model .	我們可以把這個模型規模化 。
we can go do it over and over again .	我們可以一遍又一遍地進行 。
to make it work , we need good rules . we've already discussed that .	為了讓它運作 , 我們需要良好的規則 。 我們已經討論過 。
those are captured in the charter .	這些都是在charter上捕捉到的 。
we also need the choices for people .	我們也需要人們的選擇 。
that's really built into the model if we allow for the possibility of building cities on uninhabited land .	這真的是建立在模型中 , 如果我們能在未居住的土地上建立城市的可能性 。
you start from uninhabited territory .	你從未居住的領域開始 。
people can come live under the new charter , but no one is forced to live under it .	人們可以住在新chrter之下 , 但沒有人被迫住在它之下 。
the final thing we need are choices for leaders .	最後一件我們需要的是領導者的選擇 。
and , to achieve the kind of choices we want for leaders we need to allow for the potential for partnerships between nations: cases where nations work together , in effect , de facto , the way china and britain worked together to build , first a little enclave of the market model , and then scale it throughout china .	為了達成我們想要領導者的選擇 , 我們需要讓國家之間的合作關係 , 讓國家團結在一起 , 實際上 , 中國和英國合作 , 建立一個市場模型 , 然後擴大整個中國 。
in a sense , britain , inadvertently , through its actions in hong kong , did more to reduce world poverty than all the aid programs that we've undertaken in the last century .	在某種意義上 , 英國 , 不經意地 , 透過香港的行動 , 來減少世界貧窮 , 比我們在上個世紀所遭受的所有援助計畫還要多 。
so if we allow for these kind of partnerships to replicate this again , we can get those kinds of benefits scaled throughout the world .	所以 , 如果我們能讓這種合作關係再次複製 , 我們就能讓世界上各地的利益擴大 。
in some cases this will involve a delegation of responsibility , a delegation of control from one country to another to take over certain kinds of administrative responsibilities .	在某些情況下 , 這會涉及一種責任 , 一種控制權 , 從一個國家到另一個國家 , 來克服某些政府的責任 。
now , when i say that , some of you are starting to think , " well , is this just bringing back colonialism ? "	現在 , 當我這麼說時 , 有些人開始想: 「 嗯 , 這會帶回殖民主義嗎 ? 」
it's not . but it's important to recognize that the kind of emotions that come up when we start to think about these things , can get in the way , can make us pull back , can shut down our ability , and our interest in trying to explore new ideas .	並非如此 。 但重要的是要意識到當我們開始思考這些事情時會出現的那種情緒 , 可以讓我們回到過去 , 可以阻止我們的能力 , 並且我們對探索新想法的興趣 。
why is this not like colonialism ?	為什麼這不像殖民主義 ?
the thing that was bad about colonialism , and the thing which is residually bad in some of our aid programs , is that it involved elements of coercion and condescension .	關於殖民主義的壞事 , 在我們的一些援助計畫中 , 居住的壞事是它涉及了衝突和自閉症的元素 。
this model is all about choices , both for leaders and for the people who will live in these new places .	這個模式是關於選擇 , 無論是領導者 , 以及未來會居住在這些新地方的人 。
and , choice is the antidote to coercion and condescension .	選擇是對強迫和自閉症的解藥 。
so let's talk about how this could play out in practice .	所以 , 咱們來談談這如何在實踐中演奏 。
let's take a particular leader , raul castro , who is the leader of cuba .	讓我們拿一個特定的領導人拉爾•卡斯楚 , 他是古巴的領導者 。
it must have occurred to castro that he has the chance to do for cuba what deng xiaoping did for china , but he doesn't have a hong kong there on the island in cuba .	肯定是為了卡斯楚 , 他有機會為古巴做古巴的xiaoping做事 , 但他沒有在古巴島的香港 。
he does , though , have a little bit of light down in the south that has a very special status .	不過 , 他的確在南方有一點點光 , 那裡有很特別的地位 。
there is a zone there , around guantanamo bay , where a treaty gives the united states administrative responsibility for a piece of land that's about twice the size of manhattan .	這裡有一個區塊 , 位於保納莫灣 , 在那裡 , 一個條約給美國政府負責一塊土地 , 大約是曼哈頓兩倍大 。
castro goes to the prime minister of canada and says , " look , the yankees have a terrible pr problem .	克斯斯楚去了加拿大總理 , 說: 「 看 , 沒錯 , 沒問題 。
they want to get out .	他們想出去 。
why don't you , canada , take over ?	為何你不 , 加拿大 , 克服呢 ?
build run a special administrative zone .	建造一個特殊的行政區 。
allow a new city to be built up there .	允許一個新的城市在那裡建造 。
allow many people to come in .	讓許多人進來 。
let us have a hong kong nearby .	讓我們在附近有一個香港 。
some of my citizens will move into that city as well .	我的一些公民也會搬進這個城市 。
others will hold back . but this will be the gateway that will connect the modern economy and the modern world to my country . "	其他人會回來 , 但這將會是將現代經濟和現代世界連結到我的國家 。 」
now , where else might this model be tried ?	現在 , 這個模型還能被試驗到哪裡呢 ?
well , africa . i've talked with leaders in africa .	非洲 , 我和非洲的領導人談過 。
many of them totally get the notion of a special zone that people can opt into as a rule .	許多人完全得到一個特殊區域的概念 , 讓人們可以選擇一個規則 。
it's a rule for changing rules .	這是一個改變規則的規則 。
it's a way to create new rules , and let people optin without coercion , and the opposition that coercion can force .	它是一種創造新規則的方法 , 讓人們不需要合作 , 和合作的反面 。
they also totally get the idea that in some instances they can make more credible promises to longterm investors the kind of investors who will come build the port , build the roads , in a new city they can make more credible promises if they do it along with a partner nation .	他們也完全了解 , 在某些情況下 , 他們能做出更可信的承諾 , 來長期投資者 , 像是建造港口、建造道路、新城市 , 如果他們和一個夥伴合作 , 他們就能做出更可信的承諾 。
perhaps even in some arrangement that's a little bit like an escrow account , where you put land in the escrow account and the partner nation takes responsibility for it .	甚至在一些安排中 , 有點像是一個逃生帳戶 , 在那裡 , 你把土地放進逃生帳戶中 , 國民對此負起責任 。
there is also lots of land in africa where new cities could be built .	非洲也有許多土地可以建造新的城市 。
this is a picture i took when i was flying along the coast .	這是我在海岸飛行時拍的照片 。
there are immense stretches of land like this land where hundreds of millions of people could live .	這裡有巨大的土地 , 像這樣的土地 , 那裡有數億人可以住在那裡 。
now , if we generalize this and think about not just one or two charter cites , but dozens cities that will help create places for the many hundreds of millions , perhaps billions of people who will move to cities in the coming century is there enough land for them ?	現在 , 若我們將這點放進去 , 想一想 , 不只一、二個慈愛團體 , 而是數十億的城市 , 甚至數十億的人口 , 都能為他們創造一個地方 ?
well , throughout the world , if we look at the lights at night , the one thing that's misleading is that , visually , it looks like most of the world is already built out .	嗯 , 在世界各地 , 如果我們看夜間的燈光 , 一個錯誤的事情 , 就是 , 視覺上來說 , 世界上大部分的燈光已經被建造出來了 。
so let me show you why that's wrong .	所以 , 讓我給你們看為什麼會這樣 。
take this representation of all of the land .	以這代表所有土地 。
turn it into a square that stands for all the arable land on earth .	把它轉變成平方形 , 代表地球上所有可耕地 。
and let these dots represent the land that's already taken up by the cities that three billion people now live in .	讓這些點代表現在有三十億人口居住的城市 。
if you move the dots down to the bottom of the rectangle you can see that the cities for the existing three billion urban residents take up only three percent of the arable land on earth .	如果你把點移到長方形的底部 , 你可以看到現有的三十億個城市居民 , 只佔地球上可耕地的百分之三 。
so if we wanted to build cities for another billion people , they would be dots like this .	所以如果我們想要為數十億人建造城市 , 他們就會像這樣的點 。
we'd go from three percent of the arable land , to four percent .	我們從3%的可耕地 , 到4% 。
we'd dramatically reduce the human footprint on earth by building more cities that people can move to .	我們會大幅降低地球上的人類足跡 , 建造更多的城市 , 讓人們可以移動 。
and if these are cities governed by good rules , they can be cities where people are safe from crime , safe from disease and bad sanitation , where people have a chance to get a job .	如果這些城市被良好的規則所管理 , 他們可以成為城市 , 人們安全地從犯罪、疾病和不良衛生 , 在那裡 , 人們有機會找到工作 。
they can get basic utilities like electricity .	它們可以得到基本的電力 , 像是電力 。
their kids can get an education .	他們的孩子可以得到教育 。
so what will it take to get started building the first charter cities , scaling this so we build many more ?	所以 , 要開始建立第一座慈善城市 , 我們要怎麼做才能建造更多的土地 ?
it would help to have a manual .	它會幫助手冊 。
what university professors could do is write some details that might go into this manual .	大學教授可以做的是寫一些細節 , 可以進入這個手冊 。
you wouldn't want to let us run the cities , go out and design them .	你不會想讓我們跑城市 , 去設計它們 。
you wouldn't let academics out in the wild .	你不會讓學者走出野外 。
but , you could set us to work thinking about questions like , suppose it isn't just canada that does the deal with raul castro .	但 , 你可以讓我們思考一些問題 , 例如 , 假設 , 加拿大不僅僅是加拿大對抗種族災難 。
perhaps brazil comes in as a participant , and spain as well . and perhaps cuba wants to be one of the partners in a fourway joint venture .	或許巴西是參與者 , 西班牙也想成為四個關節的夥伴之一 。
how would we write the treaty to do that ?	我們要怎麼寫治療法呢 ?
there is less precedent for that , but that could easily be worked out .	這樣做比較少先例 , 但那很容易就成功了 。
how would we finance this ?	我們要如何資助這一點 ?
turns out singapore and hong kong are cities that made huge gains on the value of the land that they owned when they got started .	結果發現 , 新加坡和香港是種很大的城市 , 他們在一開始就有了土地的價值 。
you could use the gains on the value of the land to pay for things like the police , the courts , but the school system and the health care system too , which make this a more attractive place to live , makes this a place where people have higher incomes which , incidentally , makes the land more valuable .	你可以利用土地的價值 , 來支付像警察、法庭等東西 , 但學校和醫療保健體系也讓這個更吸引人的地方 , 讓人們有更高的收入 , 意外 , 讓土地變得更有價值 。
so the incentives for the people helping to construct this zone and build it , and set up the basic rules , go very much in the right direction .	所以 , 人們幫助建構這個區域的誘因 , 設立基礎規則 , 走對的方向 。
so there are many other details like this .	這裡還有很多其他細節 。
how could we have buildings that are low cost and affordable for people who work in a first job , assembling something like an iphone , but make those buildings energy efficient , and make sure that they are safe , so they don't fall down in an earthquake or a hurricane .	我們怎麼可能有建築物的成本很低 , 對第一份工作的人們來說 , 組裝像iphone這樣的東西 , 讓那些建築能有效率 , 確保它們是安全的 , 所以它們不會在地震或颶風中落下 。
many technical details to be worked out , but those of us who are already starting to pursue these things can already tell that there is no roadblock , there's no impediment , other than a failure of imagination , that will keep us from delivering on a truly global winwin solution .	許多技術上的細節都已經成功 , 但那些已經開始追求這些東西的人已經知道沒有道路 , 沒有任何阻礙 , 除了想像的失敗之外 , 會使我們無法實現真正全球的雙贏解決方案 。
let me conclude with this picture .	讓我用這張照片來做結論 。
the reason we can be so well off , even though there is so many people on earth , is because of the power of ideas .	我們之所以能如此順利 , 即使地球上有這麼多人 , 是因為想法的力量 。
we can share ideas with other people , and when they discover them , they share with us .	我們可以和他人分享想法 , 當他們發現他們時 , 他們會和我們分享 。
it's not like scarce objects , where sharing means we each get less .	不像缺乏物品 , 分享的意義就越少 。
when we share ideas we all get more .	當我們分享想法時 , 我們都會得到更多 。
when we think about ideas in that way , we usually think about technologies .	當我們用這種方式思考想法時 , 我們通常會想到科技 。
but there is another class of ideas: the rules that govern how we interact with each other ; rules like , let's have a tax system that supports a research university that gives away certain kinds of knowledge for free .	但還有另一類想法:我們如何與彼此互動的規則 ; 規則如 , 我們有一個稅制系統 , 支持一個研究大學 , 免費的知識 。
let's have a system where we have ownership of land that is registered in a government office , that people can pledge as collateral .	咱們來做一個系統 , 我們擁有一座政府辦公室的所有權 , 讓人們可以作為一座冰川 。
if we can keep innovating on our space of rules , and particularly innovate in the sense of coming up with rules for changing rules , so we don't get stuck with bad rules , then we can keep moving progress forward and truly make the world a better place , so that people like nelson and his friends don't have to study any longer under the streetlights . thank you .	如果我們能繼續創新我們的規則 , 尤其是創新 , 以改變規則的角度來看 , 我們就不會被困住 , 那麼我們就能繼續進步 , 真正讓世界變得更好 , 像nelson和他的朋友不再需要在街燈下學習 。 謝謝 。
genomics pioneer craig venter takes a break from his epic roundtheworld expedition to talk about the millions of genes his team has discovered so far in its quest to map the ocean’s biodiversity .	基因組學先驅克雷格•凡特從他的史詩圓頂探險中休息 , 談到他的團隊中數百萬個基因 , 到目前為止 , 發現了海洋生物多樣性 。
dna , biosphere , biotech , entrepreneur , genetics , invention , oceans , science , technology	dna , 生物圈、生物科技、企業家、基因、發明、海洋、科學、科技、科技、科技、科技 。
craig venter on dna and the sea	克雷格•凡特在dna和海上 。
at the break , i was asked by several people about my comments about the aging debate .	休息時 , 我被幾個人問到我對於老化辯論的評論 。
and this will be my only comment on it .	這將會是我唯一的留言 。
and that is , i understand that optimists greatly outlive pessimists .	那就是 , 我了解到樂觀主義者極度過時的悲觀主義者 。
what i'm going to tell you about in my 18 minutes is how we're about to switch from reading the genetic code to the first stages of beginning to write the code ourselves .	在我18分鐘內 , 我要告訴各位 , 我們將如何從基因編碼轉換到開始寫程式的第一階段 。
it's only 10 years ago this month when we published the first sequence of a freeliving organism , that of haemophilus influenzae .	只有10年前 , 當我們發表了第一序列的自由有機體時 , 海豚傳染了流感病毒的第一個序列 。
that took a genome project from 13 years down to four months .	這個計畫從13年到4個月 , 完成了基因組計畫 。
we can now do that same genome project in the order of two to eight hours .	我們現在可以在兩到八小時內完成同樣的基因組計劃 。
so in the last decade , a large number of genomes have been added: most human pathogens , a couple of plants , several insects and several mammals , including the human genome .	在過去的十年間 , 大量的基因組被加入了:大部分的人類病原體、幾種植物、幾種昆蟲和數種哺乳類 , 包括人類的基因組 。
genomics at this stage of the thinking from a little over 10 years ago was , by the end of this year , we might have between three and five genomes sequenced ; it's on the order of several hundred .	十多年前 , 基因組學的思考階段在今年年底 , 我們可能有三到五個基因組定序 , 數百個 。
we just got a grant from the gordon and betty moore foundation to sequence 130 genomes this year , as a side project from environmental organisms .	今年我們剛從戈登和貝蒂摩爾基金會取得了130個基因組 , 作為環保有機體的一方計畫 。
so the rate of reading the genetic code has changed .	所以 , 閱讀基因編碼的速度已經改變了 。
but as we look , what's out there , we've barely scratched the surface on what is available on this planet .	但當我們看到 , 外面的狀況 , 我們幾乎無法在這個星球上取得的表面上 。
most people don't realize it , because they're invisible , but microbes make up about a half of the earth's biomass , whereas all animals only make up about one onethousandth of all the biomass .	大部份人都不知道 , 因為它們是看不見的 , 但微生物佔了地球一半的生物量 , 而所有動物只佔所有生物量的一千分之一 。
and maybe it's something that people in oxford don't do very often , but if you ever make it to the sea , and you swallow a mouthful of seawater , keep in mind that each milliliter has about a million bacteria and on the order of 10 million viruses .	也許是牛津人常常會做的事 , 但如果你去海裡 , 吞下一口海水 , 請記住每一毫升的細菌和一千萬種病毒 。
less than 5 , 000 microbial species have been characterized as of two years ago , and so we decided to do something about it .	不到五千種微生物的物種 , 兩年前被特徵化 , 所以我們決定要做點什麼 。
and we started the sorcerer ii expedition , where we were , as with great oceanographic expeditions , trying to sample the ocean every 200 miles .	我們成立了srcer二次探險 , 在那裡 , 我們和偉大的海洋探險探險一樣 , 每兩百英哩都在海中進行樣本 。
we started in bermuda for our test project , then moved up to halifax , working down the u . s . east coast , the caribbean sea , the panama canal , through to the galapagos , then across the pacific , and we're in the process now of working our way across the indian ocean .	我們從bermuda開始進行測試 , 然後搬到哈利法克斯 , 沿著美國東岸 , 加勒比海 , 巴拿馬運河 , 到加拉帕戈斯 , 然後跨越太平洋 , 我們現在正在橫跨印度洋 。
it's very tough duty ; we're doing this on a sailing vessel , in part to help excite young people about going into science .	這是非常艱難的職責 ; 我們在船上做這件事 , 部分原因是協助年輕人進入科學領域 。
the experiments are incredibly simple .	實驗非常簡單 。
we just take seawater and we filter it , and we collect different size organisms on different filters , and then take their dna back to our lab in rockville , where we can sequence a hundred million letters of the genetic code every 24 hours .	我們只是把海水過濾 , 收集不同的大小生物 , 然後把它們的dna帶回我們在洛克維爾的實驗室 , 在那裡 , 我們每24小時就能定序一億個基因密碼 。
and with doing this , we've made some amazing discoveries .	透過這樣做 , 我們創造了一些驚人的發現 。
for example , it was thought that the visual pigments that are in our eyes there was only one or two organisms in the environment that had these same pigments .	舉例來說 , 人們認為我們的眼睛裡的視覺色素只有一到兩種有機體存在著相同的顏料
it turns out , almost every species in the upper parts of the ocean in warm parts of the world have these same photoreceptors , and use sunlight as the source of their energy and communication .	結果發現 , 幾乎全世界的所有物種都有相同的光接接收器 , 並用太陽光當它們的能量和溝通來源 。
from one site , from one barrel of seawater , we discovered 1 . 3 million new genes and as many as 50 , 000 new species .	從一個地點 , 從一個海水桶裡 , 我們發現了一百三十萬個新基因 , 大約五萬個新物種 。
we've extended this to the air now with a grant from the sloan foundation .	我們已經從sloan基金會把這個延伸到空氣中 。
we're measuring how many viruses and bacteria all of us are breathing in and out every day , particularly on airplanes or closed auditoriums .	我們在測量有多少病毒和細菌 , 我們每天都在呼吸 , 特別是在飛機或關閉的聽覺室 。
we filter through some simple apparatuses ; we collect on the order of a billion microbes from just a day filtering on top of a building in new york city .	我們過濾了一些簡單的外表 , 我們收集了十億微生物的數量 , 來自紐約市的一棟建築物 。
and we're in the process of sequencing all that at the present time .	而我們正處於當今的過程中 。
just on the data collection side , just where we are through the galapagos , we're finding that almost every 200 miles , we see tremendous diversity in the samples in the ocean .	只是在資料集的一面 , 我們在加拉帕戈斯的那一面 , 我們發現幾乎每200英里 , 我們看到海洋中的樣本有多樣性 。
some of these make logical sense , in terms of different temperature gradients .	有些是合乎邏輯的 , 在不同溫度的層面上 。
so this is a satellite photograph based on temperatures red being warm , blue being cold and we found there's a tremendous difference between the warm water samples and the cold water samples , in terms of abundant species .	這是一張衛星照片 , 以紅色為基礎的溫度為基礎 , 藍色是溫暖的 , 藍色是冷的 , 我們發現溫暖的水樣本和冷水樣本有很大的差別 。
the other thing that surprised us quite a bit is these photoreceptors detect different wavelengths of light , and we can predict that based on their amino acid sequence .	另一件令我們驚訝的事是這些光接收器偵測到不同波長的光 , 我們可以根據他們的胺基酸序列來預測 。
and these vary tremendously from region to region .	從區域到區域 , 這些差異很大 。
maybe not surprisingly , in the deep ocean , where it's mostly blue , the photoreceptors tend to see blue light .	也許不意外地 , 在深海中 , 大部分是藍色的 , 光接受器通常會看到藍光 。
when there's a lot of chlorophyll around , they see a lot of green light .	當有大量的染色體時 , 它們會看到大量的綠光 。
but they vary even more , possibly moving towards infrared and ultraviolet in the extremes .	但它們還會更大 , 可能在極端的情況下轉向紅外線和紫外線 。
just to try and get an assessment of what our gene repertoire was , we assembled all the data including all of ours thus far from the expedition , which represents more than half of all the gene data on the planet and it totaled around 29 million genes .	為了評估我們的基因複製 , 我們組裝了所有的資料 , 包括我們遠離探險的所有資料 , 代表了地球上所有基因資料的一半 , 總共有2千9百萬個基因 。
and we tried to put these into gene families to see what these discoveries are: are we just discovering new members of known families , or are we discovering new families ?	我們試著把這些基因改造給基因家庭 , 看看這些發現是什麼:我們只是發現已知家庭的新成員 , 還是我們發現了新的家人 ?
and it turns out we have about 50 , 000 major gene families , but every new sample we take in the environment adds in a linear fashion to these new families .	結果發現 , 我們有大約五萬個主要的基因家庭 , 但我們在環境中的每一種新樣本 , 都會在線性時期加入這些新家庭 。
so we're at the earliest stages of discovery about basic genes , components and life on this planet .	所以 , 我們正處於最早期的階段 , 發現這個星球上的基本基因、元素和生命 。
when we look at the socalled evolutionary tree , we're up on the upper righthand corner with the animals .	當我們觀察所謂的演化樹 , 我們就站在右上角和動物的角落 。
of those roughly 29 million genes , we only have around 24 , 000 in our genome .	其中大約有兩千九百萬個基因 , 我們的基因組中只有大約2萬4千個 。
and if you take all animals together , we probably share less than 30 , 000 and probably maybe a dozen or more thousand different gene families .	如果你把所有動物聚集在一起 , 我們可能有超過三萬個 , 也許是十萬個不同的基因家庭 。
i view that these genes are now not only the design components of evolution .	我認為這些基因現在不僅僅是演化的設計成分 。
and we think in a genecentric view maybe going back to richard dawkins' ideas than in a genomecentric view , which are different constructs of these gene components .	我們認為 , 在一個慷慨的觀點中 , 可能回到理查•達金斯的點子 , 和基因組成的不同結構 。
synthetic dna , the ability to synthesize dna , has changed at sort of the same pace that dna sequencing has over the last decade or two , and is getting very rapid and very cheap .	合成dna , 合成dna的能力 , 改變了過去十年間dna定序的速度 , 越來越低 。
our first thought about synthetic genomics came when we sequenced the second genome back in 1995 , and that from mycoplasma genitalium .	我們第一次想到合成基因組學 , 是在1995年 , 我們將第二個基因組定序 , 從菌絲體的生殖器 。
and we have really nice tshirts that say , you know , " i heart my genitalium . "	我們有很棒的t恤 , 上面寫著: 「 我很愛我的生殖器官 。 」
this is actually just a microorganism .	這其實只是個微生物 。
but it has roughly 500 genes .	但它有大約500個基因 。
haemophilus had 1 , 800 genes .	海底有一千八百個基因 。
and we simply asked the question , if one species needs 800 , another 500 , is there a smaller set of genes that might comprise a minimal operating system ?	我們只是問一個問題 , 如果一個物種需要800 , 另一個500 , 是否有一組較小的基因 , 可以組成一個最小的營運系統 ?
so we started doing transposon mutagenesis .	所以 , 我們開始進行轉移性突變 。
transposons are just small pieces of dna that randomly insert in the genetic code .	轉移只是基因編碼中的一小片dna , 隨機在基因編碼中插入 。
and if they insert in the middle of the gene , they disrupt its function .	如果他們在基因的中間插入 , 就會破壞它的功能 。
so we made a map of all the genes that could take transposon insertions and we called those " nonessential genes . "	所以我們做了一張基因的地圖 , 可以取代轉移的插入 , 我們稱之為 「 非正向基因 」 。
but it turns out the environment is very critical for this , and you can only define an essential or nonessential gene based on exactly what's in the environment .	但事實證明 , 環境對此非常重要 , 你只能根據環境中的環境來定義一個必要或正直的基因 。
we also tried to take a more directly intellectual approach with the genomes of 13 related organisms , and we tried to compare all of those , to see what they had in common .	我們也試著用更直接的智能方法來處理13個相關有機體的基因組 , 我們試著將這些基因組做比較 , 看看它們的共通點 。
and we got these overlapping circles . and we found only 173 genes common to all 13 organisms .	我們找到這些重疊的圓圈 。 我們發現 , 只有173個基因和13個有機體相同 。
the pool expanded a little bit if we ignored one intracellular parasite ; it expanded even more when we looked at core sets of genes of around 310 or so .	如果我們忽略了一個細胞寄生蟲的基因 , 它會擴展到310種核心基因組 , 以此類推 。
so we think that we can expand or contract genomes , depending on your point of view here , to maybe 300 to 400 genes from the minimal of 500 .	所以 , 我們認為我們可以擴張或收縮基因組 , 根據你的觀點來看 , 大約300到400個基因 。
the only way to prove these ideas was to construct an artificial chromosome with those genes in them , and we had to do this in a cassettebased fashion .	要證明這些想法的唯一方法就是建立一個人工染色體 , 裡面有這些基因 , 我們必須在以電腦為基礎的時尚中做這個 。
we found that synthesizing accurate dna in large pieces was extremely difficult .	我們發現 , 在大片片片段合成dna的合成是非常困難的 。
ham smith and clyde hutchison , my colleagues on this , developed an exciting new method that allowed us to synthesize a 5 , 000base pair virus in only a twoweek period that was 100 percent accurate , in terms of its sequence and its biology .	hmsmith和clydehutchison , 我的同事開發出了一種令人興奮的新方法 , 讓我們能在兩週內合成一種50000個鹼基對病毒 , 以它的序列和生物學來說 , 只有百分之百正確 。
it was a quite exciting experiment when we just took the synthetic piece of dna , injected it in the bacteria and all of a sudden , that dna started driving the production of the virus particles that turned around and then killed the bacteria .	這是個非常令人興奮的實驗 , 當我們把合成的dna注入細菌中 , 突然間 , dna開始驅動病毒粒子的生產 , 然後殺死細菌 。
this was not the first synthetic virus a polio virus had been made a year before but it was only one tenthousandth as active and it took three years to do .	這不是小兒麻痺病毒的第一個合成病毒一年才被製造出來的 , 但它只是活躍的一公分 , 花了三年的時間 。
this is a cartoon of the structure of phi x 174 .	這是phix-174的結構圖 。
this is a case where the software now builds its own hardware , and that's the notions that we have with biology .	這個案例是軟體現在建構自己的硬體 , 那就是我們對生物學的看法 。
people immediately jump to concerns about biological warfare , and i had recent testimony before a senate committee , and a special committee the u . s . government has set up to review this area .	人們馬上開始關心生物戰爭 , 我在參議院委員會之前有近期的證詞 , 以及美國政府設立了一項特殊委員會 , 來審視這個區域 。
and i think it's important to keep reality in mind , versus what happens with people's imaginations .	我認為 , 要讓現實保持在心中 , 和人們的想像有所不同 。
basically , any virus that's been sequenced today that genome can be made .	基本上 , 任何現今已經被定序的病毒 , 基因組可以被製造出來 。
and people immediately freak out about things about ebola or smallpox , but the dna from this organism is not infective .	人們馬上會想到伊波拉或天花 , 但這個有機體的dna不是感染的 。
so even if somebody made the smallpox genome , that dna itself would not cause infections .	所以即使有人做了天花基因組 , dna本身不會造成感染 。
the real concern that security departments have is designer viruses .	真正關注安全部的真正關心的是設計師病毒 。
and there's only two countries , the u . s . and the former soviet union , that had major efforts on trying to create biological warfare agents .	只有兩個國家 , 美國和前蘇聯有很大的努力 , 試圖創造生物武器 。
if that research is truly discontinued , there should be very little activity on the knowhow to make designer viruses in the future .	如果那份研究是真正不穩定的 , 那麼在未來 , 要讓設計師的病毒在未來就不應該有很大的活動 。
i think singlecell organisms are possible within two years .	我認為單細胞有機體在兩年內是有可能的 。
and possibly eukaryotic cells , those that we have , are possible within a decade .	可能在十年內 , 那些我們擁有的 , 可能是有可能的 。
so we're now making several dozen different constructs , because we can vary the cassettes and the genes that go into this artificial chromosome .	所以 , 我們現在在製造數十種不同的建構 , 因為我們可以改變種類和基因 , 進入這個人造染色體中 。
the key is , how do you put all of the others ?	關鍵在於 , 你要如何把所有其他人放在一起 ?
we start with these fragments , and then we have a homologous recombination system that reassembles those into a chromosome .	我們從這些碎片開始 , 再加上一個全面的重新組合系統 , 將它們組合成一個染色體 。
this is derived from an organism , deinococcus radiodurans , that can take three million rads of radiation and not be killed .	這是從一個有機體中衍生出來的 , 白血球菌 , 可以用三百萬種放射線來殺死 。
it reassembles its genome after this radiation burst in about 12 to 24 hours , after its chromosomes are literally blown apart .	它在這個放射線爆炸之後重新組合它的基因組大約12到24小時後它的染色體分開了
this organism is ubiquitous on the planet , and exists perhaps now in outer space due to all our travel there .	這個有機體在地球上無所不在 , 也許現在存在於外太空 , 由於我們的旅行 。
this is a glass beaker after about half a million rads of radiation .	這是一台玻璃洗衣機 , 大約有50萬個射線輻射 。
the glass started to burn and crack , while the microbes sitting in the bottom just got happier and happier .	玻璃開始燃燒和裂縫 , 而底部的微生物就變得更快樂和更快樂 。
here's an actual picture of what happens: the top of this shows the genome after 1 . 7 million rads of radiation .	這是一張真實的圖片:這個圖片的上方顯示了一百七十萬個輻射後的基因組 。
the chromosome is literally blown apart .	染色體其實是被拆散的 。
and here's that same dna automatically reassembled 24 hours later .	同樣的dna在24小時後自動重新組合 。
it's truly stunning that these organisms can do that , and we probably have thousands , if not tens of thousands , of different species on this planet that are capable of doing that .	令人驚訝的是這些生物可以做到這一點 , 我們可能有成千上萬的生物 , 如果沒有成千上萬的地球上不同的物種可以做到這一點 。
after these genomes are synthesized , the first step is just transplanting them into a cell without a genome .	在這些基因組合成之後 , 第一步就是將它們移植到一個沒有基因組的細胞中 。
so we think synthetic cells are going to have tremendous potential , not only for understanding the basis of biology but for hopefully environmental and society issues .	所以 , 我們認為合成細胞將會有巨大的潛力 , 不僅是為了了解生物學的基礎 , 還對環境和社會議題有希望 。
for example , from the third organism we sequenced , methanococcus jannaschii it lives in boiling water temperatures ; its energy source is hydrogen and all its carbon comes from co2 it captures back from the environment .	例如 , 第三種有機體 , 我們定序 , 甲烷佔據了它在沸水中的溫度 ; 它的能量來源是氫 , 所有的碳來自於環境中的二氧化碳 。
so we know lots of different pathways , thousands of different organisms now that live off of co2 , and can capture that back .	所以 , 我們知道很多不同的路徑 , 數以千計的有機體現在住在二氧化碳中 , 並且可以捕捉回來 。
so instead of using carbon from oil for synthetic processes , we have the chance of using carbon and capturing it back from the atmosphere , converting that into biopolymers or other products .	所以 , 不是用石油來做合成程序 , 我們有機會利用碳來捕捉它 , 從大氣中將它轉換成生物聚合物或其他產品 。
we have one organism that lives off of carbon monoxide , and we use as a reducing power to split water to produce hydrogen and oxygen .	我們有一個有機體 , 存在於二氧化碳 , 我們用它來降低水分 , 來產生氫和氧氣 。
also , there's numerous pathways that can be engineered metabolizing methane .	此外 , 有數條路徑可以被工程代謝甲烷 。
and dupont has a major program with statoil in norway to capture and convert the methane from the gas fields there into useful products .	杜邦有一個很大的計畫 , 用挪威的雕像來捕捉和將氣體的甲烷轉化為有用的產品 。
within a short while , i think there's going to be a new field called " combinatorial genomics , " because with these new synthesis capabilities , these vast gene array repertoires and the homologous recombination , we think we can design a robot to make maybe a million different chromosomes a day .	在短短的一段時間內 , 我認為有一個新領域叫做 「 組合基因組學 」 , 因為這些新的合成能力 , 這些巨大的基因庫和同性重組 , 我們認為我們可以設計一個機器人 , 來製造一個一天可能有百萬種不同的染色體 。
and therefore , as with all biology , you get selection through screening , whether you're screening for hydrogen production , or chemical production , or just viability .	因此 , 如同所有生物學一樣 , 你通過篩選 , 不論你是否在篩選氫產品 , 或化學生產 , 或只有可行性 。
to understand the role of these genes is going to be well within reach .	要了解這些基因的作用 , 將會很接近 。
we're trying to modify photosynthesis to produce hydrogen directly from sunlight .	我們試圖修改光合作用 , 直接從陽光中直接產生氫 。
photosynthesis is modulated by oxygen , and we have an oxygeninsensitive hydrogenase that we think will totally change this process .	光合作用是氧氣的調節 , 我們有一種氧氣敏感的氫氣 , 我們認為會完全改變這個過程 。
we're also combining cellulases , the enzymes that break down complex sugars into simple sugars and fermentation in the same cell for producing ethanol .	我們也在組合細胞 , 分解複雜糖的酵素 , 變成簡單的糖 , 在同一個細胞中產生乙醇 。
pharmaceutical production is already under way in major laboratories using microbes .	用微生物 , 製藥生產已經在大型實驗室中使用微生物 。
the chemistry from compounds in the environment is orders of magnitude more complex than our best chemists can produce .	環境中的化合物的化學成分比我們最好的化學家所產生的複雜性還要複雜 。
i think future engineered species could be the source of food , hopefully a source of energy , environmental remediation and perhaps replacing the petrochemical industry .	我認為未來的工程物種可以是食物的來源 , 希望是能源、環境的立場 , 或許可以取代石化工業 。
let me just close with ethical and policy studies .	讓我用倫理和政策研究做結尾 。
we delayed the start of our experiments in 1999 until we completed a yearandahalf bioethical review as to whether we should try and make an artificial species .	我們在1999年推行了我們的實驗 , 直到我們完成了一年半的生物倫理審查 , 來評估我們是否該嘗試並製造一個人造物種 。
every major religion participated in this .	每一個主要的宗教都參與其中 。
it was actually a very strange study , because the various religious leaders were using their scriptures as law books , and they couldn't find anything in them prohibiting making life , so it must be ok . the only ultimate concerns were biological warfare aspects of this , but gave us the go ahead to start these experiments for the reasons we were doing them .	這是個很奇怪的研究 , 因為各式各樣的宗教領袖使用他們的文字 , 他們找不到任何東西 , 禁止生存生命 , 所以這是唯一合理的 , 唯一的關注是生物戰爭方面的尊重 , 但給了我們前往這些實驗 , 為我們做這些實驗的理由 。
right now the sloan foundation has just funded a multiinstitutional study on this , to work out what the risk and benefits to society are , and the rules that scientific teams such as my own should be using in this area , and we're trying to set good examples as we go forward .	現在 , sloan基金會剛剛資助了一份多項制度的研究 , 來研究社會的風險和利益 , 以及科學團隊的規則 , 例如我自己應該要在這個領域中使用的這些規則 , 我們正嘗試在向前進行好的例子 。
these are complex issues .	這些都是複雜的議題 。
except for the threat of bioterrorism , they're very simple issues in terms of , can we design things to produce clean energy , perhaps revolutionizing what developing countries can do and provide through various simple processes .	除了生物恐怖主義的威脅 , 它們是非常簡單的議題 , 我們能設計出乾淨能源 , 或許革命化開發中國家可以做的事 , 通過各種簡單的過程 。
psychologist philip zimbardo says happiness and success are rooted in a trait most of us disregard: the way we orient toward the past , present and future . he suggests we calibrate our outlook on time as a first step to improving our lives .	心理學家菲利普•辛巴多說 「 快樂 」 和 「 成功 」 是根深蒂固的 , 我們大部分人都不知所措:我們如何朝向過去、現在和未來邁進 。 他建議我們在追求時間的第一步 , 來改善我們的生活 。
brain , business , happiness , mind , psychology , science	大腦、生意、快樂、心智、心理學、心理學、科學、科學 。
philip zimbardo prescribes a healthy take on time	philipzimbardo開了一段健康的日子 。
i want to share with you some ideas about the secret power of time , in a very short time .	我想和大家分享一些關於時間的秘密力量的一些想法 , 很短的時間內 。
video: all right , start the clock please . 30 seconds studio .	影片:好 , 開始時鐘 。 三十秒的工作室 。
keep it quiet please . settle down .	保持安靜 , 安靜下來 。
it's about time . end sequence . take one .	大約是時間 , 終結序列 。 拿一個 。
10 , nine , eight , seven , six , five , four , three , two . . .	十、九、八、七、五、四、三、二......
philip zimbardo: let's tune into the conversation of the principals in adam's temptation .	菲利普茲巴多:我們來談談亞當的誘惑中校長的誘惑 。
" come on adam , don't be so wishywashy . take a bite . " " i did . "	「 來吧亞當 , 不要那麼願望 。 多一點點 。 」 我真的這麼做了 。
" one bite , adam . don't abandon eve . "	「 一口 , 亞當 , 不要放棄 。 」
" i don't know , guys .	「 我不知道 , 各位 。
i don't want to get in trouble . "	我不想惹麻煩 。 」
" okay . one bite . what the hell ? "	「 好 , 一口 , 什麼 ? 」
life is temptation . it's all about yielding , resisting , yes , no , now , later , impulsive , reflective , present focus and future focus .	生命是暫時的 。 一切都在累積 , 抗拒 , 是的 , 不 , 後來 , 衝動 , 反思 , 現在和未來的焦點 。
promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment .	承諾美德會落入當下的熱情之中 。
of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage thank you george bush the majority , 60 percent , yielded to sexual temptations within one year .	青少年的女孩在婚前宣誓性墮胎和處女 , 直到婚前謝布希大部分人 , 60% , 在一年內就有性誘惑 。
and most of them did so without using birth control .	大部分的人都這麼做 , 不用用生育控制 。
so much for promises .	承諾太多了 。
now lets tempt fouryearolds , giving them a treat .	現在 , 讓我們暫時四歲的孩子 , 給予他們治療 。
they can have one marshmallow now . but if they wait until the experimenter comes back , they can have two .	他們現在可以有一顆棉花糖 。 但如果他們等到實驗員回來 , 他們就能有兩顆 。
of course it pays , if you like marshmallows , to wait .	當然 , 如果你喜歡棉花糖 , 等待它 。
what happens is twothirds of the kids give in to temptation .	孩子們有三分之二的誘惑 。
they cannot wait . the others , of course , wait .	他們無法等待 , 其他人當然 , 等等 。
they resist the temptation . they delay the now for later .	他們抗拒誘惑 , 現在他們延遲了 。
walter mischel , my colleague at stanford , went back 14 years later , to try to discover what was different about those kids .	華爾特•密克爾 , 我在史丹佛大學的同事 , 14年後回來 , 試圖找出那些孩子的差別 。
there were enormous differences between kids who resisted and kids who yielded , in many ways .	孩子們有很大的差異 , 在許多方面 , 他們抗拒和孩子 。
the kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the sat .	抗拒250分的孩子在土地上比較高的孩子 。
that's enormous . that's like a whole set of different iq points .	這很巨大 。 這就像是一整組不同的智商點 。
they didn't get in as much trouble . they were better students .	他們沒有那麼多麻煩 , 他們是比較好的學生 。
they were selfconfident and determined . and the key for me today , the key for you , is , they were futurefocused rather than presentfocused .	他們是自信和決心的 。 對我來說 , 對你來說 , 關鍵是 , 他們是未來發展的 , 而不是刻板印象 。
so what is time perspective ? that's what i'm going to talk about today .	所以 , 時間的觀點是什麼 ? 這就是我今天要談的 。
time perspective is the study of how individuals , all of us , divide the flow of your human experience into time zones or time categories .	時間觀點是研究個體 , 我們所有人 , 將人體經驗的分化成時間區或時間分類 。
and you do it automatically and nonconsciously .	你自動做得到 , 無意識地 。
they vary between cultures , between nations , between individuals , between social classes , between education levels .	他們在文化、國家、個人之間、社會階級之間、教育層面之間的差異 。
and the problem is that they can become biased , because you learn to overuse some of them and underuse the others .	問題是 , 它們會變得偏見 , 因為你學會克服其中的一些因素 , 不管是其他因素 。
what determines any decision you make ?	什麼決定你做出的決定 ?
you make a decision on which you're going to base an action .	你要做出一個決定 , 決定你要採取行動 。
for some people it's only about what is in the immediate situation , what other people are doing and what you're feeling .	對某些人來說 , 只有在當下的情況下 , 別人在做什麼 , 別人在做什麼 , 你的感受 。
and those people , when they make their decisions in that format we're going to call them " presentoriented , " because their focus is what is now .	而這些人 , 當他們在那種形式中做出決定時 , 我們稱他們為 「 簡報 」 , 因為他們的焦點是現在 。
for others , the present is irrelevant .	對其他人來說 , 現在是無關緊要的 。
it's always about " what is this situation like that i've experienced in the past ? "	總是在說: 「 我過去經歷過的這種狀況是什麼 ? 」
so that their decisions are based on past memories .	所以 , 他們的決定是根據過去的記憶 。
and we're going to call those people " pastoriented , " because they focus on what was .	我們將稱之為 「 牧師 」 , 因為他們專注於什麼 。
for others it's not the past , it's not the present , it's only about the future .	對他人來說 , 這不是過去 , 而是現在 , 只是關於未來 。
their focus is always about anticipated consequences .	他們的焦點在於預期後的後果 。
we're going to call them " futureoriented . " their focus is on what will be .	我們將稱之為 「 未來 」 , 他們的焦點是 「 未來 」 。
so , time paradox , i want to argue , the paradox of time perspective , is something that influences every decision you make , you're totally unaware of .	所以 , 時間悖論 , 我想爭論時間觀點的矛盾 , 是影響你所做的每一個決定 , 你完全不知道 。
namely , the extent to which you have one of these biased time perspectives .	換句話說 , 你有一個偏見的時光觀點
well there is actually six of them . there are two ways to be presentoriented .	其實有六個 。 有兩種方式可以呈現出來 。
there is two ways to be pastoriented , two ways to be future .	有兩種方式可以被主宰 , 兩種方式可以成為未來 。
you can focus on pastpositive , or pastnegative .	你可以把焦點放在貼紙上 , 或貼紙上 。
you can be presenthedonistic , namely you focus on the joys of life , or presentfatalist it doesn't matter , your life is controlled .	你也可以是具體的 , 你把焦點放在生命的喜悅 , 或現在的虛假主義者 , 不重要 , 你的生命被控制 。
you can be futureoriented , setting goals .	你可以是未來的、設定目標的目標 。
or you can be transcendental future: namely , life begins after death .	或者 , 你可以是超然的未來:生命從死亡開始 。
developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidly depending on the demands of the situation , that's what you've got to learn to do .	發展出心理靈活性 , 來改變時間的觀點 , 取決於情境的需求 , 那就是你必須要學會做的事 。
so , very quickly , what is the optimal time profile ?	所以 , 很快地 , 最佳時機檔案是什麼 ?
high on pastpositive . moderately high on future .	積極的積極度 , 將來在高度上 。
and moderate on presenthedonism .	而現代主義 。
and always low on pastnegative and presentfatalism .	總是低於過去的負面和現代主義 。
so the optimal temporal mix is what you get from the past pastpositive gives you roots . you connect your family , identity and your self .	所以最佳的暫時性混合是你從過去的義肢中得到的 , 給你根源 。 連結你的家人、身分 , 以及你的自我 。
what you get from the future is wings to soar to new destinations , new challenges .	你從未來得到的 , 是翅膀 , 到新的目的 , 新的挑戰 。
what you get from the present hedonism is the energy , the energy to explore yourself , places , people , sensuality .	你從現在的 「 享樂主義 」 中得到的是能量 , 能探索你自己、地方、人、感官 。
any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives .	任何時間的觀點都比正面更有負面 。
what do futures sacrifice for success ?	未來犧牲了什麼樣的成功 ?
they sacrifice family time . they sacrifice friend time .	他們犧牲家庭時光 , 犧牲了友誼的時間 。
they sacrifice fun time . they sacrifice personal indulgence .	他們犧牲了好玩的時間 , 犧牲了個人的侮辱 。
they sacrifice hobbies . and they sacrifice sleep . so it affects their health .	他們犧牲了嗜好 , 犧牲了睡眠 。 所以它會影響他們的健康 。
and they live for work , achievement and control .	他們為了工作、達成和掌控 。
i'm sure that resonates with some of the tedsters .	我相信 , 和一些ted的演說有所共鳴 。
and it resonated for me . i grew up as a poor kid in the south bronx ghetto , a sicilian family everyone lived in the past and present .	這對我有所共鳴 。 我在南布朗克斯•格赫托長大 , 一個西里亞的家庭 , 每個人都住在過去和現在 。
i'm here as a futureoriented person who went over the top , who did all these sacrifices because teachers intervened , and made me future oriented .	我來到這裡 , 身為一個將來的人 , 走過頂端的人 , 做了這些犧牲 , 因為老師介入了教學 , 讓我成為未來的靈感 。
told me don't eat that marshmallow , because if you wait you're going to get two of them , until i learned to balance out .	告訴我不要吃那顆棉花糖 , 因為如果你等著你拿到兩顆 , 直到我學會平衡 。
i've added presenthedonism , i've added a focus on the pastpositive , so , at 76 years old , i am more energetic than ever , more productive , and i'm happier than i have ever been .	我加入了現代主義 , 我在過去的76歲 , 我比以往更加活力 , 更有生產力 , 我比以前更快樂 。
i just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems: changing the dropout rates of school kids , combating addictions , enhancing teen health , curing vets' ptsd with time metaphors getting miracle cures promoting sustainability and conservation , reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50percent drop out rate , altering appeals to suicidal terrorists , and modifying family conflicts as timezone clashes .	我只是想說 , 我們把這個方法應用到許多世界問題上:改變學校的輟學率 , 將成癮率提高 , 增強青少年的健康 , 用時間比喻來治癒心智障礙 , 促進永續性和保育 , 減少身體復甦 , 在那裡有50%的退休率 , 改變了自殺恐怖份子 , 改變家庭的恐怖份子 。
so i want to end by saying: many of life's puzzles can be solved by understanding your time perspective and that of others .	最後我要說的是:許多生命的謎題都可以透過了解你的觀點和其他的觀點來解決 。
and the idea is so simple , so obvious , but i think the consequences are really profound .	這個想法很簡單 , 很顯而易見 , 但我認為 , 結果是很深刻的 。
how many of today's headlines will matter in 100 years ? 1000 ? kirk citron's " long news " project collects stories that not only matter today , but will resonate for decades even centuries to come . at ted2010 , he highlights recent headlines with the potential to shape our future .	現今的頭條有多少人在一百年會很重要 ? 一百年 ? 一百年 ? 克里斯•克特朗的《長新聞》收集故事 , 數十年來都不重要 , 甚至數百年來 , 他在ted2010年時 , 他的頭條有潛力可以塑造我們的未來 。
future , global issues , media , news , science	未來 , 全球議題、媒體、新聞、科學、科學 。
kirk citron: and now , the real news	kirkcitron:現在 , 真新聞報導了 。
we are drowning in news .	我們在新聞中淹沒 。
reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year .	光是住家一年就發佈了三百五十萬則新聞 。
that's just one source .	這只是一個來源 。
my question is: how many of those stories are actually going to matter in the long run ?	我的問題是:長期來說 , 那些故事會很重要嗎 ?
that's the idea behind the long news .	這是長期新聞背後的想法 。
it's a project by the long now foundation , which was founded by tedsters including kevin kelly and stewart brand .	它是一個由tedsters所創立的計畫 , 包括凱文•凱利和史都華特的品牌 。
and what we're looking for is news stories that might still matter 50 or 100 or 10 , 000 years from now .	我們在尋找的新聞故事 , 可能還在50、100 , 000年後還會發生什麼事 。
and when you look at the news through that filter , a lot falls by the wayside .	當你透過那過濾的消息看新聞時 , 路面上的許多消息都落下了 。
to take the top stories from the a . p . this last year , is this going to matter in a decade ?	為了從a.p , 去年 , 這將會影響十年嗎 ?
is this going to matter in 50 or 100 years ?	在50或100年內 , 這會影響嗎 ?
okay , that was kind of cool .	好吧 , 這很酷 。
but the top story of this past year was the economy , and i'm just betting that , sooner or later , this particular recession is going to be old news .	但過去一年的頂尖故事是經濟 , 我打賭 , 不久後 , 這個衰退將會是古老的消息 。
so , what kind of stories might make a difference for the future ?	所以 , 什麼樣的故事會對未來有影響 ?
well , let's take science .	咱們來談談科學 。
someday , little robots will go through our bloodstreams fixing things .	有一天 , 小機器人會穿過我們的血流 , 來修復東西 。
that someday is already here if you're a mouse .	如果你是老鼠 , 某天就在這裡 。
some recent stories: nanobees zap tumors with real bee venom ; they're sending genes into the brain ; a robot they built that can crawl through the human body .	一些最近的故事:奈米生物會用真蜜蜂venom的腫瘤 ; 它們會把基因傳送到大腦 ; 一個可以在人體上爬行的機器人 。
what about resources ? how are we going to feed nine billion people ?	資源呢 ? 我們要如何餵養九十億人 ?
we're having trouble feeding six billion today .	現今我們有60億人口的營養問題 。
as we heard yesterday , there's over a billion people hungry .	如我們昨天聽到的 , 有超過十億人挨餓 。
britain will starve without genetically modified crops .	英國不會基因改造作物 , 英國會餓死 。
bill gates , fortunately , has bet a billion on [agricultural] research .	幸運的是 , 比爾•蓋茨有十億人在農業研究上 。
what about global politics ?	全球政治呢 ?
the world's going to be very different when and if china sets the agenda , and they may .	世界將會變得非常不一樣 , 如果中國設立了議程 , 他們可能會 。
they've overtaken the u . s . as the world's biggest car market , they've overtaken germany as the largest exporter , and they've started doing dna tests on kids to choose their careers .	他們已經超越了美國 , 成為世界上最大的汽車市場 , 他們已經超越了德國最大的出口國 , 他們開始在孩子們做dna測試 , 來選擇他們的職業 。
we're finding all kinds of ways to push back the limits of what we know .	我們發現各式各樣的方法 , 來推回我們所知的限制 。
some recent discoveries: there's an ant colony from argentina that has now spread to every continent but antarctica ; there's a selfdirected robot scientist that's made a discovery soon , science may no longer need us , and life may no longer need us either ; a microbe wakes up after 120 , 000 years .	一些近期的發現:阿根廷有一個蟻群 , 現在散播到每個大陸 , 但南極洲 , 有一個自主的機器人科學家 , 很快地 , 科學可能不再需要我們 , 生命可能不再需要我們 ; 超過120 , 000年 。
it seems that with or without us , life will go on .	看來 , 看似沒有我們 , 生命會持續下去 。
but my pick for the top long news story of this past year was this one: water found on the moon .	但過去一年 , 我為前長期新聞所做的選擇是:在月球上找到水 。
makes it a lot easier to put a colony up there .	讓它在上面放一個蟻群 , 更容易 。
and if nasa doesn't do it , china might , or somebody in this room might write a big check .	如果美國太空總署做不到 , 中國可能會 , 或在座的某個人可能會寫一份大支票 。
my point is this: in the long run , some news stories are more important than others .	我的重點是:長期來看 , 有些新聞故事比其他新聞更重要 。
planetary scientist carolyn porco shows images from the cassini voyage to saturn , focusing on its largest moon , titan , and on frozen enceladus , which seems to shoot jets of ice .	星球科學家carolynporco節目來自卡西尼航行到土星 , 專注在它最大的月球 , 土衛六和冰川上 , 這似乎是冰的噴射機 。
nasa , design , exploration , science , space , technology , universe , visualizations	美國太空總署、設計、探索、科學、科技、宇宙、視覺化 。
carolyn porco flies us to saturn	卡林•皮爾科把我們送到土星 。
in the next 18 minutes , i'm going to take you on a journey .	接下來的十八分鐘 , 我要帶你們踏上一段旅程 。
and it's a journey that you and i have been on for many years now , and it began some 50 years ago , when humans first stepped off our planet .	這是一段旅程 , 很多年來 , 我一直在旅行 , 50年前 , 人類第一次踏出地球 。
and in those 50 years , not only did we literally , physically set foot on the moon , but we have dispatched robotic spacecraft to all the planets all eight of them and we have landed on asteroids , we have rendezvoused with comets , and , at this point in time , we have a spacecraft on its way to pluto , the body formerly known as a planet .	在那50年裡 , 我們不僅僅是設定在月球上 , 我們還把機械太空船和其他八個行星分配到地球上 , 我們已經登陸了小行星 , 在這個時點 , 當時 , 我們有一艘太空船 , 飛到冥星上 , 人類被稱為行星 。
and all of these robotic missions are part of a bigger human journey: a voyage to understand something , to get a sense of our cosmic place , to understand something of our origins , and how earth , our planet , and we , living on it , came to be .	所有這些機械任務都是更大的人類旅程的一部分:一趟旅程 , 去了解宇宙的意義 , 去了解我們的起源 , 以及地球、地球、我們 , 都活在它上面 。
and of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this , there's saturn . and we have been to saturn before we visited saturn in the early 1980s but our investigations of saturn have become far more indepth in detail since the cassini spacecraft , traveling across interplanetary space for seven years , glided into orbit around saturn in the summer of 2004 , and became at that point the farthest robotic outpost that humanity had ever established around the sun .	在太陽系中的所有地方 , 我們可能要去尋找像這樣的問題的答案 , 土星 。 我們去過土星 。 在1980年代早期 , 我們去過土星 , 但我們對土星的調查已經變得更加深刻 , 自從卡西太空船以來 , 跨越了星際空間 , 在2004年的夏天 , 在土星周圍繞著土星繞行 , 變成了最遙遠的飛行機器人 , 人類曾經在太陽周圍建立過太陽 。
now , the saturn system is a rich planetary system .	土星系統是個豐富的星球系統 。
it offers mystery , scientific insight and obviously splendor beyond compare , and the investigation of this system has enormous cosmic reach .	它提供了神秘、科學的洞見 , 明顯地 , 除了相較之外 , 這種系統的調查之外 , 已有巨大的宇宙觸及 。
in fact , just studying the rings alone , we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies .	事實上 , 光是研究圈圈 , 我們就要學習很多關於恆星和氣體的距離 , 我們稱之為 「 螺旋星系 」 。
and here's a beautiful picture of the andromeda nebula , which is our closest , largest spiral galaxy to the milky way .	這是安德魯愛達•尼布拉的美麗照片 , 這是我們最接近的 , 最大的螺旋星系 , 到銀河系 。
and then , here's a beautiful composite of the whirlpool galaxy , taken by the hubble space telescope .	然後 , 這裡有個美麗的旋律銀河系 , 由哈伯太空望遠鏡拍攝 。
so the journey back to saturn is really part of and is also a metaphor for a much larger human voyage to understand the interconnectedness of everything around us , and also how humans fit into that picture .	所以 , 回到土星的旅程是真正的一部分 , 也是更大的人類航行的比喻 , 來了解我們周遭的所有事物的相互連結 , 以及人類如何符合這張照片 。
and it pains me that i can't tell you all that we have learned with cassini .	這讓我感到痛苦 , 我無法告訴各位 , 我們在卡西尼學到的所有東西 。
i can't show you all the beautiful pictures that we've taken in the last two and a half years , because i simply don't have the time .	我不能給你們看過去兩年半以來我們拍攝的美麗照片 , 因為我沒有時間 。
so i'm going to concentrate on two of the most exciting stories that have emerged out of this major exploratory expedition that we are conducting around saturn , and have been for the past two and a half years .	所以 , 我將專注在兩個最令人興奮的故事中 , 在這次重大的探險旅行中 , 我們在土星周圍進行了兩年半的探險 。
saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons .	土星是由非常大且多樣化的衛星組成的 。
they range in size from a few kilometers across to as big across as the u . s .	它們的大小和幾公里差不多 , 橫跨到美國 。
most of the beautiful pictures we've taken of saturn , in fact , show saturn in accompaniment with some of its moons . here's saturn with dione , and then , here's saturn showing the rings edgeon , showing you just how vertically thin they are , with the moon enceladus .	大部分我們拍攝土星的美麗照片 , 事實上 , 土星和一些月球相處 。 這是土星 , 土星和土星 , 這裡是土星 , 顯示土星邊緣是多麼微薄 , 和月土衛二 。
now , two of the 47 moons that saturn has are standouts .	現在 , 土星47顆月中有兩個是站立的 。
and those are titan and enceladus . titan is saturn's largest moon , and , until cassini had arrived there , was the largest single expanse of unexplored terrain that we had remaining in our solar system .	這些是土衛六和土衛二 。 土衛六是土星最大的月球 , 直到卡西尼到達那裡 , 是我們太陽系剩下最大一片未知的地形 。
and it is a body that has long intrigued people who've watched the planets .	它是一種身體 , 對於那些觀看行星的人 , 很有興趣 。
it has a very large , thick atmosphere , and in fact , its surface environment was believed to be more like the environment we have here on the earth , or at least had in the past , than any other body in the solar system .	它有一個非常大、厚的大氣層 , 事實上 , 它的表面環境被認為比較像我們在地球上所存在的環境 , 或至少在過去的任何一個太陽系中 。
its atmosphere is largely molecular nitrogen , like you are breathing here in this room , except that its atmosphere is suffused with simple organic materials like methane and propane and ethane .	它的大氣層大致上是分子氮 , 如你在這間房間裡呼吸 , 除了它的大氣層被簡單的有機物質所吸引 , 例如甲烷、丙烷和乙烷 。
and these molecules high up in the atmosphere of titan get broken down , and their products join together to make haze particles .	這些分子在土衛六大氣層中被破壞 , 它們的產品加入在一起 , 製造毛粒子 。
this haze is ubiquitous . it's completely global and enveloping titan .	這隻毛是無所不在的 , 完全是全球化的土衛六 。
and that's why you cannot see down to the surface with our eyes in the visible region of the spectrum .	這也是為什麼你看不到我們眼睛在光譜的可見區域看不見的原因 。
but these haze particles , it was surmised , before we got there with cassini , over billions and billions of years , gently drifted down to the surface and coated the surface in a thick organic sludge .	但這些黑色的粒子 , 被刺激了 , 在我們和卡西尼一起到那裡之前 , 數十億年來 , 溫柔地漂移到地面 , 覆蓋著厚的有機煙霧 。
so like the equivalent , the titan equivalent , of tar , or oil , or what we didn't know what .	就像泰坦一樣 , 泰坦和油 , 或我們不知道什麼 。
but this is what we suspected . and these molecules , especially methane and ethane , can be liquids at the surface temperatures of titan .	但這是我們懷疑的 。 這些分子 , 尤其是甲烷和乙烷 , 可能是泰坦的表面溫度 。
and so it turns out that methane is to titan what water is to the earth .	結果發現 , 甲烷就是土衛六的水 。
it's a condensable in the atmosphere , and so recognizing this circumstance brought to the fore a whole world of bizarre possibilities . you can have methane clouds , ok , and above those clouds , you have this hundreds of kilometers of haze , which prevent any sunlight from getting to the surface .	它在大氣層中是可以凝聚的 , 所以 , 辨識出這種情況 , 帶到整個奇異的可能性 。 你可以擁有甲烷雲 , 好 , 在雲層之上 , 你有上百公里的鐵路 , 可以防止任何陽光從水面到表面 。
the temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero fahrenheit .	表面的溫度是零下350度 。
but despite that cold , you could have rain falling down on the surface of titan .	但 , 儘管如此寒冷 , 鐵達人的表面可能會下降 。
and doing on titan what rain does on the earth: it carves gullies ; it forms rivers and cataracts ; it can create canyons ; it can pool in large basins and craters .	土衛六在地球上所做的是:它會照顧衛星 , 形成河流和加沙 ; 它可以創造峽谷 ; 它能在大盆地和坑中池塘 。
it can wash the sludge off high mountain peaks and hills , down into the lowlands . so stop and think for a minute .	它可以在高山峰和山丘上沖水 , 沖下山丘 , 停下來 , 停下來想一想 。
try to imagine what the surface of titan might look like .	試著想像泰坦的表面會是什麼樣子 。
it's dark . high noon on titan is as dark as deep earth twilight on the earth .	它是黑暗的 。 土衛六的高點和地球的深處一樣黑暗 。
it's cold , it's eerie , it's misty , it might be raining , and you might be standing on the shores of lake michigan brimming with paint thinner .	很冷 , 很糟 , 很糟 , 可能會下雨 , 你可能站在密西根湖的岸上 , 用油漆薄薄 。
that is the view that we had of the surface of titan before we got there with cassini , and i can tell you that what we have found on titan , though it is not the same in detail , is every bit as fascinating as that story is .	這是我們在土衛六和土衛六一起到那裡之前的景象 , 我可以告訴你我們在土衛六上所發現的 , 不一樣細節 , 和那個故事都一樣令人著迷 。
and for us , it has been like the cassini people it has been like a jules verne adventure come true .	對我們來說 , 它就像是卡西尼號人 , 它是真的 。
as i said , it has a thick , extensive atmosphere .	如我所說 , 它有一個厚厚的大氣層 。
this is a picture of titan , backlit by the sun , with the rings as a beautiful backdrop .	這是泰坦的照片 , 太陽的背景 , 環圈是美麗的背景 。
and yet another moon there i don't even know which one it is . it's a very extensive atmosphere .	然而 , 另外一個月球 , 我甚至不知道它是哪一個 。 這是個非常廣泛的大氣層 。
we have instruments on cassini which can see down to the surface through this atmosphere , and my camera system is one of them .	我們在卡西尼號有樂器可以透過大氣層看到表面 , 我的攝影機系統是其中之一 。
and we have taken pictures like this .	我們拍了這樣的照片 。
and what you see is bright and dark regions , and that's about as far as it got for us .	而你看到的是明亮且黑暗的區域 , 正如它為我們帶來的那樣 。
it was so mystifying: we couldn't make out what we were seeing on titan .	這實在太神秘了:我們無法在泰坦上看到我們在泰坦身上看到的 。
when you look closer at this region , you start to see things like sinuous channels we didn't know . you see a few round things .	當你仔細觀察這個區域 , 你就會開始看到一些我們不知道的東西 。 你看到一些圓形的東西 。
this , we later found out , is , in fact , a crater , but there are very few craters on the surface of titan , meaning it's a very young surface .	後來我們發現 , 其實 , 其實 , 泰坦的表面有很少的螃蟹 , 意思是它是非常年輕的表面 。
and there are features that look tectonic .	有些特徵看起來是微生物 。
they look like they've been pulled apart .	他們看起來已經被拆散了 。
whenever you see anything linear on a planet , it means there's been a fracture , like a fault .	每當你在星球上看到任何線性 , 就意味著有一種裂痕 , 像是一個斷層 。
and so it's been tectonically altered .	所以它已經改變了 。
but we couldn't make sense of our images , until , six months after we got into orbit , an event occurred that many have regarded as the highlight of cassini's investigation of titan .	但我們無法理解我們的影像 , 直到我們進入軌道六個月後 , 一個事件發生了 , 許多人被視為是卡西尼號的調查 。
and that was the deployment of the huygens probe , the europeanbuilt huygens probe that cassini had carried for seven years across the solar system . we deployed it to the atmosphere of titan , it took two and a half hours to descend , and it landed on the surface .	那是土星探測器的部署 , 歐洲航空探測器在太陽系中載了七年 。 我們把它部署到土衛六的大氣層 , 花了兩個半小時才能下降 , 降到地表上 。
and i just want to emphasize how significant an event this is .	我只是想強調這個事件有多重要 。
this is a device of human making , and it landed in the outer solar system for the first time in human history .	這是人類製造的裝置 , 它是人類史上第一次登陸太陽系 。
it is so significant that , in my mind , this was an event that should have been celebrated with ticker tape parades in every city across the u . s . and europe , and sadly , that wasn't the case .	很顯著 , 在我腦海中 , 這場活動應該要在美國和歐洲和美國和歐洲的每個城市都在慶祝 , 很遺憾 , 這不是事實 。
it was significant for another reason . this is an international mission , and this event was celebrated in europe , in germany , and the celebratory presentations were given in english accents , and american accents , and german accents , and french and italian and dutch accents .	這是另外一個原因 。 這是國際化的使命 , 這個事件在歐洲 , 在德國慶祝 , 慶祝的簡報是英文口音、美國口音、德國口音、法國人、義大利人和荷蘭口口音 。
it was a moving demonstration of what the words " united nations " are supposed to mean: a true union of nations joined together in a colossal effort for good .	它是關於聯合國 「 聯合國 」 的動作 , 應該意味著:一個真正的國家團結 , 加入了對好事的努力 。
and , in this case , it was a massive undertaking to explore a planet , and to come to understand a planetary system that , for all of human history , had been unreachable , and now humans had actually touched it .	在這個例子中 , 它是一個巨大的探索一個星球 , 為了了解一個星球系統 , 人類歷史上所有人都不可思議 , 現在人類已經觸及了它 。
so it was i mean , i'm getting goose bumps just talking about it .	所以 , 我的意思是 , 我的意思是 , 我在談它 。
it was a tremendously emotional event , and it's something that i will personally never forget , and you shouldn't either .	那是個非常情緒化的事件 , 我個人永遠不會忘記 , 你也不該忘記 。
but anyway , the probe took measurements of the atmosphere on the way down , and it also took panoramic pictures .	總之 , 探測器在向下移動 , 測量了大氣層的測量 , 同時也拍攝了全景的照片 。
and i can't tell you what it was like to see the first pictures of titan's surface from the probe . and this is what we saw .	我無法告訴各位 , 第一次從探測器上看到泰坦的表面 。 這是我們看到的 。
and it was a shocker , because it was everything we wanted those other pictures taken from orbit to be .	那是個震撼人心的 , 因為我們希望其他照片從軌道拍攝到的一切 。
it was an unambiguous pattern , a geological pattern .	這是個不可知的模式 , 一個地質模式 。
it's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids .	它是種垂直的乾燥模式 , 只靠液體流來形成 。
and you can follow these channels and you can see how they all converge .	你可以追蹤這些頻道 , 你可以看到它們如何轉換 。
and they converge into this channel here , which drains into this region .	他們把這條通道轉換成這個區域 。
you are looking at a shoreline .	你看到的是海岸線 。
was this a shoreline of fluids ? we didn't know .	這是流體的海岸線嗎 ? 我們不知道 。
but this is somewhat of a shoreline .	但這是一條海岸線的一些部分 。
this picture is taken at 16 kilometers .	這張照片是在16公里拍的 。
this is the picture taken at eight kilometers , ok ? again , the shoreline .	這張照片拍攝了8公里 , 好嗎 ? 再一次 , 海岸線 。
okay , now , 16 kilometers , eight kilometers this is roughly an airline altitude .	好 , 現在 , 16公里 , 8公里 , 大約是航空高度 。
if you were going to take an airplane trip across the u . s . , you would be flying at these altitudes .	如果你要穿越美國的飛機 , 你會在這些高度飛行 。
so , this is the picture you would have at the window of titanian airlines as you fly across the surface of titan .	這張照片是你在泰坦航空的窗戶 , 飛越泰坦的表面 。
and then finally , the probe came to rest on the surface , and i'm going to show you , ladies and gentlemen , the first picture ever taken from the surface of a moon in the outer solar system .	最後 , 探測器出現在表面上 , 各位先生女士們 , 第一個從外部太陽系的表面拍攝的照片 。
and here is the horizon , ok ?	這裡是地平線 , 好嗎 ?
these are probably water ice pebbles , yes ?	這些可能是水冰石 , 是嗎 ?
and obviously , it landed in one of these flat , dark regions and it didn't sink out of sight . so it wasn't fluid that we landed in .	很明顯地 , 它降落在一個平坦、黑暗的區域 , 它沒有被視覺淹沒 。 所以它不是我們登陸的液體 。
what the probe came down in was basically the titan equivalent of a mud flat .	探測器的成果基本上就是土衛六的平面 。
this is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane .	這是個不穩定的地面 , 上面有液態甲烷 。
and it's probably the case that this material has washed off the highlands of titan through these channels that we saw , and has drained over billions of years to fill in lowlying basins .	可能是這種物質在我們看到的這些通道上被沖下了泰坦的高地 , 經過了數十億年的水平 , 來填滿低水盆 。
and that is what the huygens probe landed in .	這就是huygens探測器登陸的目的 。
but still , there was no sign in our images , or even in the huygens' images , of any large , open bodies of fluids .	但 , 我們的影像中仍然沒有標誌 , 甚至在huygens的影像中 , 任何大型的液體 , 都有開放的液體 。
where were they ? it got even more puzzling when we found dunes .	牠們在哪裡 ? 當我們發現沙丘時 , 牠們變得更為令人困惑 。
ok , so this is our movie of the equatorial region of titan , showing these dunes . these are dunes that are 100 meters tall , separated by a few kilometers , and they go on for miles and miles and miles .	好 , 這是我們拍攝泰坦的赤道區域 , 展示這些沙丘 。 這些沙丘是一百公尺高 , 分離幾公里 , 幾公里 , 它們會持續幾英里 , 幾英里 。
there's hundreds , up to a 1 , 000 or 1 , 200 miles of dunes .	有數百、一千、二百英里的沙丘 。
this is the saharan desert of titan .	這是泰坦的撒哈拉沙漠
it's obviously a place which is very dry , or you wouldn't get dunes .	很顯然是一個非常乾燥的地方 , 或你不會得到沙丘 。
so again , it got puzzling that there were no bodies of fluid , until finally , we saw lakes in the polar regions .	再說一次 , 它有點困惑 , 沒有液體 , 直到最後 , 我們在北極地區看到湖泊 。
and there is a lake scene in the south polar region of titan .	在泰坦南極的南極地區有一個湖景 。
it's about the size of lake ontario .	大約是亞大略湖的大小 。
and then , only a week and a half ago , we flew over the north pole of titan and found , again , we found a feature here the size of the caspian sea .	然後 , 僅僅一個星期半前 , 我們飛越了泰坦北極 , 再次發現 , 我們找到了一大片的特色 , 加薩海的大小 。
so it seems that the liquids , for some reason we don't understand , or during at least this season , are apparently at the poles of titan .	所以看來 , 液體 , 是因為我們不了解的原因 , 或者至少這季 , 顯然是土衛六的兩極 。
and i think you would agree that we have found titan is a remarkable , mystical place . it's exotic , it's alien , but yet strangely earthlike , and having earthlike geological formations and a tremendous geographical diversity , and is a fascinating world whose only rival in the solar system for complexity and richness is the earth itself .	我想你會同意 , 我們發現泰坦是個不可思議、神秘的地方 。 它是外星人 , 它是外星人 , 但卻是奇怪的地質形成和一個巨大的地質多樣性 , 一個令人著迷的世界 , 為複雜和豐富度而生 。
and so now we go onto enceladus . enceladus is a small moon , it's about a tenth the size of titan . and you can see it here next to england , just to show you the size . this is not meant to be a threat .	所以現在我們來到土衛二 , 土衛二是小月球 , 大約是土衛六的尺寸 。 你可以在這裡看到它 , 向你展示大小 。 這不代表威脅 。
and enceladus is very white , it's very bright , and its surface is obviously wrecked with fractures .	土衛二是非常白的 , 它的表面很明亮 , 很明顯它的裂痕是被破碎的 。
it is a very geologically active body .	它是非常地活化的身體 。
but the mother lode of discoveries on enceladus was found at the south pole and we're looking at the south pole here where we found this system of fractures .	但土衛二的媽媽在南極發現了發現 , 我們在南極 , 發現了這個分裂的系統 。
and they're a different color because they're a different composition .	它們的顏色不同 , 因為它們是不同的組成 。
they are coated . these fractures are coated with organic materials .	它們是複製的 。 這些碎片是由有機物質組成的 。
moreover , this whole , entire region , the south polar region , has elevated temperatures . it's the hottest place on the planet , on the body .	此外 , 整個整個區域 , 南極區域 , 已經在高溫下升高 , 地球上最熱的地方 。
that's as bizarre as finding that the antarctic on the earth is hotter than the tropics .	這就像是發現地球上南極比熱帶熱得熱 。
and then , when we took additional pictures , we discovered that from these fractures are issuing jets of fine , icy particles extending hundreds of miles into space .	然後 , 當我們拿了額外的圖片 , 我們發現這些碎片是精緻的噴射機 , 冰粒會把數百英哩延伸到太空中 。
and when we colorcode this image , to bring out the faint light levels , we see that these jets feed a plume that , in fact , we see , in other images , goes thousands of miles into the space above enceladus .	當我們把這張影像編碼出來時 , 我們看到這些噴射機餵食的數量 , 事實上 , 在其它影像中 , 數千英哩進入了土衛二的太空船 。
my team and i have examined images like this , and like this one , and have thought about the other results from cassini .	我和我的團隊也檢視了像這樣的影像 , 就像這張 , 想了來自卡西尼號的其他結果 。
and we have arrived at the conclusion that these jets may be erupting from pockets of liquid water under the surface of enceladus .	而我們到了結論中 , 這些噴射可能是從土衛六表面的液態水中噴出來的 。
so we have , possibly , liquid water , organic materials and excess heat .	所以 , 我們可能有液態水、有機物質和多餘熱能 。
in other words , we have possibly stumbled upon the holy grail of modern day planetary exploration , or in other words , an environment that is potentially suitable for living organisms .	換句話說 , 我們可能已經發現了現代化日星探索的聖杯 , 或者 , 換句話說 , 一個適合生存有機體的環境 。
and i don't think i need to tell you that the discovery of life elsewhere in our solar system , whether it be on enceladus or elsewhere , would have enormous cultural and scientific implications .	我不認為我需要告訴你們 , 我們太陽系其他地方的生命發現 , 不論是在土衛二或其他地方 , 都會有巨大的文化和科學上的影響 。
because if we could demonstrate that genesis had occurred not once , but twice , independently , in our solar system , then that means , by inference , it has occurred a staggering number of times throughout the universe and its 13 . 7 billion year history .	因為如果我們能證明 , 基因有一次發生 , 不只一次 , 而是獨立的 , 在我們的太陽系中 , 那就意味著 , 由於它在宇宙中發生了很驚人的次數 , 並且它的137億年歷史 。
right now , earth is the only planet still that we know is teeming with life .	目前 , 地球是唯一的行星 , 我們仍然知道地球是充滿生命的 。
it is precious , it is unique , it is still , so far , the only home we've ever known .	它是很珍貴的 , 它是獨一無二的 , 到目前為止 , 我們所知唯一的家 。
and if any of you were alert and coherent during the 1960s and we'd forgive you , if you weren't , ok you would remember this very famous picture taken by the apollo 8 astronauts in 1968 .	如果你們之中有任何人在1960年代被警告 , 我們會原諒你們 , 如果你不在意 , 你還記得在1968年阿波羅8號太空人拍的這張很有名的照片 。
it was the first time that earth was imaged from space , and it had an enormous impact on our sense of place in the universe , and our sense of responsibility for the protection of our own planet .	那是第一次 , 地球是從太空而來的 , 它對我們在宇宙中的位置有著巨大的影響 , 以及我們對地球的保護的責任感 。
well , we on cassini have taken an equivalent first , a picture that no human eye has ever seen before .	嗯 , 我們在卡西尼號拍了一張相片 , 沒有人類眼睛見過的照片 。
it is a total eclipse of the sun , seen from the other side of saturn .	它是太陽的完整日蝕 , 從土星的另一側看到 。
and in this impossibly beautiful picture , you see the main rings backlit by the sun , you see the refracted image of the sun and you see this ring created , in fact , by the exhalations of enceladus .	在這個不可思議的圖片中 , 你可以看到太陽的主環背景 , 你可以看到太陽的轉折形象 , 你可以看到這個環 , 事實上 , 由土衛二延伸出來的延伸 。
but as if that weren't brilliant enough , we can spot , in this beautiful image , sight of our own planet , cradled in the arms of saturn's rings .	但就好像這樣 , 我們不夠聰明 , 可以在這個美麗的圖片中發現 , 我們自己的星球 , 在土星的圈中抓住它 。
now , there is something deeply moving about seeing ourselves from afar , and capturing the sight of our little , blueocean planet in the skies of other worlds .	現在 , 有件事深深地探究自己 , 從阿富汗 , 捕捉到我們小小、藍色的星球在其他世界的天空中 。
and that , and the perspective of ourselves that we gain from that , may be , in the end , the finest reward that we earn from this journey of discovery that started half a century ago .	而我們從中得到的觀點 , 可能是 , 最終 , 我們從這趟旅程中得到最好的獎賞 , 始於半個世紀前的發現 。
as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped . this slows the delivery of aid after a disaster and hides the economic potential of unused lands and unknown roads . in this short talk , google's lalitesh katragadda demos map maker , a group mapmaking tool that people around the globe are using to map their world .	至於2005年 , 世界上只有15%的人口被繪製了 。 這會減緩災難後的遞送方式 , 並隱藏無用的土地和未知的經濟潛力 。 在短短短的演說中 , 谷歌的卡達德達德達•德摩斯馬基 , 一群世界各地的人使用地圖來繪製他們的世界 。
collaboration , design , map , technology	合作、設計、地圖、技術、科技 。
lalitesh katragadda: making maps to fight disaster , build economies	萊特•卡特加達:製作地圖來對抗災難 , 建立經濟 。
in 2008 , cyclone nargis devastated myanmar .	2008年 , cyclonenagis摧毀了緬甸 。
millions of people were in severe need of help .	數百萬人受到嚴重的幫助 。
the u . n . wanted to rush people and supplies to the area .	聯合國想要壓迫人民 , 供應整個區域 。
but there were no maps , no maps of roads , no maps showing hospitals , no way for help to reach the cyclone victims .	但沒有地圖 , 沒有道路的地圖 , 沒有地圖顯示醫院 , 無法協助到達西哥受害者 。
when we look at a map of los angeles or london , it is hard to believe that as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geocodable level of detail .	當我們觀察洛杉磯或倫敦的地圖時 , 很難相信在2005年時 , 世界上只有15%的地理位置是可編碼的細節 。
the u . n . ran headfirst into a problem that the majority of the world's populous faces: not having detailed maps .	聯合國執行總部陷入一個問題 , 世界上絕大部分的臉孔:沒有細節地圖 。
but help was coming .	但 , 協助要來了 。
at google , 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120 , 000 kilometers of roads , 3 , 000 hospitals , logistics and relief points .	在google , 40個志願者用一個新的軟體來繪製120萬公里的道路 , 三千間醫院、物流和救援點 。
and it took them four days .	他們花了四天的時間 。
the new software they used ? google mapmaker .	他們使用的新軟體 ? 谷歌地圖製作人 。
google mapmaker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally .	谷歌地圖製作者是一項技術 , 讓我們每人都能在地圖上繪製我們所知的事物 。
people have used this software to map everything from roads to rivers , from schools to local businesses , and video stores to the corner store .	人們用這個軟體來繪製所有東西 , 從公路到河流、學校、當地企業 , 到角落的商店 。
nobel prize nominee hernando de soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land .	諾貝爾獎諾貝爾獎•赫南多•德索托認定 , 大部分開發中國家的經濟訴訟的關鍵是要把大量未被統治的土地標記出來 。
for example , a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapitalized in india alone .	舉例來說 , 僅僅在印度 , 一兆美元的房地產 , 還剩下無數次 。
in the last year alone , thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information , and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable .	光是去年 , 一百七十個國家就有數以百萬計的資訊 , 創造出了一系列細節 , 從來沒有想過的細節 。
and this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere .	由熱情使用者到處都是可以做到的 。
let's look at some of the maps being created by users right now .	現在讓我們來看看一些用戶製作的地圖 。
so , as we speak , people are mapping the world in these 170 countries .	如我們所說 , 在170個國家 , 人們在繪製世界 。
you can see bridget in africa who just mapped a road in senegal .	你可以看到非洲的橋樑 , 剛在塞內加爾畫了一條道路 。
and , closer to home , chalua , an n . g . road in bangalore .	離家更近 , 查盧亞 , 一個班加羅爾的ng道路 。
this is the result of computational geometry , gesture recognition , and machine learning .	這是計算幾何學的結果 , 手勢認可 , 機器學習 。
this is a victory of thousands of users , in hundreds of cities , one user , one edit at a time .	這是數以千計的使用者的勝利 , 在數百個城市 , 一個使用者 , 一個編輯 。
this is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet .	這是我們70%未開發的地球的邀請 。
welcome to the new world .	歡迎來到新世界 。
in 2003 , the palestinian village of budrus mounted a 10monthlong nonviolent protest to stop a barrier being built across their olive groves . did you hear about it ? didn't think so . brazilian filmmaker julia bacha asks why we only pay attention to violence in the israelpalestine conflict and not to the nonviolent leaders who may one day bring peace .	2003年 , 佛教村落的巴勒斯坦村落在10個月的非暴力抗爭中 , 停止了一場屏障 。 你聽說過嗎 ? 不這麼想 。 巴西製片製作者朱利亞.巴哈問我們為何只關注以色列巴拉斯坦衝突 , 而非非暴力的領導者 , 可能有一天會帶來和平 。
arts , communication , compassion , entertainment , film , peace , violence , war	藝術、溝通、同情、娛樂、電影、和平、暴力、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭 。
julia bacha: pay attention to nonviolence	朱莉亞•巴哈:專注非暴力 。
for the last 8 years , i have dedicated my life to documenting the work of israelis and palestinians who are trying to end the conflict using peaceful means .	過去8年來 , 我致力於記錄以色列和巴勒斯坦人的作品 , 他們試圖用和平的方式結束衝突 。
when i travel with my work across europe and the united states , one question always comes up: where is the palestinian gandhi ?	當我在歐洲和美國旅行時 , 有一個問題總是浮現:巴勒斯坦甘地在哪裡 ?
why aren't palestinians using nonviolent resistance ?	為什麼巴勒斯坦人不使用非暴力抗爭 ?
the challenge i face when i hear this question is that often i have just returned from the middle east where i spent my time filming dozens of palestinians who are using nonviolence to defend their lands and water resources from israeli soldiers and settlers .	當我聽到這個問題時 , 我所面臨的挑戰是 , 我經常從中東回來 , 在那裡 , 我花了幾十位巴勒斯坦人使用非暴力來捍衛他們的土地和水資源 , 來自以色列士兵和居民 。
these leaders are trying to forge a massive national nonviolent movement to end the occupation and build peace in the region .	這些領導者正試著忘記一個龐大的國家非暴力運動 , 終結這個職業 , 並在這個地區建立和平 。
yet , most of you have probably never heard about them .	然而 , 大部分人可能從來沒有聽過他們 。
this divide between what's happening on the ground and perceptions abroad is one of the key reasons why we don't have yet a palestinian peaceful resistance movement that has been successful .	這種分裂在地面和國外的認知之間的差異 , 也是為什麼我們還沒有巴勒斯坦和平抗爭運動的關鍵原因之一 。
so i'm here today to talk about the power of attention , the power of your attention , and the emergence and development of nonviolent movements in the west bank , gaza and elsewhere but today , my case study is going to be palestine .	今天我來這裡是要談關注的力量、關注的力量 , 以及非暴力運動的興起和發展西岸的非暴力運動 , 加薩和其他地方 , 但是今天 , 我的案例研究將會是巴勒斯坦 。
i believe that what's mostly missing for nonviolence to grow is not for palestinians to start adopting nonviolence , but for us to start paying attention to those who already are .	我相信 , 成長中最少缺少的非暴力行為 , 不是為了巴勒斯坦人開始採用非暴力行為 , 而是為了我們開始關注那些已經有的人 。
allow me to illustrate this point by taking you to this village called budrus .	讓我來說明一下這個點 , 把你們帶到這個叫做布德魯斯的村莊 。
about seven years ago , they faced extinction , because israel announced it would build a separation barrier , and part of this barrier would be built on top of the village .	大約七年前 , 他們面臨絕種 , 因為以色列宣佈它會建立一個隔離障礙 , 而這個障礙的一部分則是建在村子的頂端 。
they would lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded , so they would lose free access to the rest of the west bank .	他們會失去百分之四十的土地 , 圍繞著土地 , 所以他們會失去自由地取得西岸的其他銀行 。
through inspired local leadership , they launched a peaceful resistance campaign to stop that from happening .	透過啟發當地的領導力 , 他們發起了和平的抗爭活動 , 來阻止這種事發生 。
let me show you some brief clips , so you have a sense for what that actually looked like on the ground .	讓我給你們看一些簡短的片段 , 讓你們知道在地面上看起來是什麼樣子的 。
palestinian woman: we were told the wall would separate palestine from israel .	巴勒斯坦女人:我們被告知 , 牆會從以色列分離巴勒斯坦 。
here in budrus , we realized the wall would steal our land .	在布德魯斯 , 我們發現牆會偷走我們的土地 。
israeli man: the fence has , in fact , created a solution to terror .	以色列人: 「 柵欄 」 其實創造出了恐怖的解決方案 。
man: today you're invited to a peaceful march .	男子:今天你被邀請去和平遊行 。
you are joined by dozens of your israeli brothers and sisters .	你被數十個以色列兄弟和姐妹團結在一起 。
israeli activist: nothing scares the army more than nonviolent opposition .	以色列活躍主義者:軍隊沒有比非暴力的反對者還要害怕 。
woman: we saw the men trying to push the soldiers , but none of them could do that .	女人:我們看到男人試圖推動士兵 , 但他們沒有人能做到 。
but i think the girls could do it .	但我認為 , 女孩們可以做到 。
fatah party member: we must empty our minds of traditional thinking .	fatah黨員:我們必須把傳統思維的思維清醒 。
hamas party member: we were in complete harmony , and we wanted to spread it to all of palestine .	哈馬斯黨員:我們是完全和諧的 , 我們想要將它傳播給所有巴勒斯坦 。
chanting: one united nation .	查理:一國 。
fatah , hamas and the popular front !	fatah , 哈馬斯和流行的前面 !
news anchor: the clashes over the fence continue .	新聞主持人:這句話持續下去 。
reporter: israeli border police were sent to disperse the crowd .	記者:以色列邊界警察被送去散播群眾 。
they were allowed to use any force necessary .	他們被允許使用任何武力 。
man: these are live bullets .	男子:這是現場的預算 。
it's like fallujah . shooting everywhere .	這就像是夏洛伊賈 , 無所不在 。
israeli activist: i was sure we were all going to die .	以色列活躍主義者:我相信我們都會死 。
but there were others around me who weren't even cowering .	但在我身邊 , 有些人甚至還沒有更新 。
israeli soldier: a nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear] .	以色列士兵:非暴力抗爭將無法阻止[不清楚]
protester: this is a peaceful march .	蛋白質:這是和平的遊行 。
there is no need to use violence .	沒有必要使用暴力 。
chanting: we can do it ! we can do it !	查理:我們能做到 ! 我們能做到 !
julia bacha: when i first heard about the story of budrus , i was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago , in 2003 .	朱莉亞•巴哈:當我第一次聽到布德魯斯的故事時 , 我很訝異國際媒體沒有報導七年前發生的非凡事件 , 在2003年 。
what was even more surprising was the fact that budrus was successful .	更令人驚訝的是 , 布德魯斯成功的事實 。
the residents , after 10 months of peaceful resistance , convinced the israeli government to move the route of the barrier off their lands and to the green line , which is the internationally recognized boundary between israel and the palestinian territories .	居民經過了10個月的和平抗爭 , 說服了以色列政府在他們的土地和綠色的路徑 , 以色列和巴勒斯坦的領土之間的界線 。
the resistance in budrus has since spread to villages across the west bank and to palestinian neighborhoods in jerusalem .	布德魯斯的抗爭自從散播到西岸的村莊 , 到巴勒斯坦的耶路撒冷社區 。
yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories .	然而 , 媒體仍保留在這些故事上 。
this silence carries profound consequences for the likelihood that nonviolence can grow , or even survive , in palestine .	這種沉默的後果對非暴力的可能性有很大的影響 , 甚至是巴勒斯坦的生存 。
violent resistance and nonviolent resistance share one very important thing in common ; they are both a form of theater seeking an audience to their cause .	暴力抗爭和非暴力抗爭分享了一件非常重要的共通事 ; 兩者都是劇場尋求他們的成因 。
if violent actors are the only ones constantly getting frontpage covers and attracting international attention to the palestinian issue , it becomes very hard for nonviolent leaders to make the case to their communities that civil disobedience is a viable option in addressing their plight .	如果暴力演員是唯一不斷地在前線報導 , 吸引國際關注巴勒斯坦議題 , 那對非暴力的領袖來說是非常困難的 , 讓他們的公民不服從的社區成為一個可行的選項 , 來解決他們的困境 。
the power of attention is probably going to come as no surprise to the parents in the room .	注意力的力量可能對房間裡的父母毫無意外 。
the surest way to make your child throw increasingly louder tantrums is by giving him attention the first time he throws a fit .	要讓孩子們更大聲地丟下幻肢的確是讓他第一次注意到他丟下一套裝置 。
the tantrum will become what childhood psychologists call a functional behavior , since the child has learned that he can get parental attention out of it .	突破會變成童年心理學家所謂的功能性行為 , 因為孩子學到他可以從中得到父母的注意力 。
parents can incentivize or disincentivize behavior simply by giving or withdrawing attention to their children .	父母能激勵或激勵行為 , 單單單是給予孩子的注意力或戒斷 。
but that's true for adults too .	但對成年人來說也是如此 。
in fact , the behavior of entire communities and countries can be influenced , depending on where the international community chooses to focus its attention .	事實上 , 整個社區和國家的行為可能會受到影響 , 取決於國際社會選擇集中其注意力的地方 。
i believe that at the core of ending the conflict in the middle east and bringing peace is for us to transform nonviolence into a functional behavior by giving a lot more attention to the nonviolent leaders on the ground today .	我相信 , 在結束中東衝突的核心 , 帶來和平的核心 , 是讓我們把非暴力轉化為一個功能的行為 , 讓非暴力領導者更加關注現今在地面上的非暴力領導者 。
in the course of taking my film to villages in the west bank , in gaza and in east jerusalem , i have seen the impact that even one documentary film can have in influencing the transformation .	在拍攝我在西岸的村莊、在加薩和東耶路撒冷的過程中 , 我看到了一部紀錄片的影響 , 甚至有一部紀錄片可以影響到轉變 。
in a village called wallajeh , which sits very close to jerusalem , the community was facing a very similar plight to budrus .	在一個叫做瓦拉吉的村莊 , 非常靠近耶路撒冷 , 社區正面臨著非常相似的困境 。
they were going to be surrounded , lose a lot of their lands and not have freedom of access , either to the west bank or jerusalem .	他們會被圍繞著 , 失去了許多土地 , 且沒有自由的權利 , 不論是西岸或耶路撒冷 。
they had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention .	他們已經用了兩年的非暴力行為 , 但從沒有人注意到他們 。
so we organized a screening .	所以 , 我們組織了一支螢幕 。
a week later , they held the most wellattended and disciplined demonstration to date .	一週後 , 他們舉辦了最好且最精準的示範 , 到達日 。
the organizers say that the villagers , upon seeing the story of budrus documented in a film , felt that there were indeed people following what they were doing , that people cared .	組織者說 , 村民們 , 看到布德魯斯在電影中記錄下來的故事 , 感覺確實有人追蹤他們在做什麼 , 人們關心他們 。
so they kept on going .	所以他們繼續下去 。
on the israeli side , there is a new peace movement called solidariot , which means solidarity in hebrew .	在以色列 , 有一種新的和平運動 , 叫做索里達特 , 意思是希伯來語的團結 。
the leaders of this movement have been using budrus as one of their primary recruiting tools .	這種運動的領導者 , 用布德魯斯作為他們主要的招募工具之一 。
they report that israelis who had never been active before , upon seeing the film , understand the power of nonviolence and start joining their activities .	他們報導以色列以前從未活躍過 , 看到電影 , 了解非暴力的力量 , 開始加入他們的活動 。
the examples of wallajeh and the solidariot movement show that even a smallbudget independent film can play a role in transforming nonviolence into a functional behavior .	瓦拉雅和索里運動的例子顯示即使是一部小型的預算獨立電影也能扮演非暴力行為的角色 。
now imagine the power that big media players could have if they started covering the weekly nonviolent demonstrations happening in villages like bil'in , ni'lin , wallajeh , in jerusalem neighborhoods like sheikh jarrah and silwan the nonviolent leaders would become more visible , valued and effective in their work .	現在 , 想像一下 , 大型媒體玩家可以擁有的力量 , 如果他們開始在村落中 , 像布林、尼林、瓦拉賈、耶路撒冷社區 , 和西瓦納 , 非暴力的領導者 , 在他們的作品中 , 會變得更有價值、更有效 。
i believe that the most important thing is to understand that if we don't pay attention to these efforts , they are invisible , and it's as if they never happened .	我相信最重要的是要了解 , 如果我們不關心這些努力 , 它們是看不見的 , 就好像從來沒有發生過 。
but i have seen first hand that if we do , they will multiply .	但是我首先看過如果我們這麼做 , 它們會乘以倍數 。
if they multiply , their influence will grow in the overall israelipalestinian conflict .	如果他們乘以 , 他們的影響力會在以色列巴勒斯坦的衝突中成長 。
and theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation .	而他們就是一種影響力 , 終於可以解開這個情境 。
these leaders have proven that nonviolence works in places like budrus .	這些領袖已經證明了非暴力在像布德魯斯這樣的地方工作 。
let's give them attention so they can prove it works everywhere .	讓我們給予他們注意力 , 讓他們可以證明它在哪裡運作 。
simon sinek has a simple but powerful model for inspirational leadership all starting with a golden circle and the question " why ? " his examples include apple , martin luther king , and the wright brothers . . .	simmonsinek有一個簡單又強大的鼓舞性領導模式 , 始於黃金圓和問題 「 為什麼 ? 」 他的例子包括蘋果、馬丁路德金和萊特兄弟......
bullseye , business , entrepreneur , leadership , sales , selling , success	布洛西、商業、企業家、領導力、銷售、成功、成功、成功 。
simon sinek: how great leaders inspire action	simonsinek:偉大的領導人有多大的啟發 。
how do you explain when things don't go as we assume ?	要怎麼解釋當事情不如我們所想的那樣時 , 你要怎麼解釋 ?
or better , how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions ?	或者 , 更好的是 , 你要如何解釋 , 當其他人能達到所有假設時 , 看似無解的事物 ?
for example: why is apple so innovative ?	例如:為什麼蘋果電腦如此創新 ?
year after year , after year , after year , they're more innovative than all their competition .	年復一年 , 年復一年 , 比起所有的競爭都來得更創新 。
and yet , they're just a computer company .	然而 , 他們只是一家電腦公司 。
they're just like everyone else .	他們和其他人一樣 。
they have the same access to the same talent , the same agencies , the same consultants , the same media .	他們有相同的才華、相同的機構、相同的顧問、相同的媒體 。
then why is it that they seem to have something different ?	爲什麽他們似乎有所不同 ?
why is it that martin luther king led the civil rights movement ?	為什麼馬丁路德•金恩領導民權運動 ?
he wasn't the only man who suffered in a precivil rights america , and he certainly wasn't the only great orator of the day .	他不是唯一在美國處於前驅權利的人 , 他肯定不是那天唯一的偉大管道 。
and why is it that the wright brothers were able to figure out controlled , powered man flight when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified , better funded . . .	為何萊特兄弟能夠想出掌控、發電飛行的力量 , 尤其是其他比較好的團隊 , 更好的資金......
and they didn't achieve powered man flight , and the wright brothers beat them to it .	他們沒有實現人飛行 , 萊特兄弟打敗了他們 。
there's something else at play here .	這裡還有其他東西 。
about three and a half years ago i made a discovery .	大約三年半前 , 我發現了一項發現 。
and this discovery profoundly changed my view on how i thought the world worked , and it even profoundly changed the way in which i operate in it .	這項發現深深地改變了我的看法 , 改變了我認為世界是如何運作的 , 甚至徹底改變了我在其中工作的方式 。
as it turns out , there's a pattern .	結果發現 , 有一個模式 。
as it turns out , all the great and inspiring leaders and organizations in the world whether it's apple or martin luther king or the wright brothers they all think , act and communicate the exact same way .	結果發現 , 世界上所有偉大、鼓舞人心的領導人和組織 , 無論是蘋果或馬丁•路德•金或他們所認為的萊特兄弟 , 採取行動 , 並以相同的方式溝通 。
and it's the complete opposite to everyone else .	與其他人完全相反 。
all i did was codify it , and it's probably the world's simplest idea .	我所做的就是編寫它 , 它可能是世界上最簡單的點子 。
i call it the golden circle .	我稱它為黃金圈 。
why ? how ? what ?	為什麼 ? 怎麼辦 ?
this little idea explains why some organizations and some leaders are able to inspire where others aren't .	這個小想法解釋了為什麼有些組織和一些領導人能夠鼓舞別人不在哪裡 。
let me define the terms really quickly .	讓我很快地定義這個詞 。
every single person , every single organization on the planet knows what they do , 100 percent .	地球上每一個組織都知道他們做什麼 , 百分之百 。
some know how they do it , whether you call it your differentiated value proposition or your proprietary process or your usp .	有些人知道他們是怎麼做到的 , 不管你稱之為你的不同價值觀提議 , 或你的特殊程序 。
but very , very few people or organizations know why they do what they do .	但很少人或組織知道他們為何要做這些事 。
and by " why " i don't mean " to make a profit . "	藉由 「 為什麼 」 我不是說 「 賺取利潤 」 。
that's a result . it's always a result .	結果是 , 結果總是如此 。
by " why , " i mean: what's your purpose ?	所謂 「 為什麼 」 我的意思是:你的目的是什麼 ?
what's your cause ? what's your belief ?	你的原因是什麼 ? 你的信念是什麼 ?
why does your organization exist ?	為什麼你的組織存在 ?
why do you get out of bed in the morning ?	為什麼你早上要離開床 ?
and why should anyone care ?	為什麼有人要關心呢 ?
well , as a result , the way we think , the way we act , the way we communicate is from the outside in .	結果是 , 我們思考的方式 , 我們的行為方式 , 我們的溝通方式來自外界 。
it's obvious . we go from the clearest thing to the fuzziest thing .	很明顯 , 我們從最清晰的物體到最炫的物體 。
but the inspired leaders and the inspired organizations regardless of their size , regardless of their industry all think , act and communicate from the inside out .	但激勵人心的領袖和激勵人心的組織 , 不管他們的大小 , 不管他們的產業都在想 , 行動和溝通 。
let me give you an example .	讓我舉個例子 。
i use apple because they're easy to understand and everybody gets it .	我用蘋果電腦是因為它們很容易理解 , 每個人都懂 。
if apple were like everyone else , a marketing message from them might sound like this: " we make great computers .	如果蘋果跟其他人一樣 , 行銷訊息可能會像這樣: 「 我們會製造出很棒的電腦 。
they're beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	他們設計得很漂亮 , 很簡單 , 很友善地使用 。
want to buy one ? " " meh . "	想要買一台嗎 ? " 梅 。 "
and that's how most of us communicate .	這就是我們大多數人溝通的方式 。
that's how most marketing is done , that's how most sales is done and that's how most of us communicate interpersonally .	這就是多數行銷的方式 , 多數銷售方式就是這樣運作的 , 這是我們大多數人之間的交流方式 。
we say what we do , we say how we're different or how we're better and we expect some sort of a behavior , a purchase , a vote , something like that .	我們會說我們怎麼做 , 我們說我們是不同的 , 或我們比較好 , 我們期待某種行為、購買、投票 , 等等 。
here's our new law firm: we have the best lawyers with the biggest clients , we always perform for our clients who do business with us .	這是我們的新法律公司:我們有最好的律師和最大的客戶 , 我們總是為我們的客戶做生意 。
here's our new car: it gets great gas mileage , it has leather seats , buy our car .	這是我們的新車:它有很大的氣體里程序 , 它有皮革座椅 , 買我們的車 。
here's how apple actually communicates .	蘋果是這樣溝通的 。
" everything we do , we believe in challenging the status quo .	「 我們所做的一切 , 我們相信挑戰現狀 。
we believe in thinking differently .	我們相信不同的思考方式 。
the way we challenge the status quo is by making our products beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	我們挑戰現狀的方式是把我們的產品設計得很漂亮 , 很簡單 , 很友善 。
we just happen to make great computers .	我們剛好創造了很棒的電腦 。
want to buy one ? "	想要買一台嗎 ? 」
totally different right ? you're ready to buy a computer from me .	完全不一樣吧 ? 你準備好要從我身上買一台電腦 。
all i did was reverse the order of the information .	我所做的就是反轉資訊的順序 。
what it proves to us is that people don't buy what you do ; people buy why you do it .	它向我們證明 , 人們不買你做什麼 ; 人們買你為什麼要買 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要買 。
this explains why every single person in this room is perfectly comfortable buying a computer from apple .	這解釋了為什麼在座的每個人都很自在地買蘋果電腦 。
but we're also perfectly comfortable buying an mp3 player from apple , or a phone from apple , or a dvr from apple .	但我們也非常自在地買蘋果電腦的mp3播放器 , 或是蘋果電腦的手機 。
but , as i said before , apple's just a computer company .	但 , 就像我之前說的 , 蘋果只是一家電腦公司 。
there's nothing that distinguishes them structurally from any of their competitors .	沒有任何東西可以從任何競爭對手中分辨它們 。
their competitors are all equally qualified to make all of these products .	他們的競爭對手都同樣合格製造這些產品 。
in fact , they tried .	事實上 , 他們試過了 。
a few years ago , gateway came out with flat screen tvs .	幾年前 , 高速公路上有著平面的螢幕電視 。
they're eminently qualified to make flat screen tvs .	他們真的有資格製造平面螢幕電視 。
they've been making flat screen monitors for years .	他們數年來都在製造平面螢幕監視器 。
dell came out with mp3 players and pdas , and they make great quality products , and they can make perfectly welldesigned products and nobody bought one .	德拉爾帶著mp3個球員和pdas出去 , 他們做出了很棒的產品 , 可以做出完美的產品 , 沒有人買過 。
in fact , talking about it now , we can't even imagine buying an mp3 player from dell .	事實上 , 談到現在 , 我們甚至無法想像 , 買一台mp3的演員 。
why would you buy an mp3 player from a computer company ?	為什麼你會從電腦公司買一個mp3的玩家 ?
but we do it every day .	但我們每天都在做這件事 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要買 。
the goal is not to do business with everybody who needs what you have .	目標不是和任何需要你所擁有的所有人做生意 。
the goal is to do business with people who believe what you believe .	目標是要和那些相信你所相信的人做生意 。
here's the best part: none of what i'm telling you is my opinion .	最好的部分是:沒有一個我告訴你們的是我的意見 。
it's all grounded in the tenets of biology .	這一切都在生物學的網絡裡 。
not psychology , biology .	不是心理學 , 生物學 。
if you look at a crosssection of the human brain , looking from the top down , what you see is the human brain is actually broken into three major components that correlate perfectly with the golden circle .	如果你看人腦的十字路口 , 從上看 , 向下看 , 你會發現 , 人類的大腦其實是分成三個主要的元件 , 與黃金循環完全相連 。
our newest brain , our homo sapien brain , our neocortex , corresponds with the " what " level .	我們最新的大腦 , 我們的人類大腦 , 我們的新皮質 , 和 「 什麼 」 的 「 什麼 」 有關 。
the neocortex is responsible for all of our rational and analytical thought and language .	新皮質負責我們所有的理性和分析思考和語言 。
the middle two sections make up our limbic brains , and our limbic brains are responsible for all of our feelings , like trust and loyalty .	中間兩個區塊構成我們的肢體大腦 , 我們的肢體大腦對我們所有的感受負責 , 比如信任和忠誠 。
it's also responsible for all human behavior , all decisionmaking , and it has no capacity for language .	對於所有人類的行為 , 所有決策 , 都有責任 , 也沒有語言的能力 。
in other words , when we communicate from the outside in , yes , people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features and benefits and facts and figures .	換句話說 , 當我們從外面溝通時 , 是的 , 人們可以了解大量複雜的資訊 , 比如特徵、好處、事實和數字 。
it just doesn't drive behavior .	它不會驅動行為 。
when we can communicate from the inside out , we're talking directly to the part of the brain that controls behavior , and then we allow people to rationalize it with the tangible things we say and do .	當我們能從內部傳達出來 , 我們直接和控制行為的大腦對話 , 接著 , 我們允許人們將它與我們所說的具體事物作出關聯 。
this is where gut decisions come from .	這是腸道決策的來源 。
you know , sometimes you can give somebody all the facts and figures , and they say , " i know what all the facts and details say , but it just doesn't feel right . "	有時 , 你可以給別人所有事實和數字 , 他們會說: 「 我知道所有事實和細節是什麼 , 但感覺不對 。 」
why would we use that verb , it doesn't " feel " right ?	為什麼我們會用這個動詞 , 它不會 「 感覺 」 ?
because the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking doesn't control language .	因為大腦控制決策的部分無法控制語言 。
and the best we can muster up is , " i don't know . it just doesn't feel right . "	最好的一點是: 「 我不知道 , 感覺不對 。 」
or sometimes you say you're leading with your heart , or you're leading with your soul .	或者有時你會說你正帶著你的心 , 或者你正帶著你的靈魂 。
well , i hate to break it to you , those aren't other body parts controlling your behavior .	嗯 , 我討厭打破它 , 那些不是控制你的行為的其他身體部件 。
it's all happening here in your limbic brain , the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking and not language .	這一切都發生在你的邊緣大腦中 , 控制決策的大腦的一部分 , 而非語言 。
but if you don't know why you do what you do , and people respond to why you do what you do , then how will you ever get people to vote for you , or buy something from you , or , more importantly , be loyal and want to be a part of what it is that you do .	但如果你不知道你為什麼要做你做的事 , 人們會回應你為什麼要做的事 , 那麼你要如何讓人們投票給你 , 或是從你身上買東西 , 或者 , 更重要的是 , 忠誠 , 想要成為你所做的一部分 。
again , the goal is not just to sell to people who need what you have ; the goal is to sell to people who believe what you believe .	同樣的 , 目標不只是賣給需要你所擁有的人們 ; 目標是賣給那些相信你所相信的人們 。
the goal is not just to hire people who need a job ; it's to hire people who believe what you believe .	目標不只是要僱用需要工作的人 , 而是要僱用那些相信你所相信的人 。
i always say that , you know , if you hire people just because they can do a job , they'll work for your money , but if you hire people who believe what you believe , they'll work for you with blood and sweat and tears .	我總是說 , 如果你雇用人 , 只因為他們可以幫忙 , 他們會為你的錢工作 , 但如果你雇用那些相信你所相信的人 , 他們會幫你血汗和淚水工作 。
and nowhere else is there a better example of this than with the wright brothers .	除了萊特兄弟之外 , 還有一個更好的例子 。
most people don't know about samuel pierpont langley .	大部分的人都不知道samuelperpontlangley 。
and back in the early 20th century , the pursuit of powered man flight was like the dot com of the day .	回到二十世紀初期 , 電力飛行的追求 , 彷彿是一天的點 。
everybody was trying it .	每個人都在嘗試 。
and samuel pierpont langley had , what we assume , to be the recipe for success .	而samuelperpontlangley所說的 , 我們所假設的 , 是成功的秘方 。
i mean , even now , you ask people , " why did your product or why did your company fail ? "	我是說 , 即使現在 , 你問人們: 「 為什麼你的產品是不是你的公司會失敗 ? 」
and people always give you the same permutation of the same three things: undercapitalized , the wrong people , bad market conditions .	人們總是給你同樣的三樣東西的看法:在不好的人、不好的人、不好的市場狀況下 。
it's always the same three things , so let's explore that .	一直都是一樣的三樣東西 , 咱們來探究它 。
samuel pierpont langley was given 50 , 000 dollars by the war department to figure out this flying machine .	samuelpierpontlangley給了五萬美元 , 由戰爭部門來找出這台飛行機器 。
money was no problem .	錢不是問題 。
he held a seat at harvard and worked at the smithsonian and was extremely wellconnected ; he knew all the big minds of the day .	他在哈佛的一席工作 , 在史密森人工作 , 當時非常緊張 ; 他知道每天的大頭腦 。
he hired the best minds money could find and the market conditions were fantastic .	他雇用最好的心智 , 可以找到 , 而市場條件很棒 。
the new york times followed him around everywhere , and everyone was rooting for langley .	紐約時報隨後都跟著他 , 每個人都在為langley發聲 。
then how come we've never heard of samuel pierpont langley ?	那麼 , 我們從來沒有聽過samuelperpontlangley ?
a few hundred miles away in dayton ohio , orville and wilbur wright , they had none of what we consider to be the recipe for success .	在俄亥俄州的幾百英哩外 , 奧維爾和威爾布萊特 , 他們沒有我們認為是成功的食譜 。
they had no money ; they paid for their dream with the proceeds from their bicycle shop ; not a single person on the wright brothers' team had a college education , not even orville or wilbur ; and the new york times followed them around nowhere .	他們沒有錢 ; 他們付出了他們的夢想 , 付出他們自自行車店的成功 ; 不是一個在萊特兄弟的團隊裡的單人 , 沒有大學生 , 甚至是維爾或威爾布爾 ; 紐約時報隨後都跟著他們 。
the difference was , orville and wilbur were driven by a cause , by a purpose , by a belief .	不同之處在於 , 奧維爾和威爾布爾被一個原因所驅使 , 由一個信念所驅使 。
they believed that if they could figure out this flying machine , it'll change the course of the world .	他們相信如果他們能弄清楚這台飛行機器 , 就會改變世界的軌道 。
samuel pierpont langley was different .	samuelpierpontlangley不同 。
he wanted to be rich , and he wanted to be famous .	他想要富有 , 他想要有名 。
he was in pursuit of the result .	他在追求結果 。
he was in pursuit of the riches .	他在追求財富 。
and lo and behold , look what happened .	看看發生了什麼事 。
the people who believed in the wright brothers' dream worked with them with blood and sweat and tears .	那些相信萊特兄弟的夢想的人和他們一起工作 , 充滿血汗和淚水 。
the others just worked for the paycheck .	其他人只是為了付款而工作 。
and they tell stories of how every time the wright brothers went out , they would have to take five sets of parts , because that's how many times they would crash before they came in for supper .	他們會說故事 , 每當萊特兄弟出去時 , 他們就要採取五組零件 , 因為那是他們在供應商之前會碰到多少次 。
and , eventually , on december 17th , 1903 , the wright brothers took flight , and no one was there to even experience it .	最後 , 在1903年12月17日 , 萊特兄弟拿了飛機 , 沒有人會在那裡體驗它 。
we found out about it a few days later .	幾天後我們發現了它 。
and further proof that langley was motivated by the wrong thing: the day the wright brothers took flight , he quit .	更進一步證明 , 拉格利被錯誤的動機給激勵了:萊特兄弟拍飛機的那天 , 他辭掉了 。
he could have said , " that's an amazing discovery , guys , and i will improve upon your technology , " but he didn't .	他可以說: 「 這是個很棒的發現 , 各位 , 我會改善你的技術 。 」 但他沒有 。
he wasn't first , he didn't get rich , he didn't get famous so he quit .	他不是首先 , 他沒有變富有 , 他沒有變有名 , 所以他放棄 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要買 。
and if you talk about what you believe , you will attract those who believe what you believe .	如果你談到你所相信的 , 你會吸引那些相信你所相信的人 。
but why is it important to attract those who believe what you believe ?	但為何要吸引那些相信你所相信的人呢 ?
something called the law of diffusion of innovation , and if you don't know the law , you definitely know the terminology .	一種叫做創新法則的擴散法則 , 如果你不知道法律 , 你絕對知道術語 。
the first two and a half percent of our population are our innovators .	前兩半的人口是我們的創新者 。
the next 13 and a half percent of our population are our early adopters .	接下來的13.5%的人口是我們早期的選民 。
the next 34 percent are your early majority , your late majority and your laggards .	接下來的34%是你早期的大多數人 , 你的後代和你們的大部份人 。
the only reason these people buy touch tone phones is because you can't buy rotary phones anymore .	只有這些人買到手機的唯一理由 , 是因為你再也買不到腐敗手機了 。
we all sit at various places at various times on this scale , but what the law of diffusion of innovation tells us is that if you want massmarket success or massmarket acceptance of an idea , you cannot have it until you achieve this tipping point between 15 and 18 percent market penetration , and then the system tips .	我們都坐在不同的時間點 , 但創新的擴散法則告訴我們 , 如果你想要大眾的成功或大眾的接受 , 你就無法做到直到你達到了15%到18%的市場損失 , 然後體制的秘訣 。
and i love asking businesses , " what's your conversion on new business ? "	我喜歡問企業: 「 你對新商業的看法是什麼 ? 」
and they love to tell you , " oh , it's about 10 percent , " proudly .	他們很樂意跟你說: 「 喔 , 大概是10% 。 」
well , you can trip over 10 percent of the customers .	嗯 , 你可以超過百分之十的客戶 。
we all have about 10 percent who just " get it . "	我們都有大約百分之十的 「 去做 」 。
that's how we describe them , right ?	我們就是這樣描述他們 , 對吧 ?
that's like that gut feeling , " oh , they just get it . "	那就像是那種感覺: 「 喔 , 他們就懂了 。 」
the problem is: how do you find the ones that get it before you're doing business with them versus the ones who don't get it ?	問題是:你要如何找到在你和他們做生意之前得到的那些人 , 而不是那些沒拿到的那些人 ?
so it's this here , this little gap that you have to close , as jeffrey moore calls it , " crossing the chasm " because , you see , the early majority will not try something until someone else has tried it first .	這裡是這個小小的鴻溝 , 正如jeffreymoore稱之為 「 跨越混亂 」 , 因為 , 早期的大多數人都不會嘗試直到別人先試過 。
and these guys , the innovators and the early adopters , they're comfortable making those gut decisions .	而這些人 , 創新者和早期採用者 , 他們很舒適地做出那些腸道決策 。
they're more comfortable making those intuitive decisions that are driven by what they believe about the world and not just what product is available .	他們比較自在地做出他們所相信的世界的直覺決定 , 而不是產品是可取得的 。
these are the people who stood in line for six hours to buy an iphone when they first came out , when you could have just walked into the store the next week and bought one off the shelf .	這些人站在線上六個小時買一台iphone , 剛剛出門時 , 才剛剛走進商店 , 再下週買下一台商品 。
these are the people who spent 40 , 000 dollars on flat screen tvs when they first came out , even though the technology was substandard .	這些人花了四萬美金在平面螢幕上第一次出櫃 , 即便科技是潛在的 。
and , by the way , they didn't do it because the technology was so great ; they did it for themselves .	順便一提 , 他們並沒有這麼做 , 因為這項技術很棒 , 他們為自己做這件事 。
it's because they wanted to be first .	是因為他們想要先做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it and what you do simply proves what you believe .	人們不買你做的事 , 他們買你做的事 , 只是證明你相信什麼 。
in fact , people will do the things that prove what they believe .	事實上 , 人們會做他們所相信的事 。
the reason that person bought the iphone in the first six hours , stood in line for six hours , was because of what they believed about the world , and how they wanted everybody to see them: they were first .	六個小時內 , 買了iphone的原因是六個小時 , 站在線上 , 是因為他們相信這個世界的信念 , 以及他們希望每個人看他們:他們是第一名 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要買 。
so let me give you a famous example , a famous failure and a famous success of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我給你一個有名的例子 , 一個有名的失敗 , 以及一個有名的創新法則的成功 。
first , the famous failure .	首先 , 著名的失敗 。
it's a commercial example .	這是個商業例子 。
as we said before , a second ago , the recipe for success is money and the right people and the right market conditions , right ? you should have success then .	如我們先前所說 , 成功的食譜是金錢和對的人和對的市場條件 , 對吧 ? 你應該要成功 。
from the time tivo came out about eight or nine years ago to this current day , they are the single highestquality product on the market , hands down , there is no dispute .	八、九年前 , 蒂夫出櫃時 , 他們是市場上最高品質的產品 , 手下 , 沒有爭議 。
they were extremely wellfunded .	他們非常富裕 。
market conditions were fantastic .	市場條件很棒 。
i mean , we use tivo as verb .	我的意思是 , 我們用tivo作為動詞 。
i tivo stuff on my piece of junk time warner dvr all the time .	我一直都在垃圾時空的dvr上綁著東西 。
but tivo's a commercial failure .	但tivo是一個商業失敗 。
they've never made money .	他們從來沒有賺錢 。
and when they went ipo , their stock was at about 30 or 40 dollars and then plummeted , and it's never traded above 10 .	當他們來到ipo時 , 他們的股票大約有三到四十元 , 然後爆炸 , 從來沒有在十元以上交易 。
in fact , i don't think it's even traded above six , except for a couple of little spikes .	事實上 , 我不認為它在六歲以上交易 , 除非有幾個小煙霧 。
because you see , when tivo launched their product they told us all what they had .	因為你看 , 當tivo發佈他們的產品時 , 他們告訴我們他們所擁有的一切 。
they said , " we have a product that pauses live tv , skips commercials , rewinds live tv and memorizes your viewing habits without you even asking . "	他們說: 「 我們有一個產品 , 暫停電視、跳過商業廣告、改造現場的電視 , 不需要你問 。 」
and the cynical majority said , " we don't believe you .	而憤世嫉俗的大多數人說: 「 我們不相信你 。
we don't need it . we don't like it .	我們不需要它 。 我們不喜歡它 。
you're scaring us . "	你害怕我們 。 」
what if they had said , " if you're the kind of person who likes to have total control over every aspect of your life , boy , do we have a product for you .	如果他們說: 「 如果你是那種想要完全控制你人生的各個面向 , 男孩 , 我們是否能為你做一個產品 。
it pauses live tv , skips commercials , memorizes your viewing habits , etc . , etc . "	它會暫停現場電視、滑雪廣告、記憶你的觀點習慣等等 。 」
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it , and what you do simply serves as the proof of what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要做 , 而你做的只是證明你相信什麼 。
now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation .	現在 , 讓我給你們一個成功的例子 , 關於創新的擴散法則 。
in the summer of 1963 , 250 , 000 people showed up on the mall in washington to hear dr . king speak .	在1963年夏天 , 有25萬人出現在華盛頓的商場上 , 聽見金恩博士演講 。
they sent out no invitations , and there was no website to check the date .	他們沒有邀請 , 沒有網站可以檢查日期 。
how do you do that ?	你要怎麼做呢 ?
well , dr . king wasn't the only man in america who was a great orator .	金恩博士不是美國唯一一個偉大的獨裁者 。
he wasn't the only man in america who suffered in a precivil rights america .	他不是美國唯一受過預防權的美國人 。
in fact , some of his ideas were bad .	事實上 , 他的一些想法很糟 。
but he had a gift .	但他有一個禮物 。
he didn't go around telling people what needed to change in america .	他沒有到處告訴人們 , 在美國 , 要改變什麼 。
he went around and told people what he believed .	他四處 , 告訴人們他所相信的 。
" i believe , i believe , i believe , " he told people .	「 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 , 」 他告訴別人 。
and people who believed what he believed took his cause , and they made it their own , and they told people .	那些相信他所相信的 , 取決於他的成因 , 他們創造了自己的成果 , 他們告訴別人 。
and some of those people created structures to get the word out to even more people .	其中一些人創造了結構 , 讓更多人發聲 。
and lo and behold , 250 , 000 people showed up on the right day at the right time to hear him speak .	沒錯 , 兩萬五萬人在正確的日子裡站起來 , 聽他說話 。
how many of them showed up for him ?	他們當中有多少人會為他出席 ?
they showed up for themselves .	他們為自己出席 。
it's what they believed about america that got them to travel in a bus for eight hours to stand in the sun in washington in the middle of august .	這是他們相信美國讓他們在八月中行進巴士的八個小時 , 站在太陽中央的華盛頓 。
it's what they believed , and it wasn't about black versus white: 25 percent of the audience was white .	這是他們所相信的 , 不是關於黑人和白人:25%的觀眾是白人 。
dr . king believed that there are two types of laws in this world: those that are made by a higher authority and those that are made by man .	金恩博士相信這世界上有兩種法則:那些被一個更高權威所制定的法律 , 那些是由男人所製造的 。
and not until all the laws that are made by man are consistent with the laws that are made by the higher authority will we live in a just world .	除非所有由人類所建立的法律 , 都是由高權威所制定的法律 , 我們會住在一個公義的世界 。
it just so happened that the civil rights movement was the perfect thing to help him bring his cause to life .	就這樣發生了 , 民權運動是最好的一件事 , 協助他把他的成因帶到人生中 。
we followed , not for him , but for ourselves .	我們追隨 , 不是為了他 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and , by the way , he gave the " i have a dream " speech , not the " i have a plan " speech .	順便一提 , 他給了 「 我有一個夢想 」 演講 , 不是 「 我有一個計畫 」 演講 。
listen to politicians now , with their comprehensive 12point plans .	現在傾聽政治人物 , 用他們全面的12點計畫 。
they're not inspiring anybody .	他們沒有鼓舞任何人 。
because there are leaders and there are those who lead .	因為有領導者和領導人 。
leaders hold a position of power or authority , but those who lead inspire us .	領導者持有權力或權威的位置 , 但領導者鼓舞我們 。
whether they're individuals or organizations , we follow those who lead , not because we have to , but because we want to .	不論是個人或組織 , 我們追隨那些領導的人 , 不是因為我們必須 , 而是我們想要 。
we follow those who lead , not for them , but for ourselves .	我們追隨那些領導的人 , 不是為了他們 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and it's those who start with " why " that have the ability to inspire those around them or find others who inspire them .	那些從 「 為什麼 」 開始的人 , 能鼓舞他們周圍的人 , 或找到啟發他們的人 。
how do you remember where you parked your car ? how do you know if you're moving in the right direction ? neuroscientist neil burgess studies the neural mechanisms that map the space around us , and how they link to memory and imagination .	你如何記得你在哪裡停車 ? 你怎麼知道你是否在正確的方向 ? 神經科學家neilges研究神經機制我們周遭的空間 , 以及它們如何連結記憶和想像力 。
brain , cognitive science , exploration , neuroscience , science	大腦、認知科學、探索、神經科學、科學、科學 。
neil burgess: how your brain tells you where you are	neilburges:你的大腦如何告訴你你身在何處 。
when we park in a big parking lot , how do we remember where we parked our car ?	當我們停在一個大停車場時 , 我們要如何記住車子的位置 ?
here's the problem facing homer .	問題來了荷馬 。
and we're going to try to understand what's happening in his brain .	我們要試著去了解他的大腦發生了什麼事 。
so we'll start with the hippocampus , shown in yellow , which is the organ of memory .	所以 , 我們先從海馬體開始 , 黃色是記憶的器官 。
if you have damage there , like in alzheimer's , you can't remember things including where you parked your car .	如果你有受損 , 例如阿茲海默症 , 你無法記得事物包括你停車位的位置 。
it's named after latin for " seahorse , " which it resembles .	它是以拉丁文為 「 海底 」 命名的 , 它是以 「 呼吸器 」 為名的 。
and like the rest of the brain , it's made of neurons .	和大腦其他部位一樣 , 它是由神經元組成 。
so the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it .	人類的大腦有大約一千億個神經元 。
and the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other .	神經元會互相溝通 , 透過發送小脈衝或發送電脈衝 , 互相傳遞訊息 。
the hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells , which are very densely interconnected .	海馬體形成了兩塊細胞 , 密度很高 。
and scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food .	科學家已經開始了解 , 空間記憶如何在老鼠或老鼠身上記錄在老鼠身上的神經元 , 或探索環境尋找食物 。
so we're going to imagine we're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here .	所以 , 我們要想像我們是從這個老鼠的海馬體中記錄下來的 。
and when it fires a little spike of electricity , there's going to be a red dot and a click .	當它發出一點電力時 , 會有一個紅點和點擊 。
so what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment .	我們看到的是這個神經元每當老鼠進入一個特定的環境中 , 都知道這個神經元在其環境中 。
and it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike .	它會訊號到大腦其他部位 , 通過發送小小的電流 。
so we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal's location .	所以 , 我們可以展現神經元的頻率 , 作為動物的位置 。
and if we record from lots of different neurons , we'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment , like in this square box shown here .	如果我們從許多不同的神經元記錄下來 , 我們將會看到不同的神經元 , 當動物在其環境中的不同部位出現時 , 比如這個正方形的盒子 。
so together they form a map for the rest of the brain , telling the brain continually , " where am i now within my environment ? "	所以 , 他們在一起形成了大腦的地圖 , 不斷地告訴大腦: 「 我現在在我的環境中 ? 」
place cells are also being recorded in humans .	位置細胞也被記錄在人類身上 。
so epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring .	所以 , 癲癇患者有時會需要他們的大腦監控電活動 。
and some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town .	有些病人玩了個電玩遊戲 , 他們在小鎮附近開車 。
and place cells in their hippocampi would fire , become active , start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town .	把細胞放在海馬體中會發射 , 活躍起來 , 每當他們開車穿過某個特定的小鎮時就會發送電脈衝 。
so how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment ?	那麼 , 一個地點細胞如何知道老鼠在其環境中的哪個位置 ?
well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important .	這兩個細胞告訴我們 , 環境的界線特別重要 。
so the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat's in .	所以最上方的那個 , 會發火 , 有點像是在盒子裡的牆壁之間 。
and when you expand the box , the firing location expands .	當你擴大盒子時 , 發出的位置就會擴大 。
the one below likes to fire whenever there's a wall close by to the south .	下面的一面是一面火 , 一面是一面牆接近南方 。
and if you put another wall inside the box , then the cell fires in both place wherever there's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box .	如果你把另一面牆放進盒子裡 , 細胞會在兩面牆上 , 不論在哪裡 , 都會有一面牆到南方的動物在盒子裡探索 。
so this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you extended buildings and so on is particularly important for the hippocampus .	所以 , 這種預測 , 讓你周圍的邊界和方向有限的建築物 , 尤其對海馬體來說是很重要的 。
and indeed , on the inputs to the hippocampus , cells are found which project into the hippocampus , which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it's exploring around .	的確 , 針對海馬體的輸入 , 細胞會在海馬體中找到哪個項目 , 會反應出界限或特定距離的邊緣 , 從老鼠或老鼠四處探索 。
so the cell on the left , you can see , it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east , whether it's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table , which the animals are running around .	左邊的細胞 , 你可以看到 , 每當動物接近一面牆或東邊的邊緣 , 不管是方形盒子的牆或圓形牆 , 或圓形牆 , 或甚至是桌子的邊緣 , 動物在周圍跑 。
and the cell on the right there fires whenever there's a boundary to the south , whether it's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart .	右邊的細胞每當南邊有一個界線 , 不管是桌子的邊緣 , 或是牆壁 , 甚至是兩張桌子之間的鴻溝 。
so that's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it's exploring around .	所以這就是我們認為 , 位置細胞決定了動物周圍的位置 。
we can also test where we think objects are , like this goal flag , in simple environments or indeed , where your car would be .	我們也能測試我們認為物品的位置 , 例如這個目標旗 , 在簡單的環境中 , 或確實 , 你的車會在哪裡 。
so we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember .	所以我們可以讓人們去探索一個環境 , 看看他們必須記得的位置 。
and then , if we put them back in the environment , generally they're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was .	然後 , 如果我們把它們放回環境中 , 一般來說 , 它們很擅長把標記放在他們認為旗幟或車子的位置 。
but on some trials , we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell .	但在某些試驗中 , 我們可以改變環境的形狀和大小 , 例如我們和地點細胞一樣 。
in that case , we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment .	在那個案例中 , 我們可以看到他們認為旗幟的位置是如何改變你如何改變環境的形狀和大小 。
and what you see , for example , if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment , and then if you ask people where it was , but you've made the environment bigger , where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out .	舉例來說 , 如果國旗在一個小方形的環境中 , 交叉的位置 , 然後如果你問人們在哪裡 , 但你讓環境變大 , 他們認為旗子的位置與位置接接觸的位置相同 。
it's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location , and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern .	就好像你記住旗幟的位置 , 藉由儲存你位置的所有位置細胞的模式 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 這樣你就可以最好符合你位置細胞的目前模式 , 來儲存這個位置的模式 。
that guides you back to the location that you want to remember .	那會引導你回到你想記住的地點 。
but we also know where we are through movement .	但是我們也知道我們在移動的位置 。
so if we take some outbound path perhaps we park and we wander off we know because our own movements , which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back .	所以如果我們把一些外界的路徑 , 也許我們會停下來 , 我們就會知道 , 因為我們自己的運動 , 我們可以把這條路結合起來 , 大約是朝向的方向 。
and place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell .	位置細胞也會從一個叫做網格細胞的細胞中取得這種通路 。
now grid cells are found , again , on the inputs to the hippocampus , and they're a bit like place cells .	網格細胞又被發現 , 輸入到海馬體 , 它們有點像位置細胞 。
but now as the rat explores around , each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid .	但當老鼠在周圍探索時 , 每個細胞都在一系列不同的位置上發射出來 , 在一個奇妙的三角形網格中 。
and if you record from several grid cells shown here in different colors each one has a gridlike firing pattern across the environment , and each cell's gridlike firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells .	如果你從數個格子細胞記錄下來 , 每種顏色都不同 , 都有類似網格的連結模式 , 每個細胞的網格都在轉變 , 轉變為其他細胞 。
so the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one .	這條紅色的線條上有綠色的線條 , 上面有藍色的線條 。
so together , it's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you'd find on a map , but using triangles .	所以 , 一起來 , 老鼠可以把虛擬的地點放到不同的環境中 , 有點像你在地圖上看到的緯度和長度線 , 但用三角形 。
and as it moves around , the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is , so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment .	隨著它四處移動 , 電子活動可以通過其中一個細胞傳到下一個細胞 , 來追蹤它的所在位置 , 讓它可以利用它自己的動作 , 來知道它在其環境中的位置 。
do people have grid cells ?	人們有網格細胞嗎 ?
well because all of the gridlike firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry , the same orientations of grid , shown in orange here , it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between .	因為所有像電網一樣的電線圖案有相同的對稱軸線 , 相同的電線 , 在這裡是橘色的 , 也就是說 , 大腦中所有電網的神經活動應該要根據我們在六個方向上跑 , 或在兩者之間跑六個方向 。
so we can put people in an mri scanner and have them do a little video game like the one i showed you and look for this signal .	我們可以把人放進磁共振掃描儀裡 , 讓他們做一個小小的電玩遊戲 , 像我剛剛給你們看的一樣 , 尋找這個信號 。
and indeed , you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex , which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats .	的確 , 你的確在人類的腦皮質中看到它 , 和你在老鼠身上看到的一樣 。
so back to homer .	回到家鄉 。
he's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked .	他可能還記得他的車位在距離和方向的位置 , 來延伸建築物和界線 , 在他停車的地方 。
and that would be represented by the firing of boundarydetecting cells .	那會是用限制偵測細胞的激發來呈現的 。
he's also remembering the path he took out of the car park , which would be represented in the firing of grid cells .	他還記得他從汽車公園走出來的路徑 , 代表著網格細胞 。
now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire .	兩種細胞都可以讓位置細胞發火 。
and he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car .	他可以回到他所在的位置 , 藉由移動的位置 , 找到最好符合他大腦中位置細胞的發揮模式 , 讓他停車位 。
and that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car's actually there .	這引導他回到那個位置的虛擬暗示 , 像是他的車是否真的存在 。
maybe it's been towed .	或許它被壓倒了 。
but he knows where it was , so he knows to go and get it .	但他知道它在哪裡 , 所以他知道要去拿它 。
so beyond spatial memory , if we look for this gridlike firing pattern throughout the whole brain , we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks , like remembering the last time you went to a wedding , for example .	所以 , 除了空間記憶之外 , 如果我們在整個大腦中尋找像電網一樣的電線圖案 , 我們在一系列的位置中看到它總是活躍 , 當我們做各種自傳記憶任務時 , 比如記住你上次去婚禮 , 舉例來說 。
so it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene , at least , of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them .	所以 , 或許神經機制代表我們周遭的空間 , 也被用來產生視覺影像 , 這樣我們才能重建空間的場景 , 至少 , 當我們想要想像它們時 , 那些事件發生在我們身上 。
so if this was happening , your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint .	所以如果這發生了 , 你的記憶可以從細胞開始 , 以這些密度相互作用的密度來啟動彼此 , 然後重新啟動邊界細胞 , 來創造你觀點周圍的空間結構 。
and grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space .	網格細胞可以透過這個空間移動這個視角 。
another kind of cell , head direction cells , which i didn't mention yet , they fire like a compass according to which way you're facing .	另一種細胞 , 頭部導向細胞 , 我還沒提到 , 它們就像你面臨哪種面臨的方式一樣 。
they could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery , so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding , for example .	他們可以定義你想要為你的視覺影像產生影像 , 所以你可以想像當你在這個婚禮上發生了什麼事 。
so this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains .	這只是一個新時代在認知神經科學中的一個例子 , 我們開始了解心理的過程 , 比如你如何記住或想像 , 甚至在數十億個神經元的行動中 , 產生我們的大腦 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝 。
imagine a global security driven by collaboration among agencies , government , the private sector and the public . that's not just the distant hope of opensource fans , it's the vision of james stavridis , the supreme commander of nato , who shares vivid moments from recent military history to explain why security of the future should be built with bridges rather than walls .	想像一下 , 一個全球安全的驅動力 , 政府 , 私部門和公眾 。 這不僅僅是開放原始碼的期望 , 詹姆士斯•斯特里迪斯的最高謀殺手 , 來自最近的軍事歷史中 , 他分享了一些充滿活力的時刻 , 來解釋未來的安全性 , 而不是牆壁 。
collaboration , global issues , opensource , peace , politics , social media , violence , war	合作、全球議題、開放資源、和平、政治、社交媒體、暴力、戰爭、戰爭、戰爭 。
james stavridis: how nato's supreme commander thinks about global security	詹姆士斯•斯特里迪斯:南托的最高謀殺手如何看待全球安全 。
i'm gonna talk a little bit about opensource security , because we've got to get better at security in this 21st century .	我今天要談的是開放資源安全性 , 因為我們必須在21世紀得到更好的安全性 。
let me start by saying , let's look back to the 20th century , and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us .	首先 , 讓我們回顧20世紀 , 來了解一下安全的風格如何為我們帶來的影響 。
this is verdun , a battlefield in france just north of the nato headquarters in belgium .	這位是verdun , 法國的一個戰場 , 位於北部的北部 , 位於比利時的北部 。
at verdun , in 1916 , over a 300day period , 700 , 000 people were killed , so about 2 , 000 a day .	1916年 , 在verdun , 超過300天 , 70萬人被殺 , 所以每天大約有2000人 。
if you roll it forward 20thcentury security into the second world war , you see the battle of stalingrad , 300 days , 2 million people killed .	如果你把它推向第二次世界大戰 , 你會看到史達林畢業的戰爭 , 三百天 , 有兩百萬人被殺 。
we go into the cold war , and we continue to try and build walls .	我們進入冷戰 , 繼續嘗試建造牆壁 。
we go from the trench warfare of the first world war to the maginot line of the second world war , and then we go into the cold war , the iron curtain , the berlin wall .	我們從第一次世界大戰的熱帶戰爭 , 到第二次世界大戰 , 然後我們進入冷戰、鐵幕、柏林牆 。
my thesis for us today is , instead of building walls to create security , we need to build bridges .	我的今天論點是 , 與其建立一個安全的牆壁 , 我們需要建造橋樑 。
this is a famous bridge in europe .	這是歐洲有名的橋樑 。
it's the bridge over the drina river , the subject of a novel by ivo andrić , and it talks about how , in that very troubled part of europe and the balkans , over time there's been enormous building of walls .	它是德文河的橋樑 , 一個小說的主題 , 內容是關於在歐洲和巴爾幹半島的地區 , 經過一段時間 , 充滿了巨大的牆壁 。
more recently , in the last decade , we begin to see these communities start , hesitatingly , to come together .	最近 , 在過去的十年 , 我們開始看到這些社區開始 , 猶豫地 , 團結在一起 。
i would argue , again , opensource security is about connecting the international , the interagency , the privatepublic , and lashing it together with strategic communication , largely in social networks .	我再次主張 , 開放資源安全是要聯繫國際、國際關係、私人共和國 , 並將它與策略溝通 , 大部份是社交網路 。
so let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that , because our global commons is under attack in a variety of ways , and none of the sources of threat to the global commons will be solved by building walls .	所以 , 讓我來談談為什麼我們需要這麼做 , 因為我們的全球公有物以各種方式攻擊 , 和全球公有物的來源都不會被建造牆所解決 。
now , i'm a sailor , obviously .	很顯然 , 我是個水手 。
this is a ship , a liner , clipping through the indian ocean .	這是一條船 , 一條線 , 穿過印度洋 。
what's wrong with this picture ?	這張照片有什麼問題 ?
it's got concertina wire along the sides of it .	它的側邊有音樂廳的電線 。
that's to prevent pirates from attacking it .	那就是防止海盜攻擊它 。
piracy is a very active threat today around the world . this is in the indian ocean .	陰謀是現今世界各地非常活躍的威脅 。 這是在印度洋 。
piracy is also very active in the strait of malacca .	盜版也非常活躍 。
it's active in the gulf of guinea .	它活躍於幾內亞灣 。
we see it in the caribbean .	我們在加勒比海看到它 。
it's a $10billionayear discontinuity in the global transport system .	在全球運輸系統中 , 它是10億美元的不穩定性 。
last year , at this time , there were 20 vessels , 500 mariners held hostage .	去年 , 當時有20艘船 , 500名遊客 , 住宿 。
this is an attack on the global commons .	這是全球公有物的攻擊 。
we need to think about how to address it .	我們需要思考如何處理它 。
let's shift to a different kind of sea , the cyber sea .	讓我們轉換到不同的海洋 , 網路海 。
here are photographs of two young men .	這是兩位年輕男子的照片 。
at the moment , they're incarcerated .	當時 , 他們被監禁了 。
they conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars .	他們做了一個信用卡詐欺 , 把他們網上超過一百億美金 。
this is part of cybercrime which is a $2trillionayear discontinuity in the global economy .	這是網路犯罪的一部分 , 是全球經濟的二百萬美元不穩定性 。
two trillion a year .	一年有兩兆人 。
that's just under the gdp of great britain .	這只是英國的gdp之下 。
so this cyber sea , which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness , is very much under threat as well .	這種網路海洋 , 我們無止盡地知道 , 這種極端的開放 , 也是受到威脅的基礎 。
another thing i worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking , by the movement of narcotics , opium , here coming out of afghanistan through europe over to the united states .	我擔心全球公有物的另一件事 , 是被販賣的威脅 , 透過毒品、鴉片 , 來自阿富汗 , 歐洲到美國 。
we worry about cocaine coming from the andean ridge north .	我們擔心古柯鹼來自安地亞里奇北部 。
we worry about the movement of illegal weapons and trafficking . above all , perhaps , we worry about human trafficking , and the awful cost of it .	我們擔心非法武器和人口販運的運動 , 最重要的是 , 我們擔心人口販賣 , 以及它的成本 。
trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons .	人口販運大致上在海上移動 , 但在全球公有物的其他地方 。
this is a photograph , and i wish i could tell you that this is a very hightech piece of us navy gear that we're using to stop the trafficking .	這是一張照片 , 我希望我能告訴你們 , 這是一張非常高科技的美國海軍怪胎 , 用來阻止交通堵塞 。
the bad news is , this is a semisubmersible run by drug cartels .	壞消息是 , 這是個半數的毒品販經營 。
it was built in the jungles of south america .	它是在南美叢林裡建造出來的 。
we caught it with that lowtech raft — — and it was carrying six tons of cocaine .	我們用低科技的速率抓住它 , 它帶著六噸的可卡因 。
crew of four . sophisticated communications sweep .	四個 , 複雜的溝通方式 。
this kind of trafficking , in narcotics , in humans , in weapons , god forbid , in weapons of mass destruction , is part of the threat to the global commons .	這種販賣方式 , 不論是對人類、武器、上帝禁止大規模毀滅的武器 , 是對全球公有物的威脅 。
and let's pull it together in afghanistan today .	讓我們一起在阿富汗 。
this is a field of poppies in afghanistan .	這是阿富汗的貧窮場所 。
eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppy , opium and heroin , comes out of afghanistan .	世界上百分之八十到九十的貧窮、鴉片和海洛因 , 來自阿富汗 。
we also see there , of course , terrorism .	當然 , 我們也看到了恐怖主義 。
this is where al qaeda is staged from .	這是蓋達組織的所在地 ,
we also see a very strong insurgency embedded there .	我們也看到一個非常強大的衝動 , 嵌入在那裡 。
so this terrorism concern is also part of the global commons , and what we must address .	所以這場恐怖主義也是全球公有物的一部分 , 而我們必須解決的 。
so here we are , 21st century .	這裡是21世紀 。
we know our 20thcentury tools are not going to work .	我們知道我們的20世紀工具不會成功 。
what should we do ?	我們該怎麼做 ?
i would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我敢說 , 我們不會只靠槍枝的桶子來提供安全 。
we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我們不會只靠槍枝的桶子來提供安全 。
we will need the application of military force .	我們需要軍事力量的應用 。
when we do it , we must do it well , and competently .	當我們這麼做時 , 我們必須要做得很好 , 且要有競爭力 。
but my thesis is , opensource security is about international , interagency , privatepublic connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the internet .	但我的論點是 , 開源安全是國際、國際間、私人的聯結 , 由於網路上有策略性的溝通 。
let me give you a couple of examples of how this works in a positive way .	讓我舉幾個例子說明這如何以正面的方式進行 。
this is afghanistan . these are afghan soldiers .	這是阿富汗 , 這是阿富汗的士兵 。
they are all holding books .	他們都拿著書 。
you should say , " that's odd . i thought i read that this demographic , young men and women in their 20s and 30s , is largely illiterate in afghanistan . "	你應該說: 「 這很奇怪 。 我覺得我讀到這個人口統計 , 年輕男女 , 二十到三十歲 , 大部分是阿富汗的象徵 。 」
you would be correct .	你是正確的 。
eightyfive percent cannot read when they enter the security forces of afghanistan .	當他們進入阿富汗的安全部隊時 , 百分之八十五無法閱讀八十五 。
why ? because the taliban withheld education during the period of time in which these men and women would have learned to read .	為什麼 ? 因為塔利班在時間的期間 , 這些男人和女人會學會閱讀 。
so the question is , so , why are they all standing there holding books ?	所以 , 問題是 , 為什麼他們都站在那裡拿著書 ?
the answer is , we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by nato in partnership with private sector entities , in partnership with development agencies .	答案是 , 我們在教導他們閱讀文學課程 , 由南托和私營機構合作 , 與發展機構合作 。
we've taught well over 200 , 000 afghan security forces to read and write at a basic level .	我們已經教導了超過二十萬個阿富汗安全部隊來閱讀和寫作基本的層面 。
when you can read and write in afghanistan , you will typically put a pen in your pocket .	當你閱讀和寫在阿富汗 , 你通常會把一支筆放在你的口袋裡 。
at the ceremonies , when these young men and women graduate , they take that pen with great pride , and put it in their pocket .	在這些年輕男性和女性畢業時 , 她們帶著那筆很驕傲 , 把它放在口袋裡 。
this is bringing together international — there are 50 nations involved in this mission — interagency — these development agencies — and privatepublic , to take on this kind of security .	這帶出國際公共事業有五十個國家參與這個使命-國際關係這些發展部門和私人的公共事務 , 來承擔這種安全 。
now , we are also teaching them combat skills , of course , but i would argue , opensource security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect .	當然 , 我們也在教導他們戰鬥技巧 , 但我認為 , 開放資源安全意味著連結更長久的安全效應 。
this is a us navy warship .	這是美國海軍戰艦 。
it's called the comfort .	它叫做舒適 。
there's a sister ship called the mercy .	有一個姐妹船叫做 「 慈悲 」 。
they are hospital ships .	他們是醫院船隻 。
this one , the comfort , operates throughout the caribbean and the coast of south america conducting patient treatments .	這張 , 舒適 , 在加勒比海和南美海岸進行病人治療 。
on a typical cruise , they'll do 400 , 000 patient treatments .	在典型的危機上 , 他們會做四十萬個病人的治療 。
it is crewed not strictly by military but by a combination of humanitarian organizations: operation hope , project smile .	它並非由軍隊來統治 , 而是人道組織的組合:營運希望、計畫微笑 。
other organizations send volunteers .	其他組織發送志工 。
interagency physicians come out .	實習醫生出來了 。
they're all part of this .	這些都是其中的一部分 。
to give you one example of the impact this can have , this little boy , eight years old , walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the comfort .	給你一個例子 , 這個小男孩 , 8歲 , 和他的母親兩天走上眼科診所 , 讓他們感到舒適 。
when he was fitted , over his extremely myopic eyes , he suddenly looked up and said , " mama , veo el mundo . "	當他準備好時 , 在他極度的肉眼中 , 他突然抬頭說: 「 媽媽 , veoelmundo 。 」
" mom , i see the world . "	「 媽 , 我看到世界 。 」
multiply this by 400 , 000 patient treatments , this privatepublic collaboration with security forces , and you begin to see the power of creating security in a very different way .	把這個數目乘以四十萬個病人的治療 , 這種私人的公眾合作 , 以安全力量 , 你開始看到創造安全的力量 , 以非常不同的方式來創造安全 。
here you see baseball players .	這裡你可以看到棒球選手 。
can you pick out the two us army soldiers in this photograph ?	你能在這張照片中拿出兩位美國軍隊的士兵嗎 ?
they are the two young men on either side of these young boys . this is part of a series of baseball clinics , where we have explored collaboration between major league baseball , the department of state , who sets up the diplomatic piece of this , military baseball players , who are real soldiers with real skills but participate in this mission , and they put on clinics throughout latin america and the caribbean , in honduras , in nicaragua , in all of the central american and caribbean nations where baseball is so popular , and it creates security .	他們是這些年輕男孩的兩位年輕男生 。 這是一系列的棒球診所 , 在那裡 , 我們探討了大聯盟棒球 , 國家的部門 , 他們設立了外交棒球選手 , 他們是真正的軍事棒球選手 , 但參與了這個使命 , 他們在拉丁美洲和加勒比海和加勒比海 , 他們在南美洲和加勒比海 , 在那裡 , 在南北美和南加勒比海 , 創造了美國的熱帶 。
it shows role models to young men and women about fitness and about life that i would argue help create security for us .	它展現了年輕男人和女人的榜樣 , 關於健身和生活 , 我會爭論 , 幫助我們創造安全 。
another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief .	這種合作關係的另一面是災難性的救濟 。
this is a us air force helicopter participating after the tsunami in 2004 which killed 250 , 000 people .	這是美國空軍直升機在2004年在海嘯後參加 , 殺害了25萬人 。
in each of these major disasters — the tsunami in 2004 , 250 , 000 dead , the kashmiri earthquake in pakistan , 2005 , 85 , 000 dead , the haitian earthquake , about 300 , 000 dead , more recently the awful earthquaketsunami combination which struck japan and its nuclear industry — in all of these instances , we see partnerships between international actors , interagency , privatepublic working with security forces to respond to this kind of natural disaster .	在這兩大災難中 , 2004年 , 25萬人死亡 , 2005年 , 巴基斯坦的卡米里地震 , 八萬五千人死於海地地地地震 , 大約有三十萬人死亡 , 最近發生了一場很糟的地震混合 , 發生了日本和核融合 , 在所有這些事件中 , 我們看到了國際演員、國際演員、私人協會之間的合作關係 , 和這種天然災害 。
so these are examples of this idea of opensource security .	所以 , 這些是關於開放資源安全的例子 。
we tie it together , increasingly , by doing things like this .	透過這樣的做法 , 我們將它結合在一起 , 越來越多 。
now , you're looking at this thinking , " ah , admiral , these must be sea lanes of communication , or these might be fiber optic cables . "	現在 , 你看到這個想法: 「 啊 , 道德 , 這些一定是溝通的海道 , 或這些可能是光纖電纜 。 」
no . this is a graphic of the world according to twitter .	不 , 這是世界的圖表 , 根據推特 。
purple are tweets . green are geolocation .	紫色是推特 , 綠色是地理分配 。
white is the synthesis .	白色是合成 。
it's a perfect evocation of that great population survey , the six largest nations in the world in descending order: china , india , facebook , the united states , twitter and indonesia .	對於人口調查的完美演化 , 世界上六大國家的下定律:中國、印度、facebook、美國、推特和印尼 。
why do we want to get in these nets ?	為什麼我們要進到這些蚊帳呢 ?
why do we want to be involved ?	為什麼我們要參與 ?
we talked earlier about the arab spring , and the power of all this .	我們先前談到阿拉伯之春 , 以及這一切的力量 。
i'll give you another example , and it's how you move this message .	我再舉一個例子 , 就是你如何移動這個訊息 。
i gave a talk like this in london a while back about this point . i said , as i say to all of you , i'm on facebook . friend me .	我在倫敦演講了一陣子 , 談到這一點 。 我跟你們說 , 我在臉書上 。 朋友 。
got a little laugh from the audience .	聽眾笑了 。
there was an article which was run by ap , on the wire .	有篇文章是由ap所經營的 , 在電線上 。
got picked up in two places in the world: finland and indonesia .	世界上有兩個地方 , 芬蘭和印尼 。
the headline was: nato admiral needs friends .	標題是:南圖阿密德需要朋友 。
and the story was a catalyst , and the next morning i had hundreds of facebook friend requests from indonesians and finns , mostly saying , " admiral , we heard you need a friend , and oh , by the way , what is nato ? "	這個故事是催化劑 , 隔天早上 , 我有數百個facebook朋友 , 來自印尼人和芬人 , 大部分都說: 「 安德森 , 我們聽說你需要一個朋友 , 喔 , 順便說一下 , 娜托是什麼 ? 」
yeah , we laugh , but this is how we move the message , and moving that message is how we connect international , interagency , privatepublic , and these social nets to help create security .	沒錯 , 我們笑了 , 但這就是我們如何移動這個訊息 , 讓這個訊息傳遞出去 , 就是我們如何連結國際、國際間、私人和這些社交網絡 , 來協助創造安全 。
now , let me hit a somber note .	現在 , 讓我按下一個音符 。
this is a photograph of a brave british soldier .	這是一張勇敢的英國士兵的照片 。
he's in the scots guards .	他在蘇格蘭警衛 。
he's standing the watch in helmand , in southern afghanistan .	他站在阿富汗南方阿富汗的手錶 。
i put him here to remind us , i would not want anyone to leave the room thinking that we do not need capable , competent militaries who can create real military effect .	我把他放在這裡提醒我們 , 我不希望任何人離開房間 , 認為我們不需要有能力、競爭的軍隊 , 能創造出真正的軍事效應 。
that is the core of who we are and what we do , and we do it to protect freedom , freedom of speech , all the things we treasure in our societies .	是我們的核心和我們所做的 , 我們要保護自由、言論自由 , 所有我們在社會中珍藏的事物 。
but , you know , life is not an onandoff switch .	但你知道 , 生命不是一個即興的開關 。
you don't have to have a military that is either in hard combat or is in the barracks .	你不需要有軍隊 , 不論是在艱難的戰鬥 , 或是在巴拉克斯 。
i would argue life is a rheostat .	我會主張人生是 「 戒律 」 。
you have to dial it in , and as i think about how we create security in this 21st century , there will be times when we will apply hard power in true war and crisis , but there will be many instances , as we've talked about today , where our militaries can be part of creating 21stcentury security , international , interagency , privatepublic , connected with competent communication .	你得把它放進去 , 如我所想的 , 我們在21世紀創造安全 , 未來有時候我們會用真正的戰爭和危機來解決困難的力量 , 但在今天 , 我們的軍隊可以創造出21世紀的安全、國際的、國際的、國際的、國際間的、私人的、私人的、私人的溝通 。
i would close by saying that we heard earlier today about wikipedia . i use wikipedia all the time to look up facts , and as all of you appreciate , wikipedia is not created by 12 brilliant people locked in a room writing articles .	最後 , 我會說 , 我們今天早期聽到維基百科 。 我常使用維基百科 , 來查看事實 , 你們都欣賞維基 , 維基百科並不是十二個聰明的人在房間寫文章 。
wikipedia , every day , is tens of thousands of people inputting information , and every day millions of people withdrawing that information .	維基百科 , 每天都有成千上萬的人輸入資訊 , 每一天 , 數百萬人將這些資訊拆解 。
it's a perfect image for the fundamental point that no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	這是個完美的圖像 , 沒有人跟我們一起思考一樣聰明 。
no one person , no one alliance , no one nation , no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	沒有一個人 , 沒有盟友 , 沒有一個國家 , 我們沒有一個人像我們所有人一樣聰明 。
the vision statement of wikipedia is very simple: a world in which every human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge .	維基百科的遠景很簡單:一個人類能自由地分享的世界 , 在所有知識的總和中 。
my thesis for you is that by combining international , interagency , privatepublic , strategic communication , together , in this 21st century , we can create the sum of all security .	我的論點是 , 透過結合國際、介入、私人共通、策略溝通 , 在二十一世紀 , 我們就能創造出所有安全的總和 。
thank you very much . thank you . thank you .	非常謝謝各位 。 謝謝 。
