BLEU = 22.98 56.1/30.7/17.5/10.5 (BP = 0.969 ratio = 0.970 hyp_len = 107929 ref_len = 111282)
when you say she's a programmer , she did do some , but the real thing is to have said the future is going to be much , much more than this .	當你說她是程式設計師時 , 她會做一些事 , 但真正的目的是要說未來會遠遠超過這個 。
now , a hundred years later , this guy comes along , alan turing , and in 1936 , and invents the computer all over again .	一百年後 , 這個傢伙出現了 , 艾倫•圖靈 , 1936年 , 再次發明了電腦 。
now , of course , babbage's machine was entirely mechanical .	當然 , 巴貝奇的機器完全機械化 。
turing's machine was entirely theoretical .	土耳其的機器完全是理論的 。
both of these guys were coming from a mathematical perspective , but turing told us something very important .	兩位都來自數學的觀點 , 但圖靈告訴我們很重要的東西 。
he laid down the mathematical foundations for computer science , and said , " it doesn't matter how you make a computer . "	他為電腦科學奠定了數學基礎 , 說: 「 不論你如何製作電腦 , 都不重要 。 」
it doesn't matter if your computer's mechanical , like babbage's was , or electronic , like computers are today , or perhaps in the future , cells , or , again , mechanical again , once we get into nanotechnology .	不管是電腦的機械裝置 , 像是babbage , 或電子裝置 , 像是現今的電腦 , 或是未來的細胞 , 或者 , 細胞 , 或者 , 再一次 , 一旦我們進入奈米科技 。
we could go back to babbage's machine and just make it tiny . all those things are computers .	我們可以回到babbage的機器 , 讓它變得很小 , 所有的東西都是電腦 。
there is in a sense a computing essence .	有一種計算的本質 。
this is called the church–turing thesis .	這就是所謂的教會論文 。
and so suddenly , you get this link where you say this thing babbage had built really was a computer .	所以 , 突然間 , 你看到了這個連結 , 你說這個巴貝奇建造出來的東西 , 其實是一台電腦 。
in fact , it was capable of doing everything we do today with computers , only really slowly .	事實上 , 它能夠做到我們今天用電腦做的每一件事 , 只有很慢 。
to give you an idea of how slowly , it had about 1k of memory .	給你一個概念 , 它有大約1k的記憶 。
it used punch cards , which were being fed in , and it ran about 10 , 000 times slower the first zx81 .	它用打孔卡 , 被餵食 , 它跑的速度大約是第一zx81的一萬倍 。
it did have a ram pack .	它的確有一包 。
you could add on a lot of extra memory if you wanted to .	如果你想要的話 , 你可以加上額外的記憶 。
so , where does that bring us today ?	所以 , 今天這會帶給我們什麼 ?
so there are plans .	所以有計畫 。
over in swindon , the science museum archives , there are hundreds of plans and thousands of pages of notes written by charles babbage about this analytical engine .	在瑞士 , 科學博物館檔案 , 有數百個計劃和數以千計的筆記 , 由查爾斯•巴貝奇所寫 , 關於這個分析引擎 。
one of those is a set of plans that we call plan 28 , and that is also the name of a charity that i started with doron swade , who was the curator of computing at the science museum , and also the person who drove the project to build a difference engine , and our plan is to build it .	其中一個是我們稱之為28計劃的一組計劃 , 這也是我從doronswaade開始的名字 , 他是科學博物館裡的計算計劃的策展人 , 也是推動這個計劃來建造一個不同的引擎的人 , 我們的計劃就是建造它 。
here in south kensington , we will build the analytical engine .	在南肯辛頓這裡 , 我們會建造分析引擎 。
the project has a number of parts to it .	這個專案計畫有許多部分 。
one was the scanning of babbage's archive .	第一是巴貝奇的檔案掃描 。
that's been done . the second is now the study of all of those plans to determine what to build .	這已經完成了 。 第二個是研究這些計畫的目的 , 來決定要建造什麼 。
the third part is a computer simulation of that machine , and the last part is to physically build it at the science museum .	第三部分是模擬這台機器的電腦模擬 , 最後一部分是將它在科學博物館裡建造 。
when it's built , you'll finally be able to understand how a computer works , because rather than having a tiny chip in front of you , you've got to look at this humongous thing and say , " ah , i see the memory operating , i see the cpu operating , i hear it operating . i probably smell it operating . "	當它被建造出來時 , 你終於能夠了解電腦如何運作 , 因為與其在你面前有一小塊晶片 , 你必須看出這個龐大的東西 , 然後說: 「 啊 , 我看到記憶運作 , 我看到cpu在運作 , 我聽見它運作 。 我可能聞到它 。 」
but in between that we're going to do a simulation .	但在這之間 , 我們要做一個模擬 。
babbage himself wrote , he said , as soon as the analytical engine exists , it will surely guide the future course of science .	巴貝奇自己寫信 , 他說 , 只要分析引擎就存在 , 它一定會引導未來的科學課程 。
of course , he never built it , because he was always fiddling with new plans , but when it did get built , of course , in the 1940s , everything changed .	當然 , 他從來沒有打造過它 , 因為他一直在打造新計畫 , 但在1940年代 , 一切都變了 。
now , i'll just give you a little taste of what it looks like in motion with a video which shows just one part of the cpu mechanism working .	現在 , 我會給你們一些味道 , 關於它在動作上看起來的樣子 , 影片上顯示了cpu的運作的一部分 。
so this is just three sets of cogs , and it's going to add . this is the adding mechanism in action , so you imagine this gigantic machine .	這僅僅是三組的認知 , 它會增加 。 這是加入的機制 , 所以你想像一下這個巨大的機器 。
so , give me five years .	所以 , 給我五年 。
before the 2030s happen , we'll have it .	在2030年代發生之前 , 我們就有了 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝各位 。
in this imagefilled talk , yann arthusbertrand displays his three most recent projects on humanity and our habitat stunning aerial photographs in his series " the earth from above , " personal interviews from around the globe featured in his web project " 6 billion others , " and his soontobereleased movie , " home , " which documents human impact on the environment through breathtaking video .	在這個影像填寫的演說中 , 雅恩•亞斯伯特展現了他三個最近的專案 , 關於人類和我們的棲息地 , 在他的系列中 , 《天空攝影》中 , 《天空攝影》 , 來自世界各地的個人訪問 , 他的網頁寫到 「 六十億人 」 , 他的電影 , 「 家 」 , 透過呼吸影片 , 來記錄人類對環境的影響 。
art , climate change , environment , film , future , humanity , media , photography	藝術、氣候變遷、環境、電影、未來、人性、媒體、攝影 。
yann arthusbertrand captures fragile earth in wideangle	雅恩•阿姆斯堡捕捉到廣泛角落的脆弱地球 , 在廣泛角度上捕捉了地球 。
i have a big impact on the planet to travel here by plane .	我對地球有很大的影響 , 可以透過飛機來到這裡 。
i emitted , in the atmosphere , nine tons of co2 ; that is the weight of two elephants .	我在大氣中排放出九噸的二氧化碳 , 那是兩隻大象的重量 。
i came here to speak about ecology , and i emitted as much co2 as a frenchman in one year .	我來這裡談談生態學 , 一年內我將二氧化碳排放為法國人 。
so what do i have to do ?	所以 , 我該怎麼做 ?
i have to kill a frenchman when i come back at home ?	當我回家時 , 我得要殺掉法國人嗎 ?
i have to do my carbon offset in another way , like i do every time .	我必須以另一種方式抵抗碳 , 就像我每次都要做 。
in fact my work is to show our impact on our planet .	事實上 , 我的作品是要展現我們對地球的影響 。
i'm going to show you some examples of the last pictures i've done in the last year .	我要給你們看一些例子 , 說明我去年拍攝的最後一張照片 。
alberta sand oil , a lot of pollution .	亞伯塔沙油 , 很多污染 。
you know the problem ; we don't want to believe what we know .	你知道問題 , 我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
in alberta people work nonstop , 24 hours by seven to extract as much oil as they can .	在亞伯達人的工作中 , 有24小時 , 七個小時的時間來抽取石油 。
we know about the end of oil .	我們知道石油的末端 。
oil sand is not a longterm solution .	石油沙不是長期的解決方案 。
but we use three times more oil than we find every year .	但我們用的石油比每年多三倍 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
coral reef in new caledonia .	新加利亞的珊瑚礁 。
100 percent of the coral may be wiped out before 2050 because of global warming .	百分之百的珊瑚可能因為全球暖化而消滅 。
and you know how coral are very sensitive to temperature , and are very important for the biodiversity of the sea .	你知道珊瑚對溫度非常敏感 , 對海洋生物多樣性非常重要 。
north pole . i've done this picture last summer .	北極 , 去年夏天我拍了這張照片 。
it was impossible to do this picture 15 years ago .	15年前拍攝這張照片是不可能的
now there is a new way open between atlantic and pacific .	大西洋和太平洋之間有一種新的開放方式 。
the thickness of the arctic decreased more than 40 percent since 1960 .	北極的厚度從1960年開始減少了超過40% 。
there is a new face of kilimanjaro without ice .	kilijaro沒有冰 , 出現了新的面孔 。
it lost 80 percent of its ice .	它損失了80%的冰 。
according to scientists , in 100 years all the mountain glacier will be gone .	根據科學家的說法 , 在100年內 , 所有的山冰會消失 。
glaciers are very important for the life on earth .	冰河對地球生命很重要 。
like al gore told you , two billion people live on the water from the glacier of himalaya .	就像高爾說過的 , 二十億人住在喜馬拉雅冰河的水上 。
return of fish men .	回到魚販 。
one fifth of human kind depend on fish to live .	人類有五分之一依賴魚類生存 。
today now 70 percent of the fish stock are overexploited .	現今 , 70%的魚類存量過度開發 。
according to fao , if we don't change our system of fishing the main sea resources will be gone in 2050 .	根據fao的說法 , 如果我們不改變我們的捕魚系統 , 2050年的主要海洋資源會消失 。
we don't want to believe what we know .	我們不想相信我們所知道的 。
the beautiful picture , by [unclear] in africa .	美麗的照片是非洲的 。
one human of six have not enough to eat in the world .	六個人中就有一個人沒有足夠的食物可以在世界上吃 。
one billion people have not enough to eat .	十億人沒有足夠的食物可吃 。
in africa , corn is one of the main foods in many places .	在非洲 , 玉米是許多地方的主要食物之一 。
here in america , 90 percent of the corn cultivated is used to feed animals or to do oil .	在美國 , 90%的玉米耕種被用來餵養動物或做油 。
palm tree plantation in borneo .	在婆羅的棕櫚樹種植園 。
every year we lose 50 thousand square miles in deforestation .	每年我們損失了五萬平方英哩的森林砍伐 。
refugee camp in darfur .	達佛的難民營 。
today we have 20 million refugees in the world .	現今 , 世界上有兩千萬難民 。
according to the u . n . , we speak about 250 million refugees in 2050 .	根據聯合國 , 我們在2050年談了2億5千萬難民 。
i always show my pictures in the street .	我總是在街上展示我的照片 。
we have done already 100 exhibitions in the cities .	我們已經在城市裡做了一百個展覽 。
but how to understand the world without the voice of people ?	但若沒有人的聲音 , 要如何了解這個世界 ?
landscape was not enough .	景觀不夠 。
it was obvious to me to do another work .	很明顯我要做另一項工作 。
i launched a project named six billion others .	我發起了一個專案計畫 , 名為六十億人 。
i sent around the world six cameramen asking the same question , the same crucial question , about life .	我在世界各地寄了六個相機 , 問同樣的問題 , 同樣的問題 , 同樣重要的問題 , 關於生命 。
we have done five thousand interviews .	我們做了五千次訪談 。
i'm going to show you this .	我要給你們看這個 。
man: the most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life ?	男人:我人生中最美好的事 ?
it's when my dad told me , " here , i give you this girl as your fiance . "	那時 , 我爸爸告訴我: 「 我把這個女孩當作你的纖維 。 」
woman: love ? love is nice if you can have it .	女人:愛 ? 愛是不是你能擁有它 。
second man: romeo and juliet , sassi and panno , dodi and diana , heer and ranjha , this is love ! third man: my greatest fear is . . .	第二個男人:羅密歐和茱麗葉 , 薩西和潘諾 , 杜迪 , 戴安娜 , 海德和蘭哈 , 這是愛 ! 第三個男人:我最大的恐懼......
woman: you're asking me a hard question .	女人:你問我一個難題 。
fourth man: i live happily because what else should i do ?	第四個男人:我過得快樂 , 因為我還該怎麼做 ?
fifth man: the first thing i remember . . .	第五個男人:我記得的第一件事......
fifth man: . . . from my childhood , fifth man: we were having fun , biking .	第五個男人:我童年時 , 第五個男人:我們有好玩的自行車 。
seventh man: we invented stories , we flew around the world , while remaining in our attic .	第七個男人:我們發明故事 , 我們飛遍世界 , 同時還留在我們的政治中 。
eighth man: i had a big laugh today .	第八個男人:今天我大笑 。
ninth man: you see , family is . . . it's awful .	第九個男人:你看 , 家人...這很糟 。
10th man: in the word life , you have the life .	第十個男人:在 「 生命 」 裡 , 你有生命 。
11th man: who am i ? isn't that the biggest question ?	第十一個男人:我是誰 ? 這不是最大的問題嗎 ?
12th man: if i was to go back to iraq and speak to the people , i'd have to bow down and kiss their feet .	第十二個男人:如果我要回到伊拉克 , 和人民說話 , 我就得把他們的腳降低 。
just as that woman tried to kiss my feet when we were taking her sons .	正如那個女人試圖親吻我兒子時的腳 。
and i feel humbled by their strength .	他們的力量讓我感到謙卑 。
and i will forever feel a need to make reparations to iraq .	我永遠覺得需要對伊拉克作出聲明 。
second woman: dad , mom , i grew up .	第二個女人:爸爸 , 我長大了 。
you shouldn't worry about me . dad doesn't need to go to work .	你不該擔心我 , 爸爸不用去工作 。
my family . . . what can i say ?	我的家人......我能說什麼 ?
at the moment , my family is very poor , my life here in shenzhen is just about showing myself that i can earn more and to let my parents stay and have something to live on .	此刻 , 我的家人非常貧窮 , 我生活在深圳 , 只是為了向自己展示 , 我能多賺點錢 , 讓我的父母能留下來 , 活下去 。
i don't want them to spend their whole lives in poverty .	我不希望他們一生都在貧困中度過 。
if someday i can achieve something , i would like to say thank you daddy and mommy .	如果有一天 , 我可以做點什麼 , 我會說謝謝你爸爸和媽媽 。
thank you for having fed me and raised me , and for making my life of today . thank you .	感謝你餵養我並養育我 , 為今天的人生而生 。 謝謝 。
13th man: after seven years now of being in a wheelchair , i've done more in life being in a chair than out of a chair .	第13個男人:七年後 , 坐在輪椅上 , 我在輪椅上過了更多的生活 。
i still surf . i sail the world . i freedive .	我仍然衝浪 。 我航行這個世界 。 我自由 。
after many people said i couldn't do that .	許多人說我不能這樣做 。
and i think that comes from connecting with nature , connecting with the energy of life , because we're all disabled in some way on the planet spiritually , mentally or physically .	我認為這來自於與大自然的連結 , 與生命的能量有關聯 , 因為我們都處在某種程度上 , 精神上、心理上或身體上 。
i got the easy part .	我得到了很簡單的部分 。
14th man: let's say that you and me like each other .	第十四個男人:假設你們我喜歡對方 。
you come from elsewhere .	你來自別處 。
you don't know me . i don't know you .	你不知道我 , 我不知道你 。
we talk without lying .	我們不說謊 。
if i do like you , i give you one cow and many other things and we become friends .	如果我喜歡你 , 我會給你一隻牛和許多其他東西 , 我們就會變成朋友 。
how can we make it all by ourselves ?	我們要如何讓一切都靠自己製造 ?
yab: you can also go to the website , answer respond to the questions also .	雅各:你也可以上網站 , 回答這個問題 。
now i am going to speak to you about my movie .	現在我要跟你們談談我的電影 。
for the last three years , i was shooting the earth for the movie .	過去三年 , 我為這部電影拍攝地球 。
the name of the movie is " home " " maison . "	這部電影的名字是 「 家 」 。
it is about the state of the planet .	它和地球的狀態有關 。
it's a fantastic story of life on the earth .	這是地球上生命的奇妙故事 。
i'm very proud to show you the teaser .	我很自豪地給你們看這個茶 。
video: this earth is four and a half billion years old .	影片:地球是四十五億年的歷史 。
these plants , several hundred million years old .	這些植物 , 幾億年前 。
and we humans have been walking upright for only 200 thousand years .	我們人類直立行走了20萬年 。
we've managed to adapt , and have conquered the whole planet .	我們已經成功適應了 , 並且征服了整個地球 。
for generations , we've been raising our children , not unlike millions of other species living beside us .	世代以來 , 我們一直在養育我們的孩子 , 而不是其他數百萬種生活在我們身邊 。
for the past 30 years i've been closely watching the earth and its dwellers from high up in the sky .	過去30年來 , 我親眼目睹地球和它在天空中從高空而來 。
our life is tied to the wellbeing of our planet .	我們的生命與地球的幸福有關 。
we depend on water , forests , deserts , oceans .	我們依賴水、森林、沙漠、海洋 。
fishing , breeding , farming are still the world's foremost human occupations .	捕魚、繁殖 , 農業仍然是世界上最重要的人類職業 。
and what binds us together is far greater than what divides us .	把我們的結合在一起遠遠比我們分裂的更大 。
we all share the same need for the earth's gifts the same wish to rise above ourselves , and become better .	我們都對地球的禮物有同樣的需求 , 希望能在我們自己上升 , 變得更好 。
and yet we carry on raising walls to keep us apart .	然而 , 我們仍然在養育牆壁來讓我們分裂 。
today our greatest battle is to protect the natural offerings of our planet .	現今 , 我們最大的戰役是要保護地球的自然提供 。
in less than 50 years we've altered it more thoroughly than in the entire history of mankind .	在短短的五十年內 , 我們徹底改變了它 , 遠遠超過人類的整個歷史 。
half of the world's forests have vanished .	世界一半的森林消失了 。
water resources are running low .	水資源的消耗量低 。
intensive farming is depleting soils .	密集農業正在耗盡土壤 。
our energy sources are not sustainable .	我們的能源不是永續的 。
the climate is changing .	氣候正在改變 。
we are endangering ourselves .	我們在危害我們自己 。
we're only trying to improve our lives .	我們只想改善我們的生活 。
but the wealth gaps are growing wider .	但財富差距越來越大 。
we haven't yet understood that we're going at a much faster pace than the planet can sustain .	我們還沒有了解到 , 我們的速度比地球還快得多 。
we know that solutions are available today .	我們知道今天的解決方案是可行的 。
we all have the power to change this trend for the better .	我們都有能力改變這種趨勢 , 讓它變得更好 。
so what are we waiting for ?	所以 , 我們還在等什麼 ?
yab: luc besson is the producer of the movie .	雅伯:lucbson是電影的製作人 。
but it is not a normal movie .	但這不是一般的電影 。
the film is going to be distributed free .	這部電影將免費分配 。
this film has no copyright .	這部電影沒有版權 。
on the five of june , the environment day , everybody can download the movie on internet .	在六月五日 , 環境日 , 每個人都可以在網路上下載電影 。
the film is given for free to the distributor for tv and theater to show it the fifth of june .	這部電影可以免費提供給電視的配送者以及電影院 , 來展示六月五日的五日 。
there is no business on this movie .	這部電影沒有生意 。
it is also available for school , cities , ngos and you .	它也能為學校、城市、非政府組織和你提供 。
we have to believe what we know .	我們必須相信我們所知道的 。
let me tell you something .	讓我告訴你們一些事 。
it's too late to be pessimistic really too late .	實在太遲了 , 太遲了 。
we have all a part of the solutions .	我們都有解決方案的一部分 。
to finish , i would like to welcome the 4 , 700th baby born since the beginning of this talk .	最後 , 我想歡迎四千七百個寶寶出生於這場演說的開頭 。
merci beaucoup . i love you .	mercibeaucoup , 我愛你 。
illustrious jugglers the raspyni brothers show off their uncanny balance , agility , coordination and willingness to sacrifice . now , if you'll just stand completely still . . .	不可思議的雜技演員 , 拉西尼兄弟們展現出他們不可思議的平衡、敏捷、協調 , 以及願意犧牲的意願 。 現在 , 如果你們能完全保持下去......
collaboration , entertainment , humor , physics	合作、娛樂、幽默、物理、物理 。
the raspyni brothers juggle and jest	拉斯佩尼兄弟雜耍和噴射機 。
dan holzman: please throw out the beanbag chairs . here we go .	丹.霍爾曼:請把豆子的椅子丟掉 。 我們開始了 。
barry friedman: there are all kinds of hightech chairs here today , but this is really , i think , when it reached its peak as far as ergonomics , comfort , design , flexibility . . .	今天這裡有各式各樣的高科技椅子 , 但我認為 , 當它到達最高峰 , 即農業、舒適、設計、靈活度......
dh: now obviously , this is not something we do on our regular show ; it's something we just kind of learned for this , so we're going to try . but can we have some inspirational music for the beanbag chairs ?	很明顯的 , 這不是我們一般的節目 , 而是我們剛剛學到的 , 所以我們要嘗試的 。 但我們能不能為 「 豆腐椅子帶來一些啟發性的音樂 ? 」
bf: nice show , daniel , nice show . you are the man !	丹尼爾 , 很好的節目 , 很棒的節目 , 你就是那個人 !
nice show . man , that was good !	很好 , 天啊 ! 太棒了 !
bf: you know , sometimes when people do those , they go all the way down .	布:你知道 , 有時候人們會做這些事 , 他們會一直往下走 。
you actually just did that .	其實你只是這樣做 。
that's the kind of extra effort that's gotten us where we are today . . .	這就是我們現在所做的額外努力 。
dh: all right , let's show them something special .	好 , 讓我們給他們看一些特別的東西 。
bf: . . . without a macarthur grant .	布:沒有任何馬克拉瑟的資金 。
yeah , look at this . you know , all kinds of different . . .	是啊 , 看看這個 。 你知道的 , 各式各樣的......
ted is about invention , let's be honest . right ? dh: yeah , it is .	ted是關於發明 , 老實說 , 對吧 ? dh:是的 。
bf: last night , michael moschen showed some juggling props he has invented and working on .	昨晚 , michaelmoschen展示了一些雜耍的道具 , 他發明和工作 。
right now , dan's going to show something he actually invented .	現在 , 丹將展示他發明的東西 。
dh: a type of juggling i actually invented , right after i saw another juggler do it .	dh:我真的發明了一種雜耍 , 就在我看到另一個雜技表演之後 。
dh: and this is a small excerpt from a longer piece .	dh:這是一段更長的一段演說 。
folks , this is shaker cup juggling . it's not a showstopper but it certainly slows it down .	各位 , 這是shaker杯雜耍 , 不是表演者 , 但它肯定會慢下來 。
bf: oh yeah , it does .	喔 , 是的 , 是的 。
bf: oh , daniel .	丹尼爾:喔 , 丹尼爾 。
bf: ok . dh: oh ! all right .	好 , dh:好的 ! 好的 。
i'm now pushing my luck: i'm skipping right to six cups .	我現在在推動我的運氣:我跳到六個杯子 。
in order to do six cups , i must have perfect control over three with my right hand .	為了做六個杯子 , 我必須要完全掌控三隻手 。
bf: also three with his left .	布:左邊還有三個 。
and now , all six cups . should i do it on the first try or should i miss once on purpose ?	現在 , 所有六個杯子 。 我應該先試一次 , 還是先錯過一次 ?
bf: first try ? once on purpose ?	首先試試一次 ? 偶爾有目的嗎 ?
dh: how about if i try first and then decide ?	嗯 , 如果我先嘗試 , 然後決定呢 ?
bf: good idea . let's leave that . we'll leave that door open .	布:好主意 。 咱們先把那扇門打開 。
dh: he's looking at me .	他看著我 。
bf: that's all right , he does that . all right .	沒錯 , 他做到了 。 好的 。
dh: oh ! it's time for richard's help .	噢 ! 是理查幫忙的時候了 。
oh , good . all right .	喔 , 好 。 好 。 好 。
bf: you know , over the years , every year at the conference , it's kind of become a tradition for us to do something dangerous with richard . and we've always done something with the bullwhips in our act . it's funny , for years i did it with daniel holding balloons .	布:你知道 , 多年來 , 每一年在會議上 , 我們都變成了一種傳統 , 讓我們用理查來做一些危險的事 。 我們總是在我們的行為中做點什麼 。 很有趣 , 多年來 , 我和丹尼爾拿著氣球 。
and then we thought , " how stupid . "	然後我們就想: 「 多麼愚蠢 。 」
dh: excuse me , could we work on the design of the microphone ?	不好意思 , 我們能否設計麥克風 ?
bf: i think that's the next session .	布:我想那是下一場會議 。
bf: yeah . and so we've actually found a way to incorporate richard in this .	布:是的 , 我們確實找到了整合理查的方法 。
he actually assumes more of the danger in this .	實際上 , 他認為這裡面的危險比較多 。
dh: please stand up , richard .	請站起來 , 理查 。
dh: now richard , please . . .	現在 , 理查 , 請...
bf: ok , sorry .	好 , 抱歉 。
dh: jesus christ . richard , please stand in front of me .	耶穌克里斯特 , 理查 , 請站在我面前 。
richard wurman: can i say something ?	理查•沃爾曼:我能說些話嗎 ?
rw: in all past years i've rehearsed with them , the things that have happened to me i have no idea what's going to happen and that's the truth .	雷恩:過去幾年 , 我都和他們一起排練 , 發生在我身上的事 , 我完全不知道會發生什麼事 , 而這就是事實 。
dh: all right , please stand here in front . . .	好 , 請站在前面...
god , i hate that . put your hands out like this , please .	上帝 , 我討厭這點 。 請把你的手放出來 , 像這樣 。
bf: no , come stay up with him .	布:不 , 來陪伴他 。
dan used to actually hold them but now he's got you for protection .	丹以前會真的抱住它們 , 但現在他要保護你 。
it's kind of neat . ok .	很棒 。 好 。
dh: wow , you've been working out .	哇 , 你一直在努力 。
bf: no , shut up !	不 , 閉嘴 !
having a little bit of richard time . that's nice , that's good .	有一點點理查時間 , 很好 , 很好 。
ok , here we go .	好 , 開始吧 。
have him hold your wrist so i can . . .	請他握住你的手腕 , 這樣我才能......
dh: please hold my wrist , will you . bf: yeah , hold this a minute .	請抱住我的手腕 , 請舉一下 。 巴:好 , 握一下 。
ok , hold on .	好 , 等等 。
bf: all those midyear phone calls are coming back to me now , richard .	布:這些中年電話現在都要回來了 , 理查 。
dh: so richard , what were we on the list ? like 1 , 020 ?	查德:我們在列表上是什麼 ? 像1 , 020 ?
bf: i think we were just outside .	布:我想我們就在外面 。
dh: sorry . bf: having some bad flashbacks .	抱歉 。 bf:有一些不好的衝突 。
rw: do you want me to hold you or not ? dh: don't hold me that hard .	雷恩:你想要我抱住你嗎 ? dh:不要抱住我 。
bf: here we go , i'm taking it .	布:來吧 , 我正在拿它 。
dh: one more , one more .	再一個 , 一個 。
bf: we've got one more we're going to do .	布:我們還會再做一次 。
rw: do i get to hold them ?	雷恩:我會拿著它們嗎 ?
bf: you don't want to hold these , trust me .	布:你不想抓住這些 , 相信我 。
dh: could you spread your legs a little bit ?	你能稍微分開你的腿嗎 ?
bf: gloria , you want to do it ? it's very cool .	格魯里亞 , 你想要做嗎 ? 很酷 。
one more try . man , i don't want to get too close .	再試一次 , 老兄 , 我不想太靠近 。
could you just push that ?	可以推動它嗎 ?
dh: wow ! boy !	哇 !
bf: that's cool . i always wanted to try that .	太酷了 , 我一直都想試 。
dh: let's jump this way , though .	不過 , 讓我們這樣跳一下 。
now , we risked richard's life , it's only fair we risk our own lives .	我們冒著理查的生命危險 , 只有公平的是我們自己的生命危險 。
so to do that , i will juggle these three razorsharp sickles .	為了做到這一點 , 我會用這三種分魚的鐮刀來判斷 。
and if that wasn't enough , and judging by your response , it's not . . .	如果這還不夠 , 你的反應就不夠了 。
dh: wow ! bf: hoping for a little more build .	哇 ! 希望能再蓋一點點 。
dh: true . barry . . .	沒錯 , 巴瑞......
bf: i'm going to run up behind him .	布:我會跑到他身後 。
dh: leap over my shoulder .	跳過我的肩膀 。
bf: up and over his shoulders .	布:在他的肩膀上 。
dh: grab the blades in midair , land right there in a pool of blood . . .	拿起半空的刀片 , 就在一群血液中 。
impossible , you say ?	你說不可能嗎 ?
bf: incredible , you say ?	不可思議吧 ?
dh: why bother , you say ?	為什麼你會說 ?
bf: here we go .	開始了 。
dh: just do it juggler boys , you say ?	你說 , 雜耍男生嗎 ?
bf: this guy , this guy invented air .	布:這個傢伙 , 他發明了空氣 。
dh: i think so , that's right .	我想 , 沒錯 。
bf: he invented the pencil .	布:他發明鉛筆 。
dh: all right , we'll do this trick , but please remember it took us over 10 years to perfect .	好吧 , 我們會這樣做 , 但請記住我們花了10年的時間才能完美 。
bf: ten years to perfect , which you're about to see .	布:十年到完美 , 你即將看到的 。
dh: it's not that difficult , we just don't like to practice that much .	不是那麼困難 , 我們只是不喜歡練習那麼多 。
bf: no , it's a hassle . traveling too much .	布:不 , 這是個哈斯勒 , 旅行太多了 。
actually , we will take a second to prove this could be fake that the blades are indeed razorsharp .	實際上 , 我們要花點時間來證明這可能是假的 , 那些刀片的確是瑞士尖銳利 。
dh: will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage ?	有人會把小農場丟到台上嗎 ?
or a virgin for a sacrifice ?	還是犧牲的處女 ?
bf: no , she's got . . . farm animal .	不 , 她有......農場動物 。
dh: do you have a small farm animal ?	你有小型農場動物嗎 ?
just trying to play the odds . all right , here we go .	試試試玩奇數 , 好吧 , 開始吧 。
bf: over the top , over the top .	布:在上方 , 在上方 。
dh: how you feeling , barry ? you feeling all right ?	貝瑞:你感覺如何 ? 你感覺好嗎 ?
bf: yeah , it's all right .	沒錯 , 沒錯 。
dh: do you feel everything's ok ? the atmosphere , the . . .	你覺得一切都沒關係嗎 ? 大氣層......
bf: yeah , a little sketchy .	布:是的 , 有點草圖 。
dh: everything up here's ok ?	上方的一切都好嗎 ?
dh: then here we go .	然後我們開始了 。
bf: this one's a little . . . who's doing the lights ? could you point that a little more directly into my eyeballs ? is that possible ? i can still see a little .	布:這張照片有點......誰在做燈光 ? 你能更直接指出我的眼球嗎 ? 有可能嗎 ? 我還能看到一點 。
dh: and turn up the intensity ; we're still pink in the middle .	強度調高度 , 我們還在中間粉紅 。
we went too far .	我們走得太遠了 。
bf: yeah , it's too far . it's too much of a visual .	沒錯 , 太過遙遠了 , 太多視覺了 。
the design of the body is a whole different thing .	身體的設計是完全不同的東西 。
dh: ready , barry ? bf: over the top .	巴瑞:準備好了嗎 ? bf:在上面 。
dh: may we have our jumping music please ?	請舉個跳躍音樂嗎 ?
may we have it a bit louder ?	我們有沒有更大聲一點 ?
bf: they're a good crew ! whoa !	布:他們是好的船員 !
dh: whoa , sorry . all right .	哇 , 抱歉 。 好 。
bf: we're going on .	布:我們正在進行 。
dh: all right , we'll try again .	好 , 我們再試一次 。
bf: all right ? oh my gosh . oh .	好嗎 ? 天啊 !
dh: all right , here we go . sorry about that .	好 , 來吧 。 抱歉 。
bf: i thought i had the hard part . ok .	布:我以為我有困難的部分 。 好 。
dh: whenever you're ready .	無論何時你準備好 。
bf: there we go !	開始吧 !
all right , get up ! come on and dance ! dh: dance , come on . bf: come on and dance !	好 , 來吧 ! 來跳舞 ! 舞吧 , 來吧 ! 跳吧 !
somebody dance ! come on !	有人跳舞 ! 來吧 !
wow , wow , ok , stop .	哇 , 哇 , 好 , 停下來 。
weird , no one dances . we're two guys doing this .	很奇怪 , 沒有人舞蹈 。 我們是兩個人 。
i think that's uncomfortable for everyone .	我認為這對每個人來說是不舒服的 。
dh: the french judge . . .	法國法官......
bf: one more quick thing .	布:再加快一點 。
dh: the french judge gives it a 5 . 2 .	法國法官給了5.2 。
bf: well , you know . . .	嗯 , 你知道的...
dh: there you go . . . bf: oh , yeah . another one coming in .	嗯 , 是的 , 另外一個來了 。
dh: tell them about our bio and stuff .	告訴他們我們的生物和其他東西 。
bf: yeah . in our bio , some of you may have read that we've won two world juggling championships .	布:是的 , 在我們的生物中 , 有些人可能讀過我們贏得了兩個世界雜耍冠軍 。
and believe it or not , you don't win juggling champions for doing things with bullwhips or shaker cups .	信不信由你不信由你贏得雜耍冠軍 , 因為你不用拼布或洗手間做事 。
we're going to show you right now an excerpt from a routine that we used to wipe out the other juggling team competition .	我們現在要給你們看一段我們以前常常會擦掉其他雜技團隊的競賽 。
dh: i know what you're thinking: other juggling teams must really suck .	我知道你們在想什麼:其他雜耍的團隊一定會很糟糕 。
bf: juggling's got a bad rap .	布:雜耍有不好的饒舌 。
dh: but wait , barry , there's still one more club lying there by my foot .	等等 , 芭瑞 , 還有一個俱樂部躺在我腳邊 。
and look , it has a twin !	看 , 它有一個雙胞胎 !
dh: there's still one more by my foot .	我的腳還有一個 。
what do you want me to do with it ?	你希望我做些什麼呢 ?
bf: richard you tell him , it's your last year .	理查德:你告訴他 , 這是你去年的結果 。
dh: that's a pretty good setup , richard .	這是個非常好的組合 , 理查 。
bf: yeah , it's a good setup . that's a big setup .	是的 , 這是個好的組合 。 這是個很大的組合 。
dh: you can't get any better than that . all right . what i will do: i will use my pantherlike reflexes .	dh:你沒辦法得到更好的 。 好的 。 我會做的是:我會用像那樣的反射來做 。
dh: i got that to reach down and grab that club in my grip of steel .	德瑞克:我抓住那個俱樂部 , 抓住我的鋼鐵 。
dh: i touched it , barry . that should be enough .	貝莉:我碰到巴里 , 那應該夠了 。
bf: it's progress , that's the thing .	布:這是進步 , 就是這樣 。
dh: how about that ? i'll do it again .	怎麼辦 ? 我會再做一次 。
oh wait , it's on your side , barry .	噢 , 等等 , 旁邊是barry 。
and it's awfully windy over there .	這邊是非常風力的
bf: it is , it's weird . you wouldn't think it would affect half the stage , but it is . it's weird .	布:這很奇怪 。 你不會覺得它會影響一半的舞台 , 但它很奇怪 。
watch this: what i'm going to do is slide the seventh one onto my foot .	看這個:我要把第七張投影片投到我的腳上 。
dh: wow ! what a great trick , barry !	哇 ! 太棒了 ! 巴利 !
oh , look how it lies there .	喔 , 看看它怎麼躺在那裡 。
oh , barry , is there nothing you can't do ?	喔 , 巴瑞 , 你做不到什麼嗎 ?
you are my hero . you're my jim shea , jr .	你是我的英雄 , 你是我的吉姆席娜 , jr 。
bf: from my foot , i'll attempt to kick the seventh club . here we go .	布:從我的腳上 , 我會試著踢第七根俱樂部 。 開始吧 。
dh: where , barry ? where ? tell us , barry .	巴瑞:在哪裡 ? 巴瑞 , 告訴我們 , 巴瑞 。
[unclear] eagerly awaits your next syllable . what will it be ?	[不清晰][不清楚][不清楚][不清楚]下一個音響會是什麼 ?
what gem of knowledge ?	知識的重要性是什麼 ?
what pearl of wisdom ?	智慧的珍珠是什麼 ?
do you want to buy a vowel , barry ?	你想要買母音嗎 ?
is that your final answer ?	這是你的最後答案嗎 ?
bf: all right ! you have to turn off the tv from time to time .	布:好吧 ! 你必須隨時關掉電視 。
dh: i do , i do .	沒錯 , 我是 。
bf: from my foot , the kick up in the seven .	從我的腳上踢上七個 。
dh: we will juggle seven .	我們會雜耍七個 。
bf: from six to seven . dh: that's a world's record . bf: really ? dh: for us .	bf:從6到7 。 dh:那是全世界的記錄 。 真的嗎 ? dh:對我們來說 。
dh: whenever you're ready there , big guy .	無論何時你準備好在那裡 , 大人 。
put your tongue away , barry .	把舌頭拿走 , 巴瑞 。
bf: oh , oh , whoa .	喔 , 喔 , 哇 。
dh: please , please stay seated . stay seated . thank you .	請坐好 , 請坐好 , 請坐好 , 請坐好 。 謝謝 。
because now , to make this twice as difficult , we'll juggle the seven clubs back . . .	因為現在 , 要做兩次困難 , 我們會把七根俱樂部拋回來......
dh: . . . to back .	嗯 , 回來
bf: thank you , that's it .	布:謝謝你 , 就這樣 。
bf: thank you guys !	布:謝謝各位 !
dh: thank you very much !	非常謝謝大家 !
in this accessible talk from tedxboston , richard resnick shows how cheap and fast genome sequencing is about to turn health care upside down .	在這場tedxboston的演講中 , 理查德•雷尼克的演講顯示 , 基因序列的便宜和快速基因序列將會減少健康照護 。
dna , biotech , health care , science , technology	dna、生物科技、醫療保健、科學、科技、技術、技術、基因、
richard resnick: welcome to the genomic revolution	理查德•雷尼克:歡迎來到基因革命 。
ladies and gentlemen , i present to you the human genome .	各位先生女士 , 我向你們展示人類基因組 。
chromosome one , top left .	染色體一 , 左上角 。
bottom right are the sex chromosomes .	右下方是性染色體 。
women have two copies of that big x chromosome ; men have the x and , of course , that small copy of the y .	女性有兩份大的x染色體 ; 男性有x , 當然 , y的複製品 。
sorry boys , but it's just a tiny little thing that makes you different .	抱歉 , 男孩 , 但這只是一件小事 , 讓你變得不一樣 。
so if you zoom in on this genome , then what you see , of course , is this double helix structure the code of life spelled out with these four biochemical letters , or we call them bases , right: a , c , g and t .	所以如果你放大這個基因組 , 那麼你會看到的是這雙螺旋結構 , 生命的密碼和這四個生物化學字母拼湊出來 , 或者我們稱它們為基礎 , 即a , c , g和t 。
how many are there in the human genome ? three billion .	人類基因組中有多少 ? 三十億 。
is that a big number ?	這是個很大的數字嗎 ?
well , everybody can throw around big numbers .	嗯 , 每個人都可以隨意丟出大數字 。
but in fact , if i were to place one base on each pixel of this 1280 by 800 resolution screen , we would need 3 , 000 screens to take a look at the genome .	但事實上 , 如果我把每一塊像素放在1280年到800次的解析度螢幕上 , 我們需要3000個螢幕來觀察基因組 。
so it's really quite big .	所以這真的很大 。
and perhaps because of its size , a group of people all , by the way , with y chromosomes decided they would want to sequence it .	或許是因為它的大小 , 一群人 , 順便一提 , y染色體決定要將它定序 。
and so 15 years , actually , and about four billion dollars later , the genome was sequenced and published .	所以 , 15年後 , 大約40億美金後 , 基因組序列和出版 。
in 2003 , the final version was published , and they keep working on it .	在2003年 , 最後的版本被發表 , 他們繼續努力 。
that was all done on a machine that looks like this .	全部的機器看起來就像這樣 。
it costs about a dollar for each base a very slow way of doing it .	每一鹼基要花一塊錢 , 都要花很慢的方式來做這件事 。
well folks , i'm here to tell you that the world has completely changed and none of you know about it .	各位 , 我來這裡要告訴各位 , 世界已經完全改變了 , 沒有人知道 。
so now what we do is we take a genome , we make maybe 50 copies of it , we cut all those copies up into little 50base reads , and then we sequence them , massively parallel .	我們現在做的是將一個基因組做成50個複製 , 我們把所有複製成50個大片 , 然後我們將它們定序 , 大量平行 。
and then we bring that into software , and we reassemble it and we tell you what the story is .	然後我們將它帶入軟體中 , 然後重新組合它 , 告訴你們故事是什麼 。
and so just to give you a picture of what this looks like , the human genome project: 3 gigabases , right .	給你們看一張圖片 , 人類基因組計畫:3gabases , 沒錯 。
one run on one of these machines: 200 gigabases in a week .	一台機器在其中一台:一週200個gbabes 。
and that 200 is going to change to 600 this summer , and there's no sign of this pace slowing .	今年夏天將改變到6000年 , 這種速度沒有跡象 。
so the price of a base , to sequence a base , has fallen 100 million times .	所以基地的價格下降了一億倍 。
that's the equivalent of you filling up your car with gas in 1998 , waiting until 2011 , and now you can drive to jupiter and back twice .	這等同於你在1998年裝滿氣體 , 等到2011年 , 現在你就可以開木星兩次 。
world population , pc placements , the archive of all the medical literature , moore's law , the old way of sequencing , and here's all the new stuff .	世界人口、pc地點、所有醫療文獻的檔案、摩爾定律、舊的方式 , 以及新的東西 。
guys , this is a log scale ; you don't typically see lines that go up like that .	各位 , 這是登革規模 ; 通常你不會看到那樣的線條 。
so the worldwide capacity to sequence human genomes is something like 50 , 000 to 100 , 000 human genomes this year .	所以 , 全球定序人類基因組的能力 , 今年大約是五萬到十萬人基因組 。
and we know this based on the machines that are being placed .	我們都知道 , 基於被安置的機器 。
this is expected to double , triple or maybe quadruple year over year for the foreseeable future .	預期會有兩倍、三倍 , 或可能是一年多的四倍 , 預見的未來 。
in fact , there's one lab in particular that represents 20 percent of all that capacity .	事實上 , 有一間特別的實驗室 , 代表所有這些能力的20% 。
it's called the beijing genomics institute .	它叫做 「 北京基因組學 」 。
the chinese are absolutely winning this race to the new moon , by the way .	順帶一提 , 中國絕對贏得了這個競賽 。
what does this mean for medicine ?	這對醫學有什麼意義 ?
so a woman is age 37 .	所以一個女人37歲 。
she presents with stage 2 estrogen receptorpositive breast cancer .	她有第二階段的雌激素接受乳癌 。
she is treated with surgery , chemotherapy and radiation .	她被手術、化療和輻射治療 。
two years later , she comes back with stage three c ovarian cancer .	兩年後 , 她得了三階段的卵巢癌 。
unfortunately , treated again with surgery and chemotherapy .	不幸的是 , 再次接受手術和化療 。
she comes back three years later at age 42 with more ovarian cancer , more chemotherapy .	三歲後 , 她回到42歲 , 有更多卵巢癌 , 更多的化療 。
six months later , she comes back with acute myeloid leukemia .	六個月後 , 她帶著急性骨髓的白血病回來 。
she goes into respiratory failure and dies eight days later .	她進入呼吸道失敗 , 八天後死亡 。
so first , the way in which this woman was treated , in as little as 10 years , will look like bloodletting .	首先 , 這個女人被治療的方式 , 只要十年 , 就會看起來像血液一樣 。
and it's because of people like my colleague , rick wilson , at the genome institute at washington university , who decided to take a look at this woman postmortem .	因為像我這樣的同事rickwilson , 在華盛頓大學的基因組研究所 , 他決定看這位婦女後期 。
and he sequenced , he took skin cells , healthy skin , and cancerous bone marrow , and he sequenced the whole genomes of both of them in a couple of weeks , no big deal .	他定序、皮膚細胞、健康皮膚、癌症骨髓 , 並在幾個星期內進行完整的基因組 , 沒有什麼大不了的 。
and then he compared those two genomes in software , and what he found , among other things , was a deletion , a 2 , 000base deletion across three billion bases in a particular gene called tp53 .	接著 , 他將這兩種基因組的軟體做比較 , 他發現在其他情況中 , 是一個耗損 , 一個在三十億個鹼基的基因 , 叫做tp53 。
if you have this deleterious mutation in this gene , you're 90 percent likely to get cancer in your life .	如果你在這個基因中有這種全面的突變 , 你的生命中有90%可能罹患癌症 。
so unfortunately , this doesn't help this woman , but it does have severe , profound if you will , implications to her family .	不幸的是 , 這並不能幫助這位女士 , 但這對她的家人來說是很嚴重的 , 深刻的影響 。
i mean , if they have the same mutation , and they get this genetic test , and they understand it , then they can go and get regular screens , and they can catch cancer early and potentially live a significantly longer life .	我的意思是 , 如果他們有相同的突變 , 他們得到了這個基因測試 , 並且他們了解了 , 那麼他們就可以定期的檢查 , 然後他們可以早期發現癌症 , 可能更長壽 。
let me introduce you now to the beery twins , diagnosed with cerebral palsy at the age of two .	現在讓我向你們介紹啤酒雙胞胎 , 診斷出兩歲的腦麻 。
their mom is a very brave woman who didn't believe that the symptoms weren't matching up , and through some heroic efforts and a lot of internet searching , she was able to convince the medical community that , in fact , they had something else .	她們的母親是個非常勇敢的女人 , 她不相信症狀並不符合 , 透過一些英雄式的努力和許多網路搜尋 , 她能夠說服醫學界 , 事實上 , 她們有別的東西 。
what they had was doparesponsive dystonia .	他們的做法是 「 反對障礙症 」 。
and so they were given ldopa , and their symptoms did improve , but they weren't totally asymptomatic .	所以他們得到了對比 , 他們的症狀確實改善了 , 但他們並不完全是症狀 。
turns out the gentleman in this picture is a guy named joe beery , who was lucky enough to be the cio of a company called life technologies .	結果是這張照片裡的男士喬依•貝瑞 , 他很幸運地成為一家叫做生命科技公司的協會 。
they're one of the two companies that makes these massive whole genome sequencing tools .	他們是製造這些大量基因組定序工具的公司之一 。
and so what he did was he got his kids sequenced .	所以他做的是讓他的孩子進行基因序列 。
and what they found was a series of mutations in a gene called spr , which is responsible for producing serotonin , among other things .	他們發現的是一系列的突變 , 叫做spr , 負責產生血清素的基因 。
so on top of ldopa , they gave these kids a serotonin precursor drug , and they're effectively normal now .	所以 , 除了對象之外 , 他們會給這些孩子一種血清素先驅藥 , 現在他們很正常 。
guys , this would never have happened without whole genome sequencing .	各位 , 沒有完整的基因組定序永遠不會發生這種事 。
and at the time this was a few years ago it cost $100 , 000 .	幾年前 , 花費了10萬美金 。
today it's $10 , 000 . next year it's $1 , 000 .	今天是一萬美金 。 明年是一千美金 。
the year after it's $100 , give or take a year .	一百美金後的一年 , 或花一年 。
that's how fast this is moving .	這就快轉了 。
so here's little nick likes batman and squirt guns .	尼克喜歡蝙蝠俠和松鼠槍 。
and it turns out nick shows up at the children's hospital with this distended belly like a famine victim .	結果發現 , 尼克在兒童醫院裡 , 帶著這種漸進的肚子 , 像是饑荒受害者 。
and it's not that he's not eating , it's that when he eats , his intestine basically opens up and feces spill out into his gut .	並不是說他不吃東西 , 而是當他吃東西的時候 , 他的腸子基本上會打開來餵食 , 流進他的腸子裡 。
so a hundred surgeries later , he looks at his mom and says , " mom , please pray for me . i'm in so much pain . "	一百次手術後 , 他看著他的媽媽 , 說: 「 媽 , 為我禱告 , 我很痛苦 。 」
his pediatrician happens to have a background in clinical genetics and he has no idea what's going on , but he says , " let's get this kid's genome sequenced . "	他的小兒科醫生剛好在臨床遺傳學的背景 , 他完全不知道發生什麼事 , 但他說: 「 讓我們把這個孩子的基因序列拿出來 。 」
and what they find is a singlepoint mutation in a gene responsible for controlling programmed cell death .	他們發現 , 一個單點突變的基因負責控制細胞死亡 。
so the theory is that he's having some immunological reaction to what's going on to the food essentially , and that's a natural reaction , which causes some programmed cell death .	所以 , 理論是 , 他對於食物本質上 , 會有一些免疫反應 , 而這是一種自然的反應 , 造成了一些植入細胞死亡 。
but the gene that regulates that down is broken .	但管制下的基因已經壞掉了 。
and so this informs , among other things , of course , a treatment for bone marrow transplant , which he undertakes .	所以 , 這就說明了 , 當然 , 對骨髓移植的治療 , 他也接受了這種治療 。
and after nine months of grueling recovery , he's now eating steak with a1 sauce .	經過九個月的修復之後 , 他正在吃牛排和1醬 。
the prospect of using the genome as a universal diagnostic is upon us today .	用基因組作為普遍診斷的前景 , 今天就在我們眼前 。
today , it's here .	今天 , 它就在這裡 。
and what it means for all of us is that everybody in this room could live an extra five , 10 , 20 years just because of this one thing .	這對我們所有人來說意味著在座的每個人都可以過上五年、十年、二十年 , 只因為這個東西 。
which is a fantastic story , unless you think about humanity's footprint on the planet and our ability to keep up food production .	這是個很棒的故事 , 除非你想想地球上人類的足跡 , 以及我們能維持食物生產的能力 。
so it turns out that the very same technology is also being used to grow new lines of corn , wheat , soybean and other crops that are highly tolerant of drought , of flood , of pests and pesticides .	事實證明 , 同樣的技術也被用來培養玉米、小麥、黃豆 , 及其他高度包容乾旱、洪水、殺蟲劑 。
now look , as long as we continue to increase the population , we're going to have to continue to grow and eat genetically modified foods , and that's the only position that i'll take today .	只要我們持續增加人口數量 , 我們就得要繼續成長 , 吃基因改造的食物 , 這就是我今天所要採取的唯一職位 。
unless there's anybody in the audience that would like to volunteer to stop eating ?	除非觀眾中有任何人願意停止吃飯 ?
none , not one .	沒有 , 沒有人 。
this is a typewriter , a staple of every desktop for decades .	這是一個打字機 , 數十年來每個桌上都有一套 。
and in fact , the typewriter was essentially deleted by this thing .	事實上 , 打字機基本上被這個東西刪除了 。
and then more general versions of word processors came about .	接著 , 更廣泛的詞彙處理器出現了 。
but ultimately , it was a disruption on top of a disruption .	但最終 , 它是顛覆性的破壞 。
it was bob metcalfe inventing the ethernet and the connection of all these computers that fundamentally changed everything .	它是bob金屬電腦 , 發明了乙網 , 以及所有這些電腦的連結 , 它們從根本上改變了一切 。
and suddenly we had netscape , and we had yahoo and we had , indeed , the entire dotcom bubble .	突然間 , 我們有了netscape , 我們有雅虎 , 的確 , 整個網路泡沫 。
not to worry though , that was quickly rescued by the ipod , facebook and , indeed , angry birds .	更不用擔心的是 , 它很快被ipod、facebook和憤怒的鳥類拯救了 。
look , this is where we are today .	看 , 這就是我們現在的樣子 。
this is the genomic revolution today . this is where we are .	這就是現今的基因革命 。 這就是我們所在的地方 。
so what i'd like you to consider is: what does it mean when these dots don't represent the individual bases of your genome , but they connect to genomes all across the planet ?	所以 , 我希望你們考慮的是:當這些點並不代表你基因組的基礎 , 但它們和全世界的基因組連結起來是什麼意思 ?
so i just recently had to buy life insurance .	所以最近我只需要買保險 。
and i was required to answer: a . i have never had a genetic test , b . i've had one , here you go , and c . i've had one and i'm not telling .	我被要求回答:a.我從來沒有任何基因測驗 , b.我有一個 , 你去了c.我有一個 , 我沒有告訴他 。
thankfully , i was able to answer a , and i say that honestly in case my life insurance agent is listening .	謝天謝地 , 我能夠回答a , 我說 , 老實說 , 以防我生命的代理人傾聽 。
but what would have happened if i had said c ?	但如果我說c的話 , 會發生什麼事 ?
consumer applications for genomics , they will flourish .	消費者應用基因組學 , 他們會興盛 。
do you want to see whether you're genetically compatible with your girlfriend ? sure .	你想知道你是不是和女朋友有基因的 ? 當然 。
dna sequencing on your iphone ? there's an app for that .	dna在你的iphone上定序 ? 有一個應用程式 。
personalized genomic massage anyone ?	個人化的基因體量 ?
there's already a lab today that tests for allele 334 of the avpr1 gene , the socalled cheating gene .	今天已經有一間實驗室 , 測試了334個avpr1基因 , 也就是所謂的作弊基因 。
so anybody who's here today with your significant other , just turn over to them and swab their mouth , send it to the lab and you'll know for sure .	所以 , 今天在座的各位 , 請和你們共處的任何人 , 只要轉到牠們的嘴巴 , 把它傳送給實驗室 , 你們就會肯定知道 。
do you really want to elect a president whose genome suggests cardiomyopathy ?	你真的想要選出一位基因組的總統 , 建議心臟病嗎 ?
now think of it , it's 2016 and the leading candidate releases not only her four years of back tax returns , but also her personal genome .	想想看 , 2016年 , 領導的候選人不只會釋放她四年的退稅 , 還會釋放她個人基因組 。
and it looks really good .	看起來很棒 。
and then she challenges all of her competitors to do the same .	接著 , 她挑戰所有的競爭者 , 來做同樣的事 。
do you think that's not going to happen ?	你認為這不會發生嗎 ?
do you think it would have helped john mccain ?	你認為這會幫助約翰麥肯嗎 ?
how many people in the audience have the last name resnick like me ? raise your hand .	觀眾中有多少人有和我一樣的姓氏 ? 請舉手 。
typically , there's one or two .	通常有一兩種 。
so my father's father was one of 10 resnick brothers .	所以 , 我父親的父親是十個尼克兄弟之一 。
they all hated each other .	他們都討厭彼此 。
and they all moved to different parts of the planet .	他們都搬到地球的不同部分 。
so it's likely that i'm related to every resnick that i ever meet , but i don't know .	所以 , 很可能我和所有我遇過的resnick有關 , 但我不知道 。
but imagine if my genome were deidentified , sitting in software , and a third cousin's genome was also sitting there , and there was software that could compare these two and make these associations .	但想像一下 , 如果我的基因組被分類 , 坐在軟體中 , 第三個表親的基因組也坐在那 , 有一個軟體可以比較這兩者 , 並做出相關聯 。
not hard to imagine . my company has software that does this right now .	不難想像 。 我的公司現在有這套軟體 。
and so imagine one more thing: that that software is able to ask both parties for mutual consents , " would you be willing to meet your third cousin ? "	再想像一件事:那個軟體可以要求雙方同意 , 「 你願意和你的第三表親見面嗎 ? 」
and if we both say yes , voila ! welcome to chromosomally linkedin .	如果我們都說是的 , 伏拉 ! 歡迎來到染色體上 。
now this is probably a good thing , right ?	這可能是件好事 , 對吧 ?
you have bigger clan gatherings and so on .	你有更大的團體聚會等等 。
but maybe it's a bad thing as well .	但 , 也許這也是壞事 。
how many fathers in the room ? raise your hands .	房間裡有多少個父親 ? 請舉手 。
okay , so experts think that one to three percent of you are not actually the father of your child .	好吧 , 專家認為有1%到3%的人不是你的孩子的父親 。
look these genomes , these 23 chromosomes , they don't in any way represent the quality of our relationships or the nature of our society at least not yet .	看看這些基因組 , 這些23個染色體 , 它們並不代表我們關係的品質 , 或我們社會的本質 , 至少還沒有出現 。
and like any new technology , it's really in humanity's hands to wield it for the betterment of mankind , or not .	和任何新科技一樣 , 它其實是在人性的手中 , 為了人類的更好 , 或不是 。
and so i urge you all to wake up and to tune in and to influence the genomic revolution that's happening all around you .	所以 , 我鼓勵大家醒來 , 來調整和影響你周遭的基因革命 。
daniel kraft demos his marrow miner a new device that quickly harvests lifesaving bone marrow with minimal pain to the donor . he emphasizes that the adult stem cells found in bone marrow can be used to treat many terminal conditions , from parkinson's to heart disease .	丹尼爾克拉夫示範他的骨髓開採了一個新的裝置 , 快速收集骨髓 , 讓捐贈者的最小疼痛 。 他強調骨髓中發現的成人幹細胞可以被用來治療許多終端疾病 , 從帕金森氏症到心臟疾病 。
biology , biotech , health , health care , medicine , science , technology	生物學、生物科技、醫療保健、醫學、科學、科技、科技、科技、技術、技術、
daniel kraft invents a better way to harvest bone marrow	丹尼爾克拉夫發明了更好的方法來收集骨髓 。
so i am a pediatric cancer doctor and stemcell researcher at stanford university where my clinical focus has been bone marrow transplantation .	我是史丹佛大學的小兒科腫瘤醫生和幹細胞研究員 , 我的臨床焦點是骨髓移植 。
now , inspired by jill bolte taylor last year , i didn't bring a human brain , but i did bring a liter of bone marrow .	去年 , jillbolte泰勒的靈感來源 , 我沒有帶給人腦 , 但我確實帶了一公升的骨髓 。
and bone marrow is actually what we use to save the lives of tens of thousands of patients , most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphoma and some other diseases .	骨髓實際上是用來拯救數萬名病人的生命 , 大部分的患者都有先進的惡性腫瘤 , 如白血病、淋巴瘤 , 以及其他疾病 。
so , a few years ago , i'm doing my transplant fellowship at stanford .	幾年前 , 我在史丹佛大學做移植研究 。
i'm in the operating room . we have bob here , who is a volunteer donor .	我在手術室裡 。 我們這裡有bob , 自願捐贈者 。
we're sending his marrow across the country to save the life of a child with leukemia .	我們把他的骨髓送到全國 , 來拯救白血病孩童的性命 。
so actually how do we harvest this bone marrow ?	所以 , 我們要如何收集這塊骨髓 ?
well we have a whole o . r . team , general anesthesia , nurses , and another doctor across from me .	我們有一整個o.r , 一般麻醉 , 護士 , 還有另一位從我身上穿過的醫生 。
bob's on the table , and we take this sort of small needle , you know , not too big .	巴布在桌子上 , 我們拿著這種小針頭 , 你知道的 , 不是太大 。
and the way we do this is we basically place this through the soft tissue , and kind of punch it into the hard bone , into the tuchus that's a technical term and aspirate about 10 mls of bone marrow out , each time , with a syringe .	我們的做法基本上是把這些東西放到軟組織中 , 把它注入硬骨 , 進入黏液 , 一種技術術語 , 每次都會用針筒吸出大約10隻骨髓 。
and hand it off to the nurse . she squirts it into a tin .	把它交給護士 , 她將它安排成一小塊 。
hands it back to me . and we do that again and again .	把它交給我 。 我們再一次這樣做 。
about 200 times usually .	通常是兩百次 。
and by the end of this my arm is sore , i've got a callus on my hand , let alone bob , whose rear end looks something more like this , like swiss cheese .	在這張手臂的結尾 , 我手上有一通電話 , 更不用說鮑伯 , 他的屁股看起來比較像這樣 , 像是瑞士起士 。
so i'm thinking , you know , this procedure hasn't changed in about 40 years .	所以我在想 , 你知道的 , 這個手術在40年內並沒有改變 。
and there is probably a better way to do this .	這樣做可能有更好的方法 。
so i thought of a minimally invasive approach , and a new device that we call the marrow miner .	所以我想了一個極少入侵的方法 , 一個我們稱之為骨髓礦工的新裝置 。
and the marrow miner , the way it works is shown here .	骨髓礦工 , 它的運作方式在這裡 。
our standard seethrough patient .	我們的標準視診病人 。
instead of entering the bone dozens of times , we enter just once , into the front of the hip or the back of the hip .	與其進入骨頭數十次 , 我們只需要進入一次 , 進入髖骨的前面 , 或髖骨的後面 。
and we have a flexible , powered catheter with a special wire loop tip that stays inside the crunchy part of the marrow and follows the contours of the hip , as it moves around .	我們有彈性、有動力的導管 , 帶有特殊的電線圈圈 , 留在粗糙的骨髓中 , 跟著臀部的轉動 。
so it enables you to very rapidly aspirate , or suck out , rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole .	所以這使得你能迅速地迅速地呼吸 , 或吸收豐富的骨髓 , 迅速地穿過一個洞 。
we can do multiple passes through that same entry .	我們可以通過同樣的入口來傳遞多個訊息 。
and , so , very quickly , bob can just get one puncture , local anesthesia , and do this harvest as an outpatient .	所以 , 很快地 , 鮑勃可以刺穿當地的麻醉 , 做這種收穫是非耐心的 。
so i did a few prototypes . i got a small little grant at stanford .	所以我做了一些原型 。 我在史丹佛得到了一個小小的補助 。
and played around with this a little bit .	再玩一下這個 。
and our team members developed this technology .	我們的團隊成員開發了這項技術 。
and eventually we got two large animals , and pig studies .	最終 , 我們得到兩個大型動物 , 豬研究 。
and we found , to our surprise , that we not only got bone marrow out , but we got 10 times the stem cell activity in the marrow from the marrow miner , compared to the normal device .	我們發現 , 驚訝的是 , 我們不僅得到了骨髓 , 我們還得到了10倍來自骨髓礦工的幹細胞活動 , 相較於正常的裝置 。
this device was just fda approved in the last year .	這個裝置在去年被核准了 。
here is a live patient . you can see it following the flexible curves around .	這裡是現場病人 。 你可以看到它遵循靈活的曲線 。
there will be two passes here , in the same patient , from the same hole .	在同一個病人身上 , 會有兩條路過來 , 來自同一個洞 。
this was done under local anesthesia , as an outpatient .	這在地方麻醉劑的作用下 , 作為一種外在的力量 。
and we got , again , about three to six times more stem cells than the standard approach done on the same patient .	同樣的 , 我們得到的幹細胞 , 比同一個病人的標準方法要多三到六倍 。
so why should you care ? bone marrow is a very rich source of adult stem cells .	為什麼要在乎呢 ? 骨髓是成人幹細胞的豐富來源 。
you all know about embryonic stem cells .	你們都知道胚胎幹細胞 。
they've got great potential but haven't yet entered clinical trials .	他們有很大的潛力 , 但還沒有進入臨床試驗 。
adult stem cells are throughout our body , including the bloodforming stem cells in our bone marrow , which we've been using as a form of stemcell therapy for over 40 years .	成人幹細胞在我們的身體中 , 包括骨髓內的血液幹細胞 , 我們一直以來使用這種幹細胞療法 , 治療超過40年 。
in the last decade there's been an explosion of use of bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient's other diseases such as heart disease , vascular disease , orthopedics , tissue engineering , even in neurology to treat parkinson's and diabetes .	在過去十年 , 骨髓幹細胞被大量使用 , 來治療病人的其他疾病 , 比如心臟疾病、血管疾病、組織工程 , 甚至神經學治療帕金森氏症和糖尿病 。
we've just come out , we're commercializing , this year , generation 2 . 0 of the marrow miner .	我們剛剛出來 , 今年我們將商業化 , 第2.0個骨髓礦工 。
the hope is that this gets more stem cells out , which translates to better outcomes .	希望這能得到更多幹細胞 , 轉化成更好的結果 。
it may encourage more people to sign up to be potential livesaving bone marrow donors .	它可能會鼓勵更多人登記成為拯救生命的骨髓捐助者 。
it may even enable you to bank your own marrow stem cells , when you're younger and healthier , to use in the future should you need it .	它甚至可能讓你可以銀行你自己的骨髓幹細胞 , 當你年輕時 , 用在未來 , 你應該需要它 。
and ultimately and here's a picture of our bone marrow transplant survivors , who come together for a reunion each year at stanford .	最終 , 這張照片是我們的骨髓移植者 , 每年在史丹佛 , 他們聚集在一起 。
hopefully this technology will let us have more of these survivors in the future .	希望這項技術能讓我們未來有更多這些倖存者 。
physicist and surfer garrett lisi presents a controversial new model of the universe that just maybe answers all the big questions . if nothing else , it's the most beautiful 8dimensional model of elementary particles and forces you've ever seen .	物理學家和衝浪者蓋瑞特•里西提出一個有爭議的宇宙模型 , 可能只能回答所有大問題 。 如果沒有 , 它是你所見過最美麗的八度空間粒子和力的模型 。
physics , science , technology	物理 , 科學 , 科技 , 科技 ,
garrett lisi on his theory of everything	garretlisi在他所有事物理論的理論上 , 解釋了他的想法 。
whoa , dude . check out those killer equations . sweet .	哇 , 老兄 。 看看那些殺手方程式 。 甜 。
actually , for the next 18 minutes i'm going to do the best i can to describe the beauty of particle physics without equations .	事實上 , 接下來的18分鐘 , 我要盡我所能地描述粒子物理的美麗 , 沒有方程式 。
it turns out there's a lot we can learn from coral .	結果發現 , 珊瑚有很多我們可以學到的 。
coral is a very beautiful and unusual animal .	珊瑚是非常美麗且不尋常的動物 。
each coral head consists of thousand of individual polyps .	每個珊瑚的頭都是成千上萬個珊瑚蟲 。
these polyps are continually budding and branching into genetically identical neighbors .	這些複合劑持續在基因上分支成一模一樣的鄰居 。
if we imagine this to be a hyperintelligent coral , we can single out an individual and ask him a reasonable question .	如果我們想像這是個高智能的珊瑚 , 我們可以把一個人分開 , 問他一個合理的問題 。
we can ask how exactly he got to be in this particular location compared to his neighbors if it was just chance , or destiny , or what ?	我們可以問他在這個特定的地點與他的鄰居相比 , 如果他有機會 , 或是命運 , 或什麼 ?
now , after admonishing us for turning the temperature up too high , he would tell us that our question was completely stupid .	在我們把溫度調高之後 , 他會告訴我們 , 我們的問題很愚蠢 。
these corals can be quite kind of mean , you see , and i have surfing scars to prove that .	這些珊瑚可以是很有意義的 , 你看 , 我有衝浪的傷疤來證明這一點 。
but this polyp would continue and tell us that his neighbors were quite clearly identical copies of him .	但這複製劑會繼續告訴我們 , 他的鄰居非常相同 。
that he was in all these other locations as well , but experiencing them as separate individuals .	他也在其它的地點裡 , 但他們是獨立的個體 。
for a coral , branching into different copies is the most natural thing in the world .	對珊瑚而言 , 分支成不同的複製品是世上最自然的東西 。
unlike us , a hyperintelligent coral would be uniquely prepared to understand quantum mechanics .	不像我們 , 超級智能珊瑚會特別準備好了解量子力學 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics very accurately describes how our universe works .	量子力學的數學準確描述宇宙是如何運作的 。
and it tells us our reality is continually branching into different possibilities , just like a coral .	它告訴我們 , 我們的現實不斷地擴展到不同的可能性 , 就像珊瑚一樣 。
it's a weird thing for us humans to wrap our minds around , since we only ever get to experience one possibility .	這對我們人類來說是一件很奇怪的事 , 因為我們只能體驗到一個可能性 。
this quantum weirdness was first described by erwin schrödinger and his cat .	這種量子的奇蹟首先被赫丁格和他的貓所描述 。
the cat likes this version better .	貓比較喜歡這個版本 。
in this setup , schrödinger is in a box with a radioactive sample that , by the laws of quantum mechanics , branches into a state in which it is radiated and a state in which it is not .	在這組合中 , 薛丁格是一個放射性樣本 , 由量子力學定律 , 分布到一個放射性狀態 , 而不是放射的狀態 。
in the branch in which the sample radiates , it sets off a trigger that releases poison and schrödinger is dead .	在這個分支中 , 樣本放射 , 釋放毒藥和薛丁格的觸發器已經死了 。
but in the other branch of reality , he remains alive .	但在現實中 , 他仍然活著 。
these realities are experienced separately by each individual .	每個個體都能感受到這些現實 。
as far as either can tell , the other one doesn't exist .	儘管如此 , 另一隻也不存在 。
this seems weird to us , because each of us only experiences an individual existence , and we don't get to see other branches .	這對我們來說很怪異 , 因為我們每一個人只經歷一個個體存在 , 而我們卻沒有看到其他的分支 。
it's as if each of us , like schrödinger here , are a kind of coral branching into different possibilities .	就像我們每個人 , 像這裡的薛丁格 , 都是一種珊瑚分裂成不同的可能性 。
the mathematics of quantum mechanics tells us this is how the world works at tiny scales .	量子力學的數學告訴我們這個世界是如此的微小 。
it can be summed up in a single sentence: everything that can happen , does .	它可以用單一句話來總結:所有可能發生的事 , 都會發生 。
but this does not mean everything happens .	但這並不意味著一切都會發生 。
the rest of physics is about describing what can happen and what can't .	其餘的物理則是描述可能發生的事以及無法發生的事 。
what physics tells us is that everything comes down to geometry and the interactions of elementary particles .	物理告訴我們 , 所有東西都來到幾何和基本粒子的互動 。
and things can happen only if these interactions are perfectly balanced .	唯有這些互動是完全平衡的 。
now i'll go ahead and describe how we know about these particles , what they are and how this balance works .	現在我要描述我們對這些粒子的了解 , 它們是什麼 , 以及平衡的運作方式 。
in this machine , a beam of protons and antiprotons are accelerated to near the speed of light and brought together in a collision , producing a burst of pure energy .	在這台機器中 , 質子和反質子的光線加速到接近光速的速度 , 並聚集在一起 , 產生出純能量 。
this energy is immediately converted into a spray of subatomic particles , with detectors and computers used to figure out their properties .	這種能量馬上被轉換成亞原子粒子的噴霧 , 用偵測器和電腦來找出它們的特性 。
this enormous machine the large hadron collider at cern in geneva has a circumference of 17 miles and , when it's operating , draws five times as much power as the city of monterey .	這個巨大的機器 , 大型強子對撞機──在日內瓦的cern有一個十七英哩的圈子 , 當它在運作時 , 會把五倍的能量畫成蒙特瑞市 。
we can't predict specifically what particles will be produced in any individual collision .	我們不能明確地預測粒子在任何個體碰撞中會產生什麼 。
quantum mechanics tells us all possibilities are realized .	量子力學告訴我們所有可能性都已經實現了 。
but physics does tell us what particles can be produced .	但物理告訴我們 , 粒子可以產生什麼 。
these particles must have just as much mass and energy as is carried in by the proton and antiproton .	這些粒子需要的質量和能量就等於質子和反質子 。
any particles more massive than this energy limit aren't produced , and remain invisible to us .	任何比這個能量限制更大的粒子都不會產生 , 對我們來說仍然是看不見的 。
this is why this new particle accelerator is so exciting .	這就是為什麼這個新粒子加速器如此令人興奮 。
it's going to push this energy limit seven times beyond what's ever been done before , so we're going to get to see some new particles very soon .	它會把這個能源限制推到前七次之外 , 所以我們很快就會看到一些新的粒子 。
but before talking about what we might see , let me describe the particles we already know of .	但在談到我們所見到的之前 , 讓我描述一下我們已經知道的粒子 。
there's a whole zoo of subatomic particles .	有一大堆亞原子粒子 。
most of us are familiar with electrons .	我們大部分人都熟悉電子 。
a lot of people in this room make a good living pushing them around .	這間房間裡有很多人 , 讓它們能過得很好 。
but the electron also has a neutral partner called the neutrino , with no electric charge and a very tiny mass .	但電子也有中性夥伴 , 稱為中子 , 沒有電荷和極小的質量 。
in contrast , the upanddown quarks have very large masses , and combine in threes to make the protons and neutrons inside atoms .	相對的 , 上游的夸克有很大的質量 , 三分之三的組合 , 使原子和中子內部的質子和中子 。
all of these matter particles come in left and righthanded varieties , and have antiparticle partners that carry opposite charges .	所有這些物質粒子都出現在左邊和右邊的品種 , 帶著相反載荷的抗粒子 。
these familiar particles also have less familiar second and third generations , which have the same charges as the first but have much higher masses .	這些熟悉的粒子也比較不熟悉的第二代和第三代 , 相同的載荷和第一代相同 , 質量較高 。
these matter particles all interact with the various force particles .	這些物質粒子都和各種粒子互動 。
the electromagnetic force interacts with electrically charged matter via particles called photons .	電磁力通過稱為光子的粒子 , 與電荷相互作用 。
there is also a very weak force called , rather unimaginatively , the weak force , that interacts only with lefthanded matter .	還有一種非常微弱的力量 , 叫做 , 非常不可思議 , 弱力 , 只與左撇子相互作用 。
the strong force acts between quarks which carry a different kind of charge , called color charge , and come in three different varieties: red , green and blue .	夸克的強力作用 , 帶有不同的載荷 , 稱為色荷 , 三種不同的顏色:紅、綠、藍 。
you can blame murray gellmann for these names they're his fault .	你可以怪罪murraygellmann的名字 , 他們是他的錯 。
finally , there's the force of gravity , which interacts with matter via its mass and spin .	最後 , 有引力的力量 , 會透過它的質量和旋轉來與物質互動 。
the most important thing to understand here is that there's a different kind of charge associated with each of these forces .	最重要的是 , 每一種力量都有不同的指控 。
these four different forces interact with matter according to the corresponding charges that each particle has .	這四種不同的力量 , 根據每個粒子所擁有的對應電荷來互動 。
a particle that hasn't been seen yet , but we're pretty sure exists , is the higgs particle , which gives masses to all these other particles .	尚未見過的粒子 , 但我們很確定存在 , 就是希格斯粒子 , 給予所有其他粒子質量 。
the main purpose of the large hadron collider is to see this higgs particle , and we're almost certain it will .	大型強子對撞機的主要目的是看到希格斯粒子 , 我們幾乎確定它會 。
but the greatest mystery is what else we might see .	但最偉大的奧秘是我們看到的 。
and i'm going to show you one beautiful possibility towards the end of this talk .	接下來我要給你們看一個美麗的可能性 , 關於這場演說的尾聲 。
now , if we count up all these different particles using their various spins and charges , there are 226 .	如果我們用不同的旋轉和載荷來計算這些不同的粒子 , 就會有226個 。
that's a lot of particles to keep track of .	有很多粒子可以追蹤 。
and it seems strange that nature would have so many elementary particles .	很奇怪 , 大自然會有這麼多基本粒子 。
but if we plot them out according to their charges , some beautiful patterns emerge .	但如果我們根據他們的指控來繪製它們 , 有些美麗的圖案就會出現 。
the most familiar charge is electric charge .	最熟悉的電荷是電荷 。
electrons have an electric charge , a negative one , and quarks have electric charges in thirds .	電子有負電 , 負電 , 夸克有三分之三的電荷 。
so when two up quarks and a down quark are combined to make a proton , it has a total electric charge of plus one .	所以當兩個夸克和一個下夸克結合成一個質子時 , 它總有一連串的電荷 。
these particles also have antiparticles , which have opposite charges .	這些粒子也有反粒子 , 也有相反的載荷 。
now , it turns out the electric charge is actually a combination of two other charges: hypercharge and weak charge .	結果發現 , 電荷實際上是兩個載荷結合:超載和弱載荷 。
if we spread out the hypercharge and weak charge and plot the charges of particles in this twodimensional charge space , the electric charge is where these particles sit along the vertical direction .	如果我們散播超電荷和弱電荷 , 將粒子的載荷畫在這個二維電荷空間中 , 電荷就是這些粒子在垂直方向的位置 。
the electromagnetic and weak forces interact with matter according to their hypercharge and weak charge , which make this pattern .	電磁力和弱力相互作用 , 根據超電荷和弱電荷 , 產生這個模式 。
this is called the unified electroweak model , and it was put together back in 1967 .	這被稱為 「 傾斜模式 」 , 它在1967年被整合起來 。
the reason most of us are only familiar with electric charge and not both of these is because of the higgs particle .	我們大部分人只熟悉電荷 , 而不是兩者都是因為希格斯粒子 。
the higgs , over here on the left , has a large mass and breaks the symmetry of this electroweak pattern .	左邊的希格斯有一個很大的質量 , 打破了電子模式的對稱性 。
it makes the weak force very weak by giving the weak particles a large mass .	它讓弱力變得很弱 , 是因為給予弱粒子一個大質量 。
since this massive higgs sits along the horizontal direction in this diagram , the photons of electromagnetism remain massless and interact with electric charge along the vertical direction in this charge space .	由於這個巨大的希格斯粒位置沿著地平線的方向 , 電磁學的光子仍然是無質量的 , 和電荷在這個載荷空間的垂直方向相互作用 。
so the electromagnetic and weak forces are described by this pattern of particle charges in twodimensional space .	所以電磁力和弱力被二維空間中的粒子載荷所描述 。
we can include the strong force by spreading out its two charge directions and plotting the charges of the force particles in quarks along these directions .	我們可以把強力納入其中 , 藉由推廣兩個載荷方向 , 將引力粒子標記在這些方向上 。
the charges of all known particles can be plotted in a fourdimensional charge space , and projected down to two dimensions like this so we can see them .	所有已知粒子的載荷可以在四維空間中繪製 , 並投射到像這樣的二維空間 , 這樣我們就能看見它們 。
whenever particles interact , nature keeps things in a perfect balance along all four of these charge directions .	每當粒子互動時 , 大自然就會在四個載荷方向保持平衡 。
if a particle and an antiparticle collide , it creates a burst of energy and a total charge of zero in all four charge directions .	如果粒子和抗粒子碰撞 , 它會造成四個載荷方向的能量和全部載荷 。
at this point , anything can be created as long as it has the same energy and maintains a total charge of zero .	此時此刻 , 任何東西都可以產生相同的能量 , 並維持無數的載荷 。
for example , this weak force particle and its antiparticle can be created in a collision .	例如 , 這種弱力粒子和它的抗粒子可以在碰撞中產生 。
in further interactions , the charges must always balance .	在進一步的互動中 , 載荷必須保持平衡 。
one of the weak particles could decay into an electron and an antineutrino , and these three still add to zero total charge .	其中一個微弱的粒子可以腐爛成一個電子 , 和一個反中子 , 這三個粒子仍然加入零電荷 。
nature always keeps a perfect balance .	自然總是保持完美的平衡 。
so these patterns of charges are not just pretty .	所以這些載荷的模式並不只是漂亮的 。
they tell us what interactions are allowed to happen .	他們告訴我們什麼樣的互動被允許發生 。
and we can rotate this charge space in four dimensions to get a better look at the strong interaction , which has this nice hexagonal symmetry .	我們可以在四維空間中旋轉這個載荷空間 , 來更好地觀察強烈的互動 , 強烈的交互作用 , 這種六角形的對稱性 。
in a strong interaction , a strong force particle , such as this one , interacts with a colored quark , such as this green one , to give a quark with a different color charge this red one .	在強烈的互動中 , 強力粒子 , 比如這個 , 和有顏色的夸克互動 , 比如這個綠色的夸克 , 給一個夸克 , 上面有不同的顏色 , 上面有紅色的 。
and strong interactions are happening millions of times each second in every atom of our bodies , holding the atomic nuclei together .	強烈的互動每秒都在發生數百萬次 , 發生在我們身體的每個原子裡 , 把原子核結合在一起 。
but these four charges corresponding to three forces are not the end of the story .	但這四種載荷相對應三種力量並不是故事的終結 。
we can also include two more charges corresponding to the gravitational force .	我們也可以把兩個載荷與重力相對應 。
when we include these , each matter particle has two different spin charges , spinup and spindown .	當我們包含這些粒子時 , 每一個粒子都有兩個不同的旋轉載荷、旋轉和旋轉 。
so they all split , and give a nice pattern in sixdimensional charge space .	所以他們都分開了 , 在六度載荷空間中給一個好的圖案 。
we can rotate this pattern in six dimensions , and see that it's quite pretty .	我們可以在六維空間中旋轉這個模式 , 看它很漂亮 。
right now , this pattern matches our best current knowledge of how nature is built at the tiny scales of these elementary particles .	目前 , 這種模式符合我們目前最好的知識 , 了解大自然是如何在這些基本粒子的微小尺度上建造出來的 。
this is what we know for certain .	這就是我們所知道的 。
some of these particles are at the very limit of what we've been able to reach with experiments .	有些粒子是極限的 , 是我們實驗所能達到的 。
from this pattern , we already know the particle physics of these tiny scales . the way the universe works with these tiny scales is very beautiful .	從這個模式 , 我們已經知道這些微小的尺度的粒子物理 。 宇宙和這些微小的尺度是非常美麗的 。
but now i'm going to discuss some new and old ideas about things we don't know yet .	現在我要談談一些我們還不知道的新舊點子 。
we want to expand this pattern using mathematics alone , and see if we can get our hands on the whole enchilada .	我們想要用數學來拓展這個模式 , 看看我們能否把手放在整個奇拉達上 。
we want to find all the particles and forces that make a complete picture of our universe .	我們想要找到所有能完成宇宙的粒子和力 。
and we want to use this picture to predict new particles that we'll see when experiments reach higher energies .	我們想要用這張照片來預測新的粒子 , 我們會看到什麼實驗能達到更高的能量 。
so there's an old idea in particle physics that this known pattern of charges , which is not very symmetric , could emerge from a more perfect pattern that gets broken similar to how the higgs particle breaks the electroweak pattern to give electromagnetism .	粒子物理學有一個古老的概念 , 這種已知的載荷型態 , 不對稱性 , 可以從更完美的模式中產生 , 就像希格斯粒子破壞了電磁圖案 , 產生電磁作用 。
in order to do this , we need to introduce new forces with new charge directions .	為了做到這一點 , 我們需要引進新的載荷方向 。
when we introduce a new direction , we get to guess what charges the particles have along this direction , and then we can rotate it in with the others .	當我們介紹一個新的方向時 , 我們會猜測在這個方向上有哪些粒子 , 然後我們就可以把它轉動到另一個方向 。
if we guess wisely , we can construct the standard charges in six charge dimensions as a broken symmetry of this more perfect pattern in seven charge dimensions .	如果我們明智地猜測 , 我們就能在六度載荷空間中建立標準載荷 , 作為這類更完美的七度載荷系統的對稱性 。
this particular choice corresponds to a grand unified theory introduced by pati and salam in 1973 .	這特定的選擇與1973年由pati和salam提出的統一理論有關 。
when we look at this new unified pattern , we can see a couple of gaps where particles seem to be missing .	當我們觀察這個新的統一模式時 , 我們可以看到一些缺失的空隙 。
this is the way theories of unification work .	這就是統一理論運作的方式 。
a physicist looks for larger , more symmetric patterns that include the established pattern as a subset .	物理學家尋找更大、更對稱的模式 , 包括後代建立的模式 。
the larger pattern allows us to predict the existence of particles that have never been seen .	更大的模式讓我們能夠預測從未見過的粒子存在 。
this unification model predicts the existence of these two new force particles , which should act a lot like the weak force , only weaker .	這種統一的模型預測了這兩個新勢力粒子的存在 , 它應該很像弱力 , 只有弱力 。
now we can rotate this set of charges in seven dimensions and consider an odd fact about the matter particles: the second and third generations of matter have exactly the same charges in sixdimensional charge space as the first generation .	現在 , 我們可以在七維空間中旋轉這組載荷 , 並考慮關於粒子的奇怪事實:第二代和第三代的物質在六度載荷空間中有完全相同的載荷 。
these particles are not uniquely identified by their six charges .	這些粒子並不獨特地被它們的六個載荷所識別 。
they sit on top of one another in the standard charge space .	在標準載荷空間中 , 他們坐在彼此的上方 。
however , if we work in eightdimensional charge space , then we can assign unique new charges to each particle .	然而 , 如果我們在八度載荷空間中工作 , 我們就能把每個粒子獨特的新載荷給每個粒子 。
then we can spin these in eight dimensions , and see what the whole pattern looks like .	接著 , 我們可以在八度空間中旋轉 , 看看整個模式是什麼樣子 。
here we can see the second and third generations of matter now related to the first generation by a symmetry called " triality . "	這裡我們可以看到第二代和第三代的物質 , 與第一代的對稱性有關 , 叫做 「 實驗性 」 。
this particular pattern of charges in eight dimensions is actually part of the most beautiful geometric structure in mathematics .	這種在八度空間中的載荷模式其實是數學中最美麗的幾何結構之一 。
it's a pattern of the largest exceptional lie group , e8 .	它是最多例外謊言團體的模式e8 。
this lie group is a smooth , curved shape with 248 dimensions .	這個謊言團體是平滑彎曲的形狀有248度 。
each point in this pattern corresponds to a symmetry of this very complex and beautiful shape .	這種模式的每一個點都對應到這種非常複雜且美麗的形狀的對稱性 。
one small part of this e8 shape can be used to describe the curved spacetime of einstein's general relativity , explaining gravity .	這個e8形狀的一小部分可以用來描述愛因斯坦的廣義相對論 , 解釋重力 。
together with quantum mechanics , the geometry of this shape could describe everything about how the universe works at the tiniest scales .	有了量子力學 , 這種形狀的幾何形狀可以描述宇宙在最小的尺度下運作的一切 。
the pattern of this shape living in eightdimensional charge space is exquisitely beautiful , and it summarizes thousands of possible interactions between these elementary particles , each of which is just a facet of this complicated shape .	生活在八度載荷空間的這種形狀的形狀非常美麗 , 它總結了數千個基本粒子之間的互動 , 每一個形狀都是這個複雜的形狀 。
as we spin it , we can see many of the other intricate patterns contained in this one .	隨著我們旋轉 , 我們可以看到許多複雜的圖案包含在這個圖案中 。
and with a particular rotation , we can look down through this pattern in eight dimensions along a symmetry axis and see all the particles at once .	有了特定的旋轉 , 我們可以在八度空間中觀察這個模式 , 同時觀察到所有粒子 。
it's a very beautiful object , and as with any unification , we can see some holes where new particles are required by this pattern .	它是一個非常美麗的物體 , 如同任何統一 , 我們可以看到一些新粒子被這個模式所需要 。
there are 20 gaps where new particles should be , two of which have been filled by the patisalam particles .	那裡有20個空隙 , 新粒子應該是其中兩個被愛國分子填滿 。
from their location in this pattern , we know that these new particles should be scalar fields like the higgs particle , but have color charge and interact with the strong force .	從它們在這個模式的位置 , 我們知道這些新粒子應該像希格斯粒子一樣 , 但有顏色載荷 , 和強力交互作用 。
filling in these new particles completes this pattern , giving us the full e8 .	這些新粒子填滿了這個模式給我們全e8
this e8 pattern has very deep mathematical roots .	這個e8圖案有很深的數學根 。
it's considered by many to be the most beautiful structure in mathematics .	它被許多人認為是數學中最美麗的結構 。
it's a fantastic prospect that this object of great mathematical beauty could describe the truth of particle interactions at the smallest scales imaginable .	這是一個很棒的前景 , 就是這個偉大的數學美麗的物體 , 可以用最小的尺度來描述粒子互動的真相 。
and this idea that nature is described by mathematics is not at all new .	大自然被數學描述的這個想法完全不是新的想法 。
in 1623 , galileo wrote this: " nature's grand book , which stands continually open to our gaze , is written in the language of mathematics .	在1623年 , 伽利略寫了這篇文章: 「 大自然的偉大書 , 一直打開我們的眼神 , 寫在數學的語言中 。
its characters are triangles , circles and other geometrical figures , without which it is humanly impossible to understand a single word of it ; without these , one is wandering around in a dark labyrinth . "	它的角色是三角形、圓圈和其他幾何形狀的角色 , 沒有這種形狀 , 無法了解單一字 ; 沒有這些 , 一個是深色迷宮的周圍 。 」
i believe this to be true , and i've tried to follow galileo's guidance in describing the mathematics of particle physics using only triangles , circles and other geometrical figures .	我相信這是真的 , 我試著遵循伽利略的指導 , 用三角形、圓形和其他幾何形狀來描述粒子物理 。
of course , when other physicists and i actually work on this stuff , the mathematics can resemble a dark labyrinth .	當然 , 當其他物理學家和我實際研究這些東西時 , 數學可以組成一個暗迷宮 。
but it's reassuring that at the heart of this mathematics is pure , beautiful geometry .	但 , 確保在數學的核心是純粹、美麗的幾何形狀 。
joined with quantum mechanics , this mathematics describes our universe as a growing e8 coral , with particles interacting at every location in all possible ways according to a beautiful pattern .	與量子力學結合 , 這個數學將我們的宇宙描述為生長的e8珊瑚 , 粒子在每個位置相互作用 , 根據美麗的圖案 。
and as more of the pattern comes into view using new machines like the large hadron collider , we may be able to see whether nature uses this e8 pattern or a different one .	更重要的是 , 使用像大型強子對撞機這樣的新機器 , 我們也許能看到大自然是否使用e8圖案 , 或另一個圖案 。
this process of discovery is a wonderful adventure to be involved in .	這個發現的過程是個很棒的冒險 。
if the lhc finds particles that fit this e8 pattern , that will be very , very cool .	如果lhc找到符合e8圖案的粒子 , 那會非常、非常酷 。
if the lhc finds new particles , but they don't fit this pattern well , that will be very interesting , but bad for this e8 theory .	如果lhc發現新的粒子 , 但它們不符合這個模式 , 那會很有趣 , 但對這個e8理論來說不好 。
and , of course , bad for me personally .	當然 , 對我個人來說不好 。
now how bad would that be ?	那會多糟 ?
well , pretty bad .	嗯 , 真的很糟 。
but predicting how nature works is a very risky game .	但預測大自然如何運作是個很危險的遊戲 。
this theory and others like it are long shots .	這種理論和其它類似的理論是長的 。
one does a lot of hard work knowing that most of these ideas probably won't end up being true about nature .	許多努力都知道 , 大部分這些想法可能不會成真 。
that's what doing theoretical physics is like: there are a lot of wipeouts .	理論物理就是這樣:有很多的線條 。
in this regard , new physics theories are a lot like startup companies .	在這個領域 , 新的物理理論就像新創公司一樣 。
as with any large investment , it can be emotionally difficult to abandon a line of research when it isn't working out .	就如同任何大型投資 , 情緒上來說 , 要拋棄一行不通的研究線條 。
but in science , if something isn't working , you have to toss it out and try something else .	但在科學上 , 如果有東西行不通 , 你就得試試別的 。
now , the only way to maintain sanity and achieve happiness in the midst of this uncertainty is to keep balance and perspective in life .	現在 , 唯一能維持正直並達成快樂的方法 , 就是維持生活的平衡和觀點 。
i've tried the best i can to live a balanced life .	我盡全力去過平衡生活 。
i try to balance my life equally between physics , love and surfing my own three charge directions .	我試著平衡我的生活 , 包括物理、愛 , 以及衝浪我自己的三個載荷方向 。
this way , even if the physics i work on comes to nothing , i still know i've lived a good life .	這樣一來 , 即使我工作的物理什麼都沒出現 , 我仍然知道我過著美好的生活 。
and i try to live in beautiful places .	我試著生活在美麗的地方 。
for most of the past ten years i've lived on the island of maui , a very beautiful place .	過去十年來 , 我住在毛伊島 , 一個非常美麗的地方 。
now it's one of the greatest mysteries in the universe to my parents how i managed to survive all that time without engaging in anything resembling fulltime employment .	它是宇宙中最偉大的謎之一 , 讓我的父母 , 我如何能一直存活下來 , 卻沒有全職工作機會 。
i'm going to let you in on that secret .	我要給你們看那個秘密 。
this was a view from my home office on maui .	這是我在maui的家庭辦公室的景象 。
and you may have noticed that these beautiful views are similar , but in slightly different places .	你可能已經注意到這些美麗的觀點是相似的 , 但有些不同的地方 。
that's because this used to be my home and office on maui .	那是因為它以前是我的家 , 在maui的辦公室 。
i've chosen a very unusual life .	我選擇了一個非常不尋常的人生 。
but not worrying about rent allowed me to spend my time doing what i love .	但不用擔心房租讓我花時間做我愛的事 。
living a nomadic existence has been hard at times , but it's allowed me to live in beautiful places and keep a balance in my life that i've been happy with .	有時 , 過著遊牧的存在很困難 , 但這讓我能生活在美麗的地方 , 保持平衡 , 讓我很開心 。
it allows me to spend a lot of my time hanging out with hyperintelligent coral .	它讓我能花很多時間和超級智慧的珊瑚在一起 。
but i also greatly enjoy the company of hyperintelligent people .	但我也很享受超級聰明人的公司 。
so i'm very happy to have been invited here to ted .	我很高興能被邀請到ted 。
chris anderson: i probably understood two percent of that , but i still absolutely loved it . so i'm going to sound dumb .	克里斯•安德森:我可能了解這點的百分之二 , 但我仍然很喜歡它 。 所以我會聽起來很笨 。
your theory of everything garrett lisi: i'm used to coral .	所有有關garretlisi的理論:我習慣珊瑚 。
ca: that's right . the reason it's got a few people at least excited is because , if you're right , it brings gravity and quantum theory together .	克里斯:沒錯 , 原因很少人會感到興奮 , 因為如果你是對的 , 它會把引力和量子理論結合在一起 。
so are you saying that we should think of the universe , at its heart that the smallest things that there are , are somehow an e8 object of possibility ?	所以 , 你是說 , 我們應該想到宇宙 , 在它的核心中 , 最小的東西 , 是有可能的e8物體 ?
i mean , is there a scale to it , at the smallest scale , or . . . ?	我的意思是 , 在最小的尺度 , 還是......
gl: well , right now the pattern i showed you that corresponds to what we know about elementary particle physics that already corresponds to a very beautiful shape .	格林:現在我給你們看的圖案 , 與我們所知的基本粒子物理學相對應的圖案 , 已經對應到非常美麗的形狀 。
and that's the one that i said we knew for certain .	這就是我說我們知道的 。
and that shape has remarkable similarities and the way it fits into this e8 pattern could be the rest of the picture .	這種形狀有著驚人的相似性 , 它融入e8圖案中的方式可能是其餘的圖片 。
and these patterns of points that i've shown for you actually represent symmetries of this highdimensional object that would be warping and moving and dancing over the space time that we experience .	而這些我為你們展示的點圖案 , 實際上代表了這個高維的物體的對稱性 , 會隨著時間扭曲、移動、跳舞的對稱性 。
and that would be what explains all these elementary particles that we see .	這就是我們所看到的基本粒子 。
ca: but a string theorist , as i understand it , explains electrons in terms of much smaller strings vibrating i know you don't like string theory vibrating inside it .	克:但像我所了解的 , 弦理論學家解釋電子以更小的弦震動 , 我知道你不喜歡弦理論在裡面震動 。
how should we think of an electron in relation to e8 ?	我們該如何看待e8的電子呢 ?
gl: no , it would be one of the symmetries of this e8 shape .	蓋爾:不 , 它會是這個e8形狀的對稱之一 。
so what's happening is , as the shape is moving over spacetime , it's twisting . and the direction it's twisting as it moves is what particle we see . so it would be ca: the size of the e8 shape , how does that relate to the electron ?	所以 , 當這個形狀在時空移動時 , 它會扭轉 。 當它移動時 , 它的方向是扭曲的 。 所以它會是ca:e8形狀的大小 , 它和電子有什麼關係 ?
i kind of feel like i need that for my picture .	我覺得我需要這張照片 。
is it bigger ? is it smaller ?	它比較大嗎 ? 它比較小嗎 ?
gl: well , as far as we know electrons are point particles , so this would be going down to the smallest possible scales .	蓋爾:嗯 , 據我們所知 , 電子是點粒子 , 所以這會降到最小的尺度 。
so the way these things are explained in quantum field theory is , all possibilities are expanding and developing at once .	所以 , 這些東西在量子場理論中解釋的方式是 , 所有的可能性同時擴展和發展 。
and this is why i use the analogy to coral .	這就是為什麼我用比喻為珊瑚 。
and in this way , the way that e8 comes in is it will be as a shape that's attached at each point in spacetime .	如此一來 , e8在時空中形成的形狀 , 將成為連接的形狀 。
and , as i said , the way the shape twists the directional along which way the shape is twisting as it moves over this curved surface is what the elementary particles are , themselves .	正如我所說的 , 形狀會改變方向 , 隨著它在曲線的表面上移動時 , 形狀會扭轉 , 就是基本粒子本身 。
so through quantum field theory , they manifest themselves as points and interact that way .	透過量子場理論 , 他們把自己當成點 , 交互作用 。
i don't know if i'll be able to make this any clearer .	我不知道我能不能讓它更清楚 。
ca: it doesn't really matter .	克:這一點都不重要 。
it's evoking a kind of sense of wonder , and i certainly want to understand more of this .	它引發一種奇妙感 , 我肯定想了解更多 。
but thank you so much for coming . that was absolutely fascinating .	非常謝謝你們來這裡 。 這真是令人著迷 。
the legendary chimpanzee researcher jane goodall talks about tacare and her other community projects , which help people in booming african towns live sidebyside with threatened animals .	傳奇的黑猩猩研究員珍.古德會談到tacare以及其他社區專案 , 它協助非洲非洲人口繁榮 , 和受到威脅的動物住在附近 。
africa , animals , biodiversity , environment , global issues , pollution , primates , science	非洲、動物、生物多樣性、環境、全球性議題、污染、靈長類、科學、科學 。
jane goodall helps humans and animals live together	珍•古德能協助人類和動物一起生活 , 一起生活 。
good afternoon , good evening , whatever .	午安 , 晚安 , 等等 。
we can go , jambo , guten abend , bonsoir , but we can also ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh , ooh .	我們可以去 , 詹姆布 , 古巴德 , 邦諾爾 , 但我們也可以 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 噢 , 喔 , ~ ~
that is the call that chimpanzees make before they go to sleep in the evening .	這就是黑猩猩在晚上睡覺之前所打的電話 。
you hear it going from one side of the valley to the other , from one group of nests to the next .	從山谷的一邊到另一邊 , 從一群巢穴到下一代 。
and i want to pick up with my talk this evening from where zeray left off yesterday .	今天晚上我要來談談的主題是從昨天剩下的地點 。
he was talking about this amazing , threeyearold australopithecine child , selam .	他談到這個驚人的三歲小孩塞萊姆 。
and we've also been hearing about the history , the family tree , of mankind through dna genetic profiling .	我們也聽過歷史 , 家庭樹 , 透過dna基因改造的人類 。
and it was a paleontologist , the late louis leakey , who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees .	這是一位古生物學家 , 最近的路易易斯利華 , 他讓我走上研究黑猩猩的道路 。
and it was pretty extraordinary , way back then .	當時的狀況非常驚人 。
it's kind of commonplace now , but his argument was because he'd been searching for the fossilized remains of early humans in africa .	現在有點常見 , 但他的論點是 , 因為他一直在尋找非洲早期人類的化石 。
and you can tell an awful lot about what those beings looked like from the fossils , from the shape of the muscle attachments , something about the way they lived from the various artifacts found with them .	對於化石的樣子 , 你可以從肌肉附著的形狀來判斷它們的外觀 。 關於它們和它們的不同人造生存的方式 。
but what about how they behaved ? that's what he wanted to know .	但他們的行為呢 ? 這就是他想要知道的 。
and of course , behavior doesn't fossilize .	當然 , 行為並沒有化石 。
he argued and it's now a fairly common theory that if we found behavior patterns similar or the same in our closest living relatives , the great apes , and humans today , then maybe those behaviors were present in the apelike , humanlike ancestor some seven million years ago .	他主張這是個相當普遍的理論如果我們發現相似的行為模式 , 和我們最接近的親戚 , 偉大的猿人 , 現今的人類 , 可能這些行為出現在七百萬年前 , 人類的祖先身上
and therefore , perhaps we had brought those characteristics with us from that ancient , ancient past .	因此 , 也許我們把這些特徵帶到古老、古老的過去 。
well , if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution , you very often find people speculating about how early humans may have behaved , based on the behavior of chimpanzees .	嗯 , 如果你看今天的教科書處理人類演化 , 你經常會發現人們推測人類早期的行為 , 基於黑猩猩的行為 。
they are more like us than any other living creature , and we've heard about that during this ted conference .	它們比任何其他生物更像我們 , 我們在ted大會上聽過這一點 。
so it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzees are so like us , in certain aspects of their behavior .	所以這對我來說 , 對於黑猩猩和我們一樣 , 在某些層面上 , 仍然保持著評論 。
every chimpanzee has his or her own personality .	每隻黑猩猩都有自己的個性 。
of course , i gave them names . they can live to be 60 years or more , although we think most of them probably don't make it to 60 in the wild .	當然 , 我給他們名字 , 他們可以活到六十年或更久 , 雖然我們認為大部分的名字可能不會在野外60歲 。
mr . wurzel . the female has her first baby when she's 11 or 12 .	沃爾茲先生 , 雌性最初的寶寶11或12歲 。
thereafter , she has one baby only every five or six years , a long period of childhood dependency when the child is nursing , sleeping with the mother at night , and riding on her back .	在那裡 , 她的嬰兒每五到六年就有一個嬰兒 , 長期的兒童依賴 , 孩子在晚上和母親睡覺 , 背上騎著 。
and we believe that this long period of childhood is important for chimpanzees , just as it is for us , in relation to learning .	我們相信 , 長久以來的童年時期對黑猩猩很重要 , 就如同對我們一樣 , 與學習有關 。
as the brain becomes ever more complex during evolution in different forms of animals , so we find that learning plays an ever more important role in an individual's life history .	當大腦在不同形式的動物演化過程中變得更複雜時 , 我們發現學習在個人的人生史中扮演著更重要的角色 。
and young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do .	年輕的黑猩猩花很多時間觀察他們的長輩所做的事 。
we know now that they're capable of imitating behaviors that they see .	我們現在知道牠們有能力模仿牠們所看到的行為 。
and we believe that it's in this way that the different toolusing behaviors that have now been seen in all the different chimpanzee populations studied in africa how these are passed from one generation to the next , through observation , imitation and practice , so that we can describe these toolusing behaviors as primitive culture .	我們相信 , 這種方式就是 , 目前在非洲所有不同的黑猩猩族群中所看到的各種不同的工具行為 , 研究這些人是如何從一個世代到下一個世代 , 通過觀察、模仿和實踐 , 來描述這些工具行為為原始文化 。
chimpanzees don't have a spoken language . we've talked about that .	黑猩猩沒有說話的語言 , 我們已經談過了 。
they do have a very rich repertoire of postures and gestures , many of which are similar , or even identical , to ours and formed in the same context . greeting chimpanzees embracing .	牠們的確有很豐富的姿勢和姿勢 , 許多姿勢都相似 , 甚至相同 , 與我們相同 , 在同樣的情境中形成 。 打招呼黑猩猩擁抱 。
they also kiss , hold hands , pat one another on the back .	他們也親吻 , 握手 , 拍手 。
and they swagger and they throw rocks .	它們會變動 , 丟石頭 。
in chimpanzee society , we find many , many examples of compassion , precursors to love and true altruism .	在黑猩猩社會中 , 我們發現許多同情心的例子 , 前提者要愛和真正利他主義 。
unfortunately , they , like us , have a dark side to their nature .	不幸的是 , 像我們一樣 , 他們的天性很暗 。
they're capable of extreme brutality , even a kind of primitive war .	他們有能力極端殘暴 , 甚至是原始的戰爭 。
and these really aggressive behaviors , for the most part , are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group .	這些非常積極的行為 , 大部分時候都被指控 , 對抗鄰近社會群體的個體 。
they are very territorially aggressive .	牠們是非常積極的 。
chimpanzees , i believe , more than any other living creature , have helped us to understand that , after all , there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom .	黑猩猩 , 我相信 , 比起任何其他生物 , 已經協助我們了解到 , 畢竟 , 人類和動物王國之間沒有尖銳的線條 。
it's a very blurry line , and it's getting more blurry all the time as we make even more observations .	這是一個非常模糊的線 , 隨著我們觀察到更多的模糊越來越模糊 。
the study that i began in 1960 is still continuing to this day .	我在1960年開始的研究仍然持續到今天 。
and these chimpanzees , living their complex social lives in the wild , have helped more than anything else to make us realize we are part of , and not separated from , the amazing animals with whom we share the planet .	這些黑猩猩生活在野外複雜的社交生活 , 協助我們了解到 , 我們是其中的一部分 , 而不是孤立的 , 和我們共享這個星球的神奇動物 。
so it's pretty sad to find that chimpanzees , like so many other creatures around the world , are losing their habitats .	所以 , 發現黑猩猩很遺憾 , 就像世界上許多其他生物一樣 , 正在失去牠們的棲息地 。
this is just one photograph from the air , and it shows you the forested highlands of gombe .	這只是空氣中的一張照片而已 , 它顯示了戈米貝的森林高地 。
and it was when i flew over the whole area , about 16 years ago , and realized that outside the park , this forest , which in 1960 had stretched almost unbroken along the eastern shore of lake tanganyika , which is where the tiny , 30squaremile gombe national park lies , that a question came to my mind .	那時 , 我飛越整個區域 , 大約十六年前 , 發現公園外面 , 這片森林 , 在1960年 , 幾乎沒有破壞 , 沿著坦班尼卡湖湖的東岸 , 那裡很小 , 三十平方英雄的國家公園清單 , 這個問題讓我想到了 。
" how can we even try to save these famous chimpanzees , when the people living around the national park are struggling to survive ? "	「 我們要如何拯救這些知名的黑猩猩 , 當住在國家公園附近的人掙扎求生存 ? 」
more people are living there than the land could possibly support .	更多人住在那兒 , 比土地還多 。
the numbers increased by refugees pouring in from burundi and over the lake from congo .	難民的數量增加 , 來自緬甸和來自剛果湖泊的難民數 。
and very poor people they couldn't afford to buy food from elsewhere .	非常貧窮的人無法從其他地方買到食物 。
this led to a program , which we call tacare .	這導致了一個計畫 , 我們稱之為tacare 。
it's a very holistic way of improving the lives of the people living in the villages around the park .	這是一種非常全面的改善生活在公園附近的村民的生活方式 。
it started small with 12 villages . it's now in 24 .	它從十二個村莊開始 。 現在是二十四個 。
there isn't time to go into it , but it's including things like tree nurseries , methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded , almost desertlike land up in these mountains .	沒有時間深入研究 , 但它包含了樹木護士 , 目前最適合耕種的方法 , 幾乎是破壞了 , 幾乎像沙漠般的土地在這些山上 。
ways of controlling , preventing soil erosion .	控制的方式 , 預防土壤侵蝕 。
ways of reclaiming overused farmland , so that within two years they can again be productive .	恢復過度農田的方法 , 這樣在兩年之內 , 就能再有生產力 。
working to help the villagers obtain fresh water from wells .	為了幫助村民從井中取得淡水 。
perhaps build some schoolrooms .	也許建造一些學校房子 。
most important of all , i believe , is working with small groups of women , providing them with opportunities for microcredit loans .	最重要的是 , 我相信 , 與小群體的女性合作 , 提供她們機會給微型貸款 。
and we've got , as is the case around the world , about 95 percent of all loans returned .	如同全世界的案例 , 大約百分之九十五的貸款回來了 。
empowering women , working with education , providing scholarships for girls so they can finish secondary school , in the clear understanding that , all around the world , as women's education improves , family size drops .	讓女性能夠接受教育 , 提供獎學金給女孩 , 這樣她們才能完成中等學校 , 很明顯地 , 全世界的教育都在改善 , 家庭規模也會下降 。
we provide information about family planning and about hiv/aids .	我們提供家庭規劃和愛滋病的資訊 。
and as a result of this program , something's happening for conservation .	由於這個計畫 , 保育正在進行中 。
what's happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages , instead of looking on us as a bunch of white people coming to study a whole bunch of monkeys and by the way , many of the staff are now tanzanian but when we began the tacare program , it was a tanzanian team going into the villages .	保育的情況是 , 住在這24個村落的農夫 , 而不是把我們當成一群白人來研究一大群猴子 , 順便一提 , 許多員工現在是坦尚尼亞 , 但當我們開始計劃時 , 它是一個坦尚尼亞的團隊進入村落 。
it was a tanzanian team talking to the villagers , asking what they were interested in .	那是一個坦尚尼亞的團隊和村民談話 , 問他們感興趣的是什麼 。
were they interested in conservation ? absolutely not .	他們有興趣保育嗎 ? 絕對不是 。
they were interested in health ; they were interested in education .	他們對健康有興趣 , 他們對教育有興趣 。
and as time went on , and as their situation began to improve , they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation .	隨著時間過去 , 當他們的情況開始改善 , 他們開始更加了解保育的需求 。
they began to understand that as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees , so you've got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides .	他們開始了解山丘的上層是樹木被砍伐的 , 所以土壤侵蝕和泥土 。
today , we are developing what we call the greater gombe ecosystem .	現今 , 我們正在發展我們所謂的更大的gombe生態系統 。
this is an area way outside the national park , stretching out into all these very degraded lands .	這個區域在國家公園外延伸出去 , 延伸到這些非常惡劣的土地上 。
and as these villages have a better standard of life , they are actually agreeing to put between 10 percent and 20 percent of their land in the highlands aside , so that once again , as the trees grow back , the chimpanzees will have leafy corridors through which they can travel to interact as they must for genetic viability with other remnant groups outside the national park .	隨著這些村落有更好的生活標準 , 他們其實同意把百分之十到二十的土地放到高地之外 , 所以 , 隨著樹木長回來 , 黑猩猩就會有葉廊穿過 , 讓它們可以在國家公園外的其他遺傳團體進行基因改善 。
so tacare is a success .	所以tacare是成功的 。
we're replicating it in other parts of africa , around other wilderness areas which are faced with extreme population pressure .	我們把它複製在非洲的其他地方 , 在其他極端人口壓力的野外地區 。
the problems in africa , however , as we've been discussing for the whole of these first couple of days of ted , are major problems .	然而 , 在非洲 , 我們一直在討論ted的前幾天問題 , 都是主要的問題 。
there is a great deal of poverty .	有很大的貧窮 。
and when you get large numbers of people living in land that is not that fertile , particularly when you cut down trees , and you leave the soil open to the wind for erosion , as desperate populations cut down more and more trees , so that they can try and grow food for themselves and their families , what's going to happen ? something's got to give .	當你有大量的居民住在陸地 , 不是肥沃 , 特別是當你砍樹時 , 土壤就會開放給被侵蝕的土地 , 當絕望的人口減少更多的樹木 , 這樣他們就能試著為自己和家人種食物 , 有什麼事情會發生 。
and the other problems in not only africa , but the rest of the developing world and , indeed , everywhere what are we doing to our planet ?	另外一個問題不僅僅是非洲 , 還有其他開發中國家 , 的確 , 我們對地球所做的一切都一樣 。
you know , the famous scientist , e . o . wilson said that if every person on this planet attains the standard of living of the average european or american , we need three new planets .	你知道 , 著名的科學家e.o.wilson說 , 如果地球上每個人生活的標準是歐洲人或美國人 , 我們需要三個新的行星 。
today , they are saying four . but we don't have them . we've got one .	現今 , 他們說的是四個 。 但我們沒有他們 。 我們有一個 。
and what's happened ? i mean , the question here is , here we are , arguably the most intelligent being that's ever walked planet earth , with this extraordinary brain , capable of the kind of technology that is so well illustrated by these ted conferences , and yet we're destroying the only home we have .	到底發生了什麼事 ? 我的意思是 , 問題是 , 我們在這裡 , 說是最聰明的生物 , 可以走過地球 , 帶著這種非凡的大腦 , 可以用這些ted大會來說明 , 這樣科技才會被我們破壞 。
the indigenous people around the world , before they made a major decision , used to sit around and ask themselves , " how does this decision affect our people seven generations ahead ? "	世界各地的原住民 , 在他們做出重大的決定之前 , 常常坐在旁邊問自己: 「 這決定如何影響我們七個世代 ? 」
today , major decisions and i'm not particularly talking about africa here , but the developed world major decisions involving millions of dollars , and millions of people , are often based on , " how will this affect the next shareholders' meeting ? "	今天 , 主要的決策 , 我並不特別談論非洲 , 但已開發國家的主要決策 , 涉及數百萬美金 , 數百萬人 , 通常是基於 「 這會如何影響下一股東的會議 ? 」
and these decisions affect africa .	這些決定影響了非洲 。
as i began traveling around africa talking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests , i realized more and more how so many of africa's problems could be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation .	當我開始在非洲各地旅行 , 談到黑猩猩所面臨的問題 , 以及它們消失的森林 , 我越來越了解到 , 許多非洲的問題可以在過去殖民地爆發的大門上 。
so i began traveling outside africa , talking in europe , talking in the united states , going to asia .	所以我開始在非洲外面旅行 , 在歐洲談話 , 在美國談話 , 去亞洲 。
and everywhere there were these terrible problems .	到處都有這些可怕的問題 。
and you know the kind i'm talking about . i'm talking about pollution .	你知道我在說的那種 , 我在說的是污染 。
the air that we breathe that often poisons us .	我們呼吸的空氣經常毒害我們 。
the earth is poisoning our foods .	地球正在毒害我們的食物 。
the water water is perhaps one of the most crucial issues that we're going to face in this century and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural , industrial and household chemicals that still are being sprayed around the world , seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience .	水可能是我們本世紀所面臨的最關鍵議題之一 , 到處都是來自農業、工業和家庭用的化學物質 , 仍然在世界各地被噴殺 , 似乎無法從過去的經驗中獲利 。
the mangroves are being cut down ; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse .	紅樹林被砍伐 ; 像海嘯這樣的效應變得更糟 。
we've talked about the soil erosion .	我們談過土壤侵蝕 。
we have the reckless burning of fossil fuels along with other greenhouse gasses , so called , leading to climate change .	我們有無能為力的化石燃料和其他溫室氣體燃燒 , 因此 , 導致氣候變遷 。
finally , all around the world , people have begun to believe that there is something going on very wrong with our climate .	最後 , 世界各地 , 人們開始相信氣候有問題 。
all around the world climates are mixed up .	全世界的氣候都混合在一起 。
and it's the poor people who are affected worse .	貧窮的人會受到更嚴重的影響 。
it's africa that already is affected .	非洲已經受到影響了 。
in many parts of subsaharan africa , the droughts are so much worse .	在撒哈拉以南非洲的許多地區 , 乾旱越來越嚴重 。
and when the rain does come , it so often leads to flooding and added distress , and the cycle of poverty and hunger and disease .	當下雨來臨時 , 通常會導致洪水、加上苦惱 , 以及貧窮、飢餓和疾病的循環 。
and the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support , who are too poor to buy food , who can't move away because the whole land is degraded .	住在土地無法支援的地區 , 人口數量太貧窮 , 無法購買食物 , 因為整個土地都被降解了 。
and so you get desertification creeping , creeping , creeping as the last of the trees are cut down .	所以你會得到沙漠化 , 哭泣 , 哭泣 , 彷彿最後一棵樹被砍伐了 。
and this kind of thing is not just in africa . it's all over the world .	這種事不僅僅是在非洲 , 世界各地 。
so it wasn't surprising to me that as i was traveling around the world i met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope .	所以 , 我並不意外 , 當我在世界各地旅行時 , 我遇到許多似乎失去希望的年輕人 。
we seem to have lost wisdom , the wisdom of the indigenous people .	我們似乎失去了智慧 , 原住民的智慧 。
i asked a question . " why ? "	我問了一個問題 。 為什麼 ?
well , do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain , the kind of brain that the ted technologies exemplify , and the human heart ? talking about it in the nonscientific term , in terms of love and compassion . is there some disconnect ?	嗯 , 你認為這個非凡聰明的大腦之間有某種差異嗎 ? ted科技的表現和人的心 ? 用非科學的角度來說 , 愛和同理心 , 有沒有什麼差別 ?
and these young people , when i talk to them , basically they were either depressed or apathetic , or bitter and angry . and they said more or less the same thing , " we feel this way because we feel you've compromised our future and there's nothing we can do about it . "	而這些年輕人 , 當我和他們談話時 , 基本上他們不是憂鬱或冷漠 , 或痛苦 , 或生氣 。 他們說了同樣的話: 「 我們覺得你已經妥協了我們的未來 , 沒有我們能做的事 。 」
we have compromised their future .	我們已經妥協了他們的未來 。
i've got three little grandchildren , and every time i look at them and i think how we've harmed this beautiful planet since i was their age , i feel this desperation .	我有三個小孫子 , 每當我看著他們 , 我想我們從小就傷害了這個美麗的星球 , 我感受到這種絕望 。
and that led to this program we call roots and shoots , which began right here in tanzania and has now spread to 97 countries around the world .	那就導致了這個計畫我們稱之為根與芽 , 由於坦尚尼亞開始 , 現在已散播到全世界的97個國家 。
it's symbolic . roots make a firm foundation .	它是象徵性的 。 根是建立公司基金會 。
shoots seem tiny ; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall .	射擊似乎很小 , 能抵達太陽 , 能穿過磚牆 。
see the brick wall as all these problems we've inflicted on the planet , environmental and social . it's a message of hope .	把磚牆當作我們在地球上所遇到的問題 , 環境和社會的問題 。 這是希望的訊息 。
hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things .	全世界成千上萬的年輕人可以突破 , 讓這個更美好的世界 , 讓所有生物都能活得更好 。
the most important message of roots and shoots: every single one of us makes a difference , every single day .	根與芽的最重要訊息:我們每一個人都能改變 , 每天都能改變 。
we have a choice . every one of us in this room , we have a choice as to what kind of difference we want to make .	我們有選擇 。 在座的每一個人 , 我們都有選擇要做出什麼樣的改變 。
the very poor have no choice . it's up to us to change things so that the poor have choice as well .	非常貧窮的人沒有選擇 。 由我們決定改變事情 , 讓窮人也有選擇 。
the roots and shoots groups all choose three projects .	根和芽團體都選擇了三個計畫 。
it depends on how old they are , and which country , whether they're in a city or rural , as to what kinds of projects .	這取決於他們有多老 , 哪個國家 , 不管他們住在城市或鄉下 , 什麼類型的專案 。
but basically , we have programs now from preschool right through university , with more and more adults starting their own roots and shoots groups .	但基本上 , 我們有從學前兒童到大學的專案 , 越來越多的成人開始自己的根與芽 。
and every group chooses , between them , three different kinds of project to make this a better world , recognizing that all these different problems are interconnected and impinge on each other .	每個團體都選擇了三種不同的專案 , 讓這個更美好的世界變得更好 , 認知到所有這些不同的問題都互相連結並實現 。
so one of their projects will be to help their own human community .	其中一項計畫是幫助他們自己的人類社區 。
and then , if they're able , they may raise money to help communities in other parts of the world .	如果他們能的話 , 他們就能募到錢來協助世界其他地方的社區 。
one of their projects will be to help animals not just wildlife , domestic animals as well .	其中一項計畫是要幫助動物 , 不只是野生動物 , 家族動物 。
and one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share .	其中一項計畫是要協助我們所有人共享的環境 。
and woven throughout all of this is a message of learning to live in peace and harmony within ourselves , in our families , in our communities , between nations , between cultures , between religions and between us and the natural world .	所有這一切都是關於學習和平和和諧的訊息 , 在我們自己的家庭、我們的社區、文化、宗教、我們之間、和自然界之間的連結 。
we need the natural world . we cannot go on destroying it at the rate we are .	我們需要自然世界 。 我們不能以我們現在的速度來摧毀它 。
we not do have more than this one planet .	我們沒有超過這個星球 。
just picking one or two of the projects right here in africa that the roots and shoots groups are doing , one or two projects only in tanzania , in uganda , kenya , south africa , congobrazzaville , sierra leone , cameroon and other groups . and as i say , it's in 97 countries around the world .	在非洲 , 選出一兩項專案 , 包括根與槍擊團體 , 一到兩項專案 , 只在坦尚尼亞、肯亞、南非、剛果廣場、獅子山共和國、喀麥隆 , 以及其他團體 。 如我所說 , 它在世界上97個國家 。
of course , they're planting trees . they're growing organic vegetables .	當然 , 他們種植樹木 , 種植有機蔬菜 。
they're working in the refugee camps , with chickens and selling the eggs for a little amount of money , or just using them to feed their families , and feeling a sense of pride and empowerment , because they're no longer helpless and depending on others with their vegetables and their chickens .	他們在難民營工作 , 有雞肉賣卵 , 或只用它們餵飽他們的家庭 , 感受到驕傲和賦權 , 因為他們不再無助 , 依賴他們的蔬菜和雞 。
it's being used in uganda to give some psychological help to exchild soldiers .	它被用在烏干達 , 給予士兵一些心理協助 。
doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves .	像這樣做 , 會讓他們脫離自己 。
once again , they're useful members of society .	再一次 , 他們是社會中有用的成員 。
we have this program in prisons as well .	我們在監獄也有這個計畫 。
so , there's no time for more roots and shoots now .	所以 , 現在沒有更多的根和芽時間了 。
but oh , they're also working on hiv/aids .	但 , 喔 , 他們也致力於愛滋病/愛滋病 。
that's a very important component of roots and shoots , with older kids talking to younger ones .	這是根與芽的重要元素 , 與較年長的孩子對談 ,
and unwanted pregnancies and things like that , which young people listen to better from other youth , rather than adults .	未曾預期的懷孕之類的 , 年輕人會傾聽別人的心聲 , 而非成人 。
hope . that's the question i get asked as i'm going around the world: " jane , you've seen so many terrible things , you've seen your chimpanzees decrease in number from about one million , at the turn of the century , to no more than 150 , 000 now , and the same with so many other animals .	希望 。 這是我在世界各地被問的問題: 「 珍 , 你見過這麼多可怕的事情 , 你見過你的黑猩猩數量從本世紀的一百萬 , 降低到現在已經超過十五萬人了 , 和許多其他動物一樣 。
forests disappearing , deserts where once there was forest .	森林消失 , 曾經有森林的沙漠 。
do you really have hope ? " well , yes .	你真的有希望嗎 ? 」 嗯 , 是的 。
you can't come to a conference like ted and not have hope , can you ?	你不能參加像ted這樣的會議 , 沒有希望 , 對吧 ?
and of course , there's hope . one is this amazing human brain .	當然 , 還有希望 。 其中一個是這個神奇的人類大腦 。
and i mean , think of the technologies .	我的意思是 , 想想科技 。
and i've just been so thrilled , finally , to come to people talking about compost latrines .	我一直很興奮 , 終於 , 能來到人們談論堆肥廁所 。
it's one of my hobbyhorses .	這是我的嗜好之一 。
we just flush all this water down the lavatory , it's terrible .	我們把所有的水沖到電梯裡 , 很糟糕 。
and then talking about renewable energy desperately important .	接著談到可再生能源 , 迫切重要 。
do we care about the planet for our children ?	我們在乎我們的孩子這個星球嗎 ?
how many of us have children or grandchildren , nieces , nephews ?	有多少人有小孩或孫子、姪子、姪子 ?
do we care about their future ?	我們關心他們的未來嗎 ?
and if we care about their future , we , as the elite around the world , we can do something about it . we can make choices as to how we live each day .	如果我們關心他們的未來 , 我們身為全世界菁英的菁英 , 我們可以做點什麼 。 我們可以做出選擇 , 來做我們每天的生活 。
what we buy . what we wear .	我們買什麼 , 我們穿什麼 。
and choose to make these choices with the question , how will this affect the environment around me ?	選擇用這個問題來做這些選擇 , 這會如何影響我周遭的環境 ?
how will it affect the life of my child when he or she grows up ?	當他或她長大後 , 它會如何影響我的孩子 ?
or my grandchild , or whatever it is .	或者是我的孫子 , 或其它的東西 。
so the human brain , coupled with the human heart , and we join hands around the world .	所以 , 人類的大腦 , 和人類的心情結合 , 我們加入世界各地 。
and that's what ted is helping so well with , and google who help us , and esri are helping us with mapping in gombe national park .	這就是ted的幫助 , google幫助我們 , esri協助我們 , 協助我們繪製gombe國家公園的地圖 。
all of these technologies we can use .	所有我們能使用的科技 。
now let's link them , and it's beginning to happen , isn't it ?	現在讓我們把它們連結起來 , 開始了 , 不是嗎 ?
you've heard about it this afternoon . it's beginning to happen .	你今天下午已經聽說過 , 已經開始發生了 。
this change , this change . to see change that we must have if we care about the future .	這種改變 , 這種改變 。 若我們關心未來 , 我們必須看到改變 。
and the next reason for hope nature is amazingly resilient .	希望大自然的下一個理由是令人驚訝的韌性 。
you can take an area that's absolutely destroyed , with time and perhaps some help it can regenerate .	你可以把一個絕對被摧毀的區域 , 用時間 , 或一些幫助來恢復 。
and an example is the tacare program .	一個例子是醫療保健計畫 。
i told you , where a seemingly dead tree stump if you stop hacking them for firewood , which you don't need to because you have wood lots , then in five years you can have a 30foot tree .	我告訴你們 , 看似已死的樹木 , 如果你停止砍伐它們 , 不用砍伐它們 , 因為你有很多木頭 , 然後在五年內 , 你可以有三十英呎的樹木 。
and animals , almost on the brink of extinction , can be given a second chance . that's my next book .	而動物 , 幾乎在絕種的邊緣 , 可以得到第二次機會 。 這是我的下一本書 。
it's inspiring . and it brings me to my last category of hope , and we've heard about this so much in the last two days: this indomitable human spirit . this determination of people , the resilience of the human spirit , so that people who you would think would be battered by poverty , or disease , or whatever , can pull themselves up out of it , sometimes with a helping hand , and take their part in society , and take their part in changing the world .	它很鼓舞人心 。 它帶我到我最後的希望類別 , 在過去的兩天 , 我們都聽過這麼多的希望:這種不屈不撓的人類精神 。 這種決心 , 人類精神的韌性 , 這樣你認為會被貧窮或疾病所困擾 , 或其他的人們 , 可以把自己從中拉出來 , 有時 , 用協助 , 把他們的部分帶到社會中 , 讓他們改變世界 。
and just to think of one or two people out of africa who are just really inspiring .	想想看 , 一到兩位非洲的人 , 他們真的很鼓舞人心 。
we could make a very long list , but obviously nelson mandela , emerging from 17 years of hard physical labor , 23 years of imprisonment , with this amazing ability to forgive , so that he could lead his nation out the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath .	我們可以列出很長的清單 , 但很顯然 , 曼德拉的名單來自十七年的硬體勞工 , 23年的監獄 , 有了很棒的寬恕 , 讓他能帶領他的國家離開種族隔離的邪惡政權 , 沒有血浴 。
ken sarowiwa , in nigeria , who took on the giant oil companies , and although people around the world tried their best , was executed .	奈及利亞的薩朗瓦 , 帶著巨型的石油公司 , 儘管全世界的人都盡力 , 被處決了 。
people like this are so inspirational .	像這樣的人是如此的靈感 。
people like this are the role models we need for young africans .	像這樣的人是我們非洲年輕人所需要的榜樣 。
and we need some environmental role models as well , and i've been hearing some of them today .	我們也需要一些環保的榜樣 , 我今天也聽到了其中一些 。
so i'm really grateful for this opportunity to share this message again , with everyone at ted .	所以我很感激這個機會 , 再次與ted的每個人分享這個訊息 。
and i hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things , especially the roots and shoots program .	我希望我們當中有些人能聚集起來討論其中的一些事情 , 特別是根與芽計劃 。
and just a last word on that the young woman who's running this entire conference center , i met her today .	最後一個字是那個跑完這整個會議中心的年輕女子 , 我今天見到她 。
she came up so excited , with her certificate . she was [in] roots and shoots .	她很興奮 , 得到她的證書 。 她是根和槍 。
she was in the leadership in dar es salaam .	她在達斯薩拉姆的領導階層 。
she said it's helped her to do what she's doing .	她說 , 做她正在做的事是有幫助的 。
and it was very , very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people , when they are empowered , given the opportunity to take action , to make the world a better place , truly are our hope for tomorrow .	對我來說 , 我非常興奮地見到她 , 看到一個例子 , 說明了年輕人如何被賦權力的例子 , 因為他們有機會採取行動 , 讓世界變得更美好 , 真正是我們明天的希望 。
artist dianna cohen shares some tough truths about plastic pollution in the ocean and in our lives and some thoughts on how to free ourselves from the plastic gyre .	藝術家黛安娜•柯恩分享了一些關於海洋中的塑膠污染的艱難事實 , 在我們的生命中 , 以及一些想法 , 關於如何讓自己脫離塑膠圈 。
consumerism , global issues , green , mission blue , oceans , plastic	消費主義、全球議題、綠色、使命藍色、海洋、塑膠、塑膠 。
dianna cohen: tough truths about plastic pollution	黛安娜•柯恩:關於塑膠污染的困難真相 。
i'm a visual artist , and i'm also one of the cofounders of the plastic pollution coalition .	我是視覺藝術家 , 我也是塑膠污染聯盟的共同創辦人之一 。
i've been working with plastic bags , which i cut up and sew back together as my primary material for my artwork for the last 20 years .	我一直在研究塑膠袋 , 我把塑膠袋剪下來 , 縫合起來 , 做為我過去二十年來的藝術作品 。
i turn them into two and threedimensional pieces and sculptures and installations .	我把它們變成兩片、三度空間的碎片、雕塑和裝置 。
upon working with the plastic , after about the first eight years , some of my work started to fissure and break down into smaller little bits of plastic .	和塑膠合作了大約八年後 , 我的一些作品開始有裂縫 , 分解成更小的塑膠 。
and i thought , " great .	我心想: 「 太棒了 。
it's ephemeral just like us . "	它就像我們一樣 。 」
upon educating myself a little further about plastics , i actually realized this was a bad thing .	在我更深入地研究塑膠 , 我發現這是一件壞事 。
it's a bad thing that plastic breaks down into smaller little bits , because it's always still plastic .	塑膠會分解成更小的部分 , 因為它永遠都是塑膠 。
and what we're finding is that a lot of it is in the marine environment .	我們發現 , 很多都是在海洋環境中 。
i then , in the last few years , learned about the pacific garbage patch and the gyre .	接著 , 在過去幾年 , 我學到太平洋垃圾堆和蓋瑞 。
and my initial reaction and i think this is a lot of people's first reaction to learning about it is , " oh my god !	我最初的反應是 , 很多人的第一個反應是: 「 天啊 !
we've got to go out there and clean this thing up . "	我們必須去清理這個東西 。 」
so i actually developed a proposal to go out with a cargo ship and two decommissioned fishing trawlers , a crane , a chipping machine and a coldmolding machine .	所以我開發了一個提案 , 和一艘貨船出去 , 和兩艘退休的捕魚拖網 , 一台拖車 , 一台拖車 , 一台冰冷的機器 。
and my intention was to go out to the gyre , raise awareness about this issue and begin to pick up the plastic , chip it into little bits and cold mold it into bricks that could potentially be used as building materials in underdeveloped communities .	我的意圖是走到蓋爾 , 提高對這個問題的認知 , 開始把塑膠 , 切成碎片 , 將它冷成一些磚塊 , 可以被用來當作已開發的社區建造材料 。
i began talking with people who actually had been out to the gyre and were studying the plastic problem in the marine environment and upon doing so , i realized actually that cleaning it up would be a very small drop in the bucket relative to how much is being generated every day around the world , and that actually i needed to back up and look at the bigger picture .	我開始和那些真的去過蓋爾的人們談話 , 研究海洋環境中的塑膠問題 , 然後在做這件事時 , 我意識到 , 清理它會是非常小的一滴 , 和全世界每天所產生的塑膠相比 , 我需要回頭看更大的照片 。
and the bigger picture is: we need to find a way to turn off the faucet .	更大的圖片是:我們需要找到一個方法來關掉公平面 。
we need to cut the spigot of singleuse and disposable plastics , which are entering the marine environment every day on a global scale .	我們需要切斷單一、可分配的塑膠 , 每天進入海洋環境 , 以全球性的規模 。
so in looking at that , i also realized that i was really angry .	所以 , 看著這一點 , 我也發現我真的很生氣 。
i wasn't just concerned about plastic that you're trying to imagine out in the middle of the pacific ocean of which i have learned there are now 11 gyres , potentially , of plastic in five major oceans in the world .	我不只關心塑膠 , 你在太平洋的正中部 , 我還知道現在有11個健身 , 可能是世界上五大海洋的塑膠 。
it's not just that gyre of plastic that i'm concerned about it's the gyre of plastic in the supermarket .	不只是我所關心的塑膠垃圾 , 而是超市的塑膠垃圾蓋 。
i'd go to the supermarket and all of my food is packaged in plastic .	我會去超市 , 我所有的食物都是塑膠包裝的 。
all of my beverages are packaged in plastic , even at the health food market .	我所有的飲料都是塑膠的包裝 , 甚至是健康食品市場 。
i'm also concerned about the plastic in the refrigerator , and i'm concerned about the plastic and the toxins that leach from plastic into us and into our bodies .	我也擔心冰箱裡的塑膠 , 我擔心塑膠和塑膠從塑膠到我們身上的毒素 。
so i came together with a group of other people who were all looking at this issue , and we created the plastic pollution coalition .	所以我和一群人一起研究這個問題 , 我們創造了塑膠污染聯盟 。
we have many initiatives that we're working on , but some of them are very basic .	我們有許多我們正在努力的倡議 , 但有些是非常基本的 。
one is: if 80 to 90 percent of what we're finding in the ocean of the marine debris that we're finding in the ocean is plastic , then why don't we call it what it is .	第一:如果我們在海洋中發現的80% ~ 90%就是我們在海洋中發現的塑膠 , 那麼我們為什麼不把它稱為它 。
recycling everybody kind of ends their books about being sustainable and greening with the idea of recycling .	回收每個人的書 , 都是為了永續發展和綠化 , 用回收的想法來回收 。
you put something in a bin and you don't have to think about it again .	你把東西放在一個垃圾桶裡 , 你不用再想一想 。
what is the reality of that ?	這是什麼 ?
in the united states , less than seven percent of our plastics are recycled .	在美國 , 只有不到7%的塑膠被回收 。
and if you really look into it , particularly when it comes to plastic bottles , most of it is only downcycled , or incinerated , or shipped to china .	如果你仔細觀察 , 尤其是當談到塑膠瓶 , 大部分只會被降低 , 或是被運到中國 。
it is downcycled and turned into lesser things , while a glass bottle can be a glass bottle again or can be used again a plastic bottle can never be a plastic bottle again .	它被降級 , 轉換成較少的東西 , 而玻璃瓶可以再次變成玻璃瓶 , 或者可以再次使用 , 塑膠瓶也無法再次變成塑膠瓶 。
so this is a big issue for us .	所以這對我們來說是個大問題 。
another thing that we're looking at and asking people to think about is we've added a fourth r onto the front of the " reduce , reuse , recycle , " three r's , and that is refuse .	我們正在看另一件事 , 請大家思考 , 我們在 「 縮減、重覆使用、回收 」 前面加上第四圈 , 三圈 , 那就拒絕了 。
whenever possible , refuse singleuse and disposable plastics .	每當可能時 , 都拒絕使用單一和可用的塑膠 。
alternatives exist ; some of them are very oldschool .	替代方案存在 ; 有些則是很老的學齡 。
i myself am now collecting these cool pyrex containers and using those instead of glad and tupperware containers to store food in .	我現在正在收集這些很酷的pyrex容器 , 用這些 , 而不是glad和upperware的容器來儲存食物 。
and i know that i am doing a service to myself and my family .	我知道我對自己和我的家人做了一個服務 。
it's very easy to pick up a stainlesssteel bottle or a glass bottle , if you're traveling and you've forgotten to bring your stainlesssteel bottle and fill that up with water or filtered water , versus purchasing plastic bottled water .	很容易拿起一瓶不穩定的瓶子 , 或玻璃瓶 , 如果你去旅行 , 你忘了帶你的不確定的瓶子填滿水或過濾水 , 而不是購買塑膠瓶 。
i guess what i want to say to everybody here and i know that you guys know a lot about this issue is that this is a huge problem in the oceans , but this is a problem that we've created as consumers and we can solve .	我想我想要向大家說的是我知道你們對這個議題的了解是 , 這在海洋裡是個很大的問題 , 但這是我們身為消費者 , 我們能解決的一個問題 。
we can solve this by raising awareness of the issue and teaching people to choose alternatives .	我們能解決這個問題 , 藉由提升大家的意識 , 並教導人們選擇替代方案 。
so whenever possible , to choose alternatives to singleuse plastics .	所以 , 盡可能地選擇單一塑膠的替代方案 。
we can cut the stem tide the stem of this into our oceans and in doing so , save our oceans , save our planet , save ourselves .	我們可以把這些幹細胞切成海洋 , 這樣 , 拯救我們的海洋 , 拯救我們的地球 , 拯救我們自己 。
this demo from pattie maes' lab at mit , spearheaded by pranav mistry was the buzz of ted . it's a wearable device with a projector that paves the way for profound interaction with our environment . imagine " minority report " and then some .	這位來自麻省理工學院maes實驗室的示範 , 由帕拉福利所引發的 , 是ted的buzz 。 它是一個可穿戴式裝置 , 用來和環境深遠互動的專案 。 想像一下 , 「 少數族裔報告 」 , 然後有一些 。
demo , design , interface design , technology	demo , 設計 , 介面設計 , 科技 , 科技 。
pattie maes and pranav mistry demo sixthsense	派屈瑪斯和帕拉夫•密切利 , 第十六感 。
i've been intrigued by this question of whether we could evolve or develop a sixth sense a sense that would give us seamless access and easy access to metainformation or information that may exist somewhere that may be relevant to help us make the right decision about whatever it is that we're coming across .	我對這個問題很感興趣 , 關於我們能否演化或發展出第六種感官的感官 , 使我們能取得無縫且容易取得改造或存在的資訊 , 可能在某些地方 , 協助我們做出正確的決定 , 決定我們要面對的是什麼 。
and some of you may argue , well , don't today's cell phones do that already ?	在座有些人可能認為 , 現今的手機不是已經做到的嗎 ?
but i would say no .	但我會說 , 不 。
when you meet someone here at ted and this is the top networking place , of course , of the year you don't shake somebody's hand and then say , " can you hold on for a moment while i take out my phone and google you ? "	當你在ted認識某個人時 , 當然 , 這是最頂尖的網路網絡 , 在那一年你不會握某人的手 , 然後說: 「 你能拿出我的手機和google嗎 ? 」
or when you go to the supermarket and you're standing there in that huge aisle of different types of toilet papers , you don't take out your cell phone , and open a browser , and go to a website to try to decide which of these different toilet papers is the most ecologically responsible purchase to make .	或當你去超市 , 站在那裏巨大的廁所論文 , 你不會拿出你的手機 , 打開瀏覽器 , 到一個網站 , 試著決定這些不同的廁所論文中哪些是最環保的購物 。
so we don't really have easy access to all this relevant information that can just help us make optimal decisions about what to do next and what actions to take .	所以我們沒有很容易取得所有相關的資訊 , 來協助我們做出最佳的決策 , 來做下一步該做的事 , 以及要採取什麼行動 。
and so my research group at the media lab has been developing a series of inventions to give us access to this information in a sort of easy way , without requiring that the user changes any of their behavior .	所以我在媒體實驗室的研究小組正在開發一系列的發明 , 讓我們能以簡單的方式取得這些資訊 , 不需要使用者改變他們的行為 。
and i'm here to unveil our latest effort , and most successful effort so far , which is still very much a work in process .	我在這裡要揭開我們最新的努力 , 目前為止 , 最成功的努力仍然是過程中的工作 。
i'm actually wearing the device right now and we've sort of cobbled it together with components that are off the shelf and that , by the way , only cost 350 dollars at this point in time .	我現在正穿著這個裝置 , 把它和擺脫架上的零件混合在一起 , 順便說一下 , 當時只有350美金 。
i'm wearing a camera , just a simple webcam , a portable , batterypowered projection system with a little mirror .	我戴著攝影機 , 只是一個簡單的網路攝影機 , 一個可攜帶、電池充電的投影系統 , 裡面有一面鏡子 。
these components communicate to my cell phone in my pocket which acts as the communication and computation device .	這些元件對我口袋裡的手機進行溝通 , 作為溝通和計算裝置 。
and in the video here we see my student pranav mistry , who's really the genius who's been implementing and designing this whole system .	在這支影片中 , 我們看到我的學生帕納•密里 , 他真的是執行和設計這整個系統的天才 。
and we see how this system lets him walk up to any surface and start using his hands to interact with the information that is projected in front of him .	我們看到這個系統讓他走到任何表面 , 用他的手和投影在他面前的資訊互動 。
the system tracks the four significant fingers .	這個系統追蹤了四隻重要的手指 。
in this case , he's wearing simple marker caps that you may recognize .	在這個例子中 , 他戴著簡單的標記帽子 , 可以辨識出來 。
but if you want a more stylish version you could also paint your nails in different colors .	但如果你想要比較像風格的版本 , 你也可以用不同顏色畫出你的指甲 。
and the camera basically tracks these four fingers and recognizes any gestures that he's making so he can just go to , for example , a map of long beach , zoom in and out , etc .	攝影機基本上追蹤了這四隻手指 , 並辨識出他所做的任何動作 , 例如 , 他可以去看長海的地圖 , 放大 , 放大等等 。
the system also recognizes iconic gestures such as the " take a picture " gesture , and then takes a picture of whatever is in front of you .	系統也辨識出象徵性的手勢 , 例如 「 拍照 」 手勢 , 接著拍一張你面前的照片 。
and when he then walks back to the media lab , he can just go up to any wall and project all the pictures that he's taken , sort through them and organize them , and resize them , etc . , again using all natural gestures .	當他走回媒體實驗室時 , 他可以到任何牆上 , 投影他所拍攝的所有照片 , 透過照片 , 整理它們 , 再次重塑它們 , 再次使用所有的自然手勢 。
so , some of you most likely were here two years ago and saw the demo by jeff han or some of you may think , " well , doesn't this look like the microsoft surface table ? "	所以 , 有些人可能兩年前來到這裡 , 看到jeffhan的示威 , 有些人可能會想: 「 這不像微軟表面的表面嗎 ? 」
and yes , you also interact using natural gestures , both hands , etc .	沒錯 , 你也用天然手勢來互動 , 雙手等等 。
but the difference here is that you can use any surface , you can walk to up to any surface , including your hand if nothing else is available and interact with this projected data .	但這裡的差別是 , 你可以用任何表面 , 你可以走到任何表面 , 包括你的手 , 如果沒有其他東西可以使用 , 和這個投影資料互動 。
the device is completely portable , and can be . . .	這個裝置是完全可攜式的 , 也可以是......
so one important difference is that it's totally mobile .	其中一個很重要的差異是它完全是移動的 。
another even more important difference is that in mass production this would not cost more tomorrow than today's cell phones and would actually not sort of be a bigger packaging could look a lot more stylish than this version that i'm wearing around my neck .	另一個更重要的差別在於 , 在大量生產上 , 這不會比現今的手機貴得多 , 且不會比我在脖子上戴的更大的包裝看起來更像風格 。
but other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as tom cruise in " minority report , " the reason why we're really excited about this device is that it really can act as one of these sixthsense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you .	但 , 除了讓你們之外 , 在《少數報告》中 , 湯姆•克魯斯 , 我們之所以對這個裝置感到很興奮的原因 , 是因為它真的可以作為這第六個感知裝置之一 , 讓你知道你面前的任何東西 。
so we see pranav here going into the supermarket and he's shopping for some paper towels .	這裡我們看到pranav進入超市 , 他正在購買一些紙巾 。
and , as he picks up a product the system can recognize the product that he's picking up , using either image recognition or marker technology , and give him the green light or an orange light .	當他拿起產品時 , 系統可以辨識出他拿到的產品 , 使用影像辨識或標記技術 , 給他綠光或橘色光 。
he can ask for additional information .	他可以要求額外的資訊 。
so this particular choice here is a particularly good choice , given his personal criteria .	所以 , 這個特定的選擇 , 尤其是他個人的標準 。
some of you may want the toilet paper with the most bleach in it rather than the most ecologicallyresponsible choice .	在座有些人可能想要有最毒的衛生紙 , 而不是最環保的選擇 。
if he picks up a book in the bookstore , he can get an amazon rating it gets projected right on the cover of the book .	如果他在書店裡拿起一本書 , 他就能拿到亞馬遜的評分 , 書的封面 。
this is juan's book , our previous speaker , which gets a great rating , by the way , at amazon .	這是朱安的書 , 我們之前的講者 , 順便說一下 , 亞馬遜的評分很棒 。
and so , pranav turns the page of the book and can then see additional information about the book reader comments , maybe sort of information by his favorite critic , etc .	所以 , 帕拉夫把書的頁面翻過來 , 還能看到書讀者留言的額外資訊 , 可能有點像是他最愛的批評 , 等等 。
if he turns to a particular page he finds an annotation by maybe an expert of a friend of ours that gives him a little bit of additional information about whatever is on that particular page .	如果他轉到某個特定的頁面 , 他會發現一個朋友的註冊 , 給他一點額外的資訊 , 關於那個頁面上的任何東西 。
reading the newspaper it never has to be outdated .	閱讀報紙 , 它永遠不會過時 。
you can get video annotations of the event that you're reading about you can get the latest sports scores etc .	你可以取得你閱讀的事件的影片註冊 , 你可以得到最新的運動分數等等 。
this is a more controversial one .	這更具爭議性 。
as you interact with someone at ted , maybe you can see a word cloud of the tags , the words that are associated with that person in their blog and personal web pages .	當你和ted的某人互動 , 也許你可以看見標籤的雲 , 和他在部落格和個人網頁中的那個人所說的話 。
in this case , the student is interested in cameras , etc .	在這個例子中 , 學生對攝影機感興趣 , 等等 。
on your way to the airport , if you pick up your boarding pass , it can tell you that your flight is delayed , that the gate has changed , etc .	在你的機場上 , 如果你拿起你的登機證 , 它可以告訴你你的飛行延遲了 , 門已經改變了 。
and , if you need to know what the current time is it's as simple as drawing a watch on your arm .	如果你需要知道目前的時光是什麼樣子 , 就如同你手臂上的手錶一樣簡單 。
so that's where we're at so far in developing this sixth sense that would give us seamless access to all this relevant information about the things that we may come across .	這就是我們目前正在發展的第六感 , 讓我們能無縫地取得我們可能遇到的所有相關資訊 。
my student pranav , who's really , like i said , the genius behind this .	我的學生panav , 正如我所說 , 這背後的天才 。
he does deserve a lot of applause because i don't think he's slept much in the last three months , actually .	他的確值得很多掌聲 , 因為我不認為他在過去三個月就睡太多了 。
and his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either .	他的女友也可能對他也不滿意 。
but it's not perfect yet , it's very much a work in progress .	但它還不夠完美 , 它在進步上是很大的 。
and who knows , maybe in another 10 years we'll be here with the ultimate sixth sense brain implant .	誰知道 , 也許在接下來的十年內 , 我們會在這裡 , 最後的第六感大腦植入 。
phyllis rodriguez and aicha elwafi have a powerful friendship born of unthinkable loss . rodriguez' son was killed in the world trade center attacks on september 11 , 2001 ; elwafi's son zacarias moussaoui was convicted of a role in those attacks and is serving a life sentence . in hoping to find peace , these two moms have come to understand and respect one another .	菲利斯•羅德里格茲和亞歷山大•埃瓦菲有強大的友誼 , 出生於不可思議的損失 。 羅德里克斯的兒子在2001年九月十一日被殺害 ; 艾瓦菲的兒子薩科尼被指定在這些攻擊中 , 被定罪 , 同時也被判定為一生 。 希望找到和平 , 這兩個媽媽媽媽必須彼此了解並尊重 。
culture , global issues , politics	文化、全球議題、政治、政治、
9/11 healing: the mothers who found forgiveness , friendship	9/11療癒:找到寬恕的母親、友誼的母親 。
phyllis rodriguez: we are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship .	菲利斯•羅德里格斯:我們今天在這裡 , 是因為我們有大部分人認為的非比尋常的友誼 。
and yet , it feels natural to us now .	然而 , 我們現在感覺很自然 。
i first learned that my son had been in the world trade center on the morning of september 11th , 2001 .	我第一次發現我兒子在世界貿易中心在2001年9月11日的早上 。
we didn't know if he had perished yet until 36 hours later .	我們不知道他是否死亡 , 直到36小時後 。
at the time , we knew that it was political .	當時 , 我們知道它是政治的 。
we were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son my husband , orlando , and i and our family .	我們害怕我們的國家會以我們的兒子名字來命名 , 我的丈夫 , 奧蘭多和我的家人 。
and when i saw it and yet , through the shock , the terrible shock , and the terrible explosion in our lives , literally , we were not vengeful .	當我看到它 , 但 , 透過震驚 , 恐怖的衝擊 , 以及人生中很糟糕的爆炸 , 真的 , 我們並沒有被毒殺 。
and a couple of weeks later when zacarias moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism , and the u . s . government called for a death penalty for him , if convicted , my husband and i spoke out in opposition to that , publicly .	幾個禮拜後 , zacariasmoussaui指出六個陰謀致力於犯下恐怖主義 , 而美國政府要求他為死刑 , 如果定罪 , 我的丈夫和我在公開場合的對立 。
through that and through human rights groups , we were brought together with several other victims' families .	透過這點 , 透過人權團體 , 我們和其他受害者家人聚集在一起 。
when i saw aicha in the media , coming over when her son was indicted , and i thought , " what a brave woman .	當我在媒體上看到阿icha時 , 她兒子被指控 , 我心想: 「 什麼是勇敢的女人 。
someday i want to meet that woman when i'm stronger . "	有一天 , 我想要在我強壯的時候見那個女人 。 」
i was still in deep grief ; i knew i didn't have the strength .	我還在深刻的悲慟中 , 我知道我沒有力量 。
i knew i would find her someday , or we would find each other .	我知道有一天我會找到她 , 或者我們會找到彼此 。
because , when people heard that my son was a victim , i got immediate sympathy .	因為 , 當人們聽到我兒子是受害者時 , 我立即得到同情 。
but when people learned what her son was accused of , she didn't get that sympathy .	但當人們知道她的兒子被指控 , 她並沒有得到同情 。
but her suffering is equal to mine .	但她的苦難等於我 。
so we met in november 2002 , and aicha will now tell you how that came about .	我們在2002年11月見面 , 艾卡哈現在會告訴你那是怎麼來的 。
aicha elwafi: good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen .	阿ichaelfi:午安 , 各位先生女士 。
i am the mother of zacarias moussaoui .	我是祖魯人的母親 。
and i asked the organization of human rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims .	我請人權組織讓我聯絡受害者的父母 。
so they introduced me to five families .	所以他們介紹我到五個家庭 。
and i saw phyllis , and i watched her .	我看到phyllis , 我看著她 。
she was the only mother in the group .	她是團體裡唯一的母親 。
the others were brothers , sisters .	其他人則是兄弟姐妹 。
and i saw in her eyes that she was a mother , just like me .	我在她的眼中看到她是母親 , 就像我一樣 。
i suffered a lot as a mother .	身為母親 , 我常受苦 。
i was married when i was 14 .	我十四歲時結婚 。
i lost a child when i was 15 , a second child when i was 16 .	我十五歲時失去了一個孩子 , 一個十六歲的第二個孩子 。
so the story with zacarias was too much really .	zacarias的故事實在太多了 。
and i still suffer , because my son is like he's buried alive .	我仍然受苦 , 因為我的兒子就像是他活著 。
i know she really cried for her son .	我知道她真的為她的兒子哭了 。
but she knows where he is .	但她知道他在哪裡 。
my son , i don't know where he is .	我兒子 , 我不知道他在哪裡 。
i don't know if he's alive . i don't know if he's tortured .	我不知道他是否活著 , 我不知道他有沒有折磨 。
i don't know what happened to him .	我不知道他發生了什麼事 。
so that's why i decided to tell my story , so that my suffering is something positive for other women .	這就是為什麼我決定說我的故事 , 所以我的苦難對其他女性來說是正面的 。
for all the women , all the mothers that give life , you can give back , you can change .	所有女性 , 所有給予生命的母親 , 你可以回饋 , 你可以改變 。
it's up to us women , because we are women , because we love our children .	取決於我們女性 , 因為我們是女性 , 因為我們愛我們的孩子 。
we must be handinhand and do something together .	我們必須攜手合作 。
it's not against women , it's for us , for us women , for our children .	不是反對女人 , 而是為了我們 , 為我們女人 , 為我們的孩子 。
i talk against violence , against terrorism .	我對抗暴力 , 反對恐怖主義 。
i go to schools to talk to young , muslim girls so they don't accept to be married against their will very young .	我去學校和年輕的穆斯林女孩談 , 讓他們不接受婚姻會很年輕 。
so if i can save one of the young girls , and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as i did , well this is something good .	所以 , 如果我能拯救其中一個年輕女孩 , 避免她們結婚和受苦 , 嗯 , 這是好事 。
this is why i'm here in front of you .	這就是為什麼我站在你們面前 。
pr: i would like to say that i have learned so much from aicha , starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members which was a very private meeting with security , because it was november 2002 , and , frankly , we were afraid of the superpatriotism of that time in the country those of us family members .	pr:我想說 , 我從阿icha學到很多 , 從那天開始 , 我們第一次和其他家庭成員會面 , 那是2002年11月的私人會議 , 坦白說 , 我們害怕那個國家的超級病患 。
but we were all so nervous .	但我們都很緊張 。
" why does she want to meet us ? "	「 為什麼她要和我們見面 ? 」
and then she was nervous .	然後她緊張了 。
" why did we want to meet her ? "	「 為什麼我們想要見到她 ? 」
what did we want from each other ?	我們彼此想要什麼 ?
before we knew each others' names , or anything , we had embraced and wept .	在我們知道彼此的名字之前 , 或任何事之前 , 我們都擁抱和哭泣 。
then we sat in a circle with support , with help , from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation .	接著 , 我們和支持、協助 , 坐在一個圈子裡 , 人們經歷到這種和解 。
and aicha started , and she said , " i don't know if my son is guilty or innocent , but i want to tell you how sorry i am for what happened to your families .	aicha開始說: 「 我不知道我的兒子是否有罪或無辜 , 但我想告訴各位 , 我對你的家庭的影響有多抱歉 。
i know what it is to suffer , and i feel that if there is a crime , a person should be tried fairly and punished . "	我知道受苦是什麼 , 我覺得如果有犯罪 , 一個人應該被公平審判 , 被懲罰 。 」
but she reached out to us in that way , and it was , i'd like to say , it was an icebreaker .	但她用那樣的方式向我們伸出援手 , 我會說 , 那是個冰架 。
and what happened then is we all told our stories , and we all connected as human beings .	接下來發生的是 , 我們都訴說了我們的故事 , 我們都以人類的身分連結 。
by the end of the afternoon it was about three hours after lunch we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever .	下午的結尾大約是午餐後的三小時 , 我們會覺得我們永遠都知道彼此 。
now what i learned from her , is a woman , not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then , and what was being done to her son , but the life she's had .	我從她身上學到的是 , 一個女人 , 不僅可以在現有的環境下慷慨 , 以及當時的狀況 , 以及她兒子所做的事 , 還有她兒子的生活 。
i never had met someone with such a hard life , from such a totally different culture and environment from my own .	我從來沒有遇過這麼艱難的人生 , 來自完全不同的文化和環境 。
and i feel that we have a special connection , which i value very much .	我覺得我們有一種特別的連結 , 我很珍惜 。
and i think it's all about being afraid of the other , but making that step and then realizing , " hey , this wasn't so hard .	我認為這一切都是為了害怕對方 , 但要踏出這一步 , 然後意識到: 「 嘿 , 這並不難 。
who else can i meet that i don't know , or that i'm so different from ? "	我還能和誰見面 , 我不知道 , 或和我的不同 ? 」
so , aicha , do you have a couple of words for conclusion ?	所以 , 阿icha , 你有幾個字可以得到結論嗎 ?
because our time is up .	因為我們的時間到了 。
aw: i wanted to say that we have to try to know other people , the other .	艾美:我想說 , 我們得要試著認識別人 , 另一位 。
you have to be generous , and your hearts must be generous , your mind must be generous .	你必須是慷慨的 , 你的心必須是慷慨的 , 你的心智必須是慷慨的 。
you must be tolerant .	你必須忍受 。
you have to fight against violence .	你必須對抗暴力 。
and i hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other .	我希望有一天我們會一起生活在和平中 , 並尊重彼此 。
this is what i wanted to say .	這是我想要說的 。
too much of the world lacks access to clean drinking water . engineer michael pritchard did something about it inventing the portable lifesaver filter , which can make the most revolting water drinkable in seconds . an amazing demo from tedglobal 2009 .	世上太多人缺乏乾淨的飲用水 。 工程師麥可•普萊特 , 做了一些事情 , 發明了可攜帶的生命過濾器 , 可以在幾秒鐘內做出最具反轉性的飲用水 。 這是2009年tedglobal的一個很棒的演變 。
business , demo , design , global issues , invention , technology , water	商業、mo、設計、全球議題、發明、科技、水、水、水 , 等等 。
michael pritchard's water filter turns filthy water drinkable	michaelprichard的水過濾會讓骯髒的水變乾淨 , 飲用水會變乾淨 。
i'd like to talk about a couple of things today .	今天我想談談幾件事 。
the first thing is water .	第一件事是水 。
now i see you've all been enjoying the water that's been provided for you here at the conference , over the past couple of days .	現在我看到你們都很享受在會議上為你們提供的水 , 在過去的幾天裡 。
and i'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source .	我相信你們會覺得這是來自安全的來源 。
but what if it wasn't ?	但如果不是這樣呢 ?
what if it was from a source like this ?	如果它是來自像這樣的來源呢 ?
then statistics would actually say that half of you would now be suffering with diarrhea .	接著 , 統計數字會說你們當中有一半的人會受腹瀉所苦 。
i talked a lot in the past about statistics , and the provision of safe drinking water for all .	我在過去談過很多關於統計的議題 , 以及所有人的安全飲用水 。
but they just don't seem to get through .	但他們似乎沒有經歷過 。
and i think i've worked out why .	我想我已經找出原因了 。
it's because , using current thinking , the scale of the problem just seems too huge to contemplate solving .	那是因為 , 使用目前的思考 , 問題的規模似乎太大了 , 無法思索解決 。
so we just switch off: us , governments and aid agencies .	所以我們關掉:我們 , 政府和援助機構 。
well , today , i'd like to show you that through thinking differently , the problem has been solved .	今天 , 我想用不同的角度來看 , 問題已經解決了 。
by the way , since i've been speaking , another 13 , 000 people around the world are suffering now with diarrhea .	順帶一提 , 自從我開始說話之後 , 世界各地又有一萬三千人受苦 。
and four children have just died .	四個孩子就死了 。
i invented lifesaver bottle because i got angry .	我發明了生命安全瓶 , 因為我生氣了 。
i , like most of you , was sitting down , the day after christmas in 2004 , when i was watching the devastating news of the asian tsunami as it rolled in , playing out on tv .	我和大部分人一樣 , 在2004年聖誕節過後的那天 , 我看著亞洲海嘯爆發的消息 , 在電視上播放 。
the days and weeks that followed , people fleeing to the hills , being forced to drink contaminated water or face death .	接下來的幾週 , 人們逃到山丘上 , 被迫喝污染的水或死亡 。
that really stuck with me .	這真的讓我印象深刻 。
then , a few months later , hurricane katrina slammed into the side of america .	接著 , 幾個月後 , 卡崔娜颶風衝向美國 。
" okay , " i thought , " here's a first world country , let's see what they can do . "	「 好吧 , 」 我想: 「 這裡是第一個世界國家 , 讓我們看看他們能做什麼 。 」
do you know it took five days to get water to the superdome ?	你知道花了五天才能把水送到超級迷嗎 ?
people were shooting each other on the streets for tv sets and water .	人們在街上互相槍擊電視機和水 。
that's when i decided i had to do something .	那是我決定要做點什麼的時候 。
now i spent a lot of time in my garage , over the next weeks and months , and also in my kitchen much to the dismay of my wife .	現在 , 我在車庫待了很多時間 , 在接下來的幾個禮拜和幾個月 , 在我的廚房裡 , 我太太太太太太太很不安 。
however , after a few failed prototypes , i finally came up with this , the lifesaver bottle .	然而 , 經過幾次失敗的原型之後 , 我終於想出了這個 , 救命瓶子 。
okay , now for the science bit .	好吧 , 現在來談談科學 。
before lifesaver , the best hand filters were only capable of filtering down to about 200 nanometers .	在救生員之前 , 最好的手過濾器只能過濾大約200奈米 。
the smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers .	最小的細菌大約是200奈米 。
so a 200nanometer bacteria is going to get through a 200nanometer hole .	所以 , 一個200奈米的細菌會通過一個200奈米的洞 。
the smallest virus , on the other hand , is about 25 nanometers .	另一方面 , 最小的病毒大約是25奈米 。
so that's definitely going to get through those 200 nanometer holes .	這絕對會穿過那兩百奈米的洞 。
lifesaver pores are 15 nanometers .	生命體內水孔有15奈米 。
so nothing is getting through .	所以 , 沒有任何東西能穿過 。
okay , i'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration .	好 , 我來示範一下 。
would you like to see that ?	你想要看到嗎 ?
i spent all the time setting this up , so i guess i should .	我花了很多時間設定這件事 , 所以我想我應該這麼做 。
we're in the fine city of oxford .	我們正處於最好的牛津城市 。
so someone's done that up .	所以 , 有人這麼做了 。
fine city of oxford , so what i've done is i've gone and got some water from the river cherwell , and the river thames , that flow through here . and this is the water .	牛津的精華城市 , 我所做的是從河邊的水取得一些水 , 還有河流 , 流過這裡 。 這就是水 。
but i got to thinking , you know , if we were in the middle of a flood zone in bangladesh , the water wouldn't look like this .	但我想 , 如果我們在孟加拉的洪水區中央 , 水就不會像這樣 。
so i've gone and got some stuff to add into it .	所以 , 我做了一些東西來加入它 。
and this is from my pond .	這是來自我的池塘 。
have a smell of that , mister cameraman .	聞到一味 , 攝影師 。
we're just going to pour that in there .	我們就直接把它倒進去 。
michael pritchard: okay . we've got some runoff from a sewage plant farm .	michaelprichard:好的 , 我們有一些從污水廠跑過來的 。
so i'm just going to put that in there .	所以 , 我要把它放進去 。
put that in there . there we go .	把它放進去 , 就這樣 。
and some other bits and pieces , chuck that in there .	還有其他的部分和碎片 , 把它浸在裡面 。
and i've got a gift here from a friend of mine's rabbit .	我有一個來自我朋友的兔子的禮物 。
so we're just going to put that in there as well .	我們也要把它放進去 。
the lifesaver bottle works really simply .	救命瓶子很簡單 。
you just scoop the water up .	你只要把水分開來 。
today i'm going to use a jug just to show you all . let's get a bit of that poo in there .	今天我要用一個斷層給你們看 , 讓你們看一下吧 。
that's not dirty enough . let's just stir that up a little bit .	這還不夠髒 。 讓我們再稍微攪拌一下 。
okay , so i'm going to take this really filthy water , and put it in here . do you want a drink yet ?	好吧 , 我現在要用這個非常骯髒的水 , 把它放進去 。 你還想要飲料嗎 ?
okay . there we go .	好 , 開始了 。
give it a few pumps . okay ?	給一些幫浦 。 好嗎 ?
that's all that's necessary .	這就是必要的 。
now as soon as i pop the teat , sterile drinking water is going to come out .	一旦我把茶倒下 , 無菌的飲用水就會出現 。
i've got to be quick . okay , ready ?	我得快點 。 好 , 準備好了嗎 ?
there we go . mind the electrics .	就這樣 。 注意電 。
that is safe , sterile drinking water .	那是安全、無菌飲用水 。
there you go chris .	去克里斯 。
what's it taste of ?	它嚐到什麼 ?
let's see chris's program throughout the rest of the show . okay ?	我們來看看克里斯的節目在其餘的節目 。 好嗎 ?
okay . lifesaver bottle is used by thousands of people around the world .	好吧 , 世界各地有數以千計的人在使用生命安全瓶 。
it'll last for 6 , 000 liters .	它會維持六千公升 。
and when it's expired , using failsafe technology , the system will shut off , protecting the user .	儘管如此 , 使用失敗的技術 , 系統會關閉 , 保護使用者 。
pop the cartridge out . pop a new one in .	把貨車送出去 , 把一個新裝置進去 。
it's good for another 6 , 000 liters .	另外六千個公升是好的 。
so let's look at the applications .	咱們來看看應用 。
traditionally , in a crisis , what do we do ?	傳統上 , 在危機中 , 我們該怎麼做 ?
then , after a few weeks , we set up camps .	接著 , 幾個星期後 , 我們設立營地 。
and people are forced to come into the camps to get their safe drinking water .	人們被迫進入營地 , 取得安全的飲用水 。
what happens when 20 , 000 people congregate in a camp ?	當20萬人聚集在難民營時會發生什麼事 ?
diseases spread . more resources are required .	疾病散播 , 需要更多資源 。
the problem just becomes selfperpetuating .	問題就變成自我表達 。
but by thinking differently , and shipping these , people can stay put .	但透過不同的思考方式 , 運送這些東西 , 人們就可以保持下去 。
they can make their own sterile drinking water , and start to get on with rebuilding their homes and their lives .	他們可以自己製造無菌飲用水 , 開始重建家園和生活 。
now , it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work .	現在 , 這並不需要自然災害才能成功 。
using the old thinking , of national infrastructure and pipe work , is too expensive .	用舊的想法 , 國家基礎建設和管道工作 , 實在太貴了 。
when you run the numbers on a calculator , you run out of noughts .	當你在計算器上運行數字時 , 你就跑出來了 。
so here is the " thinking different " bit .	這裡是 「 思考不同 」 的部分 。
instead of shipping water , and using manmade processes to do it , let's use mother nature . she's got a fantastic system .	不要運送水 , 用人造的過程來做 , 讓我們用大自然 。 她有一個很棒的系統 。
she picks the water up from there , desalinates it , for free , transports it over there , and dumps it onto the mountains , rivers , and streams .	她從那裡取得水 , 免費地將水淡化 , 運送到那裡 , 把它丟到山上、河流 , 和河流上 。
and where do people live ? near water .	人們住在哪裡 ? 靠近水 。
all we've go to do is make it sterile . how do we do that ?	我們要做的就是讓它變得無菌 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , we could use the lifesaver bottle .	嗯 , 我們可以用救命瓶子 。
or we could use one of these .	或者 , 我們可以用其中一種 。
the same technology , in a jerry can .	同樣的技術 , 在jerry的罐子裡 。
this will process 25 , 000 liters of water ; that's good enough for a family of four , for three years .	這會處理2萬5千公升的水 ; 這對四個家庭來說已經夠好了 , 三年了 。
and how much does it cost ?	要花多少錢 ?
about half a cent a day to run .	每天花費約半美分 。
so , by thinking differently , and processing water at the point of use , mothers and children no longer have to walk four hours a day to collect their water .	所以 , 透過不同的思考方式 , 在使用水的時候 , 母親和孩子們不再需要每天走四個小時來收集他們的水 。
they can get it from a source nearby .	他們可以從附近的來源取得 。
so with just eight billion dollars , we can hit the millennium goal's target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water .	只要花八十億美金 , 我們就能達到千禧目標 , 目標是要把沒有安全飲用水的人數減少 。
to put that into context , the u . k . government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid .	將其放入情境中 , 英國政府每年花費大約一百二十億英鎊給外援 。
but why stop there ?	但為什麼要停止 ?
with 20 billion dollars , everyone can have access to safe drinking water .	有了20億美元 , 每個人都能取得安全的飲用水 。
so the threeandahalf billion people that suffer every year as a result , and the two million kids that die every year , will live .	結果每年有三十五億人受苦 , 每年死亡的兩百萬名孩子 , 會活下去 。
paddy ashdown claims that we are living in a moment in history where power is changing in ways it never has before . in a spellbinding talk at tedxbrussels he outlines the three major global shifts that he sees coming .	paddyashdown聲稱我們生活在歷史上 , 權力正在改變的方式 , 從來沒有改變過 。 在tedxbrussel的拼字演說中 , 他排除了他所見的三大全球變遷 。
foreign policy , global issues , politics , world cultures	外交政策 , 全球議題 , 政治 , 世界文化 , 文化 。
paddy ashdown: the global power shift	paddyashdown:全球的權力轉變 。
there's a poem written by a very famous english poet at the end of the 19th century .	十九世紀末 , 有一首非常有名的英文詩人寫的詩 。
it was said to echo in churchill's brain in the 1930s .	在三十年代 , 有人說要在教堂的腦袋裡回音 。
and the poem goes: " on the idle hill of summer , lazy with the flow of streams , hark i hear a distant drummer , drumming like a sound in dreams , far and near and low and louder on the roads of earth go by , dear to friend and food to powder , soldiers marching , soon to die . "	然後這首詩說: 「 在夏天的冰山 , 和河流的流動下 , 我聽到一個遙遠的鼓聲 , 像在夢裡的聲響 , 距離很低 , 越來越大聲的道路上 , 親愛的朋友和食物到粉末 , 士兵們遊行 , 很快就死了 。 」
those who are interested in poetry , the poem is " a shropshire lad " written by a . e . housman .	那些對詩歌感興趣的人 , 這首詩是 " 蝦子女士 " 由a.e.休斯曼所寫 。
but what housman understood , and you hear it in the symphonies of nielsen too , was that the long , hot , silvan summers of stability of the 19th century were coming to a close , and that we were about to move into one of those terrifying periods of history when power changes .	但 , 休士人了解的 , 你也在尼爾森的交響樂中聽到了 , 就是十九世紀的漫長、熱、西爾文的夏天 , 即將接近 , 而我們即將進入歷史上最可怕的時期之一 。
and these are always periods , ladies and gentlemen , accompanied by turbulence , and all too often by blood .	這些都是時期 , 各位先生女士 , 伴隨著亂流 , 經常是血液 。
and my message for you is that i believe we are condemned , if you like , to live at just one of those moments in history when the gimbals upon which the established order of power is beginning to change and the new look of the world , the new powers that exist in the world , are beginning to take form .	我對你們的訊息是 , 我相信我們已經被確認了 , 只活在歷史上的那些時刻 , 那些被建立的秩序開始改變世界的新看法 , 新的勢力 , 世界存在的新勢力開始形成 。
and these are and we see it very clearly today nearly always highly turbulent times , highly difficult times , and all too often very bloody times .	今天我們很清楚地看到它幾乎每次都非常混亂 , 極度困難 , 且經常是血腥時期 。
by the way , it happens about once every century .	順便一提 , 它發生在每世紀一次 。
you might argue that the last time it happened and that's what housman felt coming and what churchill felt too was that when power passed from the old nations , the old powers of europe , across the atlantic to the new emerging power of the united states of america the beginning of the american century .	你也許會主張 , 最後一次發生了 , 休士人也感受到了 , 教會也感受到 , 當權力從舊國家、歐洲的老勢力 , 跨越大西洋到美國新興的新興國家 , 美國本世紀初期 。
and of course , into the vacuum where the tooold european powers used to be were played the two bloody catastrophes of the last century the one in the first part and the one in the second part: the two great world wars .	當然 , 在真空中 , 以前歐洲人的力量 , 都是在上個世紀的兩個血腥災難 , 第一部分 , 第二部分是:兩次世界大戰 。
mao zedong used to refer to them as the european civil wars , and it's probably a more accurate way of describing them .	maozedong以前稱呼他們為歐洲內戰 , 這可能是更準確的描述他們的方式 。
well , ladies and gentlemen , we live at one of those times .	各位先生女士 , 我們生活在其中之一 。
but for us , i want to talk about three factors today .	但對我們來說 , 我今天要談的三個因素 。
and the first of these , the first two of these , is about a shift in power .	第一種 , 第一種是權力的轉變 。
and the second is about some new dimension which i want to refer to , which has never quite happened in the way it's happening now .	第二 , 關於一些新的維度我想說的是 , 這種維度從來沒有發生過 。
but let's talk about the shifts of power that are occurring to the world .	但讓我們來談談權力的轉變 , 發生在世界上 。
and what is happening today is , in one sense , frightening because it's never happened before .	今天發生的是 , 在某種意義上 , 害怕 , 因為它從來沒有發生過 。
we have seen lateral shifts of power the power of greece passed to rome and the power shifts that occurred during the european civilizations but we are seeing something slightly different .	我們已經見識過希臘的力量轉移到羅馬的力量和在歐洲文明發生的權力轉移但我們卻看到一些稍微不同的東西
for power is not just moving laterally from nation to nation .	權力不只從國家轉移到國家 。
it's also moving vertically .	它也垂直移動 。
what's happening today is that the power that was encased , held to accountability , held to the rule of law , within the institution of the nation state has now migrated in very large measure onto the global stage .	現今正在發生的力量是 , 被監禁的權力 , 被控訴法律規則 , 在國家的制度中 , 現在已經遷移到極大的全球舞台上 。
the globalization of power we talk about the globalization of markets , but actually it's the globalization of real power .	全球化的權力我們談的是全球化市場 , 但實際上它是全球化的權力 。
and where , at the nation state level that power is held to accountability subject to the rule of law , on the international stage it is not .	在國家的層級上 , 權力被控訴法律的規則 , 在國際舞台上 , 它不是 。
the international stage and the global stage where power now resides: the power of the internet , the power of the satellite broadcasters , the power of the money changers this vast moneygoround that circulates now 32 times the amount of money necessary for the trade it's supposed to be there to finance the money changers , if you like , the financial speculators that have brought us all to our knees quite recently , the power of the multinational corporations now developing budgets often bigger than mediumsized countries .	國際舞台和全球各地的權力 , 網際網路的力量 , 衛星廣播者的力量 , 金錢改變了這個廣大的金錢改革者的力量 , 交通的金額現在是貿易所必要的三十二倍 , 該有金錢去補助金錢的改變者 , 如果你喜歡的話 , 金融的推動者將我們全都帶到我們的膝蓋上 , 最近 , 大量的跨國企業的力量 , 大幅發展 , 大幅增加了大幅發展中國家 。
these live in a global space which is largely unregulated , not subject to the rule of law , and in which people may act free of constraint .	這些生活在一個完全沒有規範的全球空間 , 而非法律規則 , 而在其中 , 人們可能不受限制 。
now that suits the powerful up to a moment .	這跟強而有力的時刻有關 。
it's always suitable for those who have the most power to operate in spaces without constraint , but the lesson of history is that , sooner or later , unregulated space space not subject to the rule of law becomes populated , not just by the things you wanted international trade , the internet , etc . but also by the things you don't want international criminality , international terrorism .	那些在沒有限制的情況下 , 最有權力的人 , 總是適當的 , 但歷史的教訓是:很快 , 或很快地 , 沒有受到法律規範的影響 , 不只是你想要的國際貿易 , 網路等等 。 還有你不想要的國際犯罪 , 國際恐怖主義 。
the revelation of 9/11 is that even if you are the most powerful nation on earth , nevertheless , those who inhabit that space can attack you even in your most iconic of cities one bright september morning .	911事件的揭示是 , 即使你是地球上最強大的國家 , 儘管如此 , 那些住在那空間的人 , 甚至可以攻擊你最具代表性的城市 , 一個九月早晨 。
it's said that something like 60 percent of the four million dollars that was taken to fund 9/11 actually passed through the institutions of the twin towers which 9/11 destroyed .	據說 , 佔了四百萬美金的百分之六十 , 被送到911恐怖攻擊的金額 , 實際上通過了雙胞胎塔的機構 , 911摧毀了 。
you see , our enemies also use this space the space of mass travel , the internet , satellite broadcasters to be able to get around their poison , which is about destroying our systems and our ways .	我們的敵人也用這個空間 , 大眾旅行、網路、衛星廣播 , 來抵達它們的毒物 , 也就是破壞我們的系統和方法 。
sooner or later , sooner or later , the rule of history is that where power goes governance must follow .	不久後 , 不久後 , 歷史的規則就是權力的治理必須跟隨 。
and if it is therefore the case , as i believe it is , that one of the phenomenon of our time is the globalization of power , then it follows that one of the challenges of our time is to bring governance to the global space .	正如我所說的 , 假如我相信 , 我們這個時代的一個現象就是全球化的權力 , 那麼我們這個時代的挑戰就是把統治力帶到全球 。
and i believe that the decades ahead of us now will be to a greater or lesser extent turbulent the more or less we are able to achieve that aim: to bring governance to the global space .	我相信 , 未來的幾十年 , 將會是更大或更少的亂流 , 我們能夠達成這個目標:把治理帶到全球 。
now notice , i'm not talking about government .	請注意 , 我不是在說政府 。
i'm not talking about setting up some global democratic institution .	我不是在說要設立一些全球性的民主機構 。
my own view , by the way , ladies and gentlemen , is that this is unlikely to be done by spawning more u . n . institutions .	順帶一提 , 我自己的觀點是 , 女士們先生們 , 這種觀點不太可能是出發更多聯合國的機構 。
if we didn't have the u . n . , we'd have to invent it .	如果我們沒有聯合國 , 我們就得要發明它 。
the world needs an international forum .	世界需要一個國際論壇 。
it needs a means by which you can legitimize international action .	它需要一種方法 , 你可以合法化國際行動 。
but when it comes to governance of the global space , my guess is this won't happen through the creation of more u . n . institutions .	但當談到管理全球空間時 , 我的猜測是 , 這不會發生在聯合國制度的創建中 。
it will actually happen by the powerful coming together and making treatybased systems , treatybased agreements , to govern that global space .	它會由強大的力量團結起來 , 建立以條約為基礎的系統、以條約為基礎的協議 , 來管理全球空間 。
and if you look , you can see them happening , already beginning to emerge .	如果你看 , 你可以看到它們正在發生 , 已經開始出現了 。
the world trade organization: treatybased organization , entirely treatybased , and yet , powerful enough to hold even the most powerful , the united states , to account if necessary .	世界貿易組織:以條約為基礎的組織 , 完全以條約為基礎 , 但 , 強大到能夠容納最強大的國家 , 美國是必要的 。
kyoto: the beginnings of struggling to create a treatybased organization .	kyoto:努力創建一個以條約為基礎的組織 。
the g20: we know now that we have to put together an institution which is capable of bringing governance to that financial space for financial speculation .	二十國:我們現在知道 , 我們得要組合一個機構 , 讓治理可以帶到金融空間 , 來做金融推測 。
and that's what the g20 is , a treatybased institution .	這就是g20的主要原因 , 一個以條約為基礎的機構 。
now there's a problem there , and we'll come back to it in a minute , which is that if you bring the most powerful together to make the rules in treatybased institutions , to fill that governance space , then what happens to the weak who are left out ?	現在有個問題 , 我們等一下再回來談談 , 如果你把最強大的力量結合起來 , 以條約為基礎的機構 , 來填補治理的空間 , 那麼弱者會發生什麼事 ?
and that's a big problem , and we'll return to it in just a second .	這是個大問題 , 我們等一下就會回到問題上 。
so there's my first message , that if you are to pass through these turbulent times more or less turbulently , then our success in doing that will in large measure depend on our capacity to bring sensible governance to the global space .	所以這是我第一個要傳遞的訊息 , 如果你要越過這些亂流的時間越多 , 那麼我們的成功會大大地取決於我們的能力 , 將合理的治理帶到全球 。
and watch that beginning to happen .	看著它開始發生 。
my second point is , and i know i don't have to talk to an audience like this about such a thing , but power is not just shifting vertically , it's also shifting horizontally .	我的第二點是 , 我知道我不需要和像這樣的觀眾談談 , 但權力不只是垂直轉變 , 也在轉變 。
you might argue that the story , the history of civilizations , has been civilizations gathered around seas with the first ones around the mediterranean , the more recent ones in the ascendents of western power around the atlantic .	你可能會認為 , 文明的歷史 , 已經在海裡聚集在地中海最初的文明 , 越是近期的文明 , 出現在大西方勢力的衝突中 。
well it seems to me that we're now seeing a fundamental shift of power , broadly speaking , away from nations gathered around the atlantic [seaboard] to the nations gathered around the pacific rim .	我看來 , 我們現在看到的是權力的轉變 , 廣泛地說 , 遠離大西洋公園周圍的國家聚集在太平洋岸邊緣的國家 。
now that begins with economic power , but that's the way it always begins .	這從經濟力量開始 , 但這一直是這樣開始的 。
you already begin to see the development of foreign policies , the augmentation of military budgets occurring in the other growing powers in the world .	你已經開始看到外國政策的發展 , 軍事預算的擴增 , 發生在世界上其他增長的力量 。
i think actually this is not so much a shift from the west to the east ; something different is happening .	我認為這並不是西方移民的轉變 , 而是有不同的事情發生了 。
my guess is , for what it's worth , is that the united states will remain the most powerful nation on earth for the next 10 years , 15 , but the context in which she holds her power has now radically altered ; it has radically changed .	我的猜測是 , 值得的是 , 美國會留住地球上最強大的國家 , 未來十年、十五年 , 但她持有的權力已經徹底改變了 ; 它徹底改變了 。
we are coming out of 50 years , most unusual years , of history in which we have had a totally monopolar world , in which every compass needle for or against has to be referenced by its position to washington a world bestrode by a single colossus .	我們正從50年來 , 史上最不尋常的年份 , 歷史中 , 我們有一個完全獨一無二的世界 , 每一個羅盤都必須被它的位置給華盛頓 , 一個單一的大科索斯所指出的世界 。
but that's not a usual case in history .	但這不是歷史上常見的案例 。
in fact , what's now emerging is the much more normal case of history .	事實上 , 現在出現的是更正常的歷史 。
you're beginning to see the emergence of a multipolar world .	你開始看到一個多向世界的出現 。
up until now , the united states has been the dominant feature of our world .	到目前為止 , 美國一直是世界的主導特徵 。
they will remain the most powerful nation , but they will be the most powerful nation in an increasingly multipolar world .	他們會維持最強大的國家 , 但他們會是世界上越來越強大的國家 。
and you begin to see the alternative centers of power building up in china , of course , though my own guess is that china's ascent to greatness is not smooth .	你開始看到中國的替代權力中心當然 , 我的猜測是中國的優勢不是平滑的 。
it's going to be quite grumpy as china begins to democratize her society after liberalizing her economy .	隨著中國在自由化經濟後 , 開始將她的社會民主化 。
but that's a subject of a different discussion .	但這是個不同的討論 。
you see india , you see brazil .	你看到印度 , 巴西 。
you see increasingly that the world now looks actually , for us europeans , much more like europe in the 19th century .	你可以看到 , 越來越多的歐洲人看起來 , 更像十九世紀的歐洲人 。
europe in the 19th century: a great british foreign secretary , lord canning , used to describe it as the " european concert of powers . "	十九世紀的歐洲:一個英國外交部長 , 倫敦罐頭 , 用來形容它是 「 歐洲的權力協會 」 。
there was a balance , a fivesided balance .	有一個平衡 , 一個五邊的平衡 。
britain always played to the balance .	英國總是為了平衡而扮演 。
if paris got together with berlin , britain got together with vienna and rome to provide a counterbalance .	如果巴黎和柏林一起 , 英國和維也納和羅馬合作 , 來提供平衡 。
now notice , in a period which is dominated by a monopolar world , you have fixed alliances nato , the warsaw pact .	請注意 , 在這段期間 , 由單一世界主宰的期間 , 你有固定的聯盟 , nato , 戰爭的先驅 。
a fixed polarity of power means fixed alliances .	一個固定的權力 , 意味著聯盟 。
but a multiple polarity of power means shifting and changing alliances .	但多種權力的對立意味著轉變和改變聯盟 。
and that's the world we're coming into , in which we will increasingly see that our alliances are not fixed .	這就是我們要進入的世界 , 我們會漸漸看到我們的聯盟不是固定的 。
canning , the great british foreign secretary once said , " britain has a common interest , but no common allies . "	坎林 , 偉大的英國外交部長曾經說過: 「 英國有很大的利益 , 但沒有普遍的盟友 。 」
and we will see increasingly that even we in the west will reach out , have to reach out , beyond the cozy circle of the atlantic powers to make alliances with others if we want to get things done in the world .	我們會逐漸看到 , 即使我們西方國家會伸出援手 , 必須伸出援手 , 超越大西洋的力量圈 , 才能和其他人聯盟 , 如果我們想讓世界上的一切都做得更好 。
note , that when we went into libya , it was not good enough for the west to do it alone ; we had to bring others in .	注意 , 當我們進入利比亞時 , 西方國家並不夠好 , 我們得要把其他人帶進來 。
we had to bring , in this case , the arab league in .	在這個例子中 , 我們必須把阿拉伯聯盟帶進來 。
my guess is iraq and afghanistan are the last times when the west has tried to do it themselves , and we haven't succeeded .	我的猜測是伊拉克和阿富汗是西方試過的最後一次 , 我們還沒成功 。
my guess is that we're reaching the beginning of the end of 400 years i say 400 years because it's the end of the ottoman empire of the hegemony of western power , western institutions and western values .	我想 , 我們已經達到400年底了 , 我說400年了 , 因為那是西方國家權力的終結 , 西方的西方國家制度和西方價值觀的終結 。
you know , up until now , if the west got its act together , it could propose and dispose in every corner of the world .	你知道 , 到目前為止 , 如果西方國家團結起來 , 它可以在世界上的每一個角落提出並消除 。
but that's no longer true .	但這已經不再是事實了 。
take the last financial crisis after the second world war .	以第二次世界大戰後的金融危機為例 。
the west got together the bretton woods institution , world bank , international monetary fund the problem solved .	西方國家聚集了布雷頓森林機構 , 世界銀行 , 國際貨幣基金--這個問題解決了 。
now we have to call in others .	現在我們必須在別人身上打電話 。
now we have to create the g20 .	現在我們必須創造g20 。
now we have to reach beyond the cozy circle of our western friends .	現在我們必須超越西方朋友圈 。
let me make a prediction for you , which is probably even more startling .	讓我為你們做個預測 , 這可能更令人吃驚 。
i suspect we are now reaching the end of 400 years when western power was enough .	我懷疑我們現在已經達到400年底了 , 那時西方的權力已經足夠了 。
people say to me , " the chinese , of course , they'll never get themselves involved in peacemaking , multilateral peacemaking around the world . "	人們對我說: 「 中國 , 當然 , 他們永遠不會參與和平協會 , 全世界的多邊和平協會 。 」
oh yes ? why not ?	喔 ? 為什麼不呢 ?
how many chinese troops are serving under the blue beret , serving under the blue flag , serving under the u . n . command in the world today ?	有多少位中國軍隊在藍色的貝雷下服役 , 在藍色的旗子下服役 , 在聯合國指揮下服役 ?
how many americans ? 11 .	有多少美國人 ? 十一歲 。
what is the largest naval contingent tackling the issue of somali pirates ?	什麼是最大的海軍隊處理索馬利海盜的問題 ?
the chinese naval contingent .	中國的指導內容 。
of course they are , they are a mercantilist nation .	當然 , 他們是一名合併主義的國家 。
they want to keep the sea lanes open .	他們想要保持海道開放 。
increasingly , we are going to have to do business with people with whom we do not share values , but with whom , for the moment , we share common interests .	漸漸地 , 我們得要和那些不分享價值觀的人做生意 , 同時 , 我們有共同的利益 。
it's a whole new different way of looking at the world that is now emerging .	這是一個全新的角度來看現在正在興起的世界 。
and here's the third factor , which is totally different .	第三個因素是完全不同的 。
today in our modern world , because of the internet , because of the kinds of things people have been talking about here , everything is connected to everything .	現今 , 在我們的現代世界裡 , 由於網路 , 因為人們在這裡談論的東西 , 一切都和所有事物有關 。
we are now interdependent .	我們現在是相互依賴的 。
we are now interlocked , as nations , as individuals , in a way which has never been the case before , never been the case before .	我們現在被封鎖 , 作為國家 , 作為個體 , 在以前從來沒有這樣過 , 以前從來沒有這樣過 。
the interrelationship of nations , well it's always existed .	國家之間的關聯性 , 它總是存在的 。
diplomacy is about managing the interrelationship of nations .	外交是管理國家之間的關聯性 。
but now we are intimately locked together .	但現在我們被緊密鎖住了 。
you get swine flu in mexico , it's a problem for charles de gaulle airport 24 hours later .	你在墨西哥有豬流感 , 查爾斯•高爾的機場在24小時後就有問題了 。
lehman brothers goes down , the whole lot collapses .	雷曼兄弟下降了 , 整個崩潰了 。
there are fires in the steppes of russia , food riots in africa .	俄羅斯的大草原、非洲的食物暴動 。
we are all now deeply , deeply , deeply interconnected .	我們現在都深深、深切的相互連結 。
and what that means is the idea of a nation state acting alone , not connected with others , not working with others , is no longer a viable proposition .	這意味著 , 一個國家獨立行動的理念 , 和他人連結 , 而非和他人合作 , 不再是個可行的建議 。
because the actions of a nation state are neither confined to itself , nor is it sufficient for the nation state itself to control its own territory , because the effects outside the nation state are now beginning to affect what happens inside them .	因為一個國家的行動本身也不被限制 , 也不足以讓國家自己控制自己的領土 , 因為國家的影響已經開始影響他們內在的狀況 。
i was a young soldier in the last of the small empire wars of britain .	我是英國最後一個小型帝國戰爭的年輕士兵 。
at that time , the defense of my country was about one thing and one thing only: how strong was our army , how strong was our air force , how strong was our navy and how strong were our allies .	那時 , 我國家的防禦 , 只有一件事:我們的軍隊有多強壯 , 我們的空軍有多強壯 , 我們的海軍有多強壯 , 我們的盟友有多強壯 。
that was when the enemy was outside the walls .	那是敵人在牆外的時候 。
now the enemy is inside the walls .	敵人在牆壁裡 。
now if i want to talk about the defense of my country , i have to speak to the minister of health because pandemic disease is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of agriculture because food security is a threat to my security , i have to speak to the minister of industry because the fragility of our hitech infrastructure is now a point of attack for our enemies as we see from cyber warfare i have to speak to the minister of home affairs because who has entered my country , who lives in that terraced house in that inner city has a direct effect on what happens in my country as we in london saw in the 7/7 bombings .	現在 , 如果我想要談談我國家的防禦 , 我得要和健康部長談談 , 因為流行疾病對我的安全是威脅 , 我得要和農業部長談談 , 因為糧食保障對我的保安 , 我得要和工業部談談談 , 因為我們的希臘基礎建設的脆弱 , 現在我們看到敵人對我們的敵人來說 , 在網路戰場上 , 我得要談談談談談我們國家的影響 , 因為在77個國家裡 , 在我的家裡 , 貧民窟裡 , 貧民窟裡 , 貧民窟裡 , 貧民區的家裡 , 貧民窟裡 , 貧民窟裡 , 貧民窟裡 , 貧民區的家裡 , 貧民區已經發生了 。
it's no longer the case that the security of a country is simply a matter for its soldiers and its ministry of defense .	一個國家的安全性不再只是對士兵及國防的重要性 。
it's its capacity to lock together its institutions .	它是將其制度結合的能力 。
and this tells you something very important .	這告訴你們一件很重要的事 。
it tells you that , in fact , our governments , vertically constructed , constructed on the economic model of the industrial revolution vertical hierarchy , specialization of tasks , command structures have got the wrong structures completely .	它告訴你 , 事實上 , 我們的政府 , 垂直建構 , 建立在工業革命的經濟模式上 , 垂直的階級制度 , 任務的專業化 , 指令結構完全錯了 。
you in business know that the paradigm structure of our time , ladies and gentlemen , is the network .	在商業界 , 各位先生女士 , 這種模式就是網路 。
it's your capacity to network that matters , both within your governments and externally .	網絡的能力很重要 , 不論是你的政府或外部 。
so here is ashdown's third law .	這裡是shdown的第三定律 。
by the way , don't ask me about ashdown's first law and second law because i haven't invented those yet ; it always sounds better if there's a third law , doesn't it ?	順帶一提 , 不要問我阿什登第一定律和第二定律 , 因為我還沒發明過這些 ; 如果有第三定律 , 聽起來就會比較好 , 對吧 ?
ashdown's third law is that in the modern age , where everything is connected to everything , the most important thing about what you can do is what you can do with others .	ashdown第三定律是 , 在現代 , 每件事都和每件事連結在一起 , 最重要的事就是你能做的事 , 就是你能做的事 。
the most important bit about your structure whether you're a government , whether you're an army regiment , whether you're a business is your docking points , your interconnectors , your capacity to network with others .	不管你是政府 , 不管你是軍隊註冊 , 不管你是企業 , 是你的支票點 , 你的連結點 , 和他人建立網路的能力 。
you understand that in industry ; governments don't .	你明白這一點 , 在產業裡 , 政府不懂 。
but now one final thing .	但最後一件事 。
if it is the case , ladies and gentlemen and it is that we are now locked together in a way that has never been quite the same before , then it's also the case that we share a destiny with each other .	如果是這樣的 , 各位先生女士 , 女士們 , 我們現在被關在以前從來沒有完全相同的情況下 , 那也是我們彼此命運的案例 。
suddenly and for the very first time , collective defense , the thing that has dominated us as the concept of securing our nations , is no longer enough .	突然間 , 集體防禦 , 主導我們作為保護國家安全的概念 , 已經不夠了 。
it used to be the case that if my tribe was more powerful than their tribe , i was safe ; if my country was more powerful than their country , i was safe ; my alliance , like nato , was more powerful than their alliance , i was safe .	以前 , 如果我的部落比他們的部落更強大 , 我是安全的 ; 如果我的國家比他們的國家更強大 , 我是安全的 ; 我的盟友 , 像是nato , 比他們的盟友更強大 , 我很安全 。
it is no longer the case .	它不再是案例了 。
the advent of the interconnectedness and of the weapons of mass destruction means that , increasingly , i share a destiny with my enemy .	大規模毀滅性武器的出現意味著 , 我和敵人有越來越多的命運 。
when i was a diplomat negotiating the disarmament treaties with the soviet union in geneva in the 1970s , we succeeded because we understood we shared a destiny with them .	1970年代 , 我曾和日內瓦的蘇聯協商協商 , 我們成功 , 因為我們知道我們和他們分享了命運 。
collective security is not enough .	集體安全不夠 。
peace has come to northern ireland because both sides realized that the zerosum game couldn't work .	和平來到北愛爾蘭 , 因為雙方意識到零和遊戲無法運作 。
they shared a destiny with their enemies .	他們和敵人分享了命運 。
one of the great barriers to peace in the middle east is that both sides , both israel and , i think , the palestinians , do not understand that they share a collective destiny .	在中東和平的一個大障礙是以色列和巴勒斯坦人的兩邊 , 他們並不知道他們有共同的命運 。
and so suddenly , ladies and gentlemen , what has been the proposition of visionaries and poets down the ages becomes something we have to take seriously as a matter of public policy .	所以 , 女士們先生們 , 先生們 , 遠見者和詩人的主張 , 我們必須認真看待公共政策 。
i started with a poem , i'll end with one .	我從一首詩開始 , 我會用一首 。
the great poem of john donne's .	約翰•唐諾的偉大詩 。
" send not for whom the bell tolls . "	「 不要送誰去花錢 。 」
the poem is called " no man is an island . "	這首詩叫做 「 沒有人是一座島嶼 。 」
and it goes: " every man's death affected me , for i am involved in mankind , send not to ask for whom the bell tolls , it tolls for thee . "	答案是: 「 每個男人的死亡都會影響我 , 因為我涉及人類 , 不要去尋求誰的鈴聲 , 要去找誰 。 」
for john donne , a recommendation of morality .	對於約翰唐諾 , 一種道德的建議 。
for us , i think , part of the equation for our survival .	對我們來說 , 我認為 , 是我們生存的一部分 。
to find the path to long life and health , dan buettner and team study the world's " blue zones , " communities whose elders live with vim and vigor to recordsetting age . at tedxtc , he shares the 9 common diet and lifestyle habits that keep them spry past age 100 .	為了找到長壽和健康的路 , 丹•布特納和團隊研究世界的 「 藍色區域 」 , 他們的長輩和維京人住在一起 , 在tedxtc記錄年齡 。 他分享了9種常見的飲食習慣 , 讓他們能在一百歲之前流行 。
biology , culture , exploration , food , health , life , science	生物學、文化、探索、食物、健康、生命、科學、科學、科學 。
dan buettner: how to live to be 100+	丹•布伊特納:如何活到一百倍+
something called the danish twin study established that only about 10 percent of how long the average person lives , within certain biological limits , is dictated by our genes .	丹麥雙胞胎研究發現 , 一般人的平均壽命只有百分之十 , 在某些生物限制下 , 是由我們的基因決定 。
the other 90 percent is dictated by our lifestyle .	另外百分之九十是由生活方式主宰 。
so the premise of blue zones: if we can find the optimal lifestyle of longevity we can come up with a de facto formula for longevity .	所以 , 藍色區域的前提是:如果我們能找到長壽的最佳生活方式 , 我們就能找到長壽的事實公式 。
but if you ask the average american what the optimal formula of longevity is , they probably couldn't tell you .	但如果你問美國人長壽的最佳公式 , 他們可能不會告訴你 。
they've probably heard of the south beach diet , or the atkins diet .	他們可能聽說過南海灘的飲食 , 或墨水的飲食 。
you have the usda food pyramid .	你有美國食品金字塔 。
there is what oprah tells us .	歐普拉告訴我們 ,
there is what doctor oz tells us .	奧茲醫生告訴我們什麼 。
the fact of the matter is there is a lot of confusion around what really helps us live longer better .	事實是 , 對於真正幫助我們活得更好的事物 , 有很多困惑 。
should you be running marathons or doing yoga ?	你應該跑馬拉松還是做瑜伽 ?
should you eat organic meats or should you be eating tofu ?	你應該吃有機肉還是應該吃豆腐 ?
when it comes to supplements , should you be taking them ?	談到供應時 , 你應該要拿它們嗎 ?
how about these hormones or resveratrol ?	荷爾蒙或復育運動呢 ?
and does purpose play into it ?	是否有目的呢 ?
spirituality ? and how about how we socialize ?	精神 ? 我們如何社交呢 ?
well , our approach to finding longevity was to team up with national geographic , and the national institute on aging , to find the four demographically confirmed areas that are geographically defined .	我們尋找長壽的方法是和國家地理雜誌合作 , 國家老化研究所 , 找出四個人口統計的地區 , 地理上定義的區域 。
and then bring a team of experts in there to methodically go through exactly what these people do , to distill down the crosscultural distillation .	接著 , 帶一組專家來研究這些人所做的事 , 將跨文化的干擾逐漸減少 。
and at the end of this i'm going to tell you what that distillation is .	最後我要告訴各位那是什麼 。
but first i'd like to debunk some common myths when it comes to longevity .	但 , 首先 , 我想在長壽的過程中破除一些常見的迷思 。
and the first myth is if you try really hard you can live to be 100 .	第一個迷思是 , 如果你真的很努力 , 你可以活到100歲 。
the problem is , only about one out of 5 , 000 people in america live to be 100 .	問題是 , 美國的50000人中只有1人活到100歲 。
your chances are very low .	你的機會非常低 。
even though it's the fastest growing demographic in america , it's hard to reach 100 .	儘管它是美國成長最快的人口統計 , 但它很難達到100歲 。
the problem is that we're not programmed for longevity .	問題是 , 我們沒有為長壽設計 。
we are programmed for something called procreative success .	我們被編寫成所謂的繁榮成功 。
i love that word .	我愛這個詞 。
it reminds me of my college days .	它讓我想起我大學的日子 。
biologists term procreative success to mean the age where you have children and then another generation , the age when your children have children .	生物學家術語是成功的年齡 , 意思是你有孩子的年齡 , 接著是另一個世代 , 當你的孩子有小孩的年齡 。
after that the effect of evolution completely dissipates .	在那次演化的效應完全消失了 。
if you're a mammal , if you're a rat or an elephant , or a human , in between , it's the same story .	如果你是哺乳類動物 , 如果你是一隻老鼠 , 或一隻大象 , 或人類 , 在兩者之間 , 則是相同的故事 。
so to make it to age 100 , you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle , you also have to have won the genetic lottery .	為了讓它達到一百歲 , 你不只需要有很好的生活方式 , 你還得贏得基因彩票 。
the second myth is , there are treatments that can help slow , reverse , or even stop aging .	第二個迷思是 , 有些治療可以減緩、逆轉 , 甚至阻止老化 。
when you think of it , there is 99 things that can age us .	想想看 , 有99件事情可以讓我們老化 。
deprive your brain of oxygen for just a few minutes , those brain cells die , they never come back .	剝奪了你的腦部氧 , 短短幾分鐘 , 這些腦細胞就會死亡 , 它們永遠不會回來 。
play tennis too hard , on your knees , ruin your cartilage , the cartilage never comes back .	玩網球太硬 , 在你的膝蓋 , 毀壞你的軟骨 , 軟骨永遠不會回來 。
our arteries can clog . our brains can gunk up with plaque , and we can get alzheimer's .	我們的動脈會堵塞 。 我們的大腦可以用白斑來引導 , 我們可以得到阿茲海默症 。
there is just too many things to go wrong .	有太多事情會出錯 。
our bodies have 35 trillion cells , trillion with a " t . " we're talking national debt numbers here .	我們的身體有35兆個細胞 , 有一兆個 「 t 」 。 我們在這裡談的是國家債務數字 。
those cells turn themselves over once every eight years .	這些細胞每8年就一次自轉一次 。
and every time they turn themselves over there is some damage . and that damage builds up .	每當他們轉過來時 , 就會造成損害 。
and it builds up exponentially .	它以指數的方式建造 。
it's a little bit like the days when we all had beatles albums or eagles albums and we'd make a copy of that on a cassette tape , and let our friends copy that cassette tape , and pretty soon , with successive generations that tape sounds like garbage .	有點像當我們有披頭四或老鷹專輯的日子 , 我們會在錄音帶上複製 , 讓朋友們複製錄錄錄錄錄音帶 , 很快地 , 錄音帶聽起來就像垃圾一樣 。
well , the same things happen to our cells .	同樣的事發生在我們的細胞上 。
that's why a 65yearold person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12yearold person .	這就是為什麼一個65歲的人老化的速度比一個125歲的人快125倍 。
so , if there is nothing you can do to slow your aging or stop your aging , what am i doing here ?	所以 , 如果沒有任何東西可以減緩老化或阻止老化 , 我在這裡做什麼 ?
well , the fact of the matter is the best science tells us that the capacity of the human body , my body , your body , is about 90 years , a little bit more for women .	事實上 , 最好的科學告訴我們 , 人體的能力 , 我的身體 , 你的身體大約是90年 , 對女人來說 , 稍微多一點 。
but life expectancy in this country is only 78 .	但在美國的預期壽命只有78歲 。
so somewhere along the line , we're leaving about 12 good years on the table .	所以 , 在這條路上 , 我們留下了大約12年的好年 。
these are years that we could get .	這些是我們可以得到的 。
and research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease , heart disease , cancer and diabetes .	研究顯示 , 它們會大多不再是慢性疾病、心臟疾病、癌症、糖尿病 。
we think the best way to get these missing years is to look at the cultures around the world that are actually experiencing them , areas where people are living to age 100 at rates up to 10 times greater than we are , areas where the life expectancy is an extra dozen years , the rate of middle age mortality is a fraction of what it is in this country .	我們認為 , 讓這些缺失的最佳方式就是看看全世界的文化 , 真正體驗到它們的文化 , 人們生活的年齡比我們現在的百歲還要高十倍 , 預期壽命多了十多年 , 中年死亡率的比例是這個國家的一部分 。
we found our first blue zone about 125 miles off the coast of italy , on the island of sardinia .	我們在義大利海岸的海岸找到了我們的第一個藍色區域 , 在薩丁尼亞島上 。
and not the entire island , the island is about 1 . 4 million people , but only up in the highlands , an area called the nuoro province .	不是整個島嶼 , 島嶼大約有140萬人 , 但只有在高地 , 一個叫做努羅省的區域 。
and here we have this area where men live the longest , about 10 times more centenarians than we have here in america .	這裡我們有男人最長壽的地區 , 比美國這裡的百歲人多了十倍 。
and this is a place where people not only reach age 100 , they do so with extraordinary vigor .	這個地方 , 人們不只到達100歲 , 還在做非凡的訪客 。
places where 102 year olds still ride their bike to work , chop wood , and can beat a guy 60 years younger than them .	在那裡 , 十二歲的人仍然騎腳踏車去工作 , 木頭 , 還能打敗比他們年輕六十歲的人 。
their history actually goes back to about the time of christ .	他們的歷史回到基督的時代 。
it's actually a bronze age culture that's been isolated .	它其實是種孤立的青銅文化 。
because the land is so infertile , they largely are shepherds , which occasions regular , lowintensity physical activity .	因為土地太不生育了 , 大多是牧羊人 , 偶爾會有規律、低強度的實體活動 。
their diet is mostly plantbased , accentuated with foods that they can carry into the fields .	他們的飲食大部分是以植物為基礎的 , 主要是以食物為中心 , 他們可以帶到田野中 。
they came up with an unleavened whole wheat bread called carta musica made out of durum wheat , a type of cheese made from grassfed animals so the cheese is high in omega3 fatty acids instead of omega6 fatty acids from cornfed animals , and a type of wine that has three times the level of polyphenols than any known wine in the world .	他們想出了一個未發酵的全麥麵包 , 叫做carta音樂 , 由笨蛋製成的一種乳酪 , 一種來自草食動物的乳酪 , 乳酪是omega-3脂肪酸 , 而不是omega-6脂肪酸 , 一種葡萄糖含有三倍於世界上所知的葡萄酒量 。
but the real secret i think lies more in the way that they organize their society .	但我認為真正的秘密是他們組織社會的方式 。
and one of the most salient elements of the sardinian society is how they treat older people .	薩丁尼亞社會中最常見的元素之一就是他們對待老年人的方式 。
you ever notice here in america , social equity seems to peak at about age 24 ?	你有沒有注意到 , 在美國 , 社會平等似乎是在24歲時達到高峰 ?
just look at the advertisements .	看看廣告 。
here in sardinia , the older you get the more equity you have , the more wisdom you're celebrated for .	在薩丁尼亞 , 年紀越長 , 你得到越多的平等 , 你所得到的智慧越多 。
you go into the bars in sardinia , instead of seeing the sports illustrated swimsuit calendar , you see the centenarian of the month calendar .	你走進薩丁尼亞的酒吧 , 而不是看到運動畫出的游泳日曆 , 你看到的是月曆的百歲人 。
this , as it turns out , is not only good for your aging parents to keep them close to the family it imparts about four to six years of extra life expectancy research shows it's also good for the children of those families , who have lower rates of mortality and lower rates of disease .	事實證明 , 這不僅對你的老年人父母來說是有益的 , 讓他們靠近家庭 , 還能維持大約四到六年的額外壽命研究顯示 , 對那些家庭的孩子來說也是有益的 , 他們的死亡率比較低 , 疾病的比例也比較低 。
that's called the grandmother effect .	這叫做祖母效應 。
we found our second blue zone on the other side of the planet , about 800 miles south of tokyo , on the archipelago of okinawa .	我們發現地球另一邊的第二個藍色區域 , 東京的南方約800英哩 , 位在奧地加哥的阿基地 。
okinawa is actually 161 small islands .	okinawa實際上是161個小島
and in the northern part of the main island , this is ground zero for world longevity .	在主島的北部 , 這是世界長壽的零地 。
this is a place where the oldest living female population is found .	這個地方是最古老的女性族群被發現的地方 。
it's a place where people have the longest disabilityfree life expectancy in the world .	這個地方 , 人們有世界上最長的身心障礙壽命 。
they have what we want .	他們有我們想要的 。
they live a long time , and tend to die in their sleep , very quickly , and often , i can tell you , after sex .	牠們活很久 , 通常會在牠們的睡眠中死亡 , 很快 , 通常 , 我會告訴你 , 性之後 。
they live about seven good years longer than the average american .	他們的壽命比美國人的平均壽命長七年 。
five times as many centenarians as we have in america .	美國和百歲人一樣 , 有五倍之多 。
one fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer , big killers here in america .	五分之一的蟻群和乳癌的比例 , 在美國這裡的大型殺手 。
and one sixth the rate of cardiovascular disease .	心血管疾病的第六分之一 。
and the fact that this culture has yielded these numbers suggests strongly they have something to teach us .	事實是 , 這種文化讓這些數字很強烈地表示他們有東西可以教我們 。
what do they do ?	他們會怎麼做 ?
once again , a plantbased diet , full of vegetables with lots of color in them .	再一次 , 以植物為基礎的飲食 , 裡面有很多顏色的蔬菜 。
and they eat about eight times as much tofu as americans do .	他們和美國人一樣吃大約八倍的豆腐 。
more significant than what they eat is how they eat it .	比他們吃的東西更重要 。
they have all kinds of little strategies to keep from overeating , which , as you know , is a big problem here in america .	他們有各式各樣的小策略可以避免過度使用 , 如你所知 , 這在美國是個大問題 。
a few of the strategies we observed: they eat off of smaller plates , so they tend to eat fewer calories at every sitting .	我們觀察到的一些策略:它們會從較小的盤子裡吃掉 , 所以它們會在每位坐著時吃比較少的卡路里 。
instead of serving family style , where you can sort of mindlessly eat as you're talking , they serve at the counter , put the food away , and then bring it to the table .	與其服用家人風格 , 在談話時 , 你可以輕鬆地吃 , 不用在櫃子上 , 把食物拿走 , 然後把它帶到桌子上 。
they also have a 3 , 000yearold adage , which i think is the greatest sort of diet suggestion ever invented .	他們還有3000年的廣告 , 我認為這是有史以來最偉大的飲食建議 。
it was invented by confucius .	它是由混亂所發明的 。
and that diet is known as the hara , hatchi , bu diet .	這種飲食被稱為 「 哈拉 , hatchi , htchi , butifttantt 。 」
it's simply a little saying these people say before their meal to remind them to stop eating when their stomach is [80] percent full .	簡單來說 , 這些人在吃飯之前說 , 要提醒他們不要再吃80%的肚子 。
it takes about a half hour for that full feeling to travel from your belly to your brain .	要花大約半小時 , 才能從你的肚子到你的大腦 。
and by remembering to stop at 80 percent it helps keep you from doing that very thing .	記住 , 80%的停止 , 它會幫助你不做這事 。
but , like sardinia , okinawa has a few social constructs that we can associate with longevity .	但 , 像薩丁尼亞 , okinwa有一些社會結構 , 可以讓我們和長壽有關 。
we know that isolation kills .	我們知道孤立會致死 。
fifteen years ago , the average american had three good friends .	15年前 , 美國人平均有三個好朋友 。
we're down to one and half right now .	我們現在只剩一半 。
if you were lucky enough to be born in okinawa , you were born into a system where you automatically have a half a dozen friends with whom you travel through life .	如果你夠幸運 , 在okinawa出生 , 你就生在一個系統裡 , 自動有半個朋友 , 和你在人生中旅行 。
they call it a moai . and if you're in a moai you're expected to share the bounty if you encounter luck , and if things go bad , child gets sick , parent dies , you always have somebody who has your back .	他們稱之為moai 。 如果你是moai , 你預期會遇上運氣 , 如果你遇到運氣 , 孩子會生病 , 父母會死 , 總是會有人背 。
this particular moai , these five ladies have been together for 97 years .	這五個女士聚集了九十七年 。
their average age is 102 .	他們的平均年齡是102歲 。
typically in america we've divided our adult life up into two sections .	一般來說 , 在美國 , 我們把成人的生命分成兩部分 。
there is our work life , where we're productive .	這是我們的工作生活 , 我們有生產力 。
and then one day , boom , we retire .	然後有一天 , 我們退休了 。
and typically that has meant retiring to the easy chair , or going down to arizona to play golf .	通常這就意味著退休椅子 , 或是去亞利桑那州玩高爾夫球 。
in the okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement .	在俄克納瓦語中 , 甚至沒有退休的詞彙 。
instead there is one word that imbues your entire life , and that word is " ikigai . "	取而代之 , 一生中有一個詞是 「 ikigai 」 。
and , roughly translated , it means " the reason for which you wake up in the morning . "	大約是翻譯了 , 意思是 「 早上醒來的原因 。 」
for this 102yearold karate master , his ikigai was carrying forth this martial art .	對於這位102歲的凱爾特大師 , 他的吉加尼帶著這件火星藝術 。
for this hundredyearold fisherman it was continuing to catch fish for his family three times a week .	對於這一百歲的漁夫而言 , 每週捕魚量持續三倍 。
and this is a question . the national institute on aging actually gave us a questionnaire to give these centenarians .	這是個問題 。 國家老化研究所給我們一份問卷 , 給我們一份問卷 , 給予百歲人 。
and one of the questions , they were very culturally astute , the people who put the questionnaire .	其中一個問題是 , 他們是非常文化的財富 , 那些提出問卷的人 。
one of the questions was , " what is your ikigai ? "	其中一個問題是: 「 你的ikigai是什麼 ? 」
they instantly knew why they woke up in the morning .	他們馬上就知道為什麼早上起床 。
for this 102 year old woman , her ikigai was simply her greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	對於這102歲的老婦人 , 她的吉加西只是她的曾曾曾曾曾曾孫女 。
two girls separated in age by 101 and a half years .	兩個女孩在101歲就分開了 。
and i asked her what it felt like to hold a greatgreatgreatgranddaughter .	我問她是什麼感覺 , 拿著曾曾曾曾曾曾孫女的感覺 。
and she put her head back and she said , " it feels like leaping into heaven . "	她回頭說: 「 感覺就像跳上天堂 。 」
i thought that was a wonderful thought .	我覺得這是個很棒的想法 。
my editor at geographic wanted me to find america's blue zone .	我在地理雜誌的編輯希望我能找到美國的藍色區域 。
and for a while we looked on the prairies of minnesota , where actually there is a very high proportion of centenarians .	有一陣子 , 我們看明尼蘇達的草原 , 那裡有非常高比例的百歲人 。
but that's because all the young people left .	但那是因為所有的年輕人都離開了 。
so , we turned to the data again .	所以 , 我們再次轉向資料 。
and we found america's longestlived population among the seventhday adventists concentrated in and around loma linda , california .	我們發現美國最長壽的人口是加州的第七天冒險家集中在加州的羅馬林達 。
adventists are conservative methodists .	先進者是保守的方法主義者 。
they celebrate their sabbath from sunset on friday till sunset on saturday .	他們在星期五日落的日落慶祝他們的安息日直到星期六日落
a " 24hour sanctuary in time , " they call it .	他們稱之為 「 24小時的庇護所 」 。
and they follow five little habits that conveys to them extraordinary longevity , comparatively speaking .	他們遵循五個小習慣 , 傳達給他們非凡的長壽 , 相對來說 。
in america here , life expectancy for the average woman is 80 .	在美國 , 平均女性平均壽命是80歲 。
but for an adventist woman , their life expectancy is 89 .	但對一位先進女士而言 , 他們的預期壽命是89 。
and the difference is even more pronounced among men , who are expected to live about 11 years longer than their american counterparts .	差別在於 , 比起他們的美國人多了11年 。
now , this is a study that followed about 70 , 000 people for 30 years .	這個研究追蹤了大約七萬人三十年 。
sterling study . and i think it supremely illustrates the premise of this blue zone project .	嚴格的研究 。 我認為這很明顯說明了這個藍色區域計畫的前提 。
this is a heterogeneous community .	這是個異性族群 。
it's white , black , hispanic , asian .	它是白人、黑人、西班牙語、亞洲人 。
the only thing that they have in common are a set of very small lifestyle habits that they follow ritualistically for most of their lives .	他們唯一的共通點是一組非常小的生活習慣 , 他們在人生中幾乎都是以儀式來追蹤 。
they take their diet directly from the bible .	他們直接從聖經中取得他們的飲食 。
genesis: chapter one , verse [29] , where god talks about legumes and seeds , and on one more stanza about green plants , ostensibly missing is meat .	遺傳:第一章 , 第二章 , 上帝談到傳單和種子 , 再談到綠色植物 , 很明顯地 , 遺漏了肉 。
they take this sanctuary in time very serious .	他們認真看待這個保護區 。
for 24 hours every week , no matter how busy they are , how stressed out they are at work , where the kids need to be driven , they stop everything and they focus on their god , their social network , and then , hardwired right in the religion , are nature walks .	每週有24小時 , 不論他們有多忙、工作壓力多大 , 孩子需要被驅動 , 他們會停止一切 , 專注於他們的上帝、他們的社交網路 , 然後 , 在宗教中 , 天生就走路了 。
and the power of this is not that it's done occasionally , the power is it's done every week for a lifetime .	這種力量的力量並不是偶爾會發生 , 權力是每週都在做一輩子 。
none of it's hard . none of it costs money .	沒有一個困難 。 沒有一個代價 。
adventists also tend to hang out with other adventists .	冒險家們也傾向和其他的冒險家混在一起 。
so , if you go to an adventist's party you don't see people swilling jim beam or rolling a joint .	所以 , 如果你去參加一位先進派對 , 你不會看到人們在游動吉姆姆姆 , 或是在開關 。
instead they're talking about their next nature walk , exchanging recipes , and yes , they pray .	取而代之的是 , 他們在談論下一個自然步行 , 交換食譜 , 沒錯 , 他們祈禱 。
but they influence each other in profound and measurable ways .	但它們互相影響 , 以深遠且可測量的方式 。
this is a culture that has yielded ellsworth whareham .	這是一種文化 , 讓埃爾斯•沃爾斯•萊姆得到了價值 。
ellsworth whareham is 97 years old .	埃爾斯•沃爾罕姆已經九十七歲了 。
he's a multimillionaire , yet when a contractor wanted 6 , 000 dollars to build a privacy fence , he said , " for that kind of money i'll do it myself . "	他是數百萬富翁 , 但當一個承包商想要6 , 000美元來建立隱私的柵欄 , 他說: 「 為了這樣的錢 , 我會自己去做 。 」
so for the next three days he was out shoveling cement , and hauling poles around .	所以接下來的三天 , 他出門了水泥 , 四處運送兩極 。
and predictably , perhaps , on the fourth day he ended up in the operating room .	也許 , 在第四天 , 他最後到了手術室 。
but not as the guy on the table ; the guy doing openheart surgery .	但不是這位在桌上的人 ; 做開心手術的人 。
at 97 he still does 20 openheart surgeries every month .	九十七歲時 , 他仍然每個月做二十次開心手術 。
ed rawlings , 103 years old now , an active cowboy , starts his morning with a swim .	艾德•格林斯 , 103歲 , 活躍的牛仔 , 早上開始游泳 。
and on weekends he likes to put on the boards , throw up rooster tails .	週末 , 他喜歡裝在板子上 , 丟下羅斯特的尾巴 。
her grandson actually lives in the twin cities here .	她的孫子其實住在雙胞胎城市 。
she starts her day with lifting weights .	她開始了她的日子 , 帶著升重 。
she rides her bicycle .	她騎腳踏車 。
and then she gets in her rootbeer colored 1994 cadillac seville , and tears down the san bernardino freeway , where she still volunteers for seven different organizations .	然後她走進rootbeer , 彩色了1994年卡迪拉克賽維爾 , 在聖bernardino高速公路上 , 她仍然自願為七個不同的組織自願 。
i've been on 19 hardcore expeditions .	我參加了19次硬幣探險 。
i'm probably the only person you'll ever meet who rode his bicycle across the sahara desert without sunscreen .	我可能是你遇過的唯一一個騎腳踏車橫跨撒哈拉沙漠 , 沒有防曬霜 。
but i'll tell you , there is no adventure more harrowing than riding shotgun with marge deton .	但我會告訴你 , 沒有冒險 , 比起馬克•德頓的騎腳踏車更痛苦 。
" a stranger is a friend i haven't met yet ! " she'd say to me .	「 陌生人是我尚未見面的朋友 ! 」 她會對我說 。
so , what are the common denominators in these three cultures ?	所以 , 在這三個文化中 , 有哪些共同點 ?
what are the things that they all do ?	他們所做的事是什麼 ?
and we managed to boil it down to nine .	我們成功歸結為九個 。
in fact we've done two more blue zone expeditions since this and these common denominators hold true .	事實上 , 自此以來 , 我們還做了兩次藍色區域探險 , 這些常見的探險員都堅持著真相 。
and the first one , and i'm about to utter a heresy here , none of them exercise , at least the way we think of exercise .	首先 , 我將要說的是 , 這裡沒有運動 , 至少我們認為運動的方式 。
instead , they set up their lives so that they are constantly nudged into physical activity .	相反地 , 他們建立了自己的生命 , 讓他們經常被剝奪到實體活動 。
these 100yearold okinawan women are getting up and down off the ground , they sit on the floor , 30 or 40 times a day .	這些100歲的俄羅瓦婦女正站在地面上 , 每天坐30到40次 。
sardinians live in vertical houses , up and down the stairs .	薩丁尼亞人住在垂直的房子裡 , 樓梯上下 。
every trip to the store , or to church or to a friend's house occasions a walk .	每次旅行到店裡 , 或去教堂 , 或去朋友家 , 都會有走路 。
they don't have any conveniences .	他們沒有任何方便 。
there is not a button to push to do yard work or house work .	沒有按下按鈕 , 做院子工作或房子工作 。
if they want to mix up a cake , they're doing it by hand .	如果他們想要混合蛋糕 , 他們會用手做 。
that burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does .	跑步機的燃燒卡路里和跑步機一樣 。
when they do do intentional physical activity , it's the things they enjoy . they tend to walk , the only proven way to stave off cognitive decline , and they all tend to have a garden .	當他們做刻意的身體活動時 , 他們很享受 , 他們傾向於走路 , 唯一能證明偷走認知衰退的途徑 , 他們都傾向有花園 。
they know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook .	他們知道如何以正確的方式生活 , 讓他們有正確的前景 。
each of these cultures take time to downshift .	每一種文化都需要時間下降 。
the sardinians pray . the seventhday adventists pray .	薩丁尼亞人祈禱 。 第七天的冒險家祈禱 。
the okinawans have this ancestor veneration .	okinawans有一位祖先探險家 。
but when you're in a hurry or stressed out , that triggers something called the inflammatory response , which is associated with everything from alzheimer's disease to cardiovascular disease .	但當你處在急救或壓力之中 , 會觸發一種叫 「 發炎反應 」 的反應 , 這種反應和阿茲海默症的一切有關 , 從阿茲海默症到心血管疾病 。
when you slow down for 15 minutes a day you turn that inflammatory state into a more antiinflammatory state .	當你一天放慢15分鐘 , 你就會把發炎狀態轉變成更抗炎的狀態 。
they have vocabulary for sense of purpose , ikigai , like the okinawans .	他們有詞彙 , 目的、ikigai , 像是okinawans 。
you know the two most dangerous years in your life are the year you're born , because of infant mortality , and the year you retire .	你知道你生命中最危險的兩年是你出生的那一年 , 因為嬰兒死亡率 , 而你退休的那一年 。
these people know their sense of purpose , and they activate in their life , that's worth about seven years of extra life expectancy .	這些人知道自己的目的 , 他們活躍在自己的人生中 , 值得七年的預期壽命 。
there's no longevity diet .	沒有長壽飲食 。
instead , these people drink a little bit every day , not a hard sell to the american population .	相反地 , 這些人每天喝一點點酒 , 而不是賣給美國人 。
they tend to eat a plantbased diet .	他們傾向吃植物的飲食 。
doesn't mean they don't eat meat , but lots of beans and nuts .	不是說牠們不吃肉 , 而是很多豆子和堅果 。
and they have strategies to keep from overeating , little things that nudge them away from the table at the right time .	他們有策略來避免過度的小事 , 讓他們遠離桌子 。
and then the foundation of all this is how they connect .	這一切的基礎就是它們如何連結 。
they put their families first , take care of their children and their aging parents .	他們先把家人放在第一點 , 照顧他們的孩子和他們的老年人 。
they all tend to belong to a faithbased community , which is worth between four and 14 extra years of life expectancy if you do it four times a month .	他們全都屬於信仰型的社區 , 值於每個月四到十四年的預期壽命 , 如果你每個月做四次 。
and the biggest thing here is they also belong to the right tribe .	最重要的是 , 它們也屬於對的部落 。
they were either born into or they proactively surrounded themselves with the right people .	他們不是出生 , 或主動把自己和對的人圍繞在一起 。
we know from the framingham studies , that if your three best friends are obese there is a 50 percent better chance that you'll be overweight .	我們從法蘭罕默研究得知 , 如果三個最好的朋友過胖 , 會有百分之五十的機率是過重的 。
so , if you hang out with unhealthy people , that's going to have a measurable impact over time .	所以 , 如果你和不健康的人聊天 , 隨時間就會產生可測量的影響 。
instead , if your friend's idea of recreation is physical activity , bowling , or playing hockey , biking or gardening , if your friends drink a little , but not too much , and they eat right , and they're engaged , and they're trusting and trustworthy , that is going to have the biggest impact over time .	相反地 , 如果你的朋友對於復育的概念是物理活動 , 弓箭 , 或彈奏曲棍 , 騎腳踏車或園藝 , 如果你的朋友喝點小酒 , 但不太太太好吃 , 他們很有吸引力 , 信任和值得信賴 , 這會隨著時間產生最大的影響 。
diets don't work . no diet in the history of the world has ever worked for more than two percent of the population .	飲食是行不通的 。 世界歷史上沒有飲食 , 超過百分之二的人口都沒有用 。
exercise programs usually start in january ; they're usually done by october .	運動程式通常是一月開始的 ; 通常是十月完成的 。
when it comes to longevity there is no short term fix in a pill or anything else .	當談到長壽時 , 藥丸或其它什麼都沒有短期修復 。
but when you think about it , your friends are longterm adventures , and therefore , perhaps the most significant thing you can do to add more years to your life , and life to your years . thank you very much .	但當你想到的時候 , 你的朋友是長期冒險 , 因此 , 也許你能做的最重要的事 , 多加年你的人生 , 及生活 , 非常謝謝你 。
ink that conducts electricity ; a window that turns from clear to opaque at the flip of a switch ; a jelly that makes music . all this stuff exists , and catarina mota says: it's time to play with it . mota leads us on a tour of surprising and cool new materials , and suggests that the way we'll figure out what they're good for is to experiment , tinker and have fun .	墨水指揮電力 ; 一扇窗戶 , 從清晰的轉換到開關 ; 製成音樂的水母 。 所有這些東西都存在 , 卡塔娜•莫塔說:是時候和它一起玩 。 mota帶領我們到驚喜且酷炫的新材料旅程 , 並建議我們要知道如何做實驗、做粉絲 , 並且有趣 。
creativity , design , technology	創造力 , 設計 , 科技 , 科技 , 創造力 , 設計 , 科技 , 科技 。
catarina mota: play with smart materials	catarinamota:用智慧材料玩樂 。
i have a friend in portugal whose grandfather built a vehicle out of a bicycle and a washing machine so he could transport his family .	我在葡萄牙有個朋友 , 他的祖父用腳踏車和洗衣機建造了一台車 , 讓他可以運送他的家人 。
he did it because he couldn't afford a car , but also because he knew how to build one .	他這麼做是因為他買不起一輛車 , 也因為他知道怎麼建造一個 。
there was a time when we understood how things worked and how they were made , so we could build and repair them , or at the very least make informed decisions about what to buy .	曾有一段時間 , 我們明白事情是如何運作的 , 以及它們是如何運作的 , 這樣我們才能建造、修復它們 , 或至少要知道如何購買什麼 。
many of these doityourself practices were lost in the second half of the 20th century .	許多這種做法在二十世紀後半葉消失了 。
but now , the maker community and the opensource model are bringing this kind of knowledge about how things work and what they're made of back into our lives , and i believe we need to take them to the next level , to the components things are made of .	但現在 , 製造商社區和開源模型將這種知識帶入我們生活中 , 我相信我們需要把它們帶到下一個層級 , 以零件組成的 。
for the most part , we still know what traditional materials like paper and textiles are made of and how they are produced .	大部分的情況下 , 我們仍然知道紙張和紡織品的傳統材料是怎麼組成的 , 以及它們是如何產生的 。
but now we have these amazing , futuristic composites plastics that change shape , paints that conduct electricity , pigments that change color , fabrics that light up .	但現在我們有了這些令人驚訝、美妙的複合材料 , 會改變形狀、油漆、導電、變色、顏料、發光 。
let me show you some examples .	讓我給你們看一些例子 。
so conductive ink allows us to paint circuits instead of using the traditional printed circuit boards or wires .	所以導電墨水能讓我們繪製電路而不是使用傳統印刷電路板或電線
in the case of this little example i'm holding , we used it to create a touch sensor that reacts to my skin by turning on this little light .	在我手上的這個小例子中 , 我們用它來製造觸摸感測器 , 用這個小小的光來啟動我的皮膚 。
conductive ink has been used by artists , but recent developments indicate that we will soon be able to use it in laser printers and pens .	由藝術家所使用的導電墨水 , 但最近的發展指出 , 我們很快就會用雷射印表機和筆來使用 。
and this is a sheet of acrylic infused with colorless lightdiffusing particles .	這張照片是用無顏色的光照射粒子注射出來的 。
what this means is that , while regular acrylic only diffuses light around the edges , this one illuminates across the entire surface when i turn on the lights around it .	這意味著 , 雖然一般的水晶只會在邊緣散射出光 , 這個光會在整個表面打開燈泡時 , 整個表面都會發光 。
two of the known applications for this material include interior design and multitouch systems .	這材料的兩種應用 , 包括室內設計和多點觸控系統 。
and thermochromic pigments change color at a given temperature .	溫度的溫度會改變顏色 。
so i'm going to place this on a hot plate that is set to a temperature only slightly higher than ambient and you can see what happens .	所以我要把這個放在一個熱盤上 , 讓溫度比環境稍高 , 你可以看到會發生什麼事 。
so one of the principle applications for this material is , amongst other things , in baby bottles , so it indicates when the contents are cool enough to drink .	所以 , 這種材料的原則之一就是 , 在嬰兒瓶中 , 嬰兒瓶中 , 它會指出 , 當內容物夠酷 , 可以喝的時候 。
so these are just a few of what are commonly known as smart materials .	這些只是一般所知的智慧材料 。
in a few years , they will be in many of the objects and technologies we use on a daily basis .	幾年後 , 它們會出現在我們每天使用的許多物品和技術中 。
we may not yet have the flying cars science fiction promised us , but we can have walls that change color depending on temperature , keyboards that roll up , and windows that become opaque at the flick of a switch .	我們可能還沒有飛車科幻小說給我們保證 , 但我們可以有改變顏色的牆 , 取決於溫度 , 鍵盤會滾起來 , 窗戶會變成開關的反光 。
so i'm a social scientist by training , so why am i here today talking about smart materials ?	所以 , 我是社會科學家 , 我今天要談的是智慧型材料 ?
well first of all , because i am a maker .	首先 , 因為我是製造家 。
i'm curious about how things work and how they are made , but also because i believe we should have a deeper understanding of the components that make up our world , and right now , we don't know enough about these hightech composites our future will be made of .	我很好奇事物是如何運作的 , 也是因為我相信我們應該更深入了解組成我們的世界的元件 , 而現在 , 我們對於這些高科技組成的組成 , 我們的未來還不夠了解 。
smart materials are hard to obtain in small quantities .	聰明的材料很難在小量中取得 。
there's barely any information available on how to use them , and very little is said about how they are produced .	幾乎沒有任何關於如何使用它們的資訊 , 幾乎沒有任何關於它們如何產生的資訊 。
so for now , they exist mostly in this realm of trade secrets and patents only universities and corporations have access to .	所以 , 目前 , 他們主要存在於貿易秘密的領域 , 只有大學和企業才能取得專利 。
so a little over three years ago , kirsty boyle and i started a project we called open materials .	三年前 , kirsty男孩和我成立了一個專案 , 我們稱之為開放式材料 。
it's a website where we , and anyone else who wants to join us , share experiments , publish information , encourage others to contribute whenever they can , and aggregate resources such as research papers and tutorials by other makers like ourselves .	這是一個網站 , 我們和任何想要加入我們的人 , 分享實驗、出版資訊 , 鼓勵大家隨時都能做出貢獻 , 以及聚集的資源 , 例如研究論文 , 以及其他像我們一樣的人 。
we would like it to become a large , collectively generated database of doityourself information on smart materials .	我們希望它成為一個大型、集體的資料庫 , 資料庫是關於智慧材料的資料庫 。
but why should we care how smart materials work and what they are made of ?	但我們為什麼要關心智慧材料是如何運作的 ? 以及它們的組成成是什麼 ?
first of all , because we can't shape what we don't understand , and what we don't understand and use ends up shaping us .	首先 , 因為我們無法改變我們不了解的東西 , 以及我們不了解的東西 , 最終會影響我們 。
the objects we use , the clothes we wear , the houses we live in , all have a profound impact on our behavior , health and quality of life .	我們使用的物品、穿著的衣服、住的房子 , 都對我們的行為、健康和生活品質有深遠的影響 。
so if we are to live in a world made of smart materials , we should know and understand them .	所以 , 如果我們要生活在一個由智慧材料組成的世界 , 我們應該要知道並了解它們 。
secondly , and just as important , innovation has always been fueled by tinkerers .	第二 , 同樣重要的是 , 創新總是由tinker推動的 。
so many times , amateurs , not experts , have been the inventors and improvers of things ranging from mountain bikes to semiconductors , personal computers , airplanes .	很多時候 , 業餘人士 , 不是專家 , 都是發明者和改進者 , 從山腳踏車到半導體、個人電腦、飛機 。
the biggest challenge is that material science is complex and requires expensive equipment .	最大的挑戰是材料科學很複雜 , 且需要昂貴的設備 。
but that's not always the case .	但這並不總是如此 。
two scientists at university of illinois understood this when they published a paper on a simpler method for making conductive ink .	伊利諾大學的兩位科學家在出版論文時 , 明白了一篇比較簡單的論文 , 用來製作導電墨水 。
jordan bunker , who had had no experience with chemistry until then , read this paper and reproduced the experiment at his maker space using only offtheshelf substances and tools .	約旦•布朗克 , 他沒有化學經驗 , 直到那時 , 讀到這篇論文 , 並在他的製造商空間中繁殖這個實驗 , 只用現成的物質和工具 。
he used a toaster oven , and he even made his own vortex mixer , based on a tutorial by another scientist/maker .	他用烤箱 , 甚至用他自己的蒸氣混合器 , 根據另一位科學家/maker的指導 。
jordan then published his results online , including all the things he had tried and didn't work , so others could study and reproduce it .	喬登後來在網路上發表了他的結果 , 包括他嘗試過的所有事情 , 並且沒有成功 , 其他人可以研究並複製它 。
so jordan's main form of innovation was to take an experiment created in a wellequipped lab at the university and recreate it in a garage in chicago using only cheap materials and tools he made himself .	約旦的主要創新形式是把一個實驗在大學裡的一個很好的設備實驗室裡 , 並在芝加哥的車庫裡重建 , 只用便宜的材料和工具 , 他自己製造了 。
and now that he published this work , others can pick up where he left and devise even simpler processes and improvements .	而現在他發表了這項研究 , 其他人可以取得他離開的地方 , 甚至可以設計更簡單的過程和改善 。
another example i'd like to mention her project's goal is to highlight the expressive qualities of materials while focusing on the creativity and skills of the builder .	另外一個例子我想提一下她的專案計畫的目的是要強調材料的表現特質 , 同時專注在建造者的創意和技能上 。
electronics kits are very powerful in that they teach us how things work , but the constraints inherent in their design influence the way we learn .	電子設備在他們教導我們事情是如何運作的 , 但在他們的設計中 , 限制影響了我們學習的方式 。
so hannah's approach , on the other hand , is to formulate a series of techniques for creating unusual objects that free us from predesigned constraints by teaching us about the materials themselves .	另一方面 , 漢娜的做法是建立一系列的技術來創造出非凡的物體 , 讓我們免於規劃限制 , 來教導我們關於物質本身的知識 。
so amongst hannah's many impressive experiments , this is one of my favorites .	在漢娜許多令人印象深刻的實驗中 , 這是我最喜歡的之一 。
[ " paper speakers " ] what we're seeing here is just a piece of paper with some copper tape on it connected to an mp3 player and a magnet .	我們現在看到的只是一張紙 , 上面有一些銅膠帶 , 連接mp3播放器和磁鐵 。
so based on the research by marcelo coelho from mit , hannah created a series of paper speakers out of a wide range of materials from simple copper tape to conductive fabric and ink .	所以 , 根據麻省理工學院marcelocollho的研究漢娜創造了一系列的紙喇叭 , 從簡單的銅膠帶到導電的布料和墨水 。
just like jordan and so many other makers , hannah published her recipes and allows anyone to copy and reproduce them .	就像約旦和許多其他製造家漢娜發表了她的食譜讓任何人複製並複製它們
but paper electronics is one of the most promising branches of material science in that it allows us to create cheaper and flexible electronics .	但紙本電子產品是材料科學中最有希望的分支之一 , 讓我們能創造出更便宜、更靈活的電子產品 。
so hannah's artisanal work , and the fact that she shared her findings , opens the doors to a series of new possibilities that are both aesthetically appealing and innovative .	所以漢娜的手工工藝作品 , 她分享她的發現 , 開啟了一系列新的可能性 , 這兩者都是美學和創新的 。
so the interesting thing about makers is that we create out of passion and curiosity , and we are not afraid to fail .	創作者有趣的地方是 , 我們用熱情和好奇心來創造 , 我們不害怕失敗 。
we often tackle problems from unconventional angles , and , in the process , end up discovering alternatives or even better ways to do things .	我們經常從非傳統的角度來處理問題 , 在過程中 , 我們最後會發現替代方案 , 或甚至更好的做事方式 。
so the more people experiment with materials , the more researchers are willing to share their research , and manufacturers their knowledge , the better chances we have to create technologies that truly serve us all .	所以 , 越多人實驗材料 , 研究人員願意分享他們的研究 , 製造他們的知識 , 我們就越有機會創造出真正服務我們所有人的科技 。
so i feel a bit as ted nelson must have when , in the early 1970s , he wrote , " you must understand computers now . "	我覺得tednelson在1970年代早期 , 他寫道: 「 你現在必須要了解電腦 。 」
back then , computers were these large mainframes only scientists cared about , and no one dreamed of even having one at home .	那時 , 電腦是這些巨大的主題 , 只有科學家在乎 , 甚至沒有人夢到家裡 。
so it's a little strange that i'm standing here and saying , " you must understand smart materials now . "	我站在這裡說有點奇怪 , 說: 「 你現在必須要了解智慧型材料 。 」
just keep in mind that acquiring preemptive knowledge about emerging technologies is the best way to ensure that we have a say in the making of our future .	請記住 , 取得新興科技的知識是確保我們未來有所說的最好方法 。
when we drive , we get into a glass bubble , lock the doors and press the accelerator , relying on our eyes to guide us even though we can only see the few cars ahead of and behind us . but what if cars could share data with each other about their position and velocity , and use predictive models to calculate the safest routes for everyone on the road ? jennifer healey imagines a world without accidents .	當我們開車時 , 我們會進入玻璃泡泡 , 鎖住門 , 壓住加速器 , 仰賴我們的眼睛 , 指引我們即使我們只能看到前面的幾輛車子後面的車子 。 但如果車子能彼此分享資料 , 關於他們的位置和速度 , 以及用預測模型 , 來計算路上每個人最安全的路線 , 珍妮佛瑞想像一個沒有意外的世界 。
jennifer healey: if cars could talk , accidents might be avoidable	珍妮:如果汽車可以說話 , 意外可能會被避免 。
let's face it: driving is dangerous .	讓我們面對現實:開車是危險的 。
it's one of the things that we don't like to think about , but the fact that religious icons and good luck charms show up on dashboards around the world betrays the fact that we know this to be true .	這是我們不喜歡思考的一件事 , 但宗教圖標和好運魅力卻出現在世界各地 , 背叛我們所知道的事實 。
car accidents are the leading cause of death in people ages 16 to 19 in the united states leading cause of death and 75 percent of these accidents have nothing to do with drugs or alcohol .	車禍是美國十六歲到十九歲的主要死因 , 導致死亡和百分之七十五的意外和毒品或酒精無關 。
no one can say for sure , but i remember my first accident .	沒人能肯定地說 , 但我記得我第一次意外 。
i was a young driver out on the highway , and the car in front of me , i saw the brake lights go on .	我當時是開高速公路的年輕駕駛 , 前面的車子 , 我看到了煞車燈 。
i'm like , " okay , all right , this guy is slowing down , i'll slow down too . "	我說: 「 好吧 , 好吧 , 這傢伙正在慢下來 , 我也會慢下來 。 」
i step on the brake .	我踏上煞車 。
but no , this guy isn't slowing down .	但不 , 這個人並沒有慢下來 。
this guy is stopping , dead stop , dead stop on the highway .	這傢伙正在停車 , 停車 , 停在高速公路上 。
it was just going 65 to zero ?	只剩65到零嗎 ?
i slammed on the brakes .	我踩煞車 。
i felt the abs kick in , and the car is still going , and it's not going to stop , and i know it's not going to stop , and the air bag deploys , the car is totaled , and fortunately , no one was hurt .	我感覺到abs被踢進去 , 車子還沒停下來 , 我知道它不會停下來 , 空氣袋被部署了 , 很幸運的是 , 沒有人受傷 。
but i had no idea that car was stopping , and i think we can do a lot better than that .	但我完全不知道那輛車正在停止 , 我認為我們可以做得更好 。
i think we can transform the driving experience by letting our cars talk to each other .	我想我們可以改變開車的體驗 , 讓車子彼此交談 。
i just want you to think a little bit about what the experience of driving is like now .	我只是想讓各位思考一下駕駛的體驗 。
get into your car . close the door . you're in a glass bubble .	走進你的車裡 , 關上門 。 你在玻璃泡裡 。
you can't really directly sense the world around you .	你無法直接感受周遭的世界 。
you're in this extended body .	你在這個延伸的身體裡 。
you're tasked with navigating it down partiallyseen roadways , in and amongst other metal giants , at superhuman speeds .	你的任務是將它導向一部分的路道 , 在另一條金屬巨人 , 以超人的速度來導航 。
okay ? and all you have to guide you are your two eyes .	好嗎 ? 你只要指引你兩隻眼睛 。
okay , so that's all you have , eyes that weren't really designed for this task , but then people ask you to do things like , you want to make a lane change , what's the first thing they ask you do ?	好吧 , 這就是你們所有的眼睛 , 不是為這個任務設計而設計的 , 但接著人們請你做這樣的事 , 你想要做出改變 , 他們問你的第一件事是什麼 ?
take your eyes off the road . that's right .	把你的眼睛從路上拿走 , 沒錯 。
stop looking where you're going , turn , check your blind spot , and drive down the road without looking where you're going .	別再去看你在哪裡 , 轉 , 看你的盲點 , 開車到路上 , 不看你在哪裡 。
you and everyone else . this is the safe way to drive .	你和其他人 。 這是安全的開車方式 。
why do we do this ? because we have to , we have to make a choice , do i look here or do i look here ?	為什麼我們要這樣做 ? 因為我們必須做出選擇 , 看看這裡 , 還是看這裡 ?
and usually we do a fantastic job picking and choosing what we attend to on the road .	通常我們會做一件很棒的工作 , 選擇我們在路上的目的 。
but occasionally we miss something .	但偶爾我們忽略了一些事情 。
occasionally we sense something wrong or too late .	偶爾我們會覺得錯了或太晚了 。
in countless accidents , the driver says , " i didn't see it coming . "	無數次的意外 , 司機說: 「 我沒看到它來了 。 」
and i believe that . i believe that .	我相信這一點 。 我相信這一點 。
we can only watch so much .	我們只能看得太多 。
but the technology exists now that can help us improve that .	但現有的科技 , 可以協助我們改善它 。
in the future , with cars exchanging data with each other , we will be able to see not just three cars ahead and three cars behind , to the right and left , all at the same time , bird's eye view , we will actually be able to see into those cars .	未來 , 隨著車子彼此交換資料 , 我們不僅能看到三輛車後面三輛 , 左右兩輛 , 同時 , 鳥的眼睛 , 我們還能看到這些車子 。
we will be able to see the velocity of the car in front of us , to see how fast that guy's going or stopping .	我們將能夠看見前方的車子的速度 , 看看那傢伙的車子的速率或停車 。
if that guy's going down to zero , i'll know .	如果那個人要降到零 , 我就會知道 。
and with computation and algorithms and predictive models , we will be able to see the future .	有了計算、演算法和預測模型 , 我們就能看見未來 。
you may think that's impossible .	你可能會認為這是不可能的 。
how can you predict the future ? that's really hard .	你要如何預測未來 ? 這真的很難 。
actually , no . with cars , it's not impossible .	實際上 , 沒有車子 , 不是不可能的 。
cars are threedimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity .	汽車是三維的物體 , 擁有固定的位置和速度 。
they travel down roads .	他們沿著道路往下走 。
often they travel on prepublished routes .	他們經常旅行在預先發表的路上 。
it's really not that hard to make reasonable predictions about where a car's going to be in the near future .	要預測在不久的將來 , 車子會在哪裡做出合理的預測 。
even if , when you're in your car and some motorcyclist comes bshoom ! 85 miles an hour down , lanesplitting i know you've had this experience that guy didn't " just come out of nowhere . "	即使 , 當你在車裡 , 有些摩托車騎士來了 , 每小時85英哩 , 車道化 , 我知道你有過這樣的經驗 , 那個人沒有 「 出櫃 」 。
that guy's been on the road probably for the last half hour .	那個人在路上 , 可能已經有半小時了 。
right ? i mean , somebody's seen him .	對吧 ? 我的意思是 , 有人看過他 。
ten , 20 , 30 miles back , someone's seen that guy , and as soon as one car sees that guy and puts him on the map , he's on the map position , velocity , good estimate he'll continue going 85 miles an hour .	十、二十、三十英里後 , 有人看過那個人 , 只要一輛車看到那個人 , 把他放在地圖上 , 他在地圖上 , 速度 , 估計他會每小時八十五英哩 。
you'll know , because your car will know , because that other car will have whispered something in his ear , like , " by the way , five minutes , motorcyclist , watch out . "	你們會知道 , 因為你的車會知道 , 因為另一輛車會在他的耳朵上說: 「 順便一提 , 五分鐘 , 摩托車手 , 注意 。 」
you can make reasonable predictions about how cars behave .	你可以對汽車的行為做出合理的預測 。
i mean , they're newtonian objects .	我的意思是 , 它們是牛頓的物體 。
that's very nice about them .	這對他們來說很棒 。
so how do we get there ?	所以 , 我們要如何做到 ?
we can start with something as simple as sharing our position data between cars , just sharing gps .	我們可以從簡單的開始 , 如分享車子間的位置資料 , 分享gps 。
if i have a gps and a camera in my car , i have a pretty precise idea of where i am and how fast i'm going .	如果我的車子裡有gps和攝影機 , 我有一個很精確的概念 , 關於我在哪裡 , 以及我要走多快 。
with computer vision , i can estimate where the cars around me are , sort of , and where they're going .	有了電腦視覺 , 我可以估計我身邊的車子在哪裡 , 有點像是在哪裡 。
and same with the other cars .	其他車子也一樣 。
they can have a precise idea of where they are , and sort of a vague idea of where the other cars are .	他們可以精確地知道自己在哪裡 , 有點像是對其他車子的看法 。
what happens if two cars share that data , if they talk to each other ?	如果兩個車子共享這些資料 , 如果它們彼此交談 , 會發生什麼事 ?
i can tell you exactly what happens .	我可以告訴你會發生什麼事 。
professor bob wang and his team have done computer simulations of what happens when fuzzy estimates combine , even in light traffic , when cars just share gps data , and we've moved this research out of the computer simulation and into robot test beds that have the actual sensors that are in cars now on these robots: stereo cameras , gps , and the twodimensional laser range finders that are common in backup systems .	bobwang教授和他的團隊做了電腦模擬 , 模擬當模擬混合物時 , 甚至在電動車共享gps的資料 , 我們把這個研究從電腦模擬中移到機器人的模擬床上 , 這些感應器現在都在這些機器人身上:stereo攝影機、gps、gps , 和二維雷射測量器在後備系統中普遍存在 。
we also attach a discrete shortrange communication radio , and the robots talk to each other .	我們還附著一個短距離通訊的無線電機 , 機器人彼此交談 。
when these robots come at each other , they track each other's position precisely , and they can avoid each other .	當這些機器人彼此聚在一起時 , 它們會精確地追蹤彼此的位置 , 它們能避免彼此 。
we're now adding more and more robots into the mix , and we encountered some problems .	我們現在在混合中加入越來越多的機器人 , 我們遇到了一些問題 。
one of the problems , when you get too much chatter , it's hard to process all the packets , so you have to prioritize , and that's where the predictive model helps you .	其中一個問題是 , 當你太過量的聊天時 , 很難處理所有的包裝 , 所以你得要先順序 , 這就是預測模型協助你的地方 。
if your robot cars are all tracking the predicted trajectories , you don't pay as much attention to those packets .	如果你的機械車都在追蹤預測軌跡 , 你就不會注意到那些包裝 。
you prioritize the one guy who seems to be going a little off course .	你把一個看起來有點偏離軌道的人優先化了 。
that guy could be a problem .	那傢伙可能是個問題 。
and you can predict the new trajectory .	你可以預測新的軌跡 。
so you don't only know that he's going off course , you know how .	所以你不只知道他會去上課 , 你知道的 。
and you know which drivers you need to alert to get out of the way .	你知道你需要警告哪個駕駛才能離開 。
and we wanted to do how can we best alert everyone ?	我們想怎麼讓大家更警醒 ?
how can these cars whisper , " you need to get out of the way ? "	這些車子怎麼可能會竊竊竊竊竊私語: 「 你需要走出路嗎 ? 」
well , it depends on two things: one , the ability of the car , and second the ability of the driver .	嗯 , 它取決於兩件事:一 , 汽車的能力 , 第二 , 駕駛的能力 。
if one guy has a really great car , but they're on their phone or , you know , doing something , they're not probably in the best position to react in an emergency .	如果一個人有很棒的車子 , 但他們在手機上 , 或者 , 你知道 , 做點什麼 , 他們可能不是在緊急情況中做出最好的反應 。
so we started a separate line of research doing driver state modeling .	所以 , 我們開始了分開的研究 , 做司機狀態模型 。
and now , using a series of three cameras , we can detect if a driver is looking forward , looking away , looking down , on the phone , or having a cup of coffee .	現在 , 用了一系列的三台攝影機 , 我們可以偵測到駕駛的前方 , 向下看 , 向下看 , 或用一杯咖啡 。
we can predict the accident and we can predict who , which cars , are in the best position to move out of the way to calculate the safest route for everyone .	我們可以預測意外 , 且我們可以預測誰 , 哪一輛車最好的位置 , 不用去計算每個人最安全的路線 。
fundamentally , these technologies exist today .	基本上 , 這些技術今天就存在了 。
i think the biggest problem that we face is our own willingness to share our data .	我認為我們面臨的最大問題是我們自願分享我們的資料 。
i think it's a very disconcerting notion , this idea that our cars will be watching us , talking about us to other cars , that we'll be going down the road in a sea of gossip .	我認為這是個很讓人不安的概念 , 我們的車子會看著我們 , 談到其他車子 , 我們會走下路 , 走進八卦 。
but i believe it can be done in a way that protects our privacy , just like right now , when i look at your car from the outside , i don't really know about you .	但我相信 , 可以用一種方式來保護我們的隱私 , 就像現在一樣 , 當我從外面看你的車 , 我並不知道你 。
if i look at your license plate number , i don't really know who you are .	如果我看你的牌牌數 , 我並不知道你是誰 。
i believe our cars can talk about us behind our backs .	我相信我們的車子可以在我們的背後談論我們 。
and i think it's going to be a great thing .	我認為這將會是一件很棒的事 。
i want you to consider for a moment if you really don't want the distracted teenager behind you to know that you're braking , that you're coming to a dead stop .	我希望你們花點時間思考一下 , 如果你不想要你身後的那些分心的青少年 , 知道你在煞車 , 你即將停下來 。
by sharing our data willingly , we can do what's best for everyone .	透過意願分享我們的數據 , 我們就能為每個人做最好的事 。
so let your car gossip about you .	所以 , 讓你的車子向你走一遍 。
it's going to make the roads a lot safer .	它會讓道路更安全 。
x prize founder peter diamandis talks about how he helped stephen hawking fulfill his dream of going to space by flying together into the upper atmosphere and experiencing weightlessness at zero g .	xprize創辦人peterdamandis談到他如何協助史蒂芬霍金實現太空的夢想 , 透過一起飛進上層大氣層 , 體驗到零g的無重量 。
business , flight , science , short talk , space , technology , universe	商業、飛行、科學、簡短的談話、太空、科技、宇宙、宇宙 。
peter diamandis on stephen hawking in zero g	peterdamandis在stephenhenhawking在0guk工作中 , 採用stephenhenhawings
those of you who know me know how passionate i am about opening the space frontier .	認識我的人知道我對打開太空前線的熱情有多大 。
so when i had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity , it was incredible .	所以當我有機會給世界地心引力專家-無重力的體驗 , 這實在是太了不起了 。
and i want to tell you that story .	我想告訴各位這個故事 。
i first met him through the archon x prize for genomics .	我第一次見到他是基因組學的原子獎 。
it's a competition we're holding , the second x prize , for the first team to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days .	這是我們所舉辦的競賽 , 第二個xprize , 最早的團隊在十天內將100個人類基因組排列 。
we have something called the genome 100 100 individuals we're sequencing as part of that .	我們有所謂的基因組100個我們將其定序為其中之一 。
craig venter chairs that event .	克萊格•凡特的椅子 。
and i met professor hawking , and he said his dream was to travel into space .	我遇到了霍金教授 , 他說他的夢想是走進太空 。
and i said , " i can't take you there , but i can take you into weightlessness into zerog .	我說: 「 我不能帶你到那裡 , 但我可以帶你進入無重力的狀態 , 進入零 。
and he said , on the spot , " absolutely , yes . "	他說: 「 絕對 , 是的 。 」
well , the only way to experience zerog on earth is actually with parabolic flight , weightless flight .	地球上唯一能體驗到零的辦法就是飛行 , 沒有重量的飛行 。
you take an airplane , you fly over the top , you're weightless for 25 seconds .	你搭飛機 , 飛過頂部 , 沒重25秒 。
come back down , you weigh twice as much .	回來 , 重量是兩倍 。
you do it again and again .	你一而再再而三地做 。
you can get eight , 10 minutes of weightlessness how nasa's trained their astronauts for so long .	你可以得到8、10分鐘無重力的無重力 , 長久以來美國太空總署訓練他們的太空人 。
we set out to do this .	我們開始做這件事 。
it took us 11 years to become operational .	我們花了11年才開始營運 。
and we announced that we were going to fly stephen hawking .	我們宣佈我們要飛史蒂芬霍金 。
we had one government agency and one company aircraft operator say , you're crazy , don't do that , you're going kill the guy .	我們有一間政府機構和一間公司飛機操作員說 , 你瘋了 , 不要這樣做 , 你要殺了那個人 。
and he wanted to go .	他想要去 。
we worked hard to get all the permissions .	我們努力取得所有許可 。
and six months later , we sat down at kennedy space center .	六個月後 , 我們坐在甘迺迪太空中心 。
we had a press conference , we announced our intent to do one zerog parabola , give him 25 seconds of zerog .	我們有一場記者會議 , 我們宣佈我們打算做一個零和的拋物面 , 給他25秒的零 。
and if it went really well , we might do three parabolas .	如果一切順利的話 , 我們可能會做三個拋物面鏡 。
well , we asked him why he wanted to go up and do this .	我們問他為什麼要上去做這件事 。
and what he said , for me , was very moving .	他說 , 對我來說 , 是非常動人的 。
he said , " life on earth is at an everincreasing risk of being wiped out by disaster . . .	他說: 「 地球上的生命在不斷增加的危機上被災難所摧毀......
i think the human race doesn't have a future if it doesn't go into space .	我認為如果它沒有進入太空 , 人類就沒有未來 。
i therefore want to encourage public interest in space . "	所以我想鼓勵公眾對太空的興趣 。 」
we took him out to the kennedy space center , up inside the nasa vehicle , into the back of the zerog airplane .	我們把他帶到甘迺迪太空中心 , 在nasa的車子裡 , 帶到零號飛機後面 。
we had about 20 people who made donations we raised $150 , 000 in donations for children's charities who flew with us .	我們有20個人捐款 , 我們募到150 , 000美金給兒童慈善機構 。
a few tedsters here .	這裡有幾個tedster 。
we set up a whole er .	我們設立了一個全部的伺服器 。
we had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane .	我們有四個急診室醫生和兩位護士登上飛機
we were monitoring his po2 of his blood , his heart rate , his blood pressure .	我們在監控他的血液、他的心跳、他的血壓 。
we had everything all set in case of an emergency ; god knows , you don't want to hurt this worldrenowned expert .	我們所有的事都發生在緊急情況下 , 上帝知道 , 你不想傷害這個世界知名的專家 。
we took off from the shuttle landing facility , where the shuttle takes off and lands .	我們從shutle登陸機構起飛 , 太空梭起飛 , 降落地 。
and my partner byron lichtenberg and i carefully suspended him into zerog .	我的另一半是lichtenberg , 我非常小心地把他暫停成零 。
once he was there , [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like .	一旦他去了 , 讓他體驗到無重力的真實性 。
and after that first parabola , you know , the doc said everything is great . he was smiling , and we said go .	在第一個拋物夾之後 , 你知道的 , 醫生說一切都很棒 。 他在微笑 , 我們說去了 。
so we did a second parabola .	所以我們做了第二個拋物線 。
we actually floated an apple in homage to sir isaac newton because professor hawking holds the same chair at cambridge that isaac newton did .	事實上 , 我們讓艾薩克•牛頓爵士擔任一個蘋果 , 因為霍金教授在艾薩克•牛頓的劍橋舉辦了同樣的椅子 。
and we did a fourth , and a fifth and a sixth .	我們做了第四個 , 第五個第六個 。
and a seventh and an eighth .	第七次和第八次 。
and this man does not look like a 65yearold wheelchairbound man .	這個人看起來不像一個65歲的輪椅人物 。
he was so happy .	他非常開心 。
we are living on a precious jewel , and it's during our lifetime that we're moving off this planet .	我們活在珍貴的珠寶寶上 , 在我們這星球的一生中 , 我們正在離開這個星球 。
please join us in this epic adventure .	請加入我們這次史詩般的冒險 。
medical animator david bolinsky presents 3 minutes of stunning animation that show the bustling life inside a cell .	醫療動畫大衛•布林斯基在3分鐘內展現出令人驚訝的動畫 , 讓細胞內部的破裂生命 。
design , entertainment , film , health , medicine , science , technology , visualizations	設計、娛樂、電影、健康、醫學、科技、視覺化、視覺化、視覺化、電影、健康、醫療、醫學、科學、技術、視覺化、視覺化的
david bolinsky animates a cell	大衛•布林斯基會動畫一個細胞 。
i'm a medical illustrator , and i come from a slightly different point of view .	我是醫學插圖師 , 我來自稍微不同的觀點 。
i've been watching , since i grew up , the expressions of truth and beauty in the arts and truth and beauty in the sciences .	自從我長大以來 , 我一直在注意到 , 在科學中 , 藝術和美麗的表情 。
and while these are both wonderful things in their own right they both have very wonderful things going for them truth and beauty as ideals that can be looked at by the sciences and by math are almost like the ideal conjoined twins that a scientist would want to date .	雖然他們自己的權利 , 這些都是美好的事物 , 他們都有很美好的事物 , 把他們看待真相和美 , 看得見科學和數學 , 幾乎就像是理想的雙胞胎 , 科學家會想要約會 。
these are expressions of truth as awefull things , by meaning they are things you can worship .	這些是真實的表達 , 作為令人敬畏的事物 , 意思是 , 這些是你可以崇拜的事物 。
they are ideals that are powerful . they are irreducible .	它們是強而有力的理想 。 它們是無法引導的 。
they are unique . they are useful sometimes , often a long time after the fact .	它們是獨一無二的 , 有時是有用的 , 通常在事實後很長一段時間 。
and you can actually roll some of the pictures now , because i don't want to look at me on the screen .	你現在可以翻一些照片 , 因為我不想在螢幕上看著我 。
truth and beauty are things that are often opaque to people who are not in the sciences .	真相和美經常對那些不在科學領域的人不太友善 。
they are things that describe beauty in a way that is often only accessible if you understand the language and the syntax of the person who studies the subject in which truth and beauty is expressed .	它們是用來形容美麗的方式 , 通常只能在你了解語言和研究主題的同義詞時 , 才會被表達出來的 。
if you look at the math , e=mc squared , if you look at the cosmological constant , where there's an anthropic ideal , where you see that life had to evolve from the numbers that describe the universe these are things that are really difficult to understand .	如果你看數學e=mc平方 , 如果你看宇宙學的常數 , 那裡有一個人類理想 , 在那裡你會發現生命必須從描述宇宙的數字演化出來 , 這些是很難理解的 。
and what i've tried to do since i had my training as a medical illustrator since i was taught animation by my father , who was a sculptor and my visual mentor i wanted to figure out a way to help people understand truth and beauty in the biological sciences by using animation , by using pictures , by telling stories so that the things that are not necessarily evident to people can be brought forth , and can be taught , and can be understood .	自從我受過醫學插畫的訓練 , 自從我被教導父親的動畫 , 他是雕塑家 , 我的視覺導師 , 我想找出方法來幫助人們了解生物科學的真相和美麗 , 藉由動畫 , 用圖片說故事 , 讓人們不見得會被引導 , 並且可以被教導 。
students today are often immersed in an environment where what they learn is subjects that have truth and beauty embedded in them , but the way they're taught is compartmentalized and it's drawn down to the point where the truth and beauty are not always evident .	現今 , 學生常被沉浸在一個環境中 , 他們學到的是真相和美麗的主題 , 但他們被教導的方式卻被比較了 , 被吸引到事實和美 , 並非總是顯而易見的 。
it's almost like that old recipe for chicken soup where you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone .	就像是雞湯的老食譜 , 把雞煮沸 , 直到味道消失 。
we don't want to do that to our students .	我們不想讓學生這樣做 。
so we have an opportunity to really open up education .	所以我們有機會真正開放教育 。
and i had a telephone call from robert lue at harvard , in the molecular and cellular biology department , a couple of years ago . he asked me if my team and i would be interested and willing to really change how medical and scientific education is done at harvard .	我在哈佛大學的robertlue打來一通電話 , 在幾年前的分子和細胞生物系裡 。 他問我 , 我的團隊是否有興趣 , 我願意改變哈佛大學的醫學和科學教育方式 。
so we embarked on a project that would explore the cell that would explore the truth and beauty inherent in molecular and cellular biology so that students could understand a larger picture that they could hang all of these facts on .	所以我們開始進行一項計畫 , 來探索細胞 , 來探索分子和細胞生物學中的真相和美 , 讓學生能了解他們能記住的所有事實 。
they could have a mental image of the cell as a large , bustling , hugely complicated city that's occupied by micromachines .	他們可能有對細胞的心理影像作為一個大型、繁忙的城市 , 一個由微機組成的複雜城市 。
and these micromachines really are at the heart of life .	這些微機械的確是生命的核心 。
these micromachines , which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over , are selfdirected , powerful , precise , accurate devices that are made out of strings of amino acids .	這些微機械 , 正是奈米科技專家世界各地的電視節目 , 自主、強而有力、精確、精確的裝置 , 由胺基酸組成 。
and these micromachines power how a cell moves .	這些微機械是如何移動的 。
they power how a cell replicates . they power our hearts .	它們驅動細胞如何複製 , 驅動我們的心臟 。
they power our minds .	它們驅動了我們的心智 。
and so what we wanted to do was to figure out how we could make this story into an animation that would be the centerpiece of biovisions at harvard , which is a website that harvard has for its molecular and cellular biology students that will in addition to all the textual information , in addition to all the didactic stuff put everything together visually , so that these students would have an internalized view of what a cell really is in all of its truth and beauty , and be able to study with this view in mind , so that their imaginations would be sparked , so that their passions would be sparked and so that they would be able to go on and use these visions in their head to make new discoveries and to be able to find out , really , how life works .	所以我們想要做的是找出我們如何把這個故事變成動畫 , 將是哈佛大學生物觀測中心的主題 , 這個網站是哈佛為它分子和細胞生物學的學生 , 加上所有的文字信息 , 再加上所有的視覺資料 , 讓這些學生們對它的真實和美有內在的視角 , 並且能夠研究它們的視角 , 這樣他們就能發現它們的生命 。
so we set out by looking at how these molecules are put together .	所以我們開始研究這些分子是如何組合在一起的 。
we worked with a theme , which is , you've got macrophages that are streaming down a capillary , and they're touching the surface of the capillary wall , and they're picking up information from cells that are on the capillary wall , and they are given this information that there's an inflammation somewhere outside , where they can't see and sense .	我們和一個主題合作 , 也就是說 , 你有巨噬細胞 , 它們在微血管壁上流下 , 它們碰觸到微血管壁的表面 , 它們在微血管壁上接收到來自細胞的資訊 , 它們得到的資訊是外面的發炎 , 它們看不見、感覺不到 。
but they get the information that causes them to stop , causes them to internalize that they need to make all of the various parts that will cause them to change their shape , and try to get out of this capillary and find out what's going on .	但他們得到的資訊 , 會讓他們停止 , 造成他們內化 , 讓他們需要製造出各種各樣的零件 , 來改變他們的形狀 , 試著離開這個微血管 , 找出發生了什麼事 。
so these molecular motors we had to work with the harvard scientists and databank models of the atomically accurate molecules and figure out how they moved , and figure out what they did .	所以這些分子馬達 , 我們必須和哈佛科學家和資料庫合作 , 研究原子正確分子的資料模型 , 找出它們如何移動 , 找出它們做了什麼 。
and figure out how to do this in a way that was truthful in that it imparted what was going on , but not so truthful that the compact crowding in a cell would prevent the vista from happening .	想辦法用真相的方式來做這件事 , 讓事情變得更真實 , 但事實並非如此 , 牢房裡的精密擁擠 , 會阻止病毒的發生 。
and so what i'm going to show you is a threeminute reader's digest version of the first aspect of this film that we produced . it's an ongoing project that's going to go another four or five years .	接下來我要給你們看的是一個三分鐘的讀者的消化版本 , 我們製作的這部電影的第一個面向 。 這是一個持續進行的專案計畫 , 將要花四到五年 。
and i want you to look at this and see the paths that the cell manufactures these little walking machines , they're called kinesins that take these huge loads that would challenge an ant in relative size .	我希望你們看看這張圖 , 看到細胞製造這些小機器的路徑 , 它們被稱為 「 松樹 」 , 將大量的螞蟻大小挑戰相對大小的螞蟻 。
run the movie , please .	請播放電影 。
but these machines that power the inside of the cells are really quite amazing , and they really are the basis of all life because all of these machines interact with each other .	但這些能驅動細胞內部的機器是相當驚人的 , 它們真的是所有生命的基礎 , 因為這些機器彼此互動 。
they pass information to each other .	他們互相傳遞資訊 。
they cause different things to happen inside the cell .	它們會導致細胞內發生不同的事 。
and the cell will actually manufacture the parts that it needs on the fly , from information that's brought from the nucleus by molecules that read the genes .	細胞會製造它需要在果蠅身上所需的部分 , 來自從細胞核中取出的分子 , 以閱讀基因的分子 。
no life , from the smallest life to everybody here , would be possible without these little micromachines .	沒有生命 , 從最小的生命到這裡的每個人 , 沒有這些微機械 。
in fact , it would really , in the absence of these machines , have made the attendance here , chris , really quite sparse .	事實上 , 在沒有這些機器的情況下 , 它會讓這裡的出席率 , 克里斯 , 真的很大 。
this is the fedex delivery guy of the cell .	這是細胞的fedex遞送者 。
this little guy is called the kinesin , and he pulls a sack that's full of brand new manufactured proteins to wherever it's needed in the cell whether it's to a membrane , whether it's to an organelle , whether it's to build something or repair something .	這個小傢伙被稱為 「 海底 」 , 他把一個包裝滿全新的製造蛋白質到細胞所需的任何地方 , 不論是用到細胞膜 , 不論是用來製造或修補東西 。
and each of us has about 100 , 000 of these things running around , right now , inside each one of your 100 trillion cells .	我們每一個人身上都有大約十萬個這種東西在四處奔跑 , 就在你一百兆個細胞中 。
so no matter how lazy you feel , you're not really intrinsically doing nothing .	所以 , 不論你有多懶惰 , 你本質上都沒有做任何事 。
so what i want you to do when you go home is think about this , and think about how powerful our cells are .	所以當你回家時 , 我希望你們想想這一點 , 想想我們的細胞有多強大 。
and think about some of the things that we're learning about cellular mechanics .	想想看我們所學到的細胞機械 。
once we figure out all that's going on and believe me , we know almost a percent of what's going on once we figure out what's going on , we're really going to be able to have a lot of control over what we do with our health , with what we do with future generations , and how long we're going to live .	一旦我們搞懂了一切 , 相信我 , 我們幾乎知道發生了什麼事 , 我們真的能夠對我們的健康有很大的控制權 , 和我們未來的世代做些什麼 , 以及我們能活多久 。
and hopefully we'll be able to use this to discover more truth , and more beauty .	希望我們能用它來發掘更多真相 , 更美麗 。
but it's really quite amazing that these cells , these micromachines , are aware enough of what the cell needs that they do their bidding .	令人驚訝的是 , 這些細胞 , 這些微機能 , 已經足以察覺到細胞所需的作用 。
they work together . they make the cell do what it needs to do .	他們一起工作 。 他們讓細胞做它需要做的事 。
and their working together helps our bodies huge entities that they will never see function properly .	他們一起工作 , 協助我們的身體龐大的實體 , 他們永遠不會看到適當的功能 。
enjoy the rest of the show . thank you .	享受這場演出的其他演出 。 謝謝 。
becky blanton planned to live in her van for a year and see the country , but when depression set in and her freelance job ended , her camping trip turned into homelessness . in this intimate talk , she describes her experience of becoming one of america's working homeless .	beckyb蘭頓計劃在她的車裡住了一年 , 看到這個國家 , 但當憂鬱症開始 , 她的難民工作結束時 , 她的營地變成無家可歸的無家可歸者 。 在這個親密的演講中 , 她描述了她成為美國無家可歸者的經驗 。
adventure , happiness , life , personal growth , poverty , social change , society , storytelling	冒險、快樂、人生、個人的成長、貧窮、社會變遷、故事故事、故事、故事、故事、故事、故事、故事、社會、社會、故事、故事、故事、故事、故事、
becky blanton: the year i was homeless	beckyb蘭頓:那一年我是無家可歸的那一年 , 我是無家可歸的 。
i'm a writer and a journalist , and i'm also an insanely curious person , so in 22 years as a journalist , i've learned how to do a lot of new things .	我是作家和記者 , 我也是一位好奇的人 , 所以身為記者 , 我學會了很多新事 。
and three years ago , one of the things i learned how to do was to become invisible .	三年前 , 我學到的其中一件事就是變成看不見的 。
i became one of the working homeless .	我成為工作無家可歸者之一 。
i quit my job as a newspaper editor after my father died in february of that same year , and decided to travel .	我辭掉我父親在同一年二月去世的報紙編輯工作 , 決定去旅行 。
his death hit me pretty hard .	他的死亡讓我非常難受 。
and there were a lot of things that i wanted to feel and deal with while i was doing that .	我在做這件事時 , 會想去感受和處理很多事情 。
i've camped my whole life . and i decided that living in a van for a year to do this would be like one long camping trip .	我終其一生都在營運 。 我決定住在車裡住了一年 , 去做這個會是一趟漫長的露營旅程 。
so i packed my cat , my rottweiler and my camping gear into a 1975 chevy van , and drove off into the sunset , having fully failed to realize three critical things .	我把貓、腐爛的推動器和營地裝備打包 , 送到1975年的雪佛利車上 , 開到日落 , 完全沒有意識到三件重要的事 。
one: that society equates living in a permanent structure , even a shack , with having value as a person .	第一:社會將生活在一個永久的結構中 , 甚至是一個回憶 , 作為一個人有價值 。
two: i failed to realize how quickly the negative perceptions of other people can impact our reality , if we let it .	第二:我沒有意識到 , 其他人的負面感知有多快 , 如果我們允許它來影響我們的現實 。
three: i failed to realize that homelessness is an attitude , not a lifestyle .	第三:我沒意識到 , 無家可歸是一種態度 , 而非生活方式 。
at first , living in the van was great .	一開始 , 住在車裡是很棒的 。
i showered in campgrounds . i ate out regularly .	我在營地裡洗澡 , 我常常吃東西 。
and i had time to relax and to grieve .	我有時間放鬆和悲傷 。
but then the anger and the depression about my father's death set in .	但接著 , 我父親的死亡集團 , 憤怒和憂鬱 。
my freelance job ended . and i had to get a fulltime job to pay the bills .	我的自由工作終止了 。 我必須得到全職的工作來支付帳單 。
what had been a really mild spring turned into a miserably hot summer .	當時很溫和的春天 , 變成了很糟糕的夏天 。
and it became impossible to park anywhere without being very obvious that i had a cat and a dog with me , and it was really hot .	在任何地方 , 公園都不可能 , 很明顯地 , 我有一隻貓 , 一隻狗 , 和我在一起 , 真的很熱 。
the cat came and went through an open window in the van .	貓來了 , 穿過車窗的窗戶 。
the doggy went into doggy day care .	狗狗進入了產婦照顧 。
whenever i could , i used employee showers in office buildings and truck stops .	每當我能做到時 , 我都會在辦公大樓裡使用員工洗澡 , 卡車停下來 。
or i washed up in public rest rooms .	或者我在公共房間洗澡 。
nighttime temperatures in the van rarely dropped below 80 degrees fahrenheit , making it difficult or impossible to sleep .	夜班的車溫度很少下降到華氏80度 , 使得睡覺困難或無法睡覺 。
food rotted in the heat .	食物在暖氣中轉動 。
ice in my ice chest melted within hours , and it was pretty miserable .	數小時之內 , 冰層會融化 , 很悲慘 。
i couldn't afford to find an apartment , or couldn't afford an apartment that would allow me to have the rottweiler and the cat .	我負擔不起去找公寓 , 或不負擔得起的公寓 , 讓我能有推特威爾和貓 。
and i refused to give them up , so i stayed in the van .	我拒絕放棄 , 所以我留在車上 。
and when the heat made me too sick to walk the 50 feet to the public restroom outside my van at night , i used a bucket and a trash bag as a toilet .	當暖氣讓我不舒服地走50英尺 , 走在我車外的公共廁所時 , 我用桶和垃圾袋當廁所 。
when winter weather set in , the temperatures dropped below freezing . and they stayed there .	當冬天的天氣出現時 , 溫度降到冰凍之下 , 它們留在那裡 。
and i faced a whole new set of challenges .	我面對了一系列新的挑戰 。
i parked a different place every night so i would avoid being noticed and hassled by the police .	我每天晚上停車 , 避免被警察察察察察察察察察察察察察察察察察察覺 。
i didn't always succeed .	我並不總是成功 。
but i felt out of control of my life .	但我覺得自己無法控制我的人生 。
and i don't know when or how it happened , but the speed at which i went from being a talented writer and journalist to being a homeless woman , living in a van , took my breath away .	我不知道何時或何時會發生 , 但我的速度從一個有才華的作家和記者變成一個無家可歸的女人 , 住在車裡 , 帶著我的呼吸 。
i hadn't changed . my i . q . hadn't dropped .	我還沒改變 , 我的智商還沒下降 。
my talent , my integrity , my values , everything about me remained the same .	我的才華、我的完整性、我的價值觀 , 所有關於我的事都一樣 。
but i had changed somehow .	但我已經改變了 。
i spiraled deeper and deeper into a depression .	我更深入憂鬱 。
and eventually someone referred me to a homeless health clinic .	最終有人把我稱為無家可歸的健康診所 。
and i went . i hadn't bathed in three days .	我去了 。 三天後我還沒洗澡 。
i was as smelly and as depressed as anyone in line .	我和排隊中的任何人一樣感到沮喪 。
i just wasn't drunk or high .	我只是不喝醉或喝醉 。
and when several of the homeless men realized that , including a former university professor , they said , " you aren't homeless . why are you really here ? "	當數個無家可歸的人意識到 , 包括以前的大學教授 , 他們說: 「 你不是無家可歸 。 你為什麼在這裡 ? 」
other homeless people didn't see me as homeless , but i did .	其他無家可歸的人沒把我視為無家可歸 , 但我做到了 。
then the professor listened to my story and he said , " you have a job . you have hope .	接著 , 教授傾聽我的故事 , 他說: 「 你有工作 , 你有希望 。
the real homeless don't have hope . "	真正的無家可歸沒有希望 。 」
a reaction to the medication the clinic gave me for my depression left me suicidal . and i remember thinking , " if i killed myself , no one would notice . "	診所給我憂鬱症的反應讓我有自殺傾向 。 我記得在想: 「 如果我殺了我自己 , 沒人注意到 。 」
a friend told me , shortly after that , that she had heard that tim russert , a nationally renowned journalist , had been talking about me on national t . v .	不久後 , 一位朋友告訴我 , 她聽說提姆•羅斯 , 全國知名的記者 , 一直在談論我國家電視 。
an essay i'd written about my father , the year before he died , was in tim's new book .	我寫的一篇文章是關於我父親的 , 在他死前一年 , 是在提姆的新書中 。
and he was doing the talk show circuit . and he was talking about my writing .	他在演說電路 。 他在談我的寫作 。
and when i realized that tim russert , former moderator of " meet the press , " was talking about my writing , while i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , i started laughing .	當我意識到timrustt , 前主持 「 見面新聞 」 的陳述者 , 談到我的寫作 , 當我在walmart停車場 , 我開始笑 。
i started laughing because it got to the point where , was i a writer , or was i a homeless woman ?	我開始笑是因為我是作家 , 還是無家可歸的女人 ?
so i went in the bookstore . and i found tim's book .	所以我去了書店 。 我找到了提姆的書 。
and i stood there . and i reread my essay .	我站在那裡 , 重新讀我的短文 。
because i was a writer .	因為我是個作家 。
i was a writer .	我是作家 。
shortly after that i moved back to tennessee .	在那之後不久 , 我搬回田納西 。
i alternated between living in a van and couch surfing with friends .	我和朋友住在貨車和沙發衝浪之間的區別 。
and i started writing again .	我又開始寫作了 。
by the summer of the following year i was a working journalist .	隔年夏天 , 我是一名工作記者 。
i was winning awards . i was living in my own apartment .	我在贏得獎項 。 我住在自己的公寓裡 。
i was no longer homeless .	我不再無家可歸 。
and i was no longer invisible .	我不再被看不見了 。
thousands of people work full and parttime jobs , and live in their cars .	數以千計的人都在工作 , 有時工作 , 住在他們的車裡 。
but society continues to stigmatize and criminalize living in your vehicle or on the streets .	但社會持續汙名和犯罪化生活在你的車子或街道上 。
so the homeless , the working homeless , primarily remain invisible .	所以 , 無家可歸者 , 工作無家可歸者 , 主要是隱形的 。
but if you ever meet one , engage them , encourage them , and offer them hope .	但如果你曾經見過他們 , 讓他們參與 , 鼓勵他們 , 並提供他們希望 。
the human spirit can overcome anything if it has hope .	人類精神可以克服任何事情 , 如果它有希望的話 。
and i'm not here to be the poster girl for the homeless .	我不是來這裡為無家可歸的海報 。
i'm not here to encourage you to give money to the next panhandler you meet .	我不是來這裡鼓勵你們把錢給下一個乞討者 。
but i am here to tell you that , based on my experience , people are not where they live , where they sleep , or what their life situation is at any given time .	但我來這裡要告訴各位 , 根據我的經驗 , 人們不是住在他們居住的地方 , 他們在哪裡睡覺 , 或是任何時間生活的情況 。
three years ago i was living in a van in a walmart parking lot , and today i'm speaking at ted .	三年前 , 我住在一輛walmart停車場 , 今天我在ted演講 。
hope always , always finds a way . thank you .	希望總是找到方法 。 謝謝 。
at tedxchange , thailand's " mr . condom , " mechai viravaidya , walks us through the country's bold plan to raise its standard of living , starting in the 1970s . first step: population control . and that means a lot of frank , funny and very effective talk about condoms .	在tedxchange , 泰國的 「 保險套先生 」 、 「 墨拉威亞先生 」 , 帶著我們走過國家大膽的計劃 , 提升生活的標準 , 第一步:人口控制 。 這意味著很多富蘭克、好笑且非常有效的討論保險套 。
culture , global issues , health , population , science	文化、全球議題、健康、人口、科學、科學、
mechai viravaidya: how mr . condom made thailand a better place	墨西亞:保險套先生如何讓泰國成為更好的地方 。
now , when i was a young man 40 years ago , the country was very , very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty .	四十年前 , 當我還是個年輕人時 , 這個國家非常非常貧窮 , 生活在貧窮之中 。
we decided to do something about it , but we didn't begin with a welfare program or a poverty reduction program .	我們決定做點什麼 , 但我們不是從福利計畫開始 , 或減少貧窮計畫 。
but we began with a familyplanning program , following a very successful maternal child health activity , sets of activities .	但我們從一個家庭規劃計畫開始 , 遵循一個非常成功的孕育兒童健康活動 , 一組活動 。
so basically , no one would accept family planning if their children didn't survive .	基本上 , 沒有人會接受家庭規劃 , 如果他們的孩子沒有存活 ,
so the first step: get to the children , get to the mothers , and then follow up with family planning .	所以 , 第一步:帶到孩子們 , 去找母親 , 然後跟著家人規劃 。
not just child mortality alone , you need also family planning .	不只是兒童死亡率 , 你還需要家庭規劃 。
now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it .	現在 , 讓我帶各位回到我們為什麼需要這麼做 。
in my country , that was the case in 1974 .	在我的國家 , 那是1974年的案例 。
seven children per family tremendous growth at 3 . 3 percent .	家庭平均每人7個孩子的成長率是3.3% 。
there was just no future .	沒有未來 。
we needed to reduce the population growth rate .	我們需要減少人口成長率 。
so we said , " let's do it . "	所以我們說: 「 咱們來做吧 。 」
the women said , " we agree . we'll use pills , but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills , " and we had very , very few doctors .	女性說: 「 我們同意 , 我們會使用藥丸 , 但我們需要醫生來開藥 。 」 我們非常非常非常少的醫生 。
we didn't take no as an answer ; we took no as a question .	我們不把答案當作一個答案 , 我們不把問題當作一個問題 。
we went to the nurses and the midwives , who were also women , and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill .	我們去了護士和助產士 , 他們也是女人 , 做了一個很棒的工作 , 解釋如何使用藥丸 。
that was wonderful , but it covered only 20 percent of the country .	那很棒 , 但它佔了全國的百分之二十 。
what do we do for the other 80 percent leave them alone and say , " well , they're not medical personnel . "	我們為其他80%的人做些什麼 , 讓他們獨自一人說: 「 嗯 , 他們不是醫療人員 。 」
no , we decided to do a bit more .	不 , 我們決定再做一點 。
so we went to the ordinary people that you saw .	所以我們去找一般人 。
actually , below that yellow sign i wish they hadn't wiped that , because there was " cocacola " there .	其實 , 在那黃色標誌下面我希望他們還沒聽過 , 因為那裡有 「 可口可樂 」 。
we were so much bigger than cocacola in those days .	當時我們比可口可樂還要大很多 。
and no difference , the people they chose were the people we chose .	沒有差別 , 他們選的人是我們選的人 。
they were wellknown in the community , they knew that customers were always right , and they were terrific , and they practiced their family planning themselves .	他們在社區中很熟悉 , 他們知道客戶總是對的 , 他們很棒 , 他們親自練習自己的家庭規劃 。
so they could supply pills and condoms throughout the country , in every village of the country .	所以他們可以在全國各地提供藥丸和保險套 。
so there we are . we went to the people who were seen as the cause of the problem to be the solution .	所以 , 我們就在那裡 。 我們去找被視為是解決問題的人們 。
wherever there were people and you can see boats with the women , selling things here's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives wherever you find people , you'll find contraceptives in thailand .	不論在哪裡 , 都有人和女人買船 , 賣東西是浮動的市場 , 賣香蕉和螃蟹 , 還有避孕用品 , 不論你在泰國找到人 , 你都會找到避孕品 。
and then we decided , why not get to religion because in the philippines , the catholic church was pretty strong , and thai people were buddhist .	然後我們決定 , 為什麼不去宗教 , 因為在菲律賓 , 天主教教會很強壯 , 泰國人是佛教徒 。
we went to them and they said , " look , could you help us ? "	我們去找他們 , 他們說: 「 看 , 你能幫我們嗎 ? 」
i'm there the one in blue , not the yellow holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to sprinkle holy water on pills and condoms for the sanctity of the family .	我是藍色的 , 不是黃色的 , 手上拿著一碗神聖的水 , 來灑水在藥丸上和保險套上 。
and this picture was sent throughout the country .	這張照片被送到全國各地 。
so some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves .	所以有些村落的僧侶也在做同樣的事 。
and the women were saying , " no wonder we have no sideeffects .	女人說: 「 難怪我們沒有副作用 。
it's been blessed . "	它被祝福了 。 」
that was their perception .	那是他們的感知 。
and then we went to teachers .	然後我們去找老師 。
you need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place .	你需要每個人試著提供任何讓人類變得更好的地方 。
so we went to the teachers .	所以我們去找老師 。
over a quarter of a million were taught about family planning with a new alphabet a , b for birth , c for condom , i for iud , v for vasectomy .	超過25萬人被教導要用新的字母a、b、c出生、保險套、大腸切除術 。
and then we had a snakes and ladders game , where you throw dice .	然後我們有了蛇和雷達比賽 , 你扔掉了 。
if you land on anything profamily planning , you move ahead .	如果你降落在熟悉的規劃上 , 你就先往前走 。
like , " mother takes the pill every night .	比如說: 「 媽媽每天要吃藥 。
very good , mother . move ahead .	非常好的 , 母親 , 向前走 。
uncle buys a condom . very good , uncle . move ahead .	叔叔買保險套 。 非常好 , 叔叔 。 搬到前面 。
uncle gets drunk , doesn't use condom . come back , start again . "	叔叔喝醉 , 不用保險套 , 回來 , 再來 。 」
again , education , class entertainment .	同樣的 , 教育 , 階級娛樂 。
and the kids were doing it in school too .	孩子們也在學校這麼做 。
we had relay races with condoms , we had children's condomblowing championship .	我們有保險套的競賽 , 我們有兒童保險套的冠軍 。
and before long , the condom was know as the girl's best friend .	不久後 , 保險套是女孩最好的朋友 。
in thailand , for poor people , diamonds don't make it so the condom is the girl's best friend .	在泰國 , 對窮人來說 , 鑽石不會變成這樣 , 所以保險套是女孩最好的朋友 。
we introduced our first microcredit program in 1975 , and the women who organized it said , " we only want to lend to women who practice family planning .	我們在1975年介紹了第一個微型貸款計畫 , 組織計畫的女性說: 「 我們只想借助實踐家庭規劃的女性 。
if you're pregnant , take care of your pregnancy .	如果你懷孕了 , 照顧懷孕 。
if you're not pregnant , you can take a loan out from us . "	如果你沒有懷孕 , 你可以從我們身上借貸 。 」
and that was run by them .	而他們就是這樣運作的 。
and after 35/36 years , it's still going on .	35/36年後 , 它還在進行中 。
it's a part of the village development bank ; it's not a real bank , but it's a fund microcredit .	它是村落發展銀行的一部分 ; 它不是真正的銀行 , 而是基金的小額貸款 。
and we didn't need a big organization to run it it was run by the villagers themselves .	我們不需要一個大型組織來經營它 , 由村民們自己經營 。
and you probably hardly see a thai man there , it's always women , women , women , women .	你可能很難看到一位泰國男士 , 總是女人、女人、女人、女人 。
and then we thought we'd help america , because america's been helping everyone , whether they want help or not .	然後我們以為我們會幫助美國 , 因為美國對所有人都很有幫助 , 不管他們是否想要幫助 。
and this is on the fourth of july .	這是七月四日的狀況 。
we decided to provide vasectomy to all men , but in particular , american men to the front of the queue , right up to the ambassador's residence during his [unclear] .	我們決定為所有人提供真空的切除術 , 尤其是 , 美國人在隊伍的前面 , 就在大使的前面 。
and the hotel gave us the ballroom for it very appropriate room .	飯店給了我們一間房間 , 給了我們非常適合的房間 。
and since it was near lunch time , they said , " all right , we'll give you some lunch .	他們說: 「 好吧 , 我們會給你一些午餐時間 。
of course , it must be american cola .	當然 , 它一定是美國的可樂 。
you get two brands , coke and pepsi .	有兩個品牌 , 可口可樂和百事可樂 。
and then the food is either hamburger or hotdog . "	然後食物不是漢堡或熱狗 。 」
and i thought a hotdog will be more symbolic .	我以為熱狗比較有象徵意義 。
and here is this , then , young man called willy bohm who worked for the usaid .	這裡是一位年輕人 , 叫做威利•博姆 , 他為美國援助工作 。
obviously , he's had his vasectomy because his hotdog is half eaten , and he was very happy .	很明顯 , 他有很大的選擇 , 因為他的熱狗半吃了一半 , 且他很開心 。
it made a lot of news in america , and it angered some people also .	它在美國製造了很多新聞 , 它也激怒了一些人 。
i said , " don't worry . come over and i'll do the whole lot of you . "	我說: 「 別擔心 , 過來 , 我會做你們很多人 。 」
in all this thing , from seven children to 1 . 5 children , population growth rate of 3 . 3 to 0 . 5 .	在這一切中 , 從七個孩童到一百五個孩童 , 人口增長率是3.3到0.5 。
you could call it the cocacola approach if you like it was exactly the same thing .	你可以稱它為可口可樂 , 如果你喜歡它是完全一樣的 。
i'm not sure whether cocacola followed us , or we followed cocacola , but we're good friends .	我不確定可口可樂是否跟隨我們 , 或跟隨可口可樂 , 但我們是好朋友 。
and so that's the case of everyone joining in .	這就是大家加入的案例 。
we didn't have a strong government . we didn't have lots of doctors .	我們沒有強大的政府 , 我們沒有很多醫生 。
but it's everybody's job who can change attitude and behavior .	但每個人都能改變態度和行為 。
then aids came along and hit thailand , and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight aids .	接著 , 愛滋病來到泰國 , 我們必須停止做很多好事來對抗愛滋病 。
but unfortunately , the government was in denial , denial , denial .	但不幸的是 , 政府被否認、否認、否認 。
so our work wasn't affected .	所以我們的作品沒有受到影響 。
so i thought , " well , if you can't go to the government , go to the military . "	所以我想: 「 嗯 , 如果你不能去政府 , 去軍隊 。 」
so i went to the military and asked to borrow 300 radio stations .	所以我去了軍隊 , 要求借300間無線電站 。
they have more than the government , and they've got more guns than the government .	他們有比政府更多的槍 , 比政府更多的槍 。
so i asked them , could they help us in our fight against hiv .	所以我問他們 , 他們能否協助我們對抗愛滋病毒 。
and after i gave them statistics , they said , " yes . okay . you can use all the radio stations , television stations . "	在我給他們統計之後 , 他們說: 「 好的 。 你可以用所有的電台、電視台 。 」
and that's when we went onto the airwaves .	這就是我們登上飛機的時候 。
and then we got a new prime minister soon after that .	然後我們很快就得到了新首相 。
and he said , " mechai , could you come and join ? "	他說: 「 梅西 , 你能來加入嗎 ? 」
he asked me in because he liked my wife a lot .	他問我是因為他很喜歡我太太 。
so i said , " okay . "	所以我說: 「 好吧 。 」
he became the chairman of the national aids committee and increased the budget fiftyfold .	他成為國家愛滋病委員會的主席 , 並增加五十倍的預算 。
every ministry , even judges , had to be involved in aids education everyone and we said the public , institutions , religious institutions , schools everyone was involved .	每個部門、甚至法官 , 都必須參與愛滋病教育 , 每一個人 , 我們都說 , 公眾、機構、宗教機構、學校都參與其中 。
and here , every media person had to be trained for hiv .	這裡 , 每一個媒體人員都必須接受愛滋病的訓練 。
and we gave every station half a minute extra for advertising to earn more money .	我們提供每一間車站半分鐘的廣告 , 來賺更多的錢 。
so they were happy with that .	所以他們很開心 。
and then aids education in all schools , starting from university .	然後所有學校的愛滋病教育 , 從大學開始 。
and these are high school kids teaching high school kids .	這些是高中生在教導高中生 。
and the best teachers were the girls , not the boys , and they were terrific .	最好的老師是女生 , 不是男生 , 她們很棒 。
and these girls who go around teaching about safe sex and hiv were known as mother theresa .	這些環繞著教導安全性愛滋病毒的女孩 , 被稱為 「 阿雷莎媽媽 」 。
and then we went down one more step .	然後我們再走下一步 。
these are primary school kids third , fourth grade going to every household in the village , every household in the whole of thailand , giving aids information and a condom to every household , given by these young kids .	這些是第一所學校三年級的孩童 , 四年級 , 在村子裡的每個家庭 , 整個泰國的每個家庭 , 提供愛滋病資訊和保險套給每個家庭 , 給這些孩子 。
and no parents objected , because we were trying to save lives , and this was a lifesaver .	沒有父母反對 , 因為我們試著拯救生命 , 這是個救命 。
and we said , " everyone needs to be involved . "	我們說: 「 每個人都需要參與 。 」
so you have the companies also realizing that sick staff don't work , and dead customers don't buy .	所以你也有公司意識到生病的員工不行 , 而死去的客戶卻不買 。
so they all trained .	所以他們都受過訓練 。
and then we have this captain condom , with his harvard mba , going to schools and night spots .	然後我們就有了這位船長保險套 , 他的哈佛大學mba , 去上學和夜班 。
and they loved him . you need a symbol of something .	他們愛他 , 你需要一些東西的象徵 。
in every country , every program , you need a symbol , and this is probably the best thing he's ever done with his mba .	在每個國家 , 每個專案 , 你都需要一個符號 , 這可能是他對mba做過最好的事 。
and then we gave condoms out everywhere on the streets everywhere , everywhere .	接著 , 我們把保險套放在街上 , 到處都有 。
in taxis , you get condoms .	在計程車中 , 你會得到保險套 。
and also , in traffic , the policemen give you condoms our " cops and rubbers " programs .	此外 , 在交通中 , 警察會給你保險套 , 我們的 「 警察 」 計畫 。
so , can you imagine new york policemen giving out condoms ?	所以 , 你能想像紐約警察發放保險套嗎 ?
of course i can . and they'd enjoy it immensely ; i see them standing around right now , everywhere .	當然 , 我可以 。 他們會很享受它 , 我看到它們現在站在各處 。
imagine if they had condoms , giving out to all sorts of people .	想像一下 , 如果他們有保險套 , 給了各種人 。
and then , new change , we had hair bands , clothing and the condom for your mobile phone during the rainy season .	接著 , 新的改變 , 我們有髮帶、衣服 , 以及你在雨季的手機保險套 。
and these were the condoms that we introduced .	這些是我們提出的保險套 。
one says , " weapon of mass protection . "	一個說: 「 大規模保護的武器 。 」
we found you know somebody here was searching for the weapon of mass destruction , but we have found the weapon of mass protection: the condom .	我們發現這裡有人在尋找大規模毀滅性的武器 , 但我們發現了大規模防禦武器:保險套 。
and then it says here , with the american flag , " don't leave home without it . "	上面寫著 , 美國國旗上面寫著: 「 別離開家園 。 」
but i have some to give out afterward .	但我有一些時間可以放棄 。
but let me warn you , these are thaisized , so be very careful .	但讓我警告各位 , 這些是泰國化的 , 非常小心 。
and so you can see that condoms can do so many things .	你可以看到保險套可以做很多事 。
look at this i gave this to al gore and to bill senior also .	看看這個 , 我給了高爾和高爾 。
stop global warming ; use condoms .	停止全球暖化、使用保險套 。
and then this is the picture i mentioned to you the weapon of mass protection .	我剛剛提到的這張照片是大規模保護的武器 。
and let the next olympics save some lives .	讓下一次奧運拯救了一些生命 。
why just run around ?	為什麼要跑來跑去 ?
and then finally , in thailand we're buddhist , we don't have a god , so instead , we say , " in rubber we trust . "	最後 , 在泰國 , 我們是佛教徒 , 我們沒有神 , 所以我們會說: 「 在橡膠中 , 我們相信 。 」
so you can see that we added everything to our endeavor to make life better for the people .	所以你可以看到 , 我們把一切都加到我們的努力 , 讓人民的生活變得更好 。
we had condoms in all the refrigerators in the hotels and the schools , because alcohol impairs judgment .	我們在旅館和學校都有保險套 , 因為酒精障評斷 。
and then what happened ?	然後發生了什麼事 ?
after all this time , everybody joined in .	在這段時間後 , 每個人都加入了 。
according to the u . n . , new cases of hiv declined by 90 percent , and according to the world bank , 7 . 7 million lives were saved .	根據聯合國 , 愛滋病的新案例減少了90% , 根據世界銀行 , 770萬人的生命被拯救 。
otherwise there wouldn't be many thais walking around today .	否則 , 今天不會有很多泰國走來走去 。
so it just showed you , you could do something about it .	所以它只顯示了你 , 你可以為它做點什麼 。
90 percent of the funding came from thailand .	90%的資金來自泰國 。
there was political commitment , some financial commitment , and everybody joined in the fight .	有政治承諾 , 有些財務承諾 , 每個人都加入了戰役 。
so just don't leave it to the specialists and doctors and nurses .	所以不要留給專家、醫生、護士 。
we all need to help .	我們都需要幫助 。
and then we decided to help people out of poverty , now that we got aids somewhat out of the way this time , not with government alone , but in cooperation with the business community .	接著 , 我們決定要幫助人們脫離貧窮 , 現在我們得到了愛滋病 , 這次不是單單靠政府 , 而是和商業社群合作 。
because poor people are business people who lack business skills and access to credit .	因為窮人是商人 , 他們缺乏商業技能 , 無法取得信用 。
those are the things to be provided by the business community .	這些是商業界提供的 。
we're trying to turn them into barefoot entrepreneurs , little business people .	我們試著把他們變成赤腳企業家 , 小商業人士 。
the only way out of poverty is through business enterprise .	逃離貧窮唯一的方法就是透過企業 。
so , that was done .	所以 , 就這樣完成了 。
the money goes from the company into the village via treeplanting .	這筆錢從公司變成了村落 , 變成了樹木 。
it's not a free gift .	這不是免費的禮物 。
they plant the trees , and the money goes into their microcredit fund , which we call the village development bank .	他們種植樹木 , 錢進入他們的小額貸款基金 , 我們稱之為鄉村發展銀行 。
everybody joins in , and they feel they own the bank , because they have brought the money in .	每個人都加入 , 他們覺得自己擁有銀行 , 因為他們把錢帶進來 。
and before you can borrow the money , you need to be trained .	在你借錢之前 , 你需要被訓練 。
and we believe if you want to help the poor , those who are living in poverty , access to credit must be a human right .	我們相信 , 如果你想要幫助窮人 , 住在貧窮中的人 , 能夠取得信用 , 就必須要是人權 。
access to credit must be a human right .	信用資本必須是人權 。
otherwise they'll never get out of poverty .	否則他們永遠不會脫離貧困 。
and then before getting a loan , you must be trained .	在取得貸款之前 , 你必須要受過訓練 。
here's what we call a " barefoot mba , " teaching people how to do business so that , when they borrow money , they'll succeed with the business .	我們稱之為 「 赤腳mba 」 , 教導人們如何做生意 , 這樣 , 當他們借錢時 , 他們就會成功 。
these are some of the businesses: mushrooms , crabs , vegetables , trees , fruits , and this is very interesting nike ice cream and nike biscuits ; this is a village sponsored by nike .	這些是一些生意:蘑菇、螃蟹、蔬菜、樹木、水果 , 這是非常有趣的nike冰淇淋和nike餅乾 ; 這是一個由nike贊助的村莊 。
they said , " they should stop making shoes and clothes .	他們說: 「 他們應該停止製作鞋子和衣服 。
make these better , because we can afford them . "	做得更好 , 因為我們負擔得起 。 」
and then we have silk , thai silk .	然後我們有絲、泰國絲 。
now we're making scottish tartans , as you can see on the left , to sell to all people of scottish ancestors .	現在我們正在做蘇格蘭紋身 , 左邊可以看到 , 賣給所有蘇格蘭祖先 。
so anyone sitting in and watching tv , get in touch with me .	所以 , 任何人坐著看電視 , 跟我聯絡 。
and then this is our answer to starbucks in thailand " coffee and condoms . "	這是我們在泰國的星巴克《咖啡和保險套》的答案 。
see , starbucks you awake , we keep you awake and alive .	你看 , 星巴克你醒來了 , 我們讓你醒著 , 活著 。
can you imagine , at every starbucks that you can also get condoms ?	你能想像嗎 , 在每個你能得到保險套的星巴克裡 ?
you can order your condoms with your with your cappuccino .	你可以用你的卡普奇諾來訂購保險套 。
and then now , finally in education , we want to change the school as being underutilized into a place where it's a lifelong learning center for everyone .	最後 , 在教育上 , 我們想要改變學校 , 把學校當作不被利用的地方 , 讓每個人成為終身學習中心 。
we call this our schoolbased integrated rural development .	我們稱之為學校基於整合的農村發展 。
and it's a center , a focal point for economic and social development .	它是一個經濟和社會發展的中心點 。
redo the school , make it serve the community needs .	重新設計學校 , 讓它能服務社區的需求 。
and here is a bamboo building all of them are bamboo .	這裡是竹子建築全部都是竹子
this is a geodesic dome made of bamboo .	這是由竹子組成的地底圓頂 。
and i'm sure buckminster fuller would be very , very proud to see a bamboo geodesic dome .	我相信巴克敏斯特•富勒會非常非常驕傲地看到竹子圓頂 。
and we use vegetables around the school ground , so they raise their own vegetables .	我們在學校的地面上使用蔬菜 , 讓它們養活自己的蔬菜 。
and then , finally , i firmly believe , if we want the mdgs to work the millennium development goals we need to add family planning to it .	最後 , 我堅定相信 , 如果我們希望mdgs可以完成千禧年發展目標 , 我們需要加入家庭計畫 。
of course , child mortality first and then family planning everyone needs family planning service it's underutilized .	當然 , 孩童死亡率首先 , 接著是家庭規劃 , 每個人都需要家庭規劃服務 。
so we have now found the weapon of mass protection .	所以我們現在已經找到了大規模保護的武器 。
and we also ask the next olympics to be involved in saving lives .	我們也要求下一次奧運參與拯救生命 。
and then , finally , that is our network .	最後 , 這就是我們的網路 。
and these are our thai tulips .	這些是我們的泰國鬱金香 。
thank you very much indeed .	非常謝謝各位 。
your smartphone may feel like a friend but a true friend would give you a smile once in a while . at ted2013 , keller rinaudo demos romo , the smartphonepowered mini robot who can motor along with you on a walk , slide you a cup of coffee across the table , and react to you with programmable expressions .	你的智慧手機可能會感覺像個朋友 , 但一個真正的朋友 , 一陣子會給你一個微笑一陣子 。 在ted2013 , kellerrinaudoderomo , 和你一起散步的智能機器人 , 投影片給你一杯咖啡 , 橫跨桌子 , 和你互動 。
keller rinaudo: a mini robot powered by your phone	凱勒•里納多:一個迷你機器人是由你的手機供給你的 。
so just by a show of hands , how many of you all have a robot at home ?	舉個例子 , 在座有多少人家裡都有機器人 ?
not very many of you .	很多人都沒有 。
okay . and actually of those hands , if you don't include roomba how many of you have a robot at home ?	好的 。 實際上 , 如果你不包含室巴你們有多少人在家裡有機器人 ?
that's the problem that we're trying to solve at romotive that i and the other 20 nerds at romotive are obsessed with solving .	這就是我們在romotive努力解決的問題 , 我和其他20個在romotive迷戀的怪胎 , 都迷上了解決問題 。
so we really want to build a robot that anyone can use , whether you're eight or 80 .	所以我們真的想要製造一個任何人都可以使用的機器人 , 不管你是8或80歲 。
and as it turns out , that's a really hard problem , because you have to build a small , portable robot that's not only really affordable , but it has to be something that people actually want to take home and have around their kids .	結果發現 , 這是個非常困難的問題 , 因為你必須建造一個小型可攜式的機器人 , 不僅是可以負擔得起的 , 而且它必須是人們真正想要帶回家 , 帶著孩子去的地方 。
this robot can't be creepy or uncanny .	這個機器人不能很詭異或不可思議 。
he should be friendly and cute .	他應該是友善的、可愛的 。
romo's a robot that uses a device you already know and love your iphone as his brain .	romo是一個用你已經知道的裝置來愛你的iphone是他的大腦 。
and by leveraging the power of the iphone's processor , we can create a robot that is wifi enabled and computer visioncapable for 150 bucks , which is about one percent of what these kinds of robots have cost in the past .	透過透過iphone處理器的力量 , 我們就能創造一個可以在150美金上實現的機器人 , 機器人的視覺化成本大約是過去的150美金之一 。
when romo wakes up , he's in creature mode .	當romo醒來時 , 他在創造模式中 。
so he's actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face .	所以他實際上是用裝置上的攝影機來追蹤我的臉 。
if i duck down , he'll follow me .	如果我倒下 , 他會跟著我 。
he's wary , so he'll keep his eyes on me .	他很溫暖 , 所以他會盯著我看 。
if i come over here , he'll turn to follow me .	如果我來這裡 , 他會轉身跟著我 。
if i come over here he's smart .	如果我來這裡 , 他很聰明 。
and if i get too close to him , he gets scared just like any other creature .	如果我太靠近他 , 他就會嚇到和其他生物一樣 。
so in a lot of ways , romo is like a pet that has a mind of his own .	所以 , 在很多方面 , romo就像個寵物 , 擁有自己的想法 。
thanks , little guy .	謝謝 , 小傢伙 。
and if i want to explore the world uhoh , romo's tired if i want to explore the world with romo , i can actually connect him from any other ios device .	如果我想要探索世界──呃 , romo已經累了──如果我想要用romo來探索這個世界 , 我真的可以將他與任何其他ios設備連結 。
so here's the ipad .	這是ipad 。
and romo will actually stream video to this device .	羅摩會將影片串流到這個裝置上 。
so i can see everything that romo sees , and i get a robot'seyeview of the world .	所以我可以看到romo看到的一切 , 我得到了一個機器人的世界觀 。
now this is a free app on the app store , so if any of you guys had this app on your phones , we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together .	這是應用程式的免費應用程式 , 所以 , 如果你們有人在手機上有這個應用程式 , 我們現在可以把機器人和玩遊戲一起分享 。
so i'll show you really quickly , romo actually he's streaming video , so you can see me and the entire ted audience .	我很快地給你們看romo , 他正在串流影片 , 所以你們可以看到我和整個ted觀眾 。
if i get in front of romo here .	如果我來到羅摩這裡 。
and if i want to control him , i can just drive .	如果我想要控制他 , 我就能開車 。
so i can drive him around , and i can take pictures of you .	所以 , 我可以隨意開車 , 拍下你們的照片 。
i've always wanted a picture of a 1 , 500person ted audience .	我總是想要一張1500名ted觀眾的照片 。
so i'll snap a picture .	我來拍一張照片 。
and in the same way that you scroll through content on an ipad , i can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device .	和你在ipad上瀏覽內容的方式一樣 , 我可以調整裝置上的攝影機的角度 。
so there are all of you through romo's eyes .	所以在座所有人都透過romo的眼睛 。
and finally , because romo is an extension of me , i can express myself through his emotions .	最後 , 因為romo是我的延伸 , 我可以透過他的情緒來表達自己 。
so i can go in and i can say let's make romo excited .	所以 , 我可以進去 , 我可以說 , 讓我們來做romo興奮 。
but the most important thing about romo is that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive .	但關於romo最重要的是 , 我們想要創造完全直覺的東西 。
you do not have to teach someone how to drive romo .	你不需要教別人如何駕駛romo 。
in fact , who would like to drive a robot ?	事實上 , 誰會想要開機器人 ?
thank you , scott .	謝謝 , 史考特 。
and even cooler , you actually don't have to be in the same geographic location as the robot to control him .	更酷的是 , 你不需要像機器人在同一個地理位置來控制他 。
so he actually streams twoway audio and video between any two smart devices .	所以他在任何兩個聰明的裝置中 , 實際上是雙向音頻和影像 。
so you can log in through the browser , and it's kind of like skype on wheels .	所以你可以在瀏覽器上登入 , 有點像是在輪子上的天空 。
so we were talking before about telepresence , and this is a really cool example .	所以 , 我們之前談到遠端監聽 , 這是個很酷的例子 。
you can imagine an eightyearold girl , for example , who has an iphone , and her mom buys her a robot .	你可以想像一個八歲的女孩 , 例如 , 她有iphone , 她媽媽買了一台機器人 。
that girl can take her iphone , put it on the robot , send an email to grandma , who lives on the other side of the country .	那個女孩可以拿她的iphone , 把它放在機器人上 , 寄送一封電子郵件給國內另一邊的祖母 。
grandma can log into that robot and play hideandgoseek with her granddaughter for fifteen minutes every single night , when otherwise she might only be able to get to see her granddaughter once or twice a year .	祖母可以登入那個機器人 , 和她的孫子一起玩隱藏糖果 , 每晚十五分鐘 , 否則她只能看到她的孫子一年一次或兩次 。
so those are a couple of the really cool things that romo can do today .	這些是romo今天能做的一些很酷的事 。
but i just want to finish by talking about something that we're working on in the future .	但我只想談談我們未來正在努力的事物 。
this is actually something that one of our engineers , dom , built in a weekend .	這其實是其中一個工程師 , 多姆 , 在一個週末建造的 。
it's built on top of a google open framework called blockly .	它是建立在谷歌開放的架構上 , 叫做 「 街區 」 。
this allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic code and create any behavior for this robot you want .	這讓你可以拖動這些海豹編碼的積木 , 為你想要的機器人創造任何行為 。
you do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for romo .	你不需要知道如何寫程式來為romo創造一個行為 。
and you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser , which is what you see romo doing on the left .	你可以模擬瀏覽器的行為 , 也就是左邊的romo在做的 。
and then if you have something you like , you can download it onto your robot and execute it in real life , run the program in real life .	如果你有你喜歡的東西 , 你可以把它下載到你的機器人上 , 在現實生活中執行 , 執行程式 。
and then if you have something you're proud of , you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world .	如果你感到自豪的是 , 你可以和世界上所有擁有機器人的人分享 。
so all of these wifi–enabled robots actually learn from each other .	所有這些wi-fi的機器人 , 都能互相學習 。
the reason we're so focused on building robots that everyone can train is that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal .	我們之所以專注於建造一個人都能訓練的機器人 , 是因為我們認為在個人機器人中 , 最有吸引力的用途是個人的 。
they change from person to person .	他們從人變成人 。
so we think that if you're going to have a robot in your home , that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination .	所以 , 我們認為 , 如果你在家裡有機器人 , 機器人應該是你自己的想像力的表現 。
so i wish that i could tell you what the future of personal robotics looks like .	所以我希望我能告訴你個人機器人的未來是什麼樣子 。
to be honest , i have no idea .	老實說 , 我不知道 。
but what we do know is that it isn't 10 years or 10 billion dollars or a large humanoid robot away .	但我們確實知道 , 它不是10年或100億美元 , 或一個大型的人類機器人 。
the future of personal robotics is happening today , and it's going to depend on small , agile robots like romo and the creativity of people like yourselves .	個人機器人的未來正在發生 , 它將會取決於小型、敏捷的機器人 , 像是romo , 以及像你們這樣的人的創造力 。
so we can't wait to get you all robots , and we can't wait to see what you build .	所以 , 我們等不及要讓你們所有機器人 , 我們等不及要看你建造什麼 。
author and activist isabel allende discusses women , creativity , the definition of feminism and , of course , passion in this talk .	作者和激進分子伊莎貝爾會討論女性、創意、女性主義的定義 , 當然 , 還有這場演說中的熱情 。
entertainment , global issues , love , parenting , storytelling , women , world cultures	娛樂、全球議題、愛、養育、說故事、女性、世界文化、文化、文化、
isabel allende tells tales of passion	伊莎貝爾•阿言德說出關於熱情的故事 。
thank you so much . it's really scary to be here among the smartest of the smart .	非常謝謝你們 。 非常可怕 , 在這裡是聰明最聰明的人之一 。
i'm here to tell you a few tales of passion .	我在這裡要告訴各位幾個關於熱情的故事 。
there's a jewish saying that i love .	有句猶太人說我很愛 。
what is truer than truth ? answer: the story .	什麼是真的 ? 答案是:故事 。
i'm a storyteller . i want to convey something that is truer than truth about our common humanity .	我是一個說故事的人 。 我想要傳達一個比我們共同的人性更真實的東西 。
all stories interest me , and some haunt me until i end up writing them .	所有故事都對我感興趣 , 有些令我不安 , 直到我最後寫下它們 。
certain themes keep coming up: justice , loyalty , violence , death , political and social issues , freedom .	某些主題不斷出現:正義、忠誠、暴力、死亡、政治、社會議題、自由 。
i'm aware of the mystery around us , so i write about coincidences , premonitions , emotions , dreams , the power of nature , magic .	我注意到周遭的神秘 , 所以我寫了有關巧合、正義、情緒、夢想、大自然的力量、魔法的力量 。
in the last 20 years i have published a few books , but i have lived in anonymity until february of 2006 , when i carried the olympic flag in the winter olympics in italy .	在過去20年 , 我發表了幾本書 , 但直到2006年二月 , 當我在義大利的冬季奧運會帶著奧運國旗 。
that made me a celebrity . now people recognize me in macy's , and my grandchildren think that i'm cool .	這讓我成為了名人 。 現在人們在macy的作品中認識我 , 而我的孫子認為我很酷 。
allow me to tell you about my four minutes of fame .	讓我來告訴你們我四分鐘的名聲 。
one of the organizers of the olympic ceremony , of the opening ceremony , called me and said that i had been selected to be one of the flagbearers .	奧林匹克典禮的一個組織者打電話給我 , 說我被選為旗幟之一 。
i replied that surely this was a case of mistaken identity because i'm as far as you can get from being an athlete .	我回答說 , 這絕對是錯誤的身分 , 因為我可以從運動員身上得到的 。
actually , i wasn't even sure that i could go around the stadium without a walker .	事實上 , 我甚至不確定自己可以到達體育場 , 不用走動器 。
i was told that this was no laughing matter .	我被告知這不是笑話 。
this would be the first time that only women would carry the olympic flag .	這是第一次 , 只有女性會帶著奧林匹克旗 。
five women , representing five continents , and three olympic gold medal winners .	五位女性 , 代表五大洲 , 三位奧運金牌贏家 。
my first question was , naturally , what was i going to wear ?	我的第一個問題是 , 很自然的 , 我要穿什麼衣服 ?
a uniform , she said , and asked for my measurements .	她說 , 一個制服 , 要求我的測量 。
i had a vision of myself in a fluffy anorak , looking like the michelin man .	我對自己有遠見的遠景 , 像是米開林人 。
by the middle of february , i found myself in turin , where enthusiastic crowds cheered when any of the 80 olympic teams was in the street .	到了二月的時候 , 我在土耳其找到自己 , 在那裡 , 熱切的群眾歡呼 , 當時任何80個奧運團隊都在街上 。
those athletes had sacrificed everything to compete in the games .	那些運動員犧牲了遊戲中的一切 。
they all deserved to win , but there's the element of luck .	他們都值得勝利 , 但幸運的元素 。
a speck of snow , an inch of ice , the force of the wind , can determine the result of a race or a game .	一片雪 , 一英吋的冰 , 風力 , 可以決定種族或遊戲的結果 。
however , what matters most more than training or luck is the heart .	然而 , 最重要的事 , 除了訓練或運氣 , 最重要的是心臟 。
only a fearless and determined heart will get the gold medal .	只有無懼且堅定的心會得到金牌 。
it is all about passion .	這全是關於熱情 。
the streets of turin were covered with red posters announcing the slogan of the olympics .	土耳其街道被紅色海報覆蓋 , 宣佈奧運的口號 。
passion lives here . isn't it always true ?	熱情存在這裡 , 不是嗎 ?
heart is what drives us and determines our fate .	心就是驅使我們決定我們的命運 。
that is what i need for my characters in my books: a passionate heart .	這就是我書中的角色所需要的:熱情的心 。
i need mavericks , dissidents , adventurers , outsiders and rebels , who ask questions , bend the rules and take risks .	我需要馬夫利克、異議人士、冒險家、外人和叛軍 , 他們會問問題、彎曲規則、冒險 。
people like all of you in this room .	像在座的各位一樣 。
nice people with common sense do not make interesting characters .	有常識的好人不會做出有趣的角色 。
they only make good former spouses .	他們只能做出好的前配偶 。
in the green room of the stadium , i met the other flag bearers: three athletes , and the actresses susan sarandon and sophia loren .	在體育場的綠色房間 , 我見到另一支旗熊:三名運動員 , 女演員蘇珊•薩蘭登和蘇菲雅•羅倫 。
also , two women with passionate hearts: wangari maathai , the nobel prizewinner from kenya who has planted 30 million trees . and by doing so , she has changed the soil , the weather , in some places in africa , and of course the economic conditions in many villages .	此外 , 有兩位充滿熱情的婦女:旺加里•馬塔伊 , 來自肯亞的諾貝爾獎得主 , 他種下了三千萬棵樹 。 藉此 , 她改變了土壤、氣候 , 在非洲某些地方 , 當然 , 在許多村莊裡 , 經濟狀況也改變了 。
and somaly mam , a cambodian activist who fights passionately against child prostitution .	柬埔寨的激進分子 , 會對抗兒童賣淫 。
when she was 14 years old , her grandfather sold her to a brothel .	當她十四歲時 , 她的祖父把她賣給兄弟 。
she told us of little girls raped by men who believe that having sex with a very young virgin will cure them from aids .	她告訴我們小女孩被男人強暴 , 他們相信和小小的處女做愛 , 會從愛滋病中治癒她們 。
and of brothels where children are forced to receive five , 15 clients per day , and if they rebel , they are tortured with electricity .	孩子們被迫接收5、15個客戶 , 如果他們反叛 , 他們就會被電給折磨 。
in the green room i received my uniform .	在綠色房間 , 我收到了制服 。
it was not the kind of outfit that i normally wear , but it was far from the michelin man suit that i had anticipated . not bad , really .	這不是我平常穿的那種衣服 , 但它離我所預期的米徹林化的服裝很遠 。 真的不錯 。
i looked like a refrigerator .	我看起來像是冰箱 。
but so did most of the flagbearers , except sophia loren , the universal symbol of beauty and passion .	除了蘇菲雅羅倫 , 大部份的旗幟都符合美和熱情的象徵 。
sophia is over 70 and she looks great .	蘇菲雅超過七十歲 , 她看起來很棒 。
she's sexy , slim and tall , with a deep tan .	她很迷人、很辛苦、很高 , 帶著很深的坦承 。
now , how can you have a deep tan and have no wrinkles ?	那麼 , 你要如何有深色的坦承 , 且沒有皺紋 ?
when asked in a tv interview , " how could she look so good ? "	電視訪問時 , 問道: 「 她要如何看起來這麼好 ? 」
she replied , " posture . my back is always straight , and i don't make old people's noises . "	她回答: 「 姿勢 , 我的背總是直的 , 我不會發出老人的聲音 。 」
so , there you have some free advice from one of the most beautiful women on earth .	這裡有一些免費的建議 , 來自地球上最美麗的女人之一 。
no grunting , no coughing , no wheezing , no talking to yourselves , no farting .	沒有發言 , 沒有咳嗽 , 沒有發臭 , 沒有跟自己說話 , 沒有遲到 。
well , she didn't say that exactly .	嗯 , 她並沒有完全這樣說 。
at some point around midnight , we were summoned to the wings of the stadium , and the loudspeakers announced the olympic flag , and the music started by the way , the same music that starts here , the aida march .	在午夜的時候 , 我們被召喚去體育場的翅膀 , 大聲說出奧運旗 , 順道一提 , 音樂的起始點是艾迪達大遊行 。
sophia loren was right in front of me she's a foot taller than i am , not counting the poofy hair .	蘇菲雅羅倫就在我面前 , 她比我高了一英尺 , 不算頭髮 。
she walked elegantly , like a giraffe on the african savannah , holding the flag on her shoulder . i jogged behind on my tiptoes holding the flag on my extended arm , so that my head was actually under the damn flag .	她很優雅地行走 , 像在非洲薩凡納的長頸鹿 , 肩膀握著旗子 。 我在我的尖端握著旗子 , 伸出我的手 , 這樣我的頭就在該死的旗子底下 。
all the cameras were , of course , on sophia .	當然 , 所有的攝影機在蘇菲雅 。
that was fortunate for me , because in most press photos i appear too , although often between sophia's legs .	這對我來說很幸運 , 因為在大部分的印刷照片中 , 雖然通常在蘇菲雅的腿之間 。
a place where most men would love to be .	一個大部分男人都喜歡的地方 。
the best four minutes of my entire life were those in the olympic stadium .	我一生中最棒的四分鐘是那些在奧運會場的人 。
my husband is offended when i say this although i have explained to him that what we do in private usually takes less than four minutes so he shouldn't take it personally .	我老公被冒犯了 , 我說這句話雖然我向他解釋 , 我們私下做的事通常會花不到四分鐘 , 所以他不應該把這件事個人化 。
i have all the press clippings of those four magnificent minutes , because i don't want to forget them when old age destroys my brain cells .	我有這四分鐘的記號 , 因為我不想忘記舊年紀摧毀我的腦細胞 。
i want to carry in my heart forever the key word of the olympics passion .	我想要永遠帶著奧運熱情的關鍵字眼 。
so here's a tale of passion .	這裡有個熱情的故事 。
the year is 1998 , the place is a prison camp for tutsi refugees in congo .	1998年 , 那個地方是剛果的監獄營 。
by the way , 80 percent of all refugees and displaced people in the world are women and girls .	順帶一提 , 世界上80%的難民和流離失所的是女性和女孩 。
we can call this place in congo a death camp , because those who are not killed will die of disease or starvation .	我們可以稱這個地方為剛果的死亡營 , 因為那些沒有被殺害的人 , 會死於疾病或飢餓 。
the protagonists of this story are a young woman , rose mapendo , and her children .	這個故事的主角是一位年輕女士 , 羅塞•馬多 , 她的孩子 。
she's pregnant and a widow .	她懷孕、寡婦 。
soldiers have forced her to watch as her husband was tortured and killed .	士兵迫使她看著她的丈夫被折磨並被殺害 。
somehow she manages to keep her seven children alive , and a few months later , she gives birth to premature twins .	不知怎麼的 , 她讓七個孩子活著 , 幾個月後 , 她生出了雙胞胎 。
two tiny little boys .	兩個小男孩 。
she cuts the umbilical cord with a stick , and ties it with her own hair .	她用一根棍子切下去 , 用自己的頭髮把它連結起來 。
she names the twins after the camp's commanders to gain their favor , and feeds them with black tea because her milk cannot sustain them .	她把營地指揮員工的雙胞胎命令命名 , 用黑茶餵食 , 因為她的牛奶無法維持它們 。
when the soldiers burst in her cell to rape her oldest daughter , she grabs hold of her and refuses to let go , even when they hold a gun to her head .	當士兵在她的牢房爆發強暴她最老的女兒時 , 她會抓住她並拒絕放手 , 即使他們拿著一把槍到她的頭上 。
somehow , the family survives for 16 months , and then , by extraordinary luck , and the passionate heart of a young american man , sasha chanoff , who manages to put her in a u . s . rescue plane , rose mapendo and her nine children end up in phoenix , arizona , where they're now living and thriving .	不知怎麼的 , 家人存活了16個月 , 然後 , 不凡的運氣 , 美國人的熱情 , 薩夏•查諾夫 , 他成功把她送進美國救援機 , 羅斯•圖多歐 , 她的九個孩子最後到亞利桑那州鳳凰城 , 他們現在居住和茁壯成長 。
mapendo , in swahili , means great love .	在斯瓦希里語 , 地圖是很棒的愛 。
the protagonists of my books are strong and passionate women like rose mapendo .	我書中的主角是強壯且有熱情的女性 , 如羅斯地圖 。
i don't make them up . there's no need for that .	我不放棄它們 , 不需要這樣做 。
i look around and i see them everywhere .	我環顧四周 , 到處都看到它們 。
i have worked with women and for women all my life .	我一生都和女性一起工作 。
i know them well .	我很熟悉他們 。
i was born in ancient times , at the end of the world , in a patriarchal catholic and conservative family .	我出生於古代 , 在世界末期 , 在父權天主教和保守的家庭中 。
no wonder that by age five i was a raging feminist although the term had not reached chile yet , so nobody knew what the heck was wrong with me .	難怪在我五歲的時候 , 我是個憤怒的女權主義者 , 雖然這個詞還沒有到智利 , 所以沒人知道我有什麼問題 。
i would soon find out that there was a high price to pay for my freedom , and for questioning the patriarchy .	我很快就會發現 , 為我的自由付出了很高的代價 , 並質疑父權 。
but i was happy to pay it , because for every blow that i received , i was able to deliver two .	但我很高興能支付這筆錢 , 因為每次我收到的炸彈 , 我都能送二次 。
once , when my daughter paula was in her twenties , she said to me that feminism was dated , that i should move on .	有一次 , 當我女兒保羅在她二十多歲時 , 她對我說 , 女權主義是約會的 , 我應該繼續前進 。
we had a memorable fight . feminism is dated ?	我們有一場難忘的戰鬥 , 女權主義是約會的 ?
yes , for privileged women like my daughter and all of us here today , but not for most of our sisters in the rest of the world who are still forced into premature marriage , prostitution , forced labor they have children that they don't want or they cannot feed .	沒錯 , 對於我女兒的特權女性來說 , 如今在座的各位 , 世界上大部分的姊妹們 , 她們仍然被迫要結婚、妓女 , 強迫她們有孩子不想要或無法餵飽 。
they have no control over their bodies or their lives .	他們無法控制自己的身體或生命 。
they have no education and no freedom .	他們沒有教育 , 也沒有自由 。
they are raped , beaten up and sometimes killed with impunity .	他們被強暴 , 被毆打 , 有時會被懲罰 。
for most western young women of today , being called a feminist is an insult .	現今大部分的西方年輕女性 , 被稱為女性主義者是侮辱 。
feminism has never been sexy , but let me assure you that it never stopped me from flirting , and i have seldom suffered from lack of men .	女性主義從來沒有過性感 , 但讓我保證 , 它從來沒有阻止我調情 , 且我很缺乏男性 。
feminism is not dead , by no means .	女性主義沒有死 , 絕對不會 。
it has evolved . if you don't like the term , change it , for goddess' sake .	它已經進化了 。 如果你不喜歡這個詞 , 改變它 , 為了女神的樣子 。
call it aphrodite , or venus , or bimbo , or whatever you want ; the name doesn't matter , as long as we understand what it is about , and we support it .	稱之為phrodite , 金星 , 或bimbo , 或任何你想要的東西 ; 這個名字並不重要 , 只要我們了解它是什麼 , 我們就支持它 。
so here's another tale of passion , and this is a sad one .	這裡還有另一個關於熱情的故事 , 這是個悲傷的故事 。
the place is a small women's clinic in a village in bangladesh .	這個地方是孟加拉村莊的小婦女診所 。
the year is 2005 .	2005年 。
jenny is a young american dental hygienist who has gone to the clinic as a volunteer during her threeweek vacation .	珍妮是一位年輕的美國牙醫衛生 , 她去了診所 , 在她的三週假期間當志願者 。
she's prepared to clean teeth , but when she gets there , she finds out that there are no doctors , no dentists , and the clinic is just a hut full of flies .	她準備好清潔牙齒 , 但當她走到那裡時 , 她發現沒有醫生 , 沒有牙醫 , 診所只滿是蒼蠅 。
outside , there is a line of women who have waited several hours to be treated .	在外面 , 有一系列的女性 , 等了好幾個小時才被治療 。
the first patient is in excruciating pain because she has several rotten molars .	第一位病人在極度痛苦 , 因為她有幾個腐爛的項目 。
jenny realizes that the only solution is to pull out the bad teeth .	珍妮知道 , 唯一的解決方案就是拉出壞牙齒 。
she's not licensed for that ; she has never done it .	她沒有執照 ; 她從來沒有做過 。
she risks a lot and she's terrified .	她的風險很大 , 她很害怕 。
she doesn't even have the proper instruments , but fortunately she has brought some novocaine .	她甚至沒有適當的樂器 , 但幸運的是 , 她帶來了一些諾維卡因 。
jenny has a brave and passionate heart .	珍妮有個勇敢且熱情的心 。
she murmurs a prayer and she goes ahead with the operation .	她謀殺了一名禱告 , 和手術一起前進 。
at the end , the relieved patient kisses her hands .	最終 , 釋放的病人親吻她的手 。
that day the hygienist pulls out many more teeth .	那天衛生學家抽出更多的牙齒 。
the next morning , when she comes again to the socalled clinic , her first patient is waiting for her with her husband .	第二天早上 , 當她再次回到所謂的診所時 , 她的第一個病人正等著她丈夫 。
the woman's face looks like a watermelon .	女人的臉看起來就像水月 。
it is so swollen that you can't even see the eyes .	腫到你看不到眼睛 。
the husband , furious , threatens to kill the american .	丈夫、憤怒、威脅要殺害美國人 。
jenny is horrified at what she has done , but then the translator explains that the patient's condition has nothing to do with the operation .	珍妮對她做過的事感到害怕 , 但翻譯者解釋了病人的狀況和手術沒有什麼關係 。
the day before , her husband beat her up because she was not home in time to prepare dinner for him .	前一天 , 她的丈夫打了她 , 因為她不在家 , 為他準備晚餐 。
millions of women live like this today .	現今有數百萬的女性像這樣生活 。
they are the poorest of the poor .	他們是窮人中最貧窮的人 。
although women do twothirds of the world's labor , they own less than one percent of the world's assets .	雖然世界上三分之二的女性勞工 , 她們擁有不到百分之一的全球資產 。
they are paid less than men for the same work if they're paid at all , and they remain vulnerable because they have no economic independence , and they are constantly threatened by exploitation , violence and abuse .	他們的薪水低於同一份工作的男性 , 如果他們付錢的話 , 他們的薪水完全低 , 因為他們沒有經濟獨立 , 他們經常受到剝削、暴力和虐待所威脅 。
it is a fact that giving women education , work , the ability to control their own income , inherit and own property , benefits the society .	事實是 , 給予女性教育、工作、控制自己收入、繼承和財產的能力 , 讓社會受益 。
if a woman is empowered , her children and her family will be better off .	如果一個女人被賦權 , 她的孩子和她的家人會更好 。
if families prosper , the village prospers , and eventually so does the whole country .	如果家人繁榮 , 村落的專家 , 最終整個國家也一樣 。
wangari maathai goes to a village in kenya .	wangarimaathai去肯亞的一個村莊
she talks with the women and explains that the land is barren because they have cut and sold the trees .	她和婦女談話 , 並解釋土地是荒謬的 , 因為他們砍掉了樹木 。
she gets the women to plant new trees and water them , drop by drop .	她讓婦女種植新的樹木 , 把它們澆水 , 掉下去 。
in a matter of five or six years , they have a forest , the soil is enriched , and the village is saved .	在五或六年之內 , 他們有森林 , 土壤被豐富 , 村落被拯救了 。
the poorest and most backward societies are always those that put women down .	最貧窮、最後退的社會總是那些把女性放下來的人 。
yet this obvious truth is ignored by governments and also by philanthropy .	然而 , 這種顯而易見的事實卻被政府和慈善機構忽略 。
for every dollar given to a women's program , 20 dollars are given to men's programs .	給女性專案的每一塊錢 , 有20塊錢給男性專案 。
women are 51 percent of humankind .	女性佔人類的51% 。
empowering them will change everything more than technology and design and entertainment .	給予他們力量 , 會改變一切 , 不只是科技、設計、娛樂 。
i can promise you that women working together linked , informed and educated can bring peace and prosperity to this forsaken planet .	我可以向你們保證 , 婦女們一起合作 , 連結、資訊、教育 , 能將和平和繁榮帶到這個被破壞的星球上 。
in any war today , most of the casualties are civilians , mainly women and children . they are collateral damage .	在今天的戰爭中 , 大部分的傷亡者都是平民百姓 , 主要是婦女和兒童 。 他們是冰封的傷害 。
men run the world , and look at the mess we have .	男人經營世界 , 看看我們所擁有的混亂 。
what kind of world do we want ?	我們想要什麼樣的世界 ?
this is a fundamental question that most of us are asking .	這是我們大多數人在問的一個基本問題 。
does it make sense to participate in the existing world order ?	參與現有的世界秩序是合理的嗎 ?
we want a world where life is preserved and the quality of life is enriched for everybody , not only for the privileged .	我們想要一個生活被保存、生活品質為每個人豐富的世界 , 不只是為了特權 。
in january i saw an exhibit of fernando botero's paintings at the uc berkeley library .	一月我看到佛南多•鮑特歐在加州大學柏克萊圖書館的畫作 。
no museum or gallery in the united states , except for the new york gallery that carries botero's work , has dared to show the paintings because the theme is the abu ghraib prison .	美國沒有博物館或畫廊 , 除了卡利波特奧的作品之外 , 還敢展現畫作 , 因為主題是阿布格拉伯監獄 。
they are huge paintings of torture and abuse of power , in the voluminous botero style .	它們是巨大的折磨和濫用權力的畫作 , 在大量的鮑特羅風格中 。
i have not been able to get those images out of my mind or my heart .	我無法把這些影像從我的心中或我的心中拿出來 。
what i fear most is power with impunity .	我最害怕的是不受懲罰的力量 。
i fear abuse of power , and the power to abuse .	我害怕濫用權力 , 以及濫用權力 。
in our species , the alpha males define reality , and force the rest of the pack to accept that reality and follow the rules .	在我們的物種中 , 雄性領袖定義現實 , 並強迫其他群體接受現實並遵守規則 。
the rules change all the time , but they always benefit them , and in this case , the trickledown effect , which does not work in economics , works perfectly .	規則隨時都改變 , 但他們總是受惠 , 在這個例子中 , 惡名昭彰的效應並不有效 。
abuse trickles down from the top of the ladder to the bottom .	虐待從梯子的頂部到底部 。
women and children , especially the poor , are at the bottom .	女人和孩子 , 特別是窮人 , 都在最底層 。
even the most destitute of men have someone they can abuse a woman or a child .	即便是最需要的人 , 也有可能會虐待女人或小孩的人 。
i'm fed up with the power that a few exert over the many through gender , income , race , and class .	我得到的力量是透過性別、收入、種族 , 和階級 。
i think that the time is ripe to make fundamental changes in our civilization .	我認為 , 該是我們文明的根本改變的時候了 。
but for real change , we need feminine energy in the management of the world .	但對於真正的改變 , 我們需要女性的能量來管理世界 。
we need a critical number of women in positions of power , and we need to nurture the feminine energy in men .	我們需要有權力的女性數量 , 我們需要培養男性的女性能源 。
i'm talking about men with young minds , of course .	我說的當然是年輕人 。
old guys are hopeless ; we have to wait for them to die off .	老年人是沒有希望的 , 我們必須等待他們死去 。
yes , i would love to have sophia loren's long legs and legendary breasts .	是的 , 我很樂意擁有索菲雅羅倫長的腿和傳奇的乳房 。
but given a choice , i would rather have the warrior hearts of wangari maathai , somaly mam , jenny and rose mapendo .	但 , 若有選擇 , 我寧願有勇氣的心臟 , 包括wangarimaathai , 瑪瑪瑪麗 , 珍妮 , 羅塞•地圖多 。
i want to make this world good .	我想讓這個世界變得更美好 。
not better , but to make it good .	不是更好 , 而是讓它變得更好 。
why not ? it is possible . look around in this room all this knowledge , energy , talent and technology .	為什麼不呢 ? 它是可能的 。 看看這個房間裡所有的知識 , 能源 , 天賦和科技 。
let's get off our fannies , roll up our sleeves and get to work , passionately , in creating an almost perfect world .	讓我們擺脫我們的空氣 , 捲起袖子 , 充滿熱情地工作 , 創造一個幾乎完美的世界 。
every day , in a city the size of london , 30 million meals are served . but where does all the food come from ? architect carolyn steel discusses the daily miracle of feeding a city , and shows how ancient food routes shaped the modern world .	每天 , 在倫敦大小的城市中 , 有三千萬餐是被服務的 。 但 , 所有的食物是從哪裡來的 ? 建築師卡羅爾討論了每天餵養城市的奇蹟 , 展示了古老的食物路線如何影響現代世界 。
cities , culture , food , global issues	城市、文化、食物、全球議題、全球議題、
carolyn steel: how food shapes our cities	卡羅琳•史提爾:食物如何影響我們的城市 。
how do you feed a city ?	你要如何餵飽一個城市 ?
it's one of the great questions of our time .	這是我們這個時代的一個大問題 。
yet it's one that's rarely asked .	但卻很少被問 。
we take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant , or indeed into this theater's foyer in about an hour's time , there is going to be food there waiting for us , having magically come from somewhere .	我們視而為理所當然 , 如果我們去商店或餐廳 , 或在大約一小時內 , 就會有食物等待我們 , 神奇地從某處來 。
but when you think that every day for a city the size of london , enough food has to be produced , transported , bought and sold , cooked , eaten , disposed of , and that something similar has to happen every day for every city on earth , it's remarkable that cities get fed at all .	但當你認為 , 每一天在倫敦大小的城市裡 , 足夠的食物必須被生產、運輸、購買、煮飯、吃、丟棄 , 這樣的事每天都要發生在地球上的每個城市 , 都很了不起 。
we live in places like this as if they're the most natural things in the world , forgetting that because we're animals and that we need to eat , we're actually as dependent on the natural world as our ancient ancestors were .	我們生活在像這樣的地方 , 彷彿他們是世界上最自然的東西 , 因為我們是動物 , 我們需要吃 , 我們其實是依賴我們古老祖先的自然世界 。
and as more of us move into cities , more of that natural world is being transformed into extraordinary landscapes like the one behind me it's soybean fields in mato grosso in brazil in order to feed us .	越多人搬到城市裡 , 越多的自然世界被轉變為非凡的景觀 , 像在我身後的那個景觀 , 它是巴西的馬托格羅索的黃豆田 , 為了餵飽我們 。
these are extraordinary landscapes , but few of us ever get to see them .	這些都是非凡的風景 , 但我們當中有少數人能看到它們 。
and increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either .	越來越多的地景也不只是餵飽我們 。
as more of us move into cities , more of us are eating meat , so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals .	當我們走進城市時 , 更多人在吃肉 , 所以現在全球每年有三分之一的穀物被餵食動物 , 而非我們人類 。
and given that it takes three times as much grain actually ten times as much grain to feed a human if it's passed through an animal first , that's not a very efficient way of feeding us .	由於需要三倍的穀物實際上是十倍的穀物來餵飽人類如果是先通過動物的話那就不太有效率地餵飽我們了
and it's an escalating problem too .	這也是一個危機的問題 。
by 2050 , it's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities .	到2050年 , 估計我們住在城市的兩倍 。
and it's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed .	同時估計會有兩倍的肉類和乳酪消耗量 。
so meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand .	所以 , 肉類和都市主義正在舉手 。
and that's going to pose an enormous problem .	這將會帶來一個巨大的問題 。
six billion hungry carnivores to feed , by 2050 .	到2050年 , 六十億飢餓的屍體供應食物 。
that's a big problem . and actually if we carry on as we are , it's a problem we're very unlikely to be able to solve .	這是個大問題 。 實際上 , 如果我們繼續做下去 , 這個問題就不太可能解決 。
nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land .	每年有9千萬公頃的雨林都消失了 , 創造出新的可耕地 。
although at the same time we're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion .	儘管同時我們失去了相當多的現有的耕地 , 來鹽化和侵蝕 。
we're very hungry for fossil fuels too .	我們也很渴望化石燃料 。
it takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the west .	西方每一卡路里大約需要十卡路里來生產我們所消耗的食物 。
and even though there is food that we are producing at great cost , we don't actually value it .	儘管我們所生產的食物成本很大 , 我們卻不珍視它 。
half the food produced in the usa is currently thrown away .	美國生產的一半食品已經被丟棄了 。
and to end all of this , at the end of this long process , we're not even managing to feed the planet properly .	最後 , 在這段漫長的過程結束時 , 我們甚至沒有適當的管理來餵飽地球 。
a billion of us are obese , while a further billion starve .	十億人肥胖 , 卻是十億人挨餓 。
none of it makes very much sense .	它沒有什麼合理的 。
and when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations , it's a grim picture .	當你認為 , 全球80%的貿易現在只能控制5個跨國企業 , 很嚴峻的照片 。
as we're moving into cities , the world is also embracing a western diet .	當我們進入城市時 , 世界也在擁抱西方飲食 。
and if we look to the future , it's an unsustainable diet .	如果我們看看未來 , 它是不永續的飲食 。
so how did we get here ?	我們是怎麼走到這一步的 ?
and more importantly , what are we going to do about it ?	更重要的是 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
well , to answer the slightly easier question first , about 10 , 000 years ago , i would say , is the beginning of this process in the ancient near east , known as the fertile crescent .	首先 , 先回答比較簡單的問題 , 大約一萬年前 , 我會說 , 這個過程在古老的東部 , 被稱為 「 肥沃的雪花 」 。
because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .	因為 , 如你所見 , 它是近期的形狀 。
and it was also fertile .	這也是肥沃的 。
and it was here , about 10 , 000 years ago , that two extraordinary inventions , agriculture and urbanism , happened roughly in the same place and at the same time .	大約在一萬年前 , 這裡有兩項非凡的發明 , 農業和都市主義 , 大約在同一時間發生 。
this is no accident , because agriculture and cities are bound together . they need each other .	這不是意外 , 因為農業和城市團結在一起 , 他們需要彼此 。
because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements .	因為我們古老的祖先第一次發現食物來源足夠大且穩定 , 足以支撐永久的定居地 。
and if we look at what those settlements were like , we see they were compact .	如果我們看看這些定居處的狀況 , 我們會看到它們是比較密集的 。
they were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at ur , that were , in fact , effectively , spiritualized , central food distribution centers .	他們身邊圍繞著生產力的農場 , 由大型的神廟所主宰 , 例如烏爾的這一個 , 實際上是精神化、中央食物分配中心 。
because it was the temples that organized the harvest , gathered in the grain , offered it to the gods , and then offered the grain that the gods didn't eat back to the people .	因為是神殿組織收穫 , 聚集在穀物裡 , 將之送給神 , 然後提供了神不吃的穀物 。
so , if you like , the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them .	所以 , 如果你喜歡 , 這些城市的精神生活和實體生活 , 都是由穀物所支配的 , 以及維持它們的收穫所支配的 。
and in fact , that's true of every ancient city .	事實上 , 每座古城都是如此 。
but of course not all of them were that small .	但當然不是全部都這麼小 。
famously , rome had about a million citizens by the first century a . d .	著名的是 , 羅馬在第一世紀 , 有大約一百萬個公民 。
so how did a city like this feed itself ?	所以 , 像這樣的城市如何養活自己 ?
the answer is what i call " ancient food miles . "	答案是 , 我稱之為 「 古老的食物里程 」 。
basically , rome had access to the sea , which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away .	基本上 , 羅馬可以接觸到海洋 , 讓它可以從很遠的地方進入進口食物 。
this is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world , because it was very difficult to transport food over roads , which were rough .	這是在古代世界 , 唯一可以做到的辦法 , 因為在路上運送食物是非常困難的 , 很粗糙 。
and the food obviously went off very quickly .	很顯然 , 食物很快就消失了 。
so rome effectively waged war on places like carthage and egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves .	所以 , 羅馬有效地用戰爭來打仗 , 像是汽車和埃及 , 只為了取得他們的穀物保留地 。
and , in fact , you could say that the expansion of the empire was really sort of one long , drawn out militarized shopping spree , really .	事實上 , 你可以說 , 帝國擴張的確是相當長的 , 軍事化的購物圈 。
in fact i love the fact , i just have to mention this: rome in fact used to import oysters from london , at one stage . i think that's extraordinary .	事實上 , 我很愛這個事實:羅馬以前是從倫敦進口牡蠣的 , 在某個階段 , 我認為那是非凡的 。
so rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite .	所以羅馬用它的胃口塑造了它的印度地 。
but the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the preindustrial world .	但有趣的是 , 工業界也發生了另一件事 。
if we look at a map of london in the 17th century , we can see that its grain , which is coming in from the thames , along the bottom of this map .	如果我們看看十七世紀倫敦的地圖 , 我們可以看到它的穀物 , 它是從這張地圖的底部來的 。
so the grain markets were to the south of the city .	所以 , 穀物市場就在城市的南方 。
and the roads leading up from them to cheapside , which was the main market , were also grain markets .	引領他們走向廉價的道路 , 也就是主要的市場 , 也是穀物市場 。
and if you look at the name of one of those streets , bread street , you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago .	如果你看這些街道的名字 , 麵包街 , 你就能知道300年前發生了什麼事 。
and the same of course was true for fish .	當然 , 魚類也是如此 。
fish was , of course , coming in by river as well . same thing .	當然 , 魚也來到河裡 。 同樣的事 。
and of course billingsgate , famously , was london's fish market , operating onsite here until the mid1980s .	當然 , 比林肯很有名 , 是倫敦的魚市場 , 直到1980年代中期才開始運作 。
which is extraordinary , really , when you think about it .	這真是太不凡了 , 真的 , 想想看吧 。
everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port .	每個人都在用行動電話遊蕩 , 看起來像是磚頭 , 有點像是在港口的魚 。
this is another thing about food in cities: once its roots into the city are established , they very rarely move .	城市裡有另一件事是關於食物:一旦它的根部進入城市 , 它們就很少移動 。
meat is a very different story because , of course , animals could walk into the city .	肉是一種非常不同的故事 , 因為 , 當然 , 動物會走進城市 。
so much of london's meat was coming from the northwest , from scotland and wales .	倫敦大部分的肉都來自西北部 , 來自蘇格蘭和威爾斯 。
so it was coming in , and arriving at the city at the northwest , which is why smithfield , london's very famous meat market , was located up there .	所以它來了 , 抵達西北部的城市 , 這就是為什麼史密斯菲爾德 , 倫敦非常有名的肉市場 , 那裡就在那裡 。
poultry was coming in from east anglia and so on , to the northeast .	文化從東加利亞來到東北部 。
i feel a bit like a weather woman doing this . anyway , and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes .	我覺得有點像氣象女人這樣做 。 總之 , 鳥兒們會帶著腳來保護小畫布 。
and then when they hit the eastern end of cheapside , that's where they were sold , which is why it's called poultry .	接著 , 當它們抵達了廉價的東邊 , 也就是它們被賣掉的地方 , 這就是為什麼稱之為 「 文化 」 。
and , in fact , if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age , you can trace food coming in to it .	事實上 , 如果你看看工業時代之前的任何一座城市地圖 , 你可以追蹤食物來到那裡 。
you can actually see how it was physically shaped by food , both by reading the names of the streets , which give you a lot of clues .	你可以看到它是如何被食物的形狀 , 不論是閱讀街道的名字 , 都會給你很多線索 。
friday street , in a previous life , is where you went to buy your fish on a friday .	星期五街 , 在以前的生活中 , 是你在星期五去買魚的地方 。
but also you have to imagine it full of food .	但同時 , 你也得要想像它充滿了食物 。
because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold .	因為街道和公共空間是購買食物的地方 。
and if we look at an image of smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from .	如果我們看看1830年史密菲爾德的影像 , 你可以看到住在像這樣的城市 , 很難知道你的食物從何而來 。
in fact , if you were having sunday lunch , the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier .	事實上 , 如果你在星期日午餐的時候 , 可能是在三天前的窗戶外吹氣或吹氣 。
so this was obviously an organic city , part of an organic cycle .	這顯然是一個有機城市 , 一個有機循環的一部分 。
and then 10 years later everything changed .	十年後 , 一切都改變了 。
this is an image of the great western in 1840 .	這是1840年偉大西方國家的照片 。
and as you can see , some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep .	如你所見 , 最早的乘客是豬和羊 。
so all of a sudden , these animals are no longer walking into market .	突然間 , 這些動物不再走進市場 。
they're being slaughtered out of sight and mind , somewhere in the countryside .	他們被趕出了視覺和心智 , 在鄉下某處 。
and they're coming into the city by rail .	他們會從鐵軌進入城市 。
and this changes everything .	這改變了一切 。
to start off with , it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities , really any size and shape , in any place .	首先 , 首先 , 它讓它可以第一次培養城市 , 任何大小和形狀 , 在任何地方 。
cities used to be constrained by geography ; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means .	城市以前被地理限制 ; 他們以前必須透過非常困難的實體來取得食物 。
all of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography .	突然間 , 它們從地理頻道中被有效地解放 。
and as you can see from these maps of london , in the 90 years after the trains came , it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot , and so on , to a large splurge , that would be very , very difficult to feed with anybody on foot , either animals or people .	如你所見 , 從倫敦的地圖 , 在火車出現的90年後 , 它從一塊很容易餵飽的小球 , 以此類推 , 到大型球體 , 很難餵飽任何人的腳 , 不論是動物或人 。
and of course that was just the beginning . after the trains came cars , and really this marks the end of this process .	當然 , 這只是開端 。 火車來了車之後 , 真的是這個過程的終點 。
it's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all .	它是城市最後的解放 , 完全是與大自然的關係 。
and this is the kind of city that's devoid of smell , devoid of mess , certainly devoid of people , because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape .	這是一種沒有聞到的城市 , 沒有混亂的城市 , 肯定沒有人會夢想走在這樣的地景上 。
in fact , what they did to get food was they got in their cars , drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts , came back with a week's worth of shopping , and wondered what on earth to do with it .	事實上 , 他們做的是 , 他們在他們的車子裡 , 開車到郊區的一個盒子裡 , 回來了一週的購物 , 想知道地球上有什麼用途 。
and this really is the moment when our relationship , both with food and cities , changes completely .	此時此刻 , 我們與食物和城市之間的關係 , 完全改變了 。
here we have food that used to be the center , the social core of the city at the periphery .	這裡我們有食物 , 以前是城市的中心 , 在周邊的城市的社會核心 。
it used to be a social event , buying and selling food .	它以前是社交活動 , 買賣和賣食物 。
we used to cook ; now we just add water , or a little bit of an egg if you're making a cake or something .	我們以前會煮飯 , 只要添加水 , 或添加一些蛋 , 只要你做蛋糕或其他東西 。
we don't smell food to see if it's okay to eat .	我們不會聞到食物 , 看看是否可以吃 。
we just read the back of a label on a packet .	我們只是讀包裝後面的標籤 。
and we don't value food . we don't trust it .	我們不重視食物 , 我們不相信它 。
so instead of trusting it , we fear it .	所以 , 我們不信任它 , 而是害怕它 。
and instead of valuing it , we throw it away .	而不是評價它 , 而是丟掉它 。
one of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder .	現代食品系統的諷刺之一是 , 他們讓自己承諾要更加困難 。
by making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place , they've actually distanced us from our most important relationship , which is that of us and nature .	若要在任何地方或任何地方建造城市 , 就能讓我們遠離我們最重要的關係 , 那就是我們和大自然 。
and also they've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver , that , as we've seen , are unsustainable .	此外 , 他們也讓我們依賴系統 , 只依靠它們能傳遞的系統 , 如同我們所見 , 都是無法永續發展的 。
so what are we going to do about that ?	所以 , 我們要怎麼做 ?
it's not a new question .	這不是一個新的問題 。
500 years ago it's what thomas more was asking himself .	500年前 , 湯瑪士自己問了什麼 。
this is the frontispiece of his book " utopia . "	這是他的書《烏托邦》的前線 。
and it was a series of semiindependent citystates , if that sounds remotely familiar , a day's walk from one another where everyone was basically farmingmad , and grew vegetables in their back gardens , and ate communal meals together , and so on .	那是一系列的半獨立城市 , 如果這聽起來很熟悉 , 大家基本上都是農業 , 在後院種植蔬菜 , 一起吃共產餐 , 等等 。
and i think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of utopia , even though more never framed it that way .	我認為 , 食物是烏托邦的基本定律 , 雖然它從來沒有把它看成那樣 。
and here is another very famous " utopian " vision , that of ebenezer howard , " the garden city . "	這裡還有另一個非常著名的 「 烏托邦 」 願景 , 埃布尼茲霍華 , 《花園城》 。
same idea: series of semiindependent citystates , little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around , joined to one another by railway .	同樣的想法:一系列的半獨立城市 , 一小塊大都市 , 附近的土地圍繞著鐵路 , 彼此連結 。
and again , food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision .	同樣的 , 食物可以被說是他視覺的秩序原則 。
it even got built , but nothing to do with this vision that howard had .	它甚至被建造了 , 但和霍華的這個願景沒有關係 。
and that is the problem with these utopian ideas , that they are utopian .	這就是烏托邦的想法的問題 , 他們是烏托邦 。
utopia was actually a word that thomas moore used deliberately .	烏托邦是湯瑪斯•摩爾刻意使用的一個詞 。
it was a kind of joke , because it's got a double derivation from the greek .	這是個笑話 , 因為希臘有雙重衍生 。
it can either mean a good place , or no place .	它可能意味著一個好的地方 , 或沒有地方 。
because it's an ideal . it's an imaginary thing . we can't have it .	因為它是理想的 。 它是幻想的 。 我們不能擁有它 。
and i think , as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling , that makes it not much use .	我認為 , 作為一個概念性的工具 , 來思考人類在鑽研的深層問題 , 讓它不太使用 。
so i've come up with an alternative , which is sitopia , from the ancient greek , " sitos " for food , and " topos " for place .	所以我想出了一個替代方案 , 西托邦 , 來自古希臘文 , " 西托 " 為食物 , 和 " 湯波 " 定位 。
i believe we already live in sitopia .	我相信我們已經住在西托邦 。
we live in a world shaped by food , and if we realize that , we can use food as a really powerful tool a conceptual tool , design tool , to shape the world differently .	我們生活在一個由食物塑造的世界 , 如果我們了解到 , 我們可以把食物當作強大的工具 , 一個概念性的工具 , 設計工具 , 來改變世界 。
so if we were to do that , what might sitopia look like ?	所以如果我們這樣做 , 西托邦看起來會是什麼樣子 ?
well i think it looks a bit like this .	我覺得這看起來有點像這樣 。
i have to use this slide . it's just the look on the face of the dog .	我必須用這張投影片 , 只是狗的臉 。
but anyway , this is it's food at the center of life , at the center of family life , being celebrated , being enjoyed , people taking time for it .	無論如何 , 這是食物在生活的中心 , 在家庭生活的中心 , 被讚頌 , 被享受 , 人們花時間去做這件事 。
this is where food should be in our society .	食物應該在我們的社會裡 。
but you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this .	除非你有這樣的人 , 否則你就不會有這樣的場景 。
by the way , these can be men as well .	順便一提 , 這些也可以是男人 。
it's people who think about food , who think ahead , who plan , who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them .	人們會想到食物 , 誰會想 , 誰會想 , 誰可以盯著一堆蔬菜 , 並且真的會認得出來 。
we need these people . we're part of a network .	我們需要這些人 , 我們是網絡的一部分 。
because without these kinds of people we can't have places like this .	因為如果沒有這些人 , 我們就不能有這樣的地方 。
here , i deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable .	在這裡 , 我刻意選擇這個 , 因為這是一個人在買蔬菜 。
but networks , markets where food is being grown locally .	但網路、市場在當地成長 。
it's common . it's fresh .	它很常見 , 很新鮮 。
it's part of the social life of the city .	它是城市社會生活的一部分 。
because without that , you can't have this kind of place , food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape , and is not just a zerosum commodity off in some unseen hellhole .	因為若沒有這些 , 你就不會有這種地方 , 當地種植的食物 , 同時也是地景的一部分 , 而不只是一個零和的商品 , 在一些未知的洞內 。
cows with a view .	用肉眼來看牛 。
steaming piles of humus .	蒸汽堆的 「 嗡 」 。
this is basically bringing the whole thing together .	這基本上是把整件事結合在一起 。
and this is a community project i visited recently in toronto .	這是我最近在多倫多拜訪過的一個社區計畫 。
it's a greenhouse , where kids get told all about food and growing their own food .	這是一間溫室 , 孩子們會被告知 , 關於食物和種植自己的食物 。
here is a plant called kevin , or maybe it's a plant belonging to a kid called kevin . i don't know .	這裡有一株叫凱文的植物 , 或者它屬於一個叫凱文的孩子 。 我不知道 。
but anyway , these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important .	總之 , 這些企圖將我們和大自然重新連結起來是非常重要的 。
so sitopia , for me , is really a way of seeing .	所以 , 對我來說 , 西托邦是種看法 。
it's basically recognizing that sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere .	基本上 , 認為西托邦已經存在於各地的小口袋裡 。
the trick is to join them up , to use food as a way of seeing .	訣竅在於加入它們 , 用食物當作一種看待方式 。
and if we do that , we're going to stop seeing cities as big , metropolitan , unproductive blobs , like this .	如果我們這麼做 , 我們就不會把城市視為是大型、大都市、沒有生產力的斑點 , 像這樣 。
we're going to see them more like this , as part of the productive , organic framework of which they are inevitably a part , symbiotically connected .	我們將看到它們更像這樣 , 作為生產力、有機架構的一部分 , 它們是無可避免連接的部分 。
but of course , that's not a great image either , because we need not to be producing food like this anymore .	當然 , 這也不是很棒的影像 , 因為我們不再需要像這樣生產食物 。
we need to be thinking more about permaculture , which is why i think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing .	我們需要考慮更多的永續培養 , 這就是為什麼我認為這張照片總結了我認為我們需要做的事 。
it's a reconceptualization of the way food shapes our lives .	它是一種重新概念化的食物如何影響我們的生活 。
the best image i know of this is from 650 years ago .	我所知道的最好的圖像是來自650年前 。
it's ambrogio lorenzetti's " allegory of good government . "	阿布羅吉歐•洛倫澤蒂的《好政府的寓言》 。
it's about the relationship between the city and the countryside .	重點是城市和鄉村之間的關係 。
and i think the message of this is very clear .	我認為這個訊息非常清楚 。
if the city looks after the country , the country will look after the city .	如果城市照顧這個國家 , 國家會照顧城市 。
and i want us to ask now , what would ambrogio lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today ?	我現在要我們問 , 如果他今天畫出這張圖 , 阿布羅吉歐•羅倫澤蒂畫了些什麼 ?
what would an allegory of good government look like today ?	今天的好政府會長什麼樣子 ?
because i think it's an urgent question .	因為我認為這是一個迫切的問題 。
it's one we have to ask , and we have to start answering .	這是我們必須問的問題 , 我們必須開始回答 。
we know we are what we eat .	我們知道我們吃的東西 。
we need to realize that the world is also what we eat .	我們需要了解到 , 世界也是我們吃的東西 。
but if we take that idea , we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better .	但如果我們採用這個想法 , 我們就能把食物當作強大的工具來塑造世界變得更好 。
weeks from the charter for compassion launch , karen armstrong looks at religion's role in the 21st century: will its dogmas divide us ? or will it unite us for common good ? she reviews the catalysts that can drive the world's faiths to rediscover the golden rule .	二十一世紀以來 , 慈悲心發起的幾個禮拜 , 卡倫•阿姆斯壯看著宗教在二十一世紀扮演的角色:它會把我們分裂嗎 ? 或者它會讓我們共通嗎 ? 她會重新審視世界上的信仰 , 來重新發現黃金規則 。
god , ted prize , global issues , politics , religion , tedglobal2009 , violence	上帝、ted大獎、全球議題、政治、宗教、tedglobal2009、暴力、暴力 。
karen armstrong: let's revive the golden rule	karenarmstrong:咱們回顧黃金法則:咱們回顧黃金法則 。
for years i've been feeling frustrated , because as a religious historian , i've become acutely aware of the centrality of compassion in all the major world faiths .	多年來 , 我都感到沮喪 , 因為身為宗教歷史學家 , 我很敏銳地意識到同情心的核心 , 在全世界的所有信仰中 。
every single one of them has evolved their own version of what's been called the golden rule .	每一個人都演化出了他們自己的版本 , 稱為黃金法則 。
sometimes it comes in a positive version " always treat all others as you'd like to be treated yourself . "	有時 , 會出現一個正面的版本 , 「 永遠對待別人 , 只要你想要被治療 。 」
and equally important is the negative version " don't do to others what you would not like them to do to you . "	同樣重要的是 , 負面版本的 「 不要對別人做你不喜歡的事 。 」
look into your own heart , discover what it is that gives you pain and then refuse , under any circumstance whatsoever , to inflict that pain on anybody else .	看看你自己的心 , 發現讓你痛苦的是什麼 , 然後在任何情況下拒絕 , 把疼痛給任何人 。
and people have emphasized the importance of compassion , not just because it sounds good , but because it works .	人們強調同情心的重要性 , 不只是因為它聽起來很好 , 也因為它有用 。
people have found that when they have implemented the golden rule as confucius said , " all day and every day , " not just a question of doing your good deed for the day and then returning to a life of greed and egotism , but to do it all day and every day , you dethrone yourself from the center of your world , put another there , and you transcend yourself .	人們發現 , 當他們實施了金牌規則 , 如同混亂的說法: 「 一整天和每一天 , 」 不只是你做好的事 , 還會回到貪婪和自尊的人生裡 , 一整天 , 一整天 , 一整天 , 你就從世界的中心 , 丟下自己 , 然後你超越自己 。
and it brings you into the presence of what's been called god , nirvana , rama , tao .	它帶你進入了被稱為神的神、nirvana、rama、tao的存在 。
something that goes beyond what we know in our egobound existence .	在我們自負的存在之外 , 有些東西超越了我們所知道的 。
but you know you'd never know it a lot of the time , that this was so central to the religious life .	但你知道你從來不知道 , 這對宗教生活來說是很重要的 。
because with a few wonderful exceptions , very often when religious people come together , religious leaders come together , they're arguing about abstruse doctrines or uttering a council of hatred or inveighing against homosexuality or something of that sort .	因為有一些很棒的例外 , 通常當宗教人聚集在一起時 , 宗教領袖聚集在一起時 , 他們會爭論荒謬的教義 , 或是說出仇恨或意見對抗同性戀或類似的仇恨 。
often people don't really want to be compassionate .	通常人們不太想要有同情心 。
i sometimes see when i'm speaking to a congregation of religious people a sort of mutinous expression crossing their faces because people often want to be right instead .	我有時會看到 , 當我和宗教群體交談時 , 會有一種互相交流的表情 , 會跨越他們的臉孔 , 因為人們常常想做對的事 。
and that of course defeats the object of the exercise .	這當然打敗了運動的物體 。
now why was i so grateful to ted ?	為什麼我這麼感激ted ?
because they took me very gently from my booklined study and brought me into the 21st century , enabling me to speak to a much , much wider audience than i could have ever conceived .	因為他們很溫柔地從我的書籍研究帶我進入21世紀 , 讓我可以說出比我想像中還要更廣的觀眾 。
because i feel an urgency about this .	因為我對此感到很緊迫 。
if we don't manage to implement the golden rule globally , so that we treat all peoples , wherever and whoever they may be , as though they were as important as ourselves , i doubt that we'll have a viable world to hand on to the next generation .	如果我們沒有辦法實現全球的黃金法則 , 所以我們對待所有人 , 無論他們在哪裡 , 無論他們是誰 , 都跟我們一樣重要 , 我懷疑我們會有一個可行的世界 , 來交給下一代 。
the task of our time , one of the great tasks of our time , is to build a global society , as i said , where people can live together in peace .	我們這個時代的任務 , 我們這個時代最大的任務之一 , 就是建立一個全球社會 , 就像我所說的 , 在那裡 , 人們可以一起生活在和平中 。
and the religions that should be making a major contribution are instead seen as part of the problem .	該做出重大貢獻的宗教 , 被視為是問題的一部分 。
and of course it's not just religious people who believe in the golden rule .	當然 , 不只是宗教人士相信黃金法則 。
this is the source of all morality , this imaginative act of empathy , putting yourself in the place of another .	這是所有道德的來源 , 這種想像力的同理心 , 把自己放在另一個地方 。
and so we have a choice , it seems to me .	所以我們有選擇 , 似乎我有選擇 。
we can either go on bringing out or emphasizing the dogmatic and intolerant aspects of our faith , or we can go back to the rabbis . rabbi hillel , the older contemporary of jesus , who , when asked by a pagan to sum up the whole of jewish teaching while he stood on one leg , said , " that which is hateful to you , do not do to your neighbor .	我們可以說出話 , 或者強調我們的信仰的教義 , 或我們回到拉比希爾 , 老舊的耶穌會議 , 當他站在一條腿上時 , 要求他總結猶太教學 , 他說: 「 這對你不感興趣 , 不要對你的鄰居做事 。
that is the torah and everything else is only commentary . "	這就是托拉和其他一切都只是評論而已 。 」
and the rabbis and the early fathers of the church who said that any interpretation of scripture that bred hatred and disdain was illegitimate .	教會的早期教會和長老說任何仇恨和歧視都是非正當的 。
and we need to revive that spirit .	我們需要復興這精神 。
and it's not just going to happen because a spirit of love wafts us down .	這不會發生 , 因為愛的精神讓我們失望 。
we have to make this happen , and we can do it with the modern communications that ted has introduced .	我們必須實現這一點 , 並且我們可以利用ted介紹的現代通訊來實現 。
already i've been tremendously heartened at the response of all our partners .	我已經對所有伴侶的回應感到極大的鼓舞 。
in singapore , we have a group going to use the charter to heal divisions recently that have sprung up in singaporean society , and some members of the parliament want to implement it politically .	在新加坡 , 我們有一群人會用charter來治癒最近發生在新加坡的社會 , 有些議會的成員想要在政治上實施 。
in malaysia , there is going to be an art exhibition in which leading artists are going to be taking people , young people , and showing them that compassion also lies at the root of all art .	在馬來西亞 , 將會有一個藝術展覽 , 讓藝術家能帶領人們、年輕人 , 並讓他們知道 , 同情心也是所有藝術的根源 。
throughout europe , the muslim communities are holding events and discussions , are discussing the centrality of compassion in islam and in all faiths .	在整個歐洲 , 穆斯林社區正在舉辦活動和討論 , 正在討論伊斯蘭和所有信仰中的同情心的核心 。
but it can't stop there . it can't stop with the launch .	但它不能停在那 , 它不能停止發射 。
religious teaching , this is where we've gone so wrong , concentrating solely on believing abstruse doctrines .	宗教教學讓我們錯了 , 只專注於相信抽象的教義 。
religious teaching must always lead to action .	宗教教學一定會引起行動 。
and i intend to work on this till my dying day .	我打算在我死去的那一天工作 。
and i want to continue with our partners to do two things educate and stimulate compassionate thinking .	我希望我們的合作夥伴能做兩件事 , 教育和刺激同情心 。
education because we've so dropped out of compassion .	教育因為我們已經失去同情心 。
people often think it simply means feeling sorry for somebody .	人們常認為這意味著對某個人感到抱歉 。
but of course you don't understand compassion if you're just going to think about it .	當然 , 如果你想一想 , 你並不了解同情心 。
you also have to do it .	你也必須這麼做 。
i want them to get the media involved because the media are crucial in helping to dissolve some of the stereotypical views we have of other people , which are dividing us from one another .	我希望媒體參與其中 , 是因為媒體在協助解除一些我們對他人的刻板印象 , 將我們從彼此之間分開來 。
the same applies to educators .	教育工作者也一樣 。
i'd like youth to get a sense of the dynamism , the dynamic and challenge of a compassionate lifestyle .	我希望年輕人能感受到動態、動態 , 以及同情生活方式的挑戰 。
and also see that it demands acute intelligence , not just a gooey feeling .	同時也看到它需要急性智能 , 而非只有一種舒服的感覺 。
i'd like to call upon scholars to explore the compassionate theme in their own and in other people's traditions .	我想要打電話給學者 , 來探索他們自己的同情心主題 , 在其他人的傳統中 。
and perhaps above all , to encourage a sensitivity about uncompassionate speaking , so that because people have this charter , whatever their beliefs or lack of them , they feel empowered to challenge uncompassionate speech , disdainful remarks from their religious leaders , their political leaders , from the captains of industry .	最重要的是 , 鼓勵對於不親切的演講的敏感度 , 如此一來 , 是因為人們有這份文章 , 不論他們的信仰或缺乏信仰 , 他們都覺得賦權於挑戰不友善的言論 , 從他們的宗教領袖 , 他們的政治領袖 , 或工業領袖 。
because we can change the world , we have the ability .	因為我們可以改變世界 , 我們有能力 。
i would never have thought of putting the charter online .	我從來沒有想過把這張圖放上網 。
i was still stuck in the old world of a whole bunch of boffins sitting together in a room and issuing yet another arcane statement .	我仍然困在古老的世界裡 , 坐在房間裡的一堆棺材裡 , 再接著又一次的阿卡尼聲明 。
and ted introduced me to a whole new way of thinking and presenting ideas .	ted介紹了我一個全新的思考方式 , 和呈現想法 。
because that is what is so wonderful about ted .	因為這就是ted的美好之處 。
in this room , all this expertise , if we joined it all together , we could change the world .	在這個房間裡 , 所有的專業知識 , 如果我們一起合作 , 我們就能改變世界 。
and of course the problems sometimes seem insuperable .	當然 , 問題有時會更加惡化 。
but i'd just like to quote , finish at the end with a reference to a british author , an oxford author whom i don't quote very often , c . s . lewis .	但我想要引用一句話 , 結束後 , 說到英國作者 , 一位牛津作家 , 我不常引用c.s.lewis 。
but he wrote one thing that stuck in my mind ever since i read it when i was a schoolgirl .	但他寫了一件事 , 自從我讀書的時候 , 我就深深印印象深刻 。
it's in his book " the four loves . "	他的書《四個愛情》 。
he said that he distinguished between erotic love , when two people gaze , spellbound , into each other's eyes .	他說 , 他分辨出愛情 , 當兩個人凝視、拼字 , 分成對方的眼睛 。
and then he compared that to friendship , when two people stand side by side , as it were , shoulder to shoulder , with their eyes fixed on a common goal .	接著 , 他把這個和友誼做比較 , 當兩個人站在旁邊 , 就如同 , 肩膀 , 肩膀 , 眼睛固定在共同的目標上 。
we don't have to fall in love with each other , but we can become friends .	我們不需要愛上彼此 , 但我們能成為朋友 。
and i am convinced .	我深信不疑
i felt it very strongly during our little deliberations at vevey , that when people of all different persuasions come together , working side by side for a common goal , differences melt away .	我感到非常強烈 , 在我們在維維基的小小意志中 , 當所有不同的人聚集在一起時 , 一起努力努力 , 為了一個共同的目標努力 , 差異消失了 。
and we learn amity .	我們學到了野心 。
and we learn to live together and to get to know one another .	我們學會一起生活 , 去認識彼此 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝各位 。
david macaulay relives the winding and sometimes surreal journey toward the completion of rome antics , his illustrated homage to the historic city .	大衛馬卡爾依依依靠風力 , 有時也不切實際的旅程 , 朝著羅馬帝國的綜合之旅 , 他對歷史城市的讚嘆 。
macarthur grant , art , arts , book , cities , communication , culture , design , entertainment , humor , storytelling	麥克arthurgrur、藝術、藝術、書籍、城市、溝通、文化、設計、娛樂、幽默、說故事 。
i draw to better understand things .	我畫的是更好的理解事物 。
sometimes i make a lot of drawings and i still don't understand what it is i'm drawing .	有時候我畫了很多畫 , 我仍然不知道我在畫什麼 。
those of you who are comfortable with digital stuff and even smug about that relationship might be amused to know that the guy who is best known for " the way things work , " while preparing for part of a panel for called understanding , spent two days trying to get his laptop to communicate with his new cd burner .	那些對數位東西感到舒服的人 , 甚至對這段關係感到很迷惑 , 會知道最為人所知的 「 事情 」 , 而在準備為 「 理解 」 的一部分時 , 花了兩天的時間 , 試圖讓他的筆記型電腦和他的新cdburner溝通 。
who knew about extension managers ?	誰知道延伸經理 ?
i've always managed my own extensions so it never even occurred to me to read the instructions , but i did finally figure it out . i had to figure it out , because along with the invitation came the frightening reminder that there would be no projector , so bringing those carousels would no longer be necessary but some alternate form of communication would .	我一直都管理著自己的延伸 , 甚至從來沒有想過這些指令 , 但我終於明白了 。 我必須搞清楚 。 因為隨著邀請來臨 , 提醒我們沒有投影機 , 所以 , 帶著那些卡爾斯不再必要 , 而是另一種溝通的形式 。
now , i could talk about something that i'm known for , something that would be particularly appropriate for many of the more technically minded people here , or i could talk about something i really care about .	現在 , 我可以談談我所熟知的事物 , 特別適合在座各位 , 或我可以談我真正關心的東西 。
i decided to go with the latter .	我決定跟後者一起去 。
i'm going to talk about rome .	我要談羅馬 。
now , why would i care about rome , particularly ?	我為什麼要關心羅馬 ? 尤其是呢 ?
well , i went to rhode island school of design in the second half of the '60s to study architecture .	嗯 , 我去了羅德島設計學院 , 在60年代的第二半時間 , 去研究建築 。
i was lucky enough to spend my last year , my fifth year , in rome as a student . it changed my life .	我很幸運 , 去年我五年在羅馬當學生 , 改變了我的人生 。
not the least reason was the fact that i had spent those first four years living at home , driving into risd everyday , driving back .	不是最不理由是我花了前四年住在家裡 , 每天開車到瑞士 , 開車回家 。
i missed the '60s . i read about them ; i understand they were pretty interesting . i missed them , but i did spend that extraordinary year in rome , and it's a place that is never far from my mind .	我錯過了1960年代 。 我讀到他們 , 我知道他們很有趣 。 我錯過了他們 , 但是我在羅馬度過了不凡的一年 , 而這是我從來沒有想過的地方 。
so , whenever given an opportunity , i try to do something in it or with it or for it .	所以 , 每當有機會時 , 我都會試著在裡面做點什麼 , 或為了它做點什麼 。
i also make drawings to help people understand things .	我也畫圖來幫助人們了解事物 。
things that i want them to believe i understand .	我希望他們相信我所了解的事物 。
and that's what i do as an illustrator , that's my job .	這就是我作為一個插畫家所做的 , 那就是我的工作 。
so , i'm going to show you some pictures of rome .	我要給你們看一些羅馬的照片 。
i've made a lot of drawings of rome over the years .	多年來 , 我畫了很多羅馬圖 。
these are just drawings of rome . i get back as often as possible i need to .	這些只是羅馬的畫作 , 我盡可能多次回來 。
all different materials , all different styles , all different times , drawings from sketchbooks looking at the details of rome .	所有不同的材料 , 各種不同的風格 , 每次 , 從草稿上畫 , 看看羅馬的細節 。
part of the reason i'm showing you these is that it sort of helps illustrate this process i go through of trying to figure out what it is i feel about rome and why i feel it .	我給你們看的其中一部分原因是 , 它可以協助描述這個過程 , 我試著去了解羅馬的感受 , 以及為什麼我會覺得它 。
these are sketches of some of the little details .	這些是一些細節的草圖 。
rome is a city full of surprises .	羅馬是個充滿驚喜的城市 。
i mean , we're talking about unusual perspectives , we're talking about narrow little winding streets that suddenly open into vast , sundrenched piazzas never , though , piazzas that are not humanly scaled .	我的意思是 , 我們談的是非比尋常的觀點 , 我們談的是狹窄的小街道 , 突然開到廣大、被曬傷的廣場 , 卻從來沒有 , piazzas不是人在擴展的 。
part of the reason for that is the fact that they grew up organically .	原因之一是他們有機長大 。
that amazing juxtaposition of old and new , the bits of light that come down between the buildings that sort of create a map that's traveling above your head of usually blue especially in the summer compared to the map that you would normally expect to see of conventional streets .	老舊和新穎的對立 , 建築物之間的光線 , 形成了一張地圖 , 通常是藍色的地圖 , 特別是在夏天 , 和你平常看到的傳統街道的地圖相比 。
and i began to think about how i could communicate this in book form .	我開始思考我要如何用書籍來溝通 。
how could i share my sense of rome , my understanding of rome ?	我要如何分享我對羅馬的認知 , 我對羅馬的認知 ?
and i'm going to show you a bunch of dead ends , basically .	基本上 , 我要給你們看一堆死胡同 。
the primary reason for all these dead ends is when if you're not quite sure where you're going , you're certainly not going to get there with any kind of efficiency .	這些死者的主要原因是如果你不太確定你要去哪裡 , 你肯定不會得到任何效率 。
here's a little map . and i thought of maps at the beginning ; maybe i should just try and do a little atlas of my favorite streets and connections in rome .	這是一張小地圖 , 我一開始就想到地圖 , 也許我應該試著做一些我最喜歡的街道和連結 。
and here's a line of text that actually evolves from the exhaust of a scooter zipping across the page .	這裡有一道文字的演化方式 , 實際上是從頭皮上橫跨整個頁面 。
here that same line of text wraps around a fountain in an illustration that can be turned upside down and read both ways .	同樣的文字符號在噴泉周圍繞著噴泉 , 可以翻過來 , 兩邊閱讀 。
maybe that line of text could be a story to help give some human aspect to this .	也許那條文字的線條可以成為一個故事 , 來協助我們對此進行一些人性的看法 。
maybe i should get away from this map completely , and really be honest about wanting to show you my favorite bits and pieces of rome and simply kick a soccer ball in the air which happens in so many of the squares in the city and let it bounce off of things . and i'll simply explain what each of those things is that the soccer ball hits .	也許我應該完全擺脫這張地圖 , 坦誠的說 , 要向你們展示我最愛的位元和羅馬的部分 , 簡單地踢球 , 在城市中許多廣場中 , 讓它反彈 。 我會簡單地解釋每一件事情是足球的撞擊 。
that seemed like a sort of a cheap shot .	這看起來有點廉價的照片 。
but even though i just started this presentation , this is not the first thing that i tried to do and i was getting sort of desperate .	但即使我剛開始這場演說 , 這並不是我嘗試做的第一件事 , 我也變得有點絕望 。
eventually , i realized that i had really no content that i could count on , so i decided to move towards packaging .	最終 , 我意識到我沒有任何可以數的內容 , 所以我決定搬到包裝上 。
i mean , it seems to work for a lot of things .	我的意思是 , 這對很多事情來說似乎都有效 。
so i thought a little box set of four small books might do the trick .	所以我想了一組四本小書的小盒子 , 可能會把戲 。
but one of the ideas that emerged from some of those sketches was the notion of traveling through rome in different vehicles at different speeds in order to show the different aspects of rome .	但從這些草圖中浮現的其中一個想法是旅行在不同速度的羅馬旅行的概念 , 以不同的速度旅行 , 來展現羅馬的不同面向 。
sort of an overview of rome and the plan that you might see from a dirigible .	有點像是羅馬的總觀 , 和你可能從可食用的計劃 。
quick snapshots of things you might see from a speeding motor scooter , and very slow walking through rome , you might be able to study in more detail some of the wonderful surfaces and whatnot that you come across .	快速的拍攝一些東西 , 可能是從速度摩托車上看到的 , 慢慢穿過羅馬 , 你可能可以在更細節的表面上學習 , 以及你所看到的一切 。
anyways , i went back to the dirigible notion .	總之 , 我回到了可怕的概念 。
went to alberto santosdumont .	去了亞伯托•桑托森特 。
found one of his dirigibles that had enough dimensions so i could actually use it as a scale that i would then juxtapose with some of the things in rome .	找到他的一個有足夠多維度的行程 , 讓我可以把它當作一個尺度 , 然後我會和羅馬的一些東西一起跳躍 。
this thing would be flying over or past or be parked in front of , but it would be like having a ruler sort of travel through the pages without being a ruler .	這東西會飛過或過往或被停在前面 , 但它就像是穿過一頁 , 而不是當統治者 。
not that you know how long number 11 actually is , but you would be able to compare number 11 against the pantheon with number 11 against the baths of caracalla , and so on and so forth . if you were interested .	不是因為你知道11號數字實際上有多長 , 但你能夠比較11號和萬神廟的比較 , 和卡卡卡拉的浴場相比 , 等等 。 如果你感興趣的話 。
this is beatrix . she has a dog named ajax , she has purchased a dirigible a small dirigible she's assembling the structure , ajax is sniffing for holes in the balloon before they set off .	這是beatrix 。 她有一隻狗叫ajax , 她買了一把可怕的小方格 , 她組裝了這個結構 , ajax在氣球上排成孔 。
she launches this thing above the spanish steps and sets off for an aerial tour of the city .	她在西班牙階梯上開啟了這個東西 , 為城市的空中巡迴演出 。
over the spanish steps we go .	在西班牙的步驟上 。
a nice way to show that river , that stream sort of pouring down the hill .	展示這條河的好方法 , 河流從山丘上倒下 。
unfortunately , just across the road from it or quite close by is the column of marcus aurelius , and the diameter of the dirigible makes an impression , as you can see , as she starts trying to read the story that spirals around the column of marcus aurelius gets a little too close , nudges it .	不幸的是 , 就在路上或很接近的是馬可•奧里斯的圓柱 , 而這個方塊的直徑會產生一種印象 , 就像你所看到的 , 當她開始閱讀馬可•阿里斯四周的螺旋的故事時 , 有點太靠近了 。
this gives me a chance to suggest to you the structure of the column of marcus aurelius , which is really no more than a pile of quarters high thick quarters . over the piazza of saint ignacio , completely ruining the symmetry , but that aside a spectacular place to visit .	這讓我有機會建議馬可•奧里斯的圓柱結構 , 這真的不是一堆25公分高厚度的四分之一 。 在聖娜西歐 , 完全毀掉了對稱性 , 但那是一塊美妙的去造訪的地方 。
a spectacular framework , inside of which you see , usually , extraordinary blue sky .	一個壯觀的架構 , 在裡面 , 你可以看到 , 通常 , 奇特的藍天 。
over the pantheon and the 26foot diameter oculus .	在萬神廟和26英尺的直徑 。
she parks her dirigible , lowers the anchor rope and climbs down for a closer look inside .	她停下來 , 降低觸控繩索 , 更靠近觀察內部 。
the text here is right side and upside down so that you are forced to turn the book around , and you can see it from ground point of view and from her point of view looking in the hole , getting a different kind of perspective , moving you around the space . particularly appropriate in a building that can contain perfectly a sphere dimensions of the diameter being the same as the distance from the center of the floor to the center of the oculus .	這裡的文字是對的 , 向下 , 所以你被迫要把書轉過來 , 從地面的角度看 , 從她的觀點看 , 從洞的角度看 , 到空間的角度 , 移動你 。 特別適當的是在一個建築中 , 裡面包含一個球體的寬度 , 和在直徑的距離 , 和地板的距離一樣 。
unfortunately for her , the anchor line gets tangled around the feet of some boy scouts who are visiting the pantheon , and they are immediately yanked out and given an extraordinary but terrifying tour of some of the domes of rome , which would , from their point of view , naturally be hanging upside down .	不幸的是 , 有些男孩偵查員到來參觀萬神廟 , 他們立刻被排擠 , 給出了不凡但可怕的旅程 , 從羅馬的角度來看 , 天然會被吊死 。
they bail out as soon as they get to the top of saint ivo , that little spiral structure you see there .	牠們一旦抵達聖艾佛的上方 , 就會保釋出來的螺旋結構 。
she continues on her way over piazza navona .	她繼續走下去 , 穿越潘薩拉納維娜的路 。
notices a lot of activity at the tre scalini restaurant , is reminded that it is lunchtime and she's hungry .	注意到很多在treskalini餐廳的活動 , 有人提醒說是午餐時間 , 她餓了 。
they keep on motoring towards the campo de' fiori , which they soon reach . ajax the dog is put in a basket and lowered with a list of food into the marketplace , which flourishes there until about one in the afternoon , and then is completely removed and doesn't appear again until six or seven the following morning .	他們持續向campodefiori進行動作 , 很快就有了 。 狗被放在籃子裡 , 上面放了一份食物到市場上 , 直到下午 , 牠完全被移除 , 直到六到七個早上才出現 。
anyway , the pooch gets back to the dirigible with the stuff .	總之 , 糞便會把這些東西挖回去 。
unfortunately , when she goes to unwrap the prosciutto , ajax makes a lunge for it .	不幸的是 , 當她去解開口號時 , ajax會為它做午餐 。
she's managed to save the prosciutto , but in the process she loses the tablecloth , which you can see flying away in the upper lefthand corner .	她成功地拯救了學科 , 但在她失去了桌布 , 你可以看到在左上角飛走 。
they continue without their tablecloth , looking for a place to land this thing so that they can actually have lunch .	他們沒有桌布 , 找一個地方降落這東西 , 這樣他們才能真的有午餐 。
they eventually discover a huge wall that's filled with small holes , ideal for docking a dirigible because you've got a place to tie up .	他們最終發現了一道巨大的牆 , 裡面充滿了小洞 , 理想的把一個負責的牆 , 因為你有地方可以綁起來 。
turns out to be the exterior wall that part of it that remains of the coliseum , so they park themselves there and have a terrific lunch and have a spectacular view .	原來是柱子剩下的外牆 , 所以他們自己停在那裡 , 吃了很棒的午餐 , 看了很壯觀的看法 。
at the end of lunch , they untie the anchor , they set off through the baths of caracalla and over the walls of the city and then an abandoned gatehouse and decide to take one more look at the pyramid of cestius , which has this lightning rod on top .	在午餐結束時 , 他們解開了主鎖 , 他們打開了卡卡拉的浴室 , 穿過城市的牆 , 接著是一間廢棄的房屋 , 決定再看一眼凱斯蒂斯的金字塔 , 上面有著閃電的捲 。
unfortunately , that's a problem: they get a little too close , and when you're in a dirigible you have to be very careful about spikes .	不幸的是 , 這是個問題:它們太靠近了 , 當你處在一個你必須非常小心尖峰的旅程中 。
so that sort of brings her little story to a conclusion .	所以 , 這就把她的小故事帶到一個結論上 。
marcello , on the other hand , is sort of a lazy guy , but he's not due at work until about noon .	另一方面 , marcello有點懶惰 , 但直到他開始工作 。
so , the alarm goes off and it's five to 12 or so .	所以 , 警報消失了 , 大約是五到十二歲 。
he gets up , leaps onto his scooter , races through the city past the church of santa maria della pace , down the alleys , through the streets that tourists may be wandering through , disturbing the quiet backstreet life of rome at every turn .	他站起來 , 跳上了他的螺旋槳 , 穿過城市的比賽 , 穿過聖塔馬利亞•德拉的教堂 , 沿著巷子 , 遊客可能穿過街道 , 每次轉動時 , 安靜的羅馬回饋生活 。
that speed with which he is moving , i hope i have suggested in this little image , which , again , can be turned around and read from both sides because there's text on the bottom and text on the top , one of which is upside down in this image .	他移動的速度 , 我希望我在這張圖片上建議 , 同樣的 , 可以從兩邊轉過來 , 從兩邊看 , 因為底部的文字和上面的文字 , 其中之一是反面的 。
so , he keeps on moving , approaching an unsuspecting waiter who is trying to deliver two plates of linguine in a delicate white wine clam sauce to diners who are sitting at a table just outside of a restaurant in the street .	所以 , 他繼續走下去 , 接近一名毫無疑問的服務生 , 他試圖在一間精緻的白酒杯醬料中 , 送兩張白酒杯醬給坐在一桌外的餐廳的餐廳 。
waiter catches on , but it's too late .	服務生抓住了 , 但太遲了 。
and marcello keeps moving in his scooter .	marcello一直搬進他的小屋裡 。
everything he sees from this point on is slightly affected by the linguine , but keeps on moving because this guy's got a job to do .	從這點 , 他看到的一切都有點受到語言學影響 , 但繼續前進 , 因為這個人有工作要做 。
removes some scaffolding . one of the reasons rome remains the extraordinary place it is that because of scaffolding and the determination to maintain the fabric , it is a city that continues to grow and adapt to the needs of the particular time in which it finds itself , or we find it .	移除一些支架 , 羅馬仍然是不平凡的地方之一 , 是因為支架和決心要維持布料 , 城市持續成長 , 適應特定時間需求的需求 , 或我們發現它 。
right through the piazza della rotonda , in front of the pantheon again wreaking havoc and finally getting to work .	穿過普利薩•德拉•羅頓達 , 在萬神殿前 , 又再次破壞了 , 終於到達了工作 。
marcello , as it turns out , is the driver of the number 64 bus , and if you've been on the number 64 bus , you know that it's driven with the same kind of exuberance as marcello demonstrated on his scooter .	結果發現 , marcello是64輛公車的司機 , 如果你參加了64輛公車 , 你知道它開車和marcello在他的分數上展示的一樣 。
and finally carletto . you see his apartment in the upper lefthand corner .	最後 , 卡萊托 。 你看到他的公寓在左上角 。
he's looking at his table ; he's planning to propose this evening to his girlfriend of 40 years , and he wants it to be perfect .	他在看他的桌子 ; 他打算要向他的女朋友提出這個計畫 , 要花四十年的時間 , 他希望它能完美 。
he's got candles out , he's got flowers in the middle and he's trying to figure out where to put the plates and the glasses .	他拿出蠟燭 , 中間有一朵花 , 他想辦法把盤子和玻璃放在哪裡 。
but he's not happy ; something's wrong .	但他不高興 , 有些事是錯的 。
the phone rings anyway , he's called to the palazzo .	總之 , 電話響了 , 他被叫到palazzo 。
he saunters he saunters at a good clip , but as compared to all the traveling we've just seen , he's sauntering .	他接觸了一段很棒的短片 , 但和我們剛剛看到的旅程相比 , 他在散步 。
everybody knows carletto , because he's in entertainment , actually ; he's in television .	大家都知道carleto , 因為他在娛樂 , 他在電視上 。
he's actually in television repair , which is why people know him .	他其實是在電視修復中 , 這就是為什麼人們認識他 。
so they all have his number .	所以他們都有他的數字 。
he arrives at the palazzo , arrives at the big front door .	他抵達了帕拉佐索 , 到達了大門 。
enters the courtyard and talks to the custodian , who tells him that there's been a disaster in the palazzo ; nobody's tvs are working and there's a big soccer game coming up , and the crowd is getting a little restless and a little nervous .	進入庭院 , 和顧客談話 , 他告訴他 , 在帕拉索有場災難 ; 沒有人在電視上工作 , 有一場很大的足球比賽來了 , 群眾變得有點不安靜 , 有點緊張 。
he goes down to the basement and starts to check the wiring , and then gradually works his way up to the top of the building , apartment by apartment , checking every television , checking every connection , hoping to find out what this problem is .	他走到地下室 , 開始檢查這些線路 , 然後漸漸地 , 走到建築頂端 , 公寓旁 , 檢查每個電視 , 檢查每一條連結 , 希望找出這個問題是什麼 。
he works his way up , finally , the grand staircase and then a smaller staircase until he reaches the attic .	他在路上工作 , 最後 , 大樓梯 , 接著是小樓梯 , 直到他抵達閣樓 。
he opens the window of the attic , of course , and there's a tablecloth wrapped around the building's television antenna .	他打開閣樓的窗戶 , 當然還有一張桌布包圍著建築物的電視天線 。
he removes it , the problems are solved , everybody in the palazzo is happy .	他移除它 , 問題解決了 , 帕拉zzo的每個人都很開心 。
and of course , he also solves his own problem .	當然 , 他也解決了他自己的問題 。
all he has to do now , with a perfect table , is wait for her to arrive .	他現在只需要用一張完美的桌子 , 等著她抵達 。
that was the first attempt , but it didn't seem substantial enough to convey whatever it was i wanted to convey about rome .	那是第一次嘗試 , 但似乎不夠大 , 可以傳達我想要傳達的關於羅馬的訊息 。
so i thought , well , i'll just do piazzas , and i'll get inside and underneath and i'll show these things growing and show why they're shaped the way they are and so on .	所以我想 , 好吧 , 我就來做piazzas , 然後我會進到裡面 , 然後我會展示這些東西的成長 , 展示它們為什麼會改變它們的形狀等等 。
and then i thought , that's too complicated . no , i'll just take my favorite bits and pieces and i'll put them inside the pantheon but keep the scale , so you can see the top of sant'ivo and the pyramid of cestius and the tempietto of bramante all side by side in this amazing space .	然後我想 , 這太複雜了 。 不 , 我會把我最喜歡的位元和碎片放進萬神廟裡 , 讓它保持尺度 , 這樣你就能看到西雅圖的頂端 , 西斯蒂烏斯的金字塔 , 以及巴曼特的溫度 , 全都排在這個美妙的空間中 。
now that's one drawing , so i thought maybe it's time for piranesi to meet escher .	這只是一張圖 , 所以我想也許是皮蘭西認識escher的時候了 。
you see that i'm beginning to really lose control here and also hope .	你看 , 我已經開始失去控制權了 , 也失去希望了 。
there's a very thin blue line of exhaust that sort of runs through this thing that would be kind of the trail that holds it all together .	有一條非常薄的藍色路線 , 有點像是穿過這條路 , 讓它整合在一起 。
then i thought , " wait a minute , what am i doing ? "	然後我想: 「 等等 , 我在做什麼 ? 」
a book is not only a neat way of collecting and storing information , it's a series of layers .	書不只是收集和儲存資訊的方式 , 它是一系列的層次 。
i mean , you always peel one layer off another ; we think of them as pages , doing it a certain way .	我的意思是 , 你總是把一層一層剝下來 ; 我們認為他們是網頁 , 用某種方式去做 。
but think of them as layers . i mean , rome is a place of layers horizontal layers , vertical layers and i thought , well just peeling off a page would allow me to if i got you thinking about it the right way would allow me to sort of show you the depth of layers .	但把它們想成層次 。 我的意思是 , 羅馬是層層層層的地層 , 垂直層 , 我想 , 只要把頁面撕下來 , 就會讓我用正確的方式來思考 , 讓我來展示層層的深度 。
the stucco on the walls of most of the buildings in rome covers the scars ; the scars of centuries of change as these structures have been adapted rather than being torn down .	羅馬大部份建築的牆壁都包含了疤痕 ; 數世紀以來 , 改變的疤痕已經被改造而不是被撕裂 。
if i do a foldout page on the lefthand side and let you just unfold it , you see behind it what i mean by scar tissue .	如果我在左手邊做一個摺疊頁 , 讓你剛剛展開 , 你可以看到我所說的傷疤組織背後的意義 。
you can see that in 1635 , it became essential to make smaller windows because the bad guys were coming or whatever .	你可以看到在1635年 , 讓小窗戶變得很重要 , 因為壞人來了 , 等等 。
adaptations all get buried under the stucco .	所有的適應都被埋在黏土下 。
i could peel out a page of this palazzo to show you what's going on inside of it .	我可以把這個帕拉佐索的一頁向你們展示裡面發生了什麼事 。
but more importantly , i could also show you what it looks like at the corner of one of those magnificent buildings with all the massive stone blocks , or the fake stone blocks done with brick and stucco , which is more often the case .	更重要的是 , 我也能向你們展示這些壯麗的建築 , 那些巨大的石頭積木 , 或用磚塊做成的假石塊 , 通常是這樣 。
so it becomes slightly threedimensional .	所以它變得有點三維 。
i could take you down one of those narrow little streets into one of those surprising piazzas by using a double gate fold double foldout page which , if you were like me reading a popup book as a child , you hopefully stick your head into .	我可以把其中一個狹窄的小街道帶到一個令人驚訝的廣場上 , 用雙層的摺疊紙 , 如果你和我一樣小時候讀了一本跳躍的書 , 你希望你能把頭伸進去 。
you wrap the pages around your head and are in that piazza for that brief period of time .	你把頭上的頁面纏繞在那短暫的時間裡 。
and i've really not done anything much more complicated than make foldout pages .	我真的沒有做任何比摺紙更複雜的東西 。
but then i thought , maybe i could be simpler here .	但接著我想 , 也許我可以簡單些 。
let's look at the pantheon and the piazza della rotonda in front of it .	咱們來看看萬神廟和前面的廣場廣場德拉•羅頓達 。
here's a book completely wide open .	這本書完全打開了 。
ok , if i don't open the book the whole way , if i just open it 90 degrees , we're looking down the front of the pantheon , and we're looking sort of at the top , more or less down on the square .	好 , 如果我不打開這本書 , 如果我打開它90度 , 我們就在萬神廟的前面 , 我們會看到有點像在上面 , 下方多或少 。
and if i turn the book the other way , we're looking across the square at the front of the pantheon .	如果我換個角度看這本書 , 我們在萬神廟的前方看了看 。
no foldouts , no tricks just a book that isn't open the whole way .	沒有摺紙 , 沒有把戲 , 只是一本完全沒有打開的書 。
that seemed promising . i thought , maybe i'll do it inside and i can even combine the foldouts with the only partially opened book .	這聽起來很有前景 。 我心想 , 也許我會在裡面做 , 我甚至可以把摺疊結合 , 再加上唯一的部分打開的書 。
so we get inside the pantheon and it grows and so on and so forth .	所以 , 我們進入萬神殿 , 它會不斷成長 , 諸如此類 。
and i thought , maybe i'm on the right track , but it sort of lost its human quality .	我想 , 也許我站在正確的軌道上 , 但這有點像是失去了人類的特質 。
so i went back to the notion of story , which is always a good thing to have if you're trying to get people to pay attention to a book and pick up information along the way .	所以 , 我回到故事的概念 , 如果你想要讓大家注意書 , 並在過程中取得信息 。
" pigeon's progress " struck me as a catchy title .	「 鴿子的進步 」 震驚了我是個抓住頭銜 。
if it was a homing pigeon , it would be called " homer's odyssey . "	如果牠是一隻蜂鳥 , 牠就會被稱為 「 荷馬的奇怪 」 。
but it was the journey of the . . .	但那是那趟旅程......
i mean , if a title works , use it . but it would be a journey that went through rome and showed all the things that i like about rome .	我的意思是 , 如果一個標題成功了 , 用它 。 但這會是一趟探訪羅馬的旅程 , 展示了我喜歡的羅馬 。
it's a pigeon sitting on top of a church .	它是坐在教堂的上方的鴿子 。
goes off during the day and does normal pigeon stuff . comes back , the whole place is covered with scaffolding and green netting and there's no way this pigeon can get home .	白天離開 , 做正常的鴿子 , 回來了 , 整個地方充滿了支架和綠色的網子 , 沒有辦法回家 。
so it's a homeless pigeon now and it's going to have to find another place to live , and that allows me to go through my catalog of favorite things , and we start with the tall ones and so on .	所以現在是無家可歸的鴿子 , 它必須找到另一個居住的地方 , 這讓我可以通過我最愛的目錄 , 我們從高高的鴿開始 。
maybe it has to go back and live with family members ; that's not always a good thing , but it does sort of bring pigeons together again .	也許它必須回去和家人住在一起 , 這不一定是件好事 , 但它確實能把鴿子帶回來 。
and i thought , that's sort of interesting , but maybe there's a person who should be involved in this in some way .	我心想 , 這有點有趣 , 但也許有一個人應該以某種方式參與其中 。
so i kind of came up with this old guy who spends his life looking after sick pigeons .	所以我想出了一個老傢伙 , 他在照顧生病的鴿子 。
he'll go anywhere to get them dangerous places and whatnot and they become really friends with this guy , and learn to do tricks for him and entertain him at lunchtime and stuff like that .	他會去任何地方 , 讓他們有危險的地方 , 什麼也沒有 , 他們會和這個傢伙成為真正的朋友 , 學會欺騙他 , 並在午餐時間娛樂他之類的 。
there's a real bond that develops between this old man and these pigeons .	在這老人和這些鴿子之間 , 有一個真實的連結 。
but unfortunately he gets sick . he gets really sick at the end of the story .	但不幸的是 , 他生病了 。 他在故事結束時就生病了 。
he's taught them to spell his name , which is aldo .	他被教導他們拼寫他的名字 , 也就是aldo 。
they show up one day after three or four days of not seeing him he lives in this little garret and they spell his name and fly around .	他們在三四天後出現 , 看不見他 , 他住在這個小車庫裡 , 拼了他的名字 , 四處飛來飛去 。
and he finally gets enough strength together to climb up the ladder onto the roof , and all the pigeons , a la red balloon , are there waiting for him and they carry him off over the walls of the city .	他終於得到了足夠的力量 , 把梯子爬到屋頂上 , 所有的鴿子、紅色氣球等著他 , 他們把他帶到城市的牆上 。
and i forgot to mention this: whenever he lost a pigeon , he would take that pigeon out beyond the walls of the city .	我忘了提一下:每當他失去一隻鴿子時 , 他就會把那隻鴿子帶到城市的牆外 。
in the old roman custom , the dead were never buried within the walls .	在古老的羅馬習俗中 , 死者從來沒有被埋在牆裡 。
and i thought that's a really cheery story .	我想這是個很歡迎的故事 。
. that's really going to go a long way .	這真的會很長一段時間 。
so anyway , i went through . . . and again , if packaging doesn't work and if the stories aren't going anywhere , i just come up with titles and hope that a title will sort of kick me off in the right direction .	所以 , 總之 , 我經歷了......再一次 , 如果包裝沒有用 , 如果故事沒去 , 我就想出了頭銜 , 希望頭銜會把我踢出正確的方向 。
and sometimes it does focus me enough and i'll even do a title page .	有時候它會讓我專注在上面 , 我甚至會做一個標題頁 。
so , these are all title pages that eventually led me to the solution i settled on , which is the story of a young woman who sends a message on a homing pigeon she lives outside the walls of the city of rome to someone in the city .	所以 , 這些都是標題頁面 , 最終引領我去解決方案 , 這也是一個年輕女子的故事 , 她把信息傳遞給她住在羅馬城外圍的人的故事 。
and the pigeon is flying down above the appian way here .	鴿子在飛行的上方飛越平行 。
you can see the tombs and pines and so on and so forth along the way .	你可以看到墳墓、松木等等 。
if you see the red line , you are seeing the trail of the pigeon ; if you don't see the red line , you are the pigeon .	如果你看到紅線 , 你就會看到鴿子的軌跡 ; 如果你看不見紅線 , 你就是鴿子 。
and it becomes necessary and possible , at this point , to try to convey what that sense would be like of flying over the city without actually moving .	在這個時點 , 它變得是必要且可能的 , 試著傳達出那種飛越城市的感覺 , 而不是真的在移動 。
past the pyramid of cestius these will seem very familiar to you , even if you haven't been to rome recently past the gatehouse .	越過了凱斯提烏斯的金字塔 , 這對你來說似乎很熟悉 , 即使你最近沒去過羅馬 。
this is something that's a little bit unusual .	這是有點不尋常的事 。
this pigeon does something that most homing pigeons do not do: it takes the scenic route , which was a device that i felt was necessary to actually extend this book beyond about four pages .	這種鴿子做一些最常謀殺的鴿子做不到的事:它要走上一路 , 那是我覺得需要的裝置 , 才能把這本書延伸到四頁以外 。
so , we circle around the coliseum , past the church of santa maria in cosmedin and the temple of hercules towards the river .	所以 , 我們圍繞著哥倫比亞的哥倫比亞教堂 , 穿越了聖瑪利亞的教堂 , 和海克力斯的神殿 , 朝向河邊 。
we almost collide with the cornice of the palazzo farnese designed by michelangelo , built of stone taken from the coliseum narrow escape .	我們幾乎和米開朗基羅的帕拉索法尼斯所設計的玉米花幾乎碰撞 , 建造的石頭是從哥倫比亞的逃離中拍下來的 。
we swoop down over the campo de' fiori .	我們沿著campodefiori下滑 。
this is one of those things i show to my students because it's a complete bastardization a denial of any rules of perspective .	這是我向學生展示的其中一件事 , 因為這是完全的禁止 , 否認任何觀點的規則 。
the only rule of perspective that i think matters is if it looks believable , you've succeeded .	我認為唯一重要的規則是 , 如果它看起來是可信的 , 你成功了 。
but you try and figure out where the vanishing points meet here ; a couple are on mars and a couple of others in cremona .	但你試著找出這裡消失的點在哪裡 ; 在火星上還有一些其他的火星 。
but into the piazza in front of santa maria della pace , where invariably a soccer game is going on , and we're hit by a soccer ball .	但在聖塔馬利亞的前面 , 在那裏 , 一場足球比賽正在進行 , 我們被足球擊中 。
now this is a terrible illustration of being hit by a soccer ball .	這是一個被足球撞擊的可怕插圖 。
i have all the pieces: there's santa maria della pace , there's a soccer ball , there's a little bit of a bird's wing nothing's happening , so i had to rethink it .	我有所有的碎片:有聖塔•德拉的速度 , 有一顆足球 , 有一小隻鳥的翅膀沒有發生 , 所以我得要重新思考 。
and if you do want to see santa maria della pace , these books are really flexible , incredibly interactive just turn it around and look at it the other way .	如果你想看到聖塔•德拉的速度 , 這些書是很靈活、非常互動的 , 只要把它轉過來 , 再看它 。
through the alley , we can see the impact is captured in the red line .	透過巷子 , 我們可以看到紅線被捕捉 。
and then bird manages to pull itself together past this medieval tower one of the few remaining medieval towers towards the church of sant'agnese and around the dome looking down into piazza navona which we've already mentioned and seen and flown over a couple of times ; there's the bernini statue of the four rivers and then past the wonderful borromini sant'ivo , stopping just long enough on the 26foot diameter oculus of the pantheon to catch our breath .	接著 , 鳥類會把自己拉過這棟中世紀的高塔 , 只有少數幾個中世紀的高塔 , 前往聖祖國教堂 , 繞著圓頂向下 , 向下看 , 看了幾次 , 我們已經看過了 , 經過了四條河流的伯尼 , 穿過了很棒的布羅米諾伊諾尼的聖誕節 , 停止在26英尺長的時間內 , 停止在我們呼吸的第十六英尺長 。
and then we can swoop inside and around ; and because we're flying , we don't really have to worry about gravity at this particular moment in time , so this drawing can be oriented in any way on the page .	接著 , 我們可以在裡面轉動 , 因為我們飛行 , 我們不用擔心在這個特定時刻的地心引力 , 所以這張圖可以在任何頁面上找到方向 。
we get a little exuberant as we pass gesu ; it's not surprising to sort of mimic the architecture in this way .	當我們經過gesu時 , 我們會有點生氣 ; 用這種方式模仿建築並不讓人意外 。
past the wonderful wall filled with the juxtaposition that i was talking about ; beautiful carvings set into the walls above the neon " ristorante " sign , and so on .	越過了美妙的牆 , 我剛剛提到的節奏 , 美麗的雕刻就在尼龍 「 崛起 」 標誌之上 , 諸如此類 。
and eventually , we arrive at the courtyard of the palazzo , which is our destination .	最終 , 我們抵達了帕拉索的庭院 , 那是我們的目的地 。
straight up through the courtyard into a little window into the attic , where somebody is working at the drawing board .	直接穿過庭院 , 進入一個小窗戶 , 進入閣樓 , 有人在畫板上工作 。
he removes the message from the leg of the bird ; this is what it says .	他從鳥的腿上移除訊息 , 這就是它所說的 。
as we look at the drawing board , we see what he's working on is , in fact , a map of the journey that the pigeon has just taken , and the red line extends through all the sights .	當我們看著畫板 , 我們看到他正在努力的實際上 , 是鴿子剛剛拍攝的地圖 , 紅線延伸到所有的視野 。
and if you want the information , so that we complete this cycle of understanding , all you have to do is read these paragraphs .	如果你想要這些資訊 , 所以我們完成了這個理解的循環 , 你只要讀一下這些段落 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝各位 。
mit researcher skylar tibbits works on selfassembly the idea that instead of building something , we can create materials that build themselves , much the way a strand of dna zips itself together . it's a big concept at early stages ; tibbits shows us three inthelab projects that hint at what a selfassembling future might look like .	麻省理工學院研究員skylarbitits在自我組裝上運作 , 與其建造一些東西 , 我們能創造出能自己建構的材料 , 如同一股dnazips本身 。 這是在早期的階段 ; tibbit向我們展示了三項專案 , 暗示了自我組裝未來可能的樣子 。
skylar tibbits: can we make things that make themselves ?	天花斑斑斑斑海兔:我們能製造自己製造的東西嗎 ?
today i'd like to show you the future of the way we make things .	今天我想向各位展示我們製造東西的方式的未來 。
i believe that soon our buildings and machines will be selfassembling , replicating and repairing themselves .	我相信 , 很快我們的建築物和機器就會自我組裝、複製、修復自己 。
so i'm going to show you what i believe is the current state of manufacturing , and then compare that to some natural systems .	所以 , 我要向你們展示我相信的 , 是目前製造業的狀態 , 然後將它和一些自然系統做比較 。
so in the current state of manufacturing , we have skyscrapers two and a half years [of assembly time] , 500 , 000 to a million parts , fairly complex , new , exciting technologies in steel , concrete , glass .	在目前的製造業狀態 , 我們有摩天大樓兩年半的時間組裝時間 , 五十萬到一百萬個零件 , 相當複雜、令人興奮的科技 , 鋼鐵、混凝土、玻璃 。
we have exciting machines that can take us into space five years [of assembly time] , 2 . 5 million parts .	我們有令人興奮的機器可以帶我們進入太空五年--[組裝時間]250萬個部分 。
but on the other side , if you look at the natural systems , we have proteins that have two million types , can fold in 10 , 000 nanoseconds , or dna with three billion base pairs we can replicate in roughly an hour .	但另一方面 , 如果你看一下自然系統 , 我們有兩百萬種類型的蛋白質 , 可以在一萬奈秒或dna中摺出三十億鹼基對 , 我們可以在大約一小時內複製 。
so there's all of this complexity in our natural systems , but they're extremely efficient , far more efficient than anything we can build , far more complex than anything we can build .	在我們的自然系統中 , 都有這種複雜性 , 但它們非常有效率 , 遠遠超過我們所能建造的任何東西 , 遠超過我們所能建造的任何複雜 。
they're far more efficient in terms of energy .	在能源方面 , 它們更有效率 。
they hardly ever make mistakes .	他們幾乎沒有犯錯 。
and they can repair themselves for longevity .	他們可以長壽地修復自己 。
so there's something super interesting about natural systems .	所以 , 天然系統有趣之處 。
and if we can translate that into our built environment , then there's some exciting potential for the way that we build things .	如果我們可以把它翻譯成我們的建築環境 , 那麼我們建造東西的方式有一些令人振奮的潛力 。
and i think the key to that is selfassembly .	我認為關鍵在於自我組裝 。
so if we want to utilize selfassembly in our physical environment , i think there's four key factors .	所以 , 如果我們想要在我們的物理環境中利用自我組裝 , 我認為有四個關鍵因素 。
the first is that we need to decode all of the complexity of what we want to build so our buildings and machines .	首先 , 我們需要解碼我們想要建造的東西的複雜性 , 以讓我們的建築和機器 。
and we need to decode that into simple sequences basically the dna of how our buildings work .	我們需要將它解碼成簡單的序列基本上就是我們的建築如何運作的dna 。
then we need programmable parts that can take that sequence and use that to fold up , or reconfigure .	接著 , 我們需要可編寫的零件 , 可以將這些序列拿來摺疊 , 或重新組裝 。
we need some energy that's going to allow that to activate , allow our parts to be able to fold up from the program .	我們需要一些能量來啟動它 , 讓我們的部件能夠從這個程式中折疊 。
and we need some type of error correction redundancy to guarantee that we have successfully built what we want .	我們需要一種錯誤的修正方式 , 來確保我們成功地建造我們想要的東西 。
so i'm going to show you a number of projects that my colleagues and i at mit are working on to achieve this selfassembling future .	所以 , 我要給你們看幾個項目 , 是我同事和我在麻省理工學院的同事 , 致力完成這個自我組裝的未來 。
the first two are the macrobot and decibot .	前兩種是macrobot和decibot 。
so these projects are largescale reconfigurable robots 8 ft . , 12 ft . long proteins .	這些專案是大規模的可重建機器人8英尺 , 12英尺長的蛋白質 。
they're embedded with mechanical electrical devices , sensors .	它們被機械電裝置 , 感應器嵌入 。
you decode what you want to fold up into , into a sequence of angles so negative 120 , negative 120 , 0 , 0 , 120 , negative 120 something like that ; so a sequence of angles , or turns , and you send that sequence through the string .	解碼你想要摺疊成一連串的角度 , 負120 , 負120 , 120 , 120 , 120 , 120 , 負120種類似的東西 ; 所以一連串的角度 , 或轉向 , 然後你將這個序列的序列發送給弦 。
each unit takes its message so negative 120 it rotates to that , checks if it got there and then passes it to its neighbor .	每個單位都收集它的訊息 , 如此負120次 , 它轉到那邊 , 檢查是否到那裡 , 然後把它傳給鄰居 。
so these are the brilliant scientists , engineers , designers that worked on this project .	這些是傑出的科學家 , 工程師 , 設計師 , 在這個專案上工作 。
and i think it really brings to light: is this really scalable ?	我認為它真的會帶來光明:這是真的可擴展的嗎 ?
i mean , thousands of dollars , lots of man hours made to make this eightfoot robot .	我的意思是 , 數千美元 , 許多人為了製作這八英尺的機器人 。
can we really scale this up ? can we really embed robotics into every part ?	我們真的能把這個規模擴大嗎 ? 我們能把機器人嵌入每一個部分嗎 ?
the next one questions that and looks at passive nature , or passively trying to have reconfiguration programmability .	下一個問題是 , 看著被動的自然 , 或被動地嘗試重新組裝程式性 。
but it goes a step further , and it tries to have actual computation .	但它進一步更進一步 , 它嘗試有實際的計算 。
it basically embeds the most fundamental building block of computing , the digital logic gate , directly into your parts .	基本上 , 它嵌入了電腦最基本的基礎組成元素 , 數位邏輯門 , 直接嵌入你的部分 。
so this is a nand gate .	這是一個nand門 。
you have one tetrahedron which is the gate that's going to do your computing , and you have two input tetrahedrons .	你有一個四面體 , 就是門用來計算 , 你有兩個四面體 。
one of them is the input from the user , as you're building your bricks .	其中之一是使用者的輸入 , 當你在建造你的磚塊時 。
the other one is from the previous brick that was placed .	另外一個是從前一塊被安置的磚塊 。
and then it gives you an output in 3d space .	接著 , 它會給你3d空間的輸出 。
so what this means is that the user can start plugging in what they want the bricks to do .	意思是 , 使用者可以開始把他們想要的磚塊黏起來 。
it computes on what it was doing before and what you said you wanted it to do .	它計算了它之前的做法 , 你說你想要它做什麼 。
and now it starts moving in threedimensional space so up or down .	現在它開始在三維空間中移動 , 以上或下 。
so on the lefthand side , [1 , 1] input equals 0 output , which goes down .	在左手邊 , [1 , 1]輸入等於0的輸出 , 下降了 。
on the righthand side , [0 , 0] input is a 1 output , which goes up .	在右手邊 , [0 , 0]輸入是1 , 上升 。
and so what that really means is that our structures now contain the blueprints of what we want to build .	這意味著我們的結構現在包含了我們想要建造的藍圖 。
so they have all of the information embedded in them of what was constructed .	所以他們所有的資訊都嵌入在他們身上 , 說明了什麼是建構出來的 。
so that means that we can have some form of selfreplication .	這意味著我們可以有某種形式的自我複製 。
in this case i call it selfguided replication , because your structure contains the exact blueprints .	在這個案例中 , 我稱之為自我複製 , 因為你的結構含有確切的藍圖 。
if you have errors , you can replace a part .	如果你有錯誤 , 你可以取代一部分 。
all the local information is embedded to tell you how to fix it .	所有當地的資訊都被嵌入來告訴你如何修復它 。
so you could have something that climbs along and reads it and can output at one to one .	所以你可以有爬上去讀到的東西 , 並且可以輸出一個到一個 。
it's directly embedded ; there's no external instructions .	它是直接嵌入的 , 沒有外部的指令 。
so the last project i'll show is called biased chains , and it's probably the most exciting example that we have right now of passive selfassembly systems .	我接下來要展示的最後一個專案叫做 「 偏見鏈 」 , 它可能是我們現在最令人興奮的例子 , 自動組裝系統 。
so it takes the reconfigurability and programmability and makes it a completely passive system .	所以 , 它需要可重組性和可編程性 , 讓它變成完全被動的系統 。
so basically you have a chain of elements .	基本上你有一連串的元素 。
each element is completely identical , and they're biased .	每個元素都是完全相同的 , 且它們是偏見的 。
so each chain , or each element , wants to turn right or left .	所以每一個鏈 , 或每個元素 , 都想要左轉或左轉 。
so as you assemble the chain , you're basically programming it .	所以當你組裝鏈 , 基本上你在編寫它 。
you're telling each unit if it should turn right or left .	你在告訴每個單位是否應該向右轉或向左轉 。
so when you shake the chain , it then folds up into any configuration that you've programmed in so in this case , a spiral , or in this case , two cubes next to each other .	所以當你搖動鏈 , 它會折疊成任何你編寫過的構造 , 在這個案例中 , 或在這個案例中 , 兩個立方體彼此相鄰 。
so you can basically program any threedimensional shape or onedimensional , twodimensional up into this chain completely passively .	基本上 , 你可以設計任何立體形狀或維度形狀 , 二維空間完全被動地進入這條鏈 。
so what does this tell us about the future ?	所以 , 這告訴我們什麼樣的未來 ?
i think that it's telling us that there's new possibilities for selfassembly , replication , repair in our physical structures , our buildings , machines .	我認為它告訴我們 , 自我組裝、複製、修復、修復我們的實體結構、建築、機器 。
there's new programmability in these parts .	這些部分有新的程式性 。
and from that you have new possibilities for computing .	從那之後你就有了新的計算能力 。
we'll have spatial computing .	我們會有空間計算 。
imagine if our buildings , our bridges , machines , all of our bricks could actually compute .	想像一下 , 如果我們的建築物、橋樑、機器 , 我們所有的磚塊都可以計算 。
that's amazing parallel and distributed computing power , new design possibilities .	那是很驚人的平行和分配運算能力 , 新的設計可能性 。
so it's exciting potential for this .	所以這很讓人興奮 。
so i think these projects i've showed here are just a tiny step towards this future , if we implement these new technologies for a new selfassembling world .	所以 , 我認為我在這裡展示的這些項目只是邁向這個未來的一小步 , 如果我們把這些新科技應用在一個新的自我組裝世界上 。
we've been to the moon , we've mapped the continents , we've even been to the deepest point in the ocean twice . what's left for the next generation to explore ? biologist and explorer nathan wolfe suggests this answer: almost everything . and we can start , he says , with the world of the unseeably small .	我們去過月球 , 我們繪製了非洲大陸 , 我們已經在海底深處了兩次 。 下一代去探索的是什麼 ? 生物學家和探險家納森•沃夫斯建議了這個答案:幾乎每一樣 。 我們都可以開始 , 他說 , 和不穩定的小世界 。
biodiversity , exploration , microbiology , science	生物多樣性 , 探索 , 微生物學 , 科學科學 ,
nathan wolfe: what's left to explore ?	nathanwolfe:還有什麼可以探索的 ?
recently i visited beloit , wisconsin .	最近我造訪了威斯康辛的地點 。
and i was there to honor a great 20th century explorer , roy chapman andrews .	我在那裡向一位偉大的二十世紀探險家羅伊•查普曼•安德魯斯致敬 。
during his time at the american museum of natural history , andrews led a range of expeditions to uncharted regions , like here in the gobi desert .	在他在美國自然歷史博物館的期間 , 安德魯斯帶領了一系列的探險 , 前往未知的區域 , 例如在戈比沙漠 。
he was quite a figure .	他是個很棒的人物 。
he was later , it's said , the basis of the indiana jones character .	他說 , 他後來是印第安納瓊斯的角色 。
and when i was in beloit , wisconsin , i gave a public lecture to a group of middle school students .	當我在威斯康辛的地下時 , 我給了一群中學學生一份公開演說 。
and i'm here to tell you , if there's anything more intimidating than talking here at ted , it'll be trying to hold the attention of a group of a thousand 12yearolds for a 45minute lecture .	我來這裡告訴各位 , 如果在ted演講中 , 有什麼事會比現在更嚇人 , 它會試著注意到一千十二歲的孩子 , 為了一個45分鐘的演講 ,
at the end of the lecture they asked a number of questions , but there was one that's really stuck with me since then .	在演講結束後 , 他們問了幾個問題 , 但在那之後 , 有個問題讓我很困擾 。
there was a young girl who stood up , and she asked the question: " where should we explore ? "	有位年輕女孩站起來 , 她問了這個問題: 「 我們該去哪裡探索 ? 」
i think there's a sense that many of us have that the great age of exploration on earth is over , that for the next generation they're going to have to go to outer space or the deepest oceans in order to find something significant to explore .	我想我們很多人有一種感覺 , 地球上探索的偉大時代已經結束了 , 在下一代 , 他們必須去外太空 , 或深海 , 才能找到重要的探索 。
but is that really the case ?	但真的是這樣嗎 ?
is there really nowhere significant for us to explore left here on earth ?	我們真的沒有什麼東西可以讓我們在地球上探索嗎 ?
it sort of made me think back to one of my favorite explorers in the history of biology .	這讓我回想到生物學史上我最喜歡的探險家之一 。
this is an explorer of the unseen world , martinus beijerinck .	這是個未知世界的探險家 , 馬丁.貝吉尼克 。
so beijerinck set out to discover the cause of tobacco mosaic disease .	所以 , beijerinck開始發現菸草病的原因 。
what he did is he took the infected juice from tobacco plants and he would filter it through smaller and smaller filters .	他的做法是從菸草植物中取出感染的果汁 , 他會用較小的濾嘴過濾過它 。
and he reached the point where he felt that there must be something out there that was smaller than the smallest forms of life that were ever known bacteria , at the time .	他直到他感覺到一定有比當時所知最小型的細菌還小的東西 。
he came up with a name for his mystery agent .	他為他的神秘經理取了名字 。
he called it the virus latin for " poison . "	他稱之為 「 毒藥 」 。
and in uncovering viruses , beijerinck really opened this entirely new world for us .	在發掘病毒的過程中 , beijerinck為我們開啟了這個全新的世界 。
we now know that viruses make up the majority of the genetic information on our planet , more than the genetic information of all other forms of life combined .	我們現在知道病毒組成了地球上大部分的基因信息 , 遠超過所有其他形式的生命形式 。
and obviously there's been tremendous practical applications associated with this world things like the eradication of smallpox , the advent of a vaccine against cervical cancer , which we now know is mostly caused by human papillomavirus .	很明顯地 , 已經有很大的實用應用 , 和這個世界有關 , 比如根除天花 , 疫苗的出現 , 與子宮頸癌的出現 , 我們現在知道大部分是由人類乳突病毒造成的 。
and beijerinck's discovery , this was not something that occurred 500 years ago .	beijerinck的發現 , 這不是500年前發生的事 。
it was a little over 100 years ago that beijerinck discovered viruses .	大約一百多年前 , beijerinck發現了病毒 。
so basically we had automobiles , but we were unaware of the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	基本上 , 我們有汽車 , 但我們不知道製造地球上大部分基因信息的生命形式 。
we now have these amazing tools to allow us to explore the unseen world things like deep sequencing , which allow us to do much more than just skim the surface and look at individual genomes from a particular species , but to look at entire metagenomes , the communities of teeming microorganisms in , on and around us and to document all of the genetic information in these species .	我們現在有很棒的工具可以讓我們探索未知的世界 , 像是深度定序 , 讓我們能做的不只是滑雪表面 , 還能從特定物種看出個別的基因組 , 看看整個微生物群落在我們身邊 , 記錄所有這些物種的基因資訊 。
we can apply these techniques to things from soil to skin and everything in between .	我們可以把這些技巧應用到土壤、皮膚、以及介於兩者之間的一切 。
in my organization we now do this on a regular basis to identify the causes of outbreaks that are unclear exactly what causes them .	在我的組織中 , 我們現在定期地做這件事 , 來找出造成它們的爆發原因 。
and just to give you a sense of how this works , imagine that we took a nasal swab from every single one of you .	為了讓各位了解這如何運作 , 想像一下 , 我們從你們每一個人身上取了一個鼻子的腫脹 。
and this is something we commonly do to look for respiratory viruses like influenza .	我們常常在尋找呼吸道病毒 , 如流感病毒 。
the first thing we would see is a tremendous amount of genetic information .	首先 , 我們會看到大量的基因信息 。
and if we started looking into that genetic information , we'd see a number of usual suspects out there of course , a lot of human genetic information , but also bacterial and viral information , mostly from things that are completely harmless within your nose .	如果我們開始研究這些遺傳信息 , 我們會看到許多普遍的嫌犯 , 當然 , 很多人類的基因信息 , 還有細菌和病毒信息 , 大多來自你鼻子內完全無害的事物 。
but we'd also see something very , very surprising .	但我們也會看到一些非常非常令人驚訝的事 。
as we started to look at this information , we would see that about 20 percent of the genetic information in your nose doesn't match anything that we've ever seen before no plant , animal , fungus , virus or bacteria .	當我們開始研究這些資訊時 , 我們會發現你的鼻子裡大約百分之二十的基因信息並不符合我們在沒有植物、動物、真菌、病毒或細菌之前所見到的任何東西 。
basically we have no clue what this is .	基本上 , 我們不知道這是什麼 。
and for the small group of us who actually study this kind of data , a few of us have actually begun to call this information biological dark matter .	對於我們這些實際研究這些資料的小組 , 我們當中有一些人開始稱之為生物暗物質 。
we know it's not anything that we've seen before ; it's sort of the equivalent of an uncharted continent right within our own genetic information .	我們知道這不是我們之前看到的任何東西 , 它有點像是我們自己的基因信息中未知的大陸 。
and there's a lot of it .	這裡有很多 。
if you think 20 percent of genetic information in your nose is a lot of biological dark matter , if we looked at your gut , up to 40 or 50 percent of that information is biological dark matter .	如果你認為你的鼻子裡有百分之二十的基因信息是許多生物暗物質如果我們看你的腸子 , 大約有百分之四十或五十的信息是生物暗物質
and even in the relatively sterile blood , around one to two percent of this information is dark matter can't be classified , can't be typed or matched with anything we've seen before .	即便在相對無菌的血液中 , 大約百分之二是暗物質無法被分類 , 無法被輸入或配對任何我們以前見過的 。
at first we thought that perhaps this was artifact .	一開始我們認為這可能是工藝品 。
these deep sequencing tools are relatively new .	這些深度定序的工具是相對新的 。
but as they become more and more accurate , we've determined that this information is a form of life , or at least some of it is a form of life .	但當它們變得越來越精確 , 我們決定了這些資訊是生命的一種形式 , 至少有些是生命的形式 。
and while the hypotheses for explaining the existence of biological dark matter are really only in their infancy , there's a very , very exciting possibility that exists: that buried in this life , in this genetic information , are signatures of as of yet unidentified life .	雖然解釋生物暗物質存在的假設僅僅是它們的初始 , 有一個非常非常令人興奮的可能存在:在生命中 , 埋藏在這些基因信息中 , 代表著尚未被辨識的生命的特徵 。
that as we explore these strings of a's , t's , c's and g's , we may uncover a completely new class of life that , like beijerinck , will fundamentally change the way that we think about the nature of biology .	當我們探索a、t、c、g的弦時 , 我們可能會發現一種全新的生命階級 , 像beijerinck , 會從根本上改變我們對生物學的本質的方式 。
that perhaps will allow us to identify the cause of a cancer that afflicts us or identify the source of an outbreak that we aren't familiar with or perhaps create a new tool in molecular biology .	或許可以讓我們辨識出癌症的成因 , 或辨識出我們不熟悉的疫情來源 , 或是製造分子生物學的新工具 。
i'm pleased to announce that , along with colleagues at stanford and caltech and ucsf , we're currently starting an initiative to explore biological dark matter for the existence of new forms of life .	我很高興地宣佈 , 和史丹佛、加州理工、加州大學和ucsf的同事一起 , 我們正在開始一項計畫 , 來探索生物暗物質 , 來探索新的生命形式的存在 。
a little over a hundred years ago , people were unaware of viruses , the forms of life that make up most of the genetic information on our planet .	大約一百多年前 , 人們不知道病毒是什麼樣的生命形式構成了地球上大部分的基因信息
a hundred years from now , people may marvel that we were perhaps completely unaware of a new class of life that literally was right under our noses .	一百年後 , 人們可能會驚嘆 , 我們可能完全沒有意識到一種全新的生活階級 , 幾乎就在我們的鼻子下 。
it's true , we may have charted all the continents on the planet and we may have discovered all the mammals that are out there , but that doesn't mean that there's nothing left to explore on earth .	沒錯 , 我們可能已經繪製了地球上所有的大陸 , 我們可能已經發現了所有的哺乳動物 , 但這並不意味著地球上沒有任何東西可以探索 。
beijerinck and his kind provide an important lesson for the next generation of explorers people like that young girl from beloit , wisconsin .	beijerinck和他的仁慈為下一代的探險家提供了很重要的一課 , 像是來自威斯康辛的年輕女孩 。
and i think if we phrase that lesson , it's something like this: don't assume that what we currently think is out there is the full story .	我認為 , 如果我們說出這一課 , 就會像這樣:不要假設我們目前所認為的 , 是全部的故事 。
go after the dark matter in whatever field you choose to explore .	不論你選擇去探索哪些領域的暗物質 。
there are unknowns all around us and they're just waiting to be discovered .	我們身邊都沒有人知道 , 他們只是等著被發現 。
legendary scientist david deutsch puts theoretical physics on the back burner to discuss a more urgent matter: the survival of our species . the first step toward solving global warming , he says , is to admit that we have a problem .	傳奇科學家大衛•狄斯奇把理論物理放在後方 , 來討論更迫切的問題:我們物種的生存 。 他說 , 解決全球暖化的第一步 , 就是承認我們有一個問題 。
climate change , cosmos , culture , environment , global issues , physics , science , technology , universe	氣候變遷、宇宙、文化、環境、全球議題、物理、科學、科技、宇宙、宇宙 。
david deutsch on our place in the cosmos	大衛破壞了我們在宇宙中的位置 。
we've been told to go out on a limb and say something surprising .	我們被告知去肢體 , 說些令人驚訝的事 。
so i'll try and do that , but i want to start with two things that everyone already knows .	我會試著這樣做 , 但我想要從大家都知道的兩件事開始 。
and the first one , in fact , is something that has been known for most of recorded history .	首先 , 事實上 , 大部分的記錄歷史都是已知的 。
and that is that the planet earth , or the solar system , or our environment or whatever , is uniquely suited to sustain our evolution or creation , as it used to be thought and our present existence , and most important , our future survival .	那就是地球、太陽系、環境 , 或其它地方 , 都是為了維持我們的演化或創造 , 如同以前所想到的、現在的存在 , 最重要的是 , 我們的未來生存 。
nowadays this idea has a dramatic name: spaceship earth .	現今這個想法有個戲劇性的名字:太空船地球 。
and the idea there is that outside the spaceship , the universe is implacably hostile , and inside is all we have , all we depend on .	理念就是 , 在太空船外 , 宇宙是不可避免的敵意 , 而在內部是我們所擁有的 , 我們所仰賴的一切 。
and we only get the one chance: if we mess up our spaceship , we've got nowhere else to go .	我們只有一個機會:如果我們搞砸了太空船 , 我們就沒有其他地方可以去 。
now , the second thing that everyone already knows is that contrary to what was believed for most of human history , human beings are not , in fact , the hub of existence .	大家早已知道的第二件事 , 與大部分人類歷史所相信的相反 , 事實上 , 人類並不是存在的中心 。
as stephen hawking famously said , we're just a chemical scum on the surface of a typical planet that's in orbit around a typical star , which is on the outskirts of a typical galaxy , and so on .	正如史蒂芬•霍金所說的 , 我們只是一個化學氣體在一個典型的星球上 , 繞著一個典型的恆星繞行軌道 , 在典型的銀河系的郊區 , 諸如此類 。
now the first of those two things that everyone knows is kind of saying that we're at a very untypical place , uniquely suited and so on , and the second one is saying that we're at a typical place .	大家所知道的這兩件事的第一件事就是說我們處在一個非常不典型的地方 , 特別適合等等 , 第二件事是說我們處在一個典型的地方 。
and especially if you regard these two as deep truths to live by and to inform your life decisions , then they seem a little bit to conflict with each other .	尤其是如果你把這兩者視為深層的真理 , 來告訴你們的人生決策 , 那麼它們似乎有點互相衝突 。
but that doesn't prevent them from both being completely false .	但這並不能讓他們完全錯誤 。
and they are . so let me start with the second one: typical . well is this a typical place ? well , let's look around , you know , and look in a random direction , and we see a wall , and chemical scum and that's not typical of the universe at all .	它們是 。 讓我從第二個例子開始 , 典型的這個地方 ? 嗯 , 咱們來看看四周 , 看看隨機的方向 , 我們看到一面牆 , 化學風景 , 這完全不是典型的宇宙 。
all you've got to do is go a few hundred miles in that same direction and look back , and you won't see any walls or chemical scum at all all you see is a blue planet . and if you go further than that , you'll see the sun , the solar system , and the stars and so on .	你只需要走幾百英哩 , 往同一個方向看 , 然後回頭看 , 你不會看到任何牆或化學風景 , 你看到的是藍色的星球 。 如果你進一步看 , 你會看到太陽 , 太陽系 , 太陽系等等 。
but that's still not typical of the universe , because stars come in galaxies .	但這還不是典型的宇宙 , 因為星星系是存在的 。
and most places in the universe , a typical place in the universe , is nowhere near any galaxies .	宇宙中的大部分地方 , 宇宙中的一個典型的地方 , 幾乎沒有任何一個星系 。
so let's go out further , till we're outside the galaxy , and look back , and yeah , there's the huge galaxy with spiral arms laid out in front of us .	讓我們再往外走 , 直到我們在銀河系之外 , 回頭看 , 是的 , 有一個巨大的銀河系 , 上面有螺旋槳在我們面前 。
and at this point we've come 100 , 000 light years from here .	在這個時點 , 我們已經從這裡來了十萬光年 。
but we're still nowhere near a typical place in the universe .	但我們仍然沒有在宇宙中一個典型的地方 。
to get to a typical place , you've got to go 1 , 000 times as far as that into intergalactic space .	要到一個典型的地方 , 你要走一千倍 , 到達星系間的空間 。
and so what does that look like ? typical .	那會是什麼樣子 ? 典型的 。
what does a typical place in the universe look like ?	宇宙中典型的地方長什麼樣子 ?
well , at enormous expense , ted has arranged a highresolution immersion virtual reality rendering of intergalactic space the view from intergalactic space .	嗯 , 在極大的花費之下 , ted已經安排了高解析度的現實 , 將星系間空間的視野從星系空間來呈現 。
so can we have the lights off , please , so we can see it ?	所以 , 我們能不能把燈關掉 , 拜託 , 看得到嗎 ?
well , not quite , not quite perfect you see , in intergalactic space intergalactic space is completely dark , pitch dark .	嗯 , 不是很完美 , 你看 , 在星系間空間中 , 空間是完全黑暗的 , 音高的黑暗 。
it's so dark that if you were to be looking at the nearest star to you , and that star were to explode as a supernova , and you were to be staring directly at it at the moment when its light reached you , you still wouldn't be able to see even a glimmer .	黑暗到如果你正盯著你最近的恆星 , 而那顆恆星被爆炸為超新星 , 你要直接盯著它看 , 當光照到你時 , 你仍然無法看見甚至是微生物 。
that's how big and how dark the universe is .	宇宙是如此的巨大和黑暗 。
and that's despite the fact that a supernova is so bright , so brilliant an event , that it would kill you stone dead at a range of several light years .	儘管事實超新星如此明亮 , 很棒的一個活動 , 它會讓你死於數光年 。
and yet from intergalactic space , it's so far away you wouldn't even see it .	然而 , 從星系間的空間 , 到目前為止 , 你根本看不到它 。
it's also very cold out there less than three degrees above absolute zero .	在絕對零度之上 , 它也非常冷 。
and it's very empty . the vacuum there is one million times less dense than the highest vacuum that our best technology on earth can currently create . so that's how different a typical place is from this place .	它是空無一物的 。 真空真空的密度比地球上最高的技術密度少了一百萬倍 。 所以 , 一般的科技是從這個地方產生的 。
and that is how untypical this place is .	這地方是如此的不典型 。
so can we have the lights back on please ? thank you .	所以 , 我們能把燈打回來嗎 ? 謝謝 。
now how do we know about an environment that's so far away , and so different , and so alien , from anything we're used to ?	我們要如何知道一個遙遠的環境 , 和我們以前所習慣的環境有所不同 ?
well , the earth our environment , in the form of us is creating knowledge .	地球我們的環境 , 以我們的形式 , 創造出知識 。
well , what does that mean ? well , look out even further than we've just been i mean from here , with a telescope and you'll see things that look like stars .	那代表什麼意思呢 ? 嗯 , 看看外面比我們剛剛提到的更遠 , 用望遠鏡來看 , 你會看到看起來像星星的東西 。
they're called " quasars . " quasars originally meant quasistellar object .	它們被稱為 「 正方 」 。 原本的意思是量子論 。
which means things that look a bit like stars . but they're not stars .	這意味著看起來有點像星星的東西 。 但它們不是星星 。
and we know what they are . billions of years ago , and billions of light years away , the material at the center of a galaxy collapsed towards a supermassive black hole .	我們知道它們是什麼 。 數十億年前 , 數十億光年之遙 , 銀河系中心的物質崩塌為超大質量的黑洞 。
and then intense magnetic fields directed some of the energy of that gravitational collapse . and some of the matter , back out in the form of tremendous jets which illuminated lobes with the brilliance of i think it's a trillion suns .	然後強烈的磁場引導了一些重力崩潰的能量 。 其中一些是以巨大的噴射機形式反映出來的 , 我認為它是一兆個太陽 。
now , the physics of the human brain could hardly be more unlike the physics of such a jet .	人類大腦的物理學幾乎不會跟噴射機的物理不一樣 。
we couldn't survive for an instant in it . language breaks down when trying to describe what it would be like in one of those jets .	我們無法立即存活下來 。 語言試圖描述其中一波噴射機的樣子 。
it would be a bit like experiencing a supernova explosion , but at pointblank range and for millions of years at a time .	這有點像在經歷超級新星爆炸 , 但在某個時間點 , 以及數百萬年 。
and yet , that jet happened in precisely such a way that billions of years later , on the other side of the universe , some bit of chemical scum could accurately describe , and model , and predict , and explain , above all there's your reference what was happening there , in reality .	然而 , 那個噴射機的確發生在數十億年後 , 在宇宙的另一邊 , 有些化學氣體可以準確地描述、模型 , 並預測 , 最重要的是你所參考的物質 , 在現實中發生了什麼事 。
the one physical system , the brain , contains an accurate working model of the other the quasar .	一個物理系統 , 一個大腦 , 有一個精確的運作模式 , 一個相對的夸薩 。
not just a superficial image of it , though it contains that as well , but an explanatory model , embodying the same mathematical relationships and the same causal structure .	不僅僅是它的膚淺形象 , 雖然它也包含了這個解釋模型 , 也包含了相同的數學關係 , 以及相同的因果結構 。
now that is knowledge . and if that weren't amazing enough , the faithfulness with which the one structure resembles the other is increasing with time . that is the growth of knowledge .	這就是知識 。 如果這還不夠精彩 , 另一種結構的信仰是隨著時間增加而增加 。 那就是知識的成長 。
so , the laws of physics have this special property .	所以 , 物理定律有特殊的特性 。
that physical objects , as unlike each other as they could possibly be , can nevertheless embody the same mathematical and causal structure and to do it more and more so over time .	這種實體物體 , 和它們可能的相對不一樣 , 不論如何體現相同的數學和因果結構 , 隨著時間不斷地進行 。
so we are a chemical scum that is different . this chemical scum has universality .	所以 , 我們是不同的化學氣體 。 這種化學氣體具有普遍性 。
its structure contains , with everincreasing precision , the structure of everything . this place , and not other places in the universe , is a hub which contains within itself the structural and causal essence of the whole of the rest of physical reality . and so , far from being insignificant , the fact that the laws of physics allow this , or even mandate that this can happen , is one of the most important things about the physical world .	它的結構包含著不斷增加的精準度 , 所有事物的結構 。 這個地方 , 而不是宇宙中的其他地方 , 一個中心本身包含了整個物理現實的結構和因果的本質 。 到目前為止 , 還忽略了物理定律 , 甚至這個定律能實現 , 是物理世界中最重要的事情之一 。
now how does the solar system and our environment , in the form of us acquire this special relationship with the rest of the universe ?	那麼 , 太陽系和環境的形式 , 在我們與宇宙其他地方的關係中 , 太陽系和我們的環境是什麼樣子 ?
well , one thing that's true about stephen hawking's remark i mean , it is true , but it's the wrong emphasis . one thing that's true about it is that it doesn't do it with any special physics . there's no special dispensation , no miracles involved . it does it simply with three things that we have here in abundance .	史蒂芬•霍金的remark是真的 , 但這是錯的 , 但它是錯誤的強調 。 一件事是 , 它沒有用任何特殊的物理 。 沒有特殊的干擾 , 沒有奇蹟涉及 。 它只用了我們在場的三件事情 。
one of them is matter , because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing . information processing is computation , computation requires a computer there's no known way of making a computer without matter .	其中一個是重要的 , 因為知識的成長是一種資訊處理的形式 。 資訊處理是計算 , 計算需要一台電腦 , 不需要知道製造電腦的方式 。
we also need energy to make the computer , and most important , to make the media in effect onto which we record the knowledge that we discover .	我們也需要精力來製造電腦 , 最重要的是 , 讓媒體對我們發現的知識產生影響 。
and then thirdly , less tangible , but just as essential for the openended creation of knowledge , of explanations , is evidence .	第三點 , 比較不具體 , 但對開放式的知識、解釋而言 , 很重要的是證據 。
now , our environment is inundated with evidence .	現在 , 我們的環境受到證據的影響 。
we happen to get round to testing , let's say , newton's law of gravity about 300 years ago .	比方說 , 我們剛好接受測試 , 大約三百年前牛頓的重力定律 。
but the evidence that we used to do that was falling down on every square meter of the earth for billions of years before that , and will continue to fall on for billions of years afterwards . and the same is true for all the other sciences .	但我們過去所做的證據是 , 地球每平方米數十億年後 , 會持續下降數十億年 , 其他科學也是如此 。
as far as we know , evidence to discover the most fundamental truths of all the sciences is here just for the taking on our planet .	據我們所知 , 發現所有科學中最基本的真理 , 只是為了我們的地球而存在 。
our location is saturated with evidence , and also with matter and energy .	我們的地點充滿了證據 , 也充滿了物質和能量 。
out in intergalactic space , those three prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge are at their lowest possible supply .	在星系間的空間中 , 這三個前提是為了開放式的知識創造 , 最低的可能供應量 。
as i said , it's empty ; it's cold ; and it's dark out there . or is it ?	正如我說的 , 它是空的 , 它是冷的 , 它是暗的 。 還是 ?
now actually , that's just another parochial misconception .	事實上 , 這只是另一個狹隘的誤解 。
because imagine a cube out there in intergalactic space , the same size as our home , the solar system . now that cube is very empty by human standards , but that still means that it contains over a million tons of matter .	想像一下 , 在星系間的空間中有一個立方體 , 和我們家一樣大 , 太陽系 。 現在這個立方體是以人類標準來看是空的 , 但仍然意味著它含有超過一百萬噸的物質 。
and a million tons is enough to make , say , a selfcontained space station , on which there's a colony of scientists that are devoted to creating an openended stream of knowledge , and so on .	例如 , 一百萬噸足以製造出一個自制的太空站 , 科學家們致力於創造一個開放式的知識流 , 諸如此類 。
now , it's way beyond present technology to even gather the hydrogen from intergalactic space and form it into other elements and so on .	除了現代科技之外 , 還能收集來自星系間空間的氫氣 , 將之形成其他元素等等 。
but the thing is , in a comprehensible universe , if something isn't forbidden by the laws of physics , then what could possibly prevent us from doing it , other than knowing how ?	但 , 重點是 , 在一個完全可理解的宇宙中 , 如果某樣東西不被物理定律禁止 , 那麼 , 除了知道怎麼辦 ?
in other words , it's a matter of knowledge , not resources .	換句話說 , 這是知識的問題 , 不是資源 。
and the same well , if we could do that we'd automatically have an energy supply , because the transmutation would be a fusion reactor and evidence ?	同樣的 , 如果我們能自動提供能源 , 因為交通是核融合反應器和證據呢 ?
well , again , it's dark out there to human senses . but all you've got to do is take a telescope , even one of presentday design , look out and you'll see the same galaxies as we do from here .	嗯 , 這跟人類的感官很暗 。 但你只需要用望遠鏡 , 即使是現今的設計之一 , 向外看 , 你會看到相同的銀河系 , 就像我們從這裡看到的一樣 。
and with a more powerful telescope , you'll be able to see stars , and planets .	有了更強大的望遠鏡 , 你可以看見恆星和行星 。
in those galaxies , you'll be able to do astrophysics , and learn the laws of physics .	在那些星系中 , 你可以做天體物理學 , 學習物理定律 。
and locally there you could build particle accelerators , and learn elementary particle physics , and chemistry , and so on .	當地可以製造粒子加速器 , 學習基本粒子物理 , 化學等等 。
probably the hardest science to do would be biology field trips because it would take several hundred million years to get to the nearest lifebearing planet and back .	可能是生物學領域之旅 , 最難的科學可能是生物學領域的旅程 , 因為要花數億年才能到達最近的生命星球 , 回到最近的地球上 。
but i have to tell you and sorry , richard but i never did like biology field trips much , and i think we can just about make do with one every few hundred million years .	但我必須告訴各位 , 抱歉 , 理查 , 但我從來不喜歡生物學實地旅程 , 我認為我們可以每隔幾億年就完成一次 。
so in fact , intergalactic space does contain all the prerequisites for the openended creation of knowledge . any such cube , anywhere in the universe , could become the same kind of hub that we are , if the knowledge of how to do so were present there .	所以事實上 , 星系間空間的確包含了開放式知識的所有前兆 。 任何這樣的立方體 , 都可以成為我們所處的同類空間 , 如果該怎麼做的話 。
so we're not in a uniquely hospitable place .	所以 , 我們不是在一個獨特的友善地方 。
if intergalactic space is capable of creating an openended stream of explanations , then so is almost every other environment . so is the earth . so is a polluted earth .	如果星系空間有能力創造出一個開放式的解釋 , 那麼幾乎是所有其他的環境 。 地球也是污染的地球 。
and the limiting factor , there and here , is not resources , because they're plentiful , but knowledge , which is scarce .	而限制因素 , 在這裡 , 不是資源 , 因為它們很豐富 , 但知識很稀少 。
now this cosmic knowledgebased view may and i think ought to make us feel very special . but it should also make us feel vulnerable , because it means that without the specific knowledge that's needed to survive the ongoing challenges of the universe , we won't survive them .	這種以宇宙為基礎的知識觀點 , 我認為應該讓我們感覺很特別 。 但這也讓我們感覺很脆弱 , 因為這意味著 , 若沒有必要的特定知識 , 我們就無法存活宇宙的挑戰 , 我們就不會存活下來 。
all it takes is for a supernova to go off a few light years away , and we'll all be dead !	超新星只需要幾年後才會消失 , 我們就會死掉 !
martin rees has recently written a book about our vulnerability to all sorts of things , from astrophysics , to scientific experiments gone wrong , and most importantly to terrorism with weapons of mass destruction .	馬丁•雷斯最近寫了一本關於我們對各種事物的脆弱性 , 從天體物理到科學實驗都出錯了 , 最重要的是用大規模毀滅性的武器來恐怖主義 。
and he thinks that civilization has only a 50 percent chance of surviving this century .	他認為 , 文明只有50%的存活率 。
i think he's going to talk about that later in the conference .	我想他稍後會談到這點 。
now i don't think that probability is the right category to discuss this issue in .	我不認為機率是正確的類別來討論這個問題 。
but i do agree with him about this . we can survive , and we can fail to survive .	但我同意他這件事 , 我們可以生存下來 , 我們也無法生存 。
but it depends not on chance , but on whether we create the relevant knowledge in time .	但它不取決於機率 , 而是我們是否在時間內創造出相關的知識 。
the danger is not at all unprecedented . species go extinct all the time .	危險不是史無前例的物種會隨時都滅絕
civilizations end . the overwhelming majority of all species and all civilizations that have ever existed are now history .	文明終止了 。 絕大多數的物種和所有現存的文明都是歷史 。
and if we want to be the exception to that , then logically our only hope is to make use of the one feature that distinguishes our species , and our civilization , from all the others namely , our special relationship with the laws of physics , our ability to create new explanations , new knowledge to be a hub of existence .	如果我們想成為例外 , 那麼邏輯上我們唯一的希望就是利用分辨人類和文明的特徵 , 和其他物種的特徵 , 我們和物理定律的特殊關係 , 我們創造新的解釋 , 新的知識是存在的樞紐 。
so let me now apply this to a current controversy , not because i want to advocate any particular solution , but just to illustrate the kind of thing i mean .	所以 , 讓我把這個應用到目前的爭議之上 , 不是因為我想要倡導任何特定的解決方案 , 只是說明我的意思 。
and the controversy is global warming .	爭議是全球暖化 。
now , i'm a physicist , but i'm not the right kind of physicist . in regard to global warming , i'm just a layman . and the rational thing for a layman to do is to take seriously the prevailing scientific theory . and according to that theory , it's already too late to avoid a disaster .	我是物理學家 , 但我不是正確的物理學家 。 在全球暖化方面 , 我只是個拉曼人 。 而一個拉曼人的理由是認真看待科學理論 。 根據這個理論 , 我已經太晚了 。
because if it's true that our best option at the moment is to prevent co2 emissions with something like the kyoto protocol , with its constraints on economic activity and its enormous cost of hundreds of billions of dollars or whatever it is , then that is already a disaster by any reasonable measure .	因為如果我們目前最好的選項就是阻止二氧化碳的排放 , 例如京都協定 , 它對於經濟活動的限制以及它的巨大成本 , 數百億美金或其它的代價 , 那就已經是某種合理的衡量了 。
and the actions that are advocated are not even purported to solve the problem , merely to postpone it by a little . so it's already too late to avoid it , and it probably has been too late to avoid it ever since before anyone realized the danger .	而那些被倡導的行動 , 甚至沒有被迫去解決這個問題 , 僅僅僅只是稍微退一步 。 所以它已經太遲了 , 無法避免它 , 可能已經太遲了 , 因為任何人都意識到危險之前 , 它可能已經太遲了 。
it was probably already too late in the 1970s , when the best available scientific theory was telling us that industrial emissions were about to precipitate a new ice age in which billions would die .	在1970年代 , 可能已經太遲了 , 當最好的科學理論告訴我們 , 工業排放即將降低數十億人死亡的新年齡 。
now the lesson of that seems clear to me , and i don't know why it isn't informing public debate .	這件事的教訓對我來說似乎很清楚 , 我不知道為何它沒有公眾辯論 。
it is that we can't always know . when we know of an impending disaster , and how to solve it at a cost less than the cost of the disaster itself , then there's not going to be much argument , really .	就是說 , 我們永遠不知道 。 當我們知道即將發生的災難 , 以及如何解決它的成本低於災難本身的成本 , 真的沒有太多的爭論 。
but no precautions , and no precautionary principle , can avoid problems that we do not yet foresee .	但沒有預防措施 , 也沒有預防措施 , 可以避免我們尚未預料到的問題 。
hence , we need a stance of problemfixing , not just problemavoidance .	因此 , 我們需要一步解決問題 , 而不只是有問題 。
and it's true that an ounce of prevention equals a pound of cure , but that's only if we know what to prevent .	沒錯 , 一盎司的預防等於一磅的療法 , 但只有在我們知道要預防什麼 。
if you've been punched on the nose , then the science of medicine does not consist of teaching you how to avoid punches .	如果你被打到鼻子上 , 那麼醫學的科學不會教導你如何避免打音 。
if medical science stopped seeking cures and concentrated on prevention only , then it would achieve very little of either .	如果醫學不再尋求解藥 , 只專注在預防上 , 那它也不會達到任何效果 。
the world is buzzing at the moment with plans to force reductions in gas emissions at all costs .	目前世界正在忙著打擊計劃 , 計畫要用所有成本來強制減少氣體排放 。
it ought to be buzzing with plans to reduce the temperature , and with plans to live at the higher temperature and not at all costs , but efficiently and cheaply . and some such plans exist , things like swarms of mirrors in space to deflect the sunlight away , and encouraging aquatic organisms to eat more carbon dioxide .	它應該要和規劃降低溫度 , 計畫要在更高的溫度下生存 , 不需花費 , 而是有效率地和廉價 。 有些計劃存在 , 像是在太空中的鏡子 , 將陽光反射 , 並且鼓勵水生菌去吃更多的二氧化碳 。
at the moment , these things are fringe research .	目前 , 這些東西是fringe研究 。
they're not central to the human effort to face this problem , or problems in general .	他們並不是人類努力解決這個問題的核心 , 或一般的問題 。
and with problems that we are not aware of yet , the ability to put right not the sheer good luck of avoiding indefinitely is our only hope , not just of solving problems , but of survival .	有了我們還沒意識到的問題 , 把正確的能力 , 不是無限避免的好運 , 就是我們唯一的希望 , 不只是解決問題 , 而是生存 。
so take two stone tablets , and carve on them .	拿兩塊石板 , 雕刻它們 。
on one of them , carve: " problems are soluble . "	其中之一是雕刻: 「 問題是 「 解決的 」 。
and on the other one carve: " problems are inevitable . "	另外一個雕刻: 「 問題是不可避免的 。 」
how can a struggling country break out of poverty if it's trapped in a system of bad rules ? economist paul romer unveils a bold idea: " charter cities , " cityscale administrative zones governed by a coalition of nations .	如果它被困在一個不好規則的系統中 , 一個掙扎的國家 , 要如何打破貧窮 ? 經濟學家保羅默提出一個大膽的想法: 「 特區城市 , 城市的管理區 , 由國家的聯盟統治 。
business , culture , economics , global issues , politics	商業、經濟、全球議題、政治、政治、
paul romer's radical idea: charter cities	保羅默的激進想法是:查爾斯都市的城市 ,
take a look at this picture .	看看這張照片 。
it poses a very fascinating puzzle for us .	它為我們帶來了一個令人著迷的謎題 。
these african students are doing their homework under streetlights at the airport in the capital city because they don't have any electricity at home .	這些非洲學生在首都市的機場街燈下做功課因為他們家裡沒有電
now , i haven't met these particular students , but i've met students like them .	我還沒見過這些特別的學生 , 但我也認識過像他們這樣的學生 。
let's just pick one for example , the one in the green shirt .	舉例來說 , 綠色襯衫中的一個 。
let's give him a name , too: nelson .	給他一個名字 , 尼爾森 。
i'll bet nelson has a cellphone .	我打賭nelson有手機 。
so here is the puzzle .	這就是謎題 。
why is it that nelson has access to a cuttingedge technology , like the cellphone , but doesn't have access to a 100yearold technology for generating electric light in the home ?	為什麼尼爾森可以使用尖端科技 , 像手機 , 但無法取得一百歲的科技 , 讓家裡產生電燈 ?
now , in a word , the answer is " rules . "	換言之 , 答案是 「 規則 」 。
bad rules can prevent the kind of winwin solution that's available when people can bring new technologies in and make them available to someone like nelson .	不好的規則可以預防雙贏的解決方案 , 當人們能把新技術帶到像尼爾森這樣的人身上 , 讓它們能被使用 。
what kinds of rules ?	什麼樣的規則 ?
the electric company in this nation operates under a rule , which says that it has to sell electricity at a very low , subsidized price in fact , a price that is so low it loses money on every unit that it sells .	這個國家的電力公司在一個規則下運作 , 據說它必須以非常低、補貼的價格 , 事實上 , 價格很低 , 價格低 , 價格低到每賣單位 。
so it has neither the resources , nor the incentives , to hook up many other users .	所以 , 它沒有資源 , 也沒有獎勵 , 來連結許多其他使用者 。
the president wanted to change this rule .	總統想要改變這個規則 。
he's seen that it's possible to have a different set of rules , rules where businesses earn a small profit , so they have an incentive to sign up more customers .	他看到 , 有不同的規則 , 有不同的規則 , 企業賺的小利潤是可能的 , 所以他們有動機去簽更多顧客 。
that's the kind of rules that the cellphone company that nelson purchases his telephony from operates under .	這類規則就是尼爾森購買的手機公司 。
the president has seen how those rules worked well .	總統看過這些規則如何運作 。
so he tried to change the rules for pricing on electricity , but ran into a firestorm of protest from businesses and consumers who wanted to preserve the existing subsidized rates .	所以他試著改變對電價價格的規則 , 但跑到商業和消費者的消防風暴中 , 他們想要保存現有的補貼率 。
so he was stuck with rules that prevented him from letting the winwin solution help his country .	所以他被困住的規則 , 阻止他讓雙贏解決方案來協助他的國家 。
and nelson is stuck studying under the streetlights .	尼爾森被困在街燈下學習 。
the real challenge then , is to try to figure out how we can change rules .	真正的挑戰是試著找出我們要如何改變規則 。
are there some rules we can develop for changing rules ?	是否有一些規則可以發展出改變規則 ?
i want to argue that there is a general abstract insight that we can make practical , which is that , if we can give more choices to people , and more choices to leaders who , in many countries , are also people .	我想主張 , 有一個普遍的抽象洞見 , 我們可以實踐 , 那就是 , 如果我們能給予人們更多選擇 , 在許多國家 , 領導者更多選擇 , 也是人 。
but , it's useful to present the opposition between these two .	但 , 這兩者之間的反對意見很有用 。
because the kind of choice you might want to give to a leader , a choice like giving the president the choice to raise prices on electricity , takes away a choice that people in the economy want .	因為你想要給予領導者的選擇 , 像給總統在電力上提高價格 , 拋棄人們想要的一個選擇 。
they want the choice to be able to continue consuming subsidized electric power .	他們想要選擇繼續消費補貼電力 。
so if you give just to one side or the other , you'll have tension or friction .	所以如果你只給一邊或另一邊 , 就會有張力或摩擦力 。
but if we can find ways to give more choices to both , that will give us a set of rules for changing rules that get us out of traps .	但如果我們能找到能給予更多選擇的方法 , 那就能給我們一套改變規則 , 讓我們擺脫陷阱的規則 。
now , nelson also has access to the internet .	尼爾森也能上網 。
and he says that if you want to see the damaging effects of rules , the ways that rules can keep people in the dark , look at the pictures from nasa of the earth at night .	他說 , 如果你想看到規則損壞的效應 , 規則可以讓人們留在黑暗中 , 看看美國太空總署的照片 。
in particular check out asia .	特別是亞洲 。
if you zoom in here , you can see north korea , in outline here , which is like a black hole compared to its neighbors .	如果你放大這裡 , 你可以看到北韓 , 在線上這裡 , 和鄰居相比 , 黑洞就像是黑洞 。
now , you won't be surprised to learn that the rules in north korea keep people there in the dark .	現在 , 你不會驚訝地發現北韓的規則會讓人們處在黑暗中 。
but it is important to recognize that north korea and south korea started out with identical sets of rules in both the sense of laws and regulations , but also in the deeper senses of understandings , norms , culture , values and beliefs .	但 , 很重要的是 , 要意識到北韓和南韓都起源於同一類的規則 , 以法律和法規的角度 , 同時 , 更深層的來說 , 了解、規範、文化、價值觀和信仰 。
when they separated , they made choices that led to very divergent paths for their sets of rules .	當他們分開時 , 他們會做出選擇 , 導致他們規則非常不同的路徑 。
so we can change we as humans can change the rules that we use to interact with each other , for better , or for worse .	我們人類可以改變我們人類可以改變我們使用的規則 , 讓彼此互動 , 更好 , 更糟糕 。
now let's look at another region , the caribbean .	咱們來看看另一個加勒比海地區 。
zoom in on haiti , in outline here .	放大在海地 , 這裡的線上 。
haiti is also dark , compared to its neighbor here , the dominican republic , which has about the same number of residents .	海地也是黑暗的 , 比起這裡的鄰居 , 多明尼加共和國 , 居民數量差不多 。
both of these countries are dark compared to puerto rico , which has half as many residents as either haiti or the dominican republic .	相較於波多黎各的兩個國家 , 兩國的居民比如海地或多明尼加共和國 。
what haiti warns us is that rules can be bad because governments are weak .	海地警告我們 , 規則可能會很糟 , 因為政府很弱 。
it's not just that the rules are bad because the government is too strong and oppressive , as in north korea .	不單是因為政府太強 , 壓迫 , 就像北韓一樣 。
so that if we want to create environments with good rules , we can't just tear down .	所以如果我們想要創造有好的規則的環境 , 我們就不能只撕下它 。
we've got to find ways to build up , as well .	我們也必須找到方法來建構 。
now , china dramatically demonstrates both the potential and the challenges of working with rules .	如今 , 中國戲劇性地展示了與規則相關的潛力和挑戰 。
back in the beginning of the data presented in this chart , china was the world's hightechnology leader .	回到這張圖的開端 , 中國是世界上的高科技領導者 。
chinese had pioneered technologies like steel , printing , gunpowder .	中國有先驅的技術 , 像是鋼、列印、槍枝 。
but the chinese never adopted , at least in that period , effective rules for encouraging the spread of those ideas a profit motive that could have encouraged the spread .	但中國人從未採用 , 至少在這段期間 , 有效的規則 , 鼓勵這些想法的傳播 , 一個利潤的動機 , 可以鼓勵傳播 。
and they soon adopted rules which slowed down innovation and cut china off from the rest of the world .	他們很快就採用了放慢創新的規則 , 把中國從世界其他地方砍掉 。
so as other countries in the world innovated , in the sense both of developing newer technologies , but also developing newer rules , the chinese were cut off from those advances .	所以 , 隨著世界上其他國家的創新 , 在發展新科技的意義上 , 也發展出新的規則 , 中國人從這些進步中被切斷 。
income there stayed stagnant , as it zoomed ahead in the rest of the world .	收入在那兒停滯不前 , 因為它放大到世界其他地方 。
this next chart looks at more recent data .	下一張圖表是比較近期的數據 。
it plots income , average income in china as a percentage of average income in the united states .	它描繪收入、中國的平均收入佔美國平均收入的比例
in the '50s and '60s you can see that it was hovering at about three percent .	在50年代和60年代 , 你可以看到大約佔了百分之三 。
but then in the late '70s something changed .	但在70年代末期 , 情況改變了 。
growth took off in china . the chinese started catching up very quickly with the united states .	經濟增長在中國起飛 , 中國開始迅速地趕上美國
if you go back to the map at night , you can get a clue to the process that lead to the dramatic change in rules in china .	如果你晚上回到地圖 , 就會得到一個線索 , 導致中國的規則大幅改變 。
the brightest spot in china , which you can see on the edge of the outline here , is hong kong .	中國最明亮的區域 , 各位可以看到 , 線上的邊緣 , 是香港 。
hong kong was a small bit of china that , for most of the 20th century , operated under a very different set of rules than the rest of mainland china rules that were copied from working market economies of the time , and administered by the british .	香港是中國的一小部分 , 在二十世紀大部分 , 採用的規則是非常不同的 , 比起當時工作市場經濟的其他國家 , 中國的主要規則 , 中國的管理者是英國的 。
in the 1950s , hong kong was a place where millions of people could go , from the mainland , to start in jobs like sewing shirts , making toys .	在1950年代 , 香港是一個讓數百萬人從大陸開始的工作 , 像是縫襯衫 , 玩具 。
but , to get on a process of increasing income , increasing skills led to very rapid growth there .	但 , 為了增加收入的過程 , 越來越多技能導致在那裡成長很快 。
hong kong was also the model which leaders like deng xiaoping could copy , when they decided to move all of the mainland towards the market model .	香港也是個典型 , 領導人喜歡香港的領導人可以複製 , 當他們決定把整個大陸都搬到市場模式上 。
but deng xiaoping instinctively understood the importance of offering choices to his people .	但蒙古直覺地了解到提供他選擇的重要性 。
so instead of forcing everyone in china to shift immediately to the market model , they proceeded by creating some special zones that could do , in a sense , what britain did: make the opportunity to go work with the market rules available to the people who wanted to opt in there .	所以 , 與其強迫所有中國人立即轉移到市場模式 , 他們採用的是創造一些特殊的區塊 , 可以做的事 , 也就是英國所做的:讓機會和市場規則合作 , 讓想要選擇的人可以使用 。
so they created four special economic zones around hong kong: zones where chinese could come and work , and cities grew up very rapidly there ; also zones where foreign firms could come in and make things .	所以 , 他們創造了四個特別的經濟區 , 包圍香港:中國可以來工作的地方 , 城市在很快地長大 ; 還有外國公司可以進來做點什麼 。
one of the zones next to hong kong has a city called shenzhen .	香港旁邊的一個區域有個叫做 「 深圳 」 的城市 。
in that city there is a taiwanese firm that made the iphone that many of you have , and they made it with labor from chinese who moved there to shenzhen .	在那個城市裡 , 有一個台灣公司 , 打造了座很多人的iphone , 他們把它做成了從中國人搬到深圳的勞工 。
so after the four special zones , there were 14 coastal cites that were open in the same sense , and eventually demonstrated successes in these places that people could opt in to , that they flocked to because of the advantages they offered .	所以在四個特別的區域之後 , 有十四個海岸公園在同一方面開放 , 最終在這些地方證明了成功 , 人們可以選擇的成功 , 因爲他們提供的好處 。
demonstrated successes there led to a consensus for a move toward the market model for the entire economy .	在那裡證明成功導致了一致的共識 , 朝向整個經濟的市場模式前進 。
now the chinese example shows us several points .	中國的例子讓我們看到幾個點 。
one is: preserve choices for people .	第一:保存人們的選擇 。
two: operate on the right scale .	第二:在正確的尺度上運作 。
if you try to change the rules in a village , you could do that , but a village would be too small to get the kinds of benefits you can get if you have millions of people all working under good rules .	如果你試著改變村落的規則 , 你就能做到 , 但村落太小 , 無法得到你所能得到的利益 , 如果你有數百萬人在好的規則下工作 。
on the other hand , the nation is too big .	另一方面 , 國家太大了 。
if you try to change the rules in the nation , you can't give some people a chance to hold back , see how things turn out , and let others zoom ahead and try the new rules .	如果你試著改變這個國家的規則 , 你就不能給一些人回報 , 看看結果如何 , 讓其他人放大 , 嘗試新的規則 。
but cities give you this opportunity to create new places , with new rules that people can opt in to .	但城市給你機會 , 創造出新的地方 , 讓人們可以選擇的新規則 。
and they're large enough to get all of the benefits that we can have when millions of us work together under good rules .	它們夠大 , 足以取得我們所能有的所有利益 , 只要有數百萬人在良好的規則下合作 。
so the proposal is that we conceive of something called a charter city .	所以 , 提議是我們構想了一種叫做 「 特區城市 」 的東西 。
we start with a charter that specifies all the rules required to attract the people who we'll need to build the city .	我們先從一個特定規則開始 , 來吸引我們需要建造城市的人 。
we'll need to attract the investors who will build out the infrastructure the power system , the roads , the port , the airport , the buildings .	我們需要吸引投資者來吸引建立基礎設施的投資者──系統、道路、港口、機場、大樓 。
you'll need to attract firms , who will come hire the people who move there first .	你需要吸引公司 , 先僱用搬到那裡的人 。
and you'll need to attract families , the residents who will come and live there permanently , raise their children , get an education for their children , and get their first job .	你需要吸引家庭 , 在那裡住在那裡 , 在那裡 , 養育孩子 , 為他們的孩子接受教育 , 並得到他們的第一份工作 。
with that charter , people will move there .	有了那篇文章 , 人們會搬到那裡 。
the city can be built .	城市可以被建造出來 。
and we can scale this model .	我們可以擴大這個模型 。
we can go do it over and over again .	我們可以一而再再而三地完成它 。
to make it work , we need good rules . we've already discussed that .	要成功 , 我們需要好的規則 。 我們已經討論過了 。
those are captured in the charter .	那些在章節中被捕捉 。
we also need the choices for people .	我們也需要人們的選擇 。
that's really built into the model if we allow for the possibility of building cities on uninhabited land .	這真的是建立在模型中 , 如果我們能在無人居住的土地上建造城市的可能性 。
you start from uninhabited territory .	你從未居住的領域開始 。
people can come live under the new charter , but no one is forced to live under it .	人們可以在新的章節下生存 , 但沒有人被迫活在其中 。
the final thing we need are choices for leaders .	最後我們需要的是領導者的選擇 。
and , to achieve the kind of choices we want for leaders we need to allow for the potential for partnerships between nations: cases where nations work together , in effect , de facto , the way china and britain worked together to build , first a little enclave of the market model , and then scale it throughout china .	為了達成我們想要的領導者的選擇 , 我們需要讓國家之間合作的可能性:實情 , 德魯 , 中國和英國一起合作 , 首先建立一個小型的市場模式 , 然後擴展到整個中國 。
in a sense , britain , inadvertently , through its actions in hong kong , did more to reduce world poverty than all the aid programs that we've undertaken in the last century .	在某種意義上 , 英國 , 無意間 , 透過香港的行動 , 減少了世界的貧窮 , 比上個世紀我們所經歷的所有援助計畫還要多 。
so if we allow for these kind of partnerships to replicate this again , we can get those kinds of benefits scaled throughout the world .	所以如果我們允許這種合作關係再次複製這個現象 , 我們就能讓這種好處遍及世界各地 。
in some cases this will involve a delegation of responsibility , a delegation of control from one country to another to take over certain kinds of administrative responsibilities .	在某些情況下 , 這會涉及到負責任的程度 , 從一個國家到另一個國家的授權 , 來克服某些類型的行政責任 。
now , when i say that , some of you are starting to think , " well , is this just bringing back colonialism ? "	當我這麼說的時候 , 有些人開始想: 「 嗯 , 這只是帶回殖民主義嗎 ? 」
it's not . but it's important to recognize that the kind of emotions that come up when we start to think about these things , can get in the way , can make us pull back , can shut down our ability , and our interest in trying to explore new ideas .	這不是 。 但重要的是要意識到當我們開始思考這些事情時 , 會出現的那種情緒 , 可以讓我們退一步 , 可以關閉我們的能力 , 以及我們想要探索新點子的興趣 。
why is this not like colonialism ?	為什麼不像殖民主義 ?
the thing that was bad about colonialism , and the thing which is residually bad in some of our aid programs , is that it involved elements of coercion and condescension .	殖民主義是不好的 , 而在我們的援助計畫中 , 則是它涉及了強制和保險的元素 。
this model is all about choices , both for leaders and for the people who will live in these new places .	這個模式是關於選擇 , 無論是領導者 , 還是對住在這些新地方的人 。
and , choice is the antidote to coercion and condescension .	選擇是對合作和保險的解藥 。
so let's talk about how this could play out in practice .	咱們來談談這如何實踐 。
let's take a particular leader , raul castro , who is the leader of cuba .	咱們來看看一位特別的領導人 , raulcastro , 他是古巴的領導人 。
it must have occurred to castro that he has the chance to do for cuba what deng xiaoping did for china , but he doesn't have a hong kong there on the island in cuba .	它一定會發生在卡斯楚 , 他有機會為古巴做些什麼 , 但他沒有古巴島的香港 。
he does , though , have a little bit of light down in the south that has a very special status .	不過 , 他的確在南方有一點點光線 , 上面有很特別的地位 。
there is a zone there , around guantanamo bay , where a treaty gives the united states administrative responsibility for a piece of land that's about twice the size of manhattan .	那裡有一塊區域 , 位在古曼納摩灣附近 , 在那裡 , 條約讓美國負責一塊土地的責任 , 大約是曼哈頓的兩倍 。
castro goes to the prime minister of canada and says , " look , the yankees have a terrible pr problem .	卡斯楚去加拿大總理說: 「 看 , 伊恩克有個可怕的pr問題 。
they want to get out .	他們想要出去 。
why don't you , canada , take over ?	為什麼不 , 加拿大 , 接管呢 ?
build run a special administrative zone .	建造一座特別的行政區 。
allow a new city to be built up there .	允許新城市在上面建造 。
allow many people to come in .	讓許多人進來 。
let us have a hong kong nearby .	讓我們附近有個香港 。
some of my citizens will move into that city as well .	我的公民也會搬到那個城市 。
others will hold back . but this will be the gateway that will connect the modern economy and the modern world to my country . "	其他人會支持 。 但這將會是通往我國家現代經濟和現代世界的通道 。 」
now , where else might this model be tried ?	現在 , 其他的模型還在哪裡試過 ?
well , africa . i've talked with leaders in africa .	非洲 。 我和非洲的領導人談過 。
many of them totally get the notion of a special zone that people can opt into as a rule .	許多人完全得到一個特殊區塊的概念 , 讓人們可以當作規則 。
it's a rule for changing rules .	它是改變規則的規則 。
it's a way to create new rules , and let people optin without coercion , and the opposition that coercion can force .	它是一種創造新規則的方式 , 讓人們不需要強迫 , 而合作的反對 。
they also totally get the idea that in some instances they can make more credible promises to longterm investors the kind of investors who will come build the port , build the roads , in a new city they can make more credible promises if they do it along with a partner nation .	他們也完全了解到 , 在某些情況下 , 他們可以對長期投資者做出更有信心的承諾 , 來建立港口的投資者 , 建立道路 , 在一個新的城市 , 他們可以做出更有信心的承諾 , 如果他們和一個夥伴國家合作的話 。
perhaps even in some arrangement that's a little bit like an escrow account , where you put land in the escrow account and the partner nation takes responsibility for it .	甚至在一些安排中 , 有點像escrow帳戶 , 把土地放在escrow帳戶中 , 合作夥伴們負責為此負責 。
there is also lots of land in africa where new cities could be built .	非洲有很多土地 , 在那裡 , 新的城市可以建造 。
this is a picture i took when i was flying along the coast .	這是我在海岸飛行時拍的照片 。
there are immense stretches of land like this land where hundreds of millions of people could live .	有很大的土地 , 像這樣的土地 , 有數億人可以住在那裡 。
now , if we generalize this and think about not just one or two charter cites , but dozens cities that will help create places for the many hundreds of millions , perhaps billions of people who will move to cities in the coming century is there enough land for them ?	現在 , 如果我們把這個概念整合起來 , 想想看 , 不僅僅是一兩間慈善團體 , 還有數十個城市 , 能協助為數億人創造出地方 , 也許數十億人在未來世紀會搬到城市 , 為他們帶來足夠的土地 ?
well , throughout the world , if we look at the lights at night , the one thing that's misleading is that , visually , it looks like most of the world is already built out .	嗯 , 在世界各地 , 如果我們晚上看燈光 , 誤導的一件事是 , 視覺上 , 它似乎是世界上大部分人已經建構出來了 。
so let me show you why that's wrong .	所以 , 讓我告訴各位 , 為什麼這才是錯的 。
take this representation of all of the land .	以這所有土地的代表為例 。
turn it into a square that stands for all the arable land on earth .	把它轉化成一個正方形 , 代表著地球上所有可耕地 。
and let these dots represent the land that's already taken up by the cities that three billion people now live in .	讓這些點代表已被三十億人口居住的城市所佔的土地 。
if you move the dots down to the bottom of the rectangle you can see that the cities for the existing three billion urban residents take up only three percent of the arable land on earth .	如果你把點移到長方形底部 , 你可以看到 , 現有的都市居民佔地球上可耕地的百分之三 。
so if we wanted to build cities for another billion people , they would be dots like this .	所以如果我們想為數十億人建造城市 , 他們會像這樣做 。
we'd go from three percent of the arable land , to four percent .	我們會從百分之三的可耕地 , 到百分之四 。
we'd dramatically reduce the human footprint on earth by building more cities that people can move to .	我們會大大減少地球上人類的足跡 , 藉由建造更多人能搬到的城市 。
and if these are cities governed by good rules , they can be cities where people are safe from crime , safe from disease and bad sanitation , where people have a chance to get a job .	如果這些城市被良好的規則管理 , 他們可以是城市 , 在那裡 , 人民是安全的 , 不受犯罪、疾病和不良的公共衛生 , 在那裡 , 人們有機會找到工作 。
they can get basic utilities like electricity .	他們可以取得基本的電力 。
their kids can get an education .	他們的孩子可以接受教育 。
so what will it take to get started building the first charter cities , scaling this so we build many more ?	所以 , 要開始建造第一座charter城市 , 擴展它 , 才能建造更多 ?
it would help to have a manual .	要有手冊是有幫助的 。
what university professors could do is write some details that might go into this manual .	大學教授可以做的是寫一些細節 , 可以進入這本手冊 。
you wouldn't want to let us run the cities , go out and design them .	你不會想讓我們跑出城市 , 走出去設計它們 。
you wouldn't let academics out in the wild .	你不會讓學術界出現在野外 。
but , you could set us to work thinking about questions like , suppose it isn't just canada that does the deal with raul castro .	但 , 你可以讓我們去思考一些問題 , 例如 , 假設它不只是加拿大 , 處理拉爾卡斯楚的問題 。
perhaps brazil comes in as a participant , and spain as well . and perhaps cuba wants to be one of the partners in a fourway joint venture .	也許巴西是受試者 , 西班牙也是 。 也許古巴想要成為四個關節冒險的夥伴之一 。
how would we write the treaty to do that ?	我們要如何寫條約 ?
there is less precedent for that , but that could easily be worked out .	沒有那麼多的先例 , 但這很容易被解決 。
how would we finance this ?	我們要如何資助這點 ?
turns out singapore and hong kong are cities that made huge gains on the value of the land that they owned when they got started .	結果發現 , 新加坡和香港是城市 , 在他們開始時所擁有的土地價值非常大 。
you could use the gains on the value of the land to pay for things like the police , the courts , but the school system and the health care system too , which make this a more attractive place to live , makes this a place where people have higher incomes which , incidentally , makes the land more valuable .	你可以利用土地的價值來支付警察、法院等 , 但學校系統和醫療系統 , 讓這個地方更吸引人居住 , 讓人們有更高的收入 , 順帶一提 , 讓土地更有價值 。
so the incentives for the people helping to construct this zone and build it , and set up the basic rules , go very much in the right direction .	所以 , 那些幫忙建構這個區域的人的動機 , 建立了基本的規則 , 走向正確的方向 。
so there are many other details like this .	所以 , 有很多像這樣的細節 。
how could we have buildings that are low cost and affordable for people who work in a first job , assembling something like an iphone , but make those buildings energy efficient , and make sure that they are safe , so they don't fall down in an earthquake or a hurricane .	我們要如何讓低成本、負擔得起的建築 , 讓第一份工作的人能夠組裝出像iphone一樣的東西 , 但要讓這些建築能有效率 , 確保它們是安全的 , 所以它們不會落在地震或颶風中 。
many technical details to be worked out , but those of us who are already starting to pursue these things can already tell that there is no roadblock , there's no impediment , other than a failure of imagination , that will keep us from delivering on a truly global winwin solution .	許多技術上的細節要被找出來 , 但那些已經開始追求這些事情的人 , 已經可以知道沒有障礙 , 沒有障礙 , 除了想像的失敗之外 , 這會讓我們無法實現真正的全球性的雙贏解決方案 。
let me conclude with this picture .	讓我用這張照片來總結 。
the reason we can be so well off , even though there is so many people on earth , is because of the power of ideas .	我們之所以能如此順利 , 即使地球上有這麼多人 , 是因為想法的力量 。
we can share ideas with other people , and when they discover them , they share with us .	我們可以和他人分享想法 , 當他們發現他們 , 他們和我們分享 。
it's not like scarce objects , where sharing means we each get less .	它不像稀有物品 , 分享的意義減少 。
when we share ideas we all get more .	當我們分享想法時 , 我們都會得到更多 。
when we think about ideas in that way , we usually think about technologies .	當我們用那樣的方式思考想法時 , 我們通常會想到科技 。
but there is another class of ideas: the rules that govern how we interact with each other ; rules like , let's have a tax system that supports a research university that gives away certain kinds of knowledge for free .	但還有另一類想法:管理我們如何互動的規則 ; 例如 , 咱們用稅收系統來支援一項研究大學 , 免費提供某些知識 。
let's have a system where we have ownership of land that is registered in a government office , that people can pledge as collateral .	咱們來個體制 , 在政府辦公室裡 , 我們有擁有土地的權力 , 人民可以承諾是冰封 。
if we can keep innovating on our space of rules , and particularly innovate in the sense of coming up with rules for changing rules , so we don't get stuck with bad rules , then we can keep moving progress forward and truly make the world a better place , so that people like nelson and his friends don't have to study any longer under the streetlights . thank you .	如果我們能持續創新我們的規則 , 尤其是創新在於改變規則的概念 , 所以我們不會陷入不好的規則 , 那麼我們可以繼續進步 , 讓世界變得更美好 , 像尼爾森和他的朋友不再需要在路燈下學習 。 謝謝 。
genomics pioneer craig venter takes a break from his epic roundtheworld expedition to talk about the millions of genes his team has discovered so far in its quest to map the ocean’s biodiversity .	基因學家克萊格•凡特在他史詩般的探險探險中休息了一段時間 , 來談談他的團隊發現的數百萬個基因 , 到目前為止 , 以繪製海洋生物多樣性 。
dna , biosphere , biotech , entrepreneur , genetics , invention , oceans , science , technology	dna、生物圈、生物科技、企業家、基因發明、海洋、科學、科技、科技、科技、科技、
craig venter on dna and the sea	克雷格•凡特在dna和海洋上 , 和海平面上都是 。
at the break , i was asked by several people about my comments about the aging debate .	休息時 , 幾個人問我有關老化的辯論的意見 。
and this will be my only comment on it .	這將會是我唯一的評論 。
and that is , i understand that optimists greatly outlive pessimists .	那就是 , 我了解樂觀主義者遠超過悲觀主義者 。
what i'm going to tell you about in my 18 minutes is how we're about to switch from reading the genetic code to the first stages of beginning to write the code ourselves .	在我18分鐘內 , 我要告訴各位的是 , 我們要如何轉換基因密碼 , 轉換到開始寫程式的第一階段 。
it's only 10 years ago this month when we published the first sequence of a freeliving organism , that of haemophilus influenzae .	僅僅在十年前 , 我們在這個月刊登了第一序列 , 一種自由生存的有機體 , 流感 。
that took a genome project from 13 years down to four months .	這個計畫從13年到4個月後進行了基因組計畫 。
we can now do that same genome project in the order of two to eight hours .	我們現在可以在兩到八個小時內完成同樣的基因組計畫 。
so in the last decade , a large number of genomes have been added: most human pathogens , a couple of plants , several insects and several mammals , including the human genome .	所以在過去十年 , 大量的基因組被加上了:大部分的人類病原體、幾種植物、幾種昆蟲和幾種哺乳動物 , 包括人類基因組 。
genomics at this stage of the thinking from a little over 10 years ago was , by the end of this year , we might have between three and five genomes sequenced ; it's on the order of several hundred .	在這一階段的基因組學在十年前是 , 今年底 , 我們可能有三到五個基因序列 ; 數百個基因組的序列 。
we just got a grant from the gordon and betty moore foundation to sequence 130 genomes this year , as a side project from environmental organisms .	我們剛從戈登和貝蒂摩爾基金會得到補助 , 今年我們將一百三十個基因組定序為環保有機體的副計畫 。
so the rate of reading the genetic code has changed .	所以閱讀遺傳密碼的速度已經改變了 。
but as we look , what's out there , we've barely scratched the surface on what is available on this planet .	但 , 正如我們所見 , 我們幾乎沒有抓到這個星球上可得的表面 。
most people don't realize it , because they're invisible , but microbes make up about a half of the earth's biomass , whereas all animals only make up about one onethousandth of all the biomass .	大部份人不明白 , 因為它們是看不見的 , 但微生物大約是地球一半的生物量 , 而所有的動物只佔所有生物量的一分之一 。
and maybe it's something that people in oxford don't do very often , but if you ever make it to the sea , and you swallow a mouthful of seawater , keep in mind that each milliliter has about a million bacteria and on the order of 10 million viruses .	也許是牛津人經常不會做的事 , 但如果你把它送到海裡 , 吞下一口海水 , 請記住每一毫升的海水都有大約一百萬隻細菌 , 以一千萬病毒的命令 。
less than 5 , 000 microbial species have been characterized as of two years ago , and so we decided to do something about it .	兩年前 , 只有不到5000種微生物被特徵化 , 所以我們決定做點什麼 。
and we started the sorcerer ii expedition , where we were , as with great oceanographic expeditions , trying to sample the ocean every 200 miles .	我們開始了sercer第二次探險 , 在那裡 , 我們和大型海洋探險一樣 , 試圖每200英哩的海洋樣本 。
we started in bermuda for our test project , then moved up to halifax , working down the u . s . east coast , the caribbean sea , the panama canal , through to the galapagos , then across the pacific , and we're in the process now of working our way across the indian ocean .	我們開始在百慕達做測試 , 然後搬到哈利法克斯 , 在美國東岸 , 加勒比海 , 巴拿馬峽谷 , 穿過太平洋 , 我們現在正在橫跨印度洋的路上 。
it's very tough duty ; we're doing this on a sailing vessel , in part to help excite young people about going into science .	這是非常困難的責任 , 我們在船艙上做這件事 , 有部分協助刺激年輕人進入科學領域 。
the experiments are incredibly simple .	實驗非常簡單 。
we just take seawater and we filter it , and we collect different size organisms on different filters , and then take their dna back to our lab in rockville , where we can sequence a hundred million letters of the genetic code every 24 hours .	我們只是過濾海水 , 收集不同的過濾器 , 然後把它們的dna帶回我們在洛克維爾的實驗室 , 在那裡 , 我們每24小時就能將一億個基因編碼的基因序列定序 。
and with doing this , we've made some amazing discoveries .	藉由這麼做 , 我們做出了一些驚人的發現 。
for example , it was thought that the visual pigments that are in our eyes there was only one or two organisms in the environment that had these same pigments .	舉例來說 , 人們認為我們眼中的視覺色素在環境中只有一到兩種有機體有相同的色素 。
it turns out , almost every species in the upper parts of the ocean in warm parts of the world have these same photoreceptors , and use sunlight as the source of their energy and communication .	結果發現 , 地球上所有海洋上層的物種 , 都有相同的攝影器 , 用陽光作為它們能量和溝通的來源 。
from one site , from one barrel of seawater , we discovered 1 . 3 million new genes and as many as 50 , 000 new species .	從一個網站 , 從一桶海水中 , 我們發現了130萬個新基因 , 和50000個新物種 。
we've extended this to the air now with a grant from the sloan foundation .	我們現在把這張照片延伸到空氣中 , 帶著來自斯蘭基金會的補助金 。
we're measuring how many viruses and bacteria all of us are breathing in and out every day , particularly on airplanes or closed auditoriums .	我們測量有多少病毒和細菌 , 我們每天都在呼吸中 , 特別是在飛機上 , 或關閉聽覺 。
we filter through some simple apparatuses ; we collect on the order of a billion microbes from just a day filtering on top of a building in new york city .	我們通過一些簡單的裝置過濾 ; 我們收集了十億微生物 , 來自紐約市的一棟大樓 。
and we're in the process of sequencing all that at the present time .	我們正處於定序的過程中 , 在當下 。
just on the data collection side , just where we are through the galapagos , we're finding that almost every 200 miles , we see tremendous diversity in the samples in the ocean .	僅僅在資料集中 , 透過加拉帕戈斯 , 我們發現幾乎每兩百英哩 , 我們在海洋中的樣本就看到了巨大的多樣性 。
some of these make logical sense , in terms of different temperature gradients .	有些邏輯上是合理的 , 以不同的溫度來說 。
so this is a satellite photograph based on temperatures red being warm , blue being cold and we found there's a tremendous difference between the warm water samples and the cold water samples , in terms of abundant species .	這是一張衛星照片 , 根據溫度的紅色 , 藍色的溫度 , 我們發現溫暖的水樣本和冷水樣本之間有很大的差異 。
the other thing that surprised us quite a bit is these photoreceptors detect different wavelengths of light , and we can predict that based on their amino acid sequence .	另一件讓我們吃驚的事是這些光感應器會偵測不同波長的光 , 我們可以根據它們的胺基酸序列來預測 。
and these vary tremendously from region to region .	而這些區域的區塊大幅增加 。
maybe not surprisingly , in the deep ocean , where it's mostly blue , the photoreceptors tend to see blue light .	或許不意外 , 在深海 , 那裡大部分是藍色的 , 光受器通常會看到藍光 。
when there's a lot of chlorophyll around , they see a lot of green light .	當周圍有很多葉綠素時 , 他們會看到很多綠光 。
but they vary even more , possibly moving towards infrared and ultraviolet in the extremes .	但它們可能更不同 , 在極端的紅外線和紫外線移動 。
just to try and get an assessment of what our gene repertoire was , we assembled all the data including all of ours thus far from the expedition , which represents more than half of all the gene data on the planet and it totaled around 29 million genes .	只為了評估我們的基因複製品的評估 , 我們把所有的資料組合起來 , 包括我們所有的資料 , 包括我們目前的探險 , 這代表地球上所有基因資料的一半 , 總共有2900萬個基因 。
and we tried to put these into gene families to see what these discoveries are: are we just discovering new members of known families , or are we discovering new families ?	我們試著把這些基因家庭放進基因中 , 看看這些發現是什麼:我們只是發現已知家庭的新成員 , 還是發現新的家庭 ?
and it turns out we have about 50 , 000 major gene families , but every new sample we take in the environment adds in a linear fashion to these new families .	結果發現 , 我們有大約五萬個主要的基因家庭 , 但我們所採集的每一個新樣本 , 加上線性時尚 , 給這些新家庭 。
so we're at the earliest stages of discovery about basic genes , components and life on this planet .	所以 , 我們正處於地球上最早期的發現 , 關於基本基因、元素和生命的階段 。
when we look at the socalled evolutionary tree , we're up on the upper righthand corner with the animals .	當我們看所謂的演化樹 , 我們在右上角和動物的右上角 。
of those roughly 29 million genes , we only have around 24 , 000 in our genome .	在大約兩千九百萬個基因中 , 我們的基因組只有兩萬四千個 。
and if you take all animals together , we probably share less than 30 , 000 and probably maybe a dozen or more thousand different gene families .	如果你把所有的動物集合在一起 , 我們大概有不到三萬個 , 可能有十幾個不同的基因家庭 。
i view that these genes are now not only the design components of evolution .	我覺得這些基因不僅僅是進化的設計組成 。
and we think in a genecentric view maybe going back to richard dawkins' ideas than in a genomecentric view , which are different constructs of these gene components .	我們認為在一個基因中心的觀點也許回到理查•達文斯的觀點 , 遠遠比基因組件的不同 。
synthetic dna , the ability to synthesize dna , has changed at sort of the same pace that dna sequencing has over the last decade or two , and is getting very rapid and very cheap .	合成dna , 合成dna的能力 , 在過去十年或二十年間 , dna定序的速度改變了 , 且變得非常快速、非常便宜 。
our first thought about synthetic genomics came when we sequenced the second genome back in 1995 , and that from mycoplasma genitalium .	我們首先想到合成基因組學 , 是在1995年我們定序第二組基因組時 , 這從我的生殖器中 。
and we have really nice tshirts that say , you know , " i heart my genitalium . "	我們有很棒的t恤 , 上面寫著: 「 我愛我的生殖器 。 」
this is actually just a microorganism .	這其實只是微生物 。
but it has roughly 500 genes .	但它有大約500個基因 。
haemophilus had 1 , 800 genes .	莫菲斯有1800個基因 。
and we simply asked the question , if one species needs 800 , another 500 , is there a smaller set of genes that might comprise a minimal operating system ?	我們只是問一個問題 , 如果一個物種需要800 , 另一個500種 , 是否有一組小型的基因組組成一個小型的作業系統 ?
so we started doing transposon mutagenesis .	所以 , 我們開始做交通突變 。
transposons are just small pieces of dna that randomly insert in the genetic code .	轉帳只不過是基因編碼中隨機插入的小dna 。
and if they insert in the middle of the gene , they disrupt its function .	如果它們在基因的中間插入 , 它們就會破壞它的功能 。
so we made a map of all the genes that could take transposon insertions and we called those " nonessential genes . "	所以我們做了一張圖 , 所有可以服用交通插射的基因 , 我們稱之為 「 不必要的基因 」 。
but it turns out the environment is very critical for this , and you can only define an essential or nonessential gene based on exactly what's in the environment .	但事實證明 , 環境是非常關鍵的 , 你只能根據環境的本質或不必要的基因來定義 。
we also tried to take a more directly intellectual approach with the genomes of 13 related organisms , and we tried to compare all of those , to see what they had in common .	我們也試著用比較直接的智力方法和13個相關有機體的基因組做比較 , 我們試著比較這些 , 看看它們有什麼共通點 。
and we got these overlapping circles . and we found only 173 genes common to all 13 organisms .	我們得到了這些重疊的圓圈 。 我們發現了173個基因 , 共有13種生物 。
the pool expanded a little bit if we ignored one intracellular parasite ; it expanded even more when we looked at core sets of genes of around 310 or so .	如果我們忽略一個細胞寄生蟲 , 池塘就會擴大一點 ; 當我們觀察核心基因大約是310左右 。
so we think that we can expand or contract genomes , depending on your point of view here , to maybe 300 to 400 genes from the minimal of 500 .	所以我們認為我們可以擴展或收縮基因 , 取決於你的觀點 , 到500到400個基因 。
the only way to prove these ideas was to construct an artificial chromosome with those genes in them , and we had to do this in a cassettebased fashion .	證明這些想法的唯一方法是用人造染色體組成 , 用這些基因組成 , 我們必須在基礎的時尚下進行 。
we found that synthesizing accurate dna in large pieces was extremely difficult .	我們發現在大片碎片中 , 合成的dna是非常困難的 。
ham smith and clyde hutchison , my colleagues on this , developed an exciting new method that allowed us to synthesize a 5 , 000base pair virus in only a twoweek period that was 100 percent accurate , in terms of its sequence and its biology .	漢姆•史密斯和克萊德•hutchison , 我在這方面的同事開發了一種令人振奮的新方法 , 讓我們能在兩週之內合成一組50000個鹼基對的病毒 , 大約是百分之百精確的基因序列和生物學 。
it was a quite exciting experiment when we just took the synthetic piece of dna , injected it in the bacteria and all of a sudden , that dna started driving the production of the virus particles that turned around and then killed the bacteria .	這是個相當令人振奮的實驗 , 當我們把合成的dna注射到細菌中 , 突然間 , dna開始驅動病毒粒子的生產 , 然後殺死細菌 。
this was not the first synthetic virus a polio virus had been made a year before but it was only one tenthousandth as active and it took three years to do .	這不是第一個合成病毒 , 一個小兒麻痺症病毒在一年前被製造出來的 , 但它只有一個十分之一活躍 , 且花了三年的時間 。
this is a cartoon of the structure of phi x 174 .	這是phix174的一幅卡通結構 。
this is a case where the software now builds its own hardware , and that's the notions that we have with biology .	這個軟體現在建立了自己的硬體 , 這就是我們對生物學的概念 。
people immediately jump to concerns about biological warfare , and i had recent testimony before a senate committee , and a special committee the u . s . government has set up to review this area .	人們馬上跳到關心生物戰事 , 我在參議會委員會前有了近期的證詞 , 還有一個特殊的委員會 , 美國政府開始重新審視這個領域 。
and i think it's important to keep reality in mind , versus what happens with people's imaginations .	我認為 , 保持現實是很重要的 , 和大家的想像力是怎麼回事 。
basically , any virus that's been sequenced today that genome can be made .	基本上 , 現今所有被基因組排序的病毒 。
and people immediately freak out about things about ebola or smallpox , but the dna from this organism is not infective .	人們馬上就對伊波拉或天花的事物感到怪異 , 但從這個生物體中產生的dna並不是有毒的 。
so even if somebody made the smallpox genome , that dna itself would not cause infections .	所以即使有人做了天花基因 , dna本身就不會造成感染 。
the real concern that security departments have is designer viruses .	安全部門真正擔心的是設計師病毒 。
and there's only two countries , the u . s . and the former soviet union , that had major efforts on trying to create biological warfare agents .	只有兩個國家 , 美國和前蘇聯 , 他們努力創造生物武器代理 。
if that research is truly discontinued , there should be very little activity on the knowhow to make designer viruses in the future .	如果這項研究真的被剝奪了 , 未來就應該要有非常少的活動來製造設計病毒 。
i think singlecell organisms are possible within two years .	我認為在兩年內 , 單細胞有機體是可能的 。
and possibly eukaryotic cells , those that we have , are possible within a decade .	可能在十年內 , 我們所擁有的真皮細胞 。
so we're now making several dozen different constructs , because we can vary the cassettes and the genes that go into this artificial chromosome .	我們現在正在製造數十個不同的構造 , 因為我們能改變貓咪和基因進入人造染色體的基因 。
the key is , how do you put all of the others ?	關鍵是 , 你要如何把他人都放在一起 ?
we start with these fragments , and then we have a homologous recombination system that reassembles those into a chromosome .	我們從這些碎片開始 , 然後我們有一套相同的重新組合系統 , 將它們重新組合成染色體 。
this is derived from an organism , deinococcus radiodurans , that can take three million rads of radiation and not be killed .	這是從一個有機體中衍生出來的 , 明確的輻射 , 可以吸收三百萬種輻射 , 而不是被殺害 。
it reassembles its genome after this radiation burst in about 12 to 24 hours , after its chromosomes are literally blown apart .	在輻射爆發12至24小時後 , 它的染色體會被爆炸 。
this organism is ubiquitous on the planet , and exists perhaps now in outer space due to all our travel there .	這種生物在地球上無所不在 , 可能就在外太空中 , 因為我們所有的旅程都在外太空中存在 。
this is a glass beaker after about half a million rads of radiation .	這是一架玻璃桶 , 經過了五十萬個輻射 。
the glass started to burn and crack , while the microbes sitting in the bottom just got happier and happier .	玻璃開始燃燒和裂縫 , 微生物坐在海底 , 變得更快樂 。
here's an actual picture of what happens: the top of this shows the genome after 1 . 7 million rads of radiation .	這是一張真實的照片上面顯示了一百七十萬個輻射的基因組 。
the chromosome is literally blown apart .	染色體真的分崩離析了 。
and here's that same dna automatically reassembled 24 hours later .	同樣的dna自動重組了24小時 。
it's truly stunning that these organisms can do that , and we probably have thousands , if not tens of thousands , of different species on this planet that are capable of doing that .	令人驚訝的是 , 這些生物能做到這一點 , 我們可能有數千種 , 如果不是數萬種 , 在這個星球上 , 可以做到這一點 。
after these genomes are synthesized , the first step is just transplanting them into a cell without a genome .	在這些基因組合成後 , 第一步便是將它們移植到一個沒有基因組的細胞中 。
so we think synthetic cells are going to have tremendous potential , not only for understanding the basis of biology but for hopefully environmental and society issues .	所以我們認為合成細胞將會有很大的潛力 , 不僅是為了了解生物學的基礎 , 更希望的是環境和社會議題 。
for example , from the third organism we sequenced , methanococcus jannaschii it lives in boiling water temperatures ; its energy source is hydrogen and all its carbon comes from co2 it captures back from the environment .	舉例來說 , 從我們排序的第三個有機體 , 甲烷 , 詹納西是沸水的溫度 ; 它的能量來源是氫 , 所有的碳來自於環境的二氧化碳 。
so we know lots of different pathways , thousands of different organisms now that live off of co2 , and can capture that back .	所以我們知道許多不同的途徑 , 數以千計的不同的生物住在二氧化碳上 , 可以捕捉到它 。
so instead of using carbon from oil for synthetic processes , we have the chance of using carbon and capturing it back from the atmosphere , converting that into biopolymers or other products .	所以 , 與其從石油上取代合成過程 , 我們有機會使用碳 , 從大氣中捕捉回來 , 將其轉換成生物聚合物或其他產品 。
we have one organism that lives off of carbon monoxide , and we use as a reducing power to split water to produce hydrogen and oxygen .	我們有一個生物存在於二氧化碳中 , 我們用它來降低水份 , 來產生氫和氧 。
also , there's numerous pathways that can be engineered metabolizing methane .	此外 , 有許多途徑可以被改造代謝甲烷 。
and dupont has a major program with statoil in norway to capture and convert the methane from the gas fields there into useful products .	杜邦有一項重大的計畫 , 用挪威的雕像來捕捉和從那裡轉換甲烷 , 變成有用的產品 。
within a short while , i think there's going to be a new field called " combinatorial genomics , " because with these new synthesis capabilities , these vast gene array repertoires and the homologous recombination , we think we can design a robot to make maybe a million different chromosomes a day .	不久之內 , 我認為會有一個叫做 「 組合基因體 」 的新領域 , 因為有了這些新的合成能力 , 這些大量的基因庫和同源的組合 , 我們認為我們可以設計一個機器人 , 一天可能製造出百萬種不同的染色體 。
and therefore , as with all biology , you get selection through screening , whether you're screening for hydrogen production , or chemical production , or just viability .	因此 , 如同生物學 , 你通過螢幕進行篩選 , 不論你在檢視氫生產 , 或化學生產 , 或僅僅是可行性 。
to understand the role of these genes is going to be well within reach .	若要了解這些基因的角色 , 就會很好 。
we're trying to modify photosynthesis to produce hydrogen directly from sunlight .	我們試著修改光合作用 , 直接從陽光中直接產生氫 。
photosynthesis is modulated by oxygen , and we have an oxygeninsensitive hydrogenase that we think will totally change this process .	光合作用被氧氣調節 , 我們認為會完全改變這個過程 。
we're also combining cellulases , the enzymes that break down complex sugars into simple sugars and fermentation in the same cell for producing ethanol .	我們還在結合細胞分解複雜糖成簡單糖和發酵的酵素在同一個細胞中產生乙醇
pharmaceutical production is already under way in major laboratories using microbes .	製藥生產已經在主要實驗室中進行了 。
the chemistry from compounds in the environment is orders of magnitude more complex than our best chemists can produce .	環境中的化合物的化學性質比我們最好的化合物所能製造出來的大量化合物要複雜 。
i think future engineered species could be the source of food , hopefully a source of energy , environmental remediation and perhaps replacing the petrochemical industry .	我認為未來的工程物種可以是食物的來源 , 希望是能源、環境復原的來源 , 也許可以取代石化產業 。
let me just close with ethical and policy studies .	讓我用倫理和政策研究來結束 。
we delayed the start of our experiments in 1999 until we completed a yearandahalf bioethical review as to whether we should try and make an artificial species .	在1999年 , 我們延遲實驗的開端 , 直到我們完成了一年半的生物倫理評論 , 來評論我們是否該嘗試做人工物種 。
every major religion participated in this .	每個主要的宗教都參與其中 。
it was actually a very strange study , because the various religious leaders were using their scriptures as law books , and they couldn't find anything in them prohibiting making life , so it must be ok . the only ultimate concerns were biological warfare aspects of this , but gave us the go ahead to start these experiments for the reasons we were doing them .	這其實是個很奇怪的研究 , 因為各式各樣的宗教領袖把他們的文字當作法律書 , 他們無法在他們禁止製造生命的過程中找到任何東西 , 所以 , 唯一的關注是生物戰略的面向 , 但給了我們前一步的實驗 , 為我們做這些實驗的理由 。
right now the sloan foundation has just funded a multiinstitutional study on this , to work out what the risk and benefits to society are , and the rules that scientific teams such as my own should be using in this area , and we're trying to set good examples as we go forward .	現在 , sloan基金會剛剛資助了一份多個機構的研究 , 為社會帶來的風險和利益 , 以及像我這樣的團隊應該在這個領域中使用的規則 , 我們正試著設立一些好的例子 。
these are complex issues .	這些都是複雜的問題 。
except for the threat of bioterrorism , they're very simple issues in terms of , can we design things to produce clean energy , perhaps revolutionizing what developing countries can do and provide through various simple processes .	除了生物恐怖主義的威脅之外 , 它們是非常簡單的議題 , 我們能否設計東西來產生乾淨的能源 , 或許革命發展中國家能做些什麼 , 並提供各種簡單的過程 。
psychologist philip zimbardo says happiness and success are rooted in a trait most of us disregard: the way we orient toward the past , present and future . he suggests we calibrate our outlook on time as a first step to improving our lives .	心理學家菲利普津巴多說幸福和成功是根深蒂固的特質:我們朝向過去、現在和未來的方向前進 。 他建議我們以一步改善生活的第一步 。
brain , business , happiness , mind , psychology , science	大腦、商業、快樂、思維、心理學、科學、科學、
philip zimbardo prescribes a healthy take on time	菲利普津巴多開了健康照護時間 ,
i want to share with you some ideas about the secret power of time , in a very short time .	我想和大家分享一些關於時間的秘密力量的概念 , 在很短的時間內 。
video: all right , start the clock please . 30 seconds studio .	影片:好的 , 開始時鐘拜託 , 30秒工作室
keep it quiet please . settle down .	保持安靜 , 安定下來 。
it's about time . end sequence . take one .	大約是時間 。 結束序列 。 拿一個 。
10 , nine , eight , seven , six , five , four , three , two . . .	10、9、8、6、5、4、3、2......
philip zimbardo: let's tune into the conversation of the principals in adam's temptation .	菲利普津巴多:咱們來談談亞當的誘惑 。
" come on adam , don't be so wishywashy . take a bite . " " i did . "	「 來上亞當 , 不要太討喜 , 吃一點 。 」 「 我做過 。 」
" one bite , adam . don't abandon eve . "	「 一口 , 亞當 , 不要放棄 。 」
" i don't know , guys .	「 我不知道 , 各位 。
i don't want to get in trouble . "	我不想惹上麻煩 。 」
" okay . one bite . what the hell ? "	「 好 , 一口 。 到底是什麼 ? 」
life is temptation . it's all about yielding , resisting , yes , no , now , later , impulsive , reflective , present focus and future focus .	生命是誘惑 。 一切都是為了生存、抗拒 , 是的 , 不 , 後來 , 衝動、反思、焦點 , 以及未來的焦點 。
promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment .	被保證的美德落入了當下的熱情 。
of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage thank you george bush the majority , 60 percent , yielded to sexual temptations within one year .	十幾歲的女孩 , 她們主張性別缺陷和處女 , 直到婚姻 , 感謝妳的喬治布希──多數 , 60% , 她們在一年內得到性誘惑 。
and most of them did so without using birth control .	大部分的人都沒有使用生育控制 。
so much for promises .	承諾是如此 。
now lets tempt fouryearolds , giving them a treat .	現在讓我們誘惑四歲的孩子 , 給他們一份治療 。
they can have one marshmallow now . but if they wait until the experimenter comes back , they can have two .	他們現在可以有一顆棉花糖 。 但如果他們等到實驗員回來 , 他們就可以有兩顆 。
of course it pays , if you like marshmallows , to wait .	當然 , 如果你喜歡棉花糖 , 它會付錢 。
what happens is twothirds of the kids give in to temptation .	會發生的是三分之二的孩子 , 給他們誘惑 。
they cannot wait . the others , of course , wait .	當然 , 他們不能等 。 其他人 , 當然 , 等等 。
they resist the temptation . they delay the now for later .	他們抗拒誘惑 。 他們現在延遲了 。
walter mischel , my colleague at stanford , went back 14 years later , to try to discover what was different about those kids .	華特•密歇爾 , 我在史丹佛的同事 , 14年後回去 , 試著去了解這些孩子有什麼不同 。
there were enormous differences between kids who resisted and kids who yielded , in many ways .	在許多方面 , 抗拒和受害者的孩子之間有很大的差異 。
the kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the sat .	那些拒絕分配250分的孩子 , 高出250分 。
that's enormous . that's like a whole set of different iq points .	這很龐大 。 這就像一整套不同的智商點 。
they didn't get in as much trouble . they were better students .	他們沒有陷入任何麻煩 , 他們是更好的學生 。
they were selfconfident and determined . and the key for me today , the key for you , is , they were futurefocused rather than presentfocused .	他們是自信且堅定的 。 今天對我來說 , 關鍵是 , 他們是未來的焦點 , 而不是現在的焦點 。
so what is time perspective ? that's what i'm going to talk about today .	所以 , 時間觀點是什麼 ? 這就是我今天要談的 。
time perspective is the study of how individuals , all of us , divide the flow of your human experience into time zones or time categories .	時間觀念是研究個體 , 我們所有人的研究 , 將你的人類經歷分為時間區 , 或時間分類 。
and you do it automatically and nonconsciously .	而你會自動做 , 無意識地做 。
they vary between cultures , between nations , between individuals , between social classes , between education levels .	文化、國家、個人、社會階級之間、教育水平之間的差異 。
and the problem is that they can become biased , because you learn to overuse some of them and underuse the others .	問題是 , 他們可以變得偏見 , 因為你學會過度使用一些偏見 , 並且低估其它部分 。
what determines any decision you make ?	你做了什麼決定 ?
you make a decision on which you're going to base an action .	你決定你要採取行動 。
for some people it's only about what is in the immediate situation , what other people are doing and what you're feeling .	對一些人而言 , 只有在即時情況下 , 其他人在做什麼 , 以及你在做什麼 。
and those people , when they make their decisions in that format we're going to call them " presentoriented , " because their focus is what is now .	那些人 , 當他們做出決定時 , 我們會稱他們為 「 簡報 」 , 因為他們專注在現在 。
for others , the present is irrelevant .	對其他人來說 , 現在的確是不相關的 。
it's always about " what is this situation like that i've experienced in the past ? "	總是關於 「 我過去經歷過的這種情況是什麼樣子 ? 」
so that their decisions are based on past memories .	所以他們的決策是基於過去的記憶 。
and we're going to call those people " pastoriented , " because they focus on what was .	我們會稱這些人為 「 過時 」 , 因為他們專注於什麼 。
for others it's not the past , it's not the present , it's only about the future .	對其他人來說 , 這不是過去 , 也不是現在 , 而是關於未來 。
their focus is always about anticipated consequences .	他們的焦點總是在乎預期的後果 。
we're going to call them " futureoriented . " their focus is on what will be .	我們稱他們為 「 未來 」 , 他們的焦點在於未來 。
so , time paradox , i want to argue , the paradox of time perspective , is something that influences every decision you make , you're totally unaware of .	所以 , 時間悖論 , 我想爭論 , 時間觀點的悖論 , 是影響你做出的每一個決定 , 你完全不知道的 。
namely , the extent to which you have one of these biased time perspectives .	換句話說 , 你對這些偏見的時間觀點的程度 。
well there is actually six of them . there are two ways to be presentoriented .	其實有六個 , 有兩種方式可以做簡報 。
there is two ways to be pastoriented , two ways to be future .	有兩種方式可以被貼上去 , 成為未來的兩種方式 。
you can focus on pastpositive , or pastnegative .	你可以把焦點放在過時或負面 。
you can be presenthedonistic , namely you focus on the joys of life , or presentfatalist it doesn't matter , your life is controlled .	你可以被關注生命的喜悅 , 或說是虛擬主義者不重要 , 你的人生被控制了 。
you can be futureoriented , setting goals .	你可以是未來的 , 設定目標 。
or you can be transcendental future: namely , life begins after death .	或者 , 你可以是超自然的未來:命名 , 生命起源於死亡 。
developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidly depending on the demands of the situation , that's what you've got to learn to do .	發展出靈活性 , 來改變時間觀點 , 取決於情境的需求 , 這就是你學會做的 。
so , very quickly , what is the optimal time profile ?	所以 , 很快地 , 什麼是最佳的時間資料 ?
high on pastpositive . moderately high on future .	處於輕鬆的狀態 。 在未來 , 溫度高 。
and moderate on presenthedonism .	而現代主義的現代主義 。
and always low on pastnegative and presentfatalism .	總是低於負面和現代主義 。
so the optimal temporal mix is what you get from the past pastpositive gives you roots . you connect your family , identity and your self .	所以 , 最佳的暫時混合就是你從過去的過時混合物給你的根源 。 你將你的家人、身份和自我連結在一起 。
what you get from the future is wings to soar to new destinations , new challenges .	從未來你得到的是翅膀 , 到新的目的地 , 新的挑戰 。
what you get from the present hedonism is the energy , the energy to explore yourself , places , people , sensuality .	你從現在的喜悅主義中得到的就是能量 , 去探索你自己、地方、人、感覺 。
any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives .	任何多餘時間的觀點都比正面的還要多 。
what do futures sacrifice for success ?	什麼樣的未來犧牲成功 ?
they sacrifice family time . they sacrifice friend time .	他們犧牲家庭時間 , 犧牲朋友時間 。
they sacrifice fun time . they sacrifice personal indulgence .	他們犧牲有趣的時光 。 他們犧牲個人的誘惑 。
they sacrifice hobbies . and they sacrifice sleep . so it affects their health .	他們犧牲嗜好 , 犧牲睡眠 。 所以這會影響他們的健康 。
and they live for work , achievement and control .	他們為工作、成就和控制而生活 。
i'm sure that resonates with some of the tedsters .	我敢肯定這和一些ted大會有關 。
and it resonated for me . i grew up as a poor kid in the south bronx ghetto , a sicilian family everyone lived in the past and present .	這對我來說很有共鳴 。 我在南布朗克斯ghet托長大 , 一個醫師家庭 , 每個人都住在過去和現在 。
i'm here as a futureoriented person who went over the top , who did all these sacrifices because teachers intervened , and made me future oriented .	我來這裡是一位有希望的人 , 走過頂端 , 犧牲了這些人 , 因為老師介入了 , 讓我有了未來的傾向 。
told me don't eat that marshmallow , because if you wait you're going to get two of them , until i learned to balance out .	告訴我不要吃那顆棉花糖 , 因為如果你等著你會拿到兩顆 , 直到我學會平衡 。
i've added presenthedonism , i've added a focus on the pastpositive , so , at 76 years old , i am more energetic than ever , more productive , and i'm happier than i have ever been .	我加上現代主義 , 我把焦點放在過時性 , 所以 , 七十六歲時 , 我比以往更有生產力 , 我比以前更快樂 。
i just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems: changing the dropout rates of school kids , combating addictions , enhancing teen health , curing vets' ptsd with time metaphors getting miracle cures promoting sustainability and conservation , reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50percent drop out rate , altering appeals to suicidal terrorists , and modifying family conflicts as timezone clashes .	我只是想說 , 我們把這個應用到許多世界問題上:改變學校孩子的輟學率、結合成癮、增強青少年健康、用時間隱喻來治療創傷創傷後壓力症候群 , 提高永續性和保育性 , 減少身體復健率 , 減少50% , 改變自殺恐怖份子 , 轉換為自殺傾向 , 轉換為家庭時間的衝突 。
so i want to end by saying: many of life's puzzles can be solved by understanding your time perspective and that of others .	我想以最後的結尾說:許多生命的謎題 , 都能透過了解你的時間觀點和他人的觀點來解決 。
and the idea is so simple , so obvious , but i think the consequences are really profound .	想法很簡單 , 很明顯 , 但我認為後果非常深刻 。
how many of today's headlines will matter in 100 years ? 1000 ? kirk citron's " long news " project collects stories that not only matter today , but will resonate for decades even centuries to come . at ted2010 , he highlights recent headlines with the potential to shape our future .	在一百年內 , 現今的頭條新聞會很重要 ? 1000年 ? kirkcron的 「 長新聞 」 計畫 , 不僅僅是現今 , 還會產生數十年的關注 , 甚至2010年 , 他會強調未來的頭條 , 可能塑造我們的未來 。
future , global issues , media , news , science	未來、全球議題、媒體、新聞、科學、科學、
kirk citron: and now , the real news	kirkcitron:現在 , 真正的新聞是真實的消息 。
we are drowning in news .	我們在新聞裡淹沒 。
reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year .	光是檢查員一年就發佈了350萬個新聞故事 。
that's just one source .	這只是一個源頭 。
my question is: how many of those stories are actually going to matter in the long run ?	我的問題是:長期來說 , 到底有多少會影響到這些故事 ?
that's the idea behind the long news .	這是長期新聞背後的想法 。
it's a project by the long now foundation , which was founded by tedsters including kevin kelly and stewart brand .	這是一個長時間基金會的專案 , 由tedsters所創立的 , 包括凱文凱利和史都華特品牌 。
and what we're looking for is news stories that might still matter 50 or 100 or 10 , 000 years from now .	我們在尋找的新聞故事 , 可能在50到10萬年後還會影響到50到10000年 。
and when you look at the news through that filter , a lot falls by the wayside .	當你透過這個過濾器看新聞時 , 很多的情況下都會落下 。
to take the top stories from the a . p . this last year , is this going to matter in a decade ?	去年 , 從a.p.故事中 , 去年 , 這會在十年內發生嗎 ?
is this going to matter in 50 or 100 years ?	這會在50或100年內產生影響嗎 ?
okay , that was kind of cool .	好吧 , 這有點酷 。
but the top story of this past year was the economy , and i'm just betting that , sooner or later , this particular recession is going to be old news .	但過去一年的頭一次故事是經濟 , 我很快就會打賭 , 不久後 , 這個衰退將會是舊消息 。
so , what kind of stories might make a difference for the future ?	所以 , 什麼樣的故事能為未來帶來改變 ?
well , let's take science .	咱們來談談科學 。
someday , little robots will go through our bloodstreams fixing things .	有一天 , 小機器人會穿過我們的血液來修復東西 。
that someday is already here if you're a mouse .	如果你是一隻老鼠 , 那天就已經出現了 。
some recent stories: nanobees zap tumors with real bee venom ; they're sending genes into the brain ; a robot they built that can crawl through the human body .	有些最近的故事:奈米蟲和真蜜蜂毒液結合 ; 它們把基因送到大腦中 ; 一個可以透過人體爬行的機器人 。
what about resources ? how are we going to feed nine billion people ?	資源呢 ? 我們要如何餵飽90億人 ?
we're having trouble feeding six billion today .	我們現在正在餵飽六十億人 。
as we heard yesterday , there's over a billion people hungry .	如同我們昨天聽到的 , 有超過十億人挨餓 。
britain will starve without genetically modified crops .	英國沒有基因改造的作物 , 會餓死 。
bill gates , fortunately , has bet a billion on [agricultural] research .	幸運的是 , 比爾蓋茲在農業研究上有十億人 。
what about global politics ?	那麼全球政治呢 ?
the world's going to be very different when and if china sets the agenda , and they may .	世界將會非常不一樣 , 如果中國訂定了議程 , 他們也可能 。
they've overtaken the u . s . as the world's biggest car market , they've overtaken germany as the largest exporter , and they've started doing dna tests on kids to choose their careers .	他們已經超越美國 , 作為世界上最大的汽車市場 , 他們已經超越德國成為最大的出口者 , 他們開始做dna測試 , 讓孩子選擇他們的職業 。
we're finding all kinds of ways to push back the limits of what we know .	我們在尋找各種方法來推動我們所知的極限 。
some recent discoveries: there's an ant colony from argentina that has now spread to every continent but antarctica ; there's a selfdirected robot scientist that's made a discovery soon , science may no longer need us , and life may no longer need us either ; a microbe wakes up after 120 , 000 years .	有些近期的發現:阿根廷有一個蟻群 , 已經散播到每一塊大陸 , 但南極洲都有自主導的機器人科學家 , 很快地 , 科學就不再需要我們了 , 生命可能也不再需要我們了 ; 一個經過120萬年的微生物醒來 。
it seems that with or without us , life will go on .	似乎 , 不論我們 , 生命都會持續下去 。
but my pick for the top long news story of this past year was this one: water found on the moon .	但過去一年 , 我選的最新新聞是這個:在月球上發現的水 。
makes it a lot easier to put a colony up there .	要把蟻群放在那裡就更容易了 。
and if nasa doesn't do it , china might , or somebody in this room might write a big check .	如果美國太空總署不這麼做 , 中國可能 , 或在座的某個人可能會寫一份大支票 。
my point is this: in the long run , some news stories are more important than others .	我的重點是:在長期來說 , 有些新聞故事比其他新聞更重要 。
planetary scientist carolyn porco shows images from the cassini voyage to saturn , focusing on its largest moon , titan , and on frozen enceladus , which seems to shoot jets of ice .	地球科學家carolynpordco從卡斯尼航海到土星 , 專注於它最大的衛星、泰坦 , 以及凍結的土衛 , 這似乎是冰的噴射機 。
nasa , design , exploration , science , space , technology , universe , visualizations	美國太空總署、設計、探索、探索、太空、太空、科技、宇宙、視覺化、視覺化、視覺化 。
carolyn porco flies us to saturn	卡羅琳潘科讓我們飛向土星 , 飛向土星 。
in the next 18 minutes , i'm going to take you on a journey .	在接下來的18分鐘 , 我要帶各位踏上一段旅程 。
and it's a journey that you and i have been on for many years now , and it began some 50 years ago , when humans first stepped off our planet .	這趟旅程 , 你和我已經經歷過很多年了 , 50年前 , 當人類踏出地球時 , 它開始了 。
and in those 50 years , not only did we literally , physically set foot on the moon , but we have dispatched robotic spacecraft to all the planets all eight of them and we have landed on asteroids , we have rendezvoused with comets , and , at this point in time , we have a spacecraft on its way to pluto , the body formerly known as a planet .	在那50年裡 , 我們不僅真的在月球上設置了腳 , 我們還把機械太空船分散到所有行星的八個行星上 , 我們登陸了小行星 , 在這個時點 , 我們有一艘太空船 , 運行到冥王星 , 以前所知的星球 。
and all of these robotic missions are part of a bigger human journey: a voyage to understand something , to get a sense of our cosmic place , to understand something of our origins , and how earth , our planet , and we , living on it , came to be .	所有這些機械任務都是人類旅程的一部分:航海來了解事物 , 去了解宇宙的起源 , 去了解我們的起源 , 地球 , 和我們生活的 , 漸漸成真 。
and of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this , there's saturn . and we have been to saturn before we visited saturn in the early 1980s but our investigations of saturn have become far more indepth in detail since the cassini spacecraft , traveling across interplanetary space for seven years , glided into orbit around saturn in the summer of 2004 , and became at that point the farthest robotic outpost that humanity had ever established around the sun .	在太陽系裡的所有地方 , 我們可能會去尋找像這樣的問題的答案 , 土星就存在 。 我們在1980年代造訪了土星 , 但我們的土星調查之後 , 土星的調查已經變得更加詳細 , 自從卡西尼號太空船飛行 , 穿越了星際太空七年 , 讓土星飛行到土星的軌道上 , 在2004年的那個時期 , 我們成為了地球上人類最遠景的機器人 。
now , the saturn system is a rich planetary system .	土星系統是個很豐富的星球系統 。
it offers mystery , scientific insight and obviously splendor beyond compare , and the investigation of this system has enormous cosmic reach .	它提供了神秘、科學的洞察 , 顯然超出了比較之外的資金 , 而這個系統的調查顯示了巨大的宇宙 。
in fact , just studying the rings alone , we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies .	事實上 , 光靠研究環 , 我們就能學到很多關於星體和氣體的圓盤 , 我們稱之為螺旋星系 。
and here's a beautiful picture of the andromeda nebula , which is our closest , largest spiral galaxy to the milky way .	這是andromedanebula的美麗照片 , 這是我們最接近的 , 最大型的螺旋星系到銀河系 。
and then , here's a beautiful composite of the whirlpool galaxy , taken by the hubble space telescope .	這裡有個美麗的旋風星系是由哈伯太空望遠鏡所拍攝的
so the journey back to saturn is really part of and is also a metaphor for a much larger human voyage to understand the interconnectedness of everything around us , and also how humans fit into that picture .	所以 , 回到土星的旅程是其中的一部分 , 也是為了更大的人類旅程 , 來了解我們周遭的所有事物之間的關聯性 , 以及人類如何融入這張照片 。
and it pains me that i can't tell you all that we have learned with cassini .	這讓我無法告訴你們我們在卡西尼學到的一切 。
i can't show you all the beautiful pictures that we've taken in the last two and a half years , because i simply don't have the time .	我無法給你們看我們過去兩年半所拍攝的美麗照片 , 因為我沒有時間 。
so i'm going to concentrate on two of the most exciting stories that have emerged out of this major exploratory expedition that we are conducting around saturn , and have been for the past two and a half years .	所以 , 我要專注在兩個最令人振奮的故事中 , 在這個重大的探險探險探險旅程中 , 我們正進行土星四周進行 , 過去兩年半以來一直都是如此 。
saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons .	土星伴隨著大型多樣化的月球 。
they range in size from a few kilometers across to as big across as the u . s .	它們排列在幾公里寬的大小 , 大到和美國一樣大 。
most of the beautiful pictures we've taken of saturn , in fact , show saturn in accompaniment with some of its moons . here's saturn with dione , and then , here's saturn showing the rings edgeon , showing you just how vertically thin they are , with the moon enceladus .	我們拍攝了土星的大部分美麗照片 , 事實上 , 土星與衛星有一些月球 。 這是土星和鑽石 , 然後 , 土星展示了ringgeon , 向你展示了它們的垂直薄度 , 用土衛二 。
now , two of the 47 moons that saturn has are standouts .	土星的47個衛星中有兩個是站著 。
and those are titan and enceladus . titan is saturn's largest moon , and , until cassini had arrived there , was the largest single expanse of unexplored terrain that we had remaining in our solar system .	那些是土衛六和土衛二 。 泰坦是土星最大的衛星 , 直到卡西尼到達之前 , 是太陽系中最大的未探索地帶 。
and it is a body that has long intrigued people who've watched the planets .	它是一種長久以來很感興趣的人 , 觀看了行星 。
it has a very large , thick atmosphere , and in fact , its surface environment was believed to be more like the environment we have here on the earth , or at least had in the past , than any other body in the solar system .	它有非常大的厚厚的大氣層 , 事實上 , 它的表面環境被認為更像我們在地球上所生存的環境 , 或者至少在過去 , 比太陽系中任何其他的身體都要大 。
its atmosphere is largely molecular nitrogen , like you are breathing here in this room , except that its atmosphere is suffused with simple organic materials like methane and propane and ethane .	它的大氣層主要是分子氮 , 就像你在這裡呼吸一樣 , 除了它的大氣層充滿了簡單的有機物質 , 比如甲烷、丙烷和乙烷 。
and these molecules high up in the atmosphere of titan get broken down , and their products join together to make haze particles .	這些分子位於泰坦大氣層的大氣層中 , 分解破了 , 而它們的產品結合在一起 , 形成了 「 駭客粒子 」 。
this haze is ubiquitous . it's completely global and enveloping titan .	這種霧氣是無所不在的 , 完全是全球性的 , 包含土衛六 。
and that's why you cannot see down to the surface with our eyes in the visible region of the spectrum .	這也是為什麼你不能用眼睛在可見光譜中看到表面 。
but these haze particles , it was surmised , before we got there with cassini , over billions and billions of years , gently drifted down to the surface and coated the surface in a thick organic sludge .	但這些霧狀的粒子 , 在我們和卡西尼到那裡之前 , 已經有數十億年了 , 溫柔地移到表面 , 將表面覆蓋在厚厚的有機黏液中 。
so like the equivalent , the titan equivalent , of tar , or oil , or what we didn't know what .	如同泰坦 , 泰坦等同於油、油 , 或我們不知道什麼 。
but this is what we suspected . and these molecules , especially methane and ethane , can be liquids at the surface temperatures of titan .	但這就是我們所懷疑的 。 這些分子 , 特別是甲烷和乙烷 , 在土衛六的地表溫度上可以是液態 。
and so it turns out that methane is to titan what water is to the earth .	結果發現甲烷對地球來說是甚麼水 。
it's a condensable in the atmosphere , and so recognizing this circumstance brought to the fore a whole world of bizarre possibilities . you can have methane clouds , ok , and above those clouds , you have this hundreds of kilometers of haze , which prevent any sunlight from getting to the surface .	它在大氣層中是可以容納的 , 所以認知了這個環境 , 帶來了整個世界的奇特的可能性 。 你可以有甲烷雲 , 好 , 在這些雲層之上 , 你有數百公里的霧氣 , 防止任何陽光從表面照射到表面 。
the temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero fahrenheit .	表面的溫度在華氏零度以下約350度 。
but despite that cold , you could have rain falling down on the surface of titan .	但儘管冷了 , 泰坦的表面下有雨 。
and doing on titan what rain does on the earth: it carves gullies ; it forms rivers and cataracts ; it can create canyons ; it can pool in large basins and craters .	在泰坦 , 下雨在地球上會做的事:它會雕刻 , 形成河流和領土 ; 它能創造峽谷 ; 它能聚集在大盆地和坑裡 。
it can wash the sludge off high mountain peaks and hills , down into the lowlands . so stop and think for a minute .	它可以洗掉高山峰和山丘 , 到低地 , 停下來 , 想一想 。
try to imagine what the surface of titan might look like .	試著想像土衛六表面是什麼樣子 。
it's dark . high noon on titan is as dark as deep earth twilight on the earth .	它是黑暗的 。 鐵達尼號的高點就像是地球深處的地球照明一樣黑暗 。
it's cold , it's eerie , it's misty , it might be raining , and you might be standing on the shores of lake michigan brimming with paint thinner .	它很冷 , 很小 , 很糟糕 , 可能是下雨 , 你可能站在密西根湖邊 , 用油漆粉刷來模仿 。
that is the view that we had of the surface of titan before we got there with cassini , and i can tell you that what we have found on titan , though it is not the same in detail , is every bit as fascinating as that story is .	這是我們在卡西尼號到達之前的土衛六表面 , 我可以告訴你們 , 我們在土衛六上所發現的 , 雖然它的細節不一樣 , 都和故事一樣迷人 。
and for us , it has been like the cassini people it has been like a jules verne adventure come true .	對我們來說 , 它就像是卡西尼人 , 它就像是一場青春期冒險一樣 。
as i said , it has a thick , extensive atmosphere .	如我所說 , 它有厚厚的大氣層 。
this is a picture of titan , backlit by the sun , with the rings as a beautiful backdrop .	這張照片是土衛六的背景 , 太陽的背景 , 背景是美麗的背景 。
and yet another moon there i don't even know which one it is . it's a very extensive atmosphere .	另外一個月球 , 我甚至不知道它是哪一個 。 它是一個非常廣闊的大氣層 。
we have instruments on cassini which can see down to the surface through this atmosphere , and my camera system is one of them .	我們在卡西尼號的儀器可以透過這個大氣層看到表面 , 我的相機系統就是其中之一 。
and we have taken pictures like this .	我們拍了這樣的照片 。
and what you see is bright and dark regions , and that's about as far as it got for us .	你看到的是明亮且黑暗的區域 , 差不多跟我們差不多 。
it was so mystifying: we couldn't make out what we were seeing on titan .	這太神奇了:我們無法在泰坦看到什麼 。
when you look closer at this region , you start to see things like sinuous channels we didn't know . you see a few round things .	當你靠近這個區域 , 你就會開始看到我們不知道的無數頻道 。 你看到一些圓形的東西 。
this , we later found out , is , in fact , a crater , but there are very few craters on the surface of titan , meaning it's a very young surface .	我們後來發現 , 其實是隕石坑 , 但土衛六表面上有非常少的隕石坑 , 意思是 , 它是非常年輕的表面 。
and there are features that look tectonic .	有些特徵看起來很像地形 。
they look like they've been pulled apart .	他們看起來好像被拉開了 。
whenever you see anything linear on a planet , it means there's been a fracture , like a fault .	每當你在一個星球上看到線條時 , 它就意味著有裂痕 , 像斷層一樣 。
and so it's been tectonically altered .	所以它已經被轉變了 。
but we couldn't make sense of our images , until , six months after we got into orbit , an event occurred that many have regarded as the highlight of cassini's investigation of titan .	但我們無法理解我們的影像 , 直到我們進入軌道六個月後 , 發生了一件事件 , 許多人都認為卡西尼的調查很明顯 。
and that was the deployment of the huygens probe , the europeanbuilt huygens probe that cassini had carried for seven years across the solar system . we deployed it to the atmosphere of titan , it took two and a half hours to descend , and it landed on the surface .	這就是huygens探測器的部署 , 歐洲的builthuygenshuygens探測器已經運載了七年的太陽系 。 我們將它部署到titan的大氣層 , 花了兩半小時的時間來下降 , 它落在地表上 。
and i just want to emphasize how significant an event this is .	我想要強調這個事件有多重要 。
this is a device of human making , and it landed in the outer solar system for the first time in human history .	這是人類製造的裝置 , 它在人類史上第一次登入外太陽系 。
it is so significant that , in my mind , this was an event that should have been celebrated with ticker tape parades in every city across the u . s . and europe , and sadly , that wasn't the case .	顯而易見的是 , 在我心目中 , 這個事件應該被讚頌 , 在美國和歐洲的每一個城市中 , 都應該被教導 , 這並非如此 。
it was significant for another reason . this is an international mission , and this event was celebrated in europe , in germany , and the celebratory presentations were given in english accents , and american accents , and german accents , and french and italian and dutch accents .	這很重要 , 因為另一個原因 。 這是國際的使命 , 這事件在歐洲、德國被讚頌 , 而慶祝的英文口音 , 美國口音 , 德國口音 , 法國口音 , 義大利和荷蘭口音 。
it was a moving demonstration of what the words " united nations " are supposed to mean: a true union of nations joined together in a colossal effort for good .	它是關於 「 聯合國 」 的主流示威 , 應該是意義:一個真正的民族團結合在一起 , 為了好而努力 。
and , in this case , it was a massive undertaking to explore a planet , and to come to understand a planetary system that , for all of human history , had been unreachable , and now humans had actually touched it .	在這個例子中 , 它是很大的目的是要探索一個星球 , 為了了解一個星球系統 , 在所有人類歷史上 , 都無法做到 , 現在 , 人類已經觸碰了它 。
so it was i mean , i'm getting goose bumps just talking about it .	所以 , 我的意思是 , 我會去做雞皮疙瘩 。
it was a tremendously emotional event , and it's something that i will personally never forget , and you shouldn't either .	那是個極大的情感事件 , 我個人永遠不會忘記 , 而你也不應該 。
but anyway , the probe took measurements of the atmosphere on the way down , and it also took panoramic pictures .	無論如何 , 探測器在下面的大氣層進行測量 , 它也拍了全景照片 。
and i can't tell you what it was like to see the first pictures of titan's surface from the probe . and this is what we saw .	我沒辦法告訴你們看第一張來自探測器的圖片 , 這是我們看到的 。
and it was a shocker , because it was everything we wanted those other pictures taken from orbit to be .	這是很震驚的 , 因為我們希望其他的照片都能從軌道上拍到 。
it was an unambiguous pattern , a geological pattern .	那是一種不明確的模式 , 一種地質模式 。
it's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids .	它是一種只靠液體流動而形成的趨勢 。
and you can follow these channels and you can see how they all converge .	你可以追蹤這些頻道 , 看看它們如何聚集在一起 。
and they converge into this channel here , which drains into this region .	它們匯集到這條通道 , 流入這個區域 。
you are looking at a shoreline .	你們現在看到的是海岸線 。
was this a shoreline of fluids ? we didn't know .	這是液體的海岸線嗎 ? 我們不知道 。
but this is somewhat of a shoreline .	但這是海岸線 。
this picture is taken at 16 kilometers .	這張照片是在16公里拍攝的 。
this is the picture taken at eight kilometers , ok ? again , the shoreline .	這張照片是在8公里的地方拍的 , 好嗎 ? 再一次 , 海岸線 。
okay , now , 16 kilometers , eight kilometers this is roughly an airline altitude .	好吧 , 現在 , 16公里 , 8公里 , 這大約是航空高度 。
if you were going to take an airplane trip across the u . s . , you would be flying at these altitudes .	如果你要搭飛機橫跨美國 , 你就要飛越高度 。
so , this is the picture you would have at the window of titanian airlines as you fly across the surface of titan .	這張照片是你在泰坦航空的窗口 , 飛越了泰坦的表面 。
and then finally , the probe came to rest on the surface , and i'm going to show you , ladies and gentlemen , the first picture ever taken from the surface of a moon in the outer solar system .	最後 , 探測器出現在表面上 , 我要給各位看 , 各位先生女士 , 第一張從外太陽系表面拍攝的照片 。
and here is the horizon , ok ?	這裡是地平線 , 好嗎 ?
these are probably water ice pebbles , yes ?	這些可能是冰塊 , 是嗎 ?
and obviously , it landed in one of these flat , dark regions and it didn't sink out of sight . so it wasn't fluid that we landed in .	很明顯地 , 它降落在其中一個平坦、深色的區域 , 卻沒有掉落 。 所以 , 我們降落的並不是液體 。
what the probe came down in was basically the titan equivalent of a mud flat .	探測器的內部基本上等同於泥土平面 。
this is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane .	這是一個不穩定的地面 , 充滿了液態甲烷 。
and it's probably the case that this material has washed off the highlands of titan through these channels that we saw , and has drained over billions of years to fill in lowlying basins .	可能是這樣 , 這種材料在我們看到的這些通道上被沖洗掉了數十億年 , 來填滿低水池 。
and that is what the huygens probe landed in .	這就是huygens探測器降落的樣子 。
but still , there was no sign in our images , or even in the huygens' images , of any large , open bodies of fluids .	但 , 儘管如此 , 我們的影像仍然沒有標誌 , 甚至在幽默的影像中 , 沒有任何大型的液體 。
where were they ? it got even more puzzling when we found dunes .	他們在哪裡 ? 當我們找到沙丘時 , 會變得更加困惑 。
ok , so this is our movie of the equatorial region of titan , showing these dunes . these are dunes that are 100 meters tall , separated by a few kilometers , and they go on for miles and miles and miles .	好的 , 這是我們土衛六赤道的電影 , 顯示這些沙丘 。 這些沙丘是100公尺高 , 分開了幾公里 , 它們延伸了幾英里 , 甚至幾英哩 。
there's hundreds , up to a 1 , 000 or 1 , 200 miles of dunes .	高達一千到一千兩百英里的沙丘 。
this is the saharan desert of titan .	這是撒哈拉沙漠 。
it's obviously a place which is very dry , or you wouldn't get dunes .	這顯然是一個非常乾燥的地方 , 或者你不會得到沙丘 。
so again , it got puzzling that there were no bodies of fluid , until finally , we saw lakes in the polar regions .	又一次地 , 沒有液體 , 直到最後 , 我們看到了北極區的湖泊 。
and there is a lake scene in the south polar region of titan .	土衛六南極的湖泊有一景 。
it's about the size of lake ontario .	大約是安大略湖的大小 。
and then , only a week and a half ago , we flew over the north pole of titan and found , again , we found a feature here the size of the caspian sea .	然後 , 一週半前 , 我們飛越了土衛六北極 , 再次發現 , 我們發現了像木星海一樣大的特徵 。
so it seems that the liquids , for some reason we don't understand , or during at least this season , are apparently at the poles of titan .	所以看似液體 , 基於某些我們不了解的原因 , 或至少在這個季節 , 很明顯地是泰坦的極地 。
and i think you would agree that we have found titan is a remarkable , mystical place . it's exotic , it's alien , but yet strangely earthlike , and having earthlike geological formations and a tremendous geographical diversity , and is a fascinating world whose only rival in the solar system for complexity and richness is the earth itself .	我想你們會認同 , 我們發現泰坦是個很了不起、很神奇的地方 。 它是外星人 , 但卻是外星人 , 擁有像地球一樣的地質形成 , 以及極大的地理多樣性 , 而這個令人著迷的世界 , 它只對太陽系的複雜性和豐富 。
and so now we go onto enceladus . enceladus is a small moon , it's about a tenth the size of titan . and you can see it here next to england , just to show you the size . this is not meant to be a threat .	現在我們去土衛二 , 土衛二是個小月球 , 土衛六的大小大約是土衛六的十分之一 。 你可以看到它在英格蘭旁邊 , 展示它的大小 。 這不是威脅 。
and enceladus is very white , it's very bright , and its surface is obviously wrecked with fractures .	土衛二非常白 , 非常明亮 , 它的表面顯然破裂了 。
it is a very geologically active body .	它是一個非常地質活躍的身體 。
but the mother lode of discoveries on enceladus was found at the south pole and we're looking at the south pole here where we found this system of fractures .	但土衛二的發現地懶的媽媽在南極找到 , 我們現在看到的是南極 , 我們發現了這個破裂的系統 。
and they're a different color because they're a different composition .	它們是不同的顏色 , 因為它們是不同的組合 。
they are coated . these fractures are coated with organic materials .	它們是編碼的 。 這些碎片是用有機物質編碼的 。
moreover , this whole , entire region , the south polar region , has elevated temperatures . it's the hottest place on the planet , on the body .	此外 , 這整體 , 整個南極區域 , 有高度溫度 。 它是地球上最熱的地方 。
that's as bizarre as finding that the antarctic on the earth is hotter than the tropics .	這相當奇怪 , 發現地球上的南極比熱帶地區更熱 。
and then , when we took additional pictures , we discovered that from these fractures are issuing jets of fine , icy particles extending hundreds of miles into space .	接著 , 當我們拍攝更多的照片 , 我們發現從這些裂縫的噴射 , 好的 , 冰粒粒擴展了數百英哩的空間 。
and when we colorcode this image , to bring out the faint light levels , we see that these jets feed a plume that , in fact , we see , in other images , goes thousands of miles into the space above enceladus .	當我們繪製這張圖時 , 為了帶來微弱的光量 , 我們看到這些噴射機在其他的圖像中 , 我們看到在土衛二上方數千英哩的空間 。
my team and i have examined images like this , and like this one , and have thought about the other results from cassini .	我和我的團隊已經檢查了像這樣的圖片 , 像這張圖片 , 並考慮了卡西尼的其他結果 。
and we have arrived at the conclusion that these jets may be erupting from pockets of liquid water under the surface of enceladus .	我們得到的結論是 , 這些噴射機可能在土衛二表面下噴發出液態水 。
so we have , possibly , liquid water , organic materials and excess heat .	所以 , 我們可能有液態水、有機物質 , 以及過多的熱量 。
in other words , we have possibly stumbled upon the holy grail of modern day planetary exploration , or in other words , an environment that is potentially suitable for living organisms .	換句話說 , 我們可能偶然發現了現代行星探索的聖杯 , 換句話說 , 一個適合生存有機體的環境 。
and i don't think i need to tell you that the discovery of life elsewhere in our solar system , whether it be on enceladus or elsewhere , would have enormous cultural and scientific implications .	我不認為我需要告訴你們 , 太陽系中其他地方的生命 , 不論是在土衛二或其它地方 , 都會有很大的文化和科學上的影響 。
because if we could demonstrate that genesis had occurred not once , but twice , independently , in our solar system , then that means , by inference , it has occurred a staggering number of times throughout the universe and its 13 . 7 billion year history .	因為如果我們能證明遺傳的發生率不是一次 , 而是獨立的 , 在我們的太陽系中 , 那就意味著 , 根據推論 , 它在宇宙中發生了相當驚人的次數 , 且它有137億年的歷史 。
right now , earth is the only planet still that we know is teeming with life .	目前 , 地球仍然是我們所知的唯一一個星球 , 就是充滿生命 。
it is precious , it is unique , it is still , so far , the only home we've ever known .	它是珍貴的 , 它是獨一無二的 , 目前為止 , 我們所知的唯一家 。
and if any of you were alert and coherent during the 1960s and we'd forgive you , if you weren't , ok you would remember this very famous picture taken by the apollo 8 astronauts in 1968 .	如果你們當中有人在1960年代被警告和同心協力我們會原諒你 , 如果你不是 , 好吧你會記得1968年由阿波羅太空人拍的這張非常著名的照片
it was the first time that earth was imaged from space , and it had an enormous impact on our sense of place in the universe , and our sense of responsibility for the protection of our own planet .	那是第一次地球是來自太空的 , 它對我們所處的宇宙有很大的影響 , 我們對地球的保護有責任 。
well , we on cassini have taken an equivalent first , a picture that no human eye has ever seen before .	嗯 , 我們在卡西尼拍了一張相當於人類前所未見的照片 。
it is a total eclipse of the sun , seen from the other side of saturn .	這是太陽的全食 , 從土星的另一邊看過 。
and in this impossibly beautiful picture , you see the main rings backlit by the sun , you see the refracted image of the sun and you see this ring created , in fact , by the exhalations of enceladus .	在這不美麗的圖片中 , 你可以看到太陽的主要環 , 你可以看到太陽的反射形象 , 實際上 , 由土衛二的延伸而產生 。
but as if that weren't brilliant enough , we can spot , in this beautiful image , sight of our own planet , cradled in the arms of saturn's rings .	但就好像那還不夠聰明 , 我們可以在這個美麗的圖像中看到我們自己的星球 , 在土星光環的手臂上破裂 。
now , there is something deeply moving about seeing ourselves from afar , and capturing the sight of our little , blueocean planet in the skies of other worlds .	現在 , 有一個深切的動力 , 就是從遠處看我們自己 , 捕捉到我們在其它世界的小藍綠色星球 。
and that , and the perspective of ourselves that we gain from that , may be , in the end , the finest reward that we earn from this journey of discovery that started half a century ago .	我們從中得到的這個觀點 , 可能是 , 最終 , 我們從這個發現的旅程中得到最好的獎賞 。
as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped . this slows the delivery of aid after a disaster and hides the economic potential of unused lands and unknown roads . in this short talk , google's lalitesh katragadda demos map maker , a group mapmaking tool that people around the globe are using to map their world .	至於2005年 , 全世界只有百分之十五的人口被繪製 。 這緩慢地在災難後提供援助 , 隱瞞未知的土地和未知的道路的經濟潛力 。 在這短篇短篇的演講中 , 谷歌的拉特•卡特•摩托製造器 , 一個團體地圖 , 讓全世界的人使用地圖來繪製他們的世界 。
collaboration , design , map , technology	合作 , 設計 , 地圖 , 技術 , 技術 ,
lalitesh katragadda: making maps to fight disaster , build economies	最近的katratradda:製作地圖來對抗災難 , 建立經濟體 。
in 2008 , cyclone nargis devastated myanmar .	2008年 , cyclonenargis摧毀了緬甸 。
millions of people were in severe need of help .	數百萬人需要協助 。
the u . n . wanted to rush people and supplies to the area .	聯合國想要把人和供應趕到這個區域 。
but there were no maps , no maps of roads , no maps showing hospitals , no way for help to reach the cyclone victims .	但沒有地圖 , 沒有道路的地圖 , 沒有地圖顯示醫院 , 沒有辦法協助到達自行車受害者 。
when we look at a map of los angeles or london , it is hard to believe that as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geocodable level of detail .	當我們看到洛杉磯或倫敦的地圖時 , 很難相信2005年 , 世界上只有百分之十五的人被描繪成可編碼的細節 。
the u . n . ran headfirst into a problem that the majority of the world's populous faces: not having detailed maps .	聯合國向世界大部分的民粹面臨的問題是:沒有細節的地圖 。
but help was coming .	但 , 協助來了 。
at google , 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120 , 000 kilometers of roads , 3 , 000 hospitals , logistics and relief points .	在google , 40個志願者用一個新軟體來繪製十二萬公里的道路 , 3 , 000間醫院 , 物流和救援點 。
and it took them four days .	他們花了四天的時間 。
the new software they used ? google mapmaker .	他們使用的新軟體 ? google地圖製造商 。
google mapmaker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally .	谷歌地圖製造者是一項科技 , 讓我們能繪製我們所知的地圖 。
people have used this software to map everything from roads to rivers , from schools to local businesses , and video stores to the corner store .	人們用這套軟體來繪製每樣東西 , 從道路到河流 , 從學校到當地的企業 , 及錄影商店到角落 。
nobel prize nominee hernando de soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land .	諾貝爾獎提名赫南多德索托發現大部分開發中國家的經濟起源的關鍵在於克服無數的土地 。
for example , a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapitalized in india alone .	舉例來說 , 光在印度 , 就有一兆美金的房地產 , 仍然是不尋常的 。
in the last year alone , thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information , and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable .	光是在去年 , 170個國家就有數以千計的使用者繪製了數百萬個資訊 , 並創造出一張地圖 , 不可思議的地圖 。
and this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere .	這使得熱情使用者的力量無所不在 。
let's look at some of the maps being created by users right now .	咱們來看看一些用戶所創造出來的地圖 。
so , as we speak , people are mapping the world in these 170 countries .	所以 , 當我們說話時 , 在這170個國家 , 人們在繪製世界 。
you can see bridget in africa who just mapped a road in senegal .	你可以看到非洲的橋 , 剛在塞內加爾繪製了一條道路 。
and , closer to home , chalua , an n . g . road in bangalore .	離家很近 , 查爾 , 班加羅爾的一個n.g.路 。
this is the result of computational geometry , gesture recognition , and machine learning .	這是計算幾何學、姿勢認可和機器學習的結果 。
this is a victory of thousands of users , in hundreds of cities , one user , one edit at a time .	這是數以千計的使用者 , 在數百個城市裡 , 一個用戶 , 一次編輯 。
this is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet .	這是對70%未開發的星球的邀請 。
welcome to the new world .	歡迎來到新世界 。
in 2003 , the palestinian village of budrus mounted a 10monthlong nonviolent protest to stop a barrier being built across their olive groves . did you hear about it ? didn't think so . brazilian filmmaker julia bacha asks why we only pay attention to violence in the israelpalestine conflict and not to the nonviolent leaders who may one day bring peace .	在2003年 , 布德魯斯村落登上了十個月的非暴力抗議 , 阻止了一道障礙 , 橫跨他們的橄欖樹林 。 你聽說過嗎 ? 巴西電影家朱利亞巴哈拉問為什麼我們只關心以色列衝突的暴力 , 而非暴力領導人 , 而非暴力的非暴力領袖 , 而非暴力的領導人 , 他們可能有一天會帶來和平 。
arts , communication , compassion , entertainment , film , peace , violence , war	藝術、溝通、同情、娛樂、電影、和平、暴力、戰爭、戰爭 。
julia bacha: pay attention to nonviolence	朱利亞巴哈:注意到非暴力行為 , 非暴力行為 。
for the last 8 years , i have dedicated my life to documenting the work of israelis and palestinians who are trying to end the conflict using peaceful means .	過去八年來 , 我致力於記錄以色列人和巴勒斯坦人的作品 , 他們試圖用和平的手段結束衝突 。
when i travel with my work across europe and the united states , one question always comes up: where is the palestinian gandhi ?	當我在歐洲和美國旅行時 , 總有一個問題出現了:巴勒斯坦甘地在哪裡 ?
why aren't palestinians using nonviolent resistance ?	為什麼巴勒斯坦人不用非暴力抗爭 ?
the challenge i face when i hear this question is that often i have just returned from the middle east where i spent my time filming dozens of palestinians who are using nonviolence to defend their lands and water resources from israeli soldiers and settlers .	當我聽到這個問題時 , 我面臨的挑戰是 , 我常常從中東回來 , 在那裡 , 我花了數十個時間拍攝無暴力的巴勒斯坦人 , 他們使用非暴力來保護他們的土地和水資源 , 來自以色列士兵和定居者 。
these leaders are trying to forge a massive national nonviolent movement to end the occupation and build peace in the region .	這些領導者試圖忘記一項巨大的全國非暴力運動 , 來終止該地區的職業和平 。
yet , most of you have probably never heard about them .	但 , 你們大部分人可能從來沒有聽過它們 。
this divide between what's happening on the ground and perceptions abroad is one of the key reasons why we don't have yet a palestinian peaceful resistance movement that has been successful .	在國外發生的事情和感知之間的分歧 , 是我們尚未擁有巴勒斯坦和平抗爭運動的關鍵原因之一 。
so i'm here today to talk about the power of attention , the power of your attention , and the emergence and development of nonviolent movements in the west bank , gaza and elsewhere but today , my case study is going to be palestine .	所以 , 我今天在這裡要談的是注意力的力量 , 關注的力量 , 以及在西岸、加薩、以及其他地方的非暴力運動的興起和發展 , 但現今 , 我的案例研究將會是巴勒斯坦 。
i believe that what's mostly missing for nonviolence to grow is not for palestinians to start adopting nonviolence , but for us to start paying attention to those who already are .	我相信 , 非暴力成長最少的不是巴勒斯坦人開始採用非暴力行為 , 而是讓我們開始注意那些已經有的人們 。
allow me to illustrate this point by taking you to this village called budrus .	讓我來說明一下這個點 , 讓我帶你們到這個叫做布德魯斯的村落 。
about seven years ago , they faced extinction , because israel announced it would build a separation barrier , and part of this barrier would be built on top of the village .	大約七年前 , 他們面臨滅絕 , 因為以色列宣佈要建造一個隔離障礙 , 其中一部分的障礙是建在村落的 。
they would lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded , so they would lose free access to the rest of the west bank .	他們會失去百分之四十的土地 , 被包圍 , 所以他們會失去西岸的權利 。
through inspired local leadership , they launched a peaceful resistance campaign to stop that from happening .	透過當地的領導力 , 他們發起了和平的抗爭活動 , 來阻止這一切發生 。
let me show you some brief clips , so you have a sense for what that actually looked like on the ground .	讓我給你們看一些短片 , 所以你們可以理解在地面上看起來是什麼樣子 。
palestinian woman: we were told the wall would separate palestine from israel .	巴勒斯坦女人:我們被告知牆將巴勒斯坦和以色列分開 。
here in budrus , we realized the wall would steal our land .	在布德魯斯 , 我們發現牆會偷走我們的土地 。
israeli man: the fence has , in fact , created a solution to terror .	以色列男人:柵欄事實上 , 創造了恐怖的解決方案 。
man: today you're invited to a peaceful march .	男子:今天你被邀請去和平遊行 。
you are joined by dozens of your israeli brothers and sisters .	你被數十位以色列兄弟姐妹加入 。
israeli activist: nothing scares the army more than nonviolent opposition .	以色列的行動主義者:軍隊比非暴力的反對者更害怕 。
woman: we saw the men trying to push the soldiers , but none of them could do that .	女人:我們看到男人試著推動士兵 , 但沒有人能這麼做 。
but i think the girls could do it .	但我認為女孩們可以做到 。
fatah party member: we must empty our minds of traditional thinking .	法塔赫派對會員:我們必須清空傳統思維的思維 。
hamas party member: we were in complete harmony , and we wanted to spread it to all of palestine .	哈馬斯黨員:我們完全和諧 , 我們想要把它散播給所有的巴勒斯坦 。
chanting: one united nation .	聊天:一個聯合國 。
fatah , hamas and the popular front !	法塔、哈馬斯和流行的前線 !
news anchor: the clashes over the fence continue .	新聞主持:圍欄持續 。
reporter: israeli border police were sent to disperse the crowd .	記者:以色列邊界警察被送去散播群眾 。
they were allowed to use any force necessary .	他們被允許使用任何必要的力量 。
man: these are live bullets .	男人:這些是活的子彈 。
it's like fallujah . shooting everywhere .	這就好像失敗了 。 到處開槍 。
israeli activist: i was sure we were all going to die .	以色列的行動主義者:我相信我們都會死 。
but there were others around me who weren't even cowering .	但在我身邊 , 甚至沒有牛 。
israeli soldier: a nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear] .	以色列士兵:非暴力抗議不會阻止它 。
protester: this is a peaceful march .	普林斯特:這是和平的遊行 。
there is no need to use violence .	沒有需要使用暴力 。
chanting: we can do it ! we can do it !	聊天:我們能做到 ! 我們可以做到 !
julia bacha: when i first heard about the story of budrus , i was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago , in 2003 .	朱利亞巴哈:當我第一次聽說布德魯斯的故事時 , 我很驚訝國際媒體並沒有報導七年前發生的非凡事件發生 。
what was even more surprising was the fact that budrus was successful .	更令人驚訝的是布德魯斯成功了 。
the residents , after 10 months of peaceful resistance , convinced the israeli government to move the route of the barrier off their lands and to the green line , which is the internationally recognized boundary between israel and the palestinian territories .	居民們 , 經過10個月的和平抗爭 , 說服以色列政府把障礙從他們的土地上移除 , 移到綠線上 , 也就是國際認可以色列和巴勒斯坦領土之間的界線 。
the resistance in budrus has since spread to villages across the west bank and to palestinian neighborhoods in jerusalem .	布德魯斯的抵抗力已經散播到整個西岸村落 , 到耶路撒冷的巴勒斯坦社區 。
yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories .	然而 , 媒體仍然沉默於這些故事 。
this silence carries profound consequences for the likelihood that nonviolence can grow , or even survive , in palestine .	這種沉默會帶來深遠的後果 , 造成非暴力的可能性 , 甚至在巴勒斯坦存活 。
violent resistance and nonviolent resistance share one very important thing in common ; they are both a form of theater seeking an audience to their cause .	暴力抗拒和非暴力抗拒有著一個非常重要的共通點 , 它們都是戲院尋求觀眾的形式 。
if violent actors are the only ones constantly getting frontpage covers and attracting international attention to the palestinian issue , it becomes very hard for nonviolent leaders to make the case to their communities that civil disobedience is a viable option in addressing their plight .	如果暴力演員是唯一經常被封鎖的報導 , 吸引國際關注巴勒斯坦議題的議題 , 對他們的社區來說 , 非暴力領袖來說 , 民間不服從是解決他們的困境的可行選項 。
the power of attention is probably going to come as no surprise to the parents in the room .	注意力的力量可能對房間的父母也不會感到驚訝 。
the surest way to make your child throw increasingly louder tantrums is by giving him attention the first time he throws a fit .	讓孩子變得越來越大聲的螞蟻 , 最確定的方式就是第一次讓他注意到他丟掉一個適合的時刻 。
the tantrum will become what childhood psychologists call a functional behavior , since the child has learned that he can get parental attention out of it .	幻肢會變成兒時心理學家所謂的功能性行為 , 因為孩子已經知道他能從中得到父母的注意力 。
parents can incentivize or disincentivize behavior simply by giving or withdrawing attention to their children .	父母可以鼓勵或不獎勵行為 , 僅僅僅是給予孩子們注意或忽略他們的孩子 。
but that's true for adults too .	但對成人來說也是如此 。
in fact , the behavior of entire communities and countries can be influenced , depending on where the international community chooses to focus its attention .	事實上 , 整個社區和國家的行為會受到影響 , 取決於國際社會選擇要把注意力聚焦的地方 。
i believe that at the core of ending the conflict in the middle east and bringing peace is for us to transform nonviolence into a functional behavior by giving a lot more attention to the nonviolent leaders on the ground today .	我相信 , 終結中東衝突的核心 , 帶來和平 , 是我們把非暴力行為轉化為一個功能性行為 , 做法是讓現今非暴力領袖更加關注非暴力領袖 。
in the course of taking my film to villages in the west bank , in gaza and in east jerusalem , i have seen the impact that even one documentary film can have in influencing the transformation .	在拍攝我拍攝的影片 , 到西岸、加薩 , 以及東耶路撒冷的村莊 , 我看到即使是一部紀錄片也能影響轉變 。
in a village called wallajeh , which sits very close to jerusalem , the community was facing a very similar plight to budrus .	在一個叫瓦拉je的村子裡 , 位在耶路撒冷附近 , 社區正面臨類似的困境 。
they were going to be surrounded , lose a lot of their lands and not have freedom of access , either to the west bank or jerusalem .	他們會被包圍 , 失去許多土地 , 沒有任何自由 , 不論是西岸或耶路撒冷 。
they had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention .	兩年來 , 他們一直在使用非暴力行為 , 但從沒人注意到他們成長的過程中 , 他們已經被剝奪 。
so we organized a screening .	所以我們組織了一個螢幕 。
a week later , they held the most wellattended and disciplined demonstration to date .	一個禮拜後 , 他們舉辦了最好的示威 , 展現到目前為止 。
the organizers say that the villagers , upon seeing the story of budrus documented in a film , felt that there were indeed people following what they were doing , that people cared .	組織者說 , 村民們 , 看到布德魯士的故事 , 在電影中 , 感覺到確實有人在追蹤他們在做的事 , 人們在乎 。
so they kept on going .	所以他們繼續走下去 。
on the israeli side , there is a new peace movement called solidariot , which means solidarity in hebrew .	在以色列 , 有一個新的和平運動 , 叫做索利達里 , 意思是希伯來語的團結 。
the leaders of this movement have been using budrus as one of their primary recruiting tools .	這個運動的領導者一直用布德魯斯作為他們主要的招募工具之一 。
they report that israelis who had never been active before , upon seeing the film , understand the power of nonviolence and start joining their activities .	他們說 , 以色列人從來沒有活躍過 , 看電影 , 了解非暴力的力量 , 開始加入他們的活動 。
the examples of wallajeh and the solidariot movement show that even a smallbudget independent film can play a role in transforming nonviolence into a functional behavior .	華拉jeh和slidariot運動顯示即使是小型的獨立製片也能扮演一個角色 , 將非暴力轉變成一個功能行為 。
now imagine the power that big media players could have if they started covering the weekly nonviolent demonstrations happening in villages like bil'in , ni'lin , wallajeh , in jerusalem neighborhoods like sheikh jarrah and silwan the nonviolent leaders would become more visible , valued and effective in their work .	想像一下 , 大型媒體玩家能夠擁有的力量 , 如果他們開始報導每週的非暴力演示 , 在村落裡發生 , 比如比利利、尼林、瓦拉、瓦約、耶路撒冷的社區 , 如夏克•賈拉和絲瓦 , 非暴力領導人在工作中會變得更明顯、更有價值、更有效率 。
i believe that the most important thing is to understand that if we don't pay attention to these efforts , they are invisible , and it's as if they never happened .	我相信最重要的是要了解 , 如果我們不注意這些努力 , 它們是看不見的 , 就好像他們從來沒有發生過 。
but i have seen first hand that if we do , they will multiply .	但 , 我先看過如果我們這麼做 , 他們會乘以乘法 。
if they multiply , their influence will grow in the overall israelipalestinian conflict .	假如他們相乘 , 他們的影響會在以色列的衝突中成長 。
and theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation .	他們的影響力就是那種最終能解開情況的影響力 。
these leaders have proven that nonviolence works in places like budrus .	這些領袖證明了非暴力行為在布德魯斯之類的地方 。
let's give them attention so they can prove it works everywhere .	讓我們把注意力給他們 , 讓他們可以隨時證明它是有效的 。
simon sinek has a simple but powerful model for inspirational leadership all starting with a golden circle and the question " why ? " his examples include apple , martin luther king , and the wright brothers . . .	西蒙辛克有個簡單但有力的領導模式 , 都是來自金圈 , 問題是:為什麼 ? 他的例子包括蘋果、馬丁路德金恩 , 以及萊特兄弟 。
bullseye , business , entrepreneur , leadership , sales , selling , success	牛兒、企業、企業家、領導力、銷售、銷售、成功、企業 。
simon sinek: how great leaders inspire action	西蒙.桑克:偉大的領導人如何啟發行動 ?
how do you explain when things don't go as we assume ?	你要如何解釋當事情不如我們所想的那樣 ?
or better , how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions ?	或更好的是 , 你要如何解釋 , 當其他人能夠達成那些看似違反所有假設的事物 ?
for example: why is apple so innovative ?	例如:為什麼蘋果如此創新 ?
year after year , after year , after year , they're more innovative than all their competition .	年復一年 , 年復一年 , 他們比所有的競爭都更有創意 。
and yet , they're just a computer company .	然而 , 他們只是一家電腦公司 。
they're just like everyone else .	他們就像其他人一樣 。
they have the same access to the same talent , the same agencies , the same consultants , the same media .	他們有相同的才能 , 同樣的機構 , 同樣的顧問 , 同樣的媒體 。
then why is it that they seem to have something different ?	那麼 , 為什麼他們似乎有不同的東西 ?
why is it that martin luther king led the civil rights movement ?	為什麼馬丁路德金恩帶領民權運動 ?
he wasn't the only man who suffered in a precivil rights america , and he certainly wasn't the only great orator of the day .	他不是唯一一個在美國受苦的人 , 他肯定不是那天唯一的偉大的演說者 。
and why is it that the wright brothers were able to figure out controlled , powered man flight when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified , better funded . . .	為什麼萊特兄弟能夠想出控制權力的飛行 , 尤其是其他更有資格、更有資金的團隊......
and they didn't achieve powered man flight , and the wright brothers beat them to it .	他們沒有實現人類飛行 , 萊特兄弟打敗了飛機 。
there's something else at play here .	這裡還有別的東西在演奏 。
about three and a half years ago i made a discovery .	大約三年半前 , 我做了一項發現 。
and this discovery profoundly changed my view on how i thought the world worked , and it even profoundly changed the way in which i operate in it .	這項發現深深地改變了我對世界運作的看法 , 甚至深深改變了我對世界的運作方式 。
as it turns out , there's a pattern .	結果發現 , 有一種模式 。
as it turns out , all the great and inspiring leaders and organizations in the world whether it's apple or martin luther king or the wright brothers they all think , act and communicate the exact same way .	事實證明 , 世界上所有的偉大、鼓舞人心的領導人和組織 , 不論是蘋果、馬丁路德金 , 或是他們都認為的萊特兄弟 , 都採取相同的方式來溝通 。
and it's the complete opposite to everyone else .	這完全相反 。
all i did was codify it , and it's probably the world's simplest idea .	我所做的就是編寫它 , 它可能是世界上最簡單的點子 。
i call it the golden circle .	我稱之為黃金圈 。
why ? how ? what ?	為什麼 ? 怎麼做 ? 什麼 ?
this little idea explains why some organizations and some leaders are able to inspire where others aren't .	這個小點子解釋了為什麼有些組織和一些領袖能夠啟發其他人不在哪裡 。
let me define the terms really quickly .	讓我很快的定義一下這個詞 。
every single person , every single organization on the planet knows what they do , 100 percent .	地球上每一個人 , 每一個組織都知道自己在做什麼 , 百分之百 。
some know how they do it , whether you call it your differentiated value proposition or your proprietary process or your usp .	有些人知道他們怎麼做 , 不管你稱它為你不同的價值提議 , 或你的屬性過程 , 或你的usp 。
but very , very few people or organizations know why they do what they do .	但很少人或組織知道他們為什麼要做事 。
and by " why " i don't mean " to make a profit . "	根據 「 為什麼 」 我不是要 「 賺錢 」 的意思 。
that's a result . it's always a result .	這是結果 。 結果總是是結果 。
by " why , " i mean: what's your purpose ?	根據 「 為什麼 」 我的意思是:你的目的是什麼 ?
what's your cause ? what's your belief ?	你的原因是什麼 ? 你的信念是什麼 ?
why does your organization exist ?	你的組織為什麼存在 ?
why do you get out of bed in the morning ?	為什麼早上要離開床 ?
and why should anyone care ?	為什麼有人要在乎 ?
well , as a result , the way we think , the way we act , the way we communicate is from the outside in .	結果就是 , 我們思考的方式 , 我們行動的方式 , 我們溝通的方式是從外部傳遞出來的 。
it's obvious . we go from the clearest thing to the fuzziest thing .	很明顯 , 我們從最清晰的東西到最瘋狂的東西 。
but the inspired leaders and the inspired organizations regardless of their size , regardless of their industry all think , act and communicate from the inside out .	但激發人心的領導人和激勵人心的組織 , 不論他們大小 , 不論他們的產業都認為、行動 , 以及從內部溝通 。
let me give you an example .	讓我舉個例子 。
i use apple because they're easy to understand and everybody gets it .	我用蘋果是因為它們很容易理解 , 每個人都懂 。
if apple were like everyone else , a marketing message from them might sound like this: " we make great computers .	如果蘋果跟其他人一樣 , 行銷訊息也許聽起來會像這樣: 「 我們製造出很棒的電腦 。
they're beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	它們設計得很漂亮 , 很簡單 , 很容易使用和使用者 。
want to buy one ? " " meh . "	想要買一台嗎 ? 」 「 啊 。 」
and that's how most of us communicate .	這就是我們大多數人溝通的方式 。
that's how most marketing is done , that's how most sales is done and that's how most of us communicate interpersonally .	大部分的行銷是這樣做的 , 大部分的銷售是這樣做的 , 這就是我們大多數人之間的溝通方式 。
we say what we do , we say how we're different or how we're better and we expect some sort of a behavior , a purchase , a vote , something like that .	我們說我們所做的事 , 我們說我們是不同的 , 或我們如何更好 , 期待某種行為 , 購買、投票 , 諸如此類 。
here's our new law firm: we have the best lawyers with the biggest clients , we always perform for our clients who do business with us .	這是我們的新法律公司:我們有最好的律師 , 有最大的客戶 , 我們總是為我們的客戶和我們做生意 。
here's our new car: it gets great gas mileage , it has leather seats , buy our car .	這是我們的新車:它有很大的氣體 , 它有皮革座位 , 買我們的車 。
here's how apple actually communicates .	蘋果是如何溝通的 。
" everything we do , we believe in challenging the status quo .	「 我們所做的每件事 , 我們都相信挑戰現狀 。
we believe in thinking differently .	我們相信用不同的方式思考 。
the way we challenge the status quo is by making our products beautifully designed , simple to use and user friendly .	我們挑戰現狀的方式是讓我們的產品設計漂亮 , 簡單地使用和使用友善 。
we just happen to make great computers .	我們剛好能製造出很棒的電腦 。
want to buy one ? "	想要買一台嗎 ? 」
totally different right ? you're ready to buy a computer from me .	完全不一樣了嗎 ? 你準備好跟我買一台電腦了 。
all i did was reverse the order of the information .	我所做的只是逆轉資訊的順序 。
what it proves to us is that people don't buy what you do ; people buy why you do it .	它向我們證明 , 人們不買你做什麼 ; 人們買你為何這麼做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要這麼做 。
this explains why every single person in this room is perfectly comfortable buying a computer from apple .	這解釋了為什麼在座的每個人都很舒服從蘋果購買一台電腦 。
but we're also perfectly comfortable buying an mp3 player from apple , or a phone from apple , or a dvr from apple .	但我們也非常自在地購買蘋果的mp3播放器 , 或蘋果的手機 , 或蘋果的dvr 。
but , as i said before , apple's just a computer company .	但 , 就像我之前說的 , 蘋果只是一家電腦公司 。
there's nothing that distinguishes them structurally from any of their competitors .	沒有任何與他們競爭者的結構分辨出來的 。
their competitors are all equally qualified to make all of these products .	他們的競爭者都同等資格做出這些產品 。
in fact , they tried .	事實上 , 他們試過 。
a few years ago , gateway came out with flat screen tvs .	幾年前 , gateway出版了平面螢幕電視 。
they're eminently qualified to make flat screen tvs .	他們很明顯地申請製作平面螢幕 。
they've been making flat screen monitors for years .	他們多年來都在做平面螢幕監視器 。
dell came out with mp3 players and pdas , and they make great quality products , and they can make perfectly welldesigned products and nobody bought one .	dell和mp3玩家和pdas一起出發 , 他們製造了很棒的產品 , 他們可以做出完美的設計 , 沒有人買的 。
in fact , talking about it now , we can't even imagine buying an mp3 player from dell .	事實上 , 談到現在 , 我們甚至無法想像購買一名mp3球員 。
why would you buy an mp3 player from a computer company ?	為什麼要從電腦公司買mp3球員 ?
but we do it every day .	但我們每天都這樣做 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要這麼做 。
the goal is not to do business with everybody who needs what you have .	目標並不是要跟任何需要的東西做生意 。
the goal is to do business with people who believe what you believe .	目標是和相信你所相信的人做生意 。
here's the best part: none of what i'm telling you is my opinion .	最棒的部分是:我告訴你們的不是我的意見 。
it's all grounded in the tenets of biology .	全都在生物學的網絡中生存 。
not psychology , biology .	不是心理學、生物學 。
if you look at a crosssection of the human brain , looking from the top down , what you see is the human brain is actually broken into three major components that correlate perfectly with the golden circle .	如果你觀察人類大腦的十字路口 , 從下面往下看 , 你會發現人類的大腦其實是分成三個主要元件 , 和黃金圈完全相關 。
our newest brain , our homo sapien brain , our neocortex , corresponds with the " what " level .	我們最新的大腦 , 我們的智人大腦 , 我們的新皮層 , 和 「 什麼 」 等級相對應 。
the neocortex is responsible for all of our rational and analytical thought and language .	新皮層負責所有的理性、分析的想法和語言 。
the middle two sections make up our limbic brains , and our limbic brains are responsible for all of our feelings , like trust and loyalty .	中間兩個部分組成了我們的邊緣大腦 , 我們的邊緣大腦負責所有的感受 , 比如信任和忠誠 。
it's also responsible for all human behavior , all decisionmaking , and it has no capacity for language .	它也負責所有人類的行為 , 所有的決策 , 且它沒有語言的能力 。
in other words , when we communicate from the outside in , yes , people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features and benefits and facts and figures .	換句話說 , 當我們從外部溝通時 , 是的 , 人們能了解大量複雜的資訊 , 如特徵、好處、事實和數字 。
it just doesn't drive behavior .	它不會驅動行為 。
when we can communicate from the inside out , we're talking directly to the part of the brain that controls behavior , and then we allow people to rationalize it with the tangible things we say and do .	當我們從內部溝通時 , 我們直接和控制行為的部分談話 , 然後我們讓人們以我們所說及做的事情將它合理化 。
this is where gut decisions come from .	這就是腸道決策的來源 。
you know , sometimes you can give somebody all the facts and figures , and they say , " i know what all the facts and details say , but it just doesn't feel right . "	你知道 , 有時候你可以給別人所有事實和數字 , 他們會說: 「 我知道所有事實和細節都說了什麼 , 但這感覺不對 。 」
why would we use that verb , it doesn't " feel " right ?	為什麼我們要用這個動詞 , 感覺不對 ?
because the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking doesn't control language .	因為控制決策的大腦區域無法控制語言 。
and the best we can muster up is , " i don't know . it just doesn't feel right . "	最好的一點就是: 「 我不知道 , 感覺不對 。 」
or sometimes you say you're leading with your heart , or you're leading with your soul .	或者有時候你說你是帶著你的心 , 或者你是帶著你的靈魂領導 。
well , i hate to break it to you , those aren't other body parts controlling your behavior .	我討厭打破你 , 那些不是身體的部位控制你的行為 。
it's all happening here in your limbic brain , the part of the brain that controls decisionmaking and not language .	這一切都發生在你的邊緣腦中 , 大腦控制決策 , 而非語言的部分 。
but if you don't know why you do what you do , and people respond to why you do what you do , then how will you ever get people to vote for you , or buy something from you , or , more importantly , be loyal and want to be a part of what it is that you do .	但如果你不知道你為什麼做事 , 人們會回應你為什麼做事 , 那麼你會如何讓人們投票給你 , 或從你身上買東西 , 或更重要的是 , 忠誠 , 想要成為你做的事的一部分 。
again , the goal is not just to sell to people who need what you have ; the goal is to sell to people who believe what you believe .	同樣的 , 目標不只是賣給需要的人 ; 目標是賣給那些相信你所相信的人 。
the goal is not just to hire people who need a job ; it's to hire people who believe what you believe .	目標不只是僱用需要工作的人 ; 而是僱用那些相信你所相信的人 。
i always say that , you know , if you hire people just because they can do a job , they'll work for your money , but if you hire people who believe what you believe , they'll work for you with blood and sweat and tears .	我總是說 , 如果你雇用人們因為他們能做事 , 他們會為你的錢工作 , 但如果你雇用你相信你所相信的人 , 他們會用血、流汗和淚來工作 。
and nowhere else is there a better example of this than with the wright brothers .	沒有其他地方比萊特兄弟更好的例子 。
most people don't know about samuel pierpont langley .	大部分的人不知道samuelpierpontlangley 。
and back in the early 20th century , the pursuit of powered man flight was like the dot com of the day .	回到二十世紀初 , 追求權力飛行的追求就像白天的網路com一樣 。
everybody was trying it .	每個人都在嘗試 。
and samuel pierpont langley had , what we assume , to be the recipe for success .	而samuelpierpontlangley認為成功的配方
i mean , even now , you ask people , " why did your product or why did your company fail ? "	我是說 , 即使是現在 , 你問人們: 「 你的產品為什麼會失敗 ? 為什麼公司會失敗 ? 」
and people always give you the same permutation of the same three things: undercapitalized , the wrong people , bad market conditions .	人們總是給予你相同的三件事:被低估、錯誤的人、糟糕的市場條件 。
it's always the same three things , so let's explore that .	永遠都是相同的三件事 , 讓我們來探索它 。
samuel pierpont langley was given 50 , 000 dollars by the war department to figure out this flying machine .	samuelpierpontlangley得到了五萬美金的戰爭部門 , 想出這台飛行機器 。
money was no problem .	錢沒有問題 。
he held a seat at harvard and worked at the smithsonian and was extremely wellconnected ; he knew all the big minds of the day .	他在哈佛舉辦一席 , 在史密森尼工作 , 非常有連結 , 他很清楚白天所有的心智 。
he hired the best minds money could find and the market conditions were fantastic .	他雇用最好的心靈金錢 , 可以找到 , 市場條件很棒 。
the new york times followed him around everywhere , and everyone was rooting for langley .	紐約時報到處都跟著他 , 每個人都根深蒂固 。
then how come we've never heard of samuel pierpont langley ?	那我們怎麼從來沒有聽過samuelpierpontlangley ?
a few hundred miles away in dayton ohio , orville and wilbur wright , they had none of what we consider to be the recipe for success .	幾百英哩遠在俄亥俄州 , 奧維爾和威爾布萊特 , 他們沒有我們認為成功的配方 。
they had no money ; they paid for their dream with the proceeds from their bicycle shop ; not a single person on the wright brothers' team had a college education , not even orville or wilbur ; and the new york times followed them around nowhere .	他們沒有錢 , 他們付錢給他們的夢想 , 用自行車店裡的收入 ; 萊特兄弟的團隊沒有任何一個人有大學教育 , 甚至沒有威爾或威爾伯 ; 紐約時報也跟著他們走 。
the difference was , orville and wilbur were driven by a cause , by a purpose , by a belief .	差別在於 , 奧維爾和威爾布爾被一個目標所驅動 , 被一個信念所驅動 。
they believed that if they could figure out this flying machine , it'll change the course of the world .	他們相信 , 如果他們能搞清楚飛行機器 , 它就會改變世界的軌道 。
samuel pierpont langley was different .	samuelpierpontlangley不一樣 。
he wanted to be rich , and he wanted to be famous .	他想要變富有 , 他想要成為有名的 。
he was in pursuit of the result .	他在追求結果 。
he was in pursuit of the riches .	他在追求富裕 。
and lo and behold , look what happened .	你看 , 發生了什麼事 。
the people who believed in the wright brothers' dream worked with them with blood and sweat and tears .	相信萊特兄弟的夢想和血汗、淚水合作的人 。
the others just worked for the paycheck .	另外一些人才剛為付錢工作 。
and they tell stories of how every time the wright brothers went out , they would have to take five sets of parts , because that's how many times they would crash before they came in for supper .	他們說的故事是每當萊特兄弟出去的時候 , 他們就要服用五組零件 , 因為這是他們進入供應器之前會發生多少次 。
and , eventually , on december 17th , 1903 , the wright brothers took flight , and no one was there to even experience it .	到了1903年12月17日 , 萊特兄弟一起飛 , 甚至沒有人去體驗它 。
we found out about it a few days later .	幾天後我們就發現了 。
and further proof that langley was motivated by the wrong thing: the day the wright brothers took flight , he quit .	更進一步的證明 , 蘭利的動機是錯誤的:萊特兄弟搭飛機的那天 , 他辭職了 。
he could have said , " that's an amazing discovery , guys , and i will improve upon your technology , " but he didn't .	他可能會說: 「 那真是個驚人的發現 , 各位 , 我會改善你的科技 。 」 但他沒有 。
he wasn't first , he didn't get rich , he didn't get famous so he quit .	他不是第一個 , 他沒有變有錢 , 他沒有變有名 , 所以他放棄了 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要這麼做 。
and if you talk about what you believe , you will attract those who believe what you believe .	如果你談到你所相信的事物 , 你會吸引那些相信你所相信的人 。
but why is it important to attract those who believe what you believe ?	但為什麼要吸引那些相信你所相信的人呢 ?
something called the law of diffusion of innovation , and if you don't know the law , you definitely know the terminology .	所謂的創新定律 , 如果你不知道法律 , 你絕對知道術語 。
the first two and a half percent of our population are our innovators .	我們人口的前2.5%是我們的創新者 。
the next 13 and a half percent of our population are our early adopters .	接下來的13.5%是我們早期使用者 。
the next 34 percent are your early majority , your late majority and your laggards .	下一個百分之三十四是你早期的多數人 , 你的多數人 , 和你的大眾 。
the only reason these people buy touch tone phones is because you can't buy rotary phones anymore .	這些人購買觸覺電話的唯一理由 , 就是因為你已經買不起了壞電話了 。
we all sit at various places at various times on this scale , but what the law of diffusion of innovation tells us is that if you want massmarket success or massmarket acceptance of an idea , you cannot have it until you achieve this tipping point between 15 and 18 percent market penetration , and then the system tips .	我們都坐在不同時間點 , 但創新的傳播法則告訴我們 , 如果你想要大眾市場成功或大眾市場接受這個想法 , 直到你達到15%到18%之間的趨勢 , 再來是系統 。
and i love asking businesses , " what's your conversion on new business ? "	我喜歡問企業: 「 你對新事業的轉變是什麼 ? 」
and they love to tell you , " oh , it's about 10 percent , " proudly .	他們很喜歡跟你說: 「 喔 , 大約是10% 。 」
well , you can trip over 10 percent of the customers .	嗯 , 你可以超過百分之十的客戶 。
we all have about 10 percent who just " get it . "	我們都有大約百分之十的 「 了解它 」 。
that's how we describe them , right ?	這就是我們描述它們的方式 , 對吧 ?
that's like that gut feeling , " oh , they just get it . "	這就像是那種直覺的感覺: 「 喔 , 他們就懂了 。 」
the problem is: how do you find the ones that get it before you're doing business with them versus the ones who don't get it ?	問題是:你要如何找到那些在和他們做生意前做的事 , 而不是那些不懂的人 ?
so it's this here , this little gap that you have to close , as jeffrey moore calls it , " crossing the chasm " because , you see , the early majority will not try something until someone else has tried it first .	所以這就是這個 , 你必須關閉的小差距 , 如同jefreymoore所說的 , " 交叉迷人 " 因為 , 你看 , 早期大部分的人不會嘗試一些東西 , 直到有人先試過 。
and these guys , the innovators and the early adopters , they're comfortable making those gut decisions .	這些人 , 創新者和早期採用者 , 他們很自在地做出這些腸道決策 。
they're more comfortable making those intuitive decisions that are driven by what they believe about the world and not just what product is available .	他們更自在地做出那些由他們所相信世界所驅動的直覺決策 , 而不只是產品的可用性 。
these are the people who stood in line for six hours to buy an iphone when they first came out , when you could have just walked into the store the next week and bought one off the shelf .	他們是排隊排隊六個小時買iphone的人 , 當他們第一次出來時 , 當你下週走進商店 , 買了一台手機 。
these are the people who spent 40 , 000 dollars on flat screen tvs when they first came out , even though the technology was substandard .	這些人花了四萬美金在平面電視上 , 剛剛出現的時候 , 花了四萬美金 , 儘管這項技術是訂閱的 。
and , by the way , they didn't do it because the technology was so great ; they did it for themselves .	順帶一提 , 他們沒有這麼做 , 因為這項技術太棒了 , 他們自己做到了 。
it's because they wanted to be first .	那是因為他們想要成為第一人 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it and what you do simply proves what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼做這件事 , 以及你做的事 , 只要證明你所相信的事 。
in fact , people will do the things that prove what they believe .	事實上 , 人們會做些證明他們所相信的事 。
the reason that person bought the iphone in the first six hours , stood in line for six hours , was because of what they believed about the world , and how they wanted everybody to see them: they were first .	前六個小時買下iphone的原因 , 排隊六個小時 , 是因為他們對這個世界的信念 , 以及他們希望大家見到的樣子:他們是第一個 。
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼要這麼做 。
so let me give you a famous example , a famous failure and a famous success of the law of diffusion of innovation .	讓我舉個有名的例子 , 一個有名的失敗和一個著名的創新定律 。
first , the famous failure .	首先 , 著名的失敗 。
it's a commercial example .	這是一個商業的例子 。
as we said before , a second ago , the recipe for success is money and the right people and the right market conditions , right ? you should have success then .	如同我們先前所說的 , 成功的食譜是金錢、對的人、對的市場狀況 , 對吧 ? 你應該有成功 。
from the time tivo came out about eight or nine years ago to this current day , they are the single highestquality product on the market , hands down , there is no dispute .	從八、九年前 , tivo出來到現今 , 他們是市場上最高品質的產品 , 手向下 , 沒有爭議 。
they were extremely wellfunded .	他們非常有資格 。
market conditions were fantastic .	市場條件很棒 。
i mean , we use tivo as verb .	我的意思是 , 我們用tivo作為動詞 。
i tivo stuff on my piece of junk time warner dvr all the time .	我經常在垃圾時間華納dvr身上提煉東西 。
but tivo's a commercial failure .	但tivo是個商業失敗 。
they've never made money .	他們從來沒有賺到錢 。
and when they went ipo , their stock was at about 30 or 40 dollars and then plummeted , and it's never traded above 10 .	當他們去ipo , 他們的股票價大約是三十到四十美金然後從來沒有超過十美金的交易
in fact , i don't think it's even traded above six , except for a couple of little spikes .	事實上 , 我不認為它在六號以上的交易 , 除了幾個小點 。
because you see , when tivo launched their product they told us all what they had .	因為你知道 , 當tivo發表他們的產品他們告訴我們他們所有的產品 。
they said , " we have a product that pauses live tv , skips commercials , rewinds live tv and memorizes your viewing habits without you even asking . "	他們說: 「 我們的產品會暫停現場電視、跳過廣告、rewinds現場電視 , 並記住你甚至沒有問過的視覺習慣 。 」
and the cynical majority said , " we don't believe you .	多數人說: 「 我們不相信你 。
we don't need it . we don't like it .	我們不需要它 , 我們不喜歡它 。
you're scaring us . "	你害怕我們 。 」
what if they had said , " if you're the kind of person who likes to have total control over every aspect of your life , boy , do we have a product for you .	如果他們說: 「 如果你是那種想要完全掌控生活的人們 , 天啊 , 我們有你的產品給你 。
it pauses live tv , skips commercials , memorizes your viewing habits , etc . , etc . "	它會暫停現場電視、跳過廣告 , 記住你的視覺習慣等等 。 」
people don't buy what you do ; they buy why you do it , and what you do simply serves as the proof of what you believe .	人們不買你做什麼 ; 他們買你為什麼 , 而你所做的就是證明你所相信的 。
now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation .	現在讓我給你們一個成功的例子 , 說明創新的傳播法則 。
in the summer of 1963 , 250 , 000 people showed up on the mall in washington to hear dr . king speak .	1963年夏天 , 有25萬人出現在華盛頓大廳 , 聽見金恩博士演講 。
they sent out no invitations , and there was no website to check the date .	他們沒有發送邀請 , 沒有網站去查看日期 。
how do you do that ?	你是怎麼做到的 ?
well , dr . king wasn't the only man in america who was a great orator .	金恩博士不是美國唯一一個是偉大的演說者 。
he wasn't the only man in america who suffered in a precivil rights america .	他不是美國唯一受過公民權威的男人 。
in fact , some of his ideas were bad .	事實上 , 他的一些想法很糟 。
but he had a gift .	但他有一個禮物 。
he didn't go around telling people what needed to change in america .	他沒有到處告訴人們美國需要什麼才能改變 。
he went around and told people what he believed .	他四處去告訴人們他所相信的 。
" i believe , i believe , i believe , " he told people .	「 我相信 , 我相信 , 我相信 , 」 他告訴人們 。
and people who believed what he believed took his cause , and they made it their own , and they told people .	相信他所相信的成因的人 , 讓他成為自己 , 他們告訴人們 。
and some of those people created structures to get the word out to even more people .	其中一些人創造了結構 , 讓更多人發出這個詞 。
and lo and behold , 250 , 000 people showed up on the right day at the right time to hear him speak .	沒錯 , 有25萬人在對的日子 , 聽到他說話 。
how many of them showed up for him ?	有多少人為他出現 ?
they showed up for themselves .	他們為了自己而出現 。
it's what they believed about america that got them to travel in a bus for eight hours to stand in the sun in washington in the middle of august .	這是他們相信的美國 , 讓他們在巴士旅行了八個小時 , 站在華盛頓中期 , 站在華盛頓 。
it's what they believed , and it wasn't about black versus white: 25 percent of the audience was white .	這是他們所相信的 , 重點不是黑人和白人:百分之二十五的觀眾是白人 。
dr . king believed that there are two types of laws in this world: those that are made by a higher authority and those that are made by man .	金恩博士相信在這個世界上有兩種法律:由較高權威所製成的 , 以及由人類所製造的那些法律 。
and not until all the laws that are made by man are consistent with the laws that are made by the higher authority will we live in a just world .	除非人類所制定的所有法律都與較高權威所制定的法律一致 , 不管我們生活在一個公平的世界裡 。
it just so happened that the civil rights movement was the perfect thing to help him bring his cause to life .	剛好發生了 , 民權運動是幫助他帶來生命的完美目標 。
we followed , not for him , but for ourselves .	我們追隨 , 不是為了他 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and , by the way , he gave the " i have a dream " speech , not the " i have a plan " speech .	順帶一提 , 他給了 「 我有一個夢想 」 演講 , 而不是 「 我有一個計畫 」 。
listen to politicians now , with their comprehensive 12point plans .	現在聽聽政治人物 , 他們全面的12點計劃 。
they're not inspiring anybody .	他們沒有啟發任何人 。
because there are leaders and there are those who lead .	因為有領導者 , 也有領導者 。
leaders hold a position of power or authority , but those who lead inspire us .	領導者掌握了權力或權威的位置 , 但那些領導者鼓舞了我們的人 。
whether they're individuals or organizations , we follow those who lead , not because we have to , but because we want to .	不論是個人或組織 , 我們會追隨那些領導者 , 不是因為我們需要 , 而是因為我們想要 。
we follow those who lead , not for them , but for ourselves .	我們遵循那些領導的人 , 不是為了他們 , 而是為了我們自己 。
and it's those who start with " why " that have the ability to inspire those around them or find others who inspire them .	那些從 「 為什麼 」 開始的人 , 能夠啟發他們周遭的人 , 或找到啟發他們的人 。
how do you remember where you parked your car ? how do you know if you're moving in the right direction ? neuroscientist neil burgess studies the neural mechanisms that map the space around us , and how they link to memory and imagination .	你怎麼記得你在哪裡停車 ? 你怎麼知道你在正確的方向上移動 ? 神經科學家尼爾堡堡 , 研究我們周圍的神經機制 , 以及它們如何連結記憶力和想像力 。
brain , cognitive science , exploration , neuroscience , science	大腦、認知科學、探索、神經科學、科學、科學、科學 。
neil burgess: how your brain tells you where you are	尼爾堡:你的大腦如何告訴你你現在的位置 。
when we park in a big parking lot , how do we remember where we parked our car ?	當我們在大停車場停車時 , 我們要如何記住我們停車的位置 ?
here's the problem facing homer .	這是荷馬所面臨的問題 。
and we're going to try to understand what's happening in his brain .	我們會試著去了解他腦中發生了什麼事 。
so we'll start with the hippocampus , shown in yellow , which is the organ of memory .	我們先從黃色的海馬體開始 , 也就是記憶的器官 。
if you have damage there , like in alzheimer's , you can't remember things including where you parked your car .	如果你有損害 , 比如阿茲海默症 , 你就無法記住事物 , 包括你停車的地方 。
it's named after latin for " seahorse , " which it resembles .	它是用拉丁文命名為 「 海馬 」 , 它是相似的 。
and like the rest of the brain , it's made of neurons .	和其他的大腦一樣 , 它是由神經元組成的 。
so the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it .	人類的大腦大約有一千億個神經元 。
and the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other .	神經元會彼此溝通 , 藉由發送電脈衝 , 或透過連結 , 彼此溝通 。
the hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells , which are very densely interconnected .	海馬體是由兩片細胞組成 , 非常密集的相互連結 。
and scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food .	科學家已經開始了解空間記憶如何運作 , 藉由記錄老鼠或老鼠的個別神經元 , 來記錄老鼠的記錄 , 或探索環境尋找食物 。
so we're going to imagine we're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here .	所以 , 我們要想像我們正在記錄老鼠的單一神經元 。
and when it fires a little spike of electricity , there's going to be a red dot and a click .	當它發電時 , 會有紅點和點擊 。
so what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment .	所以 , 我們看到這個神經元知道老鼠何時進入一個特定的環境中 。
and it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike .	它會藉由發送電脈衝訊號到大腦的其他部位 。
so we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal's location .	所以 , 我們可以把神經元的激發率當作動物所在位置的功能 。
and if we record from lots of different neurons , we'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment , like in this square box shown here .	如果我們從許多不同的神經元記錄下來 , 我們會看到不同的神經元發出訊號 , 當動物進入不同的環境時 , 比如這個正方形的盒子 。
so together they form a map for the rest of the brain , telling the brain continually , " where am i now within my environment ? "	所以他們一起組成大腦的地圖 , 不斷地告訴大腦: 「 我現在在哪裡 ? 」
place cells are also being recorded in humans .	位置細胞也被記錄在人類身上 。
so epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring .	癲癇患者有時會需要腦部監控的電訊活動 。
and some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town .	有些病人在玩電玩遊戲 , 他們在小鎮裡開車 。
and place cells in their hippocampi would fire , become active , start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town .	海馬體中的細胞會被激發 , 活躍地開始發送電脈衝 , 只要他們開車穿過特定的小鎮 。
so how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment ?	那麼 , 一個地方細胞怎麼知道老鼠或人的環境在哪裡 ?
well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important .	這兩個細胞告訴我們 , 環境的界線特別重要 。
so the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat's in .	最上方的這個 , 喜歡在老鼠的牆壁間打火 。
and when you expand the box , the firing location expands .	當你擴展盒子時 , 激發的位置就會擴展 。
the one below likes to fire whenever there's a wall close by to the south .	下面的一面就是火災 , 每當它靠近南邊的一面牆 。
and if you put another wall inside the box , then the cell fires in both place wherever there's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box .	如果你把另一面牆放進盒子裡 , 細胞就會被激發 , 不論在哪裡 , 都有牆在南方 , 動物都在盒子裡探索 。
so this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you extended buildings and so on is particularly important for the hippocampus .	這預測了在你周遭的建築物間的距離和方向的距離 , 等等對海馬體而言是特別重要的 。
and indeed , on the inputs to the hippocampus , cells are found which project into the hippocampus , which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it's exploring around .	的確 , 在海馬體的輸入值中 , 細胞會發現海馬體投射到海馬體中 , 它的確會完全反應出特定的距離和邊緣 , 特別是從老鼠或老鼠的方向來偵測 。
so the cell on the left , you can see , it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east , whether it's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table , which the animals are running around .	左邊的細胞 , 你可以看到 , 當動物靠近一面牆 , 或對東邊的邊緣 , 不管是方形的邊緣或圓形的牆壁 , 或是桌子的邊緣 , 那些動物跑來跑去 。
and the cell on the right there fires whenever there's a boundary to the south , whether it's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart .	右邊的細胞當南邊緣有限時會發出螢火 , 不論是桌邊的邊緣或牆壁 , 或甚至是兩張桌子之間的落差 。
so that's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it's exploring around .	所以 , 這就是我們認為位置細胞的一種方式 , 決定動物在何處探索 。
we can also test where we think objects are , like this goal flag , in simple environments or indeed , where your car would be .	我們也能測試我們認為物品的位置 , 像是這個目標旗 , 在簡單的環境中 , 或你的車子會在哪裡 。
so we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember .	所以 , 我們可以讓人們探索一個環境 , 看到他們必須記住的地點 。
and then , if we put them back in the environment , generally they're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was .	然後 , 如果我們把它們放回環境中 , 通常它們很擅長把標記放在他們認為旗子或車子的位置 。
but on some trials , we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell .	但在某些試驗中 , 我們能改變環境的形狀和大小 , 像我們在安定細胞一樣 。
in that case , we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment .	在這樣的情況下 , 我們可以看到他們認為旗幟在哪裡改變 , 作為改變環境的形狀和大小的功能 。
and what you see , for example , if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment , and then if you ask people where it was , but you've made the environment bigger , where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out .	舉例來說 , 如果你看到旗幟在一個小平方的環境中交叉 , 然後如果你問人們在哪裡 , 但你讓環境變大 , 他們認為旗幟已經延伸出去 , 和那個位置細胞爆發的方式完全一樣 。
it's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location , and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern .	這就好像你記住旗幟的位置 , 藉由儲存你所有的位置細胞的模式 , 然後你就可以回到那個位置 , 這樣你就可以配合你所在位置細胞的發射模式 。
that guides you back to the location that you want to remember .	這引導你回到你想要記住的地點 。
but we also know where we are through movement .	但我們也知道我們在移動的哪裡 。
so if we take some outbound path perhaps we park and we wander off we know because our own movements , which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back .	所以 , 如果我們採取一些不受限的路徑 , 或許我們停車 , 我們就會知道 , 因為我們自己的運動 , 我們可以整合這條路徑 , 大約是往前走的方向 。
and place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell .	位置細胞也能從一種稱為網狀細胞的細胞中獲得這種整合 。
now grid cells are found , again , on the inputs to the hippocampus , and they're a bit like place cells .	現在 , 網格細胞在海馬體的輸入中發現 , 它們有點像是位置細胞 。
but now as the rat explores around , each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid .	但當老鼠四處探索時 , 每個單獨的細胞會發出一系列不同的位置 , 在一個非常規則的三角形格子中 , 每個位置會發出一系列的能量 。
and if you record from several grid cells shown here in different colors each one has a gridlike firing pattern across the environment , and each cell's gridlike firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells .	如果你從幾個格子細胞中紀錄 , 顯示在不同的顏色中 , 每個細胞都有類似發射模式的格狀圖案 , 而每個細胞的發射圖案都和其他細胞有一點點相似 。
so the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one .	紅色的則在這個格子上開火 , 綠色的就是這個 , 藍色在這個上面 。
so together , it's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you'd find on a map , but using triangles .	所以 , 同心協力 , 就好像老鼠可以在它的環境中放置虛擬的電網 , 有點像是地圖上所發現的緯度和長度線 , 而是用三角形 。
and as it moves around , the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is , so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment .	當它移動時 , 電活動可以從其中一個細胞傳遞到下一個細胞 , 來追蹤它的位置 , 這樣它就可以利用它自己的動作 , 知道它在其環境的位置 。
do people have grid cells ?	有人有網格細胞嗎 ?
well because all of the gridlike firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry , the same orientations of grid , shown in orange here , it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between .	由於所有像格狀的發射模式都有相同的對稱性 , 相同的網格 , 在橘色中顯示 , 網格細胞在某個特定的區域 , 應該根據六個方向來運作 , 或在六個方向進行跑 。
so we can put people in an mri scanner and have them do a little video game like the one i showed you and look for this signal .	所以我們可以把人放進磁共振掃描儀 , 讓他們做個小遊戲 , 像我給你們看的一樣 , 尋找這個信號 。
and indeed , you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex , which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats .	的確 , 你在人腦皮質中看到的 , 也就是你在老鼠身上看到的網格細胞的同一部分 。
so back to homer .	回到荷馬 。
he's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked .	他可能還記得他車子的位置 , 距離和方向 , 以延伸建築和界線 , 延伸到他停車的地方 。
and that would be represented by the firing of boundarydetecting cells .	這會被邊界偵測細胞的激發所代表 。
he's also remembering the path he took out of the car park , which would be represented in the firing of grid cells .	他還記得他走出車站公園的路徑 , 可以用格子細胞來表示 。
now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire .	兩種細胞都能使位置細胞激發 。
and he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car .	他可以回溯到他停車的地方 , 這樣他就可以找到最符合他腦中的位置細胞的發射模式 , 目前他停車的地方 。
and that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car's actually there .	這引導他回到那個不尊重視覺暗示的位置 , 像他的車到底是不是真的 。
maybe it's been towed .	也許它被綁住了 。
but he knows where it was , so he knows to go and get it .	但他知道它在哪裡 , 所以他知道要去抓它 。
so beyond spatial memory , if we look for this gridlike firing pattern throughout the whole brain , we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks , like remembering the last time you went to a wedding , for example .	所以 , 除了空間記憶以外 , 如果我們觀察整個大腦發射的這個格狀圖案 , 我們會在一系列的地點上看到 , 當我們在做各種自傳記憶任務時 , 會很活躍 , 比如 , 記住你上次去婚禮時 。
so it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene , at least , of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them .	所以 , 代表我們周遭空間的神經機制也被用來產生視覺影像 , 如此一來 , 我們就可以重新創造出空間場景 , 至少在我們想要想像的時候 , 發生在我們身上的事件 。
so if this was happening , your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint .	所以如果發生了這一切 , 你的記憶可以從細胞開始活化 , 透過這些密集的連接 , 然後重新啟動邊界細胞 , 來創造你觀點周圍的空間結構 。
and grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space .	網格細胞可以透過這個空間移動這個視野 。
another kind of cell , head direction cells , which i didn't mention yet , they fire like a compass according to which way you're facing .	我還沒提到另一種細胞 , 頭部導向細胞 , 根據你面臨的方向 , 它們會發出一道激素 。
they could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery , so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding , for example .	他們可以定義你想要為你的視覺圖像產生的視覺方向 , 所以你可以想像當你在這個婚禮時發生了什麼事 。
so this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains .	這只是一個新時代的例子 , 在認知神經科學中 , 我們開始了解心理學的過程 , 例如你如何記住、想像 , 或甚至是以數十億個獨立的神經元為構成我們的大腦的行為來思考 。
thank you very much .	非常謝謝各位 。
imagine a global security driven by collaboration among agencies , government , the private sector and the public . that's not just the distant hope of opensource fans , it's the vision of james stavridis , the supreme commander of nato , who shares vivid moments from recent military history to explain why security of the future should be built with bridges rather than walls .	想像一下 , 全球安全是由機構、政府、私營機構所驅動的 , 和公眾所驅動的 。 這不僅僅是開放資源的粉絲的遠端希望 , 它是詹姆士史蒂夫里迪迪迪斯的最高指揮官 , 他分享了來自近期的軍事史 , 來解釋未來的安全性 , 而不是牆 。
collaboration , global issues , opensource , peace , politics , social media , violence , war	合作、全球議題、開源、和平、政治、社群媒體、暴力、戰爭、戰爭 。
james stavridis: how nato's supreme commander thinks about global security	詹姆士•斯特維里迪斯:nato的最高指揮官如何看待全球安全問題 。
i'm gonna talk a little bit about opensource security , because we've got to get better at security in this 21st century .	我打算談開放源的安全性 , 因為在21世紀 , 我們必須更加擅長安全 。
let me start by saying , let's look back to the 20th century , and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us .	讓我開始說 , 讓我們回顧二十世紀 , 了解這對我們來說是如何運作的 。
this is verdun , a battlefield in france just north of the nato headquarters in belgium .	這是verdun , 一位在法國北部的戰場 , 位在比利時總部 。
at verdun , in 1916 , over a 300day period , 700 , 000 people were killed , so about 2 , 000 a day .	1916年 , 在verdun , 超過三百天的時期 , 有七十萬人被殺 , 所以每天大約兩千人死亡 。
if you roll it forward 20thcentury security into the second world war , you see the battle of stalingrad , 300 days , 2 million people killed .	如果你向前推行20世紀的安全 , 進入第二次世界大戰 , 你會看到三百天的戰役 , 兩百萬人死亡 。
we go into the cold war , and we continue to try and build walls .	我們進入冷戰 , 我們繼續嘗試建造牆 。
we go from the trench warfare of the first world war to the maginot line of the second world war , and then we go into the cold war , the iron curtain , the berlin wall .	我們從第一場世界大戰的戰場 , 到第二次世界大戰的馬基線 , 然後我們進入冷戰、鐵幕、柏林牆 。
my thesis for us today is , instead of building walls to create security , we need to build bridges .	我今天的論點是 , 與其建造牆來創造安全 , 我們需要建造橋樑 。
this is a famous bridge in europe .	這是歐洲的一座有名橋 。
it's the bridge over the drina river , the subject of a novel by ivo andrić , and it talks about how , in that very troubled part of europe and the balkans , over time there's been enormous building of walls .	這座橋是draina河流的橋樑 , 由ivoandrics的小說主題 , 它談的是歐洲和巴爾幹半島的一部分 , 長久以來 , 圍牆都是巨大的 。
more recently , in the last decade , we begin to see these communities start , hesitatingly , to come together .	更近期 , 在過去十年 , 我們開始看到這些社區開始猶豫地 , 聚集在一起 。
i would argue , again , opensource security is about connecting the international , the interagency , the privatepublic , and lashing it together with strategic communication , largely in social networks .	我認為 , 同樣的 , 開放式安全是關於將國際、國際、私人之間的連結起來 , 並將它和策略性的溝通結合在一起 , 主要是在社交網路上 。
so let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that , because our global commons is under attack in a variety of ways , and none of the sources of threat to the global commons will be solved by building walls .	讓我來談談為什麼我們需要這麼做 , 因為我們的全球公有物以各種方式受到攻擊 , 而沒有任何威脅到全球公有物的來源 , 都不會由建造牆來解決 。
now , i'm a sailor , obviously .	很顯然 , 我是水手 。
this is a ship , a liner , clipping through the indian ocean .	這是一艘船 , 一條線 , 穿過印度洋 。
what's wrong with this picture ?	這張照片有什麼問題 ?
it's got concertina wire along the sides of it .	它的旁邊有certina電線 。
that's to prevent pirates from attacking it .	這是為了防止海盜攻擊它 。
piracy is a very active threat today around the world . this is in the indian ocean .	piracy今天是全世界非常積極的威脅 。 這是在印度洋 。
piracy is also very active in the strait of malacca .	piracy也非常活躍在馬拉卡的位置 。
it's active in the gulf of guinea .	它在幾內亞灣活躍 。
we see it in the caribbean .	我們在加勒比海看到它 。
it's a $10billionayear discontinuity in the global transport system .	它是全球運輸系統的一千億年不連續性 。
last year , at this time , there were 20 vessels , 500 mariners held hostage .	去年 , 當時有20艘船 , 500名遊客舉行 。
this is an attack on the global commons .	這是對全球公有物的攻擊 。
we need to think about how to address it .	我們需要考慮如何處理它 。
let's shift to a different kind of sea , the cyber sea .	咱們來轉移到另一種海洋 , 網路大海 。
here are photographs of two young men .	這裡有兩個年輕人的照片 。
at the moment , they're incarcerated .	目前 , 他們被監禁了 。
they conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars .	他們做了一個信用卡詐欺 , 將他們淨化超過一百億美金 。
this is part of cybercrime which is a $2trillionayear discontinuity in the global economy .	這是網路犯罪的一部分 , 它是全球經濟中2兆美金的損失 。
two trillion a year .	一年兩兆美元 。
that's just under the gdp of great britain .	這只是英國的國內生產總值 。
so this cyber sea , which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness , is very much under threat as well .	所以 , 我們所知的網路大海是極端開放的基本一部分 , 也受到威脅 。
another thing i worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking , by the movement of narcotics , opium , here coming out of afghanistan through europe over to the united states .	我擔心全球公有物的另一件事 , 就是人口販賣的威脅 , 是因為毒品、鴉片、阿富汗從阿富汗到美國 。
we worry about cocaine coming from the andean ridge north .	我們擔心從安第斯山脊到北部的古柯鹼 。
we worry about the movement of illegal weapons and trafficking . above all , perhaps , we worry about human trafficking , and the awful cost of it .	我們擔心非法武器和人口販賣運動 。 最重要的是 , 我們擔心人口販賣 , 以及它的花費 。
trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons .	人口販賣主要在海上移動 , 但在全球公有物的其他地方 。
this is a photograph , and i wish i could tell you that this is a very hightech piece of us navy gear that we're using to stop the trafficking .	這是一張照片 , 我希望我能告訴你們這是一張非常高科技的海軍裝備 , 我們用它來阻止人口販賣 。
the bad news is , this is a semisubmersible run by drug cartels .	壞消息是 , 這是販毒集團所經營的半潛水器 。
it was built in the jungles of south america .	它是在南美叢林建造的 。
we caught it with that lowtech raft — — and it was carrying six tons of cocaine .	我們用那低科技的升降機抓住了它 , 帶著六噸的古柯鹼 。
crew of four . sophisticated communications sweep .	船員四個 , 精密的溝通 。
this kind of trafficking , in narcotics , in humans , in weapons , god forbid , in weapons of mass destruction , is part of the threat to the global commons .	這種販賣 , 在毒癮中 , 在人類身上 , 在武器中 , 上帝禁止在大規模毀滅性的武器中 , 是全球公有物的威脅之一 。
and let's pull it together in afghanistan today .	讓我們在阿富汗總結一下 。
this is a field of poppies in afghanistan .	這是阿富汗的小馬田 。
eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppy , opium and heroin , comes out of afghanistan .	全世界百分之八十到九十的寶寶、鴉片和海洛因都來自阿富汗 。
we also see there , of course , terrorism .	當然 , 我們也看到了恐怖主義 。
this is where al qaeda is staged from .	這是基地組織的起源 。
we also see a very strong insurgency embedded there .	我們也看到一個非常強的緊急狀況 。
so this terrorism concern is also part of the global commons , and what we must address .	所以 , 這種恐怖主義的擔憂也是全球公有物的一部分 , 我們必須解決的 。
so here we are , 21st century .	所以 , 我們在這裡 , 21世紀 。
we know our 20thcentury tools are not going to work .	我們知道20世紀的工具無法運作 。
what should we do ?	我們該怎麼做 ?
i would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我認為我們不會只從槍的桶子裡提供安全 。
we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun .	我們不會只從槍的桶子裡提供安全 。
we will need the application of military force .	我們需要軍事力量的應用 。
when we do it , we must do it well , and competently .	當我們這麼做時 , 我們必須做得很好 , 並且更有力 。
but my thesis is , opensource security is about international , interagency , privatepublic connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the internet .	但我的論點是 , 開放式安全是關於國際、國際、私人公開的聯繫 , 由網路上策略通訊的概念所組成 。
let me give you a couple of examples of how this works in a positive way .	讓我舉幾個例子說明這如何以正面的方式運作 。
this is afghanistan . these are afghan soldiers .	這是阿富汗 。 這些是阿富汗的士兵 。
they are all holding books .	他們都拿著書 。
you should say , " that's odd . i thought i read that this demographic , young men and women in their 20s and 30s , is largely illiterate in afghanistan . "	你應該說: 「 這很奇怪 。 我想我讀到這個人口統計 , 二十三十幾歲的年輕男女 , 大部分都是在阿富汗的文盲 。 」
you would be correct .	你是對的 。
eightyfive percent cannot read when they enter the security forces of afghanistan .	85%的人無法讀取阿富汗的安全力量 。
why ? because the taliban withheld education during the period of time in which these men and women would have learned to read .	為什麼 ? 因為塔利班在這些男人和女人都學會閱讀 。
so the question is , so , why are they all standing there holding books ?	所以問題是 , 為什麼他們都站在那裡拿著書 ?
the answer is , we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by nato in partnership with private sector entities , in partnership with development agencies .	答案是 , 我們教導他們閱讀讀讀文學課程 , 透過納托和私營機構合作 , 與發展機構合作 。
we've taught well over 200 , 000 afghan security forces to read and write at a basic level .	我們已經教導超過二十萬阿富汗的安全力量 , 以基本的角度閱讀和寫 。
when you can read and write in afghanistan , you will typically put a pen in your pocket .	當你在阿富汗讀和寫字時 , 你通常會把一支筆放在口袋裡 。
at the ceremonies , when these young men and women graduate , they take that pen with great pride , and put it in their pocket .	在儀式中 , 當這些年輕人和女生畢業時 , 他們很驕傲地拿著這筆筆筆 , 把它放在口袋裡 。
this is bringing together international — there are 50 nations involved in this mission — interagency — these development agencies — and privatepublic , to take on this kind of security .	這使得國際間有50個國家涉及這項任務 , 這些發展機構 , 以及私人公開 , 來採取這種安全 。
now , we are also teaching them combat skills , of course , but i would argue , opensource security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect .	當然 , 我們也在教導他們對抗技能 , 但我認為 , 開放式安全意味著連結 , 創造更長的安全效應 。
this is a us navy warship .	這是美國海軍戰艦 。
it's called the comfort .	它叫做舒適 。
there's a sister ship called the mercy .	有個姐妹船叫做 「 慈悲 」 。
they are hospital ships .	他們是醫院的船 。
this one , the comfort , operates throughout the caribbean and the coast of south america conducting patient treatments .	這個 , 舒適的 , 在加勒比海和南美洲的海岸進行病人治療 。
on a typical cruise , they'll do 400 , 000 patient treatments .	通常他們會做四十萬個病人治療 。
it is crewed not strictly by military but by a combination of humanitarian organizations: operation hope , project smile .	軍隊不是嚴格的 , 而是人道主義組織的結合: 「 希望 」 , 計畫微笑 。
other organizations send volunteers .	其他組織發送志願者 。
interagency physicians come out .	國際醫師來了 。
they're all part of this .	全部都是這樣 。
to give you one example of the impact this can have , this little boy , eight years old , walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the comfort .	舉個例子 , 這個小男孩 , 8歲 , 帶著他的母親走進舒適圈的眼科診所 。
when he was fitted , over his extremely myopic eyes , he suddenly looked up and said , " mama , veo el mundo . "	當他被配合時 , 他的眼睛突然抬起頭 , 說: 「 老媽 , veoelmundo 。 」
" mom , i see the world . "	「 媽 , 我看見這個世界 。 」
multiply this by 400 , 000 patient treatments , this privatepublic collaboration with security forces , and you begin to see the power of creating security in a very different way .	將這方法乘以四十萬名病人治療 , 這種私人和安全合作的私人合作 , 你開始以截然不同的角度來看創造安全的力量 。
here you see baseball players .	這是棒球選手 。
can you pick out the two us army soldiers in this photograph ?	你能否從這張照片中挑出兩位美國軍人士 ?
they are the two young men on either side of these young boys . this is part of a series of baseball clinics , where we have explored collaboration between major league baseball , the department of state , who sets up the diplomatic piece of this , military baseball players , who are real soldiers with real skills but participate in this mission , and they put on clinics throughout latin america and the caribbean , in honduras , in nicaragua , in all of the central american and caribbean nations where baseball is so popular , and it creates security .	他們是這些男孩兩邊的兩個年輕人 。 這是一系列棒球診所的一員 , 我們在加勒比大聯盟 , 國家的部門 , 他們設立了外交棒球隊 , 和真正的技能合作 , 他們在加勒比美洲和加勒比海的診所中 , 穿過拉丁美洲和加勒比海岸 , 開了全美各國的巴拉美洲 , 並且在加勒比美洲 , 創造了貧民區 。
it shows role models to young men and women about fitness and about life that i would argue help create security for us .	它展現了年輕男性和女性的角色 , 關於健身和生活的重要性 , 讓我主張 , 協助為我們創造安全 。
another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief .	這種合作關係的另一個面向是災難救援 。
this is a us air force helicopter participating after the tsunami in 2004 which killed 250 , 000 people .	這是美國空軍直升機在2004年通過海嘯殺死了25萬人
in each of these major disasters — the tsunami in 2004 , 250 , 000 dead , the kashmiri earthquake in pakistan , 2005 , 85 , 000 dead , the haitian earthquake , about 300 , 000 dead , more recently the awful earthquaketsunami combination which struck japan and its nuclear industry — in all of these instances , we see partnerships between international actors , interagency , privatepublic working with security forces to respond to this kind of natural disaster .	在每一次重大災難中海嘯在2004年 , 死亡250 , 000人 , 巴基斯坦的kamiri地震 , 2005年 , 8萬5千人死亡 , 海地地震近30萬人 , 更近期 , 震撼日本和核子產業 , 在所有這些例子中 , 我們都看到國際行業、國際行業、國際行業、國際行業、國際間的合作夥伴關係 , 和這種自然災害的合作關係 。
so these are examples of this idea of opensource security .	這些是開放式安全的例子 。
we tie it together , increasingly , by doing things like this .	我們逐漸把它們綁在一起 , 透過這樣的做法 , 把它們綁在一起 。
now , you're looking at this thinking , " ah , admiral , these must be sea lanes of communication , or these might be fiber optic cables . "	現在你看到的是這個想法: 「 啊 , 阿 , 阿 , 這些必須是溝通的海道 , 或者這些可能是光纖電纜 。 」
no . this is a graphic of the world according to twitter .	不 , 這是根據推特的圖表 。
purple are tweets . green are geolocation .	紫色是推特綠色是地理分配
white is the synthesis .	白色是合成 。
it's a perfect evocation of that great population survey , the six largest nations in the world in descending order: china , india , facebook , the united states , twitter and indonesia .	這是一項很棒的民眾調查 , 全世界的六個國家 , 以下降順序:中國、印度、印度、facebook、美國、推特和印尼 。
why do we want to get in these nets ?	為什麼我們要去這些蚊帳呢 ?
why do we want to be involved ?	為什麼我們想要參與 ?
we talked earlier about the arab spring , and the power of all this .	我們先前談到阿拉伯之春 , 以及這一切的力量 。
i'll give you another example , and it's how you move this message .	我會再舉另一個例子 , 就是你如何移動這個訊息 。
i gave a talk like this in london a while back about this point . i said , as i say to all of you , i'm on facebook . friend me .	我在倫敦做過這樣的演講 。 我說 , 就如同我對你們說的 , 我在facebook , 朋友我 。
got a little laugh from the audience .	聽到觀眾的笑聲 。
there was an article which was run by ap , on the wire .	有一篇文章是阿普在電線上運行的 。
got picked up in two places in the world: finland and indonesia .	被帶到世界上兩個地方:芬蘭和印尼 。
the headline was: nato admiral needs friends .	標題是:納托需要朋友 。
and the story was a catalyst , and the next morning i had hundreds of facebook friend requests from indonesians and finns , mostly saying , " admiral , we heard you need a friend , and oh , by the way , what is nato ? "	故事是催化劑 , 第二天早上 , 我有數百名臉書朋友請求來自印尼人和芬蘭人 , 大多都說: 「 邁進份子 , 我們聽說你需要朋友 , 喔 , 順便說一下 , nato是什麼 ? 」
yeah , we laugh , but this is how we move the message , and moving that message is how we connect international , interagency , privatepublic , and these social nets to help create security .	沒錯 , 我們笑了 , 但這就是我們傳遞訊息的方式 , 傳遞訊息就是我們如何連結國際、國際、私人公開 , 而這些社交網路協助創造安全 。
now , let me hit a somber note .	現在 , 讓我明白一件事 。
this is a photograph of a brave british soldier .	這是一個勇敢的英國士兵的照片 。
he's in the scots guards .	他在蘇格蘭警衛隊 。
he's standing the watch in helmand , in southern afghanistan .	他站在阿富汗南方的helmand 。
i put him here to remind us , i would not want anyone to leave the room thinking that we do not need capable , competent militaries who can create real military effect .	我把他放在這裡提醒我們 , 我不會讓任何人離開房間 , 認為我們不需要有能力、有能力的軍隊 , 可以創造真正的軍事效應 。
that is the core of who we are and what we do , and we do it to protect freedom , freedom of speech , all the things we treasure in our societies .	這就是我們所做的事的核心 , 我們要保護自由、言論自由 , 我們在我們的社會中珍視的一切 。
but , you know , life is not an onandoff switch .	但 , 你知道 , 生命不是開關 。
you don't have to have a military that is either in hard combat or is in the barracks .	你不需要有軍隊 , 不管是戰鬥 , 或在戰場上 。
i would argue life is a rheostat .	我會說生命是圓形的 。
you have to dial it in , and as i think about how we create security in this 21st century , there will be times when we will apply hard power in true war and crisis , but there will be many instances , as we've talked about today , where our militaries can be part of creating 21stcentury security , international , interagency , privatepublic , connected with competent communication .	你必須將它導入 , 如同我所想的 , 我們在21世紀創造安全 , 將會有時 , 我們會用真實戰爭和危機來應用真正的力量 , 但 , 如同我們今天所談的 , 我們的軍隊可以成為創造21世紀安全的一部分 , 國際、國際間、私人、私人公開 , 與能力的溝通連結 。
i would close by saying that we heard earlier today about wikipedia . i use wikipedia all the time to look up facts , and as all of you appreciate , wikipedia is not created by 12 brilliant people locked in a room writing articles .	最後 , 我會說 , 我們今天聽說我們有關維基百科的知識 。 我常常常會用維基百科搜尋事實 , 就像你們所欣賞的一樣 , 維基百科並不是由12個出色的人 , 關在房間寫文章中 。
wikipedia , every day , is tens of thousands of people inputting information , and every day millions of people withdrawing that information .	維基百科 , 每天有數萬人在輸入資訊 , 每天有數百萬人在編寫這些資訊 。
it's a perfect image for the fundamental point that no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	對基本的意義來說 , 沒有人和所有人一起思考都一樣聰明 。
no one person , no one alliance , no one nation , no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together .	沒有一個人 , 沒有一個聯盟 , 沒有一個國家 , 沒有一個像我們所有人一起思考一樣聰明 。
the vision statement of wikipedia is very simple: a world in which every human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge .	維基百科的宣言很簡單:一個每個人都能自由地分享所有知識的世界 。
my thesis for you is that by combining international , interagency , privatepublic , strategic communication , together , in this 21st century , we can create the sum of all security .	我的論點是 , 把國際、跨國、私人、私人、策略性的溝通結合在一起 , 在21世紀 , 我們就能創造出所有安全的總結 。
thank you very much . thank you . thank you .	非常謝謝各位 。 謝謝 。
